<text>
said the questioner, whom we shall call Thomas Anderson,
although he was known among his acquaintances as Marster Anderson's Tom.

His informant regarding the condition of the market was Robert Johnson,
who had been separated from his mother in his childhood and reared by
his mistress as a favorite slave. She had fondled him as a pet animal,
and even taught him to read. Notwithstanding their relation as mistress
and slave, they had strong personal likings for each other.

Tom Anderson was the servant of a wealthy planter, who lived in the city
of C ----, North Carolina. This planter was quite advanced in life, but
in his earlier days he had spent much of his time in talking politics in
his State and National capitals in winter, and in visiting pleasure
resorts and watering places in summer. His plantations were left to the
care of overseers who, in their turn, employed negro drivers to aid them
in the work of cultivation and discipline. But as the infirmities of age
were pressing upon him he had withdrawn from active life, and given the
management of his affairs into the hands of his sons. As Robert Johnson
and Thomas Anderson passed homeward from the market, having bought
provisions for their respective homes, they seemed to be very
light-hearted and careless, chatting and joking with each other; but
every now and then, after looking furtively around, one would drop into
the ears of the other some news of the battle then raging between the
North and South which, like two great millstones, were grinding slavery
to powder.

As they passed along, they were met by another servant, who said in
hurried tones, but with a glad accent in his voice
said Robert, as a broad smile overspread his face
said another servant on his way to market
said Tom Anderson
and with a bright smile lighting up his face he
passed on with a quickened tread.

There seemed to be an unusual interest manifested by these men in the
state of the produce market, and a unanimous report of its good
condition. Surely there was nothing in the primeness of the butter or
the freshness of the eggs to change careless looking faces into such
expressions of gratification, or to light dull eyes with such gladness.
What did it mean?

During the dark days of the Rebellion, when the bondman was turning his
eyes to the American flag, and learning to hail it as an ensign of
deliverance, some of the shrewder slaves, coming in contact with their
masters and overhearing their conversations, invented a phraseology to
convey in the most unsuspected manner news to each other from the
battle-field. Fragile women and helpless children were left on the
plantations while their natural protectors were at the front, and yet
these bondmen refrained from violence. Freedom was coming in the wake of
the Union army, and while numbers deserted to join their forces, others
remained at home, slept in their cabins by night and attended to their
work by day; but under this apparently careless exterior there was an
undercurrent of thought which escaped the cognizance of their masters.
In conveying tidings of the war, if they wished to announce a victory of
the Union army, they said the butter was fresh, or that the fish and
eggs were in good condition. If defeat befell them, then the butter and
other produce were rancid or stale.

Entering his home, Robert set his basket down. In one arm he held a
bundle of papers which he had obtained from the train to sell to the
boarders, who were all anxious to hear from the seat of battle. He
slipped one copy out and, looking cautiously around, said to Linda, the
cook, in a low voice
said Linda
said Robert
Just then the bell rang, and Robert, answering, found Mrs. Johnson
suffering from a severe headache, which he thought was occasioned by her
worrying over the late defeat of the Confederates. She sent him on an
errand, which he executed with his usual dispatch, and returned to some
work which he had to do in the kitchen. Robert was quite a favorite with
Aunt Linda, and they often had confidential chats together
she said, when he returned
Although the slaves were denied unrestricted travel, and the holding of
meetings without the surveillance of a white man, yet they contrived to
meet by stealth and hold gatherings where they could mingle their
prayers and tears, and lay plans for escaping to the Union army.
Outwitting the vigilance of the patrollers and home guards, they
established these meetings miles apart, extending into several States.

Sometimes their hope of deliverance was cruelly blighted by hearing of
some adventurous soul who, having escaped to the Union army, had been
pursued and returned again to bondage. Yet hope survived all these
disasters which gathered around the fate of their unfortunate brethren,
who were remanded to slavery through the undiscerning folly of those who
were strengthening the hands which were dealing their deadliest blows at
the heart of the Nation. But slavery had cast such a glamour over the
Nation, and so warped the consciences of men, that they failed to read
aright the legible transcript of Divine retribution which was written
upon the shuddering earth, where the blood of God's poor children had
been as water freely spilled
A few evenings after this conversation between Robert and Linda, a
prayer-meeting was held. Under the cover of night a few dusky figures
met by stealth in McCullough's woods
said Robert, approaching Uncle Daniel, the leader of the
prayer-meeting, who had preceded him but a few minutes
said Robert, smiling, and grasping Uncle Daniel's
hand
exclaimed several, as they turned their faces eagerly
towards Robert
said Robert
said a half dozen earnest voices
Tom Anderson hesitated a moment, and then said
said Tom
said Robert, who enjoyed the distinction of being a
good reader, and was pretty well posted about the war. Mrs. Johnson had
taught him to read on the same principle she would have taught a pet
animal amusing tricks. She had never imagined the time would come when
he would use the machinery she had put in his hands to help overthrow
the institution to which she was so ardently attached
said Robert, a little vain of his superior knowledge
said Uncle Daniel, a dear old father, with a look of
saintly patience on his face
said Tom Anderson
asked Robert Johnson
asked Robert, who was always on the lookout for
news from the battle-field
chorused a half dozen voices
said Tom
said Robert
said Uncle Daniel
said Tom Anderson
said another
said Tom
Anderson
said Robert, turning to Uncle Daniel
said Robert
said Tom Anderson
said Tom, a little impatiently
said Robert
said Robert
said Robert,
laughing carelessly
said Tom Anderson
said Aunt Linda
said Robert
said Aunt Linda
said Tom Anderson
asked Robert
continued Anderson
said Uncle Daniel
said Robert
said Tom Anderson
The Union had snapped asunder because it lacked the cohesion of justice,
and the Nation was destined to pass through the crucible of disaster and
defeat, till she was ready to clasp hands with the negro and march
abreast with him to freedom and victory.

The Union army was encamping a few miles from C ----, in North Carolina.
Robert, being well posted on the condition of affairs, had stealthily
contrived to call a meeting in Uncle Daniel's cabin. Uncle Daniel's wife
had gone to bed as a sick sister, and they held a prayer-meeting by her
bedside. It was a little risky, but as Mr. Thurston did not encourage
the visits of the patrollers, and heartily detested having them prying
into his cabins, there was not much danger of molestation
said Robert, after he had been seated
a few minutes in Uncle Daniel's cabin
said Tom
said Tom
said Tom
he exclaimed, looking fondly at his wife, who still bore
traces of great beauty
said Aunt Katie, half chidingly
said Aunt Katie
said Robert
said Robert, now that
Daniel had finished his story
Aunt Katie turned her face towards the speaker. It was a thoughtful,
intelligent face, saintly and calm. A face which expressed the idea of a
soul which had been fearfully tempest tossed, but had passed through
suffering into peace. Very touching was the look of resignation and hope
which overspread her features as she replied, with the simple child-like
faith which she had learned in the darkest hour
And with her that thought, as coming from the lips of Divine
Love, was enough to settle the whole question of forgiveness of injuries
and love to enemies
said Thomas Anderson, turning to Uncle Daniel
said Uncle Daniel, and there was grief in his voice
said the youngest of the company.

Uncle Daniel slowly arose. There was a mournful flash in his eye, a
tremor of emotion in his voice, as he said
exclaimed a chorus of voices
said Uncle Daniel, with an air of mournful dignity
said Robert, addressing a stalwart man whose towering
form and darkly flashing eye told that slavery had failed to put the
crouch in his shoulders or general abjectness into his demeanor
spoke up Tom Anderson
As Ben Tunnel looked at the speaker, a spasm of agony and anger darkened
his face and distorted his features, as if the blood of some strong
race were stirring with sudden vigor through his veins. He clutched his
hands together, as if he were struggling with an invisible foe, and for
a moment he remained silent. Then suddenly raising his head, he
exclaimed
said Tom
he replied, in a low, firm voice
It was touching to see the sorrow on the strong face, to detect the
pathos and indignation in his voice, as he said
said Robert
A few evenings after this interview, the Union soldiers entered the town
of C ----, and established their headquarters near the home of Thomas
Anderson.

Out of the little company, almost every one deserted to the Union army,
leaving Uncle Daniel faithful to his trust, and Ben Tunnel hushing his
heart's deep aspirations for freedom in a passionate devotion to his
timid and affectionate mother
A few evenings before the stampede of Robert and his friends to the
army, and as he sat alone in his room reading the latest news from the
paper he had secreted, he heard a cautious tread and a low tap at his
window. He opened the door quietly and whispered
said Robert
Robert Johnson's heart gave a great bound. Was that so? Had that army,
with freedom emblazoned on its banners, come at last to offer them
deliverance if they would accept it? Was it a bright, beautiful dream,
or a blessed reality soon to be grasped by his willing hands? His heart
grew buoyant with hope; the lightness of his heart gave elasticity to
his step and sent the blood rejoicingly through his veins. Freedom was
almost in his grasp, and the future was growing rose-tinted and
rainbow-hued. All the ties which bound him to his home were as ropes of
sand, now that freedom had come so near.

When the army was afar off, he had appeared to be light-hearted and
content with his lot. If asked if he desired his freedom, he would have
answered, very naively, that he was eating his white bread and believed
in letting well enough alone; he had no intention of jumping from the
frying-pan into the fire. But in the depths of his soul the love of
freedom was an all-absorbing passion; only danger had taught him
caution. He had heard of terrible vengeance being heaped upon the heads
of some who had sought their freedom and failed in the attempt. Robert
knew that he might abandon hope if he incurred the wrath of men whose
overthrow was only a question of time. It would have been madness and
folly for him to have attempted an insurrection against slavery, with
the words of McClellan ringing in his ears
and with the home guards ready to quench his
aspirations for freedom with bayonets and blood. What could a set of
unarmed and undisciplined men do against the fearful odds which beset
their path?

Robert waited eagerly and hopefully his chance to join the Union army;
and was ready and willing to do anything required of him by which he
could earn his freedom and prove his manhood. He conducted his plans
with the greatest secrecy. A few faithful and trusted friends stood
ready to desert with him when the Union army came within hailing
distance. When it came, there was a stampede to its ranks of men ready
to serve in any capacity, to labor in the tents, fight on the fields, or
act as scouts. It was a strange sight to see these black men rallying
around the Stars and Stripes, when white men were trampling them under
foot and riddling them with bullets
said Robert to his trusted friends, as they gathered
together at a meeting in Gundover's woods, almost under the shadow of
the Union army
continued Robert
said Tom
looking down at his seedy clothes, with a laugh
said Robert
said one of the company
said Tom
said Robert
An angry curse rose to the lips of Robert, but he repressed it and
muttered to himself
Then turning to Tom, said
said Tom.

Tom was very anxious to get word to the beautiful but intractable girl
who was held in durance vile by her reckless and selfish master, who had
tried in vain to drag her down to his own low level of sin and shame.
But all Tom's efforts were in vain. Finally he applied to the Commander
of the post, who immediately gave orders for her release. The next day
Tom had the satisfaction of knowing that Iola Leroy had been taken as a
trembling dove from the gory vulture's nest and given a place of
security. She was taken immediately to the General's headquarters. The
General was much impressed by her modest demeanor, and surprised to see
the refinement and beauty she possessed. Could it be possible that this
young and beautiful girl had been a chattel, with no power to protect
herself from the highest insults that lawless brutality could inflict
upon innocent and defenseless womanhood? Could he ever again glory in
his American citizenship, when any white man, no matter how coarse,
cruel, or brutal, could buy or sell her for the basest purposes? Was it
not true that the cause of a hapless people had become entangled with
the lightnings of heaven, and dragged down retribution upon the land?

The field hospital was needing gentle, womanly ministrations, and Iola
Leroy, released from the hands of her tormentors, was given a place as
nurse; a position to which she adapted herself with a deep sense of
relief. Tom was doubly gratified at the success of his endeavors, which
had resulted in the rescue of the beautiful young girl and the
discomfiture of his young master who, in the words of Tom
a rather difficult physical feat).

Iola, freed from her master's clutches, applied herself readily to her
appointed tasks. The beautiful, girlish face was full of tender
earnestness. The fresh, young voice was strangely sympathetic, as if
some great sorrow had bound her heart in loving compassion to every
sufferer who needed her gentle ministrations.

Tom Anderson was a man of herculean strength and remarkable courage.
But, on account of physical defects, instead of enlisting as a soldier,
he was forced to remain a servant, although he felt as if every nerve in
his right arm was tingling to strike a blow for freedom. He was well
versed in the lay of the country, having often driven his master's
cotton to market when he was a field hand. After he became a coachman,
he had become acquainted with the different roads and localities of the
country. Besides, he had often accompanied his young masters on their
hunting and fishing expeditions. Although he could not fight in the
army, he proved an invaluable helper. When tents were to be pitched,
none were more ready to help than he. When burdens were to be borne,
none were more willing to bend beneath them than Thomas Anderson. When
the battle-field was to be searched for the wounded and dying, no hand
was more tender in its ministrations of kindness than his. As a general
factotum in the army, he was ever ready and willing to serve anywhere
and at any time, and to gather information from every possible source
which could be of any service to the Union army. As a Pagan might
worship a distant star and wish to call it his own, so he loved Iola.
And he never thought he could do too much for the soldiers who had
rescued her and were bringing deliverance to his race
Robert asked him one day, as they were
talking together
said Robert
said Robert
Robert Johnson, being able to meet the army requirements, was enlisted
as a substitute to help fill out the quota of a Northern regiment. With
his intelligence, courage, and prompt obedience, he rose from the ranks
and became lieutenant of a colored company. He was daring, without being
rash; prompt, but not thoughtless; firm, without being harsh. Kind and
devoted to the company he drilled, he soon won the respect of his
superior officers and the love of his comrades
said a young officer, Captain Sybil, of Maine, who had become
attached to Robert
said Robert
said Captain Sybil, as if speaking to himself
continued Robert
said Captain Sybil
said Robert, rising
said
Captain Sybil
asked Captain Sybil
replied Robert
responded Sybil
answered Robert
said Robert
continued Robert
said Robert, with a tone of bitterness in his voice
exclaimed Captain Sybil, sympathetically
asked
Robert
Just as Captain Sybil and Robert were wondering at the delay of Tom and
the soldiers they heard the measured tread of men who were slowly
bearing a burden. They were carrying Tom Anderson to the hospital,
fearfully wounded, and nigh to death. His face was distorted, and the
blood was streaming from his wounds. His respiration was faint, his
pulse hurried, as if life were trembling on its frailest cords.

Robert and Captain Sybil hastened at once towards the wounded man. On
Robert's face was a look of intense anguish, as he bent pityingly over
his friend
cried Robert.

Captain Sybil, pressing anxiously forward, repeated Robert's question
said one of the young soldiers, advancing and saluting his
superior officer
cried Robert, in tones of
agony.

A gleam of grateful recognition passed over the drawn features of Tom,
as the wail of his friend fell on his ear. He attempted to speak, but
the words died upon his lips, and he became unconscious
said Captain Sybil
Robert followed his friend into the hospital, tenderly and carefully
helped to lay him down, and remained awhile, gazing in silent grief upon
the sufferer. Then he turned to go, leaving him in the hands of Iola,
but hoping against hope that his wounds would not be fatal.

With tender devotion Iola watched her faithful friend. He recognized her
when restored to consciousness, and her presence was as balm to his
wounds. He smiled faintly, took her hand in his, stroked it tenderly,
looked wistfully into her face, and said
said Iola
said Iola, tenderly
answered Iola
Tom closed his eyes and lay quiet. Tenderly and anxiously Iola watched
over him as the hours waned away. The doctor came, shook his head
gravely, and, turning to Iola, said
As Iola gazed upon the kind but homely features of Tom, she saw his eyes
open and an unexpressed desire upon his face.

Tenderly and sadly bending over him, with tears in her dark, luminous
eyes, she said
said Tom, with laboring breath
Iola laid her hand gently in the rough palm of the dying man, and, with
a tremulous voice, sang the parting hymns.

Tenderly she wiped the death damps from his dusky brow, and imprinted
upon it a farewell kiss. Gratitude and affection lit up the dying eye,
which seemed to be gazing into the eternities. Just then Robert entered
the room, and, seating himself quietly by Tom's bedside, read the death
signs in his face
said Tom
Suddenly a look
of recognition and rapture lit up his face, and he murmured
Slowly his hand released its pressure, a peaceful calm overspread his
countenance, and without a sigh or murmur Thomas Anderson, Iola's
faithful and devoted friend, passed away, leaving the world so much
poorer for her than it was before. Just then Dr  Gresham, the hospital
physician, came to the bedside, felt for the pulse which would never
throb again, and sat down in silence by the cot
said Iola
said the doctor
Iola bowed her head in silent sorrow, and then relieved the anguish of
her heart by a flood of tears. Robert rose, and sorrowfully left the
room.

Iola, with tearful eyes and aching heart, clasped the cold hands over
the still breast, closed the waxen lid over the eye which had once
beamed with kindness or flashed with courage, and then went back, after
the burial, to her daily round of duties, feeling the sad missing of
something from her life
said Dr Gresham to Col. Robinson, the commander of the post
asked Col. Robinson
responded Dr Gresham
A faint flush rose to the cheek of Dr Gresham as he smiled, and said
said Col. Robinson
asked Col. Robinson
responded the doctor
answered Col. Robinson
queried the doctor
said the doctor
said Dr Gresham, starting to his feet
continued the Colonel
said Dr Gresham, thoughtfully stroking his
beard
asked Col. Robinson
replied the
doctor
said Dr Gresham, absently.

Dr Gresham was a member of a wealthy and aristocratic family, proud of
its lineage, which it could trace through generations of good blood to
its ancestral isle. He had become deeply interested in Iola before he
had heard her story, but after it had been revealed to him he tried to
banish her from his mind; but his constant observation of her only
increased his interest and admiration. The deep pathos of her story, the
tenderness of her ministrations, bestowed alike on black and white, and
the sad loneliness of her condition, awakened within him a desire to
defend and protect her all through her future life. The fierce clashing
of war had not taken all the romance out of his nature. In Iola he saw
realized his ideal of the woman whom he was willing to marry. A woman,
tender, strong, and courageous, and rescued only by the strong arm of
his Government from a fate worse than death. She was young in years, but
old in sorrow; one whom a sad destiny had changed from a light-hearted
girl to a heroic woman. As he observed her, he detected an undertone of
sorrow in her most cheerful words, and observed a quick flushing and
sudden paling of her cheek, as if she were living over scenes that were
thrilling her soul with indignation or chilling her heart with horror.
As nurse and physician, Iola and Dr Gresham were constantly thrown
together. His friends sent him magazines and books, which he gladly
shared with her. The hospital was a sad place. Mangled forms, stricken
down in the flush of their prime and energy; pale young corpses,
sacrificed on the altar of slavery, constantly drained on her
sympathies. Dr Gresham was glad to have some reading matter which might
divert her mind from the memories of her mournful past, and also furnish
them both with interesting themes of conversation in their moments of
relaxation from the harrowing scenes through which they were constantly
passing. Without any effort or consciousness on her part, his friendship
ripened into love. To him her presence was a pleasure, her absence a
privation; and her loneliness drew deeply upon his sympathy. He would
have merited his own self-contempt if, by word or deed, he had done
anything to take advantage of her situation. All the manhood and
chivalry of his nature rose in her behalf, and, after carefully
revolving the matter, he resolved to win her for his bride, bury her
secret in his Northern home, and hide from his aristocratic relations
all knowledge of her mournful past. One day he said to Iola
she said, smiling
he replied
replied Iola
There was something so sad, almost despairing in her tones, in the
drooping of her head, and the quivering of her lip, that they stirred
Dr Gresham's heart with sudden pity, and, drawing nearer to her, he
said
Nearly twenty years before the war, two young men, of French and Spanish
descent, sat conversing on a large verandah which surrounded an ancient
home on the Mississippi River. It was French in its style of
architecture, large and rambling, with no hint of modern improvements.

The owner of the house was the only heir of a Creole planter. He had
come into possession of an inheritance consisting of vast baronial
estates, bank stock, and a large number of slaves. Eugene Leroy, being
deprived of his parents, was left, at an early age, to the care of a
distant relative, who had sent him to school and college, and who
occasionally invited him to spend his vacations at his home. But Eugene
generally declined his invitations, as he preferred spending his
vacations at the watering places in the North, with their fashionable
and not always innocent gayeties. Young, vivacious, impulsive, and
undisciplined, without the restraining influence of a mother's love or
the guidance of a father's hand, Leroy found himself, when his college
days were over, in the dangerous position of a young man with vast
possessions, abundant leisure, unsettled principles, and uncontrolled
desires. He had no other object than to extract from life its most
seductive draughts of ease and pleasure. His companion, who sat opposite
him on the verandah, quietly smoking a cigar, was a remote cousin, a
few years older than himself, the warmth of whose Southern temperament
had been modified by an infusion of Northern blood.

Eugene was careless, liberal, and impatient of details, while his
companion and cousin, Alfred Lorraine, was selfish, eager, keen, and
alert; also hard, cold, methodical, and ever ready to grasp the main
chance. Yet, notwithstanding the difference between them, they had
formed a warm friendship for each other
said Eugene
Lorraine opened his eyes with sudden wonder, and exclaimed
said Eugene
responded Lorraine
said Lorraine
replied Eugene
said Lorraine
said Eugene
responded Eugene
said Lorraine
exclaimed Lorraine, starting to his feet, and
looking incredulously on the face of Leroy
answered Eugene Leroy
exclaimed Lorraine
replied Lorraine
asked Eugene
continued Eugene
said Lorraine
said Eugene, sadly
Eugene laid aside his cigar, looked thoughtfully at Lorraine, and said
said Eugene
said Lorraine, with a sneer
said Eugene, rising and rapidly pacing the floor
said Lorraine, somewhat irritably
continued Eugene
exclaimed Lorraine
said Lorraine, thoroughly disgusted
replied Lorraine, hotly,
while an expression of ineffable scorn passed over his cold, proud face
On the next morning after this conversation Leroy left for the North, to
attend the commencement and witness the graduation of his ward. Arriving
in Ohio, he immediately repaired to the academy and inquired for the
principal. He was shown into the reception-room, and in a few moments
the principal entered
said Leroy, rising and advancing towards him
said Leroy, handing the
principal a card. The principal took the card and immediately left the
room.

Very soon Leroy heard a light step, and looking up he saw a radiantly
beautiful woman approaching him
he said, greeting her cordially, and gazing upon
her with unfeigned admiration
she asked, smiling and blushing
said Marie
said Leroy, laying his hand playfully on her lips
Leroy drew her nearer, and whispered in her ear a single word. She
started, trembled with emotion, grew pale, and blushed painfully. An
awkward silence ensued, when Leroy, pressing her hand, exclaimed
Leroy looked earnestly into her eyes, which fell beneath his ardent
gaze. With admirable self-control, while a great joy was thrilling her
heart, she bowed her beautiful head and softly repeated
Leroy knew Southern society too well to expect it to condone his offense
against its social customs, or give the least recognition to his wife,
however cultured, refined, and charming she might be, if it were known
that she had the least infusion of negro blood in her veins. But he was
brave enough to face the consequences of his alliance, and marry the
woman who was the choice of his heart, and on whom his affections were
centred.

After Leroy had left the room, Marie sat awhile thinking of the
wonderful change that had come over her. Instead of being a lonely slave
girl, with the fatal dower of beauty, liable to be bought and sold,
exchanged, and bartered, she was to be the wife of a wealthy planter; a
man in whose honor she could confide, and on whose love she could lean.

Very interesting and pleasant were the commencement exercises in which
Marie bore an important part. To enlist sympathy for her enslaved race,
and appear to advantage before Leroy, had aroused all of her energies.
The stimulus of hope, the manly love which was environing her life,
brightened her eye and lit up the wonderful beauty of her countenance.
During her stay in the North she had constantly been brought in contact
with anti-slavery people. She was not aware that there was so much
kindness among the white people of the country until she had tested it
in the North. From the anti-slavery people in private life she had
learned some of the noblest lessons of freedom and justice, and had
become imbued with their sentiments. Her theme was
Graphically she portrayed the lights, faithfully she showed the shadows
of our American civilization. Earnestly and feelingly she spoke of the
blind Sampson in our land, who might yet shake the pillars of our great
Commonwealth. Leroy listened attentively. At times a shadow of annoyance
would overspread his face, but it was soon lost in the admiration her
earnestness and zeal inspired. Like Esther pleading for the lives of her
people in the Oriental courts of a despotic king, she stood before the
audience, pleading for those whose lips were sealed, but whose condition
appealed to the mercy and justice of the Nation. Strong men wiped the
moisture from their eyes, and women's hearts throbbed in unison with the
strong, brave words that were uttered in behalf of freedom for all and
chains for none. Generous applause was freely bestowed, and beautiful
bouquets were showered upon her. When it was known that she was to be
the wife of her guardian, warm congratulations were given, and earnest
hopes expressed for the welfare of the lonely girl, who, nearly all her
life, had been deprived of a parent's love and care. On the eve of
starting South Leroy procured a license, and united his destiny with the
young lady whose devotion in the darkest hour had won his love and
gratitude.

In a few days Marie returned as mistress to the plantation from which
she had gone as a slave. But as unholy alliances were common in those
days between masters and slaves, no one took especial notice that Marie
shared Leroy's life as mistress of his home, and that the family silver
and jewelry were in her possession. But Leroy, happy in his choice,
attended to the interests of his plantation, and found companionship in
his books and in the society of his wife. A few male companions visited
him occasionally, admired the magnificent beauty of his wife, shook
their heads, and spoke of him as being very eccentric, but thought his
marriage the great mistake of his life. But none of his female friends
ever entered his doors, when it became known that Marie held the
position of mistress of his mansion, and presided at his table. But she,
sheltered in the warm clasp of loving arms, found her life like a joyous
dream.

Into that quiet and beautiful home three children were born, unconscious
of the doom suspended over their heads
Marie would often say
said Eugene
said Marie
said Leroy, in astonishment
answered Marie
said Marie
said Leroy, carelessly; and then he continued more
thoughtfully
Even while Leroy dreamed of safety the earthquake was cradling its fire;
the ground was growing hollow beneath his tread; but his ear was too
dull to catch the sound; his vision too blurred to read the signs of the
times
said Leroy, taking up the thread of the discourse
asked Marie
said Marie
A shadow flitted over Leroy's face, as he answered, somewhat soberly
said Marie, pressing to her heart a beautiful child of six
summers
As Marie released the child from her arms she looked wonderingly into
her mother's face and clung closely to her, as if to find refuge from
some unseen evil. Leroy noticed this, and sighed unconsciously, as an
expression of pain flitted over his face
he continued
As Marie sang the anxiety faded from her face, a sense of security stole
over her, and she sat among her loved ones a happy wife and mother. What
if no one recognized her on that lonely plantation! Her world was,
nevertheless, there. The love and devotion of her husband brightened
every avenue of her life, while her children filled her home with music,
mirth, and sunshine.

Marie had undertaken their education, but she could not give them the
culture which comes from the attrition of thought, and from contact with
the ideas of others. Since her school-days she had read extensively and
thought much, and in solitude her thoughts had ripened. But for her
children there were no companions except the young slaves of the
plantation, and she dreaded the effect of such intercourse upon their
lives and characters.

Leroy had always been especially careful to conceal from his children
the knowledge of their connection with the negro race. To Marie this
silence was oppressive.

One day she said to him
said Leroy
A troubled look passed over the face of Marie, as she hesitatingly said
said Leroy, tenderly
said Marie, sadly
said Leroy
After this conversation Leroy and his wife went North, and succeeded in
finding a good school for their children. In a private interview he
confided to the principal the story of the cross in their blood, and,
finding him apparently free from racial prejudice, he gladly left the
children in his care. Gracie, the youngest child, remained at home, and
her mother spared no pains to fit her for the seminary against the time
her sister should have finished her education
Years passed, bringing no special change to the life of Leroy and his
wife. Shut out from the busy world, its social cares and anxieties,
Marie's life flowed peacefully on. Although removed by the protecting
care of Leroy from the condition of servitude, she still retained a deep
sympathy for the enslaved, and was ever ready to devise plans to
ameliorate their condition.

Leroy, although in the midst of slavery, did not believe in the
rightfulness of the institution. He was in favor of gradual
emancipation, which would prepare both master and slave for a moral
adaptation to the new conditions of freedom. While he was willing to
have the old rivets taken out of slavery, politicians and planters were
devising plans to put in new screws. He was desirous of having it ended
in the States; they were clamorous to have it established in the
Territories.

But so strong was the force of habit, combined with the feebleness of
his moral resistance and the nature of his environment, that instead of
being an athlete, armed for a glorious strife, he had learned to drift
where he should have steered, to float with the current instead of nobly
breasting the tide. He conducted his plantation with as much lenity as
it was possible to infuse into a system darkened with the shadow of a
million crimes.

Leroy had always been especially careful not to allow his children to
spend their vacations at home. He and Marie generally spent that time
with them at some summer resort
said Marie, one day
and her voice became tremulous
A faint sigh arose to the lips of Leroy, as she added
There was a tone of sadness in Leroy's voice, as he replied
exclaimed Marie, with an air of astonishment
asked Marie
Just then Alfred Lorraine was ushered into the room. Occasionally he
visited Leroy, but he always came alone. His wife was the only daughter
of an enterprising slave-trader, who had left her a large amount of
property.

Her social training was deficient, her education limited, but she was
too proud of being a pure white woman to enter the home of Leroy, with
Marie as its presiding genius. Lorraine tolerated Marie's presence as a
necessary evil, while to her he always seemed like a presentiment of
trouble. With his coming a shadow fell upon her home, hushing its music
and darkening its sunshine. A sense of dread oppressed her. There came
into her soul an intuitive feeling that somehow his coming was fraught
with danger. When not peering around she would often catch his eyes bent
on her with a baleful expression.

Leroy and his cousin immediately fell into a discussion on the condition
of the country. Lorraine was a rank Secessionist, ready to adopt the
most extreme measures of the leaders of the movement, even to the
reopening of the slave trade. Leroy thought a dissolution of the Union
would involve a fearful expenditure of blood and treasure for which,
before the eyes of the world, there could be no justification. The
debate lasted late into the night, leaving both Lorraine and Leroy just
as set in their opinions as they were before they began. Marie listened
attentively awhile, then excused herself and withdrew.

After Lorraine had gone Marie said
Leroy looked anxiously and soberly at his wife, and said
Just then Marie's attention was drawn to some household matters, and it
was a short time before she returned
continued Leroy
Marie noticed that he looked quite sober as he read, and that an
expression of vexation was lingering on his lips
asked Marie
asked Marie, thoughtfully
Leroy, always liberal with his wife and children, spared neither pains
nor expense to have them prepared for their summer outing. Iola was to
graduate in a few days. Harry was attending a school in the State of
Maine, and his father had written to him, apprising him of his intention
to come North that season. In a few days Leroy and his wife started
North, but before they reached Vicksburg they were met by the
intelligence that the yellow fever was spreading in the Delta, and that
pestilence was breathing its bane upon the morning air and distilling
its poison upon the midnight dews
said Marie
answered Leroy
Early next morning Leroy and his wife started again on their journey.
The cars were filled with terror-stricken people who were fleeing from
death, when death was everywhere. They fled from the city only to meet
the dreaded apparition in the country. As they journeyed on Leroy grew
restless and feverish. He tried to brace himself against the infection
which was creeping slowly but insidiously into his life, dulling his
brain, fevering his blood, and prostrating his strength. But vain were
all his efforts. He had no armor strong enough to repel the invasion of
death. They stopped at a small town on the way and obtained the best
medical skill and most careful nursing, but neither skill nor art
availed. On the third day death claimed Leroy as a victim, and Marie
wept in hopeless agony over the grave of her devoted husband, whose sad
lot it was to die from home and be buried among strangers.

But before he died he placed his will in Marie's hands, saying
He tried to say a parting word to Gracie, but his voice failed, and he
fainted into the stillness of death. A mortal paleness overspread his
countenance, on which had already gathered the shadows that never
deceive. In speechless agony Marie held his hand until it released its
pressure in death, and then she stood alone beside her dead, with all
the bright sunshine of her life fading into the shadows of the grave.
Heart-broken and full of fearful forebodings, Marie left her cherished
dead in the quiet village of H ---- and returned to her death-darkened
home.

It was a lovely day in June, birds were singing their sweetest songs,
flowers were breathing their fragrance on the air, when Mam Liza,
sitting at her cabin-door, talking with some of the house servants, saw
a carriage approaching, and wondered who was coming
she said, excitedly
But her surprise was soon changed to painful amazement, when she saw
Marie, robed in black, alighting from the carriage, and holding Gracie
by the hand. She caught sight of the drooping head and grief-stricken
face, and rushed to her, exclaiming
said Marie, falling into Mammy Liza's arms, sobbing out
A wild burst of sorrow came from the lips of the servants, who had
drawn near
said Mam Liza, speaking like one suddenly bewildered
said Marie
said Mam Liza, with broken sobs
Then, controlling herself, she dismissed
the servants who stood around, weeping, and led Marie to her room
said Marie, wringing her hands in
bitter agony
said Mam Liza
Kneeling by the side of her mistress she breathed out a prayer full of
tenderness, hope, and trust.

Marie grew calmer. It seemed as if that earnest, trustful prayer had
breathed into her soul a feeling of resignation.

Gracie stood wonderingly by, vainly trying to comprehend the great
sorrow which was overwhelming the life of her mother.

After the first great burst of sorrow was over, Marie sat down to her
desk and wrote a letter to Iola, informing her of her father's death. By
the time she had finished it she grew dizzy and faint, and fell into a
swoon. Mammy Liza tenderly laid her on the bed, and helped restore her
to consciousness.

Lorraine, having heard of his cousin's death, came immediately to see
Marie. She was too ill to have an interview with him, but he picked up
the letter she had written and obtained Iola's address.

Lorraine made a careful investigation of the case, to ascertain whether
Marie's marriage was valid. To his delight he found there was a flaw in
the marriage and an informality in the manumission. He then determined
to invalidate Marie's claim, and divide the inheritance among Leroy's
white relations. In a short time strangers, distant relatives of her
husband, became frequent visitors at the plantation, and made themselves
offensively familiar. At length the dreadful storm burst.

Alfred Lorraine entered suit for his cousin's estate, and for the
remanding of his wife and children to slavery. In a short time he came
armed with legal authority, and said to Marie
she gasped, turning deathly pale. He hesitated a
moment, as if his words were arrested by a sense of shame
she again demanded
answered Lorraine
exclaimed Marie
Marie stood as one petrified. She seemed a statue of fear and despair.
She tried to speak, reached out her hand as if she were groping in the
dark, turned pale as death as if all the blood in her veins had receded
to her heart, and, with one heart-rending cry of bitter agony, she fell
senseless to the floor. Her servants, to whom she had been so kind in
her days of prosperity, bent pityingly over her, chafed her cold hands,
and did what they could to restore her to consciousness. For awhile she
was stricken with brain fever, and her life seemed trembling on its
frailest cord.

Gracie was like one perfectly dazed. When not watching by her mother's
bedside she wandered aimlessly about the house, growing thinner day by
day. A slow fever was consuming her life. Faithfully and carefully Mammy
Liza watched over her, and did all she could to bring smiles to her lips
and light to her fading eyes, but all in vain. Her only interest in life
was to sit where she could watch her mother as she tossed to and fro in
delirium, and to wonder what had brought the change in her once happy
home. Finally she, too, was stricken with brain fever, which intervened
as a mercy between her and the great sorrow that was overshadowing her
young life. Tears would fill the servants' eyes as they saw the dear
child drifting from them like a lovely vision, too bright for earth's
dull cares and weary, wasting pain
During Iola's stay in the North she found a strong tide of opposition
against slavery. Arguments against the institution had entered the
Church and made legislative halls the arenas of fierce debate. The
subject had become part of the social converse of the fireside, and had
enlisted the best brain and heart of the country. Anti-slavery
discussions were pervading the strongest literature and claiming, a
place on the most popular platforms.

Iola, being a Southern girl and a slave-holder's daughter, always
defended slavery when it was under discussion
she would say
responded one of her school friends
was the response of her friend
answered Iola
This question was asked by Louis Bastine, an attorney who had come North
in the interests of Lorraine. The scene was the New England village
where Mr. Galen's academy was located, and which Iola was attending.
This question was addressed to Camille Lecroix, Bastine's intimate
friend, who had lately come North. He was the son of a planter who lived
near Leroy's plantation, and was familiar with Iola's family history.
Since his arrival North, Bastine had met him and communicated to him his
intentions
was Camille's reply
said Louis Bastine
said Camille
replied Bastine
queried Camille
said Bastine
asked Camille
said Bastine
said Bastine
Poor Iola! When she said slavery was not a bad thing, little did she
think that she was destined to drink to its bitter dregs the cup she was
so ready to press to the lips of others
asked Camille
said Bastine
replied Bastine
A deep flush of shame overspread for a moment the face of Lorraine's
attorney, as he replied
was Bastine's hard, business-like reply. On the
next morning after this conversation between these two young men, Louis
Bastine presented himself to the principal of the academy, with the
request that Iola be permitted to leave immediately to attend the
sick-bed of her father, who was dangerously ill. The principal
hesitated, but while he was deliberating, a telegram, purporting to come
from Iola's mother, summoned Iola to her father's bedside without delay.
The principal, set at rest in regard to the truthfulness of the
dispatch, not only permitted but expedited her departure.

Iola and Bastine took the earliest train, and traveled without pausing
until they reached a large hotel in a Southern city. There they were
obliged to wait a few hours until they could resume their journey, the
train having failed to make connection. Iola sat in a large, lonely
parlor, waiting for the servant to show her to a private room. She had
never known a great sorrow. Never before had the shadows of death
mingled with the sunshine of her life.

Anxious, travel-worn, and heavy-hearted, she sat in an easy chair, with
nothing to divert her from the grief and anxiety which rendered every
delay a source of painful anxiety
was the thought
which kept constantly revolving in her mind, until she fell asleep. In
her dreams she was at home, encircled in the warm clasp of her father's
arms, feeling her mother's kisses lingering on her lips, and hearing the
joyous greetings of the servants and Mammy Liza's glad welcome as she
folded her to her heart. From this dream of bliss she was awakened by a
burning kiss pressed on her lips, and a strong arm encircling her.
Gazing around and taking in the whole situation, she sprang from her
seat, her eyes flashing with rage and scorn, her face flushed to the
roots of her hair, her voice shaken with excitement, and every nerve
trembling with angry emotion
said Bastine
replied Bastine
she exclaimed, trembling with anger and
mortification. Her voice was choked by emotion, and broken by smothered
sobs. Louis Bastine thought to himself
During the rest of her journey Iola preserved a most freezing reserve
towards Bastine. At length the journey was ended. Pale and anxious she
rode up the avenue which led to her home.

A strange silence pervaded the place. The servants moved sadly from
place to place, and spoke in subdued tones. The windows were heavily
draped with crape, and a funeral air pervaded the house.

Mammy Liza met her at the door, and, with streaming eyes and convulsive
sobs, folded her to her heart, as Iola exclaimed, in tones of hopeless
anguish
said mammy
Mam Liza stepped lightly into Mrs. Leroy's room, and gently apprised her
of Iola's arrival. In a darkened room lay the stricken mother, almost
distracted by her late bereavement
she exclaimed, as her daughter entered
Then, burying her head in Iola's bosom, she wept convulsively
she continued, between her sobs
replied Iola, astonished
Iola eyed her mother curiously. What did she mean? Had grief dethroned
her reason? Yet her eye was clear, her manner perfectly rational.

Marie saw the astounded look on Iola's face, and nerving herself to the
task, said
An expression of horror and anguish swept over Iola's face, and, turning
deathly pale, she exclaimed
Almost wild with agony, Iola paced the floor, as the fearful truth broke
in crushing anguish upon her mind. Then bursting into a paroxysm of
tears succeeded by peals of hysterical laughter, said
Then growing calmer, she said
she said,
placing a New Testament in Iola's hands
called a faint voice from the adjoining room. Marie
immediately arose and went to the bedside of her sick child, where Mammy
Liza was holding her faithful vigils. The child had just awakened from a
fitful sleep
she said
she said, as a bright smile broke over her dying features.

Iola passed quickly into the room. Gracie reached out her thin,
bloodless hand, clasped Iola's palm in hers, and said
Swiftly the tidings went through the house that Gracie was dying. The
servants gathered around her with tearful eyes, as she bade them all
good-bye. When she had finished, and Mammy had lowered the pillow, an
unwonted radiance lit up her eye, and an expression of ineffable
gladness overspread her face, as she murmured
Fainter and fainter grew her voice, until, without a
struggle or sigh, she passed away beyond the power of oppression and
prejudice
Very unexpected was Dr Gresham's proposal to Iola. She had heartily
enjoyed his society and highly valued his friendship, but he had never
been associated in her mind with either love or marriage. As he held her
hand in his a tell-tale flush rose to her cheek, a look of grateful
surprise beamed from her eye, but it was almost immediately succeeded by
an air of inexpressible sadness, a drooping of her eyelids, and an
increasing pallor of her cheek. She withdrew her hand from his, shook
her head sadly, and said
said Dr Gresham
Just then the ambulance brought in a wounded scout, and Iola found
relief from the wounds of her own heart in attending to his.

Dr Gresham knew the barrier that lay between them. It was one which his
love had surmounted. But he was too noble and generous to take advantage
of her loneliness to press his suit. He had lived in a part of the
country where he had scarcely ever seen a colored person, and around the
race their misfortunes had thrown a halo of romance. To him the negro
was a picturesque being, over whose woes he had wept when a child, and
whose wrongs he was ready to redress when a man. But when he saw the
lovely girl who had been rescued by the commander of the post from the
clutches of slavery, all the manhood and chivalry in his nature arose in
her behalf, and he was ready to lay on the altar of her heart his first
grand and overmastering love. Not discouraged by her refusal, but
determined to overcome her objections, Dr Gresham resolved that he
would abide his time.

Iola was not indifferent to Dr Gresham. She admired his manliness and
respected his character. He was tall and handsome, a fine specimen of
the best brain and heart of New England. He had been nurtured under
grand and ennobling influences. His father was a devoted Abolitionist.
His mother was kind-hearted, but somewhat exclusive and aristocratic.
She would have looked upon his marriage with Iola as a mistake and
feared that such an alliance would hurt the prospects of her daughters.

During Iola's stay in the North, she had learned enough of the racial
feeling to influence her decision in reference to Dr Gresham's offer.
Iola, like other girls, had had her beautiful day-dreams before she was
rudely awakened by the fate which had dragged her into the depths of
slavery. In the chambers of her imagery were pictures of noble deeds; of
high, heroic men, knightly, tender, true, and brave. In Dr Gresham she
saw the ideal of her soul exemplified. But in her lonely condition,
with all its background of terrible sorrow and deep abasement, she had
never for a moment thought of giving or receiving love from one of that
race who had been so lately associated in her mind with horror,
aversion, and disgust. His kindness to her had been a new experience.
His companionship was an unexpected pleasure. She had learned to enjoy
his presence and to miss him when absent, and when she began to question
her heart she found that unconsciously it was entwining around him
she said to herself
During the sad and weary months which ensued while the war dragged its
slow length along, Dr Gresham and Iola often met by the bedsides of the
wounded and dying, and sometimes he would drop a few words at which her
heart would beat quicker and her cheek flush more vividly. But he was so
kind, tender, and respectful, that Iola had no idea he knew her race
affiliations. She knew from unmistakable signs that Dr Gresham had
learned to love her, and that he had power to call forth the warmest
affection of her soul; but she fought with her own heart and repressed
its rising love. She felt that it was best for his sake that they should
not marry. When she saw the evidences of his increasing love she
regretted that she had not informed him at the first of the barrier that
lay between them; it might have saved him unnecessary suffering.
Thinking thus, Iola resolved, at whatever cost of pain it might be to
herself, to explain to Dr Gresham what she meant by the insurmountable
barrier. Iola, after a continuous strain upon her nervous system for
months, began to suffer from general debility and nervous depression.
Dr Gresham saw the increasing pallor on Iola's cheek and the loss of
buoyancy in her step. One morning, as she turned from the bed of a young
soldier for whom she had just written a letter to his mother, there was
such a look of pity and sorrow on her face that Dr Gresham's whole
heart went out in sympathy for her, and he resolved to break the silence
he had imposed upon himself
he said, and there was a depth of passionate tenderness in his
voice, a volume of unexpressed affection in his face
He gazed upon her so ardently that each cord of her heart
seemed to vibrate, and unbidden tears sprang to her lustrous eyes, as
she said, sadly
replied Iola
replied Dr Gresham
said Iola, as a deep flush overspread her
face
asked Iola, bitterly
said Dr Gresham
said Iola, earnestly
said Dr Gresham, a little impatiently
The tones of his voice grew tender, as he raised his eyes
to Iola's face and anxiously awaited her reply
said Iola, sadly
she said, and a faint flush rose to her cheek
She looked steadfastly into his eyes, which fell beneath her
truth-seeking gaze. His face flushed as if the question had suddenly
perplexed him. Iola saw the irresolution on his face, and framed her
answer accordingly
she said
There was a deep shadow of sorrow and disappointment on the face of Dr.
Gresham as he rose to leave. For a moment he held her hand as it lay
limp in his own. If she wavered in her determination it was only for a
moment. No quivering of her lip or paling of her cheek betrayed any
struggle of her heart. Her resolve was made, and his words were
powerless to swerve her from the purpose of her soul.

After Dr Gresham had gone Iola went to her room and sat buried in
thought. It seemed as if the fate of Tantalus was hers, without his
crimes. Here she was lonely and heart-stricken, and unto her was
presented the offer of love, home, happiness, and social position; the
heart and hand of a man too noble and generous to refuse her
companionship for life on account of the blood in her veins. Why should
she refuse these desirable boons? But, mingling with these beautiful
visions of manly love and protecting care she saw the anguish of her
heart-stricken mother and the pale, sweet face of her dying sister, as
with her latest breath she had said
she said to herself
It was several weeks after Iola had written to her brother that her
letter reached him. The trusty servant to whom she delivered it watched
his opportunity to mail it. At last he succeeded in slipping it into
Lorraine's mail and dropping them all into the post office together.
Harry was studying at a boys' academy in Maine. His father had given
that State the preference because, while on a visit there, he had been
favorably impressed with the kindness and hospitality of the people. He
had sent his son a large sum of money, and given him permission to spend
awhile with some school-chums till he was ready to bring the family
North, where they could all spend the summer together. Harry had
returned from his visit, and was looking for letters and remittances
from home, when a letter, all crumpled, was handed him by the principal
of the academy. He recognized his sister's handwriting and eagerly
opened the letter. As he read, he turned very pale; then a deep flush
overspread his face and an angry light flashed from his eyes. As he read
on, his face became still paler; he gasped for breath and fell into a
swoon. Appalled at the sudden change which had swept over him like a
deadly sirocco, the principal rushed to the fallen boy, picked up the
missive that lay beside him, and immediately rang for help and
dispatched for the doctor. The doctor came at once and was greatly
puzzled. Less than an hour before, he had seen him with a crowd of
merry, laughter-loving boys, apparently as light-hearted and joyous as
any of them; now he lay with features drawn and pinched, his face deadly
pale, as if some terrible suffering had sent all the blood in his veins
to stagnate around his heart. Harry opened his eyes, shuddered, and
relapsed into silence. The doctor, all at sea in regard to the cause of
the sudden attack, did all that he could to restore him to consciousness
and quiet the perturbation of his spirit. He succeeded, but found he was
strangely silent. A terrible shock had sent a tremor through every
nerve, and the doctor watched with painful apprehension its effect upon
his reason. Giving him an opiate and enjoining that he should be kept
perfectly quiet, the doctor left the room, sought the principal, and
said
Mr. Bascom hesitated
The principal arose, went to his desk, took out the letter which he had
picked up from the floor, and laid it in the physician's hand. As the
doctor read, a look of indignant horror swept over his face. Then he
said
said Mr. Bascom
said the doctor
Fortunately for Harry he had fallen into good hands, and the most tender
care and nursing were bestowed upon him. For awhile Harry was strangely
silent, never referring to the terrible misfortune which had so suddenly
overshadowed his life. It seemed as if the past were suddenly blotted
out of his memory. But he was young and of an excellent constitution,
and in a few months he was slowly recovering
said he one day, as the physician sat at his bedside
Sitting by his bedside, and taking his emaciated hand in his, the doctor
said, in a kind, fatherly tone
As soon as he was strong enough the principal gave him his letter to
read
Harry said
answered the principal
said Harry
continued Mr. Bascom
Harry listened attentively. Things which had puzzled him once now became
perfectly clear. He sighed heavily, and, turning to the principal, said
said the principal
cried Harry
said Mr. Bascom
Harry winced when the question was asked. He felt the reality of his
situation as he had not done before. It was as if two paths had suddenly
opened before him, and he was forced to choose between them. On one side
were strength, courage, enterprise, power of achievement, and memories
of a wonderful past. On the other side were weakness, ignorance,
poverty, and the proud world's social scorn. He knew nothing of colored
people except as slaves, and his whole soul shrank from equalizing
himself with them. He was fair enough to pass unchallenged among the
fairest in the land, and yet a Christless prejudice had decreed that he
should be a social pariah. He sat, thoughtful and undecided, as if a
great struggle were going on in his mind. Finally the principal said
Since Harry had come North he had learned to feel profound pity for the
slave. But there is a difference between looking on a man as an object
of pity and protecting him as such, and being identified with him and
forced to share his lot. To take his place with them on the arena of
life was the test of his life, but love was stronger than pride.

His father was dead. His mother and sister were enslaved by a mockery of
justice. It was more than a matter of choice where he should stand on
the racial question. He felt that he must stand where he could strike
the most effective blow for their freedom. With that thought strong in
his mind, and as soon as he recovered, he went westward to find a
colored regiment. He told the recruiting officer that he wished to be
assigned to a colored regiment
said the officer, looking at Harry with an air
of astonishment
The officer look puzzled. It was a new experience. He had seen colored
men with fair complexions anxious to lose their identity with the
colored race and pose as white men, but here was a man in the flush of
his early manhood, to whom could come dreams of promotion from a simple
private to a successful general, deliberately turning his back upon
every gilded hope and dazzling opportunity, to cast his lot with the
despised and hated negro
said the officer
said Harry, firmly
said the officer
So Harry was permitted to enter the army. By his promptness and valor he
soon won the hearts of his superior officers, and was made drill
sergeant. Having nearly all of his life been used to colored people, and
being taught by his mother to be kind and respectful to them, he was
soon able to gain their esteem. He continued in the regiment until Grant
began the task of opening the Mississippi. After weeks of fruitless
effort, Grant marched his army down the west side of the river, while
the gunboats undertook the perilous task of running the batteries. Men
were found for the hour. The volunteers offered themselves in such
numbers that lots were cast to determine who should have the opportunity
to enlist in an enterprise so fraught with danger. Harry was one on whom
the lot fell.

Grant crossed the river below, coiled his forces around Vicksburg like
a boa-constrictor, and held it in his grasp. After forty-seven days of
endurance the city surrendered to him. Port Hudson, after the surrender
of Vicksburg, gave up the unequal contest, and the Mississippi was open
to the Gulf
said Robert Johnson, as he approached Colonel
Robinson, the commander of the post, who was standing at the door of his
tent, talking with Captain Sybil
responded Colonel Robinson
replied Robert
said Colonel Robinson
said Captain Sybil
said Colonel Robinson
said Captain Sybil
said Colonel Robinson
said Captain Sybil
said Colonel Robinson
said Captain Sybil
said Colonel Robinson
said Robert
said Captain Sybil
said Colonel Robinson
said Captain Sybil
asked Robert
continued Captain Sybil
said Robert, as they left Colonel Robinson's tent
replied Captain Sybil
asked Robert
said Robert
said Captain Sybil
queried Sybil
retorted Robert
asked Sybil
interrogated Captain Sybil
continued Robert
asked Captain Sybil
Just then a messenger brought a communication to Captain Sybil. He read
it attentively, and, turning to Robert, said
Carefully Robert superintended the arrangements for the coming battle of
a strife which for years had thrown its crimson shadows over the land.
The Rebels fought with a valor worthy of a better cause. The disaster of
Bull Run had been retrieved. Sherman had made his famous march to the
sea. Fighting Joe Hooker had scaled the stronghold of the storm king and
won a victory in the palace chamber of the clouds; the Union soldiers
had captured Columbia, replanted the Stars and Stripes in Charleston,
and changed that old sepulchre of slavery into the cradle of a new-born
freedom. Farragut had been as triumphant on water as the other generals
had been victorious on land, and New Orleans had been wrenched from the
hands of the Confederacy. The Rebel leaders were obstinate. Misguided
hordes had followed them to defeat and death. Grant was firm and
determined to fight it out if it took all summer. The closing battles
were fought with desperate courage and firm resistance, but at last the
South was forced to succumb. On the ninth day of April, 1865, General
Lee surrendered to General Grant. The lost cause went down in blood and
tears, and on the brows of a ransomed people God poured the chrism of a
new era, and they stood a race newly anointed with freedom
Very sad and heart-rending were the scenes with which Iola came in
constant contact. Well may Christian men and women labor and pray for
the time when nations shall learn war no more; when, instead of bloody
conflicts, there shall be peaceful arbitration. The battle in which
Robert fought, after his last conversation with Captain Sybil, was one
of the decisive struggles of the closing conflict. The mills of doom and
fate had ground out a fearful grist of agony and death
Numbers were taken prisoners. Pale, young corpses strewed the earth;
manhood was stricken down in the flush of its energy and prime. The
ambulances brought in the wounded and dying. Captain Sybil laid down his
life on the altar of freedom. His prediction was fulfilled. Robert was
brought into the hospital, wounded, but not dangerously. Iola remembered
him as being the friend of Tom Anderson, and her heart was drawn
instinctively towards him. For awhile he was delirious, but her presence
had a soothing effect upon him. He sometimes imagined that she was his
mother, and he would tell her how he had missed her; and then at times
he would call her sister. Iola, tender and compassionate, humored his
fancies, and would sing to him in low, sweet tones some of the hymns
she had learned in her old home in Mississippi. One day she sang a few
verses of the hymn beginning with the words
said he, looking earnestly into Iola's face
Iola gazed inquiringly upon the face of her patient, and saw, by his
clear gaze and the expression of his face, that his reason had returned
was Iola's reply
asked Robert
asked
Robert, anxiously
Robert lay quiet and thoughtful for awhile and, seeing he was wakeful,
Iola said
A pathetic expression flitted over his face, as he sadly replied
Iola's voice rose soft and clear by his bedside, till he fell into a
quiet slumber. She remembered that her mother had spoken of her brother
before they had parted, and her interest and curiosity were awakened by
Robert's story. While he slept, she closely scrutinized Robert's
features, and detected a striking resemblance between him and her
mother
Anxious as she was to ascertain if there was any relationship between
Robert and her mother, she forebore to question him on the subject which
lay so near her heart. But one day, when he was so far recovered as to
be able to walk around, he met Iola on the hospital grounds, and said to
her
asked Iola
said Iola, handing him a locket which contained her
mother's picture.

Robert grasped the locket eagerly, scanned the features attentively,
then, handing it back, said
answered Iola
Iola shuddered as she pronounced the horrid
word, and grew deadly pale; but, regaining her self-possession,
continued
said Robert
said Iola
asked Robert
replied Iola
said Dr Gresham, approaching Robert and Iola
turning to Robert
he continued, turning respectfully to Iola
replied Iola
asked the Doctor
asked Iola
replied the doctor
said Iola
In a few days after this conversation the hospital was closed. The sick
and convalescent were removed, and Iola obtained a position as a
teacher. Very soon Iola realized that while she was heartily appreciated
by the freedmen, she was an object of suspicion and dislike to their
former owners. The North had conquered by the supremacy of the sword,
and the South had bowed to the inevitable. But here was a new army that
had come with an invasion of ideas, that had come to supplant ignorance
with knowledge, and it was natural that its members should be unwelcome
to those who had made it a crime to teach their slaves to read the name
of the ever blessed Christ. But Iola had found her work, and the freed
men their friend.

When Iola opened her school she took pains to get acquainted with the
parents of the children, and she gained their confidence and
co-operation. Her face was a passport to their hearts. Ignorant of
books, human faces were the scrolls from which they had been reading for
ages. They had been the sunshine and shadow of their lives.

Iola had found a school-room in the basement of a colored church, where
the doors were willingly opened to her. Her pupils came from miles
around, ready and anxious to get some
Some of the old
folks were eager to learn, and it was touching to see the eyes which had
grown dim under the shadows of slavery, donning spectacles and trying to
make out the words. As Iola had nearly all of her life been accustomed
to colored children she had no physical repulsions to overcome, no
prejudices to conquer in dealing with parents and children. In their
simple childish fashion they would bring her fruits and flowers, and
gladden her lonely heart with little tokens of affection.

One day a gentleman came to the school and wished to address the
children. Iola suspended the regular order of the school, and the
gentleman essayed to talk to them on the achievements of the white race,
such as building steamboats and carrying on business. Finally, he asked
how they did it
chorused the children
chimed the youngsters. Iola smiled, and the
gentleman was nonplussed; but he could not deny that one of the powers
of knowledge is the power of the strong to oppress the weak.

The school was soon overcrowded with applicants, and Iola was forced to
refuse numbers, because their quarters were too cramped. The school was
beginning to lift up the home, for Iola was not satisfied to teach her
children only the rudiments of knowledge. She had tried to lay the
foundation of good character. But the elements of evil burst upon her
loved and cherished work. One night the heavens were lighted with lurid
flames, and Iola beheld the school, the pride and joy of her pupils and
their parents, a smouldering ruin. Iola gazed with sorrowful dismay on
what seemed the cruel work of an incendiary's torch. While she sat,
mournfully contemplating the work of destruction, her children formed a
procession, and, passing by the wreck of their school, sang
As they sang, the tears sprang to Iola's eyes, and she said to herself
To bind anew the ties which slavery had broken and gather together the
remnants of his scattered family became the earnest purpose of Robert's
life. Iola, hopeful that in Robert she had found her mother's brother,
was glad to know she was not alone in _her_ search. Having sent out
lines of inquiry in different directions, she was led to hope, from some
of the replies she had received, that her mother was living somewhere in
Georgia.

Hearing that a Methodist conference was to convene in that State, and
being acquainted with the bishop of that district, she made arrangements
to accompany him thither. She hoped to gather some tidings of her mother
through the ministers gathered from different parts of that State.

From her brother she had heard nothing since her father's death. On his
way to the conference, the bishop had an engagement to dedicate a
church, near the city of C ----, in North Carolina. Iola was quite
willing to stop there a few days, hoping to hear something of Robert
Johnson's mother. Soon after she had seated herself in the cars she was
approached by a gentleman, who reached out his hand to her, and greeted
her with great cordiality. Iola looked up, and recognized him
immediately as one of her last patients at the hospital. It was none
other than Robert Johnson
he said
said Iola
said Robert
and smilingly he
lifted his hair from his temple, on which was a large, red spot
exclaimed Iola, fixing her eyes, beaming with hope and
confidence, on Robert
said Robert
Just then the conductor called out the station
said Robert
replied Iola
said Robert
said Iola
said the bishop
said Robert, lifting his hat, as he left them to pursue his
inquiries about his long-lost mother.

Quickly he trod the old familiar streets which led to his former home.
He found Mrs. Johnson, but she had aged very fast since the war. She was
no longer the lithe, active woman, with her proud manner and resolute
bearing. Her eye had lost its brightness, her step its elasticity, and
her whole appearance indicated that she was slowly sinking beneath a
weight of sorrow which was heavier far than her weight of years. When
she heard that Robert had called to see her she was going to receive him
in the hall, as she would have done any of her former slaves, but her
mind immediately changed when she saw him. He was not the light-hearted,
careless, mischief-loving Robby of former days, but a handsome man,
with heavy moustache, dark, earnest eyes, and proud military bearing. He
smiled, and reached out his hand to her. She hardly knew how to address
him. To her colored people were either boys and girls, or
She had never in her life addressed a colored person as
To do so now was to violate the social customs of the place. It
would be like learning a new language in her old age. Robert immediately
set her at ease by addressing her under the old familiar name of
This immediately relieved her of all embarrassment. She invited
him into the sitting-room, and gave him a warm welcome
she said
replied Robert
she said, musingly
asked Robert
Mrs. Johnson said
After Robert's interview with Mrs. Johnson he thought he would visit the
settlement and hunt up his old friends. He easily found the place. It
was on a clearing in Gundover's woods, where Robert and Uncle Daniel had
held their last prayer-meeting. Now the gloomy silence of those woods
was broken by the hum of industry, the murmur of cheerful voices, and
the merry laughter of happy children. Where they had trodden with fear
and misgiving, freedmen walked with light and bounding hearts. The
school-house had taken the place of the slave-pen and auction-block
asked one laborer of another
replied the other. The blue sky arching overhead
and the beauty of the scenery justified the expression.

Gundover had died soon after the surrender. Frank Anderson had grown
reckless and drank himself to death. His brother Tom had been killed in
battle. Their mother, who was Gundover's daughter, had died insane.
Their father had also passed away. The defeat of the Confederates, the
loss of his sons, and the emancipation of his slaves, were blows from
which he never recovered. As Robert passed leisurely along, delighted
with the evidences of thrift and industry which constantly met his eye,
he stopped to admire a garden filled with beautiful flowers, clambering
vines, and rustic adornments.

On the porch sat an elderly woman, darning stockings, the very
embodiment of content and good humor. Robert looked inquiringly at her.
On seeing him, she almost immediately exclaimed
responded Robert
she
said, handing Robert a chair
said Robert, seating himself near her, and drinking
the glass of milk which she had handed him
said Robert
asked Robert
exclaimed Aunt Linda
said Robert
said Robert
asked Robert
assented Robert
said Robert
asked Robert
said Robert
asked Robert
There was a faint quiver of indignation in Aunt Linda's voice, as she
replied
asked Robert
replied Robert
The next day, Robert, accompanied by Iola, went to the settlement to
take supper with Aunt Linda, and a very luscious affair it was. Her
fingers had not lost their skill since she had tasted the sweets of
freedom. Her biscuits were just as light and flaky as ever. Her jelly
was as bright as amber, and her preserves were perfectly delicious.
After she had set the table she stood looking in silent admiration,
chuckling to herself
Aunt Linda had invited Uncle Daniel, and, wishing to give him a pleasant
surprise, she had refrained from telling him that Robert Johnson was the
one she wished him to meet
said Aunt Linda to Uncle Daniel, when the
latter arrived
Uncle Daniel looked puzzled and, slowly scanning Robert's features,
said
replied Aunt Linda
exclaimed Uncle
Daniel, delightedly
asked Robert,
laughingly
replied Robert
As he spoke
he turned to Iola
said Uncle Daniel, looking intently at Iola as she stepped
forward and cordially gave him her hand
continued Robert
interrupted Robert
said Iola, laughing
said Robert, smiling
Just then Aunt Linda, who had been completing the preparations for her
supper, entered the room with her husband, and said
exclaimed Robert, rising, and shaking hands
replied Salters
pursued Robert
said Robert, turning the conversation toward him
said Aunt Linda
broke in Salters
said Aunt Linda
asked Robert
said Iola
asked Aunt Linda
replied Salters
said Iola
said Aunt Linda
Aunt Linda sat at the table in such a flutter of excitement that she
could hardly eat, but she gazed with intense satisfaction on her guests.
Robert sat on her right hand, contrasting Aunt Linda's pleasant
situation with the old days in Mrs. Johnson's kitchen, where he had
played his pranks upon her, and told her the news of the war.

Over Iola there stole a spirit of restfulness. There was something so
motherly in Aunt Linda's manner that it seemed to recall the bright,
sunshiny days when she used to nestle in Mam Liza's arms, in her own
happy home. The conversation was full of army reminiscences and
recollections of the days of slavery. Uncle Daniel was much interested,
and, as they rose from the table, exclaimed
After the supper, Salters and his guests returned to the front room,
which Aunt Linda regarded with so much pride, and on which she bestowed
so much care
said Salters
replied Robert
interrupted Salters. I'se only Andrews wen I
gits my money
continued Robert
said Salters
assented Robert
said Iola
said Salters
interposed Aunt Linda
said Robert
said Aunt Linda
said Uncle Daniel
said Salters
said Robert
said Salters
Salters looked admiringly at his grandson, who sat grinning in the
corner, munching a pear he had brought from the table
said Aunt Linda
said Salters
said Iola
said Salters, turning to his grandson
exclaimed Aunt Linda
said Salters
said Iola, smiling
was Salter's reply
said Aunt Linda
answered Robert
Iola laughed. The homely enjoyment of that evening was very welcome to
her after the trying scenes through which she had passed. Further
conversation was interrupted by the appearance of the wagon, drawn by
two fine mules. John Salters stopped joking his wife to admire his
mules
he said
said Uncle Daniel
continued Salters
asked Iola
Just then Linda came to the door with her baskets
It was a lovely evening for the journey. The air was soft and balmy. The
fields and hedges were redolent with flowers. Not a single cloud
obscured the brightness of the moon or the splendor of the stars. The
ancient trees were festooned with moss, which hung like graceful
draperies. Ever and anon a startled hare glided over the path, and
whip-poor-wills and crickets broke the restful silence of the night.
Robert rode quietly along, quaffing the beauty of the scene and thinking
of his boyish days, when he gathered nuts and wild plums in those woods;
he also indulged pleasant reminiscences of later years, when, with Uncle
Daniel and Tom Anderson, he attended the secret prayer-meetings. Iola
rode along, conversing with Aunt Linda, amused and interested at the
quaintness of her speech and the shrewdness of her intellect. To her the
ride was delightful
asked Aunt Linda, as they passed an
old resort
replied Robert
responded Robert
replied Robert
said Robert
queried John, suddenly rousing up at the
mention of his name
said Iola, who had been
quietly listening to and enjoying the conversation
was John's
plucky response
was Aunt Linda's parting shot
she
continued
said Robert
exclaimed Robert
interposed Iola
asked Robert
asked Iola
pursued Iola
added Robert
said Aunt Linda
observed Iola
cried John
said Aunt Linda
Thus discoursing they had beguiled the long hours of the night and made
their long journey appear short.

Very soon they reached the church, a neat, commodious, frame building,
with a blue ceiling, white walls within and without, and large windows
with mahogany-colored facings. It was a sight full of pathetic interest
to see that group which gathered from miles around. They had come to
break bread with each other, relate their experiences, and tell of their
hopes of heaven. In that meeting were remnants of broken
families -- mothers who had been separated from their children before the
war, husbands who had not met their wives for years. After the bread had
been distributed and the handshaking was nearly over, Robert raised the
hymn which Iola had sung for him when he was recovering from his wounds,
and Iola, with her clear, sweet tones, caught up the words and joined
him in the strain. When the hymn was finished a dear old mother rose
from her seat. Her voice was quite strong. With still a lingering light
and fire in her eye, she said
came from a number of voices
exclaimed a chorus of voices. Some of her hearers moaned,
others rocked to and fro, as thoughts of similar scenes in their own
lives arose before them
continued the speaker
Having finished her speech, she sat down and wiped away the tears that
flowed all the more copiously as she remembered her lost children. When
she rose to speak her voice and manner instantly arrested Robert's
attention. He found his mind reverting to the scenes of his childhood.
As she proceeded his attention became riveted on her. Unbidden tears
filled his eyes and great sobs shook his frame. He trembled in every
limb. Could it be possible that after years of patient search through
churches, papers, and inquiring friends, he had accidentally stumbled on
his mother -- the mother who, long years ago, had pillowed his head upon
her bosom and left her parting kiss upon his lips? How should he reveal
himself to her? Might not sudden joy do what years of sorrow had failed
to accomplish? Controlling his feelings as best he could, he rose to
tell his experience. He referred to the days when they used to hold
their meetings in the lonely woods and gloomy swamps. How they had
prayed for freedom and plotted to desert to the Union army; and
continuing, he said
Again there was a chorus of moans.

On resuming, Robert's voice was still fuller of pathos
he said
The dear old mother raised her eyes. They were clear and tearless. An
expression of wonder, hope, and love flitted over her face. It seemed as
if her youth were suddenly renewed and, bounding from her seat, she
rushed to the speaker in a paroxysm of joy
And overflowing with joyous excitement she threw her
arms around him, looking the very impersonation of rapturous content. It
was a happy time. Mothers whose children had been torn from them in the
days of slavery knew how to rejoice in her joy. The young people caught
the infection of the general happiness and rejoiced with them that
rejoiced. There were songs of rejoicing and shouts of praise. The
undertone of sadness which had so often mingled with their songs gave
place to strains of exultation; and tears of tender sympathy flowed from
eyes which had often been blurred by anguish. The child of many prayers
and tears was restored to his mother.

Iola stood by the mother's side, smiling, and weeping tears of joy. When
Robert's mother observed Iola, she said to Robert
replied Robert
said Robert
Tenderly and caressingly Iola bent over the happy mother, with her heart
filled with mournful memories of her own mother.

Aunt Linda was induced to stay until the next morning, and then gladly
assisted Robert's mother in arranging for her journey northward. The
friends who had given her a shelter in their hospitable home, learned to
value her so much that it was with great reluctance they resigned her to
the care of her son. Aunt Linda was full of bustling activity, and her
spirits overflowed with good humor
she said, as they rode along on their return journey
she cried
asked Aunt Linda, as they approached the
settlement
said Robert
A bright smile overspread her face. Robert's words reassured and
gladdened her heart. She was well satisfied to have a pleasant aftermath
from life on this side of the river.

After arriving home Linda's first thought was to prepare dinner for her
guests. But, before she began her work of preparation, she went to the
cupboard to get a cup of home-made wine
she said, filling three glasses
said Robert
said Iola
said Robert
said Iola
added Robert
said his mother, setting down her glass and
leaving the wine unfinished
declared Aunt Linda
replied
Robert
said Robert
said Iola
said Robert,
encouragingly.

Very soon Aunt Linda had an excellent dinner prepared. After it was over
Robert went with Iola to C ----, where her friend, the bishop, was
awaiting her return. She told him the wonderful story of Robert's
finding his mother, and of her sweet, childlike faith.

The bishop, a kind, fatherly man, said
That night Iola and the bishop left for the South
After Iola had left the settlement, accompanied by Robert as far as the
town, it was a pleasant satisfaction for the two old friends to settle
themselves down, and talk of times past, departed friends, and
long-forgotten scenes
said Mrs. Johnson, as we shall call Robert's mother
responded Aunt Linda
said Aunt Linda
exclaimed Robert's mother
said Robert, as he entered the room
Uncle Daniel threw back his head, reached out his hand, and manifested
his joy with
said Uncle Daniel
They chatted together until Job and Salters came home for supper. After
they had eaten, Uncle Daniel said
There, in that peaceful habitation, they knelt down, and mingled their
prayers together, as they had done in by-gone days, when they had met by
stealth in lonely swamps or silent forests.

The next morning Robert and his mother started northward. They were well
supplied with a bountiful luncheon by Aunt Linda, who had so thoroughly
enjoyed their sojourn with her. On the next day he arrived in the city
of P ----, and took his mother to his boarding-house, until he could find
a suitable home into which to install her. He soon came across one which
just suited his taste, but when the agent discovered that Robert's
mother was colored, he told him that the house had been previously
engaged. In company with his mother he looked at several other houses in
desirable neighborhoods, but they were constantly met with the answer
or
At length Robert went alone, and, finding a desirable house, engaged it,
and moved into it. In a short time it was discovered that he was
colored, and, at the behest of the local sentiment of the place, the
landlord used his utmost endeavors to oust him, simply because he
belonged to an unfashionable and unpopular race. At last he came across
a landlord who was broad enough to rent him a good house, and he found a
quiet resting place among a set of well-to-do and well-disposed people
In one of those fearful conflicts by which the Mississippi was freed
from Rebel intrusion and opened to commerce Harry was severely wounded,
and forced to leave his place in the ranks for a bed in the hospital.

One day, as he lay in his bed, thinking of his former home in
Mississippi and wondering if the chances of war would ever restore him
to his loved ones, he fell into a quiet slumber. When he awoke he found
a lady bending over him, holding in her hands some fruit and flowers. As
she tenderly bent over Harry's bed their eyes met, and with a thrill of
gladness they recognized each other
cried Marie, trying to repress her emotion, as she
took his wasted hand in hers, and kissed the pale cheeks that sickness
and suffering had blanched. Harry was very weak, but her presence was a
call to life. He returned the pressure of her hand, kissed it, and his
eyes grew full of sudden light, as he murmured faintly, but joyfully
The effort was too much, and he immediately became unconscious.

Anxious, yet hopeful, Marie sat by the bedside of her son till
consciousness was restored. Caressingly she bent over his couch,
murmuring in her happiness the tenderest, sweetest words of motherly
love. In Harry's veins flowed new life and vigor, calming the
restlessness of his nerves.

As soon as possible Harry was carried to his mother's home; a home
brought into the light of freedom by the victories of General Grant.
Nursed by his mother's tender, loving care, he rapidly recovered, but,
being too disabled to re-enter the army, he was honorably discharged.

Lorraine had taken Marie to Vicksburg, and there allowed her to engage
in confectionery and preserving for the wealthy ladies of the city. He
had at first attempted to refugee with her in Texas, but, being foiled
in the attempt, he was compelled to enlist in the Confederate Army, and
met his fate by being killed just before the surrender of Vicksburg
Marie would say, as she bent fondly over him
Time passed on. Harry and his mother searched and inquired for Iola, but
no tidings of her reached them.

Having fully recovered his health, and seeing the great need of
education for the colored people, Harry turned his attention toward
them, and joined the new army of Northern teachers.

He still continued his inquiries for his sister, not knowing whether or
not she had succumbed to the cruel change in her life. He thought she
might have passed into the white basis for the sake of bettering her
fortunes. Hope deferred, which had sickened his mother's heart, had
only roused him to renewed diligence.

A school was offered him in Georgia, and thither he repaired, taking his
mother with him. They were soon established in the city of A ----. In
hope of finding Iola he visited all the conferences of the Methodist
Church, but for a long time his search was in vain
said Harry, one day during his vacation
burst out Marie, as the tears gathered in her eyes
said Harry, kissing the pale cheek of his mother
was Marie's tender
parting wish.

Early next morning Harry started for the conference, and reached the
church before the morning session was over. Near him sat two ladies, one
fair, the other considerably darker. There was something in the fairer
one that reminded him forcibly of his sister, but she was much older and
graver than he imagined his sister to be. Instantly he dismissed the
thought that had forced itself into his mind, and began to listen
attentively to the proceedings of the conference.

When the regular business of the morning session was over the bishop
arose and said
exclaimed a young man, rising in the midst of the audience, and
pressing eagerly, almost impetuously, forward
Iola raised her eyes to his face, so flushed and bright with the glow of
recognition, rushed to him, threw her arms around his neck, kissed him
again and again, crying
Then she fainted from excitement.
The women gathered around her with expressions of tender sympathy, and
gave her all the care she needed. They called her the
for
without any effort on her part she had slidden into their hearts and
found a ready welcome in each sympathizing bosom.

Harry at once telegraphed the glad tidings to his mother, who waited
their coming with joyful anticipation. Long before the cars reached the
city, Mrs. Leroy was at the depot, restlessly walking the platform or
eagerly peering into the darkness to catch the first glimpse of the
train which was bearing her treasures.

At length the cars arrived, and, as Harry and Iola alighted, Marie
rushed forward, clasped Iola in her arms and sobbed out her joy in
broken words.

Very happy was the little family that sat together around the
supper-table for the first time for years. They partook of that supper
with thankful hearts and with eyes overflowing with tears of joy. Very
touching were the prayers the mother uttered, when she knelt with her
children that night to return thanks for their happy reunion, and to
seek protection through the slumbers of the night.

The next morning, as they sat at the breakfast-table, Marie said
said Harry
asked Iola, as a faint sigh escaped her lips
said Harry
said Iola
and as she continued her face assumed a brighter look
said Marie, in a questioning tone
continued Iola, with eyes full of gladness
exclaimed Marie, in astonishment
said Marie, with a sigh, as memories of the past swept
over her
continued Iola
Very bright and happy was the home where Marie and her children were
gathered under one roof. Mrs. Leroy's neighbors said she looked ten
years younger. Into that peaceful home came no fearful forebodings of
cruel separations. Harry and Iola were passionately devoted to their
mother, and did all they could to flood her life with sunshine
said Harry, one morning at the breakfast-table
asked Iola, assuming an air of interest
said Iola
replied Harry
said Mrs. Leroy, smiling
replied Harry, looking slightly confused
said Iola, amused
continued Harry
interrupted Iola
said Iola
said Iola
responded Harry
In the evening Harry brought Miss Delany to call on his sister and
mother. They were much pleased with their visitor. Her manner was a
combination of suavity and dignity. During the course of the evening
they learned that she was a graduate of the University of A ----. One day
she saw in the newspapers that colored women were becoming unfit to be
servants for white people. She then thought that if they are not fit to
be servants for white people, they are unfit to be mothers to their own
children, and she conceived the idea of opening a school to train future
wives and mothers. She began on a small scale, in a humble building,
and her work was soon crowned with gratifying success. She had enlarged
her quarters, increased her teaching force, and had erected a large and
commodious school-house through her own exertions and the help of
others.

Marie cordially invited her to call again, saying, as she rose to go
said Miss Delany
Very pleasant was the acquaintance which sprang up between Miss Delany
and Iola. Although she was older than Iola, their tastes were so
congenial, their views of life and duty in such unison, that their
acquaintance soon ripened into strong and lasting friendship. There were
no foolish rivalries and jealousies between them. Their lives were too
full of zeal and earnestness for them to waste in selfishness their
power to be moral and spiritual forces among a people who so much needed
their helping hands. Miss Delany gave Iola a situation in her school;
but before the term was quite over she was force to resign, her health
having been so undermined by the fearful strain through which she had
passed, that she was quite unequal to the task. She remained at home,
and did what her strength would allow in assisting her mother in the
work of canning and preserving fruits.

In the meantime, Iola had been corresponding with Robert. She had told
him of her success in finding her mother and brother, and had received
an answer congratulating her on the glad fruition of her hopes. He also
said that his business was flourishing, that his mother was keeping
house for him, and, to use her own expression, was as happy as the days
are long. She was firmly persuaded that Marie was her daughter, and she
wanted to see her before she died
continued the letter
said Marie
Iola wrote Robert that her mother remembered the incident of the
handkerchief, and was anxious to see them.

In the early fall Robert started for the South in order to clear up all
doubts with respect to their relationship. He found Iola, Harry, and
their mother living cosily together. Harry was teaching and was a leader
among the rising young men of the State. His Northern education and
later experience had done much toward adapting him to the work of the
new era which had dawned upon the South.

Marie was very glad to welcome Robert to her home, but it was almost
impossible to recognize her brother in that tall, handsome man, with
dark-brown eyes and wealth of chestnut-colored hair, which he readily
lifted to show the crimson spot which lay beneath it.

But as they sat together, and recalled the long-forgotten scenes of
their childhood, they concluded that they were brother and sister
said Robert
Harry then entered the room, and, being introduced to Robert, gave him a
cordial welcome. He had just returned from school
said Marie
asked Harry
asked Robert
replied Harry
As he spoke Robert gazed admiringly on the young face, lit up by noble
purposes and lofty enthusiasm
said Marie
In a few days, with many prayers and tears, Marie, half reluctantly,
permitted Iola to start for the North in company with Robert Johnson,
intending to follow as soon as she could settle her business and see
Harry in a good boarding place.

Very joyful was the greeting of the dear grandmother. Iola soon nestled
in her heart and lent additional sunshine to her once checkered life,
and Robert, who had so long been robbed of kith and kin, was delighted
with the new accession to his home life
said Iola, after she had been North several weeks
said Robert
responded Iola
That morning Iola applied for the situation, and, being prepossessing in
her appearance, she obtained it.

For awhile everything went as pleasantly as a marriage bell. But one day
a young colored lady, well-dressed and well-bred in her manner, entered
the store. It was an acquaintance which Iola had formed in the colored
church which she attended. Iola gave her a few words of cordial
greeting, and spent a few moments chatting with her. The attention of
the girls who sold at the same counter was attracted, and their
suspicion awakened. Iola was a stranger in that city. Who was she, and
who were her people? At last it was decided that one of the girls should
act as a spy, and bring what information she could concerning Iola.

The spy was successful. She found out that Iola was living in a good
neighborhood, but that none of the neighbors knew her. The man of the
house was very fair, but there was an old woman whom Iola called
and she was unmistakably colored. The story was sufficient.
If that were true, Iola must be colored, and she should be treated
accordingly.

Without knowing the cause, Iola noticed a chill in the social atmosphere
of the store, which communicated itself to the cash-boys, and they
treated her so insolently that her situation became very uncomfortable.
She saw the proprietor, resigned her position, and asked for and
obtained a letter of recommendation to another merchant who had
advertised for a saleswoman.

In applying for the place, she took the precaution to inform her
employer that she was colored. It made no difference to him; but he
said
Iola smiled, did not promise, and accepted the situation. She entered
upon her duties, and proved quite acceptable as a saleswoman.

One day, during an interval in business, the girls began to talk of
their respective churches, and the question was put to Iola
she replied
Here the interrogator stopped, and looked surprised and pained, and
almost instinctively moved a little farther from her. After the store
was closed, the girls had an animated discussion, which resulted in the
information being sent to Mr. Cohen that Iola was a colored girl, and
that they protested against her being continued in his employ. Mr. Cohen
yielded to the pressure, and informed Iola that her services were no
longer needed.

When Robert came home in the evening, he found that Iola had lost her
situation, and was looking somewhat discouraged
she said
replied Robert, thoughtfully
said Iola
exclaimed Robert, laughing heartily.

As Iola wished to try the world for herself, and so be prepared for any
emergency, her uncle and grandmother were content to have her go to New
England. The town to which she journeyed was only a few hours' ride from
the city of P ----, and Robert, knowing that there is no teacher like
experience, was willing that Iola should have the benefit of her
teaching.

Iola, on arriving in H ----, sought the firm, and was informed that her
services were needed. She found it a pleasant and lucrative position.
There was only one drawback -- her boarding place was too far from her
work. There was an institution conducted by professed Christian women,
which was for the special use of respectable young working girls. This
was in such a desirable location that she called at the house to engage
board.

The matron conducted her over the house, and grew so friendly in the
interview that she put her arm around her, and seemed to look upon Iola
as a desirable accession to the home. But, just as Iola was leaving, she
said to the matron
Swift as light a change passed over the face of the matron. She withdrew
her arm from Iola, and said
When the board met, Iola's case was put before them, but they decided
not to receive her. And these women, professors of a religion which
taught
virtually shut
the door in her face because of the outcast blood in her veins.

Considerable feeling was aroused by the action of these women, who, to
say the least, had not put their religion in the most favorable light.

Iola continued to work for the firm until she received letters from her
mother and uncle, which informed her that her mother, having arranged
her affairs in the South, was ready to come North. She then resolved to
return, to the city of P ----, to be ready to welcome her mother on her
arrival.

Iola arrived in time to see that everything was in order for her
mother's reception. Her room was furnished neatly, but with those
touches of beauty that womanly hands are such adepts in giving. A few
charming pictures adorned the walls, and an easy chair stood waiting to
receive the travel-worn mother. Robert and Iola met her at the depot;
and grandma was on her feet at the first sound of the bell, opened the
door, clasped Marie to her heart, and nearly fainted for joy
she exclaimed.

It did seem almost impossible to realize that this faded woman, with
pale cheeks and prematurely whitened hair, was the rosy-cheeked child
from whom she had been parted more than thirty years
said Robert, after the first joyous greeting was over
said Mrs. Johnson.

After Marie had gone to her room and changed her dress, she came down
and partook of the delicious repast which her mother and Iola had
prepared for her.

In a few days Marie was settled in the home, and was well pleased with
the change. The only drawback to her happiness was the absence of her
son, and she expected him to come North after the closing of his school
said Iola, after her mother had been with them several
weeks
asked Robert
said Marie, anxiously
said Robert
said her mother
A troubled look stole over Marie's face. She sighed faintly, but made no
remonstrance. And so it was decided that Iola should apply for the
situation.

Iola made application, and was readily accepted. Her patient was a frail
girl of fifteen summers, who was ill with a low fever. Iola nursed her
carefully, and soon had the satisfaction of seeing her restored to
health. During her stay, Mr. Cloten, the father of the invalid, had
learned some of the particulars of Iola's Northern experience as a
bread-winner, and he resolved to give her employment in his store when
her services were no longer needed in the house. As soon as a vacancy
occurred he gave Iola a place in his store.

The morning she entered on her work he called his employes together, and
told them that Miss Iola had colored blood in her veins, but that he was
going to employ her and give her a desk. If any one objected to working
with her, he or she could step to the cashier's desk and receive what
was due. Not a man remonstrated, not a woman demurred; and Iola at last
found a place in the great army of bread-winners, which the traditions
of her blood could not affect
asked Mrs. Cloten of her husband, when he
returned to dinner
said Mrs. Cloten
said Mrs. Cloten
said a cheery voice in tones of glad
surprise, and, intercepting her path, Dr Gresham stood before Iola,
smiling, and reaching out his hand
said Iola, lifting her eyes to that
well-remembered face
Iola hesitated, and then replied
They walked together a short distance till they reached Mr. Cloten's
store; then, bidding the doctor good morning, Iola left him repeating to
himself the words of his favorite poet
No one noticed the deep flush on Iola's face as she entered the store,
nor the subdued, quiet manner with which she applied herself to her
tasks. She was living over again the past, with its tender, sad, and
thrilling reminiscences.

In the evening Dr Gresham called on Iola. She met him with a pleasant
welcome. Dr Gresham gazed upon her with unfeigned admiration, and
thought that the years, instead of detracting from, had only
intensified, her loveliness. He had thought her very beautiful in the
hospital, in her gray dress and white collar, with her glorious wealth
of hair drawn over her ears. But now, when he saw her with that hair
artistically arranged, and her finely-proportioned form arrayed in a
dark crimson dress, relieved by a shimmer of lace and a bow of white
ribbon at her throat, he thought her superbly handsome. The lines which
care had written upon her young face had faded away. There was no
undertone of sorrow in her voice as she stood up before him in the calm
loveliness of her ripened womanhood, radiant in beauty and gifted in
intellect. Time and failing health had left their traces upon Dr.
Gresham. His step was less bounding, his cheek a trifle paler, his
manner somewhat graver than it was when he had parted from Iola in the
hospital, but his meeting with her had thrilled his heart with
unexpected pleasure. Hopes and sentiments which long had slept awoke at
the touch of her hand and the tones of her voice, and Dr Gresham found
himself turning to the past, with its sad memories and disappointed
hopes. No other face had displaced her image in his mind; no other love
had woven itself around every tendril of his soul. His heart and hand
were just as free as they were the hour they had parted
said Dr Gresham
said Iola, smiling
said Iola, with a joyous ring in her voice
she said, and left the room. Iola soon returned, bringing
with her her mother and grandmother
said Iola, introducing her mother and grandmother
continued Iola, as Robert entered the room.

Dr Gresham looked scrutinizingly at him and said
said Robert Johnson
replied Dr Gresham
said Robert
said Robert, bending fondly
over her, as she returned his recognition with an expression of intense
satisfaction
he continued
said Iola
said Dr Gresham
said Iola
asked Robert
said Robert
said Dr Gresham
said Mrs. Leroy
continued Dr Gresham
said Mrs. Leroy
said Robert
said Dr Gresham
said Marie
said Robert
answered Dr Gresham
said Iola, decidedly
said Dr Gresham, looking somewhat puzzled
continued Iola
replied the doctor
continued Iola
said Mrs. Leroy, her face aglow with fervid feeling
said Robert
said Iola
Dr Gresham gazed admiringly upon Iola. A glow of enthusiasm overspread
her beautiful, expressive face. There was a rapt and far-off look in her
eye, as if she were looking beyond the present pain to a brighter
future for the race with which she was identified, and felt the
grandeur of a divine commission to labor for its uplifting.

As Dr Gresham was parting with Robert, he said
said the
doctor, as he left the door.

When Robert returned to the parlor he said to Iola
said Iola
asked Robert
said Robert
In the evening Robert and Rev. Carmicle called on Dr Gresham, and found
Dr Latrobe, the Southerner, and a young doctor by the name of Latimer,
already there. Dr Gresham introduced Dr Latrobe, but it was a new
experience to receive colored men socially. His wits, however, did not
forsake him, and he received the introduction and survived it
said Dr Gresham
replied Dr Latrobe
asked Dr Gresham
replied Dr Latrobe
inquired Rev. Carmicle
A slight shade of vexation and astonishment passed over the face of Dr.
Latrobe. He hesitated a moment, then replied
asked Robert
said Dr Gresham
said Rev. Carmicle
replied Dr Latrobe
asked Dr Gresham
asked Dr Gresham
said Dr Latimer
said Robert
said Dr Gresham
said Dr Latimer
said Dr Gresham
said Dr Latrobe
said Dr Gresham, flushing, and rising to his feet
said Rev. Carmicle
continued Dr Gresham
said Robert, bitterly
said Dr Gresham, compassionately
said Dr Latrobe, emphatically
said Rev. Carmicle
said Dr Latrobe
said Rev. Carmicle
asked Dr Latrobe
replied Rev. Carmicle
said Dr Gresham
said Dr Gresham
said Dr Latrobe
said Dr Gresham, thoughtfully
said Rev. Carmicle
After Robert and Rev. Carmicle had left the hotel, Drs. Latimer,
Gresham, and Latrobe sat silent and thoughtful awhile, when Dr Gresham
broke the silence by asking Dr Latrobe how he had enjoyed the evening
he replied
replied Dr Latrobe
asked Dr Gresham
said Dr Latrobe
replied Dr Gresham
asked Dr Latimer
replied Dr Latrobe
said Dr Gresham
said Dr Latrobe, proudly
said Dr Latimer
said Dr Latrobe
asked Dr Latimer, bitterly
said Dr Latimer
said Dr Gresham
exclaimed Dr Latrobe, vehemently
said Dr Latimer
replied Dr Latrobe, wearily
asked Dr Gresham
Dr Latimer smiled at Dr Latrobe's assertion, but did not attempt to
refute it; and bade him good-night
said Dr Latrobe
said Dr Gresham
said Latrobe
replied Dr Gresham
On the eve of his departure from the city of P ----, Dr Gresham called
on Iola, and found her alone. They talked awhile of reminiscences of the
war and hospital life, when Dr Gresham, approaching Iola, said
Clasping her hand in
his, he continued
Dr.
Gresham looked eagerly on Iola's face, and tried to read its varying
expression
she replied, sadly, but firmly, as she withdrew her hand from
his
asked Dr Gresham, anxiously
exclaimed Dr Gresham, indignantly
continued Iola
exclaimed Dr Gresham, vehemently
asked Iola
she replied, gently
he replied, anxiously
he replied
he exclaimed, passionately
replied Iola
he asked, sadly
she replied, tenderly but firmly
he replied
As he rose to go, sympathy, love, and admiration were blended in the
parting look he gave her; but he felt it was useless to attempt to
divert her from her purpose. He knew that for the true reconstruction of
the country something more was needed than bayonets and bullets, or the
schemes of selfish politicians or plotting demagogues. He knew that the
South needed the surrender of the best brain and heart of the country to
build, above the wastes of war, more stately temples of thought and
action
On the morning previous to their departure for their respective homes,
Dr Gresham met Dr Latrobe in the parlor of the Concordia
asked Dr Gresham
replied Dr Gresham
Just then Dr Latimer entered the room. Dr Latrobe arose and, greeting
him cordially, said
answered Dr Latimer
replied Dr Latrobe
said Dr Gresham
said Dr Latimer
answered Dr Latrobe
asked Dr Latimer, steadily looking him in the eye
asked Dr.
Latrobe, curtly
replied Dr Latimer, proudly raising his head
exclaimed Dr Latrobe, with an air of profound astonishment and
crimsoning face
interposed Dr Gresham, laughing heartily at Dr Latrobe's
discomfiture
said Dr Latimer
said Dr Latrobe, rising
Dr Latrobe had thought he was clear-sighted enough to detect the
presence of negro blood when all physical traces had disappeared. But he
had associated with Dr Latimer for several days, and admired his
talent, without suspecting for one moment his racial connection. He
could not help feeling a sense of vexation at the signal mistake he had
made.

Dr Frank Latimer was the natural grandson of a Southern lady, in whose
family his mother had been a slave. The blood of a proud aristocratic
ancestry was flowing through his veins, and generations of blood
admixture had effaced all trace of his negro lineage. His complexion was
blonde, his eye bright and piercing, his lips firm and well moulded; his
manner very affable; his intellect active and well stored with
information. He was a man capable of winning in life through his rich
gifts of inheritance and acquirements. When freedom came, his mother,
like Hagar of old, went out into the wide world to seek a living for
herself and child. Through years of poverty she labored to educate her
child, and saw the glad fruition of her hopes when her son graduated as
an M.D. from the University of P ----.

After his graduation he met his father's mother, who recognized him by
his resemblance to her dear, departed son. All the mother love in her
lonely heart awoke, and she was willing to overlook
and adopt him as her heir, if he would ignore his identity
with the colored race.

Before him loomed all the possibilities which only birth and blood can
give a white man in our Democratic country. But he was a man of too much
sterling worth of character to be willing to forsake his mother's race
for the richest advantages his grandmother could bestow.

Dr Gresham had met Dr Latimer at the beginning of the convention, and
had been attracted to him by his frank and genial manner. One morning,
when conversing with him, Dr Gresham had learned some of the salient
points of his history, which, instead of repelling him, had only
deepened his admiration for the young doctor. He was much amused when he
saw the pleasant acquaintanceship between him and Dr Latrobe, but they
agreed to be silent about his racial connection until the time came when
they were ready to divulge it; and they were hugely delighted at his
signal blunder
said Iola to Robert
In the evening the doctor called. Without appearing to make a
professional visit he engaged Marie in conversation, watched her
carefully, and came to the conclusion that her failing health proceeded
more from mental than physical causes
said Mrs. Leroy
Just then Iola came in and was introduced by her uncle to Dr Latimer,
to whom the introduction was a sudden and unexpected pleasure.

After an interchange of courtesies, Marie resumed the conversation,
saying
said Dr Latimer, indignantly
answered Marie
said Mrs. Leroy
Dr Latimer laughed, as he answered
exclaimed Iola, with pleasing excitement
replied Dr.
Latimer
answered Iola, smiling
asked Dr Latimer, slowly,
and with a smile in his eyes
said Iola, faintly
blushing
said Robert, a few evenings after this conversation, as he
handed Iola a couple of letters
Iola took the letters, and, after reading one of them, said
asked Marie
said Iola
asked Robert
answered Iola, seriously
answered Robert
replied Marie
said Robert
replied Marie
On Dr Latimer's next visit he was much pleased to see a great change in
Marie's appearance. Her eye had grown brighter, her step more elastic,
and the anxiety had faded from her face. Harry had arrived, and with him
came Miss Delany
said Iola, cheerily, as she entered the
room with Miss Lucille Delany
said Dr Latimer, cordially
he added,
with a smile.

Just then Harry entered the room, and Iola presented him to Dr Latimer,
saying
asked Dr Latimer, after the first
greetings were over
answered Miss Delany
said Harry
said Dr Latimer
said Miss Delany
On the following Friday evening, Mr. Stillman's pleasant, spacious
parlors were filled to overflowing with a select company of earnest men
and women deeply interested in the welfare of the race.

Bishop Tunster had prepared a paper on
Dr Latimer
opened the discussion by speaking favorably of some of the salient
points, but said
replied Bishop Tunster, in his bluff, hearty tones
repeated Professor Langhorne, of Georgia
said Professor Gradnor, of North
Carolina
said Mr. Stillman
said Miss Delany
said Professor Gradnor
replied Dr Latimer
said Mr. Forest, a tall, distinguished-looking
gentleman from New York
said Hon. Dugdale
asked Professor Langhorne
said Miss Delany
said Professor Langhorne
said Iola
The next paper was on
by Rev. Cantnor. It was a paper in
which the white man was extolled as the master race, and spoke as if it
were a privilege for the colored man to be linked to his destiny and to
live beneath the shadow of his power. He asserted that the white race of
this country is the broadest, most Christian, and humane of that branch
of the human family.

Dr Latimer took exception to his position
he said
said Professor Gradnor
said Miss Delany
said Iola, "sends regrets that she
cannot come, but has kindly favored us with a poem, called the
In her letter she says that, although she is no longer young, she
feels that in the conflict for the right there's room for young as well
as old. She hopes that we will here unite the enthusiasm of youth with
the experience of age, and that we will have a pleasant and profitable
conference. Is it your pleasure that the poem be read at this stage of
our proceedings, or later on
answered Harry
said Iola, smiling, and handing the poem to Miss
Delany.

Miss Delany took the poem and read it with fine effect. The spirit of
the poem had entered her soul.

              A RALLYING CRY.

    Oh, children of the tropics,
           Amid our pain and wrong
    Have you no other mission
           Than music, dance, and song?

    When through the weary ages
           Our dripping tears still fall,
    Is this a time to dally
           With pleasure's silken thrall?

    Go, muffle all your viols;
           As heroes learn to stand,
    With faith in God's great justice
           Nerve every heart and hand.

    Dream not of ease nor pleasure,
           Nor honor, wealth, nor fame,
    Till from the dust you've lifted
           Our long-dishonored name;

    And crowned that name with glory
           By deeds of holy worth,
    To shine with light emblazoned,
           The noblest name on earth.

    Count life a dismal failure,
           Unblessing and unblest,
    That seeks 'mid ease inglorious
           For pleasure or for rest.

    With courage, strength, and valor
           Your lives and actions brace;
    Shrink not from toil or hardship,
           And dangers bravely face.

    Engrave upon your banners,
           In words of golden light,
    That honor, truth, and justice
           Are more than godless might.

    Above earth's pain and sorrow
           Christ's dying face I see;
    I hear the cry of anguish
In the pallor of that anguish
           I see the only light,
    To flood with peace and gladness
           Earth's sorrow, pain, and night.

    Arrayed in Christly armor
           'Gainst error, crime, and sin,
    The victory can't be doubtful,
           For God is sure to win.

The next paper was by Miss Iola Leroy, on the
said Rev. Eustace, of St. Mary's parish
added Miss Delany, quickly
interposed Iola, tenderly
said Miss Delany, with a flash in her eye and a ring of
decision in her voice
As she spoke, there was an expression which seemed to say
Harry smiled, and gave her a quick glance of admiration
said Mrs. Stillman
said Mrs. Leroy, "that after the war we were thrown upon the
nation a homeless race to be gathered into homes, and a legally
unmarried race to be taught the sacredness of the marriage relation. We
must instill into our young people that the true strength of a race
means purity in women and uprightness in men; who can say, with Sir
Galahad:--

    'My strength is the strength of ten,
       Because my heart is pure.'

And where this is wanting neither wealth nor culture can make up the
deficiency
said Miss Delany
said Rev. Eustace
said Iola
replied Dr Latimer
The closing paper was on the
by Hon.
Dugdale. He said
answered Professor Langhorne, of Georgia
said Mr. Forest
said Dr Latimer
said Rev. Cantnor
said Miss Delany, hopefully
said Iola
said Mrs. Leroy
continued Iola
As Iola finished, there was a ring of triumph in her voice, as if she
were reviewing a path she had trodden with bleeding feet, and seen it
change to lines of living light. Her soul seemed to be flashing through
the rare loveliness of her face and etherealizing its beauty.

Every one was spell-bound. Dr Latimer was entranced, and, turning to
Hon. Dugdale, said, in a low voice and with deep-drawn breath
Hon. Dugdale turned, gave a questioning look, then replied
Just then Rev. Carmicle was announced. He had been on a Southern tour,
and had just returned
exclaimed Mrs. Stillman
replied Rev. Carmicle
answered Mrs. Stillman
said Rev. Carmicle, smiling
interposed Mr. Forest, of New York
said Rev. Carmicle
asked Hon. Dugdale
asked Mr. Forest
said Bishop Tunster
answered Rev. Carmicle
said Dr Latimer
replied Rev. Carmicle
asked Robert, as they walked
homeward
answered Marie
said Robert
said Marie
said Iola, as they walked home from the _conversazione_
asked Dr Latimer
replied Iola
asked Dr Latimer, in a surprised tone
answered Iola
he modestly replied
said Iola
replied Dr Latimer
A startled look stole over Iola's face, and, lifting her eyes to his,
she faltered
she responded, demurely; then she quickly turned and tripped up the
steps of her home, which she had just reached.

After this conversation Dr Latimer became a frequent visitor at Iola's
home, and a firm friend of her brother. Harry was at that age when, for
the young and inexperienced, vice puts on her fairest guise and most
seductive smiles. Dr Latimer's wider knowledge and larger experience
made his friendship for Harry very valuable, and the service he rendered
him made him a favorite and ever-welcome guest in the family
asked Robert, one night, as he entered the cosy
little parlor where Iola sat reading
answered Iola
she added, significantly
said Robert,
laughing
said Iola, smiling and flushing
said Robert
he added, looking fondly on the
beautiful face of his niece, which sorrow had touched only to chisel
into more loveliness
answered Iola, with unaffected truthfulness
answered Robert, smiling archly
continued Iola
said Robert
said Iola
answered Iola
said Robert, laying his hand caressingly upon her head
answered Iola, half reproachfully
asked Robert
replied Robert, significantly, as he left the room.

Iola's admiration for Dr Latimer was not a one-sided affair. Day after
day she was filling a larger place in his heart. The touch of her hand
thrilled him with emotion. Her lightest words were an entrancing melody
to his ear. Her noblest sentiments found a response in his heart. In
their desire to help the race their hearts beat in loving unison. One
grand and noble purpose was giving tone and color to their lives and
strengthening the bonds of affection between them
Harry's vacation had been very pleasant. Miss Delany, with her fine
conversational powers and ready wit, had added much to his enjoyment.
Robert had given his mother the pleasantest room in the house, and in
the evening the family would gather around her, tell her the news of the
day, read to her from the Bible, join with her in thanksgiving for
mercies received and in prayer for protection through the night. Harry
was very grateful to Dr Latimer for the kindly interest he had shown in
accompanying Miss Delany and himself to places of interest and
amusement. He was grateful, too, that in the city of P ---- doors were
open to them which were barred against them in the South.

The bright, beautiful days of summer were gliding into autumn, with its
glorious wealth of foliage, and the time was approaching for the
departure of Harry and Miss Delany to their respective schools, when Dr.
Latimer received several letters from North Carolina, urging him to come
South, as physicians were greatly needed there. Although his practice
was lucrative in the city of P ----, he resolved he would go where his
services were most needed.

A few evenings before he started he called at the house, and made an
engagement to drive Iola to the park.

At the time appointed he drove up to the door in his fine equipage.
Iola stepped gracefully in and sat quietly by his side to enjoy the
loveliness of the scenery and the gorgeous grandeur of the setting sun
said Dr Latimer, as he drove slowly along
said Iola, assuming an air of interest, while a shadow
flitted over her face
he answered
she exclaimed
asked Iola, innocently
replied Iola, drawing a long breath
again asked Iola
modestly responded Iola
replied Dr Latimer
added Iola, smiling
said Dr Latimer, passionately
A sober expression swept over Iola's face, and, dropping her eyes, she
said
Quietly they rode along the river bank until Dr Latimer broke the
silence by saying
she replied
replied Dr Latimer
she answered
responded Iola, feelingly
he
replied
he added, with a merry
twinkle in his eyes
said Iola, laughing
replied Dr Latimer, with affected gravity
asked Iola, laughing
responded Dr Latimer, seriously
exclaimed Iola
replied Dr Latimer
asked Iola.

Tying his horse, he accompanied Iola into the parlor. Seating himself
near her, he poured into her ears words eloquent with love and
tenderness
he said
His words were more than a tender strain wooing her to love and
happiness, they were a clarion call to a life of high and holy worth, a
call which found a response in her heart. Her hand lay limp in his. She
did not withdraw it, but, raising her lustrous eyes to his, she softly
answered
After he had gone, Iola sat by the window, gazing at the splendid stars,
her heart quietly throbbing with a delicious sense of joy and love. She
had admired Dr Gresham and, had there been no barrier in her way, she
might have learned to love him; but Dr Latimer had grown irresistibly
upon her heart. There were depths in her nature that Dr Gresham had
never fathomed; aspirations in her soul with which he had never mingled.
But as the waves leap up to the strand, so her soul went out to Dr.
Latimer. Between their lives were no impeding barriers, no inclination
impelling one way and duty compelling another. Kindred hopes and tastes
had knit their hearts; grand and noble purposes were lighting up their
lives; and they esteemed it a blessed privilege to stand on the
threshold of a new era and labor for those who had passed from the old
oligarchy of slavery into the new commonwealth of freedom.

On the next evening, Dr Latimer rang the bell and was answered by
Harry, who ushered him into the parlor, and then came back to the
sitting-room, saying
answered Iola, a glad light coming into her eyes
interposed Harry, shrugging his shoulders and catching
Lucille's hand
said Iola
said
Harry
interposed Miss Delany.
Yet she stayed with Harry
said Dr Latimer to Iola, as she
entered
she replied
he answered, seating himself beside her, and
drawing her to him
she replied
responded Dr Latimer, musingly
The flush deepened on her face, a mournful splendor beamed from her
beautiful eyes, into which the tears had slowly gathered
he said, his voice vibrating with mingled feelings of
tenderness and resentment
he added, in a
painful tone
replied Dr Latimer, thoughtfully
said Dr Latimer
Dr Latimer went South, after his engagement, and through his medical
skill and agreeable manners became very successful in his practice. In
the following summer, he built a cosy home for the reception of his
bride, and came North, where, with Harry and Miss Delany as attendants,
he was married to Iola, amid a pleasant gathering of friends, by Rev.
Carmicle
It was late in the summer when Dr Latimer and his bride reached their
home in North Carolina. Over the cottage porch were morning-glories to
greet the first flushes of the rising day, and roses and jasmines to
distill their fragrance on the evening air. Aunt Linda, who had been
apprised of their coming, was patiently awaiting their arrival, and
Uncle Daniel was pleased to know that
As soon as they arrived, Aunt Linda rushed up to Iola, folded her in her
arms, and joyfully exclaimed
replied Mrs. Latimer
Dr Latimer was much gratified by the tender care Aunt Linda bestowed
on Iola
Aunt Linda was
kind and obliging, but there was one place where she drew the line, and
that was at learning to read.

Harry and Miss Delany accompanied Iola as far as her new home, and
remained several days. The evening before their departure, Harry took
Miss Delany a drive of several miles through the pine barrens
Harry broke out, when they had
gone some distance
replied Miss Delany
asked Harry, looking
puzzled
replied Miss Delany, in a tone of surprise
asked Lucille
responded Lucille
replied Harry, with a serious air
asked Lucille, archly
answered Harry, trying to take her hand
she exclaimed, playfully resisting
responded Harry
he added,
more seriously
he replied, soberly
There was something in the expression of Harry's face and the
tone of his voice which arrested the banter on Lucille's lips
replied Lucille
replied Lucille
replied Harry, with an air of confidence
replied Lucille
The above promise was thoughtfully remembered by Lucille till a bridal
ring and happy marriage were the result.

Soon after Iola had settled in C ---- she quietly took her place in the
Sunday-school as a teacher, and in the church as a helper. She was
welcomed by the young pastor, who found in her a strong and faithful
ally. Together they planned meetings for the especial benefit of mothers
and children. When the dens of vice are spreading their snares for the
feet of the tempted and inexperienced her doors are freely opened for
the instruction of the children before their feet have wandered and gone
far astray. She has no carpets too fine for the tread of their little
feet. She thinks it is better to have stains on her carpet than stains
on their souls through any neglect of hers. In lowly homes and
windowless cabins her visits are always welcome. Little children love
her. Old age turns to her for comfort, young girls for guidance, and
mothers for counsel. Her life is full of blessedness.

Doctor Latimer by his kindness and skill has won the name of the
But he is more than a successful doctor; he is a true patriot
and a good citizen. Honest, just, and discriminating, he endeavors by
precept and example to instill into the minds of others sentiments of
good citizenship. He is a leader in every reform movement for the
benefit of the community; but his patriotism is not confined to race
lines
While he
abhors their deeds of violence, he pities the short-sighted and besotted
men who seem madly intent upon laying magazines of powder under the
cradles of unborn generations. He has great faith in the possibilities
of the negro, and believes that, enlightened and Christianized, he will
sink the old animosities of slavery into the new community of interests
arising from freedom; and that his influence upon the South will be as
the influence of the sun upon the earth. As when the sun passes from
Capricorn to Cancer, beauty, greenness, and harmony spring up in his
path, so he hopes that the future career of the negro will be a greater
influence for freedom and social advancement than it was in the days of
yore for slavery and its inferior civilization.

Harry and Lucille are at the head of a large and flourishing school.
Lucille gives her ripening experience to her chosen work, to which she
was too devoted to resign. And through the school they are lifting up
the homes of the people. Some have pitied, others blamed, Harry for
casting his lot with the colored people, but he knows that life's
highest and best advantages do not depend on the color of the skin or
texture of the hair. He has his reward in the improved condition of his
pupils and the superb manhood and noble life which he has developed in
his much needed work.

Uncle Daniel still lingers on the shores of time, a cheery, lovable old
man, loved and respected by all; a welcome guest in every home. Soon
after Iola's marriage, Robert sold out his business and moved with his
mother and sister to North Carolina. He bought a large plantation near
C ----, which he divided into small homesteads, and sold to poor but
thrifty laborers, and his heart has been gladdened by their increased
prosperity and progress. He has seen the one-roomed cabins change to
comfortable cottages, in which cleanliness and order have supplanted the
prolific causes of disease and death. Kind and generous, he often
remembers Mrs. Johnson and sends her timely aid.

Marie's pale, spiritual face still bears traces of the beauty which was
her youthful dower, but its bloom has been succeeded by an air of
sweetness and dignity. Though frail in health, she is always ready to
lend a helping hand wherever and whenever she can.

Grandmother Johnson was glad to return South and spend the remnant of
her days with the remaining friends of her early life. Although feeble,
she is in full sympathy with her children for the uplifting of the race.
Marie and her mother are enjoying their aftermath of life, one by
rendering to others all the service in her power, while the other, with
her face turned toward the celestial city, is
The shadows have been lifted from all their lives; and peace, like
bright dew, has descended upon their paths. Blessed themselves, their
lives are a blessing to others.




NOTE.

From threads of fact and fiction I have woven a story whose mission will
not be in vain if it awaken in the hearts of our countrymen a stronger
sense of justice and a more Christlike humanity in behalf of those whom
the fortunes of war threw, homeless, ignorant and poor, upon the
threshold of a new era. Nor will it be in vain if it inspire the
children of those upon whose brows God has poured the chrism of that new
era to determine that they will embrace every opportunity, develop every
faculty, and use every power God has given them to rise in the scale of
character and condition, and to add their quota of good citizenship to
the best welfare of the nation. There are scattered among us materials
for mournful tragedies and mirth-provoking comedies, which some hand may
yet bring into the literature of the country, glowing with the fervor of
the tropics and enriched by the luxuriance of the Orient, and thus add
to the solution of our unsolved American problem.

The race has not had very long to straighten its hands from the hoe, to
grasp the pen and wield it as a power for good, and to erect above the
ruined auction-block and slave-pen institutions of learning, but

    There is light beyond the darkness,
          Joy beyond the present pain;
    There is hope in God's great justice
          And the negro's rising brain.
    Though the morning seems to linger
          O'er the hill-tops far away,
    Yet the shadows bear the promise
          Of a brighter coming day
</text>
