<text>
Fiction has said so much in regret of the old days when there were
plantations and overseers and masters and slaves, that it was good to
come upon such a household as Berry Hamilton's, if for no other reason
than that it afforded a relief from the monotony of tiresome iteration.

The little cottage in which he lived with his wife, Fannie, who was
housekeeper to the Oakleys, and his son and daughter, Joe and Kit, sat
back in the yard some hundred paces from the mansion of his employer. It
was somewhat in the manner of the old cabin in the quarters, with which
usage as well as tradition had made both master and servant familiar.
But, unlike the cabin of the elder day, it was a neatly furnished,
modern house, the home of a typical, good-living negro. For twenty years
Berry Hamilton had been butler for Maurice Oakley. He was one of the
many slaves who upon their accession to freedom had not left the South,
but had wandered from place to place in their own beloved section,
waiting, working, and struggling to rise with its rehabilitated
fortunes.

The first faint signs of recovery were being seen when he came to
Maurice Oakley as a servant. Through thick and thin he remained with
him, and when the final upward tendency of his employer began his
fortunes had increased in like manner. When, having married, Oakley
bought the great house in which he now lived, he left the little
servant's cottage in the yard, for, as he said laughingly
His joking prophecy came true very soon. Berry had long had a tenderness
for Fannie, the housekeeper. As she retained her post under the new Mrs.
Oakley, and as there was a cottage ready to his hand, it promised to be
cheaper and more convenient all around to get married. Fannie was
willing, and so the matter was settled.

Fannie had never regretted her choice, nor had Berry ever had cause to
curse his utilitarian ideas. The stream of years had flowed pleasantly
and peacefully with them. Their little sorrows had come, but their joys
had been many.

As time went on, the little cottage grew in comfort. It was replenished
with things handed down from "the house" from time to time and with
others bought from the pair's earnings.

Berry had time for his lodge, and Fannie time to spare for her own house
and garden. Flowers bloomed in the little plot in front and behind it;
vegetables and greens testified to the housewife's industry.

Over the door of the little house a fine Virginia creeper bent and fell
in graceful curves, and a cluster of insistent morning-glories clung in
summer about its stalwart stock.

It was into this bower of peace and comfort that Joe and Kitty were
born. They brought a new sunlight into the house and a new joy to the
father's and mother's hearts. Their early lives were pleasant and
carefully guarded. They got what schooling the town afforded, but both
went to work early, Kitty helping her mother and Joe learning the trade
of barber.

Kit was the delight of her mother's life. She was a pretty, cheery
little thing, and could sing like a lark. Joe too was of a cheerful
disposition, but from scraping the chins of aristocrats came to imbibe
some of their ideas, and rather too early in life bid fair to be a
dandy. But his father encouraged him, for, said he
Fannie had
replied, although she did fully as much "humo'in'" as her husband
Her own eyes would follow the boy lovingly and proudly even as she
chided. She could not say very much, either, for Berry always had the
reply that she was spoiling Kit out of all reason. The girl did have the
prettiest clothes of any of her race in the town, and when she was to
sing for the benefit of the A. M. E. church or for the benefit of her
father's society, the Tribe of Benjamin, there was nothing too good for
her to wear. In this too they were aided and abetted by Mrs. Oakley, who
also took a lively interest in the girl.

So the two doting parents had their chats and their jokes at each
other's expense and went bravely on, doing their duties and spoiling
their children much as white fathers and mothers are wont to do.

What the less fortunate negroes of the community said of them and their
offspring is really not worth while. Envy has a sharp tongue, and when
has not the aristocrat been the target for the plebeian's sneers?

Joe and Kit were respectively eighteen and sixteen at the time when the
preparations for Maurice Oakley's farewell dinner to his brother Francis
were agitating the whole Hamilton household. All of them had a hand in
the work: Joe had shaved the two men; Kit had helped Mrs. Oakley's maid;
the mother had fretted herself weak over the shortcomings of a cook that
had been in the family nearly as long as herself, while Berry was stern
and dignified in anticipation of the glorious figure he was to make in
serving.

When all was ready, peace again settled upon the Hamiltons. Mrs.
Hamilton, in the whitest of white aprons, prepared to be on hand to
annoy the cook still more; Kit was ready to station herself where she
could view the finery; Joe had condescended to promise to be home in
time to eat some of the good things, and Berry -- Berry was gorgeous in
his evening suit with the white waistcoat, as he directed the nimble
waiters hither and thither
Maurice Oakley was not a man of sudden or violent enthusiasms.
Conservatism was the quality that had been the foundation of his
fortunes at a time when the disruption of the country had involved most
of the men of his region in ruin.

Without giving any one ground to charge him with being lukewarm or
renegade to his cause, he had yet so adroitly managed his affairs that
when peace came he was able quickly to recover much of the ground lost
during the war. With a rare genius for adapting himself to new
conditions, he accepted the changed order of things with a passive
resignation, but with a stern determination to make the most out of any
good that might be in it.

It was a favourite remark of his that there must be some good in every
system, and it was the duty of the citizen to find out that good and
make it pay. He had done this. His house, his reputation, his
satisfaction, were all evidences that he had succeeded.

A childless man, he bestowed upon his younger brother, Francis, the
enthusiasm he would have given to a son. His wife shared with her
husband this feeling for her brother-in-law, and with him played the
role of parent, which had otherwise been denied her.

It was true that Francis Oakley was only a half-brother to Maurice, the
son of a second and not too fortunate marriage, but there was no halving
of the love which the elder man had given to him from childhood up.

At the first intimation that Francis had artistic ability, his brother
had placed him under the best masters in America, and later, when the
promise of his youth had begun to blossom, he sent him to Paris,
although the expenditure just at that time demanded a sacrifice which
might have been the ruin of Maurice's own career. Francis's promise had
never come to entire fulfilment. He was always trembling on the verge of
a great success without quite plunging into it. Despite the joy which
his presence gave his brother and sister-in-law, most of his time was
spent abroad, where he could find just the atmosphere that suited his
delicate, artistic nature. After a visit of two months he was about
returning to Paris for a stay of five years. At last he was going to
apply himself steadily and try to be less the dilettante.

The company which Maurice Oakley brought together to say good-bye to his
brother on this occasion was drawn from the best that this fine old
Southern town afforded. There were colonels there at whose titles and
the owners' rights to them no one could laugh; there were brilliant
women there who had queened it in Richmond, Baltimore, Louisville, and
New Orleans, and every Southern capital under the old regime, and there
were younger ones there of wit and beauty who were just beginning to
hold their court. For Francis was a great favourite both with men and
women. He was a handsome man, tall, slender, and graceful. He had the
face and brow of a poet, a pallid face framed in a mass of dark hair.
There was a touch of weakness in his mouth, but this was shaded and half
hidden by a full mustache that made much forgivable to beauty-loving
eyes.

It was generally conceded that Mrs. Oakley was a hostess whose guests
had no awkward half-hour before dinner. No praise could be higher than
this, and to-night she had no need to exert herself to maintain this
reputation. Her brother-in-law was the life of the assembly; he had wit
and daring, and about him there was just that hint of charming danger
that made him irresistible to women. The guests heard the dinner
announced with surprise,-- an unusual thing, except in this house.

Both Maurice Oakley and his wife looked fondly at the artist as he went
in with Claire Lessing. He was talking animatedly to the girl, having
changed the general trend of the conversation to a manner and tone
directed more particularly to her. While she listened to him, her face
glowed and her eyes shone with a light that every man could not bring
into them.

As Maurice and his wife followed him with their gaze, the same thought
was in their minds, and it had not just come to them, Why could not
Francis marry Claire Lessing and settle in America, instead of going
back ever and again to that life in the Latin Quarter? They did not
believe that it was a bad life or a dissipated one, but from the little
that they had seen of it when they were in Paris, it was at least a bit
too free and unconventional for their traditions. There were, too,
temptations which must assail any man of Francis's looks and talents.
They had perfect faith in the strength of his manhood, of course; but
could they have had their way, it would have been their will to hedge
him about so that no breath of evil invitation could have come nigh to
him.

But this younger brother, this half ward of theirs, was an unruly
member. He talked and laughed, rode and walked, with Claire Lessing with
the same free abandon, the same show of uninterested good comradeship,
that he had used towards her when they were boy and girl together. There
was not a shade more of warmth or self-consciousness in his manner
towards her than there had been fifteen years before. In fact, there was
less, for there had been a time, when he was six and Claire three, that
Francis, with a boldness that the lover of maturer years tries vainly to
attain, had announced to Claire that he was going to marry her. But he
had never renewed this declaration when it came time that it would carry
weight with it.

They made a fine picture as they sat together to-night. One seeing them
could hardly help thinking on the instant that they were made for each
other. Something in the woman's face, in her expression perhaps,
supplied a palpable lack in the man. The strength of her mouth and chin
helped the weakness of his. She was the sort of woman who, if ever he
came to a great moral crisis in his life, would be able to save him if
she were near. And yet he was going away from her, giving up the pearl
that he had only to put out his hand to take.

Some of these thoughts were in the minds of the brother and sister now
Francis was saying
Francis laughed and flushed hotly. Claire noted the flush and wondered
at it. Had she indeed hit upon the real point? Was that the reason that
he was so anxious to get back to Paris? The thought struck a chill
through her gaiety. She did not want to be suspicious, but what was the
cause of that tell-tale flush? He was not a man easily disconcerted;
then why so to-night? But her companion talked on with such innocent
composure that she believed herself mistaken as to the reason for his
momentary confusion.

Someone cried gayly across the table to her
said Francis
cried the ladies
an old military man broke in
Claire was looking at her companion. Had he meant the approval of the
women, or was it one woman that he cared for? Had the speech had a
hidden meaning for her? She could never tell. She could not understand
this man who had been so much to her for so long, and yet did not seem
to know it; who was full of romance and fire and passion, and yet looked
at her beauty with the eyes of a mere comrade. She sighed as she rose
with the rest of the women to leave the table.

The men lingered over their cigars. The wine was old and the stories
new. What more could they ask? There was a strong glow in Francis
Oakley's face, and his laugh was frequent and ringing. Some discussion
came up which sent him running up to his room for a bit of evidence.
When he came down it was not to come directly to the dining-room. He
paused in the hall and despatched a servant to bring his brother to him.

Maurice found him standing weakly against the railing of the stairs.
Something in his air impressed his brother strangely
he questioned, hurrying to him
was the reply in a grieved
voice
The younger man pulled himself together, and re-entered the room with
his brother. In a few minutes his gaiety had apparently returned.

When they rejoined the ladies, even their quick eyes could detect in his
demeanour no trace of the annoying thing that had occurred. His face did
not change until, with a wealth of fervent congratulations, he had bade
the last guest good-bye.

Then he turned to his brother
he said, and walked sadly away
mused his brother
Frank was very pale when his brother finally came to him at the
appointed place. He sat limply in his chair, his eyes fixed upon the
floor
At the sound of his brother's voice he started and looked up as though
he had been dreaming
he said
The artist shook his head
he said
The younger man looked up quickly
said Frank impulsively
Frank gave a scarcely perceptible start
he
said
Frank hesitated
said Frank stoutly
Frank looked bored
The young man reluctantly withdrew, and Maurice went to the telephone
and rung up the police station.

As Maurice had said, he was a plain, hard-headed business man, and it
took very few words for him to put the Chief of Police in possession of
the principal facts of the case. A detective was detailed to take
charge of the case, and was started immediately, so that he might be
upon the ground as soon after the commission of the crime as possible.

When he came he insisted that if he was to do anything he must question
the robbed man and search his room at once. Oakley protested, but the
detective was adamant. Even now the presence in the room of a man
uninitiated into the mysteries of criminal methods might be destroying
the last vestige of a really important clue. The master of the house had
no alternative save to yield. Together they went to the artist's room. A
light shone out through the crack under the door
There was a sound of moving around, and in a short time the young
fellow, partly undressed, opened the door.

To the detective's questions he answered in substance what he had told
before. He also brought out the cabinet. It was a strong oak box,
uncarven, but bound at the edges with brass. The key was still in the
lock, where Frank had left it on discovering his loss. They raised the
lid. The cabinet contained two compartments, one for letters and a
smaller one for jewels and trinkets
The detective examined the room carefully, its approaches, and the
hall-ways without. He paused knowingly at a window that overlooked the
flat top of a porch
Frank and Maurice looked at each other. The younger man hesitated and
put his hand to his head. Maurice answered grimly
Frank's face was really very white now. The detective nodded again
he said simply
said Frank
The artist gave a sigh of relief. He hated to be involved in unpleasant
things. He went as far as the outer door with his brother and the
detective. As he bade the officer good-night and hurried up the hall,
Frank put his hand to his head again with a convulsive gesture, as if
struck by a sudden pain
said
Oakley
They passed into the dining-room, where Maurice poured out some brandy
for his brother and himself
he asked, as
he tossed his own down
Frank Oakley turned away towards his room. His face was haggard, and he
staggered as he walked. His brother looked after him with a pitying and
affectionate gaze
he said
and then he added
He found Mrs. Oakley asleep when he reached the room, but he awakened
her to tell her the story. She was horror-struck. It was hard to have to
believe this awful thing of an old servant, but she agreed with him that
Hamilton must be made an example of when the time came. Before that,
however, he must not know that he was suspected.

They fell asleep, he with thoughts of anger and revenge, and she grieved
and disappointed
The inmates of the Oakley house had not been long in their beds before
Hamilton was out of his and rousing his own little household
he called to his son
It was a cool Autumn morning, fresh and dew-washed. The sun was just
rising, and a cool clear breeze was blowing across the land. The blue
smoke from the
where the fire was already going, whirled
fantastically over the roofs like a belated ghost. It was just the
morning to doze in comfort, and so thought all of Berry's household
except himself. Loud was the complaining as they threw themselves out of
bed. They maintained that it was an altogether unearthly hour to get up.
Even Mrs. Hamilton added her protest, until she suddenly remembered what
morning it was, when she hurried into her clothes and set about getting
the family's breakfast.

The good-humour of all of them returned when they were seated about
their table with some of the good things of the night before set out,
and the talk ran cheerily around
said Hamilton
He
chuckled with delight at the recollection
put in
Kitty.

Joe did not condescend to join in the conversation, but contented
himself with devouring the good things and aping the manners of the
young men whom he knew had been among last night's guests
said Berry, rising
He went out cheerily to his work. No shadow of impending disaster
depressed his spirits. No cloud obscured his sky. He was a simple, easy
man, and he saw nothing in the manner of the people whom he served that
morning at breakfast save a natural grief at parting from each other. He
did not even take the trouble to inquire who the strange white man was
who hung about the place.

When it came time for the young man to leave, with the privilege of an
old servitor Berry went up to him to bid him good-bye. He held out his
hand to him, and with a glance at his brother, Frank took it and shook
it cordially
he said. Maurice could hardly restrain
his anger at the sight, but his wife was moved to tears at her
brother-in-law's generosity.

The last sight they saw as the carriage rolled away towards the station
was Berry standing upon the steps waving a hearty farewell and
god-speed
gasped his brother, as soon as they had
driven well out of hearing
said Mrs. Oakley gently
was Frank's reply
The young man sighed and was silent the rest of the way
he said in parting
His brother wrung his hand
he said
The young fellow bade them a hearty good-bye, and they, knowing what his
feelings must be, spared him the prolonging of the strain. They waited
in the carriage, and he waved to them as the train rolled out of the
station
said Mrs. Oakley
The detective was waiting on the lawn when Maurice Oakley returned. They
went immediately to the library, Oakley walking with the firm, hard
tread of a man who is both exasperated and determined, and the officer
gliding along with the cat-like step which is one of the attributes of
his profession
was the impatient man's question as soon as the door closed upon
them
Oakley struck the bell, and Berry himself answered it
said Oakley, shortly.

Berry looked astonished
asked the officer
was the grinning reply
The employer half rose from his chair. His face was livid with anger.
But at a sign from the detective he strove to calm himself
said the officer.

Oakley nodded. Berry was looking distressed and excited. He seemed not
to understand it at all
the officer pursued
Oakley broke in
impetuously
Berry had suddenly turned ashen
said the servant helplessly
Fannie was summoned, and when the matter was explained to her, first
gave evidences of giving way to grief, but when the detective began to
question her, she calmed herself and answered directly just as her
husband had
sneered Oakley
Berry had begun to look more hopeful during Fannie's recital, but now
the ashen look came back into his face. At the word "arrest" his wife
collapsed utterly, and sobbed on her husband's shoulder
cried Fannie stoutly
Berry turned to his employer
His voice broke, and he ended with a cry
Berry's eyes were bloodshot as he replied
Oakley made a step forward, and his man did likewise, but the officer
stepped between them
The two men stood fiercely facing each other, then the handcuffs were
snapped on the servant's wrist
shrieked Fannie
She sped from the room.

The commotion had called a crowd of curious servants into the hall.
Fannie hardly saw them as she dashed among them, crying for her
mistress. In a moment she returned, dragging Mrs. Oakley by the hand
Fannie, her last hope gone, flung herself on the floor, crying
Her husband bent over her, the tears dropping from his eyes
he said
She raised her head, and seizing his manacled hands pressed them to her
breast, wailing in a low monotone
They disengaged her hands, and led Berry away
said Oakley sternly to the servants; and they lifted her
up and carried her away in a sort of dumb stupor that was half a swoon.

They took her to her little cottage, and laid her down until she could
come to herself and the full horror of her situation burst upon her
The arrest of Berry Hamilton on the charge preferred by his employer was
the cause of unusual commotion in the town. Both the accuser and the
accused were well known to the citizens, white and black,-- Maurice
Oakley as a solid man of business, and Berry as an honest, sensible
negro, and the pink of good servants. The evening papers had a full
story of the crime, which closed by saying that the prisoner had amassed
a considerable sum of money, it was very likely from a long series of
smaller peculations.

It seems a strange irony upon the force of right living, that this man,
who had never been arrested before, who had never even been suspected of
wrong-doing, should find so few who even at the first telling doubted
the story of his guilt. Many people began to remember things that had
looked particularly suspicious in his dealings. Some others said
There were only a few who dared to say
The first act of his lodge
whose treasurer he
was, was to have his accounts audited, when they should have been
visiting him with comfort, and they seemed personally grieved when his
books were found to be straight. The A. M. E. church, of which he had
been an honest and active member, hastened to disavow sympathy with him,
and to purge itself of contamination by turning him out. His friends
were afraid to visit him and were silent when his enemies gloated. On
every side one might have asked, Where is charity? and gone away empty.

In the black people of the town the strong influence of slavery was
still operative, and with one accord they turned away from one of their
own kind upon whom had been set the ban of the white people's
displeasure. If they had sympathy, they dared not show it. Their own
interests, the safety of their own positions and firesides, demanded
that they stand aloof from the criminal. Not then, not now, nor has it
ever been true, although it has been claimed, that negroes either
harbour or sympathise with the criminal of their kind. They did not dare
to do it before the sixties. They do not dare to do it now. They have
brought down as a heritage from the days of their bondage both fear and
disloyalty. So Berry was unbefriended while the storm raged around him.
The cell where they had placed him was kind to him, and he could not
hear the envious and sneering comments that went on about him. This was
kind, for the tongues of his enemies were not
said one
said another
broke in old Isaac Brown indignantly
The fact of the matter was that Minty Brown was no better than she
should have been, and did not deserve to be spoken to. But none of this
was taken into account either by the speaker or the hearers. The man was
down, it was time to strike.

The women too joined their shrill voices to the general cry, and were
loud in their abuse of the Hamiltons and in disparagement of their
high-toned airs
mumbled one old crone, rolling her bleared
and jealous eyes with glee
The women suddenly became interested in this half assertion, and the old
hag, seeing that she had made the desired impression, lapsed into
silence.

The whites were not neglecting to review and comment on the case also.
It had been long since so great a bit of wrong-doing in a negro had
given them cause for speculation and recrimination
said old Horace Talbot, who was noted for his kindliness
towards people of colour
They were in the bar of the
Continental Hotel, and the old gentleman sipped his liquor as he talked
broke in Mr. Beachfield
Davis, who was a mighty hunter
Old Horace was nothing if not logical
asked
Colonel Saunders hesitatingly. He was the only man who had ever thought
of such a possibility. They turned on him as if he had been some
strange, unnatural animal
cried Old Horace
exclaimed Mr. Davis
almost shrieked the rest
said the Colonel
The Colonel saw, or said he did. And he did not answer what he might
have answered, that Berry had no rent and no board to pay. His clothes
came from his master, and Kitty and Fannie looked to their mistress for
the larger number of their supplies. He did not call to their minds that
Fannie herself made fifteen dollars a month, and that for two years Joe
had been supporting himself. These things did not come up, and as far as
the opinion of the gentlemen assembled in the Continental bar went,
Berry was already proven guilty.

As for the prisoner himself, after the first day when he had pleaded
"Not guilty" and been bound over to the Grand Jury, he had fallen into
a sort of dazed calm that was like the stupor produced by a drug. He
took little heed of what went on around him. The shock had been too
sudden for him, and it was as if his reason had been for the time
unseated. That it was not permanently overthrown was evidenced by his
waking to the most acute pain and grief whenever Fannie came to him.
Then he would toss and moan and give vent to his sorrow in passionate
complaints
Beyond this, apparently, his mind could not go. That his detention was
anything more than temporary never seemed to enter his mind. That he
would be convicted and sentenced was as far from possibility as the
skies from the earth. If he saw visions of a long sojourn in prison, it
was only as a nightmare half consciously experienced and which with the
struggle must give way before the waking.

Fannie was utterly hopeless. She had laid down whatever pride had been
hers and gone to plead with Maurice Oakley for her husband's freedom,
and she had seen his hard, set face. She had gone upon her knees before
his wife to cite Berry's long fidelity
she cried
Mrs. Oakley had taken her up
sharply
The stricken woman reeled out of her mistress's presence, and Mrs.
Oakley told her husband that night, with tears in her eyes, how
disappointed she was with Fannie,-- that the woman had known it all
along, and had only just confessed. It was just one more link in the
chain that was surely and not too slowly forging itself about Berry
Hamilton.

Of all the family Joe was the only one who burned with a fierce
indignation. He knew that his father was innocent, and his very
helplessness made a fever in his soul. Dandy as he was, he was loyal,
and when he saw his mother's tears and his sister's shame, something
rose within him that had it been given play might have made a man of
him, but, being crushed, died and rotted, and in the compost it made all
the evil of his nature flourished. The looks and gibes of his
fellow-employees at the barber-shop forced him to leave his work there.
Kit, bowed with shame and grief, dared not appear upon the streets,
where the girls who had envied her now hooted at her. So the little
family was shut in upon itself away from fellowship and sympathy.

Joe went seldom to see his father. He was not heartless; but the citadel
of his long desired and much vaunted manhood trembled before the sight
of his father's abject misery. The lines came round his lips, and lines
too must have come round his heart. Poor fellow, he was too young for
this forcing process, and in the hot-house of pain he only grew an
acrid, unripe cynic.

At the sitting of the Grand Jury Berry was indicted. His trial followed
soon, and the town turned out to see it. Some came to laugh and scoff,
but these, his enemies, were silenced by the spectacle of his grief. In
vain the lawyer whom he had secured showed that the evidence against him
proved nothing. In vain he produced proof of the slow accumulation of
what the man had. In vain he pleaded the man's former good name. The
judge and the jury saw otherwise. Berry was convicted. He was given ten
years at hard labour.

He hardly looked as if he could live out one as he heard his sentence.
But Nature was kind and relieved him of the strain. With a cry as if his
heart were bursting, he started up and fell forward on his face
unconscious. Some one, a bit more brutal than the rest, said
but no one laughed.
There was something too portentous, too tragic in the degradation of
this man.

Maurice Oakley sat in the court-room, grim and relentless. As soon as
the trial was over, he sent for Fannie, who still kept the cottage in
the yard
he said
And Fannie bowed her head and went away from him in silence.

All the night long the women of the Hamilton household lay in bed and
wept, clinging to each other in their grief. But Joe did not go to
sleep. Against all their entreaties, he stayed up. He put out the light
and sat staring into the gloom with hard, burning eyes
What particularly irritated Maurice Oakley was that Berry should to the
very last keep up his claim of innocence. He reiterated it to the very
moment that the train which was bearing him away pulled out of the
station. There had seldom been seen such an example of criminal
hardihood, and Oakley was hardened thereby to greater severity in
dealing with the convict's wife. He began to urge her more strongly to
move, and she, dispirited and humiliated by what had come to her, looked
vainly about for the way to satisfy his demands. With her natural
protector gone, she felt more weak and helpless than she had thought it
possible to feel. It was hard enough to face the world. But to have to
ask something of it was almost more than she could bear.

With the conviction of her husband the last five hundred dollars had
been confiscated as belonging to the stolen money, but their former
deposit remained untouched. With this she had the means at her disposal
to tide over their present days of misfortune. It was not money she
lacked, but confidence. Some inkling of the world's attitude towards
her, guiltless though she was, reached her and made her afraid.

Her desperation, however, would not let her give way to fear, so she set
forth to look for another house. Joe and Kit saw her go as if she were
starting on an expedition into a strange country. In all their lives
they had known no home save the little cottage in Oakley's yard. Here
they had toddled as babies and played as children and been happy and
care-free. There had been times when they had complained and wanted a
home off by themselves, like others whom they knew. They had not
failed, either, to draw unpleasant comparisons between their mode of
life and the old plantation quarters system. But now all this was
forgotten, and there were only grief and anxiety that they must leave
the place and in such a way.

Fannie went out with little hope in her heart, and a short while after
she was gone Joe decided to follow her and make an attempt to get work
This was something of a condescension for Berry Hamilton's son. He had
never yet shaved a black chin or put shears to what he termed
and he was proud of it. He thought, though, that after the training he
had received from the superior "Tonsorial Parlours" where he had been
employed, he had but to ask for a place and he would be gladly
accepted.

It is strange how all the foolish little vaunting things that a man says
in days of prosperity wax a giant crop around him in the days of his
adversity. Berry Hamilton's son found this out almost as soon as he had
applied at the first of the coloured shops for work
said the proprietor
came from the
back of the shop, where a grinning negro was scraping a fellow's face
the proprietor resumed
Joe Hamilton never knew how he got out of that shop. He only knew that
he found himself upon the street outside the door, tears of anger and
shame in his eyes, and the laughs and taunts of his tormentors still
ringing in his ears.

It was cruel, of course it was cruel. It was brutal. But only he knew
how just it had been. In his moments of pride he had said all those
things, half in fun and half in earnest, and he began to wonder how he
could have been so many kinds of a fool for so long without realising
it.

He had not the heart to seek another shop, for he knew that what would
be known at one would be equally well known at all the rest. The hardest
thing that he had to bear was the knowledge that he had shut himself out
of all the chances that he now desired. He remembered with a pang the
words of an old negro to whom he had once been impudent
It was too true. He had not known then what would come. He had never
dreamed that anything so terrible could overtake him. Even in his
straits, however, desperation gave him a certain pluck. He would try for
something else for which his own tongue had not disqualified him. With
Joe, to think was to do. He went on to the Continental Hotel, where
there were almost always boys wanted to
The clerk
looked him over critically. He was a bright, spruce-looking young
fellow, and the man liked his looks
he said
was the laconic answer. He was afraid to say more
Young Hamilton went over and sat down on a bench which ran along the
hotel corridor and where the bellmen were wont to stay during the day
awaiting their calls. A few of the blue-coated Mercuries were there.
Upon Joe's advent they began to look askance at him and to talk among
themselves. He felt his face burning as he thought of what they must be
saying. Then he saw the head bellman talking to the clerk and looking in
his direction. He saw him shake his head and walk away. He could have
cursed him. The clerk called to him
he said
Joe turned away to meet the grinning or contemptuous glances of the
bellmen on the seat. It would have been good to be able to hurl
something among them. But he was helpless.

He hastened out of the hotel, feeling that every eye was upon him, every
finger pointing at him, every tongue whispering
What should he do? He could try no more. He was proscribed, and the
letters of his ban were writ large throughout the town, where all who
ran might read. For a while he wandered aimlessly about and then turned
dejectedly homeward. His mother had not yet come
was Kit's first question
he answered bitterly
Some of the girl's cheery hopefulness had come back to her in the
presence of her brother's dejection, as a woman always forgets her own
sorrow when some one she loves is grieving. But she could not
communicate any of her feeling to Joe, who had been and seen and felt,
and now sat darkly waiting his mother's return. Some presentiment seemed
to tell him that, armed as she was with money to pay for what she wanted
and asking for nothing without price, she would yet have no better tale
to tell than he.

None of these forebodings visited the mind of Kit, and as soon as her
mother appeared on the threshold she ran to her, crying
Fannie looked at her for a moment, and then answered with a burst of
tears
The girl stepped back astonished
and then with a rush of
tenderness she threw her arms about her mother's neck
she said
Fannie sat down and tried to drink her tea, but she could not. It stuck
in her throat, and the tears rolled down her face and fell into the
shaking cup. Joe looked on silently. He had been out and he understood
Her mother looked up, the maternal instinct for the protection of her
daughter at once aroused
she said.

Then for the first time Joe spoke
His light-brown face turned brick red with anger
and shame at the memory of it
Kitty was gazing with wide and saddening eyes at her mother
she asked breathlessly
The girl was standing with her hands clenched nervously before her. It
was almost more than she could understand
she said
said Joe in his
throat
his mother
replied
cried the boy fiercely
echoed Kitty helplessly
In the midst of the conversation a knock came at the door. It was a
messenger from the
as they still called Oakley's home, and he
wanted them to be out of the cottage by the next afternoon, as the new
servants were coming and would want the rooms.

The message was so curt, so hard and decisive, that Fannie was startled
out of her grief into immediate action
she said, rising wearily
wailed Kitty in affright
The boy spoke recklessly in his anger. He had never sworn before
his mother before.

She looked at him in horror
she said
Joe remained sullenly silent. His mother's faith was too stalwart for
his comprehension. There was nothing like it in his own soul to
interpret it
said Joe
They had heard of New York as a place vague and far away, a city that,
like Heaven, to them had existed by faith alone. All the days of their
lives they had heard of it, and it seemed to them the centre of all the
glory, all the wealth, and all the freedom of the world. New York. It
had an alluring sound. Who would know them there? Who would look down
upon them
put in Kitty
said his mother, her voice trembling with emotion at
the daring step they were about to take
Something akin to joy came into the boy's heart as he sat down to write
the letter. They had taunted him, had they? They had scoffed at him. But
he was going where they might never go, and some day he would come back
holding his head high and pay them sneer for sneer and jibe for jibe.

The same night the commission was given to the furniture dealer who
would take charge of their things and sell them when and for what he
could.

From his window the next morning Maurice Oakley watched the wagon
emptying the house. Then he saw Fannie come out and walk about her
little garden, followed by her children. He saw her as she wiped her
eyes and led the way to the side gate
he said to his wife
replied Mrs. Oakley
languidly.

Despite the fact that his mother carried with her the rest of the money
drawn from the bank, Joe had suddenly stepped into the place of the man
of the family. He attended to all the details of their getting away with
a promptness that made it seem untrue that he had never been more than
thirty miles from his native town. He was eager and excited. As the
train drew out of the station, he did not look back upon the place which
he hated, but Fannie and her daughter let their eyes linger upon it
until the last house, the last chimney, and the last spire faded from
their sight, and their tears fell and mingled as they were whirled away
toward the unknown
To the provincial coming to New York for the first time, ignorant and
unknown, the city presents a notable mingling of the qualities of
cheeriness and gloom. If he have any eye at all for the beautiful, he
cannot help experiencing a thrill as he crosses the ferry over the river
filled with plying craft and catches the first sight of the spires and
buildings of New York. If he have the right stuff in him, a something
will take possession of him that will grip him again every time he
returns to the scene and will make him long and hunger for the place
when he is away from it. Later, the lights in the busy streets will
bewilder and entice him. He will feel shy and helpless amid the hurrying
crowds. A new emotion will take his heart as the people hasten by
him,-- a feeling of loneliness, almost of grief, that with all of these
souls about him he knows not one and not one of them cares for him.
After a while he will find a place and give a sigh of relief as he
settles away from the city's sights behind his cosey blinds. It is
better here, and the city is cruel and cold and unfeeling. This he will
feel, perhaps, for the first half-hour, and then he will be out in it
all again. He will be glad to strike elbows with the bustling mob and be
happy at their indifference to him, so that he may look at them and
study them. After it is all over, after he has passed through the first
pangs of strangeness and homesickness, yes, even after he has got beyond
the stranger's enthusiasm for the metropolis, the real fever of love for
the place will begin to take hold upon him. The subtle, insidious wine
of New York will begin to intoxicate him. Then, if he be wise, he will
go away, any place,-- yes, he will even go over to Jersey. But if he be a
fool, he will stay and stay on until the town becomes all in all to him;
until the very streets are his chums and certain buildings and corners
his best friends. Then he is hopeless, and to live elsewhere would be
death. The Bowery will be his romance, Broadway his lyric, and the Park
his pastoral, the river and the glory of it all his epic, and he will
look down pityingly on all the rest of humanity.

It was the afternoon of a clear October day that the Hamiltons reached
New York. Fannie had some misgivings about crossing the ferry, but once
on the boat these gave way to speculations as to what they should find
on the other side. With the eagerness of youth to take in new
impressions, Joe and Kitty were more concerned with what they saw about
them than with what their future would hold, though they might well have
stopped to ask some such questions. In all the great city they knew
absolutely no one, and had no idea which way to go to find a
stopping-place.

They looked about them for some coloured face, and finally saw one among
the porters who were handling the baggage. To Joe's inquiry he gave them
an address, and also proffered his advice as to the best way to reach
the place. He was exceedingly polite, and he looked hard at Kitty. They
found the house to which they had been directed, and were a good deal
surprised at its apparent grandeur. It was a four-storied brick dwelling
on Twenty-seventh Street. As they looked from the outside, they were
afraid that the price of staying in such a place would be too much for
their pockets. Inside, the sight of the hard, gaudily upholstered
instalment-plan furniture did not disillusion them, and they continued
to fear that they could never stop at this fine place. But they found
Mrs. Jones, the proprietress, both gracious and willing to come to terms
with them.

As Mrs. Hamilton -- she began to be Mrs. Hamilton now, to the exclusion of
Fannie -- would have described Mrs. Jones, she was a
She had a broad good-natured face and a tendency to run to bust
she said
It was a relief to the Hamiltons to find Mrs. Jones so gracious and
home-like. So the matter was settled, and they took up their abode with
her and sent for their baggage.

With the first pause in the rush that they had experienced since
starting away from home, Mrs. Hamilton began to have time for
reflection, and their condition seemed to her much better as it was. Of
course, it was hard to be away from home and among strangers, but the
arrangement had this advantage,-- that no one knew them or could taunt
them with their past trouble. She was not sure that she was going to
like New York. It had a great name and was really a great place, but the
very bigness of it frightened her and made her feel alone, for she knew
that there could not be so many people together without a deal of
wickedness. She did not argue the complement of this, that the amount of
good would also be increased, but this was because to her evil was the
very present factor in her life.

Joe and Kit were differently affected by what they saw about them. The
boy was wild with enthusiasm and with a desire to be a part of all that
the metropolis meant. In the evening he saw the young fellows passing by
dressed in their spruce clothes, and he wondered with a sort of envy
where they could be going. Back home there had been no place much worth
going to, except church and one or two people's houses. But these young
fellows seemed to show by their manners that they were neither going to
church nor a family visiting. In the moment that he recognised this, a
revelation came to him,-- the knowledge that his horizon had been very
narrow, and he felt angry that it was so. Why should those fellows be
different from him? Why should they walk the streets so knowingly, so
independently, when he knew not whither to turn his steps? Well, he was
in New York, and now he would learn. Some day some greenhorn from the
South should stand at a window and look out envying him, as he passed,
red-cravated, patent-leathered, intent on some goal. Was it not better,
after all, that circumstances had forced them thither? Had it not been
so, they might all have stayed home and stagnated. Well, thought he, it
's an ill wind that blows nobody good, and somehow, with a guilty
under-thought, he forgot to feel the natural pity for his father,
toiling guiltless in the prison of his native State.

Whom the Gods wish to destroy they first make mad. The first sign of the
demoralisation of the provincial who comes to New York is his pride at
his insensibility to certain impressions which used to influence him at
home. First, he begins to scoff, and there is no truth in his views nor
depth in his laugh. But by and by, from mere pretending, it becomes
real. He grows callous. After that he goes to the devil very cheerfully.

No such radical emotions, however, troubled Kit's mind. She too stood at
the windows and looked down into the street. There was a sort of
complacent calm in the manner in which she viewed the girls' hats and
dresses. Many of them were really pretty, she told herself, but for the
most part they were not better than what she had had down home. There
was a sound quality in the girl's make-up that helped her to see through
the glamour of mere place and recognise worth for itself. Or it may have
been the critical faculty, which is prominent in most women, that kept
her from thinking a five-cent cheese-cloth any better in New York than
it was at home. She had a certain self-respect which made her value
herself and her own traditions higher than her brother did his.

When later in the evening the porter who had been kind to them came in
and was introduced as Mr. William Thomas, young as she was, she took his
open admiration for her with more coolness than Joe exhibited when
Thomas offered to show him something of the town some day or night.

Mr. Thomas was a loquacious little man with a confident air born of an
intense admiration of himself. He was the idol of a number of
servant-girls' hearts, and altogether a decidedly dashing back-area-way
Don Juan
he burst forth, a few minutes after being
introduced
said Joe wisely, in what he thought was going to be quite
a man-of-the-world manner. But he burned with shame the next minute
because his voice sounded so weak and youthful. Then too the oracle only
said "Yes" to him, and went on expatiating to Kitty on the glories of
the metropolis
Mrs. Jones put in
Mr. Thomas took the pail and went to the corner. As he left the room,
Mrs. Jones slapped her knee and laughed until her bust shook like jelly
she said
Joe felt distinctly flattered, for he found their new acquaintance
charming. His mother was still a little doubtful, and Kitty was sure she
found the young man
He came in pretty soon with his beer, and a half-dozen crabs in a bag
Mrs. Jones brought in the glasses, and the young man filled one and
turned to Kitty
she said with a surprised look
broke in her mother with mild resentment
Joe felt as if the "chillen" had ruined all his hopes, but Kitty rose.

The ingratiating "N' Yawker" was aghast
said Mrs. Jones heartily
said Mr.
Thomas, as he poured out a glass and handed it to Joe
said the boy with an air, but not looking at his
mother
she cried to him
Then she stopped suddenly, and Joe gulped his beer and
Kitty went to the piano to relieve her embarrassment
said the irrepressible
Thomas
With the pretty shyness of girlhood, Kitty sang one or two little songs
in the simple manner she knew. Her voice was full and rich. It delighted
Mr. Thomas
he cried
said Mrs.
Hamilton
The mother hesitated, and Joe filled the breach
he said
Mrs. Hamilton made no further demur, and the matter was closed.

Awhile later the "Rag-time" man came down and gave them a sample of what
they were to hear the next night. Mr. Thomas and Mrs. Jones two-stepped,
and they sent a boy after some more beer. Joe found it a very jolly
evening, but Kit's and the mother's hearts were heavy as they went up to
bed
said Mr. Thomas when they had gone
Fannie Hamilton, tired as she was, sat long into the night with her
little family discussing New York,-- its advantages and disadvantages,
its beauty and its ugliness, its morality and immorality. She had
somewhat receded from her first position, that it was better being here
in the great strange city than being at home where the very streets
shamed them. She had not liked the way that their fellow lodger looked
at Kitty. It was bold, to say the least. She was not pleased, either,
with their new acquaintance's familiarity. And yet, he had said no more
than some stranger, if there could be such a stranger, would have said
down home. There was a difference, however, which she recognised. Thomas
was not the provincial who puts every one on a par with himself, nor was
he the metropolitan who complacently patronises the whole world. He was
trained out of the one and not up to the other. The intermediate only
succeeded in being offensive. Mrs. Jones' assurance as to her guest's
fine qualities did not do all that might have been expected to reassure
Mrs. Hamilton in the face of the difficulties of the gentleman's manner.

She could not, however, lay her finger on any particular point that
would give her the reason for rejecting his friendly advances. She got
ready the next evening to go to the theatre with the rest. Mr. Thomas at
once possessed himself of Kitty and walked on ahead, leaving Joe to
accompany his mother and Mrs. Jones,-- an arrangement, by the way, not
altogether to that young gentleman's taste. A good many men bowed to
Thomas in the street, and they turned to look enviously after him. At
the door of the theatre they had to run the gantlet of a dozen pairs of
eyes. Here, too, the party's guide seemed to be well known, for some one
said, before they passed out of hearing
Mrs. Hamilton had been in a theatre but once before in her life, and Joe
and Kit but a few times oftener. On those occasions they had sat far up
in the peanut gallery in the place reserved for people of colour. This
was not a pleasant, cleanly, nor beautiful locality, and by contrast
with it, even the garishness of the cheap New York theatre seemed fine
and glorious.

They had good seats in the first balcony, and here their guide had shown
his managerial ability again, for he had found it impossible, or said
so, to get all the seats together, so that he and the girl were in the
row in front and to one side of where the rest sat. Kitty did not like
the arrangement, and innocently suggested that her brother take her seat
while she went back to her mother. But her escort overruled her
objections easily, and laughed at her so frankly that from very shame
she could not urge them again, and they were soon forgotten in her
wonder at the mystery and glamour that envelops the home of the drama.
There was something weird to her in the alternate spaces of light and
shade. Without any feeling of its ugliness, she looked at the curtain as
at a door that should presently open between her and a house of wonders.
She looked at it with the fascination that one always experiences for
what either brings near or withholds the unknown.

As for Joe, he was not bothered by the mystery or the glamour of things.
But he had suddenly raised himself in his own estimation. He had gazed
steadily at a girl across the aisle until she had smiled in response. Of
course, he went hot and cold by turns, and the sweat broke out on his
brow, but instantly he began to swell. He had made a decided advance in
knowledge, and he swelled with the consciousness that already he was
coming to be a man of the world. He looked with a new feeling at the
swaggering, sporty young negroes. His attitude towards them was not one
of humble self-depreciation any more. Since last night he had grown,
and felt that he might, that he would, be like them, and it put a sort
of chuckling glee into his heart.

One might find it in him to feel sorry for this small-souled, warped
being, for he was so evidently the jest of Fate, if it were not that he
was so blissfully, so conceitedly, unconscious of his own nastiness.
Down home he had shaved the wild young bucks of the town, and while
doing it drunk in eagerly their unguarded narrations of their gay
exploits. So he had started out with false ideals as to what was fine
and manly. He was afflicted by a sort of moral and mental astigmatism
that made him see everything wrong. As he sat there to-night, he gave to
all he saw a wrong value and upon it based his ignorant desires.

When the men of the orchestra filed in and began tuning their
instruments, it was the signal for an influx of loiterers from the door.
There were a large number of coloured people in the audience, and
because members of their own race were giving the performance, they
seemed to take a proprietary interest in it all. They discussed its
merits and demerits as they walked down the aisle in much the same tone
that the owners would have used had they been wondering whether the
entertainment was going to please the people or not.

Finally the music struck up one of the numerous negro marches. It was
accompanied by the rhythmic patting of feet from all parts of the house.
Then the curtain went up on a scene of beauty. It purported to be a
grove to which a party of picnickers, the ladies and gentlemen of the
chorus, had come for a holiday, and they were telling the audience all
about it in crescendos. With the exception of one, who looked like a
faded kid glove, the men discarded the grease paint, but the women under
their make-ups ranged from pure white, pale yellow, and sickly greens to
brick reds and slate grays. They were dressed in costumes that were not
primarily intended for picnic going. But they could sing, and they did
sing, with their voices, their bodies, their souls. They threw
themselves into it because they enjoyed and felt what they were doing,
and they gave almost a semblance of dignity to the tawdry music and
inane words.

Kitty was enchanted. The airily dressed women seemed to her like
creatures from fairy-land. It is strange how the glare of the footlights
succeeds in deceiving so many people who are able to see through other
delusions. The cheap dresses on the street had not fooled Kitty for an
instant, but take the same cheese-cloth, put a little water starch into
it, and put it on the stage, and she could see only chiffon.

She turned around and nodded delightedly at her brother, but he did not
see her. He was lost, transfixed. His soul was floating on a sea of
sense. He had eyes and ears and thoughts only for the stage. His nerves
tingled and his hands twitched. Only to know one of those radiant
creatures, to have her speak to him, smile at him! If ever a man was
intoxicated, Joe was. Mrs. Hamilton was divided between shame at the
clothes of some of the women and delight with the music. Her companion
was busy pointing out who this and that actress was, and giving
jelly-like appreciation to the doings on the stage.

Mr. Thomas was the only cool one in the party. He was quietly taking
stock of his young companion,-- of her innocence and charm. She was a
pretty girl, little and dainty, but well developed for her age. Her hair
was very black and wavy, and some strain of the South's chivalric blood,
which is so curiously mingled with the African in the veins of most
coloured people, had tinged her skin to an olive hue
he leaned over and whispered to her. His
voice was very confidential and his lips near her ear, but she did not
notice
she answered
he said wisely
Between the first and second acts a number of Thomas's friends strolled
up to where he sat and began talking, and again Kitty's embarrassment
took possession of her as they were introduced one by one. They treated
her with a half-courteous familiarity that made her blush. Her mother
was not pleased with the many acquaintances that her daughter was
making, and would have interfered had not Mrs. Jones assured her that
the men clustered about their host's seat were some of the
Joe looked at them hungrily, but the man in front with his
sister did not think it necessary to include the brother or the rest of
the party in his miscellaneous introductions.

One brief bit of conversation which the mother overheard especially
troubled her
asked one of the men, as he was
turning away from Thomas
The fellow gave a horse laugh and replied
The girl's mother half rose, but she resumed her seat, for the man was
going away. Her mind was not quiet again, however, until the people were
all in their seats and the curtain had gone up on the second act. At
first she was surprised at the enthusiasm over just such dancing as she
could see any day from the loafers on the street corners down home, and
then, like a good, sensible, humble woman, she came around to the idea
that it was she who had always been wrong in putting too low a value on
really worthy things. So she laughed and applauded with the rest, all
the while trying to quiet something that was tugging at her away down in
her heart.

When the performance was over she forced her way to Kitty's side, where
she remained in spite of all Thomas's palpable efforts to get her away.
Finally he proposed that they all go to supper at one of the coloured
cafes
he said
said Mrs. Hamilton decidedly
She was conscious of a growing dislike for this man who treated her
daughter with such a proprietary air. Joe winced again at
Thomas bit his lip, and mentally said things that are unfit for
publication. Aloud he said
said the girl
Joe told himself that Kitty was the biggest fool that it had ever been
his lot to meet, and the disappointed suitor satisfied himself with the
reflection that the girl was green yet, but would get bravely over that.

He attempted to hold her hand as they parted at the parlour door, but
she drew her fingers out of his clasp and said
as if he had been one of her mother's old friends.

Joe lingered a little longer
he said
asked the other carelessly
the boy went
on eagerly
Some time. Was it true? Would he really take him out and let him meet
stage people? Joe went to bed with his head in a whirl. He slept little
that night for thinking of his heart's desire
Whatever else his visit to the theatre may have done for Joe, it
inspired him with a desire to go to work and earn money of his own, to
be independent both of parental help and control, and so be able to
spend as he pleased. With this end in view he set out to hunt for work.
It was a pleasant contrast to his last similar quest, and he felt it
with joy. He was treated everywhere he went with courtesy, even when no
situation was forthcoming. Finally he came upon a man who was willing to
try him for an afternoon. From the moment the boy rightly considered
himself engaged, for he was master of his trade. He began his work with
heart elate. Now he had within his grasp the possibility of being all
that he wanted to be. Now Thomas might take him out at any time and not
be ashamed of him.

With Thomas, the fact that Joe was working put the boy in an entirely
new light. He decided that now he might be worth cultivating. For a week
or two he had ignored him, and, proceeding upon the principle that if
you give corn to the old hen she will cluck to her chicks, had treated
Mrs. Hamilton with marked deference and kindness. This had been without
success, as both the girl and her mother held themselves politely aloof
from him. He began to see that his hope of winning Kitty's affections
lay, not in courting the older woman but in making a friend of the boy.
So on a certain Saturday night when the Banner Club was to give one of
its smokers, he asked Joe to go with him. Joe was glad to, and they set
out together. Arrived, Thomas left his companion for a few moments while
he attended, as he said, to a little business. What he really did was to
seek out the proprietor of the club and some of its hangers on
he said
exclaimed the proprietor
said a young man who, on
account of his usual expression of innocent gloom, was called Sadness
and Sadness looked more mournful than ever
said the portly proprietor; and
Thomas went back to the lamb
he said
They went, and Thomas ordered
cried Joe, trembling with joy
said his companion with fine
generosity
As they stood at the bar, the men began strolling up one by one. Each in
his turn was introduced to Joe. They were very polite. They treated him
with a pale, dignified, high-minded respect that menaced his pocket-book
and possessions. The proprietor, Mr. Turner, asked him why he had never
been in before. He really seemed much hurt about it, and on being told
that Joe had only been in the city for a couple of weeks expressed
emphatic surprise, even disbelief, and assured the rest that any one
would have taken Mr. Hamilton for an old New Yorker.

Sadness was introduced last. He bowed to Joe's
he said, with an expression of deep gloom
Joe was not quite sure how to take this; but the others laughed and he
joined them, and then, to cover his own embarrassment, he did what he
thought the only correct and manly thing to do,-- he ordered a drink
said Sadness
his companions called out
said Thomas
was Joe's opportune remark, and he was pleased to see
that it caused the reluctant one to yield.

They took a drink. There was quite a line of them. Joe asked the
bartender what he would have. The men warmed towards him. They took
several more drinks with him and he was happy. Sadness put his arm about
his shoulder and told him, with tears in his eyes, that he looked like a
cousin of his that had died
said some one else
Sadness turned his mournful eyes upon the speaker
he
replied
Joe did not quite take this, so he ordered
another drink.

A group of young fellows came in and passed up the stairs
said one of them significantly
Thomas and Joe left the crowd after a while, and went to the upper
floor, where, in a long, brilliantly lighted room, tables were set out
for drinking-parties. At one end of the room was a piano, and a man sat
at it listlessly strumming some popular air. The proprietor joined them
pretty soon, and steered them to a table opposite the door
he said
Joe's heart gave a great leap, and then settled as cold as lead. Of
course, those girls would n't speak to him. But his hopes rose as the
proprietor went on talking to him and to no one else. Mr. Turner always
made a man feel as if he were of some consequence in the world, and men
a good deal older than Joe had been fooled by his manner. He talked to
one in a soft, ingratiating way, giving his whole attention apparently.
He tapped one confidentially on the shoulder, as who should say
Joe, charmed and pleased, kept his head well. There is a great deal in
heredity, and his father had not been Maurice Oakley's butler for so
many years for nothing.

The Banner Club was an institution for the lower education of negro
youth. It drew its pupils from every class of people and from every part
of the country. It was composed of all sorts and conditions of men,
educated and uneducated, dishonest and less so, of the good, the bad,
and the -- unexposed. Parasites came there to find victims, politicians
for votes, reporters for news, and artists of all kinds for colour and
inspiration. It was the place of assembly for a number of really bright
men, who after days of hard and often unrewarded work came there and
drunk themselves drunk in each other's company, and when they were drunk
talked of the eternal verities.

The Banner was only one of a kind. It stood to the stranger and the man
and woman without connections for the whole social life. It was a
substitute -- poor, it must be confessed -- to many youths for the home life
which is so lacking among certain classes in New York.

Here the rounders congregated, or came and spent the hours until it was
time to go forth to bout or assignation. Here too came sometimes the
curious who wanted to see something of the other side of life. Among
these, white visitors were not infrequent,-- those who were young enough
to be fascinated by the bizarre, and those who were old enough to know
that it was all in the game. Mr. Skaggs, of the New York _Universe_, was
one of the former class and a constant visitor,-- he and a "lady friend"
called
who had a penchant for dancing to "Rag-time" melodies
as only the "puffessor" of such a club can play them. Of course, the
place was a social cesspool, generating a poisonous miasma and reeking
with the stench of decayed and rotten moralities. There is no defence to
be made for it. But what do you expect when false idealism and fevered
ambition come face to face with catering cupidity?

It was into this atmosphere that Thomas had introduced the boy Joe, and
he sat there now by his side, firing his mind by pointing out the
different celebrities who came in and telling highly flavoured stories
of their lives or doings. Joe heard things that had never come within
the range of his mind before
Maudie -- a portly, voluptuous-looking brunette -- left her escort and went
directly to the space by the piano. Here she was soon dancing with one
of the coloured girls who had come in.

Skaggs started to sit down alone at a table, but Thomas called him
In the moment that it took the young man to reach them, Joe wondered if
he would ever reach that state when he could call that white man Skaggsy
and the girl Maudie. The new-comer soon set all of that at ease
It was such a supreme moment that Joe could not find words to answer, so
he called for another drink
said Skaggsy
They got their drinks, and then Skaggsy leaned over confidentially and
began talking
Joe said that he did. Indeed Skaggsy struck one as being aggressively
unprejudiced.

He went on
It was the same old story that the white who associates with negroes
from volition usually tells to explain his taste.

The truth about the young reporter was that he was born and reared on a
Vermont farm, where his early life was passed in fighting for his very
subsistence. But this never troubled Skaggsy. He was a monumental liar,
and the saving quality about him was that he calmly believed his own
lies while he was telling them, so no one was hurt, for the deceiver
was as much a victim as the deceived. The boys who knew him best used to
say that when Skaggs got started on one of his debauches of lying, the
Recording Angel always put on an extra clerical force
he went on
Joe was wide-eyed with wonder and admiration, and he could n't
understand the amused expression on Thomas's face, nor why he
surreptitiously kicked him under the table.

Finally the reporter went his way, and Joe's sponsor explained to him
that he was not to take in what Skaggsy said, and that there had n't
been a word of truth in it. He ended with
The boy was distinctly shocked. He was n't sure but Thomas was jealous
of the attention the white man had shown him and wished to belittle it.
Anyway, he did not thank him for destroying his romance.

About eleven o'clock, when the people began to drop in from the plays,
the master of ceremonies opened proceedings by saying that
There was a patter of applause, and a young negro came forward, and in a
strident, music-hall voice, sung or rather recited with many gestures
the ditty. He could n't have been much older than Joe, but already his
face was hard with dissipation and foul knowledge. He gave the song
with all the rank suggestiveness that could be put into it. Joe looked
upon him as a hero. He was followed by a little, brown-skinned fellow
with an immature Vandyke beard and a lisp. He sung his own composition
and was funny; how much funnier than he himself knew or intended, may
not even be hinted at. Then, while an instrumentalist, who seemed to
have a grudge against the piano, was hammering out the opening bars of a
march, Joe's attention was attracted by a woman entering the room, and
from that moment he heard no more of the concert. Even when the master
of ceremonies announced with an air that, by special request, he himself
would sing
the request was his own,-- he did not draw the
attention of the boy away from the yellow-skinned divinity who sat at a
near table, drinking whiskey straight.

She was a small girl, with fluffy dark hair and good features. A tiny
foot peeped out from beneath her rattling silk skirts. She was a
good-looking young woman and daintily made, though her face was no
longer youthful, and one might have wished that with her complexion she
had not run to silk waists in magenta.

Joe, however, saw no fault in her. She was altogether lovely to him, and
his delight was the more poignant as he recognised in her one of the
girls he had seen on the stage a couple of weeks ago. That being true,
nothing could keep her from being glorious in his eyes,-- not even the
grease-paint which adhered in unneat patches to her face, nor her taste
for whiskey in its unreformed state. He gazed at her in ecstasy until
Thomas, turning to see what had attracted him, said with a laugh
Again the young fellow was dumb. Just then Hattie also noticed his
intent look, and nodded and beckoned to Thomas
he said, rising
cried Joe, tremulous and eager.

His companion went away laughing
asked Hattie
Joe could hardly believe in his own good luck, and his head, which was
getting a bit weak, was near collapsing when his divinity asked him what
he 'd have? He began to protest, until she told the waiter with an air
of authority to make it a little
Then she asked him for a
cigarette, and began talking to him in a pleasant, soothing way between
puffs.

When the drinks came, she said to Thomas
Thomas answered
but obediently gulped his whiskey
and withdrew, while Joe laughed until the master of ceremonies stood up
and looked sternly at him.

The concert had long been over and the room was less crowded when Thomas
sauntered back to the pair
he said
and he gave Joe a long wink
said Joe, woozily
was Hattie's farewell remark.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was late the next morning when Joe got home. He had a headache and a
sense of triumph that not even his illness and his mother's reproof
could subdue.

He had promised Hattie to come often to the club
Mrs. Hamilton began to question very seriously whether she had done the
best thing in coming to New York as she saw her son staying away more
and more and growing always farther away from her and his sister. Had
she known how and where he spent his evenings, she would have had even
greater cause to question the wisdom of their trip. She knew that
although he worked he never had any money for the house, and she foresaw
the time when the little they had would no longer suffice for Kitty and
her. Realising this, she herself set out to find something to do.

It was a hard matter, for wherever she went seeking employment, it was
always for her and her daughter, for the more she saw of Mrs. Jones, the
less she thought it well to leave the girl under her influence. Mrs.
Hamilton was not a keen woman, but she had a mother's intuitions, and
she saw a subtle change in her daughter. At first the girl grew wistful
and then impatient and rebellious. She complained that Joe was away from
them so much enjoying himself, while she had to be housed up like a
prisoner. She had receded from her dignified position, and twice of an
evening had gone out for a car-ride with Thomas; but as that gentleman
never included the mother in his invitation, she decided that her
daughter should go no more, and she begged Joe to take his sister out
sometimes instead. He demurred at first, for he now numbered among his
city acquirements a fine contempt for his woman relatives. Finally,
however, he consented, and took Kit once to the theatre and once for a
ride. Each time he left her in the care of Thomas as soon as they were
out of the house, while he went to find or to wait for his dear Hattie.
But his mother did not know all this, and Kit did not tell her. The
quick poison of the unreal life about her had already begun to affect
her character. She had grown secretive and sly. The innocent longing
which in a burst of enthusiasm she had expressed that first night at the
theatre was growing into a real ambition with her, and she dropped the
simple old songs she knew to practise the detestable coon ditties which
the stage demanded.

She showed no particular pleasure when her mother found the sort of
place they wanted, but went to work with her in sullen silence. Mrs.
Hamilton could not understand it all, and many a night she wept and
prayed over the change in this child of her heart. There were times when
she felt that there was nothing left to work or fight for. The letters
from Berry in prison became fewer and fewer. He was sinking into the
dull, dead routine of his life. Her own letters to him fell off. It was
hard getting the children to write. They did not want to be bothered,
and she could not write for herself. So in the weeks and months that
followed she drifted farther away from her children and husband and all
the traditions of her life.

After Joe's first night at the Banner Club he had kept his promise to
Hattie Sterling and had gone often to meet her. She had taught him much,
because it was to her advantage to do so. His greenness had dropped from
him like a garment, but no amount of sophistication could make him deem
the woman less perfect. He knew that she was much older than he, but he
only took this fact as an additional sign of his prowess in having won
her. He was proud of himself when he went behind the scenes at the
theatre or waited for her at the stage door and bore her off under the
admiring eyes of a crowd of gapers. And Hattie? She liked him in a
half-contemptuous, half-amused way. He was a good-looking boy and made
money enough, as she expressed it, to show her a good time, so she was
willing to overlook his weakness and his callow vanity
she said to him one day
He looked at her, startled for a moment, until he saw the laughter in
her eyes. Then he caught her and kissed her
he said
His face turned brick-red with fear and shame
he
stammered.

Had that girl told all and undone him? But Hattie was going on about her
work and evidently knew nothing
she went on banteringly
he thought. Was she mocking him? Was she restraining her
scorn of him only to make his humiliation the greater after a while? He
looked at her, but there was no suspicion of malice in her face, and he
took hope
he said
All that afternoon, after going to the barber-shop, Joe was driven by a
tempest of conflicting emotions. If Minty Brown had not told his story,
why not? Would she yet tell, and if she did, what would happen? He
tortured himself by questioning if Hattie would cast him off. At the
very thought his hand trembled, and the man in the chair asked him if he
had n't been drinking.

When he met Minty in the evening, however, the first glance at her
reassured him. Her face was wreathed in smiles as she came forward and
held out her hand
she exclaimed
He was so happy that he could
n't let go her hand
He had forgotten them and their scorn of
Minty
He hesitated for a moment. He knew how his mother, if not Kit, would
receive her, and yet he dared not anger this woman, who had his fate in
the hollow of her hand.

She saw his hesitation and spoke up
he said, and gave her his
mother's address. Then he hastened home to prepare the way for Minty's
coming. Joe had no doubt but that his mother would see the matter quite
as he saw it, and be willing to temporise with Minty; but he had
reckoned without his host. Mrs. Hamilton might make certain concessions
to strangers on the score of expediency, but she absolutely refused to
yield one iota of her dignity to one whom she had known so long as an
inferior
was his mother's only reply
Kitty put in
The girl began to cry, while her brother walked the floor angrily
he cried
Fannie looked at her son, and she seemed to see him more clearly than
she had ever seen him before,-- his foppery, his meanness, his cowardice
she answered with a sigh
the boy reiterated.

Minty Brown allowed no wind of thought to cool the fire of her
determination. She left Hattie Sterling's soon after Joe, and he was
still walking the floor and uttering dire forebodings when she rang the
bell below and asked for the Hamiltons.

Mrs. Jones ushered her into her fearfully upholstered parlour, and then
puffed up stairs to tell her lodgers that there was a friend there from
the South who wanted to see them
said Mrs. Hamilton
Kitty broke in
said her mother
puffed Mrs. Jones
Minty Brown downstairs had heard the little colloquy, and, perceiving
that something was amiss, had come to the stairs to listen. Now her
voice, striving hard to be condescending and sweet, but growing harsh
with anger, floated up from below
Mrs. Jones gasped, and then turned and went hastily downstairs.

Kit burst out crying afresh, and Joe walked the floor muttering beneath
his breath, while the mother sat grimly watching the outcome. Finally
they heard Mrs. Jones' step once more on the stairs. She came in without
knocking, and her manner was distinctly unpleasant
she said
She
flashed a vindictive glance at the girl, who turned deadly pale and
dropped her head in her hands
And Mrs. Jones looked at Fannie's face and obeyed.

As soon as the woman's back was turned, Joe burst out
Fannie turned on him like a tigress
The boy started to
speak, but she checked him
The boy was cowed by his mother's manner. He was gathering his few
belongings in a bundle
he said sullenly
she said
Joe got out of the house as soon as possible. He did not speak to Kit
nor look at his mother. He felt like a cur, because he knew deep down in
his heart that he had only been waiting for some excuse to take this
step.

As he slammed the door behind him, his mother flung herself down by
Kit's side and mingled her tears with her daughter's. But Kit did not
raise her head
but the girl did not speak,
she only shook with hard sobs.

Then her mother raised her head and almost screamed
The girl rose, and then dropped unconscious in her mother's arms.

Joe took his clothes to a lodging-house that he knew of, and then went
to the club to drink himself up to the point of going to see Hattie
after the show
What Joe Hamilton lacked more than anything else in the world was some
one to kick him. Many a man who might have lived decently and become a
fairly respectable citizen has gone to the dogs for the want of some one
to administer a good resounding kick at the right time. It is corrective
and clarifying.

Joe needed especially its clarifying property, for though he knew
himself a cur, he went away from his mother's house feeling himself
somehow aggrieved, and the feeling grew upon him the more he thought of
it. His mother had ruined his chance in life, and he could never hold up
his head again. Yes, he had heard that several of the fellows at the
club had shady reputations, but surely to be the son of a thief or a
supposed thief was not like being the criminal himself.

At the Banner he took a seat by himself, and, ordering a cocktail, sat
glowering at the few other lonely members who had happened to drop in.
There were not many of them, and the contagion of unsociability had
taken possession of the house. The people sat scattered around at
different tables, perfectly unmindful of the bartender, who cursed them
under his breath for not
Joe's mind was filled with bitter thoughts. How long had he been away
from home? he asked himself. Nearly a year. Nearly a year passed in New
York, and he had come to be what he so much desired,-- a part of its fast
life,-- and now in a moment an old woman's stubbornness had destroyed all
that he had builded.

What would Thomas say when he heard it? What would the other fellows
think? And Hattie? It was plain that she would never notice him again.
He had no doubt but that the malice of Minty Brown would prompt her to
seek out all of his friends and make the story known. Why had he not
tried to placate her by disavowing sympathy with his mother? He would
have had no compunction about doing so, but he had thought of it too
late. He sat brooding over his trouble until the bartender called with
respectful sarcasm to ask if he wanted to lease the glass he had.

He gave back a silly laugh, gulped the rest of the liquor down, and was
ordering another when Sadness came in. He came up directly to Joe and
sat down beside him
he said
with easy familiarity
Joe glared at him. Why in the devil should this fellow be so sadly gay
when he was weighted down with sorrow and shame and disgust
Young Hamilton hastened to protest
The desire came to Joe to tell this man the whole truth, just what was
the matter, and so to relieve his heart. On the impulse he did. If he
had expected much from Sadness he was disappointed, for not a muscle of
the man's face changed during the entire recital.

When it was over, he looked at his companion critically through a wreath
of smoke. Then he said
Joe started and gave a gasp of horror
Sadness laughed a peculiar laugh, and there was a look in his terribly
bright eyes that made Joe creep. If he could only have understood all
that the man was saying to him, he might even yet have turned back. But
he did n't. He ordered another drink. The only effect that the talk of
Sadness had upon him was to make him feel wonderfully
It gave
him a false bravery, and he mentally told himself that now he would not
be afraid to face Hattie.

He put out his hand to Sadness with a knowing look
he said
Sadness brushed the proffered hand away and sprung up
he
cried
and he turned
hastily away from the table.

Joe looked surprised at first, and then laughed at his friend's
retreating form
he said
There was not a lie in all that Sadness had said either as to their
crime or their condition. He belonged to a peculiar class,-- one that
grows larger and larger each year in New York and which has imitators in
every large city in this country. It is a set which lives, like the
leech, upon the blood of others,-- that draws its life from the veins of
foolish men and immoral women, that prides itself upon its well-dressed
idleness and has no shame in its voluntary pauperism. Each member of the
class knows every other, his methods and his limitations, and their
loyalty one to another makes of them a great hulking, fashionably
uniformed fraternity of indolence. Some play the races a few months of
the year; others, quite as intermittently, gamble at "shoestring"
politics, and waver from party to party as time or their interests seem
to dictate. But mostly they are like the lilies of the field.

It was into this set that Sadness had sarcastically invited Joe, and
Joe felt honoured. He found that all of his former feelings had been
silly and quite out of place; that all he had learned in his earlier
years was false. It was very plain to him now that to want a good
reputation was the sign of unpardonable immaturity, and that dishonour
was the only real thing worth while. It made him feel better.

He was just rising bravely to swagger out to the theatre when Minty
Brown came in with one of the club-men he knew. He bowed and smiled, but
she appeared not to notice him at first, and when she did she nudged her
companion and laughed.

Suddenly his little courage began to ooze out, and he knew what she must
be saying to the fellow at her side, for he looked over at him and
grinned. Where now was the philosophy of Sadness? Evidently Minty had
not been brought under its educating influences, and thought about the
whole matter in the old, ignorant way. He began to think of it too.
Somehow old teachings and old traditions have an annoying way of coming
back upon us in the critical moments of life, although one has long ago
recognised how much truer and better some newer ways of thinking are.
But Joe would not allow Minty to shatter his dreams by bringing up these
old notions. She must be instructed.

He rose and went over to her table
he said, offering his hand
she said angrily
said Minty's young man; and he looked menacing.

Joe, what little self-respect he had gone, slunk out of the room and
needed several whiskeys in a neighbouring saloon to give him courage to
go to the theatre and wait for Hattie, who was playing in vaudeville
houses pending the opening of her company.

The closing act was just over when he reached the stage door. He was
there but a short time, when Hattie tripped out and took his arm. Her
face was bright and smiling, and there was no suggestion of disgust in
the dancing eyes she turned up to him. Evidently she had not heard, but
the thought gave him no particular pleasure, as it left him in suspense
as to how she would act when she should hear
she said
His heart seemed to stand still. She did know, then
He
chuckled. He had taken heart again. All that Sadness had said was true,
after all, and people thought no less of him. His joy was unbounded
he broke out, unable any longer to control himself
When they reached the Banner, they found Minty still there. She tried on
the two the same tactics that she had employed so successfully upon Joe
alone. She nudged her companion and tittered. But she had another
person to deal with. Hattie Sterling stared at her coldly and
indifferently, and passed on by her to a seat. Joe proceeded to order
supper and other things in the nonchalant way that the woman had
enjoined upon him. Minty began to feel distinctly uncomfortable, but it
was her business not to be beaten. She laughed outright. Hattie did not
seem to hear her. She was beckoning Sadness to her side. He came and sat
down
she said
she called down the
long room to the bartender
said Sadness,
turning his mournful eyes upon Minty
He kept his eyes fixed upon the outsider until she squirmed.
She could not at all understand this serious conversation directed at
her. She wondered if she had gone too far and if they contemplated
putting her out. It made her uneasy.

Now, this same Miss Sterling had the faculty of attracting a good deal
of attention when she wished to. She brought it into play to-night, and
in ten minutes, aided by Sadness, she had a crowd of jolly people about
her table. When, as she would have expressed it
she suddenly paused and, turning her eyes full upon Minty, said in
a voice loud enough for all to hear
They had
was the rousing reply, and every face turned
towards the now frightened Minty. She rose hastily and, getting her
skirts together, fled from the room, followed more leisurely by the
crestfallen Griggs. Hattie's laugh and
followed
her out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Matters were less easy for Joe's mother and sister than they were for
him. A week or more after this, Kitty found him and told him that
Minty's story had reached their employers and that they were out of
work
she said sadly
Joe was so smitten with sorrow that he gave her a dollar and promised to
speak about the matter to a friend of his.

He did speak about it to Hattie
was Hattie's answer.

When Kitty heard it she was radiant, but her mother only shook her head
and said
Kitty proved herself Joe's sister by falling desperately in love with
Hattie Sterling the first time they met. The actress was very gracious
to her, and called her "child" in a pretty, patronising way, and patted
her on the cheek
Already Joe took on a new importance in his sister's eyes. He must be
quite a man, she thought, to be the friend of such a person as Miss
Sterling
Miss Sterling talked as if she were a manager and had only to snap her
fingers to be obeyed. When Joe came back with the beer, Kitty drank a
glass. She did not like it, but she would not offend her hostess. After
this she sang, and Miss Sterling applauded her generously, although the
young girl's nervousness kept her from doing her best. The encouragement
helped her, and she did better as she became more at home
The young man had little to say. He had brought Kitty almost under a
protest, because he had no confidence in her ability and thought that
his "girl" would disillusion her. It did not please him now to find his
sister so fully under the limelight and himself
Kitty was quite in a flutter of delight; not so much with the idea of
working as with the glamour of the work she might be allowed to do
Hattie Sterling pursued, throwing a brightly
stockinged foot upon a chair
Kitty, unwilling to refuse anything from the sorceress, took her
cigarette and lighted it, but a few puffs set her off coughing
Joe wanted to kick his sister for having tried so delicate an art and
failed, for he had not yet lost all of his awe of Hattie
the lady resumed after several
contemplative puffs
She gave a laugh that had just a touch of bitterness in it, for she
began to recognise that although she had been on the stage only a short
time, she was no longer the all-conquering Hattie Sterling, in the first
freshness of her youth
Kit expostulated
Joe here thought it time for him to put in a word
he
said contemptuously
She did n't deign to notice him, save so far as a sniff goes
Kitty felt herself dismissed and rose to go. Joe did not rise
he said
he
added, when his sister was gone
said Hattie
Joe remarked wisely
And Joe went, feeling vaguely that he had been sat upon.

Kit flew home with joyous heart to tell her mother of her good
prospects. She burst into the room, crying
She did not meet with the expected warmth of response from her mother
Kit hung her head
Kit did not reply, but there was no yielding in her manner
her mother went on
She hesitated
The mother looked up to see just what effect her plea would have on her
daughter. She hoped that what she said would have the desired result.
But the girl turned around from fixing her neck-ribbon before the glass,
her face radiant
Her mother dropped her head in her hands
she said
And Mrs. Hamilton rose and tottered from the room,
as if the old age she anticipated had already come upon her.

Kit stood looking after her, fear and grief in her eyes
she
said
On the next morning she was up early and practising hard for her
interview with the managing star of
When she arrived at the theatre, Hattie Sterling met her with frank
friendliness
she remarked
When Mr. Martin came in that morning, he had other ideas than that of
seeing applicants for places. His show must begin in two weeks, and it
was advertised to be larger and better than ever before, when really
nothing at all had been done for it. The promise of this advertisement
must be fulfilled. Mr. Martin was late, and was out of humour with every
one else on account of it. He came in hurried, fierce, and important
He shot every word out of his mouth as if the after-taste of it were
unpleasant to him. He walked among the chorus like an angry king among
his vassals, and his glance was a flash of insolent fire. From his head
to his feet he was the very epitome of self-sufficient, brutal conceit.

Kitty trembled as she noted the hush that fell on the people at his
entrance. She felt like rushing out of the room. She could never face
this terrible man. She trembled more as she found his eyes fixed upon
her
he asked, disregarding her, as if she had been a stick or
a stone
said Hattie. She was the only one who would brave Martin
He disappeared behind a screen, whence he emerged arrayed, or only half
arrayed, in a thick absorbing shirt and a thin pair of woollen trousers.
Then the work began. The man was indefatigable. He was like the spirit
of energy. He was in every place about the stage at once, leading the
chorus, showing them steps, twisting some awkward girl into shape,
shouting, gesticulating, abusing the pianist
he would shout
and he would drop his head in despair
Then he would
turn to them again with a sudden reaccession of eagerness
And some blushing girl would come forward and go through the
step alone before all the rest.

Kitty contemplated the scene with a mind equally divided between fear
and anger. What should she do if he should so speak to her? Like the
others, no doubt, smile sheepishly and obey him. But she did not like to
believe it. She felt that the independence which she had known from
babyhood would assert itself, and that she would talk back to him, even
as Hattie Sterling did. She felt scared and discouraged, but every now
and then her friend smiled encouragingly upon her across the ranks of
moving singers.

Finally, however, her thoughts were broken in upon by hearing Mr. Martin
cry
Kitty rose and went toward him, trembling so that she could hardly walk
very faintly
And he ran over the titles of several songs. She knew some of them, and
he selected one
It was an ordeal for the girl to go through. She had never sung before
at anything more formidable than a church concert, where only her
immediate acquaintances and townspeople were present. Now to sing before
all these strange people, themselves singers, made her feel faint and
awkward. But the courage of desperation came to her, and she struck into
the song. At the first her voice wavered and threatened to fail her. It
must not. She choked back her fright and forced the music from her lips.

When she was done, she was startled to hear Martin burst into a raucous
laugh. Such humiliation! She had failed, and instead of telling her, he
was bringing her to shame before the whole company. The tears came into
her eyes, and she was about giving way when she caught a reassuring nod
and smile from Hattie Sterling, and seized on this as a last hope
laughed Martin
Kitty's heart had suddenly grown light. She sang the second one better
because something within her was singing
said Martin, but he immediately returned to his cold manner
He immediately turned his attention from her to the chorus, but no
slight that he could inflict upon her now could take away the sweet
truth that she was engaged and to-morrow would begin work. She wished
she could go over and embrace Hattie Sterling. She thought kindly of
Joe, and promised herself to give him a present out of her first month's
earnings.

On the first night of the show pretty little Kitty Hamilton was pointed
out as a girl who would n't be in the chorus long. The mother, who was
soon to be Mrs. Gibson, sat in the balcony, a grieved, pained look on
her face. Joe was in a front row with some of the rest of the gang. He
took many drinks between the acts, because he was proud.

Mr. Thomas was there. He also was proud, and after the performance he
waited for Kitty at the stage door and went forward to meet her as she
came out. The look she gave him stopped him, and he let her pass without
a word
he mused
Hattie Sterling took Joe home in a hansom
she said
Joe growled and fell asleep in his chair. One must needs have a strong
head or a strong will when one is the brother of a celebrity and would
celebrate the distinguished one's success
A year after the arrest of Berry Hamilton, and at a time when New York
had shown to the eyes of his family so many strange new sights, there
were few changes to be noted in the condition of affairs at the Oakley
place. Maurice Oakley was perhaps a shade more distrustful of his
servants, and consequently more testy with them. Mrs. Oakley was the
same acquiescent woman, with unbounded faith in her husband's wisdom and
judgment. With complacent minds both went their ways, drank their wine,
and said their prayers, and wished that brother Frank's five years were
past. They had letters from him now and then, never very cheerful in
tone, but always breathing the deepest love and gratitude to them.

His brother found deep cause for congratulation in the tone of these
epistles
he would cry exultantly
And her only answer would
be
The two had frequent questions to answer as to Frank's doing and
prospects, and they had always bright things to say of him, even when
his letters gave them no such warrant. Their love for him made them read
large between the lines, and all they read was good.

Between Maurice and his brother no word of the guilty servant ever
passed. They each avoided it as an unpleasant subject. Frank had never
asked and his brother had never proffered aught of the outcome of the
case.

Mrs. Oakley had once suggested it
she said
replied her husband
Their hearts were still steadfastly fixed upon the union of this younger
brother with Claire Lessing. She had lately come into a fortune, and
there was nothing now to prevent it. They would have written Frank to
urge it, but they both believed that to try to woo him away from his art
was but to make him more wayward. That any woman could have power enough
to take him away from this jealous mistress they very much doubted. But
they could hope, and hope made them eager to open every letter that bore
the French postmark. Always it might contain news that he was coming
home, or that he had made a great success, or, better, some inquiry
after Claire. A long time they had waited, but found no such tidings in
the letters from Paris.

At last, as Maurice Oakley sat in his library one day, the servant
brought him a letter more bulky in weight and appearance than any he had
yet received. His eyes glistened with pleasure as he read the postmark
he said joyfully
He smiled as he weighed it in his hand and caressed it. Mrs. Oakley was
out shopping, and as he knew how deep her interest was, he hesitated to
break the seal before she returned. He curbed his natural desire and
laid the heavy envelope down on the desk. But he could not deny himself
the pleasure of speculating as to its contents.

It was such a large, interesting-looking package. What might it not
contain? It simply reeked of possibilities. Had any one banteringly told
Maurice Oakley that he had such a deep vein of sentiment, he would have
denied it with scorn and laughter. But here he found himself sitting
with the letter in his hand and weaving stories as to its contents.

First, now, it might be a notice that Frank had received the badge of
the Legion of Honour. No, no, that was too big, and he laughed aloud at
his own folly, wondering the next minute, with half shame, why he
laughed, for did he, after all, believe anything was too big for that
brother of his? Well, let him begin, anyway, away down. Let him say, for
instance, that the letter told of the completion and sale of a great
picture. Frank had sold small ones. He would be glad of this, for his
brother had written him several times of things that were a-doing, but
not yet of anything that was done. Or, better yet, let the letter say
that some picture, long finished, but of which the artist's pride and
anxiety had forbidden him to speak, had made a glowing success, the
success it deserved. This sounded well, and seemed not at all beyond the
bounds of possibility. It was an alluring vision. He saw the picture
already. It was a scene from life, true in detail to the point of very
minuteness, and yet with something spiritual in it that lifted it above
the mere copy of the commonplace. At the Salon it would be hung on the
line, and people would stand before it admiring its workmanship and
asking who the artist was. He drew on his memory of old reading. In his
mind's eye he saw Frank, unconscious of his own power or too modest to
admit it, stand unknown among the crowds around his picture waiting for
and dreading their criticisms. He saw the light leap to his eyes as he
heard their words of praise. He saw the straightening of his narrow
shoulders when he was forced to admit that he was the painter of the
work. Then the windows of Paris were filled with his portraits. The
papers were full of his praise, and brave men and fair women met
together to do him homage. Fair women, yes, and Frank would look upon
them all and see reflected in them but a tithe of the glory of one
woman, and that woman Claire Lessing. He roused himself and laughed
again as he tapped the magic envelope
he muttered
The letter drew his eyes back to it. It seemed to invite him, to beg him
even
His dreams were taking the shape of reality in his mind, and he was
believing all that he wanted to believe.

He turned to look at a picture painted by Frank which hung over the
mantel. He dwelt lovingly upon it, seeing in it the touch of a genius
he said
He glanced again at the letter, and his hand went out involuntarily
towards it. He fondled it, smiling
He essayed to be playful, but he knew that he was trying to make a
compromise with himself because his eagerness grew stronger than his
gallantry. He laid the letter down and picked it up again. He studied
the postmark over and over. He got up and walked to the window and back
again, and then began fumbling in his pockets for his knife. No, he did
not want it; yes, he did. He would just cut the envelope and make
believe he had read it to pique his wife; but he would not read it. Yes,
that was it. He found the knife and slit the paper. His fingers
trembled as he touched the sheets that protruded. Why would not Leslie
come? Did she not know that he was waiting for her? She ought to have
known that there was a letter from Paris to-day, for it had been a month
since they had had one.

There was a sound of footsteps without. He sprang up, crying
A servant opened the door to bring him a
message. Oakley dismissed him angrily. What did he want to go down to
the Continental for to drink and talk politics to a lot of muddle-pated
fools when he had a brother in Paris who was an artist and a letter from
him lay unread in his hand? His patience and his temper were going.
Leslie was careless and unfeeling. She ought to come; he was tired of
waiting.

A carriage rolled up the driveway and he dropped the letter guiltily, as
if it were not his own. He would only say that he had grown tired of
waiting and started to read it. But it was only Mrs. Davis's footman
leaving a note for Leslie about some charity.

He went back to the letter. Well, it was his. Leslie had forfeited her
right to see it as soon as he. It might be mean, but it was not
dishonest. No, he would not read it now, but he would take it out and
show her that he had exercised his self-control in spite of her
shortcomings. He laid it on the desk once more. It leered at him. He
might just open the sheets enough to see the lines that began it, and
read no further. Yes, he would do that. Leslie could not feel hurt at
such a little thing.

The first line had only
Dear Brother"! Why not the
second? That could not hold much more. The second line held him, and the
third, and the fourth, and as he read on, unmindful now of what Leslie
might think or feel, his face turned from the ruddy glow of pleasant
anxiety to the pallor of grief and terror. He was not half-way through
it when Mrs. Oakley's voice in the hall announced her coming. He did
not hear her. He sat staring at the page before him, his lips apart and
his eyes staring. Then, with a cry that echoed through the house,
crumpling the sheets in his hand, he fell forward fainting to the floor,
just as his wife rushed into the room
she cried
He lay on the floor staring up at the ceiling, the letter clutched in
his hands. She ran to him and lifted up his head, but he gave no sign of
life. Already the servants were crowding to the door. She bade one of
them to hasten for a doctor, others to bring water and brandy, and the
rest to be gone. As soon as she was alone, she loosed the crumpled
sheets from his hand, for she felt that this must have been the cause of
her husband's strange attack. Without a thought of wrong, for they had
no secrets from each other, she glanced at the opening lines. Then she
forgot the unconscious man at her feet and read the letter through to
the end.

The letter was in Frank's neat hand, a little shaken, perhaps, by
nervousness
it ran
By the time the servants came they found Mrs. Oakley as white as her
lord. But with firm hands and compressed lips she ministered to his
needs pending the doctor's arrival. She bathed his face and temples,
chafed his hands, and forced the brandy between his lips. Finally he
stirred and his hands gripped
he gasped
he cried. She handed it to him. He seized it and thrust
it into his breast
He turned upon his face and began to weep passionately, not like a man,
but like a child whose last toy has been broken
he moaned
Suddenly he sat up and his eyes stared straight into hers
he said calmly
he cried, clutching at his breast
She saw that he was overwrought, and so did not argue with him.

When the doctor came, he found Maurice Oakley in bed, but better. The
medical man diagnosed the case and decided that he had received some
severe shock. He feared too for his heart, for the patient constantly
held his hands pressed against his bosom. In vain the doctor pleaded; he
would not take them down, and when the wife added her word, the
physician gave up, and after prescribing, left, much puzzled in mind
he said
It was soon common talk about the town about Maurice Oakley's attack. In
the seclusion of his chamber he was saying to his wife
he cried, starting up excitedly
So they wrote a lie to Frank, and buried the secret in their breasts,
and Oakley wore its visible form upon his heart
Five years is but a short time in the life of a man, and yet many things
may happen therein. For instance, the whole way of a family's life may
be changed. Good natures may be made into bad ones and out of a soul of
faith grow a spirit of unbelief. The independence of respectability may
harden into the insolence of defiance, and the sensitive cheek of
modesty into the brazen face of shamelessness. It may be true that the
habits of years are hard to change, but this is not true of the first
sixteen or seventeen years of a young person's life, else Kitty Hamilton
and Joe could not so easily have become what they were. It had taken
barely five years to accomplish an entire metamorphosis of their
characters. In Joe's case even a shorter time was needed. He was so
ready to go down that it needed but a gentle push to start him, and once
started, there was nothing within him to hold him back from the depths.
For his will was as flabby as his conscience, and his pride, which
stands to some men for conscience, had no definite aim or direction.

Hattie Sterling had given him both his greatest impulse for evil and for
good. She had at first given him his gentle push, but when she saw that
his collapse would lose her a faithful and useful slave she had sought
to check his course. Her threat of the severance of their relations had
held him up for a little time, and she began to believe that he was safe
again. He went back to the work he had neglected, drank moderately, and
acted in most things as a sound, sensible being. Then, all of a sudden,
he went down again, and went down badly. She kept her promise and threw
him over. Then he became a hanger-on at the clubs, a genteel loafer. He
used to say in his sober moments that at last he was one of the boys
that Sadness had spoken of. He did not work, and yet he lived and ate
and was proud of his degradation. But he soon tired of being separated
from Hattie, and straightened up again. After some demur she received
him upon his former footing. It was only for a few months. He fell
again. For almost four years this had happened intermittently. Finally
he took a turn for the better that endured so long that Hattie Sterling
again gave him her faith. Then the woman made her mistake. She warmed to
him. She showed him that she was proud of him. He went forth at once to
celebrate his victory. He did not return to her for three days. Then he
was battered, unkempt, and thick of speech.

She looked at him in silent contempt for a while as he sat nursing his
aching head
she said finally with cutting scorn
He groaned and his head sunk lower. A drunken man is always disarmed.

His helplessness, instead of inspiring her with pity, inflamed her with
an unfeeling anger that burst forth in a volume of taunts
She laughed meanly and began to sing
For the first time he looked up, and his eyes were full of tears -- tears
both of grief and intoxication. There was an expression of a whipped dog
on his face
he pleaded, stretching out his hands to her.

Her eyes blazed back at him, but she sang on insolently, tauntingly.

The very inanity of the man disgusted her, and on a sudden impulse she
sprang up and struck him full in the face with the flat of her hand. He
was too weak to resist the blow, and, tumbling from the chair, fell
limply to the floor, where he lay at her feet, alternately weeping aloud
and quivering with drunken, hiccoughing sobs
she cried
He had already begun to fall into a drunken sleep, but she shook him,
got him to his feet, and pushed him outside the door
He stood outside, swaying dizzily upon his feet and looking back with
dazed eyes at the door, then he muttered
and he half walked,
half fell down the street.

Sadness and Skaggsy were together at the club that night. Five years had
not changed the latter as to wealth or position or inclination, and he
was still a frequent visitor at the Banner. He always came in alone now,
for Maudie had gone the way of all the half-world, and reached depths to
which Mr. Skaggs's job prevented him from following her. However, he
mourned truly for his lost companion, and to-night he was in a
particularly pensive mood.

Some one was playing rag-time on the piano, and the dancers were
wheeling in time to the music. Skaggsy looked at them regretfully as he
sipped his liquor. It made him think of Maudie. He sighed and turned
away
he said impulsively
replied Sadness
The reporter did not like this. It savoured of flippancy, and he was
about entering upon a discussion to prove that Sadness had no soul, when
Joe, with blood-shot eyes and dishevelled clothes, staggered in and
reeled towards them
said Sadness
as the young man brought up against him
He put him in a chair at the table
They drank, and then, as if the whiskey had done him good, Joe sat up in
his chair
Skaggs smoked in silence and looked at Joe
He paused and looked at them drowsily. Then,
bracing himself up again, he broke out suddenly
He threatened to fall asleep now, but the reporter was all alert. He
scented a story
he exclaimed
said Sadness
The drink seemed to revive the young man again, and by bits Skaggs was
able to pick out of him the story of his father's arrest and conviction.
At its close he relapsed into stupidity, murmuring
sneered Sadness
And
Sadness rose. The reporter sat thinking for a time and then followed
him, leaving Joe in a drunken sleep at the table. There he lay for more
than two hours. When he finally awoke, he started up as if some
determination had come to him in his sleep. A part of the helplessness
of his intoxication had gone, but his first act was to call for more
whiskey. This he gulped down, and followed with another and another. For
a while he stood still, brooding silently, his red eyes blinking at the
light. Then he turned abruptly and left the club.

It was very late when he reached Hattie's door, but he opened it with
his latch-key, as he had been used to do. He stopped to help himself to
a glass of brandy, as he had so often done before. Then he went directly
to her room. She was a light sleeper, and his step awakened her
she cried in affright
His voice was steadier now, but grim
She sprang up in bed, glaring angrily at him.

His hands twitched nervously, as if her will were conquering him and he
were uneasy, but he held her eye with his own
he said
She started to rise, but he took a step towards her and she paused. He
looked as she had never seen him look before. His face was ashen and his
eyes like fire and blood. She quailed beneath the look. He took another
step towards her
he repeated
His step was steady and his tone was clear, menacingly clear. She shrank
back from him, back to the wall. Still his hands twitched and his eye
held her. Still he crept slowly towards her, his lips working and his
hands moving convulsively
she said hoarsely
The gown had fallen away from her breast and showed the convulsive
fluttering of her heart.

He broke into a laugh, a dry, murderous laugh, and his hands sought each
other while the fingers twitched over one another like coiling serpents
The realisation
of what he was, of his foulness and degradation, seemed just to have
come to him fully
She gazed at him fascinated. She tried to scream and she could not. This
was not Joe. This was not the boy that she had turned and twisted about
her little finger. This was a terrible, terrible man or a monster.

He moved a step nearer her. His eyes fell to her throat. For an instant
she lost their steady glare and then she found her voice. The scream was
checked as it began. His fingers had closed over her throat just where
the gown had left it temptingly bare. They gave it the caress of death.
She struggled. They held her. Her eyes prayed to his. But his were the
fire of hell. She fell back upon her pillow in silence. He had not
uttered a word. He held her. Finally he flung her from him like a rag,
and sank into a chair. And there the officers found him when Hattie
Sterling's disappearance had become a strange thing
When Joe was taken, there was no spirit or feeling left in him. He moved
mechanically, as if without sense or volition. The first impression he
gave was that of a man over-acting insanity. But this was soon removed
by the very indifference with which he met everything concerned with his
crime. From the very first he made no effort to exonerate or to
vindicate himself. He talked little and only in a dry, stupefied way. He
was as one whose soul is dead, and perhaps it was; for all the little
soul of him had been wrapped up in the body of this one woman, and the
stroke that took her life had killed him too.

The men who examined him were irritated beyond measure. There was
nothing for them to exercise their ingenuity upon. He left them nothing
to search for. Their most damning question he answered with an apathy
that showed absolutely no interest in the matter. It was as if some one
whom he did not care about had committed a crime and he had been called
to testify. The only thing which he noticed or seemed to have any
affection for was a little pet dog which had been hers and which they
sometimes allowed to be with him after the life sentence had been passed
upon him and when he was awaiting removal. He would sit for hours with
the little animal in his lap, caressing it dumbly. There was a mute
sorrow in the eyes of both man and dog, and they seemed to take comfort
in each other's presence. There was no need of any sign between them.
They had both loved her, had they not? So they understood.

Sadness saw him and came back to the Banner, torn and unnerved by the
sight
he said with a shudder
And so Sadness and all the club, with a muttered
dismissed
him. He was gone. Why should they worry? Only one more who had got into
the whirlpool, enjoyed the sensation for a moment, and then swept
dizzily down. There were, indeed, some who for an earnest hour
sermonised about it and said
They wanted to
preach to these people that good agriculture is better than bad
art,-- that it was better and nobler for them to sing to God across the
Southern fields than to dance for rowdies in the Northern halls. They
wanted to dare to say that the South has its faults -- no one condones
them -- and its disadvantages, but that even what they suffered from these
was better than what awaited them in the great alleys of New York. Down
there, the bodies were restrained, and they chafed; but here the soul
would fester, and they would be content.

This was but for an hour, for even while they exclaimed they knew that
there was no way, and that the stream of young negro life would continue
to flow up from the South, dashing itself against the hard necessities
of the city and breaking like waves against a rock,-- that, until the
gods grew tired of their cruel sport, there must still be sacrifices to
false ideals and unreal ambitions.

There was one heart, though, that neither dismissed Joe with gratuitous
pity nor sermonised about him. The mother heart had only room for grief
and pain. Already it had borne its share. It had known sorrow for a lost
husband, tears at the neglect and brutality of a new companion, shame
for a daughter's sake, and it had seemed already filled to overflowing.
And yet the fates had put in this one other burden until it seemed it
must burst with the weight of it.

To Fannie Hamilton's mind now all her boy's shortcomings became as
naught. He was not her wayward, erring, criminal son. She only
remembered that he was her son, and wept for him as such. She forgot his
curses, while her memory went back to the sweetness of his baby prattle
and the soft words of his tenderer youth. Until the last she clung to
him, holding him guiltless, and to her thought they took to prison, not
Joe Hamilton, a convicted criminal, but Joey, Joey, her boy, her
firstborn,-- a martyr.

The pretty Miss Kitty Hamilton was less deeply impressed. The arrest
and subsequent conviction of her brother was quite a blow. She felt the
shame of it keenly, and some of the grief. To her, coming as it did just
at a time when the company was being strengthened and she more
importantly featured than ever, it was decidedly inopportune, for no one
could help connecting her name with the affair.

For a long time she and her brother had scarcely been upon speaking
terms. During Joe's frequent lapses from industry he had been prone to
"touch" his sister for the wherewithal to supply his various wants.
When, finally, she grew tired and refused to be
he rebuked
her for withholding that which, save for his help, she would never have
been able to make. This went on until they were almost entirely
estranged. He was wont to say that
and she to retort that her brother
From the time that she went on the stage she had begun to live her own
life, a life in which the chief aim was the possession of good clothes
and the ability to attract the attention which she had learned to crave.
The greatest sign of interest she showed in her brother's affair was, at
first, to offer her mother money to secure a lawyer. But when Joe
confessed all, she consoled herself with the reflection that perhaps it
was for the best, and kept her money in her pocket with a sense of
satisfaction. She was getting to be so very much more Joe's sister. She
did not go to see her brother. She was afraid it might make her nervous
while she was in the city, and she went on the road with her company
before he was taken away.

Miss Kitty Hamilton had to be very careful about her nerves and her
health. She had had experiences, and her voice was not as good as it
used to be, and her beauty had to be aided by cosmetics. So she went
away from New York, and only read of all that happened when some one
called her attention to it in the papers.

Berry Hamilton in his Southern prison knew nothing of all this, for no
letters had passed between him and his family for more than two years.
The very cruelty of destiny defeated itself in this and was kind
There was, perhaps, more depth to Mr. Skaggs than most people gave him
credit for having. However it may be, when he got an idea into his head,
whether it were insane or otherwise, he had a decidedly tenacious way of
holding to it. Sadness had been disposed to laugh at him when he
announced that Joe's drunken story of his father's troubles had given
him an idea. But it was, nevertheless, true, and that idea had stayed
with him clear through the exciting events that followed on that fatal
night. He thought and dreamed of it until he had made a working theory.
Then one day, with a boldness that he seldom assumed when in the sacred
Presence, he walked into the office and laid his plans before the
editor. They talked together for some time, and the editor seemed hard
to convince
he said
Skaggs shot out of the office, and within an hour and a half had boarded
a fast train for the South.

It is almost a question whether Skaggs had a theory or whether he had
told himself a pretty story and, as usual, believed it. The editor was
right. No one else would have thought of the wild thing that was in the
reporter's mind. The detective had not thought of it five years before,
nor had Maurice Oakley and his friends had an inkling, and here was one
of the New York _Universe's_ young men going miles to prove his idea
about something that did not at all concern him.

When Skaggs reached the town which had been the home of the Hamiltons,
he went at once to the Continental Hotel. He had as yet formulated no
plan of immediate action and with a fool's or a genius' belief in his
destiny he sat down to await the turn of events. His first move would be
to get acquainted with some of his neighbours. This was no difficult
matter, as the bar of the Continental was still the gathering-place of
some of the city's choice spirits of the old regime. Thither he went,
and his convivial cheerfulness soon placed him on terms of equality with
many of his kind.

He insinuated that he was looking around for business prospects. This
proved his open-sesame. Five years had not changed the Continental
frequenters much, and Skaggs's intention immediately brought Beachfield
Davis down upon him with the remark
drivelled old Horace Talbot
The old man laughed
inanely. The hotel whiskey was getting on his nerves.

The reporter opened his eyes and his ears. He had stumbled upon
something, at any rate
he asked respectfully
broke in Davis
interjected Colonel Saunders
said Talbot
said Davis
As unobtrusively as they could, they drew apart from the others and
seated themselves at a more secluded table, leaving Talbot and Davis
wrangling, as of old, over their theories. When the glasses were filled
and the pipes going, the Colonel began his story, interlarding it
frequently with comments of his own
he said when the tale was done
The Colonel leaned across the table and his voice fell to a
whisper
Skaggs was trembling with eagerness.

The Colonel dropped his voice lower
he said
Skaggs had got all that he wanted; much more, in fact, than he had
expected. The Colonel held him for a while yet to enlarge upon the views
that he had expressed.

When the reporter finally left him, it was with a cheery
He went upstairs chuckling
he cried as he flung himself
into a chair
He sat down to think out what he should do to-morrow.
Again, with his fine disregard of ways and means, he determined to trust
to luck, and as he expressed it
Accordingly he went about nine o'clock the next morning to Oakley's
house. A gray-haired, sad-eyed woman inquired his errand
he said
replied Skaggs, descending one step
cried a querulous voice behind the woman's back
Mrs. Oakley stepped from the door and Skaggs went in. Had he seen
Oakley before he would have been shocked at the change in his
appearance; but as it was, the nervous, white-haired man who stood
shiftily before him told him nothing of an eating secret long carried.
The man's face was gray and haggard, and deep lines were cut under his
staring, fish-like eyes. His hair tumbled in white masses over his
pallid forehead, and his lips twitched as he talked
he said
His motions were nervous and erratic. Skaggs followed him into the
library, and the wife disappeared in another direction.

It would have been hard to recognise in the Oakley of the present the
man of a few years before. The strong frame had gone away to bone, and
nothing of his old power sat on either brow or chin. He was as a man who
trembled on the brink of insanity. His guilty secret had been too much
for him, and Skaggs's own fingers twitched as he saw his host's hands
seek the breast of his jacket every other moment
he said to himself
But Oakley himself proceeded to give him his first
cue
Skaggs's mind worked quickly. He remembered the Colonel's story.
Evidently the brother had something to do with the secret
he thought. So he said boldly
The man sprung up, clutching again at his breast
The reporter looked steadily at the man. He knew that he was in his
power, that his very eagerness would prove traitor to his discretion
Oakley had shrunken back as if he had been struck
he gasped
The reporter moved nearer him. The old man shrunk against the wall, his
lips working convulsively and his hand tearing at his breast as Skaggs
drew nearer. He attempted to shriek, but his voice was husky and broke
off in a gasping whisper
Skaggs seized him. Oakley struggled weakly, but he had no strength. The
reporter's hand sought the secret pocket. He felt a paper beneath his
fingers. Oakley gasped hoarsely as he drew it forth. Then raising his
voice gave one agonised cry, and sank to the floor frothing at the
mouth. At the cry rapid footsteps were heard in the hallway, and Mrs.
Oakley threw open the door
she cried
was the cool answer
Skaggs had not reckoned on this, but his wits came to the rescue
he said
She wrung her hands helplessly, crying
He moved towards the door, but she sprang in front of him with the
fierceness of a tigress protecting her young. She attacked him with
teeth and nails. She was pallid with fury, and it was all he could do to
protect himself and yet not injure her. Finally, when her anger had
taken her strength, he succeeded in getting out. He flew down the
hall-way and out of the front door, the woman's screams following him.
He did not pause to read the precious letter until he was safe in his
room at the Continental Hotel. Then he sprang to his feet, crying
Mr. Skaggs had no qualms of conscience about the manner in which he had
come by the damaging evidence against Maurice Oakley. It was enough for
him that he had it. A corporation, he argued, had no soul, and therefore
no conscience. How much less, then, should so small a part of a great
corporation as himself be expected to have them?

He had his story. It was vivid, interesting, dramatic. It meant the
favour of his editor, a big thing for the _Universe_, and a fatter
lining for his own pocket. He sat down to put his discovery on paper
before he attempted anything else, although the impulse to celebrate was
very strong within him.

He told his story well, with an eye to every one of its salient points.
He sent an alleged picture of Berry Hamilton as he had appeared at the
time of his arrest. He sent a picture of the Oakley home and of the
cottage where the servant and his family had been so happy. There was a
strong pen-picture of the man, Oakley, grown haggard and morose from
carrying his guilty secret, of his confusion when confronted with the
supposed knowledge of it. The old Southern city was described, and the
opinions of its residents in regard to the case given. It was
there -- clear, interesting, and strong. One could see it all as if every
phase of it were being enacted before one's eyes. Skaggs surpassed
himself.

When the editor first got hold of it he said
over the opening
lines,-- a few short sentences that instantly pricked the attention
awake. He read on with increasing interest
he
said at the last page
The _Universe_ had always claimed to be the friend of all poor and
oppressed humanity, and every once in a while it did something to
substantiate its claim, whereupon it stood off and said to the public
The _Universe_ was yellow. It was very so. But it had power
and keenness and energy. It never lost an opportunity to crow, and if
one was not forthcoming, it made one. In this way it managed to do a
considerable amount of good, and its yellowness became forgivable, even
commendable. In Skaggs's story the editor saw an opportunity for one of
its periodical philanthropies. He seized upon it. With headlines that
took half a page, and with cuts authentic and otherwise, the tale was
told, and the people of New York were greeted next morning with the
announcement of
Then Skaggs received a telegram that made him leap for joy. He was to do
it. He was to go to the capital of the State. He was to beard the
Governor in his den, and he, with the force of a great paper behind him,
was to demand for the people the release of an innocent man. Then there
would be another write-up and much glory for him and more shekels. In an
hour after he had received his telegram he was on his way to the
Southern capital.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile in the house of Maurice Oakley there were sad times. From the
moment that the master of the house had fallen to the floor in impotent
fear and madness there had been no peace within his doors. At first his
wife had tried to control him alone, and had humoured the wild babblings
with which he woke from his swoon. But these changed to shrieks and
cries and curses, and she was forced to throw open the doors so long
closed and call in help. The neighbours and her old friends went to her
assistance, and what the reporter's story had not done, the ravings of
the man accomplished; for, with a show of matchless cunning, he
continually clutched at his breast, laughed, and babbled his secret
openly. Even then they would have smothered it in silence, for the
honour of one of their best families; but too many ears had heard, and
then came the yellow journal bearing all the news in emblazoned
headlines.

Colonel Saunders was distinctly hurt to think that his confidence had
been imposed on, and that he had been instrumental in bringing shame
upon a Southern name
he said generally to the usual assembly of choice
spirits
said old Horace Talbot
Old Horace was inanely eloquent for an hour over his pet theory. But
there were some in the town who thought differently about the matter,
and it was their opinions and murmurings that backed up Skaggs and made
it easier for him when at the capital he came into contact with the
official red tape.

He was told that there were certain forms of procedure, and certain
times for certain things, but he hammered persistently away, the
murmurings behind him grew louder, while from his sanctum the editor of
the _Universe_ thundered away against oppression and high-handed
tyranny. Other papers took it up and asked why this man should be
despoiled of his liberty any longer? And when it was replied that the
man had been convicted, and that the wheels of justice could not be
stopped or turned back by the letter of a romantic artist or the ravings
of a madman, there was a mighty outcry against the farce of justice that
had been played out in this man's case.

The trial was reviewed; the evidence again brought up and examined. The
dignity of the State was threatened. At this time the State did the one
thing necessary to save its tottering reputation. It would not
surrender, but it capitulated, and Berry Hamilton was pardoned.

Berry heard the news with surprise and a half-bitter joy. He had long
ago lost hope that justice would ever be done to him. He marvelled at
the word that was brought to him now, and he could not understand the
strange cordiality of the young white man who met him at the warden's
office. Five years of prison life had made a different man of him. He no
longer looked to receive kindness from his fellows, and he blinked at it
as he blinked at the unwonted brightness of the sun. The lines about his
mouth where the smiles used to gather had changed and grown stern with
the hopelessness of years. His lips drooped pathetically, and hard
treatment had given his eyes a lowering look. His hair, that had hardly
shown a white streak, was as white as Maurice Oakley's own. His
erstwhile quick wits were dulled and imbruted. He had lived like an ox,
working without inspiration or reward, and he came forth like an ox
from his stall. All the higher part of him he had left behind, dropping
it off day after day through the wearisome years. He had put behind him
the Berry Hamilton that laughed and joked and sang and believed, for
even his faith had become only a numbed fancy
said Skaggs, shaking his
hand heartily.

Berry did not answer. What had this slim, glib young man to do with him?
What had any white man to do with him after what he had suffered at
their hands
Skaggs did not tell him that, now that the _Universe_ had done its work,
it demanded the right to crow to its heart's satisfaction. He said only
Berry had forgotten Fannie, and for the first time his heart thrilled
within him at the thought of seeing her again
was the reply. Skaggs could n't tell him, in this
the first hour of his freedom. Let him have time to drink the sweetness
of that all in. There would be time afterwards to taste all of the
bitterness.

Once in New York, he found that people wished to see him, some fools,
some philanthropists, and a great many reporters. He had to be
photographed -- all this before he could seek those whom he longed to see.
They printed his picture as he was before he went to prison and as he
was now, a sort of before-and-after-taking comment, and in the morning
that it all appeared, when the _Universe_ spread itself to tell the
public what it had done and how it had done it, they gave him his wife's
address.

It would be better, they thought, for her to tell him herself all that
happened. No one of them was brave enough to stand to look in his eyes
when he asked for his son and daughter, and they shifted their
responsibility by pretending to themselves that they were doing it for
his own good: that the blow would fall more gently upon him coming from
her who had been his wife. Berry took the address and inquired his way
timidly, hesitatingly, but with a swelling heart, to the door of the
flat where Fannie lived
Had not Berry's years of prison life made him forget what little he knew
of reading, he might have read the name Gibson on the door-plate where
they told him to ring for his wife. But he knew nothing of what awaited
him as he confidently pulled the bell. Fannie herself came to the door.
The news the papers held had not escaped her, but she had suffered in
silence, hoping that Berry might be spared the pain of finding her. Now
he stood before her, and she knew him at a glance, in spite of his
haggard countenance
he said, holding out his arms to her, and all of the pain and
pathos of long yearning was in his voice
She shrank away from him, back in the hall-way
She led him through the passage-way and into her room, he following with
a sudden sinking at his heart. This was not the reception he had
expected from Fannie.

When they were within the room he turned and held out his arms to her
again, but she did not notice them
he
asked brokenly
and she sank into a chair and began rocking to
and fro in her helpless grief
Berry started forward with a cry
she went on dully, as if reciting a rote lesson
He rushed forward and seized
her by the arm
His voice had risen to a fierce roar, like that of a hurt beast, and he
shook her by the arm as he spoke
He glared at her for a moment, and then the real force of the situation
came full upon him, and he bowed his head in his hands and wept like a
child. The great sobs came up and stuck in his throat.

She crept up to him fearfully and laid her hand on his head
she said
He seized her in his arms and held her tightly until he could control
himself. Then he asked weakly
he replied doggedly
She hung her head
He gripped himself hard
she wailed
Berry looked at her hard, and then said in a dry voice
He turned to the door, murmuring
He laughed hoarsely. It sounded like nothing Fannie had
ever heard before
Her faith still hung by a slender thread, but his had given way in that
moment
he laughed as he went out of the door
He staggered down the steps, blinded by his emotions, and set his face
towards the little lodging that he had taken temporarily. There seemed
nothing left in life for him to do. Yet he knew that he must work to
live, although the effort seemed hardly worth while. He remembered now
that the _Universe_ had offered him the under janitorship in its
building. He would go and take it, and some day, perhaps -- He was not
quite sure what the "perhaps" meant. But as his mind grew clearer he
came to know, for a sullen, fierce anger was smouldering in his heart
against the man who through lies had stolen his wife from him. It was
anger that came slowly, but gained in fierceness as it grew.

Yes, that was it, he would kill Gibson. It was no worse than his present
state. Then it would be father and son murderers. They would hang him or
send him back to prison. Neither would be hard now. He laughed to
himself.

And this was what they had let him out of prison for? To find out all
this. Why had they not left him there to die in ignorance? What had he
to do with all these people who gave him sympathy? What did he want of
their sympathy? Could they give him back one tithe of what he had lost?
Could they restore to him his wife or his son or his daughter, his quiet
happiness or his simple faith?

He went to work for the _Universe_, but night after night, armed, he
patrolled the sidewalk in front of Fannie's house. He did not know
Gibson, but he wanted to see them together. Then he would strike. His
vigils kept him from his bed, but he went to the next morning's work
with no weariness. The hope of revenge sustained him, and he took a
savage joy in the thought that he should be the dispenser of justice to
at least one of those who had wounded him.

Finally he grew impatient and determined to wait no longer, but to seek
his enemy in his own house. He approached the place cautiously and went
up the steps. His hand touched the bell-pull. He staggered back
he said.

There was crape on Fannie's bell. His head went round and he held to the
door for support. Then he turned the knob and the door opened. He went
noiselessly in. At the door of Fannie's room he halted, sick with fear.
He knocked, a step sounded within, and his wife's face looked out upon
him. He could have screamed aloud with relief
he whispered huskily
He went in, a wild, strange feeling surging at his heart. She showed him
into the death-chamber.

As he stood and looked down upon the face of his enemy, still, cold, and
terrible in death, the recognition of how near he had come to crime
swept over him, and all his dead faith sprang into new life in a
glorious resurrection. He stood with clasped hands, and no word passed
his lips. But his heart was crying
The gamblers who were sitting up with the dead wondered who the old fool
was who looked at their silent comrade and then raised his eyes as if in
prayer.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Gibson was laid away, there were no formalities between Berry and
his wife; they simply went back to each other. New York held nothing for
them now but sad memories. Kit was on the road, and the father could not
bear to see his son; so they turned their faces southward, back to the
only place they could call home. Surely the people could not be cruel to
them now, and even if they were, they felt that after what they had
endured no wound had power to give them pain.

Leslie Oakley heard of their coming, and with her own hands re-opened
and refurnished the little cottage in the yard for them. There the
white-haired woman begged them to spend the rest of their days and be in
peace and comfort. It was the only amend she could make. As much to
satisfy her as to settle themselves, they took the cottage, and many a
night thereafter they sat together with clasped hands listening to the
shrieks of the madman across the yard and thinking of what he had
brought to them and to himself.

It was not a happy life, but it was all that was left to them, and they
took it up without complaint, for they knew they were powerless against
some Will infinitely stronger than their own
</text>
