<text>
said Emma, willing to let it pass
said Harriet, in a mortified voice
unclosing a pretty sketch of a gentleman in small size, whole-length
observed Mrs. Weston to him -- not in the least suspecting that she was addressing a lover
and was at last forced to add
said the still waiting Harriet
said Harriet, her conscience opposing such censure
said Emma, who had been smiling to herself through a great part of this speech
exclaimed Mr. Knightley loudly and warmly; and with calmer asperity, added, a few moments afterwards
said Emma, smiling, and pushing the paper towards Harriet
said she, presently -- her cheeks in a glow
replied Mr. Elton, though hesitating a good deal while he spoke
said Emma, as they proceeded
cried she with ready sympathy
cried his wife, hearing and understanding only in part
said he, fondly taking her hand, and interrupting, for a few moments, her busy labours for some one of her five children
cried Emma, feeling this to be an unsafe subject
said Mr. Woodhouse, shaking his head and fixing his eyes on her with tender concern.-- The ejaculation in Emma's ear expressed
said he, in a voice of very strong displeasure
cried Mr. Knightley, with most ready interposition
said Mr. John Knightley presently, with some slyness
she replied with a smile of astonishment
replied John Knightley, as they passed through the sweep-gate
replied Mr. Knightley, rather displeased
replied the happily deceived aunt, while eagerly hunting for the letter
replied Miss Bates, highly gratified
said Emma, glancing at Harriet, and beginning to rise
he began, as soon as Mr. Woodhouse had been talked into what was necessary, told that he understood, and the papers swept away
said Mr. Knightley, nearly at the same time
said he, moving from his chair into one close by her
she replied, starting on this appeal
Ford's was the principal woollen-draper, linen-draper, and haberdasher's shop united; the shop first in size and fashion in the place
and turning again to Emma
said she, in mental soliloquy, while walking downstairs from her own room
cried Mr. Weston with exultation
said Mr. Woodhouse, always the last to make his way in conversation
he began rather quickly, but checking himself, added
said he, after a short pause
he replied, and without the smallest apparent embarrassment
said he, when it was finished, thinking aloud
said he, in rather a low voice
said Frank Churchill, with a smile at Emma
said Emma, in a whisper
said she, in a voice of forced calmness
said he, in a deliberating manner
said Mr. Woodhouse, rather warmly
and the gentlemen perhaps thought each to himself
said Mrs. Weston rather hesitating
said Harriet, when they had quitted the house, and after waiting in vain for her friend to begin
Mr. Elton was appealed to
said Emma, beginning hastily and with an arch look, but soon stopping -- it was better, however, to know the worst at once -- she hurried on
said Emma triumphantly when he left them
said Mrs. Weston kindly and persuasively
Emma began, looking also at Mrs. Weston; but stopped, on perceiving that Mrs. Weston was attending to some one else -- and the pause gave her time to reflect
said Jane, shaking her head
repeated Frank Churchill, with a look of surprize and displeasure
to which his prompt reply was
cried Emma, putting her hand before her face, and jumping up
resumed Harriet, turning to her box again
and thought no more of it, till after a minute's silence she heard Harriet say in a very serious tone
and Emma could just catch the words
said Frank Churchill to Mrs. Weston presently
cried Miss Bates, who had been trying in vain to be heard the last two minutes
said Frank Churchill, after examining a table behind him, which he could reach as he sat
cried the latter, though Jane had not spoken a word
she cried in evident embarrassment
said he at last, with earnest kindness
she cried with a most open eagerness
she cried, satisfied to have no one preferred to herself
cried Emma, laughing as carelessly as she could
added her husband, with a sort of sneering consciousness
said Frank Churchill, as soon as they were out of hearing
said Jane to her aunt
Even Mr. Weston shook his head, and looked solemn, and said
said Emma, when they were fairly beyond the sweep gates
cried Emma, standing still with terror
said he, as they entered the room
And Emma distinctly heard him add, in a lower tone, before he quitted the room
returned Mrs. Weston, still averting her eyes, and talking on with eagerness, that Emma might have time to recover
said she at last, trying to recover herself
cried Emma, not attending to her
cried Harriet, coming eagerly into the room
cried Emma, after a moment's pause
cried Emma, collecting herself resolutely
returned Emma, with forced calmness
replied Harriet modestly, but not fearfully
said he quietly, and looking at her
And in a louder, steadier tone, he concluded with
cried he, looking eagerly at her
said Emma, trying to be lively, but really confused
replied Emma -- quite confirmed by the depressed manner in which he still spoke
She could really say nothing
he cried, with great animation
he soon resumed; and in a tone of such sincere, decided, intelligible tenderness as was tolerably convincing
And when Mrs. Bates was saying something to Emma, whispered farther
was the abrupt answer, which denoted the impossibility of any blunder on Mrs. Elton's side
said Mrs. Elton, (feeling the indignity as a wife ought to do
cried Jane, with a blush and an hesitation which Emma thought infinitely more becoming to her than all the elegance of all her usual composure
she added presently, laughing and blushing
interrupted she, with a sort of serious smile
she cried with more thorough gaiety
and, on the point of living at Hartfield, could daringly exclaim
said he, composing his features
answered Mr. Knightley, with smiling but determined decision
Then having recourse to her workbasket, in excuse for leaning down her face, and concealing all the exquisite feelings of delight and entertainment which she knew she must be expressing, she added
he replied, speaking very distinctly
replied Emma, with the brightest smiles
cried Emma, shaking her head
cried Emma, most happy to begin
then sinking his voice, and looking demure for the moment
she presently added, with a look of true sensibility
</text>
