<text>
said Mrs. Tulliver, shocked at this sanguinary rhetoric
said Mrs. Tulliver, in mild surprise
continued Mr. Tulliver after a pause
said Mrs. Tulliver, accepting the last proposition entirely on its own merits
continued Mrs. Tulliver, rising and going to the window
she observed as she sat down
continued the mother, in a tone of half-coaxing fretfulness, as this small mistake of nature entered the room
said Maggie, in a vehemently cross tone
said Maggie, with a toss of her mane
he added, with polite significance
said Mr. Tulliver, winking, and turning his head on one side
here the exultation was clearly recovering the mastery
here Maggie's voice became louder and more emphatic
said Mr. Riley, in an admonitory, patronizing tone as he patted Maggie on the head
she said, running back to Mr. Riley
said Mr. Tulliver, peremptorily, beginning to feel rather uncomfortable at these free remarks on the personal appearance of a being powerful enough to create lawyers
here he lowered his voice
observed Mrs. Tulliver, in the interval
said Mrs. Tulliver, with a slight touch of motherly indignation
concluded Mr. Tulliver, shaking his head
broke in Maggie, who had stolen unperceived to her father's elbow again, listening with parted lips, while she held her doll topsy-turvy, and crushed its nose against the wood of the chair
added Mrs. Tulliver, who had her own alarm awakened
exclaimed Mrs. Tulliver, sitting stout and helpless with the brushes on her lap
said Maggie, rather foiled by Luke's unexpectedly decided views about Dutchmen
said Maggie, wishing to turn the conversation agreeably
said Maggie, in a piteous tone, while the big tears rolled down her cheek
said Tom, confidentially, taking her into a corner, as soon as his mother was gone out to examine his box and the warm parlor had taken off the chill he had felt from the long drive
she said, timidly, when they were out of doors
and Mrs. Tulliver, almost at the same moment, said
said Mr. Tulliver, rather sharply,-- his perspicacity or his fatherly fondness for Maggie making him suspect that the lad had been hard upon
they were of necessity better than those who were
said Maggie, as they sat on the boughs of the elder-tree, eating their jam-puffs
said Tom, slowly, when he had finished his puff, and was eying the third, which was to be divided between them
said Tom, in a tone of deliberation
said Tom, whose mind was prone to see an opposition between statements that were really accordant
said Mrs. Glegg, with a bitter smile and a scarcely perceptible toss of her head
Mrs. Glegg added, in a tone of emphatic protest
said Mrs. Glegg, with the promptitude and emphasis of a mind naturally clear and decided
said Mrs. Pullet, sighing and shaking her head
said Mrs. Glegg, who always cried just as much as was proper when anything happened to her own
added Mrs. Pullet, beginning to cry bitterly again
said Mrs. Glegg, unable any longer to contain her spirit of rational remonstrance
said Mr. Pullet, with a confused sense that he was saying something to sanction his wife's tears
said Mrs. Pullet, who had recovered sufficiently to take off her veil and fold it carefully
she burst out, after kissing her
said aunt Pullet, in a compassionate voice
said Mrs. Tulliver, beckoning Maggie to her, and whispering in her ear, as soon as this point of Lucy's staying was settled
said Tom, jumping round her, and slapping his knees as he laughed
said Tom, peeping into the room ten minutes after
said uncle Glegg, meaning to give a playful turn to this denunciation
said aunt Pullet, in a pitying tone
said her father, soothingly, putting his arm round her
said Mrs. Glegg, in a loud
she said, interrupting her husband in his talk with Mr. Deane
said Mr. Tulliver, rather sharply
he added, looking toward Mr. Glegg and Mr. Deane
said Mrs. Glegg, with a tone of bitter meaning
said Mr. Tulliver, not looking at Mrs. Glegg, but at the male part of his audience
she said, after that introductory note
said Mr. Tulliver, considerably nettled
said Mr. Deane, judiciously introducing a new idea
said Mr. Tulliver, speaking all the more cheerfully, that Mrs. Glegg might see he didn't mind her
said Mrs. Pullet, who felt as if the whole business had a funereal aspect
said Mr. Glegg, interpreting Mrs. Pullet's observation with erroneous plausibility
said Mrs. G., in a tone which implied that her indignation would fizz and ooze a little, though she was determined to keep it corked up
said Mrs. Glegg, rising from her chair
said Mrs. Moss, with a sigh, stroking Lizzy's hair on each side of her forehead
said Mr. Tulliver, feeling that his severity was relaxing and trying to brace it by throwing out a wholesome hint
said the miller, with a new softness in his tone
said Mr. Moss, looking blankly before him
said Mrs. Moss, drying her tears; then turning to Lizzy, she said
said Maggie, at last, going half-way toward him
said Mrs. Pullet, drawing a bunch of keys from her pocket and looking at them earnestly
was a standing question with uncle Pullet; whereupon Tom always looked sheepish, rubbed his hands across his face, and answered
she said, by way of opening the subject
said aunt Pullet, raising her hands and letting them fall again
she added, beginning to cry a little
said Mrs. Tulliver, wiping away one small tear from the corner of her eye
said Mrs. Pullet, holding her head on one side, and fixing her eyes pathetically on her sister
he began, nodding his head up and down with great significance, as he coiled up his string again
he said in a loud whisper
but here justice clearly demanded that Maggie should be visited with the utmost punishment; not that Tom had learned to put his views in that abstract form; he never mentioned
said Tom, when they reached the kitchen door, and Sally looked at them in speechless amaze, with a piece of bread-and-butter in her mouth and a toasting-fork in her hand
aunt Pullet exclaimed, after preluding by an inarticulate scream
said Mrs. Pullet, in a tone of prophetic sadness
she said aloud, without reflecting that there was no one to hear her
said the woman with the baby sitting down by Maggie, and allowing baby to crawl
said Maggie, with some pity
said Maggie, looking at the food without taking it
and being also acquainted with
said the younger man, rising, and leading the donkey forward
said the younger woman, putting that recently despised but now welcome article of costume on Maggie's head
continued Mrs. Glegg, after a pause
she said, rising from her chair, and speaking in rather a choked voice
observed Mrs. Glegg, by way of winding up the subject
whereupon there followed much laughter and some practical joking with the plates, from which Tom gathered that he had in some mysterious way refused beef, and, in fact, made himself appear
he said to Tom, when Mr. Stelling had left the room to announce the arrival to his wife, and Maggie had begun to kiss Tom freely
said Tom at last, lifting up the stand
said Tom, drawing the book away, and wagging his head at her
she said, as she jumped out of the large arm-chair to give it him
Tom took his pencil and made several hard dots with it on his book-cover
said the little conceited minx
she said, that same evening when they were in the drawing-room
said Tom, when they were alone
he observed presently, in a pugnacious tone, as if poor Gritty had been urging that lawyer's capabilities
said Mrs. Tulliver, stroking her dress down
said Mrs. Tulliver, with a faint imitation of her sister Glegg
said Tom, one evening near the end of the holidays
said that gentleman on entering the study
he added, reflecting that Philip might falsely suppose that he was going to
said Tom, nodding his head sideways, as much as to say
said Philip, unable to choke a laugh
Tom would say, at any allusion to the sword
said Tom, a little conscious that he had not stood his ground as became an Englishman
said Tom, when the sword was being finally sheathed
said Mr. Poulter, shaking his head decidedly
said Mr. Poulter, with still deeper gravity
said Tom at last, shutting his books and putting them away with the energy and decision of a perfect master in the art of leaving off
said Tom, in his most coaxing tone
said Philip, after a minute or two, still leaning on his elbow and looking at her
she added, after a pause
were phrases which he had been used to, even as a little boy; they were part of the disgrace and misery of
she went on, lifting things out and turning them over with an excitement all the more strange and piteous because the stout blond woman was usually so passive,-- if she had been ruffled before, it was at the surface merely
she said, looking up at Tom with her eyes full of tears
she added, turning toward the cups and saucers
she exclaimed as she entered
said Mr. Glegg, seating himself good-humoredly
said Mrs. Pullet, in a pleading tone, drawing on her gloves again, and stroking the fingers in an agitated manner
she added, with a sigh
said Mrs. Glegg, with indignant disgust
said poor Mrs. Tulliver, beseechingly
said uncle Pullet, with unwonted independence of idea
said Mrs. Deane, rather loftily
continued Mrs. Glegg, looking severely at Maggie, who had sat down on the sofa by her aunt Deane, drawn to her by the sense that she was Lucy's mother
she said, looking at Mrs. Deane, as she set the tray on the table
said the poor woman, her heart swelling, and the tears coming
said aunt Pullet, shaking her head with deep sadness
he said, looking straight at Mrs. Glegg
he continued, looking at the latter
said Mrs. Glegg, with decision
she added, looking at Mr. Glegg
said Tom, looking up suddenly from his meditative view of the tablecloth
said Tom, coloring, but trying to speak firmly, in spite of a boyish tremor
said Uncle Glegg, whose good feeling led him to enter into Tom's wish, but who could not at once shake off his habitual abhorrence of such recklessness as destroying securities, or alienating anything important enough to make an appreciable difference in a man's property
said uncle Pullet, who had been making haste with his lozenge in order to express his amazement
said Mr. Glegg, who had been meditating after Tom's words
Mr. Glegg added, looking admonishingly at Tom
said good Mrs. Moss, too impulsive to be prudent
said Mr. Tulliver, turning to his sister
he said, as she kissed him
said Mr. Deane, when they were alone, turning his substantial person a little in his chair, and taking out his snuff-box
said Tom, coloring, but speaking in a tone which, though, tremulous, had a certain proud independence in it
said Mr. Deane, reserving his pinch of snuff, and looking at Tom with new attention
said Tom, pausing a little between each item, as if he were turning over the books in his school-desk to assist his memory
he said at last, in rather a cold, sardonic tone
said Mr. Deane, with that tendency to repress youthful hopes which stout and successful men of fifty find one of their easiest duties
said Tom, with a slight complaint in his tone
he went on, as Tom continued to look at him inquiringly
said Tom, with a slight air of patronage, the foregoing reminscences having disposed him to be as friendly as was becoming, though there was no part of his acquaintance with Bob that he remembered better than the cause of their parting quarrel
she burst out, clasping her hands
said Tom, feeling that the subject of the books was unseasonable
he said, coloring, with that little diffident tremor in his voice which gave a certain charm even to Tom's pride and severity
said Bob, with an air of discontent, as Maggie gave him the bag again
said Bob, reluctantly taking the money
said Mrs. Tulliver, starting a little, and speaking more hurriedly
said poor Mrs. Tulliver, a little tear making its way
said Mrs. Tulliver, frightened at a result so different from the one she had fixed her mind on
or getting him to hear reason; no, they would all have to go and live in a pigsty on purpose to spite Wakem, who spoke
she said, when they were out of their father's room together
she had found a certain recompense in keeping a strong hand over her mistress, scolding her for "moithering" herself, and going about all day without changing her cap, and looking as if she was
said Maggie, laying her hand on his
he said, after a minute or two
said Maggie, who thought that terrible word really represented the fact
said Mr. Tulliver, shaking his head slowly
said Luke, as he gave his arm to his master
he said slowly, moving toward his chair
he said, looking at a spot where his finger rested
said poor Mrs. Tulliver, with the strange, scared look that had come over her of late
he said, in a low voice
he said one afternoon, as he stood looking over the orchard gate
said Luke, with soothing sympathy
said his wife, looking up in alarm
said Maggie, starting up with a smile of pleased recognition, for there had been no abundance of kind acts to efface the recollection of Bob's generosity
said Bob, lifting his cap and showing a delighted face, but immediately relieving himself of some accompanying embarrassment by looking down at his dog, and saying in a tone of disgust
he said again, laying the red parcel on the others and unfolding it
Bob went on, turning over the leaves with some excitement
here Bob took up the small stringed packet of books
said Bob, with pitying smile
said Bob, moving on a few steps; then turning half round he said
Gregory's Letters,"-- she knew the sort of matter that was inside all these; the
said Maggie, with simple seriousness, walking on as if she meant Philip to accompany her
said Maggie, smiling, and flushed with pleasure
she added, after a little pause
he said, in a voice that had become feebler from discouragement
she said at last, timidly
here Philip hesitated a little, and then said
said he, turning quickly round and fixing his gray eyes entreatingly on her face
Philip went on, with all the inventive astuteness of love at one-and-twenty
she said at last, turning round and walking toward the way she come
she said, looking smilingly at him, after a few moments of silence
she added, in a saddened tone
said Maggie, walking more hurriedly
said the father, keeping his hand on the money
returned Bob, nodding his head aside
said Mr. Glegg, in an approving tone
said Bob, whose keenness saw at once what was implied
said a severe voice from the open parlor window
said Mrs. G., in a fatal tone
added Bob, laying down his pack on the gravel
stooping and thumping the bundle emphatically with his fist
said aunt Glegg, with eagerness
said Mr. Glegg, rather snappishly
Bob went on, becoming rapid again, and holding up a scarlet woollen Kerchief with an embroidered wreath in the corner
added Bob, flinging it behind him on to the turf, as if to save Mrs. Glegg's eyes
said Bob, looking up with a laughing face
continued Bob, shouldering his pack
said the lady, as her husband took his hat
concluded Mrs. Glegg, turning impressively to her nephew
having been discovered in a cloud of tobacco-smoke at the Anchor Tavern, Mr. Glegg commenced inquiries which turned out satisfactorily enough to warrant the advance of the
said Philip; and Maggie buried her face in her hands while he sang _sotto voce_
he said, in a tone of remonstrance
Philip said, with some effort
said Philip, getting more and more alarmed in every fresh moment of silence
said Maggie, shaking her head, in her old childish way
continued Mrs. Pullet, with her eyes fixed in a ruminating manner
said Mr. Tulliver, jealous for Maggie
said Bob, parenthetically, as he looked over the fields on the other side of the river
she said, urged out of pride into pleading
he added, his voice trembling with indignation
she said in a low voice
said Tom, exasperated by this attitude of Philip's
said Tom, with cold scorn
said Tom, more coldly than ever
said Tom, when they had finished tea
he went on, with a trembling voice
said Tom, speaking with energetic decision, though there was tremor discernible in his voice too
he said, fingering the sovereigns on the table
said Mrs. Tulliver, drawing out her much-reduced bunch of keys
he said, in a stronger voice, when he had taken some brandy-and-water
said Wakem, abruptly, in a haughtier tone than usual
said Tulliver, suddenly boiling up
said Mr. Tulliver, in a thick, fierce voice
he looked up at her with full comprehension, and said
said Maggie, an unspeakable anxiety predominating over her grief
said Lucy, sticking them in her band
said Lucy, pausing in her work
said Stephen, looking at her with an admiring smile
exclaimed Lucy, laughing wickedly, and clapping her hands
said the cunning Lucy, moving to reach her desk
as he turned over the volume of
said Lucy, too thoroughly preoccupied to notice Maggie's joke
said Maggie, in one of her bursts of loving admiration
said Maggie, shaking her head slowly
said Lucy, in a tone of remonstrance
said Lucy, taking up her embroidery
said Maggie, looking at him with her direct glance
said Stephen, really not quite knowing what he said while Maggie looked at him
continued Lucy, turning to Stephen
here Stephen drew himself up, and rubbed his large white hands over his hair with playful self-admiration
said Maggie, smiling, but not looking up
said Stephen, smiling down upon her
added Mrs. Pullet, sorrowfully, as she lifted Maggie's large round arm
said Lucy, patting her aunt Tulliver's shoulder
said Maggie, laughing, but impatient
said Lucy, looking happy already
said Maggie, coming forward and putting out her hand to him
here Bob turned to his wife
said Bob, speaking lower and looking serious
said Tom, softening under this appeal
said Mr. Deane, that same afternoon, as they were seated in the private room at the Bank together
said Mr. Deane at last, throwing himself backward
Mr. Deane went on, when he had finished his new pinch
he said, after a while
says Novalis, in one of his questionable aphorisms
Stephen burst forth, as soon as Miss Torry had left the room
said Stephen, smiling at her affectionately
said Stephen, in a still gentler tone; but the next moment he was vexed that she did not say
she said, in her pretty treble, like the low conversational notes of little birds
she went on, placing the chair that would suit him best
said Philip, as he seated himself
she said, with her childish contrition when he used to chide her
he said, going straight up to Philip and shaking him heartily by the hand, bowing to Maggie in passing
said Stephen, going toward the piano, and giving a foretaste of the tune in his deep
he said, seating himself at the piano
said Mr. Deane, when they entered the dining-room
continued Mr. Deane, as he dispensed the pigeonpie
he added, pinching the dimpled chin fondly
said Lucy, with a little air of solemnity
then, with a sudden penetrating look at his daughter
he said, putting his double eye-glass over his nose, and seating himself to take a general view while he rested
said Philip, with calm promptness
said Philip, looking up at him for the first time
said Philip, who had his reasons for some sympathy with this view of Tom
he said, with bitter incisiveness
said Wakem, rather brutally, trying to recover his previous position
said Stephen, in an undertone to Lucy
said Maggie, making a great effort to command herself
she said, with impetuous haughtiness
she said, with grave sadness
Maggie went on, at last, with a desperate effort
said Stephen, gently, taking her hand again and laying it within his arm
he went on, in an impatient tone, trying to defeat his own scruples as well as hers
he said, in scarcely more than a whisper, while his arm stole round her
she said, seating herself on the sofa, and caressingly adjusting that lady's floating cap-string
said Mrs. Pullet, with unusual vigor
Mrs. Pullet continued, shaking her head and looking at her sister Tulliver
said Mr. Glegg, good-naturedly patting Maggie on the back
said his wife, with that shade of increased politeness in her severity which she always put on with her crisper fronts
Mrs. Tulliver broke in anxiously
said that contriving young lady
said Philip, smiling at Maggie, who was lolling backward in a low garden-chair
she said to Maggie when they went out of the breakfast-room and upstairs together
he said, in a deep tone of slow decision
he added, turning toward her with a look that was half beseeching
he said, turning round toward her, and speaking in the tones of a man who feels a process of torture beginning
he said at last, pausing before her, and speaking in a tone of imploring wretchedness
she said, in a low but distinct voice
Stephen burst out, instinctively placing his back against the door, forgetting everything he had said a few moments before
she began, with beseeching earnestness
he burst out at last
she said, as soon as she could speak again
said Stephen, seating himself by her again
she said, in a voice almost of agony
said Stephen, rising too and grasping her arm
said Maggie, with more courage
she said, crushing her hands together under her cloak, in the effort to speak again
she said, after a few moments, looking down at the baby, and holding it anxiously, as if she feared it might slip from her mind and her fingers
said Bob, grasping the skin of Mumps's neck
said Bob, pointing to a place in front of Maggie
said Dr. Kenn, with a touch of more personal pity
she added, with some of the old proud fire flashing out
said Dr. Kenn, after some consideration
said poor Mrs. Tulliver, when she came back to Maggie
said poor Maggie, shrinking from the thought of all the contact her bruised mind would have to bear
said Mrs. Tulliver, leaning toward the warm young cheek
said Lucy, almost in a whisper, while she sat down close to Maggie and held her hand
said Maggie, with another great effort
she said, in a low voice, that had the solemnity of confession in it
said Tom, stepping into the boat
</text>
