<text>
said he, taking her by surprise, and getting sudden possession of her hand, so that she was forced to stand still and listen, despising herself for the fluttering at her heart all the time
he was going to say
she was going to say, but stopped short
continued Mr. Hale, smiling faintly
said he, drawing her closer
said she, suddenly lifting up her flushed, tear-wet face
said he, with a dignity that was only tremulous from the acute sensitiveness of his character
said Mr. Hale, collapsing into his depressed manner as soon as he came to talk of hard matter-of-fact details
cried she, with sudden passionate entreaty
said Margaret eagerly, not seeing the prudential side of the question, only grasping at the idea that they were rendering such help for the last time
said Margaret, faintly smiling as she kissed her mother
said Mrs. Hale, almost indignantly
Oh, mamma!' said Margaret, lifting herself up
said Mr. Hale, as he returned from showing his guest downstairs
said she, falling back in despair
as she afterwards observed to Dixon
said Fanny, lowering her voice
said her mother, as they drove away
said Margaret, laying her hand on the girl's
opening her eyes, and looking earnestly at Margaret
Margaret glanced unconsciously at the uncleaned corners of the room
she continued, after a pause, in a weak, trembling, exhausted voice
said her father, the next day
said Margaret in a low voice
said Margaret, determined just to say this one thing
said he, half-smiling, though sadly enough
replied he, dashing the ashes out of his pipe with so much vehemence that it broke
said Margaret, her cheek flushing, and her eye lightening
asked Mr. Thornton that night
said he, stopping, and bravely speaking out the truth
One of Mrs. Thornton's expressive snorts
said he, his eye catching on Margaret's face, blanched with watching in a sick room
said Margaret, shaking all over with her passion
said she, creeping into the dining-room
continued he, stopping short in his walk right in front of her
said Mrs. Thornton, smiling slowly, while the tears stood in her eyes
said she, clenching her hands together
said he, stepping forwards with stern determination
again the deep carnation blush, but this time with eyes kindling with indignation rather than shame
she repeated, in allusion to their former conversation about that word
and here the passionate tears (kept down for long -- struggled with vehemently) came up into her eyes, and choked her voice
said her mother at last
said Mrs. Hale, rather querulously
said Dixon, in a low voice
said she, turning sharply round
said Dixon, with a kind of cheerful authority
instead of the curt 'Nicholas' or
said Higgins, with a curious wink of his eye
said she in a very low voice
said Mr. Hale, smiling at Margaret; while she, as red as any carnation, began to work with double diligence
Here the letter became more constrained, and better written; Mr. Hale was in the corner, like a naughty child, for having given up his living
said Mrs. Hale, after a pause
she was on the point of adding, but she relented at the sight of that poor, anxious face
said she, reddening and looking straight at him
said Dixon testily; but in a moment afterwards, she added
said Mr. Hale, starting up; then, calming down, he said breathlessly
for Margaret had re-entered the room, and stood silent, listening
said his mother, now really shocked
said Margaret, in a tearful voice
said she, breaking down, and covering her face with her hands
she had hard work to keep herself from choking with her tears
said Mrs. Thornton, drawing herself up
thought Mrs. Thornton to herself
replied Higgins, turning round, with ill-smothered fierceness
she went on a little more eagerly
said her father, anxious to indulge her in this fresh subject of interest
she said to her maid
said Mr. Bell, wheeling round, and shutting one eye, the better to bring the forces of the other to bear with keen scrutiny on Mr. Thornton's face
said Margaret, blushing excessively as she spoke
said Mrs. Thornton, with a sort of grim smile
said Mrs. Shaw, looking fondly at Margaret
and even this giving him the title of the service from which he had so harshly been expelled, was soothing to Margaret
said the Vicar's wife, all eyes and ears
said Edith, one day, archly
said Edith, a little maliciously
said she, with gloomy defiance in her tone
said he, holding her gently in his arms
he went on, seeing that she would not speak
he turned away, and never spoke to her again until he bid her a formal
</text>
