<text>
said his lady to him one day
said Mrs. Bennet to her husband
as she entered the room
observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections
cried a young Lucas, who came with his sisters
he continued after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group
said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the note aloud
said Lydia, as they walked along
observed Miss Bingley in a half whisper
said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her
replied Darcy, to whom this remark was chiefly addressed
said Miss Bingley, with cold civility
said she, as they were walking together in the shrubbery the next day
he replied with a smile
said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at breakfast the next morning
said Mrs. Bennet, shaking her head
said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject drop, added
said Wickham, after a short interruption
said he, at the next opportunity of speaking
said she, after a pause
but she contented herself with
she replied, without knowing what she said, for her thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared by her suddenly exclaiming
said she, with a countenance no less smiling than her sister's
replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the hand
said Mr. Collins very gravely
cried Elizabeth with some warmth
cried he, with an air of awkward gallantry
she added in a melancholy tone
he presently continued, in a voice that marked his displeasure
said she, after a short pause
said Maria, quite shocked at the mistake
and she coloured at the idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone
cried Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the room
added he, stopping in his walk, and turning towards her
cried Maria, after a few minutes' silence
said Mrs. Bennet one day
continued her mother, soon afterwards
But checking himself, he added, in a gayer tone
he continued in a lower and more serious tone
said Mrs. Reynolds, pointing to another of the miniatures
said Mrs. Gardiner, looking at the picture
whispered her aunt as they walked
he continued after a pause
and, before she could reply, he added
replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer
cried he, with more feeling than politeness; then recollecting himself
she added in a yet more agitated voice
said her uncle, as they drove from the town
replied Elizabeth, with tears in her eyes
cried Mrs. Hill, in great astonishment
said she, when they were all returned to the breakfast room
said Elizabeth, though burning with curiosity
she added to herself, as she finished the letter
she replied with a smile
said Mr. Bennet, as soon as they were out of the house
said she, as soon as they were left to themselves
replied her ladyship, in an angry tone
said Elizabeth, colouring with astonishment and disdain
replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion
cried Mrs. Bennet, as she stood at a window the next morning
she replied, with tears in her eyes
said he, when she ceased speaking
</text>
