<text>
God grant he be not disappointed! I know not how he would bear it
No, love, you cannot indeed -- there's nothing here you can do. Go and help your sister, or get her to take a walk with you -- tell her she must not sit so much, and stay so constantly in the house as she does -- she may well look thin and dejected
Mary, mamma says I'm to help you; or get you to take a walk with me; she says you may well look thin and dejected, if you sit so constantly in the house
Help me you cannot, Agnes; and I cannot go out with YOU -- I have far too much to do
Then let me help you
You cannot, indeed, dear child. Go and practise your music, or play with the kitten
What a desirable thing it would be for your papa to spend a few weeks at a watering-place. I am convinced the sea-air and the change of scene would be of incalculable service to him. But then, you see, there's no money
Well, well
it's no use complaining. Possibly something might be done to further the project after all. Mary, you are a beautiful drawer. What do you say to doing a few more pictures in your best style, and getting them framed, with the water-coloured drawings you have already done, and trying to dispose of them to some liberal picture-dealer, who has the sense to discern their merits
Mamma, I should be delighted if you think they COULD be sold; and for anything worth while
It's worth while trying, however, my dear: do you procure the drawings, and I'll endeavour to find a purchaser
I wish _I_ could do something
You, Agnes! well, who knows? You draw pretty well, too: if you choose some simple piece for your subject, I daresay you will be able to produce something we shall all be proud to exhibit
But I have another scheme in my head, mamma, and have had long, only I did not like to mention it
Indeed! pray tell us what it is
I should like to be a governess
YOU a governess, Agnes! What can you be dreaming of
Well! I don't see anything so VERY extraordinary in it. I do not pretend to be able to instruct great girls; but surely I could teach little ones: and I should like it so much: I am so fond of children. Do let me, mamma
But, my love, you have not learned to take care of YOURSELF yet: and young children require more judgment and experience to manage than elder ones
But, mamma, I am above eighteen, and quite able to take care of myself, and others too. You do not know half the wisdom and prudence I possess, because I have never been tried
Only think
what would you do in a house full of strangers, without me or mamma to speak and act for you -- with a parcel of children, besides yourself, to attend to; and no one to look to for advice? You would not even know what clothes to put on
You think, because I always do as you bid me, I have no judgment of my own: but only try me -- that is all I ask -- and you shall see what I can do
What, my little Agnes a governess
Yes, papa, don't YOU say anything against it: I should like it so much; and I am sure I could manage delightfully
But, my darling, we could not spare you
No, no! afflicted as we are, surely we are not brought to that pass yet
Oh, no
There is no necessity whatever for such a step; it is merely a whim of her own. So you must hold your tongue, you naughty girl; for, though you are so ready to leave us, you know very well we cannot part with YOU
It's a coldish mornin' for you, Miss Agnes
un too; but we's happen get to yon spot afore there come much rain to signify
Yes, I hope so
It's comed a good sup last night too
Yes
But this cold wind will happen keep it off
Perhaps it will
Be calm, be calm, whatever happens
My hands are so benumbed with the cold that I can scarcely handle my knife and fork
I daresay you would find it cold
You will find them not very far advanced in their attainments
His sister Mary Ann will require watching
but she is a very good girl upon the whole; though I wish her to be kept out of the nursery as much as possible, as she is now almost six years old, and might acquire bad habits from the nurses. I have ordered her crib to be placed in your room, and if you will be so kind as to overlook her washing and dressing, and take charge of her clothes, she need have nothing further to do with the nursery maid
Oh, Tom, what a darling you are
Come and kiss dear mamma; and then won't you show Miss Grey your schoolroom, and your nice new books
I won't kiss YOU, mamma; but I WILL show Miss Grey my schoolroom, and my new books
And MY schoolroom, and MY new books, Tom
They're mine too
They're MINE
Come along, Miss Grey -- I'll escort you
Oh, yes, I will
I'll cut into him like smoke! Eeh! my word! but he shall sweat for it
Now you must put on your bonnet and shawl
and I'll show you my garden
And MINE
Surely, Tom, you would not strike your sister! I hope I shall NEVER see you do that
You will sometimes: I'm obliged to do it now and then to keep her in order
But it is not your business to keep her in order, you know -- that is for
Well, now go and put on your bonnet
I don't know -- it is so very cloudy and cold, it seems likely to rain;-- and you know I have had a long drive
No matter -- you MUST come; I shall allow of no excuses
Oh, never mind that
That's only Mary Ann's garden; look, THIS is mine
Traps for birds
Why do you catch them
Papa says they do harm
And what do you do with them when you catch them
Different things. Sometimes I give them to the cat; sometimes I cut them in pieces with my penknife; but the next, I mean to roast alive
And why do you mean to do such a horrible thing
For two reasons: first, to see how long it will live -- and then, to see what it will taste like
But don't you know it is extremely wicked to do such things? Remember, the birds can feel as well as you; and think, how would you like it yourself
Oh, that's nothing! I'm not a bird, and I can't feel what I do to them
But you will have to feel it some time, Tom: you have heard where wicked people go to when they die; and if you don't leave off torturing innocent birds, remember, you will have to go there, and suffer just what you have made them suffer
Oh, pooh! I shan't. Papa knows how I treat them, and he never blames me for it: he says it is just what HE used to do when HE was a boy. Last summer, he gave me a nest full of young sparrows, and he saw me pulling off their legs and wings, and heads, and never said anything; except that they were nasty things, and I must not let them soil my trousers: end Uncle Robson was there too, and he laughed, and said I was a fine boy
But what would your mamma say
Oh, she doesn't care! she says it's a pity to kill the pretty singing birds, but the naughty sparrows, and mice, and rats, I may do what I like with. So now, Miss Grey, you see it is NOT wicked
I still think it is, Tom; and perhaps your papa and mamma would think so too, if they thought much about it. However
they may say what they please, but I am determined you shall do nothing of the kind, as long as I have power to prevent it
keep out of that water
Miss Grey
I suppose it IS Miss Grey), I am surprised that you should allow them to dirty their clothes in that manner! Don't you see how Miss Bloomfield has soiled her frock? and that Master Bloomfield's socks are quite wet? and both of them without gloves? Dear, dear! Let me REQUEST that in future you will keep them DECENT at least
What is the matter with the mutton, my dear
It is quite overdone. Don't you taste, Mrs. Bloomfield, that all the goodness is roasted out of it? And can't you see that all that nice, red gravy is completely dried away
Well, I think the BEEF will suit you
What is the matter with the BEEF, Mr. Bloomfield? I'm sure I thought it was very nice
And so it WAS very nice. A nicer joint could not be; but it is QUITE spoiled
How so
How so! Why, don't you see how it is cut? Dear -- dear! it is quite shocking
They must have cut it wrong in the kitchen, then, for I'm sure I carved it quite properly here, yesterday
No DOUBT they cut it wrong in the kitchen -- the savages! Dear -- dear! Did ever any one see such a fine piece of beef so completely ruined? But remember that, in future, when a decent dish leaves this table, they shall not TOUCH it in the kitchen. Remember THAT, Mrs. Bloomfield
Turkey and grouse
And what besides
Fish
What kind of fish
I don't know
YOU DON'T KNOW
No. I told the cook to get some fish -- I did not particularize what
Well, that beats everything! A lady professes to keep house, and doesn't even know what fish is for dinner! professes to order fish, and doesn't specify what
Perhaps, Mr. Bloomfield, you will order dinner yourself in future
Yes, I will, Mary Ann, if you will only say that word. Come! you'd better say it at once, and have no more trouble about it
No
Then, of course, I can do nothing for you
NOW, then! THAT'S for you
Mary Ann is a naughty girl, ma'am
But what are these shocking screams
She is screaming in a passion
I never heard such a dreadful noise! You might be killing her. Why is she not out with her brother
I cannot get her to finish her lessons
But Mary Ann must be a GOOD girl, and finish her lessons
And I hope I shall NEVER hear such terrible cries again
Ah! I'm too sharp for you; you shan't trick it out of me, either
Now, Mary Ann, just tell me that word before I kiss you good-night. You are a good girl now, and, of course, you will say it
No, I won't
Then I can't kiss you
Well, I don't care
didn't care
mamma
papa
was never fit to be seen
What a naughty girl Fanny is getting
Don't you observe, my dear, how she is altered since she entered the schoolroom? She will soon be as bad as the other two; and, I am sorry to say, they have quite deteriorated of late
You may say that
I've been thinking that same myself. I thought when we got them a governess they'd improve; but, instead of that, they get worse and worse: I don't know how it is with their learning, but their habits, I know, make no sort of improvement; they get rougher, and dirtier, and more unseemly every day
For
I thought, as you had seen your friends so lately, you would not care for a longer stay
be naughty, and to tease Miss Grey, and put her in a passion
If they could see me now
to be naughty
Burn it, Fanny
Mary Ann, throw her desk out of the window
Miss Grey! Is it possible? What, in the devil's name, can you be thinking about
I can't get them in, sir
But I INSIST upon their being got in
Then, sir, you must call them yourself, if you please, for they won't listen to me
Come in with you, you filthy brats; or I'll horsewhip you every one
There, you see!-- they come at the first word
Yes, when YOU speak
And it's very strange, that when you've the care of 'em you've no better control over 'em than that!-- Now, there they are -- gone upstairs with their nasty snowy feet! Do go after 'em and see them made decent, for heaven's sake
Gracious heavens!-- never in all my life --!-- get their death as sure as --! Do you think, my dear, she's a PROPER PERSON? Take my word for it
the darling boy and girls
But there's one remedy for all, my dear, and that's resignation' (a toss of the head), 'resignation to the will of heaven
but I'm one of the pious ones, Miss Grey
And, thank heaven, I always was' (another nod), 'and I glory in it
All very quiet here! What are you doing
No harm TO- DAY, at least
What in the world are you about
We're grinding egg-shells, papa
How DARE you make such a mess, you little devils? Don't you see what confounded work you're making of the carpet
Miss Grey, did you know what they were doing
Yes, sir
You knew it
Yes
You knew it! and you actually sat there and permitted them to go on without a word of reproof
I didn't think they were doing any harm
It puts me quite past my patience too
clean after them
What is the matter with my boy
There now
There now, Miss Grey! you see I've got my supper in spite of you: and I haven't picked up a single thing
Oh, Miss Grey
you have some trouble with them childer
I have, indeed, Betty; and I daresay you know what it is
uns -- I gives 'em a good whipping now and then: there's nothing else will do for 'em, as what they say. Howsoever, I've lost my place for it
Have you, Betty? I heard you were going to leave
'em again; but I couldn't hold my hand off 'em at nothing. I know not how YOU do, for Miss Mary Ann's worse by the half nor her sisters
Uncle Robson
No, not one
They're all mine; uncle Robson gave them to me -- one, two, three, four, five -- you shan't touch one of them! no, not one, for your lives
But you shall see me fettle 'em off. My word, but I WILL wallop 'em? See if I don't now. By gum! but there's rare sport for me in that nest
But, Tom
I shall not allow you to torture those birds. They must either be killed at once or carried back to the place you took them from, that the old birds may continue to feed them
But you don't know where that is, Madam: it's only me and uncle Robson that knows that
But if you don't tell me, I shall kill them myself -- much as I hate it
You daren't. You daren't touch them for your life! because you know papa and mamma, and uncle Robson, would be angry. Ha, ha! I've caught you there, Miss
I shall do what I think right in a case of this sort without consulting any one. If your papa and mamma don't happen to approve of it, I shall be sorry to offend them; but your uncle Robson's opinions, of course, are nothing to me
un
Damme, but the lad has some spunk in him, too. Curse me, if ever I saw a nobler little scoundrel than that. He's beyond petticoat government already: by God! he defies mother, granny, governess, and all! Ha, ha, ha! Never mind, Tom, I'll get you another brood to-morrow
If you do, Mr. Robson, I shall kill them too
Humph
I am sorry, Miss Grey, you should think it necessary to interfere with Master Bloomfield's amusements; he was very much distressed about your destroying the birds
When Master Bloomfield's amusements consist in injuring sentient creatures
I think it my duty to interfere
You seemed to have forgotten
that the creatures were all created for our convenience
If they were, we have no right to torment them for our amusement
I think
a child's amusement is scarcely to be weighed against the welfare of a soulless brute
But, for the child's own sake, it ought not to be encouraged to have such amusements
Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy
Oh! of course; but that refers to our conduct towards each other
The merciful man shows mercy to his beast
I think YOU have not shown much mercy
killing the poor birds by wholesale in that shocking manner, and putting the dear boy to such misery for a mere whim
very nice woman
Oh, Richard
if you would but dismiss such gloomy subjects from your mind, you would live as long as any of us; at least you would live to see the girls married, and yourself a happy grandfather, with a canty old dame for your companion
THEY married -- poor penniless things
who will take them I wonder
Why, nobody shall that isn't thankful for them. Wasn't I penniless when you took me? and you PRETENDED, at least, to be vastly pleased with your acquisition. But it's no matter whether they get married or not: we can devise a thousand honest ways of making a livelihood. And I wonder, Richard, you can think of bothering your head about our POVERTY in case of your death; as if THAT would be anything compared with the calamity of losing you -- an affliction that you well know would swallow up all others, and which you ought to do your utmost to preserve us from: and there is nothing like a cheerful mind for keeping the body in health
I know, Alice, it is wrong to keep repining as I do, but I cannot help it: you must bear with me
I WON'T bear with you, if I can alter you
Mamma
my money is but little, and cannot last long; if I could increase it, it would lessen papa's anxiety, on one subject at least. I cannot draw like Mary, and so the best thing I could do would be to look out for another situation
And so you would actually try again, Agnes
Decidedly, I would
Why, my dear, I should have thought you had had enough of it
I know
everybody is not like Mr. and Mrs. Bloomfield
Some are worse
But not many, I think
and I'm sure all children are not like theirs; for I and Mary were not: we always did as you bid us, didn't we
Generally: but then, I did not spoil you; and you were not perfect angels after all: Mary had a fund of quiet obstinacy, and you were somewhat faulty in regard to temper; but you were very good children on the whole
I know I was sulky sometimes, and I should have been glad to see these children sulky sometimes too; for then I could have understood them: but they never were, for they COULD not be offended, nor hurt, nor ashamed: they could not be unhappy in any way, except when they were in a passion
Well, if they COULD not, it was not their fault: you cannot expect stone to be as pliable as clay
No, but still it is very unpleasant to live with such unimpressible, incomprehensible creatures. You cannot love them; and if you could, your love would be utterly thrown away: they could neither return it, nor value, nor understand it. But, however, even if I should stumble on such a family again, which is quite unlikely, I have all this experience to begin with, and I should manage better another time; and the end and aim of this preamble is, let me try again
Well, my girl, you are not easily discouraged, I see: I am glad of that. But, let me tell you, you are a good deal paler and thinner than when you first left home; and we cannot have you undermining your health to hoard up money either for yourself or others
Mary tells me I am changed too; and I don't much wonder at it, for I was in a constant state of agitation and anxiety all day long: but next time I am determined to take things coolly
Your talents are not such as every poor clergyman's daughter possesses, Agnes
and you must not throw them away. Remember, you promised to be patient: there is no need of hurry: you have plenty of time before you, and may have many chances yet
Music, singing, drawing, French, Latin, and German
are no mean assemblage: many will be glad to have so much in one instructor; and this time, you shall try your fortune in a somewhat higher family in that of some genuine, thoroughbred gentleman; for such are far more likely to treat you with proper respect and consideration than those purse-proud tradespeople and arrogant upstarts. I have known several among the higher ranks who treated their governesses quite as one of the family; though some, I allow, are as insolent and exacting as any one else can be: for there are bad and good in all classes
Matilda, take a candle, and show her her room
Brown
The young ladies and gentlemen breakfast at half-past eight, ma'am
they rise early; but, as they seldom do any lessons before breakfast, I should think it will do if you rise soon after seven
Morning, Miss Grey
little high- spirited
nervous and tedious
But at all events, Miss Grey
I hope YOU will keep your temper, and be mild and patient throughout; especially with the dear little Charles; he is so extremely nervous and susceptible, and so utterly unaccustomed to anything but the tenderest treatment. You will excuse my naming these things to you; for the fact is, I have hitherto found all the governesses, even the very best of them, faulty in this particular. They wanted that meek and quiet spirit, which St. Matthew, or some of them, says is better than the putting on of apparel -- you will know the passage to which I allude, for you are a clergyman's daughter. But I have no doubt you will give satisfaction in this respect as well as the rest. And remember, on all occasions, when any of the young people do anything improper, if persuasion and gentle remonstrance will not do, let one of the others come and tell me; for I can speak to them more plainly than it would be proper for you to do. And make them as happy as you can, Miss Grey, and I dare say you will do very well
unlady-like trick
how she had picked it up
But you can soon break her of it, Miss Grey
it is only a habit; and if you will just gently remind her every time she does so, I am sure she will soon lay it aside
gently reminded' her, I tried to impress upon her how wrong it was, and how distressing to the ears of decent people: but all in vain: I was only answered by a careless laugh, and, 'Oh, Miss Grey, how shocked you are! I'm so glad
Well! I can't help it; papa shouldn't have taught me: I learned it all from him; and maybe a bit from the coachman
no go; for him, it was plain; his mother spoiled him outrageously, and his governess could make no hand of him at all
It's very odd, Miss Grey, that the carriage should always make you sick: it never makes ME
Nor me either
but I dare say it would, if I sat where she does -- such a nasty, horrid place, Miss Grey; I wonder how you can bear it
I am obliged to bear it, since no choice is left me
Oh! it is but a short way, and if I am not sick in church, I don't mind it
to get all the plaguy business over before breakfast
mamma would not like me to be so careless
suffereth long and is kind, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, beareth all things, endureth all things
Miss Grey was a queer creature: she never flattered, and did not praise them half enough; but whenever she did speak favourably of them, or anything belonging to them, they could be quite sure her approbation was sincere. She was very obliging, quiet, and peaceable in the main, but there were some things that put her out of temper: they did not much care for that, to be sure, but still it was better to keep her in tune; as when she was in a good humour she would talk to them, and be very agreeable and amusing sometimes, in her way; which was quite different to mamma's, but still very well for a change. She had her own opinions on every subject, and kept steadily to them -- very tiresome opinions they often were; as she was always thinking of what was right and what was wrong, and had a strange reverence for matters connected with religion, and an unaccountable liking to good people
Miss Grey
Miss Grey, do put away that dull, stupid letter, and listen to me! I'm sure my talk must be far more amusing than that
You should tell the good people at home not to bore you with such long letters
and, above all, do bid them write on proper note-paper, and not on those great vulgar sheets. You should see the charming little lady-like notes mamma writes to her friends
The good people at home
know very well that the longer their letters are, the better I like them. I should be very sorry to receive a charming little lady-like note from any of them; and I thought you were too much of a lady yourself, Miss Murray, to talk about the "vulgarity" of writing on a large sheet of paper
Well, I only said it to tease you. But now I want to talk about the ball; and to tell you that you positively must put off your holidays till it is over
Why so?-- I shall not be present at the ball
No, but you will see the rooms decked out before it begins, and hear the music, and, above all, see me in my splendid new dress. I shall be so charming, you'll be ready to worship me -- you really must stay
I should like to see you very much; but I shall have many opportunities of seeing you equally charming, on the occasion of some of the numberless balls and parties that are to be, and I cannot disappoint my friends by postponing my return so long
Oh, never mind your friends! Tell them we won't let you go
But, to say the truth, it would be a disappointment to myself: I long to see them as much as they to see me -- perhaps more
Well, but it is such a short time
Nearly a fortnight by my computation; and, besides, I cannot bear the thoughts of a Christmas spent from home: and, moreover, my sister is going to be married
Is she -- when
Not till next month; but I want to be there to assist her in making preparations, and to make the best of her company while we have her
Why didn't you tell me before
I've only got the news in this letter, which you stigmatize as dull and stupid, and won't let me read
To whom is she to be married
To Mr. Richardson, the vicar of a neighbouring parish
Is he rich
No; only comfortable
Is he handsome
No; only decent
Young
No; only middling
Oh, mercy! what a wretch! What sort of a house is it
A quiet little vicarage, with an ivy-clad porch, an old-fashioned garden, and
Oh, stop!-- you'll make me sick. How CAN she bear it
I expect she'll not only be able to bear it, but to be very happy. You did not ask me if Mr. Richardson were a good, wise, or amiable man; I could have answered Yes, to all these questions -- at least so Mary thinks, and I hope she will not find herself mistaken
But -- miserable creature! how can she think of spending her life there, cooped up with that nasty old man; and no hope of change
He is not old: he's only six or seven and thirty; and she herself is twenty-eight, and as sober as if she were fifty
Oh! that's better then -- they're well matched; but do they call him the "worthy vicar
I don't know; but if they do, I believe he merits the epithet
Mercy, how shocking! and will she wear a white apron and make pies and puddings
I don't know about the white apron, but I dare say she will make pies and puddings now and then; but that will be no great hardship, as she has done it before
And will she go about in a plain shawl, and a large straw bonnet, carrying tracts and bone soup to her husband's poor parishioners
I'm not clear about that; but I dare say she will do her best to make them comfortable in body and mind, in accordance with our mother's example
Now, Miss Grey
Now -- shut the door, and sit down, and I'll tell you all about the ball
No -- damn it, no
Hold your tongue, can't ye? and let me tell her about my new mare -- SUCH a splendour, Miss Grey! a fine blood mare
Do be quiet, Matilda; and let me tell my news first
No, no, Rosalie; you'll be such a damned long time over it -- she shall hear me first -- I'll be hanged if she doesn't
I'm sorry to hear, Miss Matilda, that you've not got rid of that shocking habit yet
Well, I can't help it: but I'll never say a wicked word again, if you'll only listen to me, and tell Rosalie to hold her confounded tongue
like winking
Oh, Matilda! what stories you are telling
Well
I know I COULD clear a five-barred gate, if I tried, and papa WILL say I may hunt, and mamma WILL order the habit when I ask it
Well, now get along
and do, dear Matilda, try to be a little more lady-like. Miss Grey, I wish you would tell her not to use such shocking words; she will call her horse a mare: it is so inconceivably shocking! and then she uses such dreadful expressions in describing it: she must have learned it from the grooms. It nearly puts me into fits when she begins
I learned it from papa, you ass! and his jolly friends
I'm as good judge of horseflesh as the best of 'm
Well, now get along, you shocking girl! I really shall take a fit if you go on in such a way. And now, Miss Grey, attend to me; I'm going to tell you about the ball. You must be dying to hear about it, I know. Oh, SUCH a ball! You never saw or heard, or read, or dreamt of anything like it in all your life. The decorations, the entertainment, the supper, the music were indescribable! and then the guests! There were two noblemen, three baronets, and five titled ladies, and other ladies and gentlemen innumerable. The ladies, of course, were of no consequence to me, except to put me in a good humour with myself, by showing how ugly and awkward most of them were; and the best, mamma told me,-- the most transcendent beauties among them, were nothing to me. As for me, Miss Grey -- I'm so SORRY you didn't see me! I was CHARMING -- wasn't I, Matilda
Middling
No, but I really was -- at least so mamma said -- and Brown and Williamson. Brown said she was sure no gentleman could set eyes on me without falling in love that minute; and so I may be allowed to be a little vain. I know you think me a shocking, conceited, frivolous girl; but then, you know, I don't attribute it ALL to my personal attractions: I give some praise to the hairdresser, and some to my exquisitely lovely dress -- you must see it to-morrow -- white gauze over pink satin -- and so SWEETLY made! and a necklace and bracelet of beautiful, large pearls
I have no doubt you looked very charming: but should that delight you so very much
Oh, no!-- not that alone: but, then, I was so much admired; and I made so MANY conquests in that one night -- you'd be astonished to hear
But what good will they do you
What good! Think of any woman asking that
Well, I should think one conquest would be enough; and too much, unless the subjugation were mutual
Oh, but you know I never agree with you on those points. Now, wait a bit, and I'll tell you my principal admirers -- those who made themselves very conspicuous that night and after: for I've been to two parties since. Unfortunately the two noblemen, Lord G --- and Lord F ---, were married, or I might have condescended to be particularly gracious to THEM; as it was, I did not: though Lord F ---, who hates his wife, was evidently much struck with me. He asked me to dance with him twice -- he is a charming dancer, by-the- by, and so am I: you can't think how well I did -- I was astonished at myself. My lord was very complimentary too -- rather too much so in fact -- and I thought proper to be a little haughty and repellent; but I had the pleasure of seeing his nasty, cross wife ready to perish with spite and vexation
Oh, Miss Murray! you don't mean to say that such a thing could really give you pleasure? However cross or
Well, I know it's very wrong;-- but never mind! I mean to be good some time -- only don't preach now, there's a good creature. I haven't told you half yet. Let me see. Oh! I was going to tell you how many unmistakeable admirers I had:- Sir Thomas Ashby was one,-- Sir Hugh Meltham and Sir Broadley Wilson are old codgers, only fit companions for papa and mamma. Sir Thomas is young, rich, and gay; but an ugly beast, nevertheless: however, mamma says I should not mind that after a few months' acquaintance. Then, there was Henry Meltham, Sir Hugh's younger son; rather good-looking, and a pleasant fellow to flirt with: but BEING a younger son, that is all he is good for; then there was young Mr. Green, rich enough, but of no family, and a great stupid fellow, a mere country booby! and then, our good rector, Mr. Hatfield: an HUMBLE admirer he ought to consider himself; but I fear he has forgotten to number humility among his stock of Christian virtues
Was Mr. Hatfield at the ball
Yes, to be sure. Did you think he was too good to go
I thought be might consider it unclerical
By no means. He did not profane his cloth by dancing; but it was with difficulty he could refrain, poor man: he looked as if he were dying to ask my hand just for ONE set; and -- oh! by-the-by -- he's got a new curate: that seedy old fellow Mr. Bligh has got his long-wished-for living at last, and is gone
And what is the new one like
Oh, SUCH a beast! Weston his name is. I can give you his description in three words -- an insensate, ugly, stupid blockhead. That's four, but no matter -- enough of HIM now
Well, which of the four do you like best
I detest them all
That means, I suppose, "I like them all"-- but which most
No, I really detest them all; but Harry Meltham is the handsomest and most amusing, and Mr. Hatfield the cleverest, Sir Thomas the wickedest, and Mr. Green the most stupid. But the one I'm to have, I suppose, if I'm doomed to have any of them, is Sir Thomas Ashby
Surely not, if he's so wicked, and if you dislike him
Oh, I don't mind his being wicked: he's all the better for that; and as for disliking him -- I shouldn't greatly object to being Lady Ashby of Ashby Park, if I must marry. But if I could be always young, I would be always single. I should like to enjoy myself thoroughly, and coquet with all the world, till I am on the verge of being called an old maid; and then, to escape the infamy of that, after having made ten thousand conquests, to break all their hearts save one, by marrying some high-born, rich, indulgent husband, whom, on the other hand, fifty ladies were dying to have
Well, as long as you entertain these views, keep single by all means, and never marry at all: not even to escape the infamy of old-maidenhood
Well, Miss Grey, what do you think of the new curate
I can scarcely tell
I have not even heard him preach
Well, but you saw him, didn't you
Yes, but I cannot pretend to judge of a man's character by a single cursory glance at his face
But isn't he ugly
He did not strike me as being particularly so; I don't dislike that cast of countenance: but the only thing I particularly noticed about him was his style of reading; which appeared to me good -- infinitely better, at least, than Mr. Hatfield's. He read the Lessons as if he were bent on giving full effect to every passage; it seemed as if the most careless person could not have helped attending, nor the most ignorant have failed to understand; and the prayers he read as if he were not reading at all, but praying earnestly and sincerely from his own heart
Oh, yes, that's all he is good for: he can plod through the service well enough; but he has not a single idea beyond it
How do you know
Oh! I know perfectly well; I am an excellent judge in such matters. Did you see how he went out of church? stumping along -- as if there were nobody there but himself -- never looking to the right hand or the left, and evidently thinking of nothing but just getting out of the church, and, perhaps, home to his dinner: his great stupid head could contain no other idea
I suppose you would have had him cast a glance into the squire's pew
Indeed! I should have been highly indignant if he had dared to do such a thing
Well, well! I suppose he's good enough for his place: but I'm glad I'm not dependent on HIM for amusement -- that's all. Did you see how Mr. Hatfield hurried out to get a bow from me, and be in time to put us into the carriage
Yes
For
he has been a most exemplary attendant at church these last few Sundays: you would think he was quite a good Christian. And you may go with us, Miss Grey: I want you to see him; he is so greatly improved since he returned from abroad -- you can't think! And besides, then you will have an opportunity of seeing the beautiful Mr. Weston again, and of hearing him preach
make the word of God of none effect by their traditions, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men
Well, Miss Grey, what do you think of him now
No harm still
No harm
What do you mean
I mean, I think no worse of him than I did before
No worse! I should think not indeed -- quite the contrary! Is he not greatly improved
Oh, yes; very much indeed
You shan't have him all to yourself, Rosalie
I like him: I know he'd make a nice, jolly companion for me
Well, you're quite welcome to him, Matilda
And I'm sure
he admires me quite as much as he does you; doesn't he, Miss Grey
I don't know; I'm not acquainted with his sentiments
Well, but he DOES though
My DEAR Matilda! nobody will ever admire you till you get rid of your rough, awkward manners
Oh, stuff! Harry Meltham likes such manners; and so do papa's friends
Well, you MAY captivate old men, and younger sons; but nobody else, I am sure, will ever take a fancy to you
I don't care: I'm not always grabbing after money, like you and mamma. If my husband is able to keep a few good horses and dogs, I shall be quite satisfied; and all the rest may go to the devil
Well, if you use such shocking expressions, I'm sure no real gentleman will ever venture to come near you. Really, Miss Grey, you should not let her do so
I can't possibly prevent it, Miss Murray
And you're quite mistaken, Matilda, in supposing that Harry Meltham admires you: I assure you he does nothing of the kind
Well, Nancy, how are you to-day
Why, middling, Miss, i' myseln -- my eyes is no better, but I'm a deal easier i' my mind nor I have been
If it please God to spare my sight, and make me so as I can read my Bible again, I think I shall be as happy as a queen
I hope He will, Nancy
and, meantime, I'll come and read to you now and then, when I have a little time to spare
Well, Miss Grey, if it's all the same to you, I should like to hear that chapter in the First Epistle of St. John, that says, "God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him
simple body
The wisest person
might think over each of these verses for an hour, and be all the better for it; and I would rather read them slowly than not
I don't know
I think he preaches very well
Ay, he does so; and talks well too
Does he
He does. Maybe, you haven't seen him -- not to talk to him much, yet
No, I never see any one to talk to -- except the young ladies of the Hall
Ah; they're nice, kind young ladies; but they can't talk as he does
Then he comes to see you, Nancy
He does, Miss; and I'se thankful for it. He comes to see all us poor bodies a deal ofter nor Maister Bligh, or th' Rector ever did; an' it's well he does, for he's always welcome: we can't say as much for th' Rector -- there is 'at says they're fair feared on him. When he comes into a house, they say he's sure to find summut wrong, and begin a-calling 'em as soon as he crosses th' doorstuns: but maybe he thinks it his duty like to tell 'em what's wrong. And very oft he comes o' purpose to reprove folk for not coming to church, or not kneeling an' standing when other folk does, or going to the Methody chapel, or summut o' that sort: but I can't say 'at he ever fund much fault wi' me. He came to see me once or twice, afore Maister Weston come, when I was so ill troubled in my mind; and as I had only very poor health besides, I made bold to send for him -- and he came right enough. I was sore distressed, Miss Grey -- thank God, it's owered now -- but when I took my Bible, I could get no comfort of it at all. That very chapter 'at you've just been reading troubled me as much as aught -- "He that loveth not, knoweth not God." It seemed fearsome to me; for I felt that I loved neither God nor man as I should do, and could not, if I tried ever so. And th' chapter afore, where it says,-- "He that is born of God cannot commit sin." And another place where it says,-- "Love is the fulfilling of the Law." And many, many others, Miss: I should fair weary you out, if I was to tell them all. But all seemed to condemn me, and to show me 'at I was not in the right way; and as I knew not how to get into it, I sent our Bill to beg Maister Hatfield to be as kind as look in on me some day and when he came, I telled him all my troubles
And what did he say, Nancy
Why, Miss, he seemed to scorn me. I might be mista'en -- but he like gave a sort of a whistle, and I saw a bit of a smile on his face; and he said, "Oh, it's all stuff! You've been among the Methodists, my good woman." But I telled him I'd never been near the Methodies. And then he said,-- "Well," says he, "you must come to church, where you'll hear the Scriptures properly explained, instead of sitting poring over your Bible at home." 'But I telled him I always used coming to church when I had my health; but this very cold winter weather I hardly durst venture so far -- and me so bad wi' th' rheumatic and all. 

'But he says, "It'll do your rheumatiz good to hobble to church: there's nothing like exercise for the rheumatiz. You can walk about the house well enough; why can't you walk to church? The fact is," says he, "you're getting too fond of your ease. It's always easy to find excuses for shirking one's duty." 

'But then, you know, Miss Grey, it wasn't so. However, I telled him I'd try. "But please, sir," says I, "if I do go to church, what the better shall I be? I want to have my sins blotted out, and to feel that they are remembered no more against me, and that the love of God is shed abroad in my heart; and if I can get no good by reading my Bible an' saying my prayers at home, what good shall I get by going to church
The church," says he, "is the place appointed by God for His worship. It's your duty to go there as often as you can. If you want comfort, you must seek it in the path of duty," -- an' a deal more he said, but I cannot remember all his fine words. However, it all came to this, that I was to come to church as oft as ever I could, and bring my prayer-book with me, an' read up all the sponsers after the clerk, an' stand, an' kneel, an' sit, an' do all as I should, and take the Lord's Supper at every opportunity, an' hearken his sermons, and Maister Bligh's, an' it 'ud be all right: if I went on doing my duty, I should get a blessing at last. ' "But if you get no comfort that way," says he, "it's all up." 

' "Then, sir," says I, "should you think I'm a reprobate?" 

' "Why," says he -- he says, "if you do your best to get to heaven and can't manage it, you must be one of those that seek to enter in at the strait gate and shall not be able." 

'An' then he asked me if I'd seen any of the ladies o' th' Hall about that mornin'; so I telled him where I had seen the young misses go on th' Moss Lane;-- an' he kicked my poor cat right across th' floor, an' went after 'em as gay as a lark: but I was very sad. That last word o' his fair sunk into my heart, an' lay there like a lump o' lead, till I was weary to bear it. 

'Howsever, I follered his advice: I thought he meant it all for th' best, though he HAD a queer way with him. But you know, Miss, he's rich an' young, and such like cannot right understand the thoughts of a poor old woman such as me. But, howsever, I did my best to do all as he bade me -- but maybe I'm plaguing you, Miss, wi' my chatter
Oh, no, Nancy! Go on, and tell me all
Well, my rheumatiz got better -- I know not whether wi' going to church or not, but one frosty Sunday I got this cold i' my eyes. Th' inflammation didn't come on all at once like, but bit by bit -- but I wasn't going to tell you about my eyes, I was talking about my trouble o' mind;-- and to tell the truth, Miss Grey, I don't think it was anyways eased by coming to church -- nought to speak on, at least: I like got my health better; but that didn't mend my soul. I hearkened and hearkened the ministers, and read an' read at my prayer-book; but it was all like sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal: the sermons I couldn't understand, an' th' prayer-book only served to show me how wicked I was, that I could read such good words an' never be no better for it, and oftens feel it a sore labour an' a heavy task beside, instead of a blessing and a privilege as all good Christians does. It seemed like as all were barren an' dark to me. And then, them dreadful words, "Many shall seek to enter in, and shall not be able." They like as they fair dried up my sperrit. 'But one Sunday, when Maister Hatfield gave out about the sacrament, I noticed where he said, "If there be any of you that cannot quiet his own conscience, but requireth further comfort or counsel, let him come to me, or some other discreet and learned minister of God's word, and open his grief!" So next Sunday morning, afore service, I just looked into the vestry, an' began a- talking to th' Rector again. I hardly could fashion to take such a liberty, but I thought when my soul was at stake I shouldn't stick at a trifle. But he said he hadn't time to attend to me then. 

' "And, indeed," says he, "I've nothing to say to you but what I've said before. Take the sacrament, of course, and go on doing your duty; and if that won't serve you, nothing will. So don't bother me any more." 

'So then, I went away. But I heard Maister Weston -- Maister Weston was there, Miss -- this was his first Sunday at Horton, you know, an' he was i' th' vestry in his surplice, helping th' Rector on with his gown
Yes, Nancy
canting old fool
He seemed taken aback at that; but he would fain persuade me 'at the Rector was only in jest; and when that wouldn't do, he says, "Well, Nancy, you shouldn't think so much about it: Mr. Hatfield was a little out of humour just then: you know we're none of us perfect -- even Moses spoke unadvisedly with his lips. But now sit down a minute, if you can spare the time, and tell me all your doubts and fears; and I'll try to remove them." 'So I sat me down anent him. He was quite a stranger, you know, Miss Grey, and even YOUNGER nor Maister Hatfield, I believe; and I had thought him not so pleasant-looking as him, and rather a bit crossish, at first, to look at; but he spake so civil like -- and when th' cat, poor thing, jumped on to his knee, he only stroked her, and gave a bit of a smile: so I thought that was a good sign; for once, when she did so to th' Rector, he knocked her off, like as it might be in scorn and anger, poor thing. But you can't expect a cat to know manners like a Christian, you know, Miss Grey
No; of course not, Nancy. But what did Mr. Weston say then
He said nought; but he listened to me as steady an' patient as could be, an' never a bit o' scorn about him; so I went on, an' telled him all, just as I've telled you -- an' more too. ' "Well," says he, "Mr. Hatfield was quite right in telling you to persevere in doing your duty; but in advising you to go to church and attend to the service, and so on, he didn't mean that was the whole of a Christian's duty: he only thought you might there learn what more was to be done, and be led to take delight in those exercises, instead of finding them a task and a burden. And if you had asked him to explain those words that trouble you so much, I think he would have told you, that if many shall seek to enter in at the strait gate and shall not be able, it is their own sins that hinder them; just as a man with a large sack on his back might wish to pass through a narrow doorway, and find it impossible to do so unless he would leave his sack behind him. But you, Nancy, I dare say, have no sins that you would not gladly throw aside, if you knew how?" 

' "Indeed, sir, you speak truth," said I. 

' "Well," says he, "you know the first and great commandment -- and the second, which is like unto it -- on which two commandments hang all the law and the prophets? You say you cannot love God; but it strikes me that if you rightly consider who and what He is, you cannot help it. He is your father, your best friend: every blessing, everything good, pleasant, or useful, comes from Him; and everything evil, everything you have reason to hate, to shun, or to fear, comes from Satan -- HIS enemy as well as ours. And for THIS cause was God manifest in the flesh, that He might destroy the works of the Devil: in one word, God is LOVE; and the more of love we have within us, the nearer we are to Him and the more of His spirit we possess." 

' "Well, sir," I said, "if I can always think on these things, I think I might well love God: but how can I love my neighbours, when they vex me, and be so contrary and sinful as some on 'em is?" 

' "It may seem a hard matter," says he, "to love our neighbours, who have so much of what is evil about them, and whose faults so often awaken the evil that lingers within ourselves; but remember that HE made them, and HE loves them; and whosoever loveth him that begat, loveth him that is begotten also. And if God so loveth us, that He gave His only begotten Son to die for us, we ought also to love one another. But if you cannot feel positive affection for those who do not care for you, you can at least try to do to them as you would they should do unto you: you can endeavour to pity their failings and excuse their offences, and to do all the good you can to those about you. And if you accustom yourself to this, Nancy, the very effort itself will make you love them in some degree -- to say nothing of the goodwill your kindness would beget in them, though they might have little else that is good about them. If we love God and wish to serve Him, let us try to be like Him, to do His work, to labour for His glory -- which is the good of man -- to hasten the coming of His kingdom, which is the peace and happiness of all the world: however powerless we may seem to be, in doing all the good we can through life, the humblest of us may do much towards it: and let us dwell in love, that He may dwell in us and we in Him. The more happiness we bestow, the more we shall receive, even here; and the greater will be our reward in heaven when we rest from our labours." I believe, Miss, them is his very words, for I've thought 'em ower many a time. An' then he took that Bible, an' read bits here and there, an' explained 'em as clear as the day: and it seemed like as a new light broke in on my soul; an' I felt fair aglow about my heart, an' only wished poor Bill an' all the world could ha' been there, an' heard it all, and rejoiced wi' me. 

'After he was gone, Hannah Rogers, one o' th' neighbours, came in and wanted me to help her to wash. I telled her I couldn't just then, for I hadn't set on th' potaties for th' dinner, nor washed up th' breakfast stuff yet. So then she began a-calling me for my nasty idle ways. I was a little bit vexed at first, but I never said nothing wrong to her: I only telled her like all in a quiet way, 'at I'd had th' new parson to see me; but I'd get done as quick as ever I could, an' then come an' help her. So then she softened down; and my heart like as it warmed towards her, an' in a bit we was very good friends. An' so it is, Miss Grey, "a soft answer turneth away wrath; but grievous words stir up anger." It isn't only in them you speak to, but in yourself
Very true, Nancy, if we could always remember it
Ay, if we could
And did Mr. Weston ever come to see you again
Yes, many a time; and since my eyes has been so bad, he's sat an' read to me by the half-hour together: but you know, Miss, he has other folks to see, and other things to do -- God bless him! An' that next Sunday he preached SUCH a sermon! His text was, "Come unto me all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest," and them two blessed verses that follows. You wasn't there, Miss, you was with your friends then -- but it made me SO happy! And I AM happy now, thank God! an' I take a pleasure, now, in doing little bits o' jobs for my neighbours -- such as a poor old body 'at's half blind can do; and they take it kindly of me, just as he said. You see, Miss, I'm knitting a pair o' stockings now;-- they're for Thomas Jackson: he's a queerish old body, an' we've had many a bout at threaping, one anent t'other; an' at times we've differed sorely. So I thought I couldn't do better nor knit him a pair o' warm stockings; an' I've felt to like him a deal better, poor old man, sin' I began. It's turned out just as Maister Weston said
Well, I'm very glad to see you so happy, Nancy, and so wise: but I must go now; I shall be wanted at the Hall
Whereas
ull pray with me quite in a different fashion, an' talk to me as kind as owt; an' oft read to me too, an' sit beside me just like a brother
Just for all the world
ud do that, 'at has as little as he has: for you know, mum, he's nowt at all to live on but what he gets fra' th' Rector, an' that's little enough they say
You're to go to the schoolroom DIRECTLY, mum, the young ladies is WAITING
I'm feared o' th' gamekeepers
that's all 'at I think on. If th' young gentlemen had been at home, I should a' thought they'd been setting their dogs at her, an' worried her, poor thing, as they did MANY a poor thing's cat; but I haven't that to be feared on now
An' you'll be a bit o' company for me too, Miss
I like as I feel lonesome without my cat
I've done you a piece of good service, Nancy
I've delivered your cat
from the hands, or rather the gun, of Mr. Murray's gamekeeper
God bless you, sir
Take care of it
and don't let it go near the rabbit- warren, for the gamekeeper swears he'll shoot it if he sees it there again: he would have done so to-day, if I had not been in time to stop him. I believe it is raining, Miss Grey
Don't let me disturb you -- I shan't stay two minutes
You'll BOTH stay while this shower gets owered
what! there's room for all
I can see better here, thank you, Nancy
I have another place to go to
and I see' (glancing at the book on the table) 'someone else has been reading to you
Yes, sir; Miss Grey has been as kind as read me a chapter; an' now she's helping me with a shirt for our Bill -- but I'm feared she'll be cold there. Won't you come to th' fire, Miss
No, thank you, Nancy, I'm quite warm. I must go as soon as this shower is over
Oh, Miss! You said you could stop while dusk
Nay, sir
pray don't go now, while it rains so fast
But it strikes me I'm keeping your visitor away from the fire
No, you're not, Mr. Weston
No, sure
What, there's lots o' room
Miss Grey
I wish you would make my peace with the squire, when you see him. He was by when I rescued Nancy's cat, and did not quite approve of the deed. I told him I thought he might better spare all his rabbits than she her cat, for which audacious assertion he treated me to some rather ungentlemanly language; and I fear I retorted a trifle too warmly
Oh, lawful sir! I hope you didn't fall out wi' th' maister for sake o' my cat! he cannot bide answering again -- can th' maister
Oh! it's no matter, Nancy: I don't care about it, really; I said nothing VERY uncivil; and I suppose Mr. Murray is accustomed to use rather strong language when he's heated
Ay, sir: it's a pity
And now, I really must go. I have to visit a place a mile beyond this; and you would not have me to return in the dark: besides, it has nearly done raining now -- so good-evening, Nancy. Good-evening, Miss Grey
Good-evening, Mr. Weston; but don't depend upon me for making your peace with Mr. Murray, for I never see him -- to speak to
Don't you; it can't be helped then
But never mind; I imagine the squire has more to apologise for than I
Miss Grey, whatever have you been about? I've had tea half an hour ago, and had to make it myself, and drink it all alone! I wish you would come in sooner
I've been to see Nancy Brown. I thought you would not be back from your ride
How could I ride in the rain, I should like to know. That damned pelting shower was vexatious enough -- coming on when I was just in full swing: and then to come and find nobody in to tea! and you know I can't make the tea as I like it
I didn't think of the shower
No, of course; you were under shelter yourself, and you never thought of other people
Allow me to gather them for you, Miss Grey
Your young ladies have left you alone
Yes, they are occupied with more agreeable company
Then don't trouble yourself to overtake them
Yes; very much
wild-flowers especially
_I_ like wild-flowers
others I don't care about, because I have no particular associations connected with them -- except one or two. What are your favourite flowers
Primroses, bluebells, and heath-blossoms
Not violets
No; because, as you say, I have no particular associations connected with them; for there are no sweet violets among the hills and valleys round my home
It must be a great consolation to you to have a home, Miss Grey
however remote, or however seldom visited, still it is something to look to
It is so much that I think I could not live without it
Oh, yes, you could
I speak from experience -- partly my own. There was a time when I thought as you do -- at least, I was fully persuaded that home and its affections were the only things that made life tolerable: that, if deprived of these, existence would become a burden hard to be endured; but now I have no home -- unless you would dignify my two hired rooms at Horton by such a name;-- and not twelve months ago I lost the last and dearest of my early friends; and yet, not only I live, but I am not wholly destitute of hope and comfort, even for this life: though I must acknowledge that I can seldom enter even an humble cottage at the close of day, and see its inhabitants peaceably gathered around their cheerful hearth, without a feeling ALMOST of envy at their domestic enjoyment
You don't know what happiness lies before you yet
you are now only in the commencement of your journey
The best of happiness
is mine already -- the power and the will to be useful
useful
But
he is not so miserable as I should be under such a deprivation: he leads an active life; and a wide field for useful exertion lies before him. He can MAKE friends; and he can make a home too, if he pleases; and, doubtless, he will please some time. God grant the partner of that home may be worthy of his choice, and make it a happy one -- such a home as he deserves to have! And how delightful it would be to
Oh-ho, Miss Grey! you're come at last, are you? No WONDER you lingered so long behind; and no WONDER you always stand up so vigorously for Mr. Weston when I abuse him. Ah-ha! I see it all now
Now, come, Miss Murray, don't be foolish
you know such nonsense can make no impression on me
What folly all this is
If Mr. Weston's road happened to be the same as mine for a few yards, and if he chose to exchange a word or two in passing, what is there so remarkable in that? I assure you, I never spoke to him before: except once
Where? where? and when
In Nancy's cottage
Ah-ha! you've met him there, have you
Ah! now, Matilda, I've found out why she's so fond of going to Nancy Brown's! She goes there to flirt with Mr. Weston
Really, that is not worth contradicting -- I only saw him there once, I tell you -- and how could I know he was coming
Thy will be done
Father, all things are possible with Thee, and may it be Thy will
But, Father, THOU wilt NOT despise
Miss Grey
dear! how can you sit at your drawing such a day as this
I WONDER you don't put on your bonnet and go out with the young ladies
I think, ma'am, Miss Murray is reading; and Miss Matilda is amusing herself with her dogs
If you would try to amuse Miss Matilda yourself a little more, I think she would not be driven to seek amusement in the companionship of dogs and horses and grooms, so much as she is; and if you would be a little more cheerful and conversable with Miss Murray, she would not so often go wandering in the fields with a book in her hand. However, I don't want to vex you
Do, pray, try not to be so touchy -- there's no speaking to you else. And tell me if you know where Rosalie is gone: and why she likes to be so much alone
She says she likes to be alone when she has a new book to read
But why can't she read it in the park or the garden?-- why should she go into the fields and lanes? And how is it that that Mr. Hatfield so often finds her out? She told me last week he'd walked his horse by her side all up Moss Lane; and now I'm sure it was he I saw, from my dressing-room window, walking so briskly past the park-gates, and on towards the field where she so frequently goes. I wish you would go and see if she is there; and just gently remind her that it is not proper for a young lady of her rank and prospects to be wandering about by herself in that manner, exposed to the attentions of anyone that presumes to address her; like some poor neglected girl that has no park to walk in, and no friends to take care of her: and tell her that her papa would be extremely angry if he knew of her treating Mr. Hatfield in the familiar manner that I fear she does; and -- oh! if you -- if ANY governess had but half a mother's watchfulness -- half a mother's anxious care, I should be saved this trouble; and you would see at once the necessity of keeping your eye upon her, and making your company agreeable to -- Well, go -- go; there's no time to be lost
When shall I see you again, Miss Murray
At church, I suppose
unless your business chances to bring you here again at the precise moment when I happen to be walking by
I could always manage to have business here, if I knew precisely when and where to find you
But if I would, I could not inform you, for I am so immethodical, I never can tell to-day what I shall do to-morrow
Then give me that, meantime, to comfort me
No, indeed, I shan't
Do! PRAY do! I shall be the most miserable of men if you don't. You cannot be so cruel as to deny me a favour so easily granted and yet so highly prized
There then! take it and go
Did you ever see such a man, Miss Grey
I'm so GLAD you came! I thought I never SHOULD, get rid of him; and I was so terribly afraid of papa seeing him
Has he been with you long
No, not long, but he's so extremely impertinent: and he's always hanging about, pretending his business or his clerical duties require his attendance in these parts, and really watching for poor me, and pouncing upon me wherever he sees me
Well, your mamma thinks you ought not to go beyond the park or garden without some discreet, matronly person like me to accompany you, and keep off all intruders. She descried Mr. Hatfield hurrying past the park-gates, and forthwith despatched me with instructions to seek you up and to take care of you, and likewise to warn
Oh, mamma's so tiresome! As if I couldn't take care of myself. She bothered me before about Mr. Hatfield; and I told her she might trust me: I never should forget my rank and station for the most delightful man that ever breathed. I wish he would go down on his knees to-morrow, and implore me to be his wife, that I might just show her how mistaken she is in supposing that I could ever -- Oh, it provokes me so! To think that I could be such a fool as to fall in LOVE! It is quite beneath the dignity of a woman to do such a thing. Love! I detest the word! As applied to one of our sex, I think it a perfect insult. A preference I MIGHT acknowledge; but never for one like poor Mr. Hatfield, who has not seven hundred a year to bless himself with. I like to talk to him, because he's so clever and amusing -- I wish Sir Thomas Ashby were half as nice; besides, I must have SOMEBODY to flirt with, and no one else has the sense to come here; and when we go out, mamma won't let me flirt with anybody but Sir Thomas -- if he's there; and if he's NOT there, I'm bound hand and foot, for fear somebody should go and make up some exaggerated story, and put it into his head that I'm engaged, or likely to be engaged, to somebody else; or, what is more probable, for fear his nasty old mother should see or hear of my ongoings, and conclude that I'm not a fit wife for her excellent son: as if the said son were not the greatest scamp in Christendom; and as if any woman of common decency were not a world too good for him
Is it really so, Miss Murray? and does your mamma know it, and yet wish you to marry him
To be sure, she does! She knows more against him than I do, I believe: she keeps it from me lest I should be discouraged; not knowing how little I care about such things. For it's no great matter, really: he'll be all right when he's married, as mamma says; and reformed rakes make the best husbands, EVERYBODY knows. I only wish he were not so ugly -- THAT'S all _I_ think about: but then there's no choice here in the country; and papa WILL NOT let us go to London
But I should think Mr. Hatfield would be far better
And so he would, if he were lord of Ashby Park -- there's not a doubt of it: but the fact is, I MUST have Ashby Park, whoever shares it with me
But Mr. Hatfield thinks you like him all this time; you don't consider how bitterly he will be disappointed when he finds himself mistaken
NO, indeed! It will be a proper punishment for his presumption -- for ever DARING to think I could like him. I should enjoy nothing so much as lifting the veil from his eyes
The sooner you do it the better then
No; I tell you, I like to amuse myself with him. Besides, he doesn't really think I like him. I take good care of that: you don't know how cleverly I manage. He may presume to think he can induce me to like him; for which I shall punish him as he deserves
Well, mind you don't give too much reason for such presumption -- that's all
Surely
she is not so indifferent to him as she believes herself to be, or would have others to believe her; and her mother's anxiety is not so wholly causeless as she affirms
Oh, Miss Grey! do be so kind as to go and see Mark Wood, and take his wife half-a-crown from me -- I should have given or sent it a week ago, but quite forgot. There
Never mind getting it out now, but take the purse and give them what you like; I would go with you, but I want to finish this volume. I'll come and meet you when I've done it. Be quick, will you -- and -- oh, wait; hadn't you better read to him a bit? Run to the house and get some sort of a good book. Anything will do
Never mind
there'll be no great harm done. Poor Mark will be glad of the half-crown, and perhaps of the good book too; and if the Rector does steal Miss Rosalie's heart, it will only humble her pride a little; and if they do get married at last, it will only save her from a worse fate; and she will be quite a good enough partner for him, and he for her
Now, Miss Grey, think yourself highly honoured, for I'm come to tell you my news before I've breathed a word of it to anyone else
Well, what is it
Oh, SUCH news! In the first place, you must know that Mr. Hatfield came upon me just after you were gone. I was in such a way for fear papa or mamma should see him; but you know I couldn't call you back again, and so!-- oh, dear! I can't tell you all about it now, for there's Matilda, I see, in the park, and I must go and open my budget to her. But, however, Hatfield was most uncommonly audacious, unspeakably complimentary, and unprecedentedly tender -- tried to be so, at least -- he didn't succeed very well in THAT, because it's not his vein. I'll tell you all he said another time
But what did YOU say -- I'm more interested in that
I'll tell you that, too, at some future period. I happened to be in a very good humour just then; but, though I was complaisant and gracious enough, I took care not to compromise myself in any possible way. But, however, the conceited wretch chose to interpret my amiability of temper his own way, and at length presumed upon my indulgence so far -- what do you think?-- he actually made me an offer
And you
I proudly drew myself up, and with the greatest coolness expressed my astonishment at such an occurrence, and hoped he had seen nothing in my conduct to justify his expectations. You should have SEEN how his countenance fell! He went perfectly white in the face. I assured him that I esteemed him and all that, but could not possibly accede to his proposals; and if I did, papa and mamma could never be brought to give their consent
But if they could," said he, "would yours be wanting?" ' "Certainly, Mr. Hatfield," I replied, with a cool decision which quelled all hope at once. Oh, if you had seen how dreadfully mortified he was -- how crushed to the earth by his disappointment! really, I almost pitied him myself. 

'One more desperate attempt, however, he made. After a silence of considerable duration, during which he struggled to be calm, and I to be grave -- for I felt a strong propensity to laugh -- which would have ruined all -- he said, with the ghost of a smile -- "But tell me plainly, Miss Murray, if I had the wealth of Sir Hugh Meltham, or the prospects of his eldest son, would you still refuse me? Answer me truly, upon your honour." 

' "Certainly," said I. "That would make no difference whatever." 

'It was a great lie, but he looked so confident in his own attractions still, that I determined not to leave him one stone upon another. He looked me full in the face; but I kept my countenance so well that he could not imagine I was saying anything more than the actual truth. 

' "Then it's all over, I suppose," he said, looking as if he could have died on the spot with vexation and the intensity of his despair. But he was angry as well as disappointed. There was he, suffering so unspeakably, and there was I, the pitiless cause of it all, so utterly impenetrable to all the artillery of his looks and words, so calmly cold and proud, he could not but feel some resentment; and with singular bitterness he began -- "I certainly did not expect this, Miss Murray. I might say something about your past conduct, and the hopes you have led me to foster, but I forbear, on condition --" 

' "No conditions, Mr. Hatfield!" said I, now truly indignant at his insolence. 

' "Then let me beg it as a favour," he replied, lowering his voice at once, and taking a humbler tone: "let me entreat that you will not mention this affair to anyone whatever. If you will keep silence about it, there need be no unpleasantness on either side -- nothing, I mean, beyond what is quite unavoidable: for my own feelings I will endeavour to keep to myself, if I cannot annihilate them -- I will try to forgive, if I cannot forget the cause of my sufferings. I will not suppose, Miss Murray, that you know how deeply you have injured me. I would not have you aware of it; but if, in addition to the injury you have already done me -- pardon me, but, whether innocently or not, you HAVE done it -- and if you add to it by giving publicity to this unfortunate affair, or naming it AT ALL, you will find that I too can speak, and though you scorned my love, you will hardly scorn my --" 

'He stopped, but he bit his bloodless lip, and looked so terribly fierce that I was quite frightened. However, my pride upheld me still, and I answered disdainfully; "I do not know what motive you suppose I could have for naming it to anyone, Mr. Hatfield; but if I were disposed to do so, you would not deter me by threats; and it is scarcely the part of a gentleman to attempt it." 

' "Pardon me, Miss Murray," said he, "I have loved you so intensely- -I do still adore you so deeply, that I would not willingly offend you; but though I never have loved, and never CAN love any woman as I have loved you, it is equally certain that I never was so ill- treated by any. On the contrary, I have always found your sex the kindest and most tender and obliging of God's creation, till now." (Think of the conceited fellow saying that!) "And the novelty and harshness of the lesson you have taught me to-day, and the bitterness of being disappointed in the only quarter on which the happiness of my life depended, must excuse any appearance of asperity. If my presence is disagreeable to you, Miss Murray," he said (for I was looking about me to show how little I cared for him, so he thought I was tired of him, I suppose)--"if my presence is disagreeable to you, Miss Murray, you have only to promise me the favour I named, and I will relieve you at once. There are many ladies -- some even in this parish -- who would be delighted to accept what you have so scornfully trampled under your feet. They would be naturally inclined to hate one whose surpassing loveliness has so completely estranged my heart from them and blinded me to their attractions; and a single hint of the truth from me to one of these would be sufficient to raise such a talk against you as would seriously injure your prospects, and diminish your chance of success with any other gentleman you or your mamma might design to entangle." 

' "What do your mean, sir?" said I, ready to stamp with passion. 

' "I mean that this affair from beginning to end appears to me like a case of arrant flirtation, to say the least of it -- such a case as you would find it rather inconvenient to have blazoned through the world: especially with the additions and exaggerations of your female rivals, who would be too glad to publish the matter, if I only gave them a handle to it. But I promise you, on the faith of a gentleman, that no word or syllable that could tend to your prejudice shall ever escape my lips, provided you will --" 

' "Well, well, I won't mention it," said I. "You may rely upon my silence, if that can afford you any consolation." 

' "You promise it?" 

' "Yes," I answered; for I wanted to get rid of him now. 

' "Farewell, then!" said he, in a most doleful, heart-sick tone; and with a look where pride vainly struggled against despair, he turned and went away: longing, no doubt, to get home, that he might shut himself up in his study and cry -- if he doesn't burst into tears before he gets there
But you have broken your promise already
Oh! it's only to you; I know you won't repeat it
Certainly, I shall not: but you say you are going to tell your sister; and she will tell your brothers when they come home, and Brown immediately, if you do not tell her yourself; and Brown will blazon it, or be the means of blazoning it, throughout the country
No, indeed, she won't. We shall not tell her at all, unless it be under the promise of the strictest secrecy
But how can you expect her to keep her promises better than her more enlightened mistress
Well, well, she shan't hear it then
But you will tell your mamma, of course
and she will tell your papa
Of course I shall tell mamma -- that is the very thing that pleases me so much. I shall now be able to convince her how mistaken she was in her fears about me
Oh, THAT'S it, is it? I was wondering what it was that delighted you so much
Yes; and another thing is, that I've humbled Mr. Hatfield so charmingly; and another -- why, you must allow me some share of female vanity: I don't pretend to be without that most essential attribute of our sex -- and if you had seen poor Hatfield's intense eagerness in making his ardent declaration and his flattering proposal, and his agony of mind, that no effort of pride could conceal, on being refused, you would have allowed I had some cause to be gratified
The greater his agony, I should think, the less your cause for gratification
Oh, nonsense
You either can't understand me, or you won't. If I had not confidence in your magnanimity, I should think you envied me. But you will, perhaps, comprehend this cause of pleasure -- which is as great as any -- namely, that I am delighted with myself for my prudence, my self-command, my heartlessness, if you please. I was not a bit taken by surprise, not a bit confused, or awkward, or foolish; I just acted and spoke as I ought to have done, and was completely my own mistress throughout. And here was a man, decidedly good-looking -- Jane and Susan Green call him bewitchingly handsome I suppose they're two of the ladies he pretends would be so glad to have him; but, however, he was certainly a very clever, witty, agreeable companion -- not what you call clever, but just enough to make him entertaining; and a man one needn't be ashamed of anywhere, and would not soon grow tired of; and to confess the truth, I rather liked him -- better even, of late, than Harry Meltham -- and he evidently idolised me; and yet, though he came upon me all alone and unprepared, I had the wisdom, and the pride, and the strength to refuse him -- and so scornfully and coolly as I did: I have good reason to be proud of that
And are you equally proud of having told him that his having the wealth of Sir Hugh Meltham would make no difference to you, when that was not the case; and of having promised to tell no one of his misadventure, apparently without the slightest intention of keeping your promise
Of course! what else could I do? You would not have had me -- but I see, Miss Grey, you're not in a good temper. Here's Matilda; I'll see what she and mamma have to say about it
Oh, dear! I wish Hatfield had not been so precipitate
There's no inducement to go out now; and nothing to look forward to. The days will be so long and dull when there are no parties to enliven them; and there are none this week, or next either, that I know of
Pity you were so cross to him
He'll never come again: and I suspect you liked him after all. I hoped you would have taken him for your beau, and left dear Harry to me
Humph! my beau must be an Adonis indeed, Matilda, the admired of all beholders, if I am to be contented with him alone. I'm sorry to lose Hatfield, I confess; but the first decent man, or number of men, that come to supply his place, will be more than welcome. It's Sunday to-morrow -- I do wonder how he'll look, and whether he'll be able to go through the service. Most likely he'll pretend he's got a cold, and make Mr. Weston do it all
Not he
Fool as he is, he's not so soft as that comes to
You all reverence and adore me, I know; but if anyone does not, I defy him to the teeth
used him up so soon
what Hatfield would do or say, if we met him
such a fool as to get married and go and live in London
Why
I thought you wanted to live in London yourself
Yes, because it's so dull here: but then he makes it still duller by taking himself off: and if he were not married I might have him instead of that odious Sir Thomas
wondered whether it was a gentleman's horse
wondered who the rider could be
wondered why the stupid people couldn't keep in their houses; she was sure she didn't want to see their ugly faces, and dirty, vulgar clothes -- it wasn't for that she came to Horton
Stupid things
Why couldn't they have their dolt of a brother with them? even he would be better than nothing
You are alone again, Miss Grey
Yes
What kind of people are those ladies -- the Misses Green
I really don't know
That's strange -- when you live so near and see them so often
Well, I suppose they are lively, good-tempered girls; but I imagine you must know them better than I do, yourself, for I never exchanged a word with either of them
Indeed? They don't strike me as being particularly reserved
Very likely they are not so to people of their own class; but they consider themselves as moving in quite a different sphere from me
I suppose it's these things, Miss Grey, that make you think you could not live without a home
Not exactly. The fact is I am too socially disposed to be able to live contentedly without a friend; and as the only friends I have, or am likely to have, are at home, if it -- or rather, if they were gone -- I will not say I could not live -- but I would rather not live in such a desolate world
But why do you say the only friends you are likely to have? Are you so unsociable that you cannot make friends
No, but I never made one yet; and in my present position there is no possibility of doing so, or even of forming a common acquaintance. The fault may be partly in myself, but I hope not altogether
The fault is partly in society, and partly, I should think, in your immediate neighbours: and partly, too, in yourself; for many ladies, in your position, would make themselves be noticed and accounted of. But your pupils should be companions for you in some degree; they cannot be many years younger than yourself
Oh, yes, they are good company sometimes; but I cannot call them friends, nor would they think of bestowing such a name on me -- they have other companions better suited to their tastes
Perhaps you are too wise for them. How do you amuse yourself when alone -- do you read much
Reading is my favourite occupation, when I have leisure for it and books to read
And why should he interest himself at all in my moral and intellectual capacities: what is it to him what I think or feel
I thought I could do it
Do what
Fix that man
What in the world do you mean
I mean that he will go home and dream of me. I have shot him through the heart
How do you know
By many infallible proofs: more especially the look he gave me when he went away. It was not an impudent look -- I exonerate him from that -- it was a look of reverential, tender adoration. Ha, ha! he's not quite such a stupid blockhead as I thought him
O God, avert it
for his sake, not for mine
Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are honest and of good report, think on these things
And at what time will you be most likely to come, Mr. Weston? The old woman will like to know when to expect you -- you know such people think more about having their cottages in order when decent people come to see them than we are apt to suppose
No, thank you, I don't mind the rain
But you don't LIKE it, I suppose?-- an umbrella will do you no harm at any rate
I would have sent the footman back for you, Miss Grey, if you'd waited a moment -- you needn't have taken Mr. Weston's umbrella
I would have come without an umbrella, but Mr. Weston offered me the benefit of his, and I could not have refused it more than I did without offending him
Stupid ass
You don't know what you've lost by not looking this way
What has he lost
A bow from me, that would have raised him to the seventh heaven
I mean to take up Mr. Weston instead of Mr. Hatfield
The ball at Ashby Park takes place on Tuesday, you know; and mamma thinks it very likely that Sir Thomas will propose to me then: such things are often done in the privacy of the ball- room, when gentlemen are most easily ensnared, and ladies most enchanting. But if I am to be married so soon, I must make the best of the present time: I am determined Hatfield shall not be the only man who shall lay his heart at my feet, and implore me to accept the worthless gift in vain
If you mean Mr. Weston to be one of your victims
you will have to make such overtures yourself that you will find it difficult to draw back when he asks you to fulfil the expectations you have raised
I don't suppose he will ask me to marry him, nor should I desire it: that would be rather too much presumption! but I intend him to feel my power. He has felt it already, indeed: but he shall ACKNOWLEDGE it too; and what visionary hopes he may have, he must keep to himself, and only amuse me with the result of them -- for a time
Oh! that some kind spirit would whisper those words in his ear
Oh, I can't, Rosalie! I have to give orders about my new bridle and saddle-cloth, and speak to the rat-catcher about his dogs: Miss Grey must go with you
No, I want you
a mother's watchful, anxious care
Come what will
she deserves it. Sir Thomas cannot be too bad for her; and the sooner she is incapacitated from deceiving and injuring others the better
spunk
Why don't you tell him, at once, that you are engaged
Oh, I don't want him to know that
If he knew it, his sisters and everybody would know it, and then there would be an end of my -- ahem! And, besides, if I told him that, he would think my engagement was the only obstacle, and that I would have him if I were free; which I could not bear that any man should think, and he, of all others, at least. Besides, I don't care for his letters
he may write as often as he pleases, and look as great a calf as he likes when I meet him; it only amuses me
And besides
you can't walk as fast as we do; you know you're always lagging behind
And he asked if you were ill, Miss Grey
but we told him you were quite well, only you didn't want to come to church -- so he'll think you're turned wicked
And he asked after you again
He wondered why you were never with us, and thought you must have delicate health, as you came out so seldom
He didn't Matilda -- what nonsense you're talking
Oh, Rosalie, what a lie! He did, you know; and you said -- Don't, Rosalie -- hang it!-- I won't be pinched so! And, Miss Grey, Rosalie told him you were quite well, but you were always so buried in your books that you had no pleasure in anything else
What an idea he must have of me
And
does old Nancy ever inquire about me
Yes; and we tell her you are so fond of reading and drawing that you can do nothing else
That is not the case though; if you had told her I was so busy I could not come to see her, it would have been nearer the truth
I don't think it would
I'm sure you have plenty of time to yourself now, when you have so little teaching to do
She will soon be married; and then there may be hope
Oh, if he could but know the difference
But no! I would not have him see my heart: yet, if he could but know her hollowness, her worthless, heartless frivolity, he would then be safe, and I should be -- ALMOST happy, though I might never see him more
Now, Miss Grey, I'm Lady Ashby
It's done, my fate is sealed: there's no drawing back now. I'm come to receive your congratulations and bid you good-by; and then I'm off for Paris, Rome, Naples, Switzerland, London -- oh, dear! what a deal I shall see and hear before I come back again. But don't forget me: I shan't forget you, though I've been a naughty girl. Come, why don't you congratulate me
I cannot congratulate you
till I know whether this change is really for the better: but I sincerely hope it is; and I wish you true happiness and the best of blessings
Well, good-by, the carriage is waiting, and they're calling me
Tilly, though she would have made a fine lad, was not quite what a young lady ought to be
DEAR Miss Grey! it is the STRANGEST thing. I suppose you can't help it, if it's not in your nature -- but I WONDER you can't win the confidence of that girl, and make your society at LEAST as agreeable to her as that of Robert or Joseph
They can talk the best about the things in which she is most interested
Well! that is a strange confession, HOWEVER, to come from her GOVERNESS! Who is to form a young lady's tastes, I wonder, if the governess doesn't do it? I have known governesses who have so completely identified themselves with the reputation of their young ladies for elegance and propriety in mind and manners, that they would blush to speak a word against them; and to hear the slightest blame imputed to their pupils was worse than to be censured in their own persons -- and I really think it very natural, for my part
Do you, ma'am
Yes, of course: the young lady's proficiency and elegance is of more consequence to the governess than her own, as well as to the world. If she wishes to prosper in her vocation she must devote all her energies to her business: all her ideas and all her ambition will tend to the accomplishment of that one object. When we wish to decide upon the merits of a governess, we naturally look at the young ladies she professes to have educated, and judge accordingly. The JUDICIOUS governess knows this: she knows that, while she lives in obscurity herself, her pupils' virtues and defects will be open to every eye; and that, unless she loses sight of herself in their cultivation, she need not hope for success. You see, Miss Grey, it is just the same as any other trade or profession: they that wish to prosper must devote themselves body and soul to their calling; and if they begin to yield to indolence or self-indulgence they are speedily distanced by wiser competitors: there is little to choose between a person that ruins her pupils by neglect, and one that corrupts them by her example. You will excuse my dropping these little hints: you know it is all for your own good. Many ladies would speak to you much more strongly; and many would not trouble themselves to speak at all, but quietly look out for a substitute. That, of course, would be the EASIEST plan: but I know the advantages of a place like this to a person in your situation; and I have no desire to part with you, as I am sure you would do very well if you will only think of these things and try to exert yourself a LITTLE more: then, I am convinced, you would SOON acquire that delicate tact which alone is wanting to give you a proper influence over the mind of your pupil
Yes
She was at Paris when she wrote, and very well, and very happy
I hope she will continue to be so
Do you think it likely
I cannot tell
Sir Thomas may be a better man than I suppose; but, from all I have heard and seen, it seems a pity that one so young and gay, and -- and interesting, to express many things by one word -- whose greatest, if not her only fault, appears to be thoughtlessness -- no trifling fault to be sure, since it renders the possessor liable to almost every other, and exposes him to so many temptations -- but it seems a pity that she should be thrown away on such a man. It was her mother's wish, I suppose
Yes; and her own too, I think, for she always laughed at my attempts to dissuade her from the step
You did attempt it? Then, at least, you will have the satisfaction of knowing that it is no fault of yours, if any harm should come of it. As for Mrs. Murray, I don't know how she can justify her conduct: if I had sufficient acquaintance with her, I'd ask her
It seems unnatural: but some people think rank and wealth the chief good; and, if they can secure that for their children, they think they have done their duty
True: but is it not strange that persons of experience, who have been married themselves, should judge so falsely
Was it your intention to kill that hare, or to save it, Miss Murray
I pretended to want to save it
as it was so glaringly out of season; but I was better pleased to see it lolled. However, you can both witness that I couldn't help it: Prince was determined to have her; and he clutched her by the back, and killed her in a minute! Wasn't it a noble chase
Very! for a young lady after a leveret
Humph
Didn't you see how it doubled -- just like an old hare? and didn't you hear it scream
I'm happy to say I did not
It cried out just like a child
Poor little thing! What will you do with it
Come along -- I shall leave it in the first house we come to. I don't want to take it home, for fear papa should scold me for letting the dog kill it
I was told
that you were a perfect bookworm, Miss Grey: so completely absorbed in your studies that you were lost to every other pleasure
Yes, and it's quite true
No, Mr. Weston: don't believe it: it's a scandalous libel. These young ladies are too fond of making random assertions at the expense of their friends; and you ought to be careful how you listen to them
I hope THIS assertion is groundless, at any rate
Why? Do you particularly object to ladies studying
No; but I object to anyone so devoting himself or herself to study, as to lose sight of everything else. Except under peculiar circumstances, I consider very close and constant study as a waste of time, and an injury to the mind as well as the body
Well, I have neither the time nor the inclination for such transgressions
no need to be in such agitation about the matter -- it might prove a false alarm after all; and if not -- why, it was only in the common course of nature: we must all die some time; and I was not to suppose myself the only afflicted person in the world;' and concluding with saying I might have the phaeton to take me to O-. 'And instead of REPINING, Miss Grey, be thankful for the PRIVILEGES you enjoy. There's many a poor clergyman whose family would be plunged into ruin by the event of his death; but you, you see, have influential friends ready to continue their patronage, and to show you every consideration
consideration
Agnes
Oh, Agnes
How is he
Dead
No, Mary
if Richardson and you have anything to spare, you must lay it aside for your family; and Agnes and I must gather honey for ourselves. Thanks to my having had daughters to educate, I have not forgotten my accomplishments. God willing, I will check this vain repining
I will exert myself, and look out for a small house, commodiously situated in some populous but healthy district, where we will take a few young ladies to board and educate -- if we can get them -- and as many day pupils as will come, or as we can manage to instruct. Your father's relations and old friends will be able to send us some pupils, or to assist us with their recommendations, no doubt: I shall not apply to my own. What say you to it, Agnes? will you be willing to leave your present situation and try
Quite willing, mamma; and the money I have saved will do to furnish the house. It shall be taken from the bank directly
When it is wanted: we must get the house, and settle on preliminaries first
From my father
Will this do, children?-- or shall I say we are all very sorry for what has happened during the last thirty years, and my daughters wish they had never been born; but since they have had that misfortune, they will be thankful for any trifle their grandpapa will be kind enough to bestow
Here is a convincing proof -- if you would but have the sense to see it, or the candour to acknowledge it -- that he does not care for you. If he only thought HALF as much about you as you do about him, he would have contrived to meet you many times ere this: you must know that, by consulting your own feelings. Therefore, have done with this nonsense: you have no ground for hope: dismiss, at once, these hurtful thoughts and foolish wishes from your mind, and turn to your own duty, and the dull blank life that lies before you. You might have known such happiness was not for you
How is your mother
What will she do
Then you will leave this place shortly
Yes, in a month
I should think you will be willing enough to go
Yes -- for some things
For SOME things only -- I wonder what should make you regret it
Why
why should you suppose that I dislike the place
You told me so yourself
You said, at least, that you could not live contentedly, without a friend; and that you had no friend here, and no possibility of making one -- and, besides, I know you MUST dislike it
But if you remember rightly, I said, or meant to say, I could not live contentedly without a friend in the world: I was not so unreasonable as to require one always near me. I think I could be happy in a house full of enemies, if --' but no; that sentence must not be continued -- I paused, and hastily added,--'And, besides, we cannot well leave a place where we have lived for two or three years, without some feeling of regret
Will you regret to part with Miss Murray, your sole remaining pupil and companion
I dare say I shall in some degree: it was not without sorrow I parted with her sister
I can imagine that
Well, Miss Matilda is quite as good -- better in one respect
What is that
She's honest
And the other is not
I should not call her DIShonest; but it must be confessed she's a little artful
ARTFUL is she?-- I saw she was giddy and vain -- and now
I can well believe she was artful too; but so excessively so as to assume an aspect of extreme simplicity and unguarded openness. Yes
that accounts for some little things that puzzled me a trifle before
Yes, Edward Weston, I could indeed be happy in a house full of enemies, if I had but one friend, who truly, deeply, and faithfully loved me; and if that friend were you -- though we might be far apart -- seldom to hear from each other, still more seldom to meet -- though toil, and trouble, and vexation might surround me, still -- it would be too much happiness for me to dream of! Yet who can tell
I suppose you are going this week, Miss Grey
Yes
Well
I want to bid you good-bye -- it is not likely I shall see you again before you go
Good-bye, Mr. Weston
It is possible we may meet again
will it be of any consequence to you whether we do or not
Yes, I should be very glad to see you again
It is possible we may meet again
will it be of any consequence to you whether we do or not
I shall see him again.-- He will come; or he will write
Here, Agnes, this is for you
What a fool you must be
how could you ever dream that he would write to you? What grounds have you for such a hope -- or that he will see you, or give himself any trouble about you -- or even think of you again
What grounds
Well, and what was there in that?-- Who ever hung his hopes upon so frail a twig? What was there in those words that any common acquaintance might not say to another? Of course, it was possible you might meet again: he might have said so if you had been going to New Zealand; but that did not imply any INTENTION of seeing you -- and then, as to the question that followed, anyone might ask that: and how did you answer?-- Merely with a stupid, commonplace reply, such as you would have given to Master Murray, or anyone else you had been on tolerably civil terms with
But, then
the tone and manner in which he spoke
Oh, that is nonsense! he always speaks impressively; and at that moment there were the Greens and Miss Matilda Murray just before, and other people passing by, and he was obliged to stand close beside you, and to speak very low, unless he wished everybody to hear what he said, which -- though it was nothing at all particular -- of course, he would rather not
TRUST me;' and many other things besides -- too delightful, almost too flattering, to be repeated even to one's self. 'Egregious folly -- too absurd to require contradiction -- mere inventions of the imagination, which you ought to be ashamed of. If you would but consider your own unattractive exterior, your unamiable reserve, your foolish diffidence -- which must make you appear cold, dull, awkward, and perhaps ill-tempered too;-- if you had but rightly considered these from the beginning, you would never have harboured such presumptuous thoughts: and now that you have been so foolish, pray repent and amend, and let us have no more of it
Agnes, this sea air and change of scene do you no good, I think: I never saw you look so wretched. It must be that you sit too much, and allow the cares of the schoolroom to worry you. You must learn to take things easy, and to be more active and cheerful; you must take exercise whenever you can get it, and leave the most tiresome duties to me: they will only serve to exercise my patience, and, perhaps, try my temper a little
No; by His help I will arise and address myself diligently to my appointed duty. If happiness in this world is not for me, I will endeavour to promote the welfare of those around me, and my reward shall be hereafter
We have been several days here already
Yours affectionately, 'ROSALIE ASHBY
And some time
I will show you the library: I never examined its shelves, but, I daresay, it is full of wise books; and you may go and burrow among them whenever you please. And now you shall have some tea -- it will soon be dinner-time, but I thought, as you were accustomed to dine at one, you would perhaps like better to have a cup of tea about this time, and to dine when we lunch: and then, you know, you can have your tea in this room, and that will save you from having to dine with Lady Ashby and Sir Thomas: which would be rather awkward -- at least, not awkward, but rather -- a -- you know what I mean. I thought you mightn't like it so well -- especially as we may have other ladies and gentlemen to dine with us occasionally
Certainly
I would much rather have it as you say, and, if you have no objection, I should prefer having all my meals in this room
Why so
Because, I imagine, it would be more agreeable to Lady Ashby and Sir Thomas
Nothing of the kind
At any rate it would be more agreeable to me
Now, come into the drawing-room
There's the dressing bell; but I won't go yet: it's no use dressing when there's no one to see you; and I want to have a little discourse
Why should I disappoint her to save my pride? No -- rather let me sacrifice my pride to give her a little innocent gratification
fine, bold, unruly, mischievous boys
And how are the other people getting on
the Greens, for instance
Ah! Mr. Green is heart-broken, you know
he hasn't got over his disappointment yet, and never will, I suppose. He's doomed to be an old bachelor; and his sisters are doing their best to get married
And the Melthams
Oh, they're jogging on as usual, I suppose: but I know very little about any of them -- except Harry
I saw a great deal of him while we were in London; for, as soon as he heard we were there, he came up under pretence of visiting his brother, and either followed me, like a shadow, wherever I went, or met me, like a reflection, at every turn. You needn't look so shocked, Miss Grey; I was very discreet, I assure you, but, you know, one can't help being admired. Poor fellow! He was not my only worshipper; though he was certainly the most conspicuous, and, I think, the most devoted among them all. And that detestable -- ahem -- and Sir Thomas chose to take offence at him -- or my profuse expenditure, or something -- I don't exactly know what -- and hurried me down to the country at a moment's notice; where I'm to play the hermit, I suppose, for life
And Mr. Hatfield
what is become of him
Oh! he made up to an elderly spinster, and married her, not long since; weighing her heavy purse against her faded charms, and expecting to find that solace in gold which was denied him in love -- ha, ha
Well, and I think that's all -- except Mr. Weston: what is he doing
I don't know, I'm sure. He's gone from Horton
How long since? and where is he gone to
I know nothing about him
except that he went about a month ago -- I never asked where' (I would have asked whether it was to a living or merely another curacy, but thought it better not); 'and the people made a great rout about his leaving
much to Mr. Hatfield's displeasure; for Hatfield didn't like him, because he had too much influence with the common people, and because he was not sufficiently tractable and submissive to him -- and for some other unpardonable sins, I don't know what. But now I positively must go and dress: the second bell will ring directly, and if I come to dinner in this guise, I shall never hear the end of it from Lady Ashby. It's a strange thing one can't be mistress in one's own house! Just ring the bell, and I'll send for my maid, and tell them to get you some tea. Only think of that intolerable woman
Who -- your maid
No;-- my mother-in-law -- and my unfortunate mistake! Instead of letting her take herself off to some other house, as she offered to do when I married, I was fool enough to ask her to live here still, and direct the affairs of the house for me; because, in the first place, I hoped we should spend the greater part of the year, in town, and in the second place, being so young and inexperienced, I was frightened at the idea of having a houseful of servants to manage, and dinners to order, and parties to entertain, and all the rest of it, and I thought she might assist me with her experience; never dreaming she would prove a usurper, a tyrant, an incubus, a spy, and everything else that's detestable. I wish she was dead
Oh, no matter! I never care about the footmen; they're mere automatons: it's nothing to them what their superiors say or do; they won't dare to repeat it; and as to what they think -- if they presume to think at all -- of course, nobody cares for that. It would be a pretty thing indeed, it we were to be tongue-tied by our servants
nasty old woman
If I didn't sit with her in the drawing-room while Sir Thomas is taking his wine
she would never forgive me; and then, if I leave the room the instant he comes -- as I have done once or twice -- it is an unpardonable offence against her dear Thomas. SHE never showed such disrespect to HER husband: and as for affection, wives never think of that now-a-days, she supposes: but things were different in HER time -- as if there was any good to be done by staying in the room, when he does nothing but grumble and scold when he's in a bad humour, talk disgusting nonsense when he's in a good one, and go to sleep on the sofa when he's too stupid for either; which is most frequently the case now, when he has nothing to do but to sot over his wine
But could you not try to occupy his mind with something better; and engage him to give up such habits? I'm sure you have powers of persuasion, and qualifications for amusing a gentleman, which many ladies would be glad to possess
And so you think I would lay myself out for his amusement! No: that's not MY idea of a wife. It's the husband's part to please the wife, not hers to please him; and if he isn't satisfied with her as she is -- and thankful to possess her too -- he isn't worthy of her, that's all. And as for persuasion, I assure you I shan't trouble myself with that: I've enough to do to bear with him as he is, without attempting to work a reform. But I'm sorry I left you so long alone, Miss Grey. How have you passed the time
Chiefly in watching the rooks
Mercy, how dull you must have been! I really must show you the library; and you must ring for everything you want, just as you would in an inn, and make yourself comfortable. I have selfish reasons for wishing to make you happy, because I want you to stay with me, and not fulfil your horrid threat of running away in a day or two
Well, don't let me keep you out of the drawing-room any longer to- night, for at present I am tired and wish to go to bed
I detest that man
Who is it
Sir Thomas Ashby
And do you DETEST him, Miss Murray
Yes, I do, Miss Grey, and despise him too; and if you knew him you would not blame me
But you knew what he was before you married him
No; I only thought so: I did not half know him really. I know you warned me against it, and I wish I had listened to you: but it's too late to regret that now. And besides, mamma ought to have known better than either of us, and she never said anything against it -- quite the contrary. And then I thought he adored me, and would let me have my own way: he did pretend to do so at first, but now he does not care a bit about me. Yet I should not care for that: he might do as he pleased, if I might only be free to amuse myself and to stay in London, or have a few friends down here: but HE WILL do as he pleases, and I must be a prisoner and a slave. The moment he saw I could enjoy myself without him, and that others knew my value better than himself, the selfish wretch began to accuse me of coquetry and extravagance; and to abuse Harry Meltham, whose shoes he was not worthy to clean. And then he must needs have me down in the country, to lead the life of a nun, lest I should dishonour him or bring him to ruin; as if he had not been ten times worse every way, with his betting-book, and his gaming- table, and his opera-girls, and his Lady This and Mrs. That -- yes, and his bottles of wine, and glasses of brandy-and-water too! Oh, I would give ten thousand worlds to be Mss Murray again! It is TOO bad to feel life, health, and beauty wasting away, unfelt and unenjoyed, for such a brute as that
But I can't devote myself entirely to a child
it may die -- which is not at all improbable
But, with care, many a delicate infant has become a strong man or woman
But it may grow so intolerably like its father that I shall hate it
That is not likely; it is a little girl, and strongly resembles its mother
No matter; I should like it better if it were a boy -- only that its father will leave it no inheritance that he can possibly squander away. What pleasure can I have in seeing a girl grow up to eclipse me, and enjoy those pleasures that I am for ever debarred from? But supposing I could be so generous as to take delight in this, still it is ONLY a child; and I can't centre all my hopes in a child: that is only one degree better than devoting oneself to a dog. And as for all the wisdom and goodness you have been trying to instil into me -- that is all very right and proper, I daresay, and if I were some twenty years older, I might fructify by it: but people must enjoy themselves when they are young; and if others won't let them -- why, they must hate them for it
The best way to enjoy yourself is to do what is right and hate nobody. The end of Religion is not to teach us how to die, but how to live; and the earlier you become wise and good, the more of happiness you secure. And now, Lady Ashby, I have one more piece of advice to offer you, which is, that you will not make an enemy of your mother-in-law. Don't get into the way of holding her at arms' length, and regarding her with jealous distrust. I never saw her, but I have heard good as well as evil respecting her; and I imagine that, though cold and haughty in her general demeanour, and even exacting in her requirements, she has strong affections for those who can reach them; and, though so blindly attached to her son, she is not without good principles, or incapable of hearing reason. If you would but conciliate her a little, and adopt a friendly, open manner -- and even confide your grievances to her -- real grievances, such as you have a right to complain of -- it is my firm belief that she would, in time, become your faithful friend, and a comfort and support to you, instead of the incubus you describe her
Your dog remembers you well, Miss Grey
You rise early
Not often so early as this
How far do you purpose to extend your walk
I was thinking of returning -- it must be almost time, I think
But, doubtless, you have had a long enough walk
In what part of the town do you live
I never could discover
You must be an accomplished instructor
No, it is my mother
she manages things so well, and is so active, and clever, and kind
I should like to know your mother. Will you introduce me to her some time, if I call
Yes, willingly
And will you allow me the privilege of an old friend, of looking in upon you now and then
Yes, if -- I suppose so
Yes, if my mother does not object
I suppose so
You don't ask what brings me to A --- ' said he. 'You can't suppose I'm rich enough to come for my own pleasure
I heard you had left Horton
You didn't hear, then, that I had got the living of F
No
we live so completely out of the world, even here, that news seldom reaches me through any quarter; except through the medium of the -- Gazette. But I hope you like your new parish; and that I may congratulate you on the acquisition
I expect to like my parish better a year or two hence, when I have worked certain reforms I have set my heart upon -- or, at least, progressed some steps towards such an achievement. But you may congratulate me now; for I find it very agreeable to HAVE a parish all to myself, with nobody to interfere with me -- to thwart my plans or cripple my exertions: and besides, I have a respectable house in a rather pleasant neighbourhood, and three hundred pounds a year; and, in fact, I have nothing but solitude to complain of, and nothing but a companion to wish for
I am not so presumptuous as to believe that
though you tell it me; but if it were so, I am rather particular in my notions of a companion for life, and perhaps I might not find one to suit me among the ladies you mention
If you require perfection, you never will
I do not -- I have no right to require it, as being so far from perfect myself
You don't often come on to the sands, I think
for I have walked there many times, both morning and evening, since I came, and never seen you till now; and several times, in passing through the town, too, I have looked about for your school -- but I did not think of the -- Road; and once or twice I made inquiries, but without obtaining the requisite information
I fear I am taking you out of your way, Mr. Weston -- I believe the road to F --- lies quite in another direction
I'll leave you at the end of the next street
And when will you come to see mamma
To-morrow -- God willing
I won't offer to restore him to you, Miss Grey
because I like him
Oh, I don't want him
now that he has a good master; I'm quite satisfied
You take it for granted that I am a good one, then
Well, Agnes, you must not take such long walks again before breakfast
You always do things by extremes: now, if you had taken a SHORT walk every morning, and would continue to do so, it would do you good
Well, mamma, I will
But this is worse than lying in bed or bending over your books: you have quite put yourself into a fever
I won't do it again
I met an old friend on the sands to-day, mamma
An old friend! Who could it be
Two old friends, indeed. One was a dog;' and then I reminded her of Snap, whose history I had recounted before, and related the incident of his sudden appearance and remarkable recognition; 'and the other
was Mr. Weston, the curate of Horton
Mr. Weston! I never heard of him before
Yes, you have: I've mentioned him several times, I believe: but you don't remember
I've heard you speak of Mr. Hatfield
Mr. Hatfield was the rector, and Mr. Weston the curate: I used to mention him sometimes in contradistinction to Mr. Hatfield, as being a more efficient clergyman. However, he was on the sands this morning with the dog -- he had bought it, I suppose, from the rat-catcher; and he knew me as well as it did -- probably through its means: and I had a little conversation with him, in the course of which, as he asked about our school, I was led to say something about you, and your good management; and he said he should like to know you, and asked if I would introduce him to you, if he should take the liberty of calling to-morrow; so I said I would. Was I right
Of course. What kind of a man is he
A very RESPECTABLE man, I think: but you will see him to-morrow. He is the new vicar of F ---, and as he has only been there a few weeks, I suppose he has made no friends yet, and wants a little society
Well! I think he's a very sensible man. But why did you sit back there, Agnes
and talk so little
Because you talked so well, mamma, I thought you required no assistance from me: and, besides, he was your visitor, not mine
Agnes:' the name had been timidly spoken at first, but, finding it gave no offence in any quarter, he seemed greatly to prefer that appellation to 'Miss Grey
A beautiful evening, Mrs. Grey
Agnes, I want you to take a walk with me to --' (he named a certain part of the coast -- a bold hill on the land side, and towards the sea a steep precipice, from the summit of which a glorious view is to be had). 'The rain has laid the dust, and cooled and cleared the air, and the prospect will be magnificent. Will you come
Can I go, mamma
Yes; to be sure
I'm afraid I've been walking too fast for you, Agnes
in my impatience to be rid of the town, I forgot to consult your convenience; but now we'll walk as slowly as you please. I see, by those light clouds in the west, there will be a brilliant sunset, and we shall be in time to witness its effect upon the sea, at the most moderate rate of progression
My house is desolate yet, Miss Grey
and I am acquainted now with all the ladies in my parish, and several in this town too; and many others I know by sight and by report; but not one of them will suit me for a companion; in fact, there is only one person in the world that will: and that is yourself; and I want to know your decision
Are you in earnest, Mr. Weston
In earnest! How could you think I should jest on such a subject
I hope I have not been too precipitate
You must have known that it was not my way to flatter and talk soft nonsense, or even to speak the admiration that I felt; and that a single word or glance of mine meant more than the honied phrases and fervent protestations of most other men
I settled everything with Mrs. Grey, while you were putting on your bonnet
She said I might have her consent, if I could obtain yours; and I asked her, in case I should be so happy, to come and live with us -- for I was sure you would like it better. But she refused, saying she could now afford to employ an assistant, and would continue the school till she could purchase an annuity sufficient to maintain her in comfortable lodgings; and, meantime, she would spend her vacations alternately with us and your sister, and should be quite contented if you were happy. And so now I have overruled your objections on her account. Have you any other
No -- none
You love me then
Yes
</text>
