<text>
Red Lion
But Mr Crosbie is only a mere clerk
I don't know what you call a mere clerk, Lily. Mr Fanfaron is a mere barrister, and Mr Boyce is a mere clergyman
You might as well say that Lord de Guest is a mere earl
So he is -- only a mere earl. Had he ever done anything except have fat oxen, one wouldn't say so. You know what I mean by a mere clerk? It isn't much in a man to be in a public office, and yet Mr Crosbie gives himself airs
You don't suppose that Mr Crosbie is the same as John Eames
Then Johnny Eames is a mere clerk
and Mr Crosbie is -- After all, Bell, what is Mr Crosbie, if he is not a mere clerk? Of course, he is older than John Eames; and, as he has been longer at it, I suppose he has more than eighty pounds a year
I am not in Mr Crosbie's confidence. He is in the General Committee Office, I know; and, I believe, has pretty nearly the management of the whole of it. I have heard Bernard say that he has six or seven young men under him, and that -- but, of course, I don't know what he does at his office
I'll tell you what he is, Bell; Mr Crosbie is a swell
swell
What slang words
You know what you called Bernard's friend
Oh; a swell. I fancy I do like slang. I think it's awfully jolly to talk about things being jolly. Only that I was afraid of your nerves I should have called him stunning. It's so slow, you know, to use nothing but words out of a dictionary
I don't think it's nice in talking of gentlemen
Isn't it? Well, I'd like to be nice -- if I knew how
Mr Crosbie is, at any rate, a gentleman, and knows how to make himself pleasant. That was all that I meant. Mamma said a great deal more about him than I did
Mr Crosbie is an Apollo; and I always look upon Apollo as the greatest -- you know what -- that ever lived. I mustn't say the word, because Apollo was a gentleman
Who is talking about Apollo
As sweet and musical as bright Apollo's lute, strung with his hair
What very bad music it must have made
unless, indeed, his hair was very different from ours
It was all sunbeams
Mamma is in the garden
Picking peas, with a sun bonnet on
Let us by all means go and help her
For flowers, of course, I mean
Perhaps not, Uncle Christopher
I haven't had a game of croquet yet
We'll play sides, of course
Bernard and I'll play together
Apollo can't get through the hoops
but then how gracefully he fails to do it
That's not the way we played at
Where was that
A place I was at last summer -- in Shropshire
Then they don't play the game, Mr Crosbie, at the place you were at last summer -- in Shropshire
You mean Lady Hartletop's
Oh! Lady Hartletop's
Then I suppose we must give in
There are the peas to be eaten, you know
Send them up to the Great House
Hopkins would not allow it
He calls that a mixing of things. Hopkins doesn't like mixings
Oh, Lily
I'm sure I beg your pardon, Mr Crosbie. It was Bernard's fault. Bernard, I never will come into a hayfield with you again
Mamma doesn't like going out
I don't think mamma is happy anywhere out of her own drawing-room
Dear darling girl -- and so it should be
Mamma will stay at home to eat the peas
Please, ma'am, cook says, can we have the peas to shell
Cook knows that the young ladies are going to dine at the Great House
Yes, ma'am
She needn't mind getting dinner for me. I will have tea early
Oh! mamma, how good you are
Mamma is always good
I wish, mamma, I could do the same for you oftener
Your uncle did not seem vexed at my not coming
We have not seen him, mamma
We have been ever so far down the fields, and forgot altogether what o'clock it was
I don't think Uncle Christopher was about the place, or we should have met him
But I am vexed with you, mamma. Are not you, Bell? It is very bad of you to stay here all alone, and not come
I suppose mamma likes being at home better than up at the Great House
Well; good-bye, dears. I shall expect you between ten and eleven. But don't hurry yourselves if anything is going on
Well, girls, you're not much too soon. I think your mother might have come with you
I think mamma was tired
Hem. It's not so very far across from one house to the other. If I were to shut myself up whenever I'm tired --. But never mind. Let's go to dinner. Mr Crosbie, will you take my niece Lilian
If he scolds mamma any more, I'll go away
There's mamma
I don't think there is light enough for that
There is light enough for him
for he plays quite independently of the hoops; don't you, Mr Crosbie
There's very pretty croquet light, I should say
and then it is so stupid going to bed
Yes, it is stupid going to bed
Your arrows fall terribly astray there, Miss Dale, for I never touch a cue; you should talk to your cousin about billiards
Is Bernard a great billiard player
Well, I do play now and again; about as well as Crosbie does croquet. Come, Crosbie, we'll go home and smoke a cigar
Yes
and then, you know, we stupid people can go to bed. Mamma, I wish you had a little smoking-room here for us. I don't like being considered stupid
Lily, my love
it seems to me that you are very hard upon Mr Crosbie
She has been going on like that all the evening
I'm sure we are very good friends
Oh, very
Now, Bell, you're jealous; you know you are
She shan't be called jealous; shall she, mamma
I don't think she deserves it
Now, you don't mean to say that you think I meant anything
As if I cared a buttercup about Mr Crosbie
Or I either, Lily
Of course you don't. But I do care for him very much, mamma. He is such a duck of an Apollo. I shall always call him Apollo; Phoebus Apollo! And when I draw his picture he shall have a mallet in his hand instead of a bow. Upon my word I am very much obliged to Bernard for bringing him down here; and I do wish he was not going away the day after tomorrow
The day after tomorrow
It was hardly worth coming for two days
No, it wasn't -- disturbing us all in our quiet little ways just for such a spell as that -- not giving one time even to count his rays
But he says he shall perhaps come again
There is that hope for us
Uncle Christopher asked him to come down when he gets his long leave of absence. This is only a short sort of leave. He is better off than poor Johnny Eames. Johnny Eames only has a month, but Mr Crosbie has two months just whenever he likes it; and seems to be pretty much his own master all the year round besides
And Uncle Christopher asked him to come down for the shooting in September
And though he didn't say he'd come I think he meant it
There is that hope for us, mamma
Then you'll have to draw Apollo with a gun instead of a mallet
That is the worst of it, mamma. We shan't see much of him or of Bernard either. They wouldn't let us go out into the woods as beaters, would they
You'd make too much noise to be of any use
Should I? I thought the beaters had to shout at the birds. I should get very tired of shouting at birds, so I think I'll stay at home and look after my clothes
I hope he will come, because Uncle Christopher seems to like him so much
I wonder whether a certain gentleman at Guestwick will like his coming
Lily, you let your tongue run too fast
I didn't mean anything, Bell
It doesn't signify
Only Lily says things without thinking
Lily, you promised me
that you would not say anything more to me about Dr Crofts
I know I did, and I was very wrong. I beg your pardon, Bell; and I won't do it again -- not if I can help it
Not help it, Lily
But I'm sure I don't know why I shouldn't speak of him -- only not in the way of laughing at you. Of all the men I ever saw in my life I like him best. And only that I love you better than I love myself I could find it in my heart to grudge you his
Lily, what did you promise just now
Well; after to-night. And I don't know why you should turn against him
I have never turned against him or for him
There's no turning about him. He'd give his left hand if you'd only smile on him. Or his right either -- and that's what I should like to see; so now you've heard it
You know you are talking nonsense
So I should like to see it. And so would mamma too, I'm sure; though I never heard her say a word about him. In my mind he's the finest fellow I ever saw. What's Mr Apollo Crosbie to him? And now, as it makes you unhappy, I'll never say another word about him
Good-bye, John
You know how sorry we are to lose you. But it's a great thing for you to be going up to London
Well, yes. I suppose it is. I'd sooner remain here, though
What! stay here, doing nothing! I am sure you would not
Of course, I should like to do something. I mean
You mean that it is painful to part with old friends; and I'm sure that we all feel that at parting with you. But you'll have a holiday sometimes, and then we shall see you
Yes; of course, I shall see you then. I think, Lily, I shall care more about seeing you than anybody
Oh, no, John. There'll be your own mother and sister
Yes; there'll be mother and Mary, of course. But I will come, over here the very first day -- that is, if you'll care to see me
We shall care to see you very much. You know that. And -- dear John, I do hope you'll be happy
Do you
And I'm sure I hope you'll always be happy. Good-bye, Lily
I say, Caudle, I wonder whether a fellow could get into a club
Get into a club? Fisher in our room belongs to a club
That's only a chess-club. I mean a regular club
One of the swell ones at the West End
I shouldn't want it to be particularly swell. If a man isn't a swell, I don't see what he gets by going among those who are. But it is so uncommon slow at Mother Roper's
And about going to church
I don't suppose I can look after that, ma'am
Young gentlemen choose mostly their own churches
But they do go
They who have been brought up steady do so, mostly
He has been brought up steady, Mrs Roper. He has, indeed
And you won't give him a latch-key
Well, they always do ask for it
But he won't insist, if you tell him that I had rather that he shouldn't have one
I thought you didn't seem to find it so dull since Amelia came home
Amelia! What's Amelia to me? I have told you everything, Cradell, and yet you can talk to me about Amelia Roper
Come now, Johnny
You were as sweet to her the other night as though there were no such person as L. D. in existence
She is a fine girl -- a deuced fine girl
By heavens! Johnny, what a figure that woman has
Yes; she stands well on her pins
I should think she did. If I understand anything of form
that woman is nearly perfect. What a torso she has
It seems to me that her nose isn't quite straight
I care more for figure than face
But Mrs Lupex has fine eyes -- very fine eyes
And knows how to use them, too
Why shouldn't she? And then she has lovely hair
Only she never brushes it in the morning
Do you know, I like that kind of deshabille
Too much care always betrays itself
But a woman should be tidy
What a word to apply to such a creature as Mrs Lupex! I call her a splendid woman. And how well she was got up last night. Do you know, I've an idea that Lupex treats her very badly. She said a word or two to me yesterday that
I rather fancy it's quite the other way
How the other way
That Lupex has quite as much as he likes of Mrs L. The sound of her voice sometimes makes me shake in my shoes, I know
I like a woman with spirit
Oh, so do I. But one may have too much of a good thing. Amelia did tell me -- only you won't mention it
Of course, I won't
She told me that Lupex sometimes was obliged to run away from her. He goes down to the theatre, and remains there two or three days at a time. Then she goes to fetch him, and there is no end of a row in the house
The fact is, he drinks
By George, I pity a woman whose husband drinks -- and such a woman as that, too
Take care, old fellow, or you'll find yourself in a scrape
I know what I'm at. Lord bless you, I'm not going to lose my head because I see a fine woman
Or your heart either
Oh, heart! There's nothing of that kind of thing about me. I regard a woman as a picture or a statue. I dare say I shall marry some day, because men do; but I've no idea of losing myself about a woman
I'd lose myself ten times over for
L. D
That I would. And yet I know I shall never have her. I'm a jolly, laughing sort of fellow; and yet, do you know, Caudle, when that girl marries, it will be all up with me. It will, indeed
Do you mean that you'll cut your throat
No; I shan't do that. I shan't do anything of that sort; and yet it will be all up with me
You are going down there in October -- why don't you ask her to have you
With ninety pounds a year
With ninety pounds a year, and twenty allowed me by my mother
She could wait, I suppose. I should ask her, and no mistake. If one is to love a girl, it's no good one going on in that way
It isn't much good, certainly
I wish, Amelia, you wouldn't have so much to say to that young man
Laws, mother
So I do. If you go on like that, you'll put me out of both my lodgers
Go on like what, mother? If a gentleman speaks to me, I suppose I'm to answer him? I know how to behave myself, I believe
Those fellows in the big room want me to take May
They must think I'm uncommon green
It's too bad
A man shouldn't be asked to take his leave in May. I never did, and what's more, I never will. I'd go to the Board first
I shall go down by the mail-train tomorrow night
Yes
I know how great is your haste to get down to that fascinating spot. I could not expect that you would lose one single hour in hurrying away from Burton Crescent
After twelve months up here in London one is glad to get away to one's own friends
Your own friends, Mr Eames! What sort of friends? Do you suppose I don't know
Well, no. I don't think you do know
L. D
L. S. D
That's my love; pounds, shillings, and pence; and a very coy mistress she is
Nonsense, sir. Don't talk to me in that way. As if I didn't know where your heart was. What right had you to speak to me if you had an L. D. down in the country
Ha, ha, ha
Yes, sir; it's a laughing matter to you, I dare say. It is very easy for a man to laugh under such circumstances -- that is to say, if he is perfectly heartless -- if he's got a stone inside his bosom instead of flesh and blood. Some men are made of stone, I know, and are troubled with no feelings
What is it you want me to say? You pretend to know all about it, and it wouldn't be civil in me to contradict you
What is it I want? You know very well what I want; or rather, I don't want anything. What is it to me? It is nothing to me about L. D. You can go down to Allington and do what you like for me. Only I hate such ways
What ways, Amelia
What ways! Now, look here, Johnny: I'm not going to make a fool of myself for any man. When I came home here three months ago -- and I wish I never had
but when I did come home, I didn't think there was a man in all London could make me care for him -- that I didn't. And now you're going away, without so much as hardly saying a word to me
What am I to say, when you keep on scolding me all the time
Scolding you !-- and me too! No, Johnny, I ain't scolding you, and don't mean to. If it's to be all over between us, say the word, and I'll take myself away out of the house before you come back again. I've had no secrets from you. I can go back to my business in Manchester, though it is beneath my birth, and not what I've been used to. If L. D. is more to you than I am, I won't stand in your way. Only say the word
Say the word
and all between you and me shall be over. I have got your promise, but I'd scorn to take advantage. If Amelia hasn't got your heart, she'd despise to take your hand. Only I must have an answer
Amelia
Well, sir
You know I love you
And about L. D
If you choose to believe all the nonsense that Cradell puts into your head, I can't help it. If you like to make yourself jealous about two letters, it isn't my fault
And you love me
Of course I love you
You'll be true to me
Oh, yes; that's a matter of course
I declare, Mr Eames
I'm glad you've come. Here's Mr Cradell does say such queer things
Queer things
Now, Miss Spruce, I appeal to you -- Have I said any queer things
If you did, sir, I didn't notice them
I noticed them, then
An unmarried man like Mr Cradell has no business to know whether a married lady wears a cap or her own hair -- has he, Mr Eames
I don't think I ever know
I dare say not, sir
We all know where your attention is riveted. If you were to wear a cap, my dear, somebody would see the difference very soon -- wouldn't they, Miss Spruce
I dare say they would
If I could look as nice in a cap as you do, Mrs Lupex, I'd wear one tomorrow
Does Lupex like caps
If I wore a plumed helmet on my head, it's my belief he wouldn't know the difference; nor yet if I had got no head at all. That's what comes of getting married. It you'll take my advice, Miss Roper, you'll stay as you are; even though somebody should break his heart about it. Wouldn't you, Miss Spruce
Oh, as for me, I'm an old woman, you know
I don't see what any woman gets by marrying
But a man gains everything. He don't know how to live, unless he's got a woman to help him
But is love to go for nothing
Oh, love! I don't believe in love. I suppose I thought I loved once, but what did it come to after all? Now, there's Mr Eames -- we all know he's in love
It comes natural to me, Mrs Lupex. I was born so
And there's Miss Roper -- one never ought to speak free about a lady, but perhaps she's in love too
Speak for yourself, Mrs Lupex
There's no harm in saying that, is there? I'm sure, if you ain't, you're very hard-hearted; for, if ever there was a true lover, I believe you've got one of your own. My !-- if there's not Lupex's step on the stair! What can bring him home at this hour? If he's been drinking, he'll come home as cross as anything
By George, Johnny, you'll get yourself entangled with that girl
One always has to go through that sort of thing
Yes; but those who go through too much of it never get out again. Where would you be if she got a written promise of marriage from you
Where should I be
Among the breaches of promise, I suppose
Either that, or else among the victims of matrimony. My belief of you is, that if you gave such a promise, you'd carry it out
Perhaps I should
but I don't know. It's a matter of doubt what a man ought to do in such a case
But there's been nothing of that kind yet
Oh dear, no
If I was you, Johnny, I'd keep away from her. It's very good fun, of course, that sort of thing; but it is so uncommon dangerous! Where would you be now with such a girl as that for your wife
I say, Caudle, old boy, you'll find yourself in trouble with that Mrs Lupex, if you don't take care of yourself
But I shall take care of myself. There's nothing so safe as a little nonsense with a married woman. Of course, it means nothing, you know, between her and me
I don't suppose it does mean anything. But she's always talking about Lupex being jealous; and if he was to cut up rough, you wouldn't find it pleasant
She is only in the garden
She will be here directly
She has walked across to the Great House with Mr Crosbie
but she is not going to remain. She will be so glad to see you, John! We all expected you today
Did you
I'm sure Lily won't object to my telling such a dear friend as you what has happened
She is engaged to be married to Mr Crosbie
We are all very well pleased at the match
Nothing can be nicer than Mr Crosbie
We have often talked about you, and he will be so happy to know you
He won't know much about me
There is Lily coming across the lawn
Then I'd better go
Don't say anything about it; pray don't
But he is such an Apollo, you know
He is a gentleman; I can see that
Oh, yes; a man can't be an Apollo unless he's a gentleman
And he's very clever
I suppose he is clever
I wish he were not coming
I think you are wrong, mamma
But if she should become fond of him, and then
Lily will never become really fond of any man till he shall have given her proper reason. And if he admires her, why should they not come together
But she is so young, Bell
She is nineteen; and if they were engaged, perhaps, they might wait for a year or so. But it's no good talking in that way, mamma. If you were to tell Lily not to give him encouragement, she would not speak to him
I should not think of interfering
No, mamma; and therefore it must take its course. For myself, I like Mr Crosbie very much
So do I, my dear
And so does my uncle. I wouldn't have Lily take a lover of my uncle's choosing
I should hope not
But it must be considered a good thing if she happens to choose one of his liking
It would be close enough in London
He has more than my brother had when he married
If he will only make her as happy as your brother made me -- while it lasted
You know, I suppose, that my uncle wishes me to marry the elder one
I have guessed as much
And I suppose the match will come off. She's a pretty girl, and as good as gold
Yes, she is
I don't pretend to be very much in love with her. It's not my way, you know. But, some of these days, I shall ask her to have me, and I suppose it'll all go right. The governor has distinctly promised to allow me eight hundred a year off the estate, and to take us in for three months every year if we wish it. I told him simply that I couldn't do it for less, and he agreed with me
You and he get on very well together
Oh, yes! There's never been any fal-lal between us about love, and duty, and all that. I think we understand each other, and that's everything. He knows the comfort of standing well with the heir, and I know the comfort of standing well with the owner
What will he do for the younger sister
Ah! that's more than I can tell you. If I were you, I should ask him. The governor is a plain man, and likes plain business
I suppose you couldn't ask him? "No; I don't think I could. It is my belief that he will not let her go by any means empty-handed
Well, I should suppose not
But remember this, Crosbie -- I can say nothing to you on which you are to depend. Lily, also, is as good as gold; and, as you seem to be fond of her, I should ask the governor, if I were you, in so many words, what he intends to do. Of course, it's against my interest, for every shilling he gives Lily will ultimately come out of my pocket. But I'm not the man to care about that, as you know
I have nothing to say against it
And I have your permission to consider myself as engaged to her
If you have hers and her mother's. Of course you are aware that I have no authority over her
She would not marry without your sanction
She is very good to think so much of her uncle
And what would be the use
If he should refuse to give her a shilling I could not go back from it now
You may be sure of this
I shall love you with all my heart and all my strength
Oh! mamma, I must tell you something
Is it about Mr Crosbie
Yes, mamma
Dear Lily
I am so glad
I knew how it was going to be from the very first
Did I not, mamma
I'm sure I didn't
I never thought such a thing was possible
But we did -- mamma and I
Did you
Bell told me that it was to be so
But I could hardly bring myself at first to think that he was good enough for my darling
Oh, mamma! you must not say that. You must think that he is good enough for anything
I will think that he is very good
Who could be better? And then, when you remember all that he is to give up for my sake
And what can I do for him in return? What have I got to give him
As soon as we got to the end of the shrubbery there were Uncle Christopher and Bernard close to us; so I told Adolphus he might go on by himself
And who do you think has been here
Has anybody been here since I went? Whoever it was didn't stay very long
Poor Johnny Eames
Dear Johnny
We told him you were out
He will be here again before long, no doubt
And he knows
Yes; I thought you would not object to my telling him
No, mamma; of course not. And he has gone back to Guestwick
I suppose I shall marry her, and there'll be an end of me
If, indeed, he would swear to her that his love was honest and manly, then, indeed, she might even yet -- see him through the chink of the doorway with the purport of telling him that he was forgiven
My only object in life is to call you my own for ever
By George! how well she looked with her hair all loose
I shall care more about seeing you than anybody
Horrid old thing
Stop
I won't go on. Uncle is always teasing me with some old-fashioned wit. And I've had quite enough of you today, sir. Mind you come over tomorrow before you go to your shooting
Bernard
I wish this matter could be settled between you and Bell
Is there any hurry about it, sir? "Yes, there is hurry; or, rather, as I hate hurry in all things, I would say that there is ground for despatch. Mind, I do not wish to drive you. If you do not like your cousin, say so
But I do like her; only I have a sort of feeling that these things grow best by degrees. I quite share your dislike to being in a hurry
But time enough has been taken now. You see, Bernard, I am going to make a great sacrifice of income on your behalf
I am sure I am very grateful
I have no children, and have therefore always regarded you as my own. But there is no reason why my brother Philip's daughter should not be as dear to me as my brother Orlando's son
Of course not, sir; or, rather, his two daughters
You may leave that matter to me, Bernard. The younger girl is going to marry this friend of yours, and as he has a sufficient income to support a wife, I think that my sister-in-law has good reason to be satisfied by the match. She will not be expected to give up any part of her small income, as she must have done had Lily married a poor man
I suppose she could hardly give up much
People must be guided by circumstances. I am not disposed to put myself in the place of a parent to them both. There is no reason why I should, and I will not encourage false hopes. If I knew that this matter between you and Bell was arranged, I should have reason to feel satisfied with what I was doing
I have promised you eight hundred a year with your wife
But if you do not at once accept it, or let me feel that it will be accepted, it may be well for me to change my mind -- especially as this other niece is about to be married. If I am to give you so large a fortune with Bell, I need do nothing for Lily. But if you do not choose to take Bell and the fortune, why then
I have no desire to postpone the matter any longer
I will propose to Bell at once, if you wish it
If your mind be quite made up, I cannot see why you should delay it
I will have it out of the old fellow this evening
How nice he looks in them
I suppose we shall come back this way
Well, not exactly
We shall make our way round by Darvell's farm, and so back by Gruddock's. Are the girls going to dine up at the Great House today
Then, as you won't have to dress, you might as well meet us at Gruddock's gate, at the back of the farmyard. We'll be there exactly at half-past five
That is to say, we're to be there at half-past five, and you'll keep us waiting for three-quarters of an hour
I say, Dale
I say, Dale -- your uncle has never said a word to me yet as to Lily's fortune
As to Lily's fortune! The question is whether Lily has got a fortune
He can hardly expect that I am to take her without some thing. Your uncle is a man of the world and he knows
Whether or no my uncle is a man of the world, I will not say; but you are, Crosbie, whether he is or not. Lily, as you have always known, has nothing of her own
I am not talking of Lily's own. I'm speaking of her uncle. I have been straightforward with him; and when I became attached to your cousin I declared what I meant at once
You should have asked him the question, if you thought there was any room for such a question
Thought there was any room! Upon my word, you are a cool fellow
Now look here, Crosbie; you may say what you like about my uncle, but you must not say a word against Lily
Who is going to say a word against her? You can little understand me if you don't know that the protection of her name against evil words is already more my care than it is yours. I regard Lily as my own
I only meant to say, that any discontent you may feel as to her money, or want of money, you must refer to my uncle, and not to the family at the Small House
I am quite well aware of that
And though you are quite at liberty to say what you like to me about my uncle, I cannot say that I can see that he has been to blame
He should have told me what her prospects are
But if she have got no prospects! It cannot be an uncle's duty to tell everybody that he does not mean to give his niece a fortune. In point of fact, why should you suppose that he has such an intention
Do you know that he has not? because you once led me to believe that he would give his niece money
Now, Crosbie, it is necessary that you and I should understand each other in this matter
But did you not? "Listen to me for a moment. I never said a word to you about my uncle's intentions in any way, until after you had become fully engaged to Lily with the knowledge of us all. Then, when my belief on the subject could make no possible difference in your conduct, I told you that I thought my uncle would do something for her. I told you so because I did think so -- and as your friend, I should have told you what I thought in any matter that concerned your interest
And now you have changed your opinion
I have changed my opinion; but very probably without sufficient ground
That's hard upon me
It may be hard to bear disappointment; but you cannot say that anybody has ill-used you
And you don't think he will give her anything
Nothing that will be of much moment to you
And I'm not to say that that's hard? I think it confounded hard. Of course I must put off my marriage
Why do you not speak to my uncle? "I shall do so. To tell the truth, I think it would have come better from him; but that is a matter of opinion. I shall tell him very plainly what I think about it; and if he is angry, why, I suppose I must leave his house; that will be all
Look here, Crosbie; do not begin your conversation with the purpose of angering him. He is not a bad-hearted man, but is very obstinate
I can be quite as obstinate as he
I declare I don't know what's the matter with you
We have been over fifteen miles of ground, and
I never knew anything so lackadaisical as you gentlemen from London. Been over fifteen miles of ground! Why, Uncle Christopher would think nothing of that
Uncle Christopher is made of sterner stuff than we are
They used to be born so sixty or seventy years ago
Uncle
these men have shot nothing, and you cannot conceive how unhappy they are in consequence. It's all the fault of the naughty partridges
There are plenty of partridges if they knew how to get them
The dogs are uncommonly wild
They are not wild with me
nor yet with Dingles
The fact is, you young men, nowadays, expect to have dogs trained to do all the work for you. It's too much labour for you to walk up to your game. You'll be late for dinner, girls, if you don't look sharp
We're not coming up this evening, sir
And why not
We're going to stay with mamma
And why will not your mother come with you? I'll be whipped if I can understand it. One would have thought that under the present circumstances she would have been glad to see you all as much together as possible
We're together quite enough
And as for mamma, I suppose she thinks
You shouldn't provoke him, Lily
And he shouldn't say those things about mamma. It seems to me that you don't mind what he says
Oh, Lily
No more you do. He makes me so angry that I cannot hold my tongue. He thinks that because all the place is his, he is to say just what he likes. Why should mamma go up there to please his humours
You may be sure that mamma will do what she thinks best. She is stronger-minded than Uncle Christopher, and does not want any one to help her. But, Lily, you shouldn't speak as though I were careless about mamma. You didn't mean that, I know
Of course I didn't
by odds, the nicest girl that he had ever seen
It is my own doing
I have trained myself for other things -- very foolishly. Of course I must suffer -- suffer damnably. But she shall never know it. Dear, sweet, innocent, pretty little thing
But I will let him know what I think about it
It's all very well for Dale to say that I have been treated fairly. It isn't fair for a man to put forward his niece under false pretences. Of course I thought that he intended to provide for her
I didn't behave well to him
I never do. I forget how much he is giving up for me; and then, when anything annoys him, I make it worse instead of comforting him
I know I shall teach him to hate me
That would be very sad
but I don't see it
If you were engaged to a man you would be much better to him. You would not say so much, but what you did say would be all affection. I am always making horrid little speeches, for which I should like to cut out my tongue afterwards
Whatever sort of speeches they are, I think that he likes them
Does he? I'm not all so sure of that, Bell. Of course I don't expect that he is to scold me -- not yet, that is. But I know by his eye when he is pleased and when he is displeased
I find that your bag was not so bad after all
and I hope that your appetite is at least as good as your bag
Squire
Squire, of course I am thinking a good deal at the present moment as to my intended marriage
That's natural enough
Yes, by George! sir, a man doesn't make a change like that without finding that he has got something to think of
I suppose not
I never was in the way of getting married myself, but I can easily understand that
I've been the luckiest fellow in the world in finding such a girl as your niece
She is exactly everything that a girl ought to be
She is a good girl
Yes; I think she is
But it seems to me
that something ought to be said as to my means of supporting her properly
Of supporting her
with all those comforts to which she has been accustomed
She has never been used to expense
Her mother, as you doubtless know, is not a rich woman
But living here, Lily has had great advantages -- a horse to ride, and all that sort of thing
I don't suppose she expects a horse in the park
I hope not
I believe she has had the use of one of the ponies here sometimes, but I hope that has not made her extravagant in her ideas. I did not think that there was anything of that nonsense about either of them
Nor is there -- as far as I know
Nothing of the sort
But the long and the short of it is this, sir
Am I to expect any accession of income with my wife
I have not spoken to my sister-in-law on the subject
but I should fear that she cannot do much
As a matter of course, I would not take a shilling from her
Then that settles it
Of course I was not alluding to Mrs Dale's income; I would not, on any account, disturb her arrangements. But I wished to learn, sir, whether you intend to do anything for your niece
In the way of giving her a fortune? Nothing at all. I intend to do nothing at all
Then I suppose we understand each other -- at last
I should have thought that we might have understood each other at first
Did I ever make you any promise, or give you any hint that I intended to provide for my niece? Have I ever held out to you any such hope? I don't know what you mean by that word 'at last'-- unless it be to give offence
I meant the truth, sir -- I meant this -- that seeing the manner in which your nieces lived with you, I thought it probable that you would treat them both as though they were your daughters. Now I find out my mistake -- that is all
You have been mistaken -- and without a shadow of excuse for your mistake
Others have been mistaken with me
What others
I do not want to make any mischief
If anybody connected with my family has presumed to tell you that I intended to do more for my niece Lilian than I have already done, such person has not only been false, but ungrateful. I have given to no one any authority to make any promise on behalf of my niece
No such promise has been made. It was only a suggestion
No such suggestion should have been made
No one has had a right to make such a suggestion. No one has been placed by me in a position to make such a suggestion to you without manifest impropriety. I will ask no further questions about it; but it is quite as well that you should understand at once that I do not consider it to be my duty to give my niece Lilian a fortune on her marriage. I trust that your offer to her was not made under any such delusion
No, sir; it was not
Then I suppose that no great harm has been done. I am sorry if false hopes have been given to you; but I am sure you will acknowledge that they were not given to you by me
I think you have misunderstood me, sir. My hopes were never very high; but I thought it right to ascertain your intentions
Now you know them. I trust, for the girl's sake, that it will make no difference to her. I can hardly believe that she has been to blame in the matter
As far as I myself am concerned
I do not like long engagements. But I am quite aware that in this matter I have no right to interfere, unless, indeed
I suppose it will be well to fix some day; eh, Crosbie
I will discuss that matter with Mrs Dale
If you and she understand each other
That will be sufficient. Shall we go into the drawing-room now, or out upon the lawn
Dancing on the lawn, if we can get anybody to stand up. Of course you must come, whether you like it or not. And Bernard also. Do your possible to talk my uncle into coming
When the ice is once broken he won't mind it
You see we've only got four young gentlemen and one ungrown
and they will look so stupid standing up all properly in a room, as though we had a regular party
Thank you for the compliment
So you will; and we girls will look more stupid still. But out on the lawn it won't look stupid at all. Two or three might stand up on the lawn, and it would be jolly enough
I don't quite see it
Yes, I think I see it
The unadaptability of the lawn for the purpose of a ball
Nobody is thinking of a ball
I'm defending you, and yet you won't let me speak. The unadaptability of the lawn for the purpose of a ball will conceal the insufficiency of four men and a boy as a supply of male dancers. But, Lily, who is the ungrown gentleman? Is it your old friend Johnny Eames
Oh, no; I did not mean Mr Eames. He is coming, but I did not mean him. Dick Boyce, Mr Boyce's son, is only sixteen. He is the ungrown gentleman
And who is the fourth adult
Dr Crofts, from Guestwick. I do hope you will like him, Adolphus. We think he is the very perfection of a man
Then of course I shall hate him; and be very jealous, too
Bell
And they ought to be happy now, oughtn't they? Dear Lily! I hope he will be good to her. Do you know, Bernard, though he is your friend, I am very, very anxious about it. It is such a vast trust to put in a man when we do not quite know him
Yes, it is; but they'll do very well together. Lily will be happy enough
And he
I suppose he'll be happy, too. He'll feel himself a little straightened as to income at first, but that will all come round
If he is not, she will be wretched
They will do very well. Lily must be prepared to make the money go as far as she can, that's all
Lily won't feel the want of money. It is not that. But if he lets her know that she has made him a poor man, then she will be unhappy. Is he extravagant, Bernard
No, I should say not
I do not know that we could have acted otherwise than we have done, and yet I fear that we have been rash. If he makes her unhappy, Bernard, I shall never forgive you
You must not quarrel with me, Bell, whatever may happen. I cannot afford to quarrel with you
Of course I was not in earnest as to that
You and I must never quarrel, Bell; at least, I hope not. I could bear to quarrel with any one rather than with you
I hope we shall never quarrel
Bell
you and I have always been dear friends
Yes; always
Why should we not be something more than friends
I don't quite understand, Bernard
Shall we be more than cousins? Shall we be man and wife
Oh, Bernard! you have surprised me
I hope I have not pained you, Bell. I have been long thinking of this, but I am well aware that my own manner, even to you, has not been that of a lover. It is not in me to smile and say soft things, as Crosbie can. But I do not love you the less on that account. I have looked about for a wife, and I have thought that if I could gain you I should be very fortunate
You are very good to me -- more than good. Of course I know that. But, oh, Bernard I did not expect this a bit
But you will answer me, Bell! Or if you would like time to think, or to speak to my aunt, perhaps you will answer me tomorrow
I think I ought to answer you, now
Not if it be a refusal, Bell. Think well of it before you do that. I should have told you that, our uncle wishes this match, and that he will remove any difficulty there might be about money
I do not care for money
But, as you were saying about Lily, one has to be prudent. Now, in our marriage, everything of that kind would be well arranged. My uncle has promised me that he would at once allow us
Stop, Bernard. You must not be led to suppose that any offer made by my uncle would help to purchase -- Indeed, there can be no need for us to talk about money
I wished to let you know the facts of the case, exactly as they are. And as to our uncle, I cannot but think that you would be glad, in such a matter, to have him on your side
Yes, I should be glad to have him on my side; that is, if I were going -- But my uncle's wishes could not influence my decision. The fact is, Bernard
Well, dearest, what is the fact? "I have always regarded you rather as a brother than as anything else
But that regard may be changed
No; I think not. Bernard, I will go further and speak on at once. It cannot be changed. I know myself well enough to say that with certainty. It cannot be changed
You mean that you cannot love me
Not as you would have me do, I do love you very dearly -- very dearly, indeed. I would go to you in any trouble, exactly as I would go to a brother
And must that be all, Bell
Is not that all the sweetest love that can be felt? But you must not think me ungrateful, or proud. I know well that you are -- are proposing to do for me much more than I deserve. Any girl might be proud of such an offer. But, dear Bernard
Bell, before you give me a final answer, sleep upon this and talk it over with your mother. Of course you were unprepared, and I cannot expect that you should promise me so much without a moment's consideration
I was unprepared, and therefore I have not answered you as I should have done. But as it has gone so far, I cannot let you leave me in uncertainty. It is not necessary that I should keep you waiting. In this matter I do know my own mind. Dear Bernard, indeed it cannot be as you have proposed
I do not wish to press you unfairly, Bell; but may I ask if any other preference
There is no other preference
My uncle will be much grieved at this
If that be all
I do not think that we need either of us trouble ourselves. He can have no right to dispose of our hearts
I understand the taunt, Bell
Dear Bernard, there was no taunt. I intended none
It will soon pass away
I shall be sorry -- very sorry
I also shall be sorry. I am now speaking of him. He has set his heart upon it; and as he has but few wishes, few desires, so is he the more constant in those which he expresses. When he knows this, I fear that we shall find him very stern
Then he will be unjust
No; he will not be unjust. He is always a just man. But he will be unhappy, and will, I fear, make others unhappy. Dear Bell, may not this thing remain for a while unsettled? You will not find that I take advantage of your goodness. I will not intrude it on you again -- say for a fortnight -- or till Crosbie shall be gone
No, no, no
Why are you so eager in your noes? There can be no danger in such delay. I will not press you -- and you can let my uncle think that you have at least taken time for consideration
There are things as to which one is bound to answer at once. If I doubted myself, I would let you persuade me. But I do not doubt myself, and I should be wrong to keep you in suspense. Dear, dearest Bernard, it cannot be; and as it cannot he, you, as my brother, would bid me say so clearly. It cannot be
Did you ever see anything so sweet and affectionate and romantic
And all the while we have been so practical and worldly. Do you know, Bell, that Adolphus seems to think we can't very well keep pigs in London. It makes me so unhappy
It does seem a pity
for Lily seems to know all about pigs
Of course I do. I haven't lived in the country all my life for nothing. Oh, Bernard, I should so like to see you rolled down into the bottom of the ha-ha. Just remain there, and we'll do it between us
You forget, my dear fellow, that I'm not in love as you are
But I thought you were
No; not at all as you are. You are an accepted lover, and will be allowed to do anything -- whip the creams, and tune the piano, if you know how. I'm only a half sort of lover, meditating a mariage de convenance to oblige an uncle, and by no means required by the terms of my agreement to undergo a very rigid amount of drill. Your position is just the reverse
Dale wouldn't come
I suppose he's keeping himself up for the dance on the lawn
I hope he will be here in the evening
Ten minutes before the time named; and, of course, you must have understood that I meant thirty minutes after it
Yes; we did come early
because Mary thought she would like to go up into the girls' room and just settle her, hair, you know
So she shall
And we knew we shouldn't be in the way. Johnny can go out into the garden if there's anything left to be done
He shan't be banished unless he likes it
If he finds us women too much for his unaided strength
I have to congratulate you, Lily, and I hope with all my heart that you will be happy
Thank you, John
I hope I shall see so much of you in London. It will be so nice to have an old Guestwick friend near me
my dear
A London man, is he? Well, well. I wish he lived in the country. Eight hundred a year, my dear
That sounds nice down here, because we are all so poor. But I suppose eight hundred a year isn't very much up in London
The squire's coming, I suppose, isn't he
Yes, he'll be here by-and-by; unless he changes his mind, you know. He doesn't stand on ceremony with me
He change his mind! When did you ever know Christopher Dale change his mind
He is pretty constant, Mrs Hearn
If he promised to give a man a penny, he'd give it. But if he promised to take away a pound, he'd take it, though it cost him years to get it. He's going to turn me out of my cottage, he says
Nonsense, Mrs Hearn
Jolliffe came and told me
that if I didn't like it as it was, I might leave it, and that the squire could get double the rent for it. Now all I asked was that he should do a little painting in the kitchen; and the wood is all as black as his hat
I thought it was understood you were to paint inside
How can I do it, my dear, with a hundred and forty pounds for everything? I must live, you know! And he that has workmen about him every day of the year! And was that a message to send to me, who have lived in the parish for fifty years? Here he is
But where are the -- the -- the young men
They'll be across in two or three hours' time
They both dressed for dinner, and, as I thought, made themselves very smart; but for such a grand occasion as this they thought a second dressing necessary. How do you do, Mrs Hearn? I hope you are quite well. No rheumatism left, eh
You needn't make me jump so, Mr Dale. I'm pretty well now, thank ye. I did have a twinge in the spring -- that cottage is so badly built for draughts! I wonder you can live in it,' my sister said to me the last time she was over. I suppose I should be better off over with her at Hamersham, only one doesn't like to move, you know, after living fifty years in one parish
You mustn't think of going away from us
She's a sly creature, is Mrs Boyce
We are waiting upon your honours' kind grace, and feel how much we owe to you for favouring our poor abode
I will refuse you nothing
but do not make it too soon
I must speak to her tomorrow
Oh, Adolphus, I am so glad he has come
Do try to like him
It is very unfortunate
but I never do like Paragons
But you must like this Paragon. Not that he is a Paragon at all, for he smokes and hunts, and does all manner of wicked things
And I must introduce you to Mr Crosbie
I am so glad
to congratulate you on your sister's engagement
Yes
We knew that you would be glad to hear of her happiness
Indeed, I am glad; and thoroughly hope that she may be happy. You all like him, do you not
We like him very much
And I am told that he is well off. He is a very fortunate man -- very fortunate -- very fortunate
Of course we think so
Not, however, because he is rich
No; not because he is rich. But because, being worthy of such happiness, his circumstances should enable him to marry, and to enjoy it
Yes, exactly
That is just it
We love him
not because he is rich enough to marry without anxious thought, but because he dares to marry although he is not rich
How is it that he does it
This is very nice
I know what you mean
But I shall stay here. There's no touch of romance about any of you. Look at the moon there at the back of the steeple. I don't mean to go in all night
Don't you like the moon
Like the moon?-- well; I fancy I like the sun better. I don't quite believe in moonlight. I think it does best to talk about when one wants to be sentimental
Ah; that is just what I fear. That is what I say to Bell when I tell her that her romance will fade as the roses do. And then I shall have to learn that prose is more serviceable than poetry, and that the mind is better than the heart, and -- and that money is better than love. It's all coming, I know; and yet I do like the moonlight
And the poetry -- and the love
Yes. The poetry much, and the love more. To be loved by you is sweeter even than any of my dreams -- is better than all the poetry I have read
Dearest Lily
It is the meaning of the moonlight, and the essence of the poetry
I did not know then why I liked such things, but now I know. It was because I longed to be loved
And to love
Oh, yes. I would be nothing without that. But that, you know, is your delight -- or should be. The other is mine. And yet it is a delight to love you; to know that I may love you
You mean that this is the realisation of your romance
Yes; but it most not be the end of it, Adolphus. You most like the soft twilight, and the long evenings when we shall be alone; and you most read to me the books I love, and you most not teach me to think that the world is hard, and dry, and cruel -- not yet. I tell Bell so very often; but you must not say so to me
It shall not be dry and cruel, if I can prevent it
You understand what I mean, dearest. I will not think it dry and cruel, even though sorrow should come upon us, if you -- I think you know what I mean
If I am good to you
I am not afraid of that -- I am not the least afraid of that. You do not think that I could ever distrust you? But you must not be ashamed to look at the moonlight, and to read poetry, and to
To talk nonsense, you mean
I suppose I'm talking nonsense now
No; I like you best now
And why didn't you like me then? Did I say anything to offend you
I like you best now, because
Because
Oh, my love
My love! my love
But what will they say to us for staying away
And I ought to be making the people dance, you know. Come along, and do make yourself nice. Do waltz with Mary Eames -- pray, do. If you don't, I won't speak to you all night
Oh! thank you -- it's very nice. I shall be able to go on again directly
Adolphus
I can't dance with you, though I said I would. John Eames has asked me, and I haven't stood up with him before. You understand, and you'll be a good boy, won't you
I don't at all know yet when we are to be married
No; I dare say not
But not this year, I suppose. Indeed, I should say, of course not
In the spring, perhaps
The reason I mention it is this, that we should be so very glad if you could be here. We all love you so much, and I should so like to have you here on that day
But the next greatest blessing which I can offer you shall be yours -- you shall see me married to somebody else
Will you not oblige me so far as that
I would do anything to oblige you
almost anything
But not that
No; not that. I could not do that
A man may undergo what he likes for himself
but he has no right to make a woman undergo poverty
Perhaps not
That which is no suffering for a man -- which no man should think of for himself -- will make a hell on earth for a woman
I suppose it would
said she
Go down to him
unless you wish to see me murdered at your feet
said I to Jemima
Dearest John
Ha, ha, ha
Upon my word, Caudle, I think you are
Mr Cradell, your hand
There has been a misunderstanding between us; let it be forgotten
Mr Cradell, if I know him
is too much the gentleman to bear any anger when a gentleman has offered him his hand
Oh, I'm sure
I'm quite -- indeed, I'm delighted to find there's nothing wrong after all
You're not a married man, Mr Cradell
and therefore you cannot understand the workings of a husband's heart. There have been moments when my regard for that woman has been too much for me
Now, Lupex, don't
And I do not hesitate to say that my regard for her was too much for me on that night when I sent for you to the dining-room
I'm glad it's all put right now
Very glad, indeed
And, therefore, we need not say any more about it
One word
Mr Cradell, I greatly rejoice that you did not obey my summons on that night. Had you done so -- I confess it now -- had you done so, blood would have been the consequence. I was mistaken. I acknowledge my mistake -- but blood would have been the consequence
Dear, dear, dear
Miss Spruce
there are moments when the heart becomes too strong for a man
I dare say
Now, Lupex, that will do
I'm sure you're very kind
And Mrs Lupex will join us. There's a delightful little snuggery upstairs at the Pot and Poker; and if Miss Spruce will condescend to
Oh, I'm an old woman, sir
No -- no -- no
I deny that. Come, Cradell, what do you say -- just a snug little dinner for four, you know
And now, Lupex, suppose you get off to bed
You've had a very trying day, you know
And you, ducky
I shall come presently. Now don't be making a fool of yourself, but get yourself off. Come
I rather think I shall remain where I am, and have a glass of something hot
Lupex, do you want to aggravate me again
I shall do something desperate -- I am sure; I know I shall
Oh, Mr Cradell
how am I ever to look you in the face again after the events of these last memorable days
As for that
what does it signify -- among friends like us, you know
But that it should be known at your office, as of course it is, because of the gentleman that went down to him at the theatre -- I don't think I shall ever survive it
You see I was obliged to send somebody, Mrs Lupex
I'm not finding fault, Mr Cradell. I know very well that in my melancholy position I have no right to find fault, and I don't pretend to understand gentlemen's feelings towards each other. But to have had my name mentioned up with yours in that way is -- Oh! Mr Cradell, I don't know how I'm ever to look you in the face again
Handsome is as handsome does
Exactly so, Miss Spruce
and that's my only comfort at the present moment. Mr Cradell is a gentleman who would scorn to take advantage -- I'm quite sure of that
That I wouldn't, I'm sure
That is to say
Oh, indeed; Mrs Lupex
And Mr Cradell
And Miss Spruce, my dear
I'm only an old woman
Oh, yes; I see Miss Spruce
I was not hinting anything, I can assure you
I should think not, my dear
Only I didn't know that you two were quite -- That is, when last I heard about it, I fancied -- But if the quarrel's made up, there's nobody more rejoiced than I am
The quarrel is made up
If Mrs Lupex is satisfied, I'm sure I am
Mr Lupex is satisfied
Mrs Lupex, I'm not expecting to get married -- not particularly, by any means
Oh, I thought you were. And let me tell you, that when you've got a husband of your own, you won't find it so easy to keep everything straight. That's the worst of these lodgings if there is any little thing, everybody knows it. Don't they, Miss Spruce
Lodgings is so much more comfortable than house-keeping
Everybody knows it; does he
Why, if a gentleman will come home at night tipsy and threaten to murder another gentleman in the same house; and if a lady
Well, miss
and what of the lady
And what of the lady
A lady, if she is a lady
will know how to behave herself
And you're going to teach me, are you, Miss Roper? I'm sure I'm ever so much obliged to you. It's Manchester manners, I suppose, that you prefer
I prefer honest manners, Mrs Lupex, and decent manners, and manners that won't shock a whole house full of people and I don't care whether they come from Manchester or London
Milliner's manners, I suppose? "I don't care whether they are milliner's manners or theatrical, Mrs Lupex, as long as they're not downright bad manners -- as yours are, Mrs Lupex. And now you've got it. What are you going on for in this way with that young man, till you'll drive your husband into a madhouse with drink and jealousy
Miss Roper! Miss Roper
now really
Don't mind her. Mr Cradell
she's not worthy for you to speak to. And as to that poor fellow Eames, if you've any friendship for him, you'll let him know what she is. My dear, how's Mr Juniper, of Grogram's house, at Salford? I know all about you, and so shall John Eames, too -- poor unfortunate fool of a fellow! Telling me of drink and jealousy, indeed
Yes, telling you! And now you've mentioned Mr Juniper's name, Mr Eames, and Mr Cradell too, may know the whole of it. There's been nothing about Mr Juniper that I'm ashamed of
It would be difficult to make you ashamed of anything, I believe
But let me tell you this, Mrs Lupex, you're not going to destroy the respectability of this house by your goings on
It was a bad day for me when I let Lupex bring me into it
Then pay your bill, and walk out of it
I'll undertake to say there shan't be any notice required. Only you pay mother what you owe, and you're free to go at once
I shall go just when I please, and not one hour before. Who are you, you gipsy, to speak to me in this way
And as for going, go you shall, if we have to call in the police to make you
Amelia, what's all this
Ask Mrs Lupex
And Mrs Lupex will answer
Your daughter has come in here, and attacked me -- in such language -- before Mr Cradell too
Why doesn't she pay what she owes, and leave the house
Hold your tongue
What she owes is no affair of yours
But it's an affair of mine, when I'm insulted by such a creature as that
Creature
I'd like to know which is most like a creature! But I'll tell you, what it is, Amelia Roper
What a deuce of a mess Eames will make of it if he marries that girl
I think I shall leave you on Wednesday, sir
Leave us on Wednesday
Nothing wrong, is there
Oh, dear, no! But everything must come to an end some day; and as I must make one or two short visits before I get back to town, I might as well go on Wednesday. Indeed, I have made it as late as I possibly could
Where do you go from here
Well, as it happens, only into the next county -- to Courcy Castle
It is mine
But it is well for me that they should enjoy it. She is my brother's widow, and she is welcome -- very welcome
On Wednesday
Well, yes. I have written to Lady de Courcy and said Wednesday. It wouldn't do for me exactly to drop everybody, and perhaps
Oh, no! And, Adolphus, you don't suppose I begrudge your going. Only it does seem so sudden; does it not
You see, I've been here over six weeks
Yes; you've been very good. When I think of it, what a six weeks it has been! I wonder whether the difference seems to you as great as it does to me. I've left off being a grub, and begun to be a butterfly
But you mustn't be a butterfly when you're married, Lily
No; not in that sense. But I meant that my real position in the world -- that for which I would fain hope that I was created -- opened to me only when I knew you and knew that you loved me. But mamma is calling us, and we must go through to church. Going on Wednesday! There are only three days more, then
Yes, just three days
And when are we to see you again
Ah, who is to say that yet? We must ask the Chairman of Committees when he will let me go again
T' squire'd like to be squire, and parson, and clerk, and everything; so a would
It's easy listening to him
It don't give one much trouble following him into his arguments
Only do not let it be too soon
I might as well do it at once
It is too late now
will you walk in the fields after lunch
He can eat lunch at his own house
And I've often seen him take a glass of sherry
Only three days
I'll come down to them for a day at Christmas, though it be only for a day
Yes, Lily; there are only three days left now. But I wonder whether -- I suppose you'll all be at home at Christmas
At home at Christmas?-- of course we shall be at home. You don't mean to say you'll come to us
Well; I think I will, if you'll have me
Oh! that will make such a difference. Let me see. That will only be three months. And to have you here on Christmas Day! I would sooner have you then than on any other day in the year
It will only be for one day, Lily. I shall come to dinner on Christmas Eve, and must go away the day after
But you will come direct to our house
If you can spare me a room
Of course we can. So we could now. Only when you came, you know
When I came, I was the squire's friend and your cousin's rather than yours. But that's all changed now
Yes; you're my friend now -- mine specially. I'm to be now and always your own special, dearest friend -- eh, Adolphus
Lily
I want to say a few words to you about -- business
Of course I'll listen. And, Adolphus, pray don't be afraid about me. What I mean is, don't think that I can't bear cares and troubles. I can bear anything as long as you love me. I say that because I'm afraid I seemed to complain about your going. I didn't mean to
I never thought you complained, dearest. Nothing can be better than you are at all times and in every year. A man would be very hard to please if you didn't please him
If I can only please you
You do please me in everything. Dear Lily, I think I found an angel when I found you. But now about this business Perhaps I'd better tell you everything
Oh, yes, tell me everything
But then you mustn't misunderstand me. And if I talk about money, you mustn't suppose that it has anything to do with my love for you
I wish for your sake that I wasn't such a little pauper
What I mean to say is this, that if I seem to be anxious about money, you must not suppose that that anxiety hears any reference whatever to my affection for you. I should love you just the same, and look forward just as much to my happiness in marrying you, whether you were rich or poor. You understand that
how anxious I have been that our marriage should not be delayed. To me, of course, it must be everything now to call you my own as soon as possible
Of course I must be very anxious, but I find it not so easy as I expected
You know what I said, Adolphus. I said that I thought we had better wait. I'm sure mamma thinks so. And if we can only see you now and then
That will he a matter of course. But, as I was saying -- Let me see. Yes -- all that waiting will be intolerable to me. It is such a bore for a man when he has made up his mind on such a matter as marriage, not to make the change at once, especially when he is going to take to himself such a little angel as you are
You mean, dearest
that you cannot afford to marry at once
Yes; that is it. I had expected that I should be able, but
It won't make me unhappy, Adolphus
Will it not
As regards myself, I own that I cannot bear the delay with so much indifference
Nay, my love; but you should not misunderstand me
I suppose I ought to protest, according to the common rules, that I would rather wait. Young ladies are expected to say so. If you were pressing me to marry at once, I should say so, no doubt. But now, as it is, I will be more honest. I have only one wish in the world, and that is, to be your wife -- to be able to share everything with you. The sooner we can be together the better it will be -- at any rate, for me. There; will that satisfy you
My own, own Lily
Yes, your own Lily, You shall have no cause to doubt me, dearest. But I do not expect that I am to have everything exactly as I want it. I say again, that I shall not be unhappy in waiting. How can I be unhappy while I feel certain of your love? I was disappointed just now when you said that you were going so soon; and I am afraid I showed it. But those little things are more unendurable than the big things
Yes; that's very true
But there are three more days, and I mean to enjoy them so much! And then you will write to me: and you will come at Christmas. And next year, when you have your holiday, you will come down to us again; will you not? "You may be quite sure of that
And so the time will go by till it suits you to come and take me. I shall not be unhappy
I, at any rate, shall be impatient
Ah, men always are impatient. It is one of their privileges, I suppose. And I don't think that a man ever has the same positive and complete satisfaction in knowing that he is loved, which a girl feels. You are my bird that I have shot with my own gun; and the assurance of my success is sufficient for my happiness
You have bowled me over, and know that I can't get up again
I don't know about can't. I would let you up quick enough, if you wished it
I hope I shall, Lady Julia
We all try, my dear, but many of us fail to try with sufficient energy of purpose. It is only by doing our duty that we can hope to be happy, whether in single life or in married
Miss Dale means to be a dragon of perfection in the performance of hers
A dragon
No; I hope Miss Lily Dale will never become a dragon
Bernard
I heard from your mother yesterday. I am afraid she does not seem to be very strong
She isn't ill
She never is ill; but then she is never well
Your aunt
A very long time
You, Dale, at any rate, can hardly remember it
But I can remember it
I can remember when my sister Fanny was recognised as the beauty of the country. It is a dangerous gift, that of beauty
Very dangerous
By-the-by, Lady Julia
I think I know some very dear friends of yours
Very dear friends is a very strong word. I have not many very dear friends
I mean the Gazebees. I have heard Mortimer Gazebee and Lady Amelia speak of you
I am delighted to think that I shall have the pleasure of seeing you there
Indeed
I am going to Courcy on Wednesday. That, I fear, will be too early to allow of my being of any service to your ladyship
What a horrid old woman she is
I beg your pardon, Bernard; for, of course, she is your aunt
Yes; she is my aunt; and though I am not very fond of her, I deny that she is a horrid old woman. She never murdered anybody, or robbed anybody, or stole away any other woman's lover
I should think not
She says her prayers earnestly, I have no doubt
and gives away money to the poor, and would sacrifice tomorrow any desire of her own to her brother's wish. I acknowledge that she is ugly, and pompous, and that, being a woman, she ought not to have such a long black beard on her upper lip
I don't care a bit about her beard
And why did she talk about beauty being dangerous? said Bell
I didn't know at all what she meant
and I don't know now
I think she's a charming woman, and I shall be especially civil to her at Lady de Courcy's
It was a great match for her
And dear Mrs Dale? I hope she was not fatigued when we kept her up the other night so unconscionably late
Don't let's stay here very long
No, not very long
But when you come to see my friends you mustn't be in a hurry, Mr Crosbie
He had his turn with Lady Julia
and we must have ours now
At any rate, Mrs Eames won't tell us to do our duty and to beware of being too beautiful
I tell you what it is, Molly
if there was any way of doing it, I'd fight that man
What; and make Lily wretched
She'll never be happy with him. I'm sure she won't. I don't want to do her any harm, but yet I'd like to fight that man -- if I only knew how to manage it
Don't see him too often
for fear he should make an ass of himself
Thank you, no
But a bit of cake
We really must go now
because of the horses
You will come over before you go back to London, John
Yes, I'll come over again -- before I go. Good-bye
Good-bye, John
Good-bye, Eames
I'll manage to have a fight with him in some way
I must put an end to all that
You must not snub my friends, sir
I never snub anybody
that is unless they have absolutely deserved snubbing
And have I deserved it? Because I seem to have got it
Nonsense, Lily. I never snubbed you yet, and I don't think it likely that I shall begin. But you ought not to accuse me of not being civil to your friends. In the first place I am as civil to them as my nature will allow me to be. And, in the second place
Well; in the second place --? "I am not quite sure that you are very wise to encourage that young man's friendship just at present
That means, I suppose, that I am very wrong to do so
No, dearest, it does not mean that. If I meant so I would tell you so honestly. I mean just what I say. There can, I suppose, be no doubt that he has filled himself with some kind of romantic attachment for you -- a foolish kind of love which I don't suppose he ever expected to gratify, but the idea of which lends a sort of grace to his life. When he meets some young woman fit to be his wife he will forget all about it, but till then he will go about fancying himself a despairing lover. And then such a young man as John Eames is very apt to talk of his fancies
I don't believe for a moment that he would mention my name to any one
But, Lily, perhaps I may know more of young men than you do
Yes, of course you do
And I can assure you that they are generally too well inclined to make free with the names of girls whom they think that they like. You must not be surprised if I am unwilling that any man should make free with your name
But, Adolphus
Well, dearest? "You would not wish me to be unkind to so very old a friend as John Eames? I have known him all my life, and we have all of us had a very great regard for the whole family. His father was my uncle's most particular friend
I think, Lily, you must understand what I mean. I don't want you to quarrel with any of them, or to be what you call unkind. But you need not give special and pressing invitations to this young man to come and see you before he goes back to London, and then to come and see you directly you get to London. You tell me that he had some kind of romantic idea of being in love with you -- of being in despair because you are not in love with him. It's all great nonsense, no doubt, but it seems to me that under such circumstances you'd better -- just leave him alone
I have asked him now, and he must come
But do not press him to come any more
Certainly not, after what you have said, Adolphus. If he comes over to Allington, he will see me in mamma's house, to which he has always been made welcome by her. Of course I understand perfectly
You understand what, Lily
What is it you understand, Lily
Do not press me to go on, Adolphus. As far as I can, I will do all that you want me to do
You meant to say that when you find yourself an inmate of my house, as a matter of course you could not ask your own friends to come and see you. Was that gracious
Whatever I may have meant to say, I did not say that. Nor in truth did I mean it. Pray don't go on about it now. These are to be our last days, you know, and we shouldn't waste them by talking of things that are unpleasant. After all poor Johnny Eames is nothing to me; nothing, nothing. How can any one be anything to me when I think of you
Bell
Any hope as to what, Bernard? "I hardly know whether a man is bound to take a single answer on such a subject. But this I know, that if a man's heart is concerned, he is not very willing to do so
When that answer has been given honestly and truly
Oh, no doubt. I don't at all suppose that you were dishonest or false when you refused to allow me to speak to you
But, Bernard, I did not refuse to allow you to speak to me
Something very like it. But, however, I have no doubt you were true enough. But, Bell, why should it be so? If you were in love with any one else I could understand it
I am not in love with any one else
Exactly. And there are so many reasons why you, and I should join our fortunes together
It cannot be a question of fortune, Bernard
Do listen to me. Do let me speak, at any rate. I presume I may at least suppose that you do not dislike me
Oh, no
And though you might not be willing to accept any man's hand merely on a question of fortune, surely the fact that our marriage would be in every way suitable as regards money should not set you against it. Of my own love for you I will not speak further, as I do not doubt that you believe what I say; but should you not question your own feelings very closely before you determine to oppose the wishes of all those who are nearest to you
Do you mean mamma, Bernard
Not her especially, though I cannot but think she would like a marriage that would keep all the family together, and would give you an equal claim to the property to that which I have
That would not have a feather's-weight with mamma
Have you asked her
No, I have mentioned the matter to no one
Then you cannot know. And as to my uncle, I have the means of knowing that it is the great desire of his life. I must say that I think some consideration for him should induce you to pause before you give a final answer, even though no consideration for me should have any weight with you
I would do more for you than for him -- much more
Then do this for me, Allow me to think that I have not yet had an answer to my proposal; give me to this day month, to Christmas; till any time that you like to name, so that I may think that it is not yet settled, and may tell Uncle Christopher that such is the case
Bernard, it would he useless
It would at any rate show him that you are willing to think of it
But I am not willing to think of it -- not in that way. I do know my own mind thoroughly, and I should be very wrong if I were to deceive you
And you wish me to give that as your only answer to my uncle
To tell the truth, Bernard, I do not much care what you may say to my uncle in this matter. He can have no right to interfere in the disposal of my hand, and therefore I need not regard his wishes on the subject. I will explain to you in one word what my feelings are about it. I would accept no man in opposition to mamma's wishes; but not even for her could I accept any man in opposition to my own. But as concerns my uncle, I do not feel myself called on to consult him in any way on such a matter
And yet he is the head of our family
I don't care anything about the family.-- not in that way
And he has been very generous to you all
That I deny. He has not been generous to mamma. He is very hard and ungenerous to mamma. He lets her have that house because he is anxious that the Dales should seem to be respectable before the world; and she lives in it, because she thinks it better for us that she should do so. If I had my way, she should leave it tomorrow -- or, at any rate, as soon as Lily is married. I would much sooner go into Guestwick, and live as the Eames do
I think you are ungrateful, Bell
No; I am not ungrateful. And as to consulting; Bernard -- I should be much more inclined to consult you than him about my marriage. If you would let me look on you altogether as a brother, I should think little of promising to marry no one whom you did not approve
Ah, Bell
I wish you could understand how I love you
And do I not love you? Have I not offered to be to you in all respects as a sister
That is nothing. Such an offer to me now is simply laughing at me. Bell, I tell you what -- I will not give you up. The fact is, you do not know me yet -- not know me as you must know any man before you choose him for your husband. You and Lily are not alike in this. You are cautious, doubtful of yourself, and perhaps, also, somewhat doubtful of others. My heart is set upon this, and I shall still try to succeed
Ah, Bernard, do not say that! Believe me, when I tell you that it can never be
No; I will not believe you. I will not allow myself to be made utterly wretched. I tell you fairly that I will not believe you. I may surely hope if I choose to hope. No, Bell, I will never give you up -- unless, indeed, I should see you become another man's wife
I must go somewhere
and would hope anxiously that her welfare in life might be complete
Young man
Yes, my lord
I knew your father, and a very good man he was; only he shouldn't have taken to farming. People think they can farm without learning the trade, but that's a very great mistake. I can farm, because I've learned it. Don't you think you'd better get up
I'm afraid I'm trespassing, my lord
You're welcome; you're very welcome. If you'll come up to the house, I'll give you some luncheon
Come along
Yes, my lord
And a very good thing, too -- a very good thing, indeed. But why were you asleep in the wood? It isn't warm, you know. I call it rather cold
I was taking a walk, and thinking of something, I sat down
Leave of absence, I suppose
Yes, my lord
Have you got into trouble? You look as though you were in trouble. Your poor father used to be in trouble
I haven't taken to farming
Ha, ha, ha -- quite right. No, don't take to farming. Unless you learn it, you know, you might just as well take to shoemaking -- just the same. You haven't got into trouble, then; eh? "No, my lord, not particularly
Not particularly! I knew very well that young men do get into trouble when they get up to London. If you want any -- any advice, or that sort of thing, you may come to me; for I knew your father well. Do you like shooting? "I never did shoot anything
Well perhaps better not. To tell the truth, I'm not very fond of young men who take to shooting without having anything to shoot at. By-the-by, now I think of it, I'll send your mother some game
And look here, cold pheasant for breakfast is the best thing I know of. Pheasants at dinner are rubbish -- mere rubbish. Here we are at the house. Will you come in and have a glass of wine
If you won't come in, Good-bye
Good-evening, my lord
And remember this; it is the deuce of a thing to have rheumatism in your loins. I wouldn't go to sleep under a tree, if I were you -- not in October. But you're always welcome to go anywhere about the place
Thank you, my lord
And if you should take to shooting -- but I dare say you won't; and if you come to trouble, and want advice, or that sort of thing, write to me. I knew your father well
Pheasants for dinner are rubbish -- mere rubbish
I wish we had some of that sort of rubbish
So you will, tomorrow"; and then he described to her his interview. "The earl was, at any rate, quite right about lying upon the ground. I wonder you can be so foolish. And he is right about your poor father too. But you have got to change your boots; and we shall be ready for dinner almost immediately
It will be best that I should be honest with her
A cheap and nasty menage would be my aversion
It is that which I want to avoid -- chiefly for your sake
I suppose we shall have to wait two years. And that's a deuce of a bore -- a terrible bore
Are you angry with me
Oh, no! Adolphus; how can I be angry with you
He shall not at any rate think that I am unkind to him -- and it will not matter now
Well, dearest
did the beards wag merry in the Great Hall this evening
Not specially merry. And I think it was my fault, for I have a headache. Mamma, I believe I will go at once to bed
Nothing, mamma. But we had such a long ride; and then Adolphus is going, and of course we have so much to say. Tomorrow will be the last day, for I shall only just see him on Wednesday morning; and as I want to be well, if possible, I'll go to bed
Don't talk to me, Bell
I want to have a talk with you, Adolphus, before you go in to mamma; so come with me into the field
All right
And Bernard can finish his cigar on the lawn. Mamma and Bell will join him there
All right
Adolphus
I have something to say to you -- something to which you must listen very carefully
This is the last day on which I could say it
and I am very glad that I have not let the last day go by without saying it. I should not have known how to put it in a letter
What is it, Lily
And I do not know that I can say it properly; but I hope that you will not be hard upon me. Adolphus, if you wish that all this between us should be over, I will consent
Lily
I mean what I say. If you wish it, I will consent; and when I have said so, proposing it myself, you may be quite sure that I shall never blame you, if you take me at my word
Are you tired of me, Lily
No. I shall never be tired of you -- never weary with loving you. I did not wish to say so now; but I will answer your question boldly. Tired of you! I fancy that a girl can never grow tired of her lover. But I would sooner die in the struggle than be the cause of your ruin. It would be better -- in every way better
I have said nothing of being ruined
But listen to me. I should not die if you left me -- not be utterly broken-hearted. Nothing on earth can I ever love as I have loved you. But I have a God and a Saviour that will be enough for me. I can turn to them with content, if it be well that you should leave me. I have gone to them, and
It is true
But, Lily, why is all this said to me here today
Because it is my duty to say it. I understand all your position now, though it is only now. It never flashed on me till yesterday. When you proposed to me, you thought that I -- that I had some fortune
Never mind that now, Lily
But you did. I see it all now. I ought perhaps to have told you that it was not so. There has been the mistake, and we are both sufferers. But we need not make the suffering deeper than needs be. My love, you are free -- from this moment. And even my heart shall not blame you for accepting your freedom
And are you afraid of poverty
I am afraid of poverty for you. You and I have lived differently. Luxuries, of which I know nothing, have been your daily comforts. I tell you I can bear to part with you, but I cannot bear to become the source of your unhappiness. Yes; I will bear it; and none shall dare in my hearing to speak against you. I have brought you here to say the word; nay, more than that -- to advise you to say it
Speak to me, Adolphus, and say that it shall be so
Want of love on my part? But you should not ask me that
Until you tell me that there is such a want, I will agree to no parting. "Then he took her hand and put it within his arm. "No, Lily; whatever may be our cares and troubles, we are bound together -- indissolubly
Are we
Much too firmly for any such divorce as that. No, Lily, I claim the right to tell you all my troubles; but I shall not let you go
But, Adolphus
Adolphus
has got nothing more to say on that subject. He exercises the right which he believes to be his own, and chooses to retain the prize which he has won
Oh, my love
I do not know how to say it again. It is of you that I am thinking -- of you, of you
I know you are; but you have misunderstood me a little; that's all
Have I? Then listen to me again, once more, my heart's own darling, my love, my husband, my lord! If I cannot be to you at once like Ruth, and never cease from coming after you, my thoughts to you shall be like those of Ruth -- if aught but death part thee and me, may God do so to me and more also
Lily
Yes, your own, to take when you please, and leave untaken while you please; and as much your own in one way as in the other
A set of shirts for me, for instance
I could do that, at any rate
It may come to that yet, some of these days
I pray God that it may
I pray God that it may. To be of use to you -- to work for you -- to do something for you that may have in it some sober, earnest purport of usefulness -- that is what I want above all things. I want to be with you at once that I may be of service to you. Would that you and I were alone together, that I might do everything for you. I sometimes think that a very poor man's wife is the happiest, because she does do everything
You shall do everything very soon
You know that you'll be such a swell when you get to that countess's house that you'll forget all about Allington
Of course I shall
And the paper you write upon will be all over coronets -- that is, if ever you do write. Perhaps you will to Bernard some day, just to show that you are staying at a castle
You certainly don't deserve that he should write to you
I don't expect it for a moment -- not till he gets back to London and finds that he has nothing else to do at his office. But I should so like to see how you and Lady Julia get on together. It was quite clear that she regarded you as an ogre; didn't she, Bell
So many people are ogres to Lady Julia
I believe Lady Julia to be a very good woman
and I won't have her abused
Particularly before poor Bernard, who is her pet nephew
I dare say Adolphus will become a pet too when she has been a week with him at Courcy Castle. Do try and cut Bernard out
Lily is so very young
that she may well wait for a year or so
For seven years
I shall hardly be six-and-twenty then, which is not at all too old
God bless you, Adolphus
I hope you understand how much we are trusting to you
I do -- I do
I said I would be in to pour out your tea
I have only one minute to speak to you
and I have been thinking all night of what I had to say. It is so easy to think, and so hard to speak
My darling, I understand it all
But you must understand this, that I will never distrust you. I will never ask you to give me up again, or say that I could be happy without you. I could not live without you; that is, without the knowledge that you are mine. But I will never be impatient, never. Pray, pray believe me! Nothing shall make me distrust you
Dearest Lily, I will endeavour to give you no cause
I know you will not; but I specially wanted to tell you that. And you will write -- very soon? "Directly I get there
And as often as you can. But I won't bother you; only your letters will make me so happy. I shall be so proud when they come to me. I shall be afraid of writing too much to you, for fear I should tire you
You will never do that
Shall I not? But you must write first, you know. If you could only understand how I shall live upon your letters! And now good-bye. There are the wheels. God bless you, my own, my own
I should like to punch his head
And I wouldn't think nothing of doing it; no more I wouldn't
And by God's help so I will
He has gone, mamma
And now we'll go back to our work-a-day ways; it has been all Sunday for me for the last six weeks
I hope that, upon the whole, you feel contented with your visit
Contented? Of course I do
That is easily said; and civility to me, perhaps, demands as much. But I know that you have, to some extent, been disappointed
Well; yes. I have been disappointed as regards money. It is of no use denying it
I should not mention it now, only that I want to know that you exonerate me
I have never blamed you -- neither you, nor anybody else; unless, indeed, it has been myself
You mean that you regret what you've done
No; I don't mean that. I am too devotedly attached to that dear girl whom we have just left to feel any regret that I have engaged myself to her. But I do think that had I managed better with your uncle things might have been different
I doubt it. Indeed I know that it is not so; and can assure you that you need not make yourself unhappy on that score. I had thought, as you well know, that he would have done something for Lily-something, though not as much as he always intended to do for Bell. But you may be sure of this; that he had made up his mind as to what he would do. Nothing that you or I could have said would have changed him
Well; we won't say anything more about it
Let me know as soon as you get to town
Oh, of course. I'll write to you before that
He'll give us trouble, in some way; and I'm sorry that I brought him down
I did not mean to fall in for all this
And who is the old gentleman who chanted the Litany
That's our precentor, sir, Mr Harding. You must have heard of Mr Harding
Well, sir; he's pretty well known too, tho' he is so shy like. He's father-in-law to our dean, sir; and father-in-law to Archdeacon Grantly also
His daughters have all gone into the profession, then
Why, yes; but Miss Eleanor -- for I remember her before she was married at all -- when they lived at the hospital
At the hospital
Hiram's hospital, sir. He was warden, you know. You should go and see the hospital, sir, if you never was there before. Well, Miss Eleanor -- that was his youngest -- she married Mr Bold as her first. But now she's the dean's lady
Oh; the dean's lady, is she? "Yes, indeed. And what do you think, sir? Mr Harding might have been dean himself if he'd liked. They did offer it to him
And he refused it? "Indeed he did, sir
Nolo decanari. I never heard of that before. What made him so modest? "Just that, sir; because he is modest. He's past his seventy now -- ever so much; but he's just as modest as a young girl. A deal more modest than some of them. To see him and his granddaughter together
And who is his granddaughter
Why Lady Dumbello, as will be the Marchioness of Hartletop
I know Lady Dumbello
Oh, do you, sir
Perhaps you're going to be one of the party at Courcy Castle
Well, I believe I am
You'll find her ladyship there before you. She lunched with her aunt at the deanery as she went through, yesterday; finding it too much trouble to go out to her father's, at Plumstead. Her father is the archdeacon, you know. They do say -- but her ladyship is your friend
No friend at all; only a very slight acquaintance. She's quite as much above my line as she is above her father's
Well, she is above them all. They say she would hardly as much as speak to the old gentleman
What, her father? "No, Mr Harding; he that chanted the Litany just now. There he is, sir, coming out of the deanery
He is of that sort that they make the angels of
But they can't make many if they want them all as good as he is. I'm much obliged to you, sir
So that's Lady Dumbello's grandfather
They may make an angel of the old gentleman
but they'll never succeed in that way with the granddaughter
I was going to venture in
No, no; by no means
Pray come in. I cannot say that I am just at home here. I do not live here -- not now. But I know the ways of the place well, and can make you welcome. That's the warden's house. Perhaps we won't go in so early in the day, as the lady has a very large family. An excellent lady, and a dear friend of mine -- as is her husband
And he is warden, you say
Yes, warden of the hospital. You see the house, sir. Very pretty, isn't it? Very pretty. To my idea it's the prettiest built house I ever saw
I won't go quite so far as that
Very nice indeed
I had that turf laid down myself. There were borders there when I first came, with hollyhocks, and those sort of things. The turf was an improvement
There's no doubt of that, I should say
The turf was an improvement, certainly. And I planted those shrubs, too. There isn't such a Portugal laurel as that in the county
Were you warden here, sir
Yes, sir. I was warden here for twelve years. Dear, dear, dear! If they had put any gentleman here that was not on friendly terms with me it would have made me very unhappy -- very. But, as it is, I go in and out just as I like; almost as much as I did before they -- But they didn't turn me out. There were reasons which made it best that I should resign
And you live at the deanery now, Mr Harding
Yes; I live at the deanery now. But I am not dean, you know. My son-in-law, Dr Arabin, is the dean. I have another daughter married in the neighbourhood, and can truly say that my lines have fallen to me in pleasant places
I didn't like going, you know; I thought it would break my heart. But I could not stay when they said such things as that -- I couldn't stay. And, what is more, I should have been wrong to stay. I see it all now. But when I went out under that arch, Mr Crosbie, leaning on my daughter's arm, I thought that my heart would have broken
It was all for the best
especially as the happiness has not been denied to me of making myself at home at the old place. I would take you into the house, which is very comfortable -- very, only it is not always convenient early in the day, when there's a large family
Where, as I understand, I shall meet a granddaughter of yours
Yes, yes; she is my grandchild. She and I have got into different walks of life now, so that I don't see much of her. They tell me that she does her duty well in that sphere of life to which it has pleased God to call her
That depends
on what the duties of a viscountess may be supposed to be
She never says anything to any one. She won't speak ten words a whole night through
I don't think she has an idea in her head
Let me tell you that she must be a very clever woman
No fool could do as she does. Remember, she's only a parson's daughter; and as for beauty
I don't admire her for one
I don't want to run away with her, if you mean that
but she is handsome, no doubt. I wonder whether Dumbello likes it
Engaged to one of the Dales, is he
Has she got any money
Not a shilling, I should think
Pretty, I suppose
Why, yes; she is pretty -- and a nice girl. I don't know whether her mother and uncle were very wise in encouraging Mr Crosbie. I don't hear that he has anything special to recommend him -- in the way of money I mean
I dare say it will come to nothing
I really don't think we care very much about it, Lady Julia
The Dales are related to you, I think
Not at all
The lady whom Mr Crosbie proposes to marry is in no way connected with us. Her cousin, who is the heir to the Allington property, is my nephew by his mother
Well, old fellow
Heard you were here
Come, we know better than that. The women have been talking about it for the last three days. I had her name quite pat yesterday, but I've forgot it now. Hasn't got a tanner; has she
You seem to know a great deal more about it than I do
It is that old woman from Guestwick who told us, then. The women will be at you at once, you'll find. If there's nothing in it, it's what I call a d ---- shame. Why should they always pull a fellow to pieces in that way? They were going to marry me the other day
Were they indeed, though? "To Harriet Twistleton. You know Harriet Twistleton? An uncommon fine girl, you know. But I wasn't going to be caught like that. I'm very fond of Harriet -- in my way, you know; but they don't catch an old bird like me with chaff
I condole with Miss Twistleton for what she has lost
I don't know about condoling. But upon my word that getting married is a very slow thing. Have you seen George's wife
She's here now, you know. I wouldn't have taken her, not if she'd had ten times thirty thousand pounds. By Jove, no. But he likes it well enough. Would you believe it now?-- he cares for nothing on earth except money. You never saw such a fellow. But I'll tell you what, his nose will be out of joint yet, for Porlock is going to marry. I heard it from Colepepper, who almost lives with Porlock. As soon as Porlock heard that she was in the family way he immediately made up his mind to cut him out
That was a great sign of brotherly love
I knew he'd do it
and so I told George before he got himself spliced. But he would go on. If he'd remained as he was for four or five years longer there would have been no danger -- for Porlock, you know, is leading the deuce of a life, I shouldn't wonder if he didn't reform now, and take to singing psalms or something of that sort
There's no knowing what a man may come to in this world
By George, no. But I'll tell you what, they'll find no change in me. If I marry it will not be with the intention of giving up life. I say, old fellow, have you got a cigar here
What, to smoke up here, do you mean
Yes; why not? we're ever so far from the women
Not whilst I am occupier of this room. Besides, it's time to dress for dinner
Is it? So it is, by George! But I mean to have a smoke first, I can tell you. So it's all a lie about your being engaged; eh
As far as I know, it is
What a fool I was to come here, or indeed to go anywhere, after settling myself as I have done
How do, my lord
Not know him, indeed
So you have Lady Dumbello here
Oh, yes; the dear creature
It was so good of her to come, you know
She positively refused the Duchess of St Bungay
I hope you perceive how good we've been to you in getting you to meet her. People have actually asked to come
I am grateful; but, in truth, my gratitude has more to do with Courcy Castle and its habitual inmates, than with Lady Dumbello. Is he here? "Oh, yes! he's in the room somewhere. There he is, standing up by Lady Clandidlem. He always stands in that way before dinner. In the evening he sits down much after the same fashion
And her ladyship is not down
She is generally last
And yet she has always three women to dress her
But when finished, what a success it is
Indeed it is
How wonderfully well that woman has educated her
Ugh
it's a bad arrangement that makes two old people like you and me be sent out together to help each other
Speak for yourself
I, at any rate, can get about without any assistance
It's well for you
So you're going to be married, too
It's the best thing a fellow can do
that is, if he has been careful to look to the main chance -- if he hasn't been caught napping, you know. It doesn't do for a man to go hanging on by nothing till he finds himself an old man
You've feathered your own nest, at any rate
Yes; I've got something in the scramble, and I mean to keep it. Where will John be when the governor goes off the hooks? Porlock wouldn't give him a bit of bread and cheese and a glass of beer to save his life -- that is to say, not if he wanted it
I'm told your elder brother is going to be married
You've heard that from John. He's spreading that about everywhere to take a rise out of me. I don't believe a word of it. Porlock never was a marrying man -- and, what's more, from all I hear, I don't think he'll live long
Mr Crosbie
I want you to tell me something about Miss Lilian Dale
About Miss Lilian Dale
Is she very pretty? "Yes she certainly is pretty
She is very attractive
but I don't think she's perfect
And what are her faults? "That question is hardly fair, is it? Suppose any one were to ask me what were your faults, do you think I should answer the question? "I am quite sure you would, and make a very long list of them, too. But as to Miss Dale, you ought to think her perfect. If a gentleman were engaged to me, I should expect him to swear before all the world that I was the very pink of perfection
But supposing the gentleman were not engaged to you? "That would be a different thing
I am not engaged to you
Such happiness and such honour are, I fear, very far beyond my reach. But, nevertheless, I am prepared to testify as to your perfection anywhere
And what would Miss Dale say
Allow me to assure you that such opinions as I may choose to express of my friends will be my own opinions, and not depend on those of any one else
And you think, then, that you are not bound to be enslaved as yet? How many more months of such freedom are you to enjoy
I would beg from you a great favour
What is the favour, Mr Crosbie? "I am quite in earnest. Will you be good enough, kind enough, enough my friend, not to connect my name again with that of Miss Dale while I am here? 

"Has there been a quarrel? 

"No; there has been no quarrel. I cannot explain to you now why I make this request; but to you I will explain it before I go
Explain it to me
Oh, yes, certainly
I have always regarded you as a friend
And therefore I venture to make the request! The subject is not one on which I can speak openly, without regret, at the present moment. But to you, at least, I promise that I will explain it all before I leave Courcy
I don't believe he is engaged a bit
Nonsense, my dear. Lady Julia wouldn't speak of it in that certain way if she didn't know. Of course he doesn't wish to have it talked about
If ever he has been engaged to her, he has broken it off again
that little girl
He had been too good to the poor girl to take her at her word
Bell
I wish you were going to be married too
Thank'ye, dear
Perhaps I shall some day
Ah; but I'm not joking. It seems such a serious thing. And I can't expect you to talk to me about it now as you would if you were in the same position yourself. Do you think I shall make him happy
Yes, I do, certainly
Happier than he would be with any one else that he might meet? I dare not think that. I think I could give him up tomorrow, if I could see any one that would suit him better
Six weeks at Allington without a move! Why, Mr Crosbie, you must have felt yourself to be growing there
So I did -- like an ancient tree. Indeed, I was so rooted that I could hardly get away
Was the house full of people all the time
There was nobody there but Bernard Dale, Lady Julia's nephew
Quite a case of Damon and Pythias. Fancy your going down to the shades of Allington to enjoy the uninterrupted pleasures of friendship for six weeks
Friendship and the partridges
There was nothing else, then
Indeed there was. There was a widow with two very nice daughters, living, not exactly in the same house, but on the same grounds
Oh, indeed. That makes such a difference; doesn't it? You are not a man to bear much privation on the score of partridges, nor a great deal, I imagine, for friendship. But when you talk of pretty girls
It makes a difference, doesn't it? "A very great difference. I think I have heard of that Mrs Dale before. And so her girls are nice? 

"Very nice indeed
Play croquet, I suppose, and eat syllabubs on the lawn? But, really, didn't you get very tired of it? "Oh dear, no. I was happy as the day was long
Going about with a crook, I suppose
Not exactly a live crook; but doing all that kind of thing. I learned a great deal about pigs
Under the guidance of Miss Dale
Yes; under the guidance of Miss Dale
I'm sure one is very much obliged to you for tearing yourself away from such charms, and coming to such unromantic people as we are. But I fancy men always do that sort of thing once or twice in their lives -- and then they talk of their souvenirs. I suppose it won't go beyond a souvenir with you
It has, at any rate, given me one
which will last me my life
I say, Crosbie
Not a word
Then it must have been me
I have letters to write
Besides, I never smoke before dinner
That's nonsense. I've smoked hundreds of cigars with you before dinner. Are you going to turn curmudgeon, too, like George and the rest of them? I don't know what's coming to the world! I suppose the fact is, that little girl at Allington won't let you smoke
The little girl at Allington
I'll tell you what it is
I really have got letters to write which must go by this post. There's my cigar-case on the dressing-table
I hope it will be long before I'm brought to such a state
Let me have the case back
A present from the little girl, I suppose
All right, old fellow! you shall have it
There would be a nice brother-in-law for a man
I have tried
I have struggled honestly, with my best efforts for success; but I am not good enough for such success
said Mrs Dale
If he is good and affectionate to her she will be happy wherever he is
I hope so -- I'm sure I hope so. But it seems as though she will be so far separated from us. It is not the distance, but the manner of life which makes the separation. I hope you'll never be taken so far from me
I don't think I shall allow myself to be taken up to London
But one can never tell. If I do you must follow us, mamma
I do not want another Mr Crosbie for you, dear
But perhaps I may want one for myself. You need not tremble quite yet, however. Apollos do not come this road every day
Poor Lily! Do you remember when she first called him Apollo? I do, well. I remember his corning here the day after Bernard brought him down, and how you were playing on the lawn, while I was in the other garden. I little thought then what it would come to
But, mamma, you don't regret it
Not if it's to make her happy. If she can be happy with him, of course I shall not regret it; not though he were to take her to the world's end away from us. What else have I to look for but that she and you should both be happy
Men in London are happy with their wives as well as men in the country
Oh, yes; of all women I should be the first to acknowledge that
And as to Adolphus himself, I do not know why we should distrust him
No, my dear; there is no reason. If I did distrust him I should not have given so ready an assent to the marriage. But, nevertheless
The truth is, you don't like him, mamma
Not so cordially as I hope I may like any man whom you may choose for your husband
I know mamma does not love him
Not as you do, Lily; but she does love him
Not as I do! To say that is nonsense, Bell; of course she does not love him as I do. But the truth is she does not love him at all. Do you think I cannot see it
I'm afraid that you see too much
That's hardly fair upon mamma
She does not disapprove of him, and she never did. You know mamma well enough to be sure that she would not interfere with us in such a matter without very strong reason. As regards Mr Crosbie, she gave her consent without a moment's hesitation
Yes, she did
How can you say, then, that she disapproves of him
I didn't mean to find fault with mamma. Perhaps it will come all right
It will come all, right
Bell
there's your uncle at the window. Let him in
What! fires already
I never have fires at the other house in the morning till the first of November. I like to see a spark in the grate after dinner
I like a fire when I'm cold
Bell, my dear
I want to speak to your mother for a minute or two on a matter of business. You wouldn't mind leaving us for a little while, would you
Uncle Christopher is below with mamma
talking about business. I suppose it is something to do with your marriage
Mary
I'll tell you what it is that I have come to say to you
I wish to speak to you about Bell
About Bell
Yes, about Bell. Here's Lily going to be married, and it will be well that Bell should be married too
I don't see that at all
I am by no means in a hurry to be rid of her
No, I dare say not. But, of course, you only regard her welfare, and I can truly say that I do the same. There would be no necessity for hurry as to a marriage for her under ordinary circumstances, but there may be circumstances to make such a thing desirable, and I think that there are
though I believe you hardly give me credit for doing so
I am sure you do
and they are both well aware of it
And I am very anxious that they should be comfortably established in life. I have no children of my own, and those of my two brothers are everything to me
If Bernard would marry well
I have no doubt it would be a comfort to you
That's just it
It would be a great comfort to me. And if he and Bell could make up their minds together, it would, I should think, be a great comfort to you also
Bernard and Bell
Then Bell has not spoken to you about it
Never a word
And you had never thought about it
Certainly not
I have thought about it a great deal. For some years I have always been thinking of it. I have set my heart upon it, and shall be very unhappy if it cannot be brought about. They are both very dear to me -- dearer than anybody else. If I could see them man and wife, I should not much care then how soon I left the old place to them
It is good of you to think of her
I think a great deal about her
Has Bernard offered to her
So he tells me; and she has refused him. It may perhaps be natural that she should do so, never having taught herself to look at him in the light of a lover. I don't blame her at all. I am not angry with her
Angry with her! No. You can hardly be angry with her for not being in love with her cousin
I say that I am not angry with her. But I think she might undertake to consider the question. You would like such a match, would you not
Well
I was thinking
Do you say that she has already refused him
I am afraid she has; but then you know
It must of course be left for her to judge
If you mean that she cannot be made to marry her cousin, of course we all know she can't
I mean rather more than that
That the matter must be left altogether to her own decision; that no persuasion must be used by you or me. If he can persuade her, indeed
Indeed she has
And a word from you would go a long way with her -- as it ought. If she knows that you would like her to marry her cousin, it will make her think it her duty
Ah I but that is just what I cannot try to make her think
Will you let me speak, Mary? You take me up and scold me before the words are half out of my mouth. Of course I know that in these days a young lady is not to be compelled into marrying anybody -- not but that, as far as I can see, they did better than they do now when they had not quite so much of their own way
I never would take upon myself to ask a child to marry any man
But you may explain to her that it is her duty to give such a proposal much thought before it is absolutely refused. A girl either is in love or she is not. If she is, she is ready to jump down a man's throat; and that was the case with Lily
She never thought of the man till he had proposed to her fully
Well, never mind now. But if a girl is not in love, she thinks she is bound to swear and declare that she never will be so
I don't think Bell ever declared anything of the kind
Yes, she did. She told Bernard that she didn't love him and couldn't love him -- and, in fact, that she wouldn't think anything more about it. Now, Mary, that's what I call being headstrong and positive. I don't want to drive her, and I don't want you to drive her. But here is an arrangement which for her will be a very good one; you must admit that. We all know that she is on excellent terms with Bernard. It isn't as though they had been falling out and hating each other all their lives. She told him that she was very fond of him, and talked nonsense about being his sister, and all that
I don't see that it was nonsense at all
Yes, it was nonsense -- on such an occasion. If a man asks a girl to marry him, he doesn't want her to talk to him about being his sister. I think it is nonsense. If she would only consider about it properly she would soon learn to love him
That lesson, if it be learned at all, must be learned without any tutor
You won't do anything to help me then
I will, at any rate, do nothing to mar you. And, to tell the truth, I must think over the matter fully before I can decide what I had better say to Bell about it. From her not speaking to me
I think she ought to have told you
No, Mr Dale. Had she accepted him, of course she would have told me. Had she thought of doing so she might probably have consulted me. But if she made up her mind that she must reject him
She oughtn't to have made up her mind
But if she did, it seems natural to me that she should speak of it to no one. She might probably think that. Bernard would be as well pleased that it should not be known
Psha -- known!-- of course it will be known. As you want time to consider of it, I will say nothing more now. If she were my daughter, I should have no hesitation in telling her what I thought best for her welfare
I have none; though I may have some in making up my mind as to what is best for her welfare. But, Mr Dale, you may be sure of this; I will speak to her very earnestly of your kindness and love for her. And I wish you would believe that I feel your regard for her very strongly
You would be glad to see them married, as regards yourself
Certainly I would
I have always liked Bernard, and I believe my girl would be safe with him. But then, you see, it's a question on which my own likings or dislikings should not have any bearing
It is not that I complain of being poor as I am
or at any rate, not so poor that my poverty must be any source of discomfort to me; but I could hardly marry with such an income as I have at present
But it will increase, will it not
It may some day, when I am becoming an old man
But of what use will it be to me then
I suppose it must
I should think it wrong to ask any lady to share such an income as mine
I should be afraid of myself in marrying a girl with money
besides, that is altogether out of the question now
It is a hard thing to do
It is a hard thing to do, but I will determine to think of it no further. I believe a man may be as happy single as he may married -- almost
Perhaps more so
The earl ain't very bad
but he would be glad to see you if possible a little before dinner
You're sure he wants to see me
Oh, yes; I'm sure enough of that, sir
It wasn't Dr Gruffen? "No, sir; it wasn't Dr Gruffen. I believe his lordship's had about enough of Dr Gruffen. The doctor took to chaffing his lordship one day
Chaffed his lordship -- his hands and feet, and that sort of thing
Hands and feet
Lord bless you, sir, he poked his fun at him, just as though he was nobody. I didn't hear, but Mrs Connor says that my lord's back was up terribly high
How d'ye do, how d'ye do
I'm not very ill, but I want to get a little advice from you. It's quite a trifle, but I thought it well to see somebody
I know all about you, you know
Your grandmother Stoddard was a very old friend of my aunt's. You don't remember Lady Jemima
No
I never had that honour
It's an ill wind that blows nobody any good
Perhaps it'll blow me some good, for Gruffen never did me any. The fact is this; I'm very well, you know -- as strong as a horse
You look pretty well
No man could be better -- not of my age. I'm sixty, you know
You don't look as though you were ailing
I'm always out in the open air, and that, I take it, is the best thing for a man
There's nothing like plenty of exercise, certainly
And I'm always taking exercise
There isn't a man about the place works much harder than I do. And, let me tell you, sir, when you undertake to keep six or seven hundred acres of land in your own hand, you must look after it, unless you mean to lose money by it
I've always heard that your lordship is a good farmer
Well, yes; wherever the grass may grow about my place, it doesn't grow under my feet. You won't often find me in bed at six o'clock, I can tell you
Ah, I was just coming to that
They tell me it's a very dangerous practice to go to sleep after dinner
It's not very uncommon at any rate
I suppose not; but Lady Julia is always at me about it. And, to tell the truth, I think I sleep almost too sound when I get to my arm-chair in the drawing-room. Sometimes my sister really can't wake me -- so, at least, she says
And how's your appetite at dinner
Oh, I'm quite right there. I never eat any luncheon, you know, and enjoy my dinner thoroughly. Then I drink three or four glasses of port wine
And feel sleepy afterwards
That's just it
And look here, Doctor Crofts, I'm all alone just at present. Suppose you come over and dine with me tomorrow; then, if I should go to sleep, you know, you'll be able to let me know whether Lady Julia doesn't exaggerate. Just between ourselves, I don't quite believe all she says about my -- my snoring, you know
Ah, yes
I think I do feel lighter. I enjoy a snooze after dinner; I do indeed; I like it; but then, when one comes to go to bed, one does it in such a sneaking sort of way, as though one were in disgrace! And my sister, she thinks it a crime -- literally a sin, to go to sleep in a chair. Nobody ever caught her napping! By-the-by, Dr Crofts, did you know that Mr Crosbie whom Bernard Dale brought down to Allington? Lady Julia and he are staying at the same house now
I met him once at Mrs Dale's
Going to marry one of the girls, isn't he
Ah, yes; a nice girl I'm told. You know all those Dales are connections of ours. My sister Fanny married their uncle Orlando. My brother-in-law doesn't like travelling, and so I don't see very much of him; but of course I'm interested about the family
They're very old friends of mine
Yes, I dare say. There are two girls, are there not
Yes, two
And Miss Lily is the youngest. There's nothing about the elder one getting married, is there? "I've not heard anything of it
A very pretty girl she is, too. I remember seeing her at her uncle's last year. I shouldn't wonder if she were to marry her cousin Bernard. He is to have the property, you know; and he's my nephew
I'm not quite sure that it's a good thing for cousins to marry
They do, you know, very often; and it suits some family arrangements. I suppose Dale must provide for them, and that would take one off his hands without any trouble
The younger one
has provided for herself
What; by getting a husband? But I suppose Dale must give her something. They're not married yet, you know, and, from what I hear, that fellow may prove a slippery customer. He'll not marry her unless old Dale gives her something. You'll see if he does. I'm told that he has got another string to his bow at Courcy Castle
It'll be a great convenience to me if you'd come about that time
and as you're a bachelor perhaps you won't mind it. You'll come on Thursday at seven, will you? Take care of yourself. It's as dark as pitch. John, go and open the first gates for Dr Crofts
He'll not marry her unless old Dale gives her something
He's got another string to his bow at Courcy Castle
Why, miss, they all be delivered; you know that
But one might be left behind, I thought
John Postman went up to the house this very day, with a newspaper for your mamma. I can't make letters for people if folks don't write them
But they are left behind sometimes, Mrs Crump. He wouldn't come up with one letter if he'd got nothing else for anybody in the street
Indeed but he would then. I wouldn't let him leave a letter here no how, nor yet a paper. It's no good you're coming down here for letters, Miss Lily. If he don't write to you, I can't make him do it
My heart is on the Allington lawns
and you too
Does he say anything particular
Yes, mamma; it's all very particular
But there's nothing for the public ear
He sends his love to you and Bell
We are very much obliged to him
So you ought to be. And he says that he went to church going through Barchester, and that the clergyman was the grandfather of that Lady Dumbello. When he got to Courcy Castle Lady Dumbello was there
What a singular coincidence
I won't tell you a word more about his letter
And four months ago I had never even heard of him
Dearest Adolphus, I need not tell you how delighted I was when your letter was brought to me this morning
I am in time, Mrs Crump, am I not
Of course you be -- for the next half-hour. T' postman -- he bain't stirred from t' ale'us yet. Just put it into t' box wull ye
But you won't leave it there
Leave it there! Did you ever hear the like of that? If you're afeared to put it in, you can take it away; that's all about it, Miss Lily
tuppence farden a day. It don't find me in shoe-leather; no more it don't
What an ass I am to be afraid of her
What an ass I am to be afraid of her
Nothing on earth shall make me marry her
not if they bring a dozen actions against me. She knows as well as I do, that I have never intended to marry her. It's a cheat from beginning to end. If she comes down here, I'll tell her so before my mother
They were here a minute ago, all three
If you'll walk down the garden, Mr John, you'll be sure to find some of 'em
Oh, John
I've just come over
because I promised. I said I'd come before I went back to London
And they'll be very glad to see you, and so am I. Shall we go after them into the other grounds? But perhaps you walked over and are tired
I did walk
not that I am very tired
You'll stay and dine with us
No, I'll not do that, for I especially told my mother that I would be back
I'm sure it was very good of you to walk so far to see us. If you really are not tired, I think we will go to mamma, as she would be very sorry to miss you
I don't think I'll go into the squire's garden
Uncle Christopher is not there. He is about the farm somewhere
If you don't mind, Lily, I think I'll stay here. I suppose they'll be back soon. Of course I should like to see them before I go away to London. But, Lily, I came over now chiefly to see you. It was you who asked me to promise
Shall we go into the drawing-room
I don't want to go in unless you wish it
Indeed, I'd rather stay here. So, Lily, you're going to be married
Yes
I believe I am
I have not told you yet that I congratulated you
I have known very well that you did so in your heart. I have always been sure that you wished me well
Indeed I have. And if congratulating a person is hoping that she may always be happy, I do congratulate you. But, Lily
I think I understand all that you would say. I do not want ordinary words to tell me that I am to count you among my best friends
No, Lily; you don't understand all that I would say. You have never known how often and how much I have thought of you; how dearly I have loved you
John, you must not talk of that now
I cannot go without telling you. When I came over here, and Mrs Dale told me that you were to be married to that man
You must not speak of Mr Crosbie in that way
I did not mean to say anything disrespectful of him to you. I should hate myself if I were to do so. Of course you like him better than anybody else
I love him better than all the world besides
And so do I love you better than all the world besides
I know how poor I am, and unworthy of you; and only that you are engaged to him, I don't suppose that I should now tell you. Of course you couldn't accept such a one as me. But I have loved you ever since you remember; and now that you are going to be his wife, I cannot but tell you that it is so. You will go and live in London; but as to my seeing you there, it will be impossible. I could not go into that man's house
Oh, John
No, never; not if you became his wife. I have loved you as well as he does. When Mrs Dale told me of it, I thought I should have fallen. I went away without seeing you because I was unable to speak to you. I made a fool of myself, and have been a fool all along. I am foolish now to tell you this, but I cannot help it
You will forget it all when you meet some girl that you can really love
And have I not really loved you? Well, never mind. I have said what I came to say, and I will now go. If it ever happens that we are down in the country together, perhaps I may see you again; but never in London. Good-bye, Lily
And won't you stay for mamma
No. Give her my love, and to Bell. They understand all about it. They will know why I have gone. If ever you should want anybody to do anything for you, remember that I will do it, whatever it is
She chooses to scorn me now
but the time may come when she will wish that she had scorned him
The boys tease him, and the men are almost worse than the boys
but he'll never hurt any one that has not hurt him
Halloo
There's a man. Come on
Come on
Come on, I say
Don't come close
Keep a little apart. Ugh! ugh! whoop, whoop
Now for the gate
Slowly does it; slowly does it; don't run
All right
Hold on till we reach the gate
Ugh! ugh! Whoop! whoop
Now get over
And what'll you do
I'll go at the hedge to the right
I hope you're not hurt, my lord
Oh dear, no; but I'm terribly out of breath. Why, you're bleeding all over. He didn't get at you, did he
It's only the thorns in the hedge
But I've lost my hat
There are plenty more hats
I think I'll have a try for it
He looks quiet now
Go after your hat
You must be a fool to think of it. If you're afraid of catching cold, you shall have mine
I'm not the least afraid of catching cold
Is he often like that, my lord
The gentlest creature alive; he's like a lamb generally -- just like a lamb. Perhaps he saw my red pocket-handkerchief
But where should I have been if you hadn't come up
You'd have got to the gate, my lord
Yes; with my feet foremost, and four men carrying me. I'm very thirsty. You don't happen to carry a flask, do you
No, my lord, I don't
Then we'll make the best of our way home, and have a glass of wine there
You can write a note to your mother, and I'll send it by one of the boys
But I'm so badly off for clothes, my lord
I tore my trousers in the hedge
There will be nobody there beside us two and Dr Crofts. The doctor will forgive you when he hears the story; and as for me, I didn't care if you hadn't a stitch to your back. You'll have company back to Guestwick, so come along
I never teased him, or annoyed him in any way
I suppose they are dangerous beasts
Not a bit of it, if they're properly treated. It must have been my handkerchief, I suppose. I remember that I did blow my nose
Where should I have been if you had not come to me
And now we'll have a drink
I don't know how you feel, but I never was so thirsty in my life
Has the gentleman hurt hisself, my lord
He has hurt his trousers the worst, I believe
And if he was to put on any of mine they'd be too short and too big, wouldn't they? I am sorry you should be so uncomfortable, but you mustn't mind it for once
I don't mind it a bit
And I'm sure I don't
Mr Eames is going to dine here, Vickers
Yes, my lord
And his hat is down in the middle of the nineteen acres. Let three or four men go for it
Three or four men, my lord
Yes -- three or four men. There's something gone wrong with that bull. And you must get a boy with a pony to take a note into Guestwick, to Mrs Eames. Oh dear, I'm better now
Write your note here, and then we'll go and see my pet pheasants before dinner
Just a bachelor's chop
for there's nobody at home but myself
It's some trouble about the bull, I know
but bless you, the bull couldn't have tore his things in that way
I have torn my trousers all to pieces
and have lost my hat. Everything else is all right
Now, I'll tell you what
I advise you to take to shooting. It's the amusement of a gentleman when a man chances to have the command of game
But I'm always up in London
No, you're not. You're not up in London now. You always have your holidays. If you choose to try it, I'll see that you have shooting enough while you're here. It's better than going to sleep under the trees. Ha, ha, ha! I wonder what made you lay yourself down there. You hadn't been fighting a bull that day
No, my lord. I hadn't seen the bull then
Well; you think of what I've been saying. When I say a thing, I mean it. You shall have shooting enough, if you have a mind to try it
That's hard upon you, isn't it
But, at any rate, you can wash your hands, and get rid of the blood. I'll be down in the little drawing-room five minutes before seven, and I suppose I'll find you there
Eames
I want you to accept a little present from me -- just as a memorial of our affair with the bull. It will make you think of it sometimes, when I'm perhaps gone
Oh, my lord
It's my own watch, that I have been wearing for some time; but I've got another -- two or three, I believe, somewhere upstairs. You mustn't refuse me. I can't bear being refused. There are two or three little seals, too, which I have worn. I have taken off the one with my arms, because that's of no use to you, and it is to me. It doesn't want a key, but winds up at the handle, in this way
My lord, you think too much of what happened today
No, I don't; I think very little about it. I know what I think of. Put the watch in your pocket before the doctor comes. There; I hear his horse. Why didn't he drive over, and then he could have taken you back
I can walk very well
I'll make that all right. The servant shall ride Crofts' horse, and bring back the little phaeton. How d'you do, doctor? You know Eames, I suppose? You needn't look at him in that way. His leg is not broken; it's only his trousers
Johnny will become quite a hero in town
Yes; I fear he'll get the most of the credit; and yet I was at it twice as long as he was. I'll tell you what, young men, when I got to that gate I didn't think I'd breath enough left in me to get over it. It's all very well jumping into a hedge when you're only two-and-twenty; but when a man comes to be sixty he likes to take his time about such things. Dinner ready, is it? So am I. I quite forgot that mutton chop of yours today, doctor. But I suppose a man may eat a good dinner after a fight with a bull
So that I haven't a doubt about his being in love
If I am to take more of the severe Falernian
I must know the lady's name. Whoever she be, I'm well sure you need not blush for her. What! you refuse to tell! Then I'll drink no more
He'll make him his heir
I shouldn't wonder a bit if he don't make him his heir
A hearl can never choose his own heir, like you or me
Can't he though really, now? That's very hard on him; isn't it
Psha
you know nothing about it. My lord could make young Eames his heir tomorrow; that is, the heir of his property. He couldn't make him a hearl, because that must go to the heirs of his body. As to his leaving him the place here, I don't just know how that'd be; and I'm sure Richard don't
But suppose he hasn't got any heirs of his body
He must have heirs of his body
Everybody has 'em. If a man don't know 'em himself, the law finds 'em out
Eh; yes; what
I'm not asleep
Perhaps we could get off without waking him
Eh; what
Eh, what? tea
Yes, we'll have a little tea. I've heard every word you've been saying
You cannot have heard what I have been saying, Theodore, because I have said nothing
But I should have heard it if you had
If you'll allow me, my lord, I think I'll order my horse
Yes; horse -- yes
But what are you to do, Eames, if I ride
I'll walk
What -- what -- what
Oh, ah, yes; going away, are you? I suppose you might as well, as sit here and see me sleeping. But, doctor -- I didn't snore, did I
Only occasionally
Not loud, did I? Come, Eames, did I snore loud? "Well, my lord, you did snore rather loud two or three times
Did I
And yet, do you know, I heard every word you said
Look here, Eames
You're going back to town the day after tomorrow, you say, so I shan't see you again
Look you here, now. I shall be up for the Cattle-show before Christmas. You must dine with me at my hotel, on the twenty-second of December, Pawkins's, in Jermyn Street; seven o'clock, sharp. Mind you do not forget, now. Put it down in your pocket-book when you get home. Good-bye, doctor; good-bye. I see I must stick to that mutton chop in the middle of the day
He'll make him his heir for certain
You were returning from Allington, I suppose
when you came across Lord de Guest and the bull
Yes: I just walked over to say good-bye to them
Did you find them all well
Mrs Dale, was it
No; it was Lily
Sitting alone, thinking of her fine London lover, of course. I suppose we ought to look upon her as a very lucky girl. I have no doubt she thinks herself so
I'm sure I don't know
I believe he's a very good young man
I should think not
But then in all probability he did not like mine a bit better, or perhaps yours either. And if so it's all fair
I don't see that it's a bit fair. He's a snob
and I don't believe that I am
severe Falernian
No; I don't think he is a snob
Had he been so, Mrs Dale would have perceived it
You'll see
You'll see. A man who gives himself airs is a snob; and he gives himself airs. And I don't believe he's a straightforward fellow. It was a bad day for us all when he came among them at Allington
I can't say that I see that
I do. But mind, I haven't spoken a word of this to any one. And I don't mean. What would be the good? I suppose she must marry him now
Of course she must
And be wretched all her life. Oh-h-h-h
I'll tell you what it is, Crofts. He is going to take the sweetest girl out of this country that ever was in it, and he don't deserve her
I don't think she can be compared to her sister
What; not Lily
I have always thought that Bell was the more admired of the two
I'll tell you what
I have never yet set my eyes on any human creature whom I thought so beautiful as Lily Dale. And now that beast is going to marry her! I'll tell you what, Crofts; I'll manage to pick a quarrel with him yet
He has saved the earl's life
Oh, goodness
Saved Lord de Guest's life
Yes -- under Providence
But how did he do it
By cool courage and good feeling -- so his lordship says. But I wonder how he really did do it
Whatever way it was, he's torn all his clothes and lost his hat
I don't care a bit about that
I wonder whether the earl has any interest at the Income-tax. What a thing it would be if he could get Johnny a step. It would be seventy pounds a year at once. He was quite right to stay and dine when his lordship asked him. And so Dr Crofts is there. It couldn't have been anything in the doctoring way, I suppose
No, I should say not; because of what he says of his trousers
How did you do it, John
How did you save the earl's life
Would his lordship really have been killed, if it had not been for you
And was he very much hurt
Oh, bother
Oh, Johnny, do tell us. Of course we must be very anxious to know it all
There's nothing to tell, except that a bull ran at the earl, as I was going by; so I went into the field and helped him, and then he made me stay and dine with him
But his lordship says that you saved his life
Under Providence
At any rate, he has given me a gold watch and chain
I wanted a watch badly. All the same, I didn't like taking it
It would have been very wrong to refuse
And I am so glad you have been so fortunate. And look here, Johnny: when a friend like that comes in your way, don't turn your back on him
And when will you tell me what you promised
Even Diana
And what did I promise
You know well enough. Not that it is a matter of any special interest to me; only, as you undertook to promise, of course my curiosity has been raised
you will not object to absolve me from my promise
That is just like you
And how false you men always are. You made up your mind to buy my silence on a distasteful subject by pretending to offer me your future confidence; and now you tell me that you do not mean to confide in me
You begin by telling me that the matter is one that does not in the least interest you
That is so false again! You know very well what I meant. Do you remember what you said to me the day you came? and am I not bound to tell you after that, that your marriage with this or that young lady is not matter of special interest to me? Still, as your friend
Well, as my friend
I shall be glad to know -- But I am not going to beg for your confidence; only I tell you this fairly, that no man is so mean in my eyes as a man who fights under false colours
And am I fighting under false colours
Yes, you are
Yes, you are. A gentleman is fighting under false colours who comes into a house like this, with a public rumour of his being engaged, and then conducts himself as though nothing of the kind existed. Of course, it is not anything to me specially; but that is fighting under false colours. Now, sir, you may redeem the promise you made me when you first came here -- or you may let it alone
Now, sir, you may redeem the promise you made me when you first came here -- or you may let it alone
Alexandrina
Well, sir? But you have no right to speak to me in that style. You know that you have no right to call me by my name in that way
You mean that you insist upon your title
All ladies insist on what you call their title, from gentlemen, except under the privilege of greater intimacy than you have the right to claim. You did not call Miss Dale by her Christian name till you had obtained permission, I suppose
You used to let me call you so
Never! Once or twice, when you have done so, I have not forbidden it, as I should have done. Very well, sir, as you have nothing to tell me, I will leave you. I must confess that I did not think you were such a coward
Stay a moment, Alexandrina
I am not happy, and you should not say words intended to make me more miserable
And why are you unhappy
Because I will tell you instantly, if I may believe that I am telling you only, and not the whole household
Of course I shall not talk of it to others. Do you think that I cannot keep a secret
It is because I have promised to marry one woman, and because I love another. I have told you everything now; and if you choose to say again that I am fighting under false colours I will leave the castle before you can see me again
Mr Crosbie
Now you know it all, and may imagine whether or no I am very happy. I think you said it was time to dress -- suppose we go
I am unworthy of her, and will tell her so
Others have gone through the same fire before
and have come out scatheless
Dear me! Lady Julia
I shall begin to think you are in love with Mr Crosbie yourself; you harp so constantly on this affair of his. One would think that young ladies in your part of the world must find it very difficult to get husbands, seeing that the success of one young lady is trumpeted so loudly
Mr Crosbie
have you heard lately from our dear friend, Lily Dale
I had a letter from Allington yesterday
The bull
Good gracious! Lady Julia, how very odd you are
But what about the bull
It seems that the earl was knocked down in the middle of one of his own fields
Oh, dear
But he wasn't hurt
A young man named Eames seems to have fallen from the sky and carried off the earl on his back
Ha, ha, ha, ha
I hope that there has not really been any accident
My brother was quite well last night, thank you
Was that all an invention of yours, sir
Not quite. I did get a letter this morning from my friend Bernard Dale -- that old harridan's nephew; and Lord de Guest has been worried by some of his animals. I wish I had told her that his stupid old neck had been broken
Fie, Mr Crosbie
But I mean to ask the same question that she asked, and you won't put me off with a cock-and-bull story like that
And is it true that De Guest has been tossed by a bull
Only knocked down, I believe
Ha, ha, ha
I don't see anything to laugh at
Don't you
Ha, ha, ha
I'll be shot if I do. From all I hear De Guest is an uncommon good farmer. And I don't see the joke of tossing a farmer merely because he's a nobleman also. Do you
So different to the earl and Lord Porlock
How I do wish they were married and done with
and then we should hear no more about them
I wish it was a hundred and twelve
In that case I should be forced to start to-night
Then I wish it was a thousand and twelve
In that case I should not have come at all
The young men are becoming absolute bears
I should hardly have expected to find you here
Nor I you
Though, for the matter of that, we are both near our own homes
I am not near mine
I meant Plumstead; your father's place
Yes; that was my home once
I wish I could show you my uncle's place. The castle is very fine, and he has some good pictures
So I have heard
Do you stay here long
Oh, no. I go to Cheshire the day after tomorrow. Lord Dumbello is always there when the hunting begins
Ah, yes; of course. What a happy fellow he is; never any work to do! His constituents never trouble him, I suppose? "I don't think they ever do, much
By Jove
I wonder how Dumbello likes it
It seems to me that Dumbello takes it very easily
There are some men who will take anything easily
She's beginning to come out a little
Still waters always run deep, you know
I shouldn't at all wonder if she were to go off with him
He'll never be such a fool as that
I believe men will be fools enough for anything
But, of course, if he did, it would come to nothing afterwards. I know one who would not be sorry. If ever a man was tired of a woman, Lord Dumbello is tired of her
That woman almost drives me mad
But, my dear, you of all people should not allow yourself to be driven mad on such a subject
That's all very well, Amelia
The question is this, my dear -- what does Mr Crosbie mean to do
How should I know
If you don't know, it will be safer to suppose that he is going to marry this girl; and in that case
Well, what in that case? Are you going to be another Lady Julia? What do I care about the girl
I don't suppose you care much about the girl; and if you care as little about Mr Crosbie, there's an end of it; only in that case, Alexandrina
You know I don't want to preach to you. Can't you tell me at once whether you really like him? You and I have always been good friends
I like him well enough
And has he made any declaration to you
In a sort of a way he has. Hark, here he is
We were driven away by the clack of Lady Julia's tongue
I never met such a woman
There cannot well be many like her
I suppose she would rather I should go
Will you come on into the other room
I think we are very well here
But I wish to speak to you -- particularly
And cannot you speak here
No. They will be passing backwards and forwards
And now, Mr Crosbie, what have you got to say to me? But, first, I mean to repeat Lady Julia's question, as I told you that I should do.-- When did you hear last from Miss Dale
It is cruel in you to ask me such a question, after what I have already told you. You know that I have given to Miss Dale a promise of marriage
Very well, sir. I don't see why you should bring me in here to tell me anything that is so publicly known as that. With such a herald as Lady Julia it was quite unnecessary
If you can only answer me in that tone I will make an end of it at once. When I told you of my engagement, I told you also that another woman possessed my heart. Am I wrong to suppose that you knew to whom I alluded
Indeed, I did not, Mr Crosbie. I am no conjuror, and I have not scrutinised you so closely as your friend Lady Julia
It is you that I love. I am sure I need hardly say so now
Hardly, indeed -- considering that you are engaged to Miss Dale
As to that I have, of course, to own that I have behaved foolishly -- worse than foolishly, if you choose to say so. You cannot condemn me more absolutely than I condemn myself. But I have made up my mind as to one thing. I will not marry where I do not love
It would be impossible for me to speak in terms too high of Miss Dale; but I am quite sure that I could not make her happy as her husband
Why did you not think of that before you asked her
I ought to have done so; but it is hardly for you to blame me with severity. Had you, when we were last together in London -- had you been less
Less what
Less defiant
all this might perhaps have been avoided
Oh, yes; of course it was my fault
I went down there to Allington with my heart ill at ease, and now I have fallen into this trouble. I tell you all as it has happened. It is impossible that I should marry Miss Dale. It would be wicked in me to do so, seeing that my heart belongs altogether to another. I have told you who is that other; and now may I hope for an answer
An answer to what
Alexandrina, will you be my wife
How long is it, Mr Crosbie
since you put the same question to Miss Dale
I have told you everything, Alexandrina -- as I promised that I would do. If you intend to punish me for doing so
And I might ask another question. How long will it be before you put the same question to some other girl
By heaven
I'll have an answer. You at any rate have nothing with which to reproach me. All that I have done wrong, I have done through you, or on your behalf. You have heard my proposal. Do you intend to accept it
I declare you startle me. If you demanded my money or my life, you could not be more imperious
Certainly not more resolute in my determination
And if I decline the honour
I shall think you the most fickle of your sex
And if I were to accept it
I would swear that you were the best, the dearest, and the sweetest of women
I would rather have your good opinion than your bad, certainly
that poor Miss Dale
I shall tell mamma, to-night
George, I cannot quite understand about that Mr Palliser. Isn't he to be a duke, and oughtn't he to be a lord now
Yes; he'll be Duke of Omnium when the old fellow dies. I think he's one of the slowest fellows I ever came across. He'll take deuced good care of the property, though
But, George, do explain it to me. It is so stupid not to understand, and I am afraid of opening my mouth for fear of blundering
Then keep your mouth shut, my dear. You'll learn all those sort of things in time, and nobody notices it if you don't say anything
Yes, but, George -- I don't like to sit silent all the night. I'd sooner be up here with a novel if I can't speak about anything
Look at Lady Dumbello. She doesn't want to be always talking
Lady Dumbello is very different from me. But do tell me, who is Mr Palliser? "He's the duke's nephew. If he were the duke's son, he would be the Marquis of Silverbridge
And will he be plain Mister till his uncle dies
Yes, a very plain Mister
What a pity for him. But, George -- if I have a baby, and if he should be a boy, and if
Oh, nonsense; it will be time enough to talk of that when he comes. I'm going to sleep
I must get off by the train
Who is there to speak after me? "Well, I shall say a few words; and Growdy -- he'll expect them to listen to him. Growdy has always stood very firm by his grace, Mr Palliser
Mind we are in the room sharp at one. And you can have a fly, for me to get away to the station, ready in the yard. I won't go a moment before I can help. I shall be just an hour and a half myself. No, thank you, I never take any wine in the morning
Mr Crosbie, if you could spare half an hour, mamma would so like to see you in her own room
Mamma
I have brought Mr Crosbie up to you. I did not know that you were here, Alexandrina, or I should have warned him
I must run down again
or I shall have left Amelia with all the cares of the house upon her
Alexandrina has told me all about it
and I have given her my approval. I really do think you will suit each other very well
I am very much obliged to you
I'm sure at any rate of this -- that she will suit me very well
Yes; I think she will. She is a good sensible girl
Psha, mamma; pray don't go on in that Goody Twoshoes sort of way
So you are, my dear. If you were not it would not be well for you to do as you are going to do. If you were giddy and harum-scarum, and devoted to rank and wealth and that sort of thing, it would not be well for you to marry a commoner without fortune. I'm sure Mr Crosbie will excuse me for saying so much as that
Of course I know
that I had no right to look so high
Well; we'll say nothing more about it
Pray don't
It sounds so like a sermon
Sit down, Mr Crosbie
and let us have a little conversation. She shall sit by you, if you like it. Nonsense, Alexandrina -- if he asks it
Don't, mamma -- I mean to remain where I am
Very well, my dear -- then remain where you are. She is a wilful girl, Mr Crosbie; as you will say when you hear that she has told me all that you told her last night
She has told me
about that young lady at Allington. Upon my word, I'm afraid you have been very naughty
I have been foolish, Lady de Courcy
Of course; I did not mean anything worse than that. Yes, you have been foolish -- amusing yourself in a thoughtless way, you know, and, perhaps, a little piqued because a certain lady was not to be won so easily as your Royal Highness wished. Well, now, all that must be settled, you know, as quickly as possible. I don't want to ask any indiscreet questions; but if the young lady has really been left with any idea that you meant anything, don't you think you should undeceive her at once
Of course he will, mamma
If the earl were to hear it, he might, you know
If it will make the matter easier, I will write to Mrs Dale
I will tell him this afternoon
and then you can see him tomorrow morning. I don't suppose he will say very much, you know; and perhaps he may think -- you won't mind my saying it, I'm sure -- that Alexandrina might have done better. But I don't believe that he'll raise any strong objection. There will be something about settlements, and that sort of thing, of course
So you mean to marry my daughter
I'm not very well, as you see; I seldom am
If your lordship has no objection. I have, at any rate, her permission to ask for yours
I believe you have not any fortune, have you? She's got none; of course you know that
I have a few thousand pounds, and I believe she has as much
About as much as will buy bread to keep the two of you from starving. It's nothing to me. You can marry her if you like; only, look here, I'll have no nonsense. I've had an old woman in with me this morning -- one of those that are here in the house -- telling me some story about some other girl that you have made a fool of. It's nothing to me how much of that sort of thing you may have done, so that you do none of it here. But -- if you play any prank of that kind with me, you'll find that you've made a mistake
You'd better talk to Gazebee about the trifle of money you've got
Mr Crosbie
let me have one word with you. Is this true
Lady Julia
I really do not know why you should inquire into my private affairs
Yes, sir, you do know, you know very well. That poor young lady who has no father and no brother, is my neighbour, and her friends are my friends. She is a friend of my own, and being an old woman, I have a right to speak for her. If this is true, Mr Crosbie, you are treating her like a villain
Lady Julia, I really must decline to discuss the matter with you
I'll tell everybody what a villain you are; I will, indeed -- a villain and a poor weak silly fool. She was too good for you; that's what she was
We positively must get rid of that woman
She is disturbing the house and disgracing herself every day
She went to papa this morning, mamma
She did not get much by that move
I have been rather disappointed at not hearing this morning
for I thought the postman would have brought me a letter. But I know you'll be a better boy when you get back to London, and I won't scold you. Scold you, indeed! No; I'll never scold you, not though I shouldn't hear for a month
We shall be up in town in November, and of course you'll come to us at once. Albert Villa, you know, in Hamilton Terrace, St. John's Wood. We dine at seven, and on Sundays at two; and you'll always find a place. Mind you come to us, and make yourself quite at home. I do so hope you and Mortimer will get on well together
I'm sure we shall
I wish she had a dozen brothers
I thought you were down in Barsetshire
And I thought you were in Switzerland
I have been in Switzerland
And I have been in Barsetshire
And so you're going to be married
Who told you that
Well, but you are? Never mind who told me, if I was told the truth
But if it be not true
I have heard it for the last month
I believe it is
Why, what on earth is the matter with you, that you speak of it in that way? Am I to congratulate you, or am I not? The lady, I'm told, is a cousin of Dale's
Come up into the smoking-room and I'll tell you all about it
I have got into terrible trouble
infinitely too good for such a man as I am
I should have told you beforehand
that I was already half engaged to Lady Alexandrina de Courcy
And now you mean that you are altogether engaged to her
Exactly so
And that Miss Dale must be told that, on second thoughts, you have changed your mind
I know that I have behaved very badly
Indeed you have
It is one of those troubles in which a man finds himself involved almost before he knows where he is
Well; I can't look at it exactly in that light. A man may amuse himself with a girl, and I can understand his disappointing her and not offering to marry her -- though even that sort of thing isn't much to my taste. But, by George, to make an offer of marriage to such a girl as that in September, to live for a month in her family as her affianced husband, and then coolly go away to another house in October, and make an offer to another girl of higher rank
You know very well that that has had nothing to do with it
It looks very like it. And how are you going to communicate these tidings to Miss Dale
I don't know
And you have quite made up your mind that you'll stick to the earl's daughter
Yes
I shall marry Lady Alexandrina -- that is, if I do not cut the whole concern, and my own throat into the bargain
I don't care a ---- for Miss Dale's uncle
If he were to walk in at that door this moment, I would tell him the whole story, without
Mr Dale, Allington
The gentleman is in the waiting-room
Who's that
Whew-w-w-hew
Did you tell the gentleman I was here
I said I thought you were upstairs, sir
That will do
The gentleman will no doubt wait for a minute
Now, Crosbie, you must make up your mind. By one of these women and all her friends you will ever be regarded as a rascal, and they of course will look out to punish you with such punishment as may come to their hands. You must now choose which shall be the sufferer
If I were you
I would not go down to that man at the present moment for a trifle
But what can I do
Shirk away out of the club. Only if you do that it seems to me that you'll have to go on shirking for the rest of your life
Pratt, I must say that I expected something more like friendship from you
What can I do for you? There are positions in which it is impossible to help a man. I tell you plainly that you have behaved very badly. I do not see that I can help you
Would you see him
Certainly not, if I am to be expected to take your part
Take any part you like -- only tell him the truth
And what is the truth? "I was part engaged to that other girl before; and then, when I came to think of it, I knew that I was not fit to marry Miss Dale. I know I have behaved badly; but, Pratt, thousands have done the same thing before
I can only say that I have not been so unfortunate as to reckon any of those thousands among my friends
You mean to tell me, then, that you are going to turn your back on me
I haven't said anything of the kind. I certainly won't undertake to defend you, for I don't see that your conduct admits of defence. I will see this gentleman if you wish it, and tell him anything that you desire me to tell him
Do you intend to come down to me? I know that you are in the house
For heaven's sake go to him
He is well aware that I was deceived about his niece -- that I thought he was to give her some fortune. He knows all about that, and that when I learned from him that she was to have nothing
Upon my word, Crosbie, I wish you could find another messenger
Ah! you do not understand
You think that I am inventing this plea about her fortune now. It isn't so. He will understand. 'We have talked all this over before, and he knew how terribly I was disappointed. Shall I wait for you here, or will you come to my lodgings? Or I will go down to the Beaufort, and will wait for you there
Do you go down first
Yes: I had better
Otherwise you may be seen. Mr Dale would have his eye upon you, and there would be a row in the house
I wanted to see Mr Crosbie
I have your note to that gentleman in my hand
He has thought it better that you should have this interview with me -- and under all the circumstances perhaps it is better
Is he such a coward that he dare not see me
There are some actions, Mr Dale, that will make a coward of any man. My friend Crosbie is, I take it, brave enough in the ordinary sense of the word, but he has injured you
It is all true, then
Yes, Mr Dale; I fear it is all true
And you call that man your friend! Mr --; I don't know what your name is
Pratt-Fowler Pratt. I have known Crosbie for fourteen years -- ever since he was a boy; and it is not my way, Mr Dale, to throw over an old friend under any circumstances
Not if he committed a murder
No; not though he committed a murder
If what I hear is true, this man is worse than a murderer
Of course, Mr Dale, I cannot know what you have heard. I believe that Mr Crosbie has behaved very badly to your niece, Miss Dale; I believe that he was engaged to marry her, or, at any rate, that some such proposition had been made
Proposition! Why, sir, it was a thing so completely understood that everybody knew it in the county. It was so positively fixed that there was no secret about it. Upon my honour, Mr Pratt, I can't as yet understand it. If I remember right, its not a fortnight since he left my house at Allington -- not a fortnight. And that poor girl was with him on the morning of his going as his betrothed bride. Not a fortnight since! And now I've had a letter from an old family friend telling me that he is going to marry one of Lord de Courcy's daughters! I went instantly off to Courcy, and found that he had started for London. Now, I have followed him here; and you tell me it's all true
I am afraid it is, Mr Dale; too true
I don't understand it; I don't, indeed. I cannot bring myself to believe that the man who was sitting the other day at my table should be so great a scoundrel. Did he mean it all the time that he was there
No; certainly not. Lady Alexandrina de Courcy was, I believe, an old friend of his -- with whom, perhaps, he had had some lover's quarrel. On his going to Courcy they made it up, and this is the result
And that is to be sufficient for my poor girl
You will, of course, understand that I am not defending Mr Crosbie. The whole affair is very sad -- very sad, indeed. I can only say, in his excuse, that he is not the first man who has behaved badly to a lady
And that is his message to me, is it? And that is what I am to tell my niece? You have been deceived by a scoundrel. But what then? You are not the first! Mr Pratt, I give you my word as a gentleman, I do not understand it. I have lived a good deal out of the world, and am, therefore, perhaps; more astonished than I ought to be
Mr Dale, I feel for you
Feel for me! What is to become of my girl? And do you suppose that I will let this other marriage go on; that I will not tell the De Courcys, and all the world at large, what sort of a man this is -- that I will not get at him to punish him? Does he think that I will put up with this
I do not know what he thinks; I must only beg that you will not mix me up in the matter -- as though I were a participator in his offence
Will you tell him from me that I desire to see him
I do not think that that would do any good
Never mind, sir; you have brought me his message; will you have the goodness now to take back mine to him
Do you mean at once -- this evening -- now
Yes, at once -- this evening -- now -- this minute
Ah; he has left the club; he is not here now; he went when I came to you
Then he is a coward as well as a scoundrel
He is a coward as well as a scoundrel. Will you have the kindness to tell your friend from me that he is a coward and a scoundrel -- and a liar, sir
If it be so, Miss Dale is well quit of her engagement
That is your consolation, is it? That may be all very well nowadays; but when I was a young man, I would sooner have burnt out my tongue than have spoken in such a way on such a subject. I would, indeed. Good-night, Mr Pratt. Pray make your friend understand that he has not yet seen the last of the Dales; although, as you hint, the ladies of that family will no doubt have learned that he is not fit to associate with them
I would not have done it
for all the beauty, and all the wealth, and all the rank that ever were owned by a woman
Cross-grained old harridan
Look what that aunt of yours has written to me
You don't mean to say you believe it
I don't think it will be safe to disregard it
What! you think it possible that your friend is doing as she says
It is certainly possible. He was angry when he found that Lily had no fortune
Heavens, Bernard And you can speak of it in that way
I don't say that it is true; but I think we should look to it. I will go to Courcy Castle and learn the truth
The countess, I am sure, will not contradict it, if you will see her
You don't know exactly how far it went, do you
No; yes -- not exactly, that is
I suppose he did say something about marriage to the girl
Yes, I'm afraid he did
Dear, dear! It's very unfortunate. What sort of people are those Dales? I suppose he talked to you about them
No, he didn't; not very much. I daresay she is an artful, sly thing! It's a great pity men should go on in such a way
Yes, it is
And I do suppose that in this case the blame has been more with him than with her. It's only right I should tell you that
But what can I do
I don't say you can do anything; but it's as well you should know
But I don't know, and you don't know; and I can't see that there is any use talking about it now. I knew him a long while before she did, and if she has allowed him to make a fool of her, it isn't my fault
Nobody says it is, my dear
But you seem to preach to me about it. What can I do for the girl? The fact is, he don't care for her a bit, and never did
Then he shouldn't have told her that he did
That's all very well, Amelia; but people don't always do exactly all that they ought to do. I suppose Mr Crosbie isn't the first man that has proposed to two ladies. I dare say it was wrong, but I can't help it. As to Mr Dale coming here with a tale of his niece's wrongs, I think it very absurd -- very absurd indeed. It makes it look as though there had been a scheme to catch Mr Crosbie, and it's my belief that there was such a scheme
I only hope that there'll be no quarrel
Men don't fight duels nowadays, Amelia
But do you remember what Frank Gresham did to Mr Moffat when he behaved so badly to poor Augusta
Mr Crosbie isn't afraid of that kind of thing. And I always thought that Frank was very wrong -- very wrong indeed. What's the good of two men beating each other in the street? "Well; I'm sure I hope there'll be no quarrel. But I own I don't like the look of it. You see the uncle must have known all about it, and have consented to the marriage, or he would not have come here
I don't see that it can make any difference to me, Amelia
No, my dear, I don't see that it can. We shall be up in town soon, and I will see as much as possible of Mr Crosbie. The marriage, I hope, will take place soon
He talks of February
Don't put it off, Alley, whatever you do. There are so many slips, you know, in these things
I'm not a bit afraid of that
I dare say not; and you may be sure that we will keep an eye on him. Mortimer will get him up to dine with us as often as possible, and as his leave of absence is all over, he can't get out of town. He's to be here at Christmas, isn't he
Of course he is
Mind you keep him to that. And as to these Dales, I would be very careful, if I were you, not to say anything unkind of them to any one. It sounds badly in your position
Good-bye
You have been so good to come, and we have enjoyed it so much
I thank you very much. Good-morning
Pray remember me to your brother. I wish we could have seen him; I hope he has not been hurt by the -- the bull
What a fool I have been to have that woman in the house
Indeed you have
Oh, mamma, what shall we do
Do
why should we do anything? She has heard the truth for once in her life
Dear Lady Dumbello, what will you think of us
I think she's very nice
I can't quite agree with you there
But I do believe she means to do her best. She is very charitable, and all that sort of thing
I'm sure I don't know
I asked her for a subscription to the mission for putting down the Papists in the west of Ireland, and she refused me point-blank
Now, my dear, if you're quite ready
Have you observed
that she has not held her head up since Mr Palliser went away
Indeed I have
As for poor Dumbello, he's the blindest creature I ever saw in my life
We shall hear of something before next May
but for all that she'll never be Duchess of Omnium
I wonder what your mamma will say of me when I go away tomorrow
She won't say that you are going to run away with any gentleman
At any rate not with the earl
Ha, ha, ha! Well, we are all very good-natured, are we not? The best is that it means nothing
When your father speaks to me
he puts me in such a shiver that I cannot open my mouth to answer him
You should stand up to him
He can't hurt you, you know. Your money's your own; and if I'm ever to be the heir, it won't be by his doing
But he gnashes his teeth at me
You shouldn't care for that, if he don't bite. He used to gnash them at me; and when I had to ask him for money I didn't like it; but now I don't mind him a bit. He threw the peerage at me one day, but it didn't go within a yard of my head
If he throws anything at me, George, I shall drop upon the spot
I sometimes feel
that I am going mad before I can get out
Don't you wish we could get Sir Omicron to order him to the German Spas
She gets it worse than I do
and minds it a deal more. I can give warning, and she can't
Better? No, I ain't better
I never shall be better while you keep that cook in the kitchin
But where are we to get another if we send him away
It's not my business to find cooks. I don't know where you're to get one. It's my belief you won't have a cook at all before long. It seems you have got two extra men into the house without telling me
We must have servants, you know, when there is company. It wouldn't do to have Lady Dumbello here, and no one to wait on her
Who asked Lady Dumbello? I didn't
I'm sure, my dear, you liked having her here
Lady Dumbello
Look at that letter from Porlock
I sometimes think that he is the greatest rascal with whom I ever had occasion to concern myself
Live
And so you think it proper that he should write such a letter as that to his father
It is all very unfortunate
I don't know where the money's to come from. As for him, if he were starving, it would serve him right. He's a disgrace to the name and the family. From all I hear, he won't live long
What way am I to talk of it? If I say that he's my greatest comfort, and living as becomes a nobleman, and is a fine healthy man of his age, with a good wife and a lot of legitimate children, will that make you believe it? Women are such fools. Nothing that I say will make him worse than he is
But he may reform
Reform! He's over forty, and when I last saw him he looked nearly sixty. There -- you may answer his letter; I won't
And about the money
Why doesn't he write to Gazebee about his dirty money? Why does he trouble me? I haven't got his money. Ask Gazebee about his money. I won't trouble myself about it
How long is George going to remain here with that woman
I'm sure she is very harmless
I always think when I see her that I'm sitting down to dinner with my own housemaid. I never saw such a woman. How he can put up with it! But I don't suppose he cares for anything
It has made him very steady
Steady
And as she will be confined before long it may be as well that she should remain here. If Porlock doesn't marry, you know
D'ye hear
Yes; of course I hear. I was only thinking you wouldn't wish me to turn them out, just as her confinement is coming on
I know what that means. Then they'd never go. I won't have it; and if you don't tell them I will
Did you know
that a man had been here named Dale, calling on somebody in this house
Then why did you keep it from me
It was a matter of no moment. He came to see Lady Julia de Guest
Yes; but he came about that man Crosbie
I suppose he did
Why have you let that girl be such a fool? You'll find he'll play her some knave's trick
Oh dear, no
And why should she want to marry such a man as that
He's quite a gentleman, you know, and very much thought of in the world. It won't be at all bad for her, poor thing. It is so very hard for a girl to get married nowadays without money
And so they're to take up with anybody. As far as I can see, this is a worse affair than that of Amelia
Amelia has done very well, my dear
Oh, if you call it doing well for your girls, I don't. I call it doing uncommon badly; about as bad as they well can do. But it's your affair. I have never meddled with them, and don't intend to do it now
I really think she'll be happy, and she is devotedly attached to the young man
Devotedly attached to the young man
It makes me sick to hear people talk in that way. She wants to get married, and she's a fool for her pains -- I can't help that; only remember that I'll have no nonsense here about that other girl. If he gives me trouble of that sort, by I'll be the death of him. When is the marriage to be? "They talk of February
I won't have any tomfoolery and expense. If she chooses to marry a clerk in an office, she shall marry him as clerks are married
He'll be the secretary before that, De Courcy
What difference does that make? Secretary, indeed! What sort of men do you suppose secretaries are? A beggar that came from nobody knows where! I won't have any tomfoolery -- d'ye hear
Very many do marry commoners
Oh, yes, of course. It makes a difference, you know, when a man has a fortune
I'm afraid he does not think much of his religious duties. I'm told that young men of that sort seldom do
I don't say you're wrong
By no means. Indeed I think less of it now than I did when Amelia did the same thing. I shouldn't do it myself, that's all
Of course you won't be rich, my dear; but I really think you'll do very well. Mr Crosbie may be received anywhere, and you never need be ashamed of him
I wish he could keep a carriage for you, but perhaps that will come some day
He will explain it
I really can't undertake to say, Miss Bell, where the master's gone to. Its not likely the master'd tell me where he was going to; not unless it was about seeds, or the likes of that
He has gone very suddenly
Well, miss, I've nothing to say to that. And why shouldn't he go sudden if he likes? I only know he had his gig, and went to the station. If you was to bury me alive I couldn't tell you more
I should like to try
He is such a cross old thing. I wonder whether Bernard has gone with my uncle
He is in London, I know
I hope he'll call on Mr Crosbie
I shall be angry with him if he's not a good correspondent
No, mamma, you mustn't be angry with him. I won't let you be angry with him. Please to remember he's my lover and not yours
But I can see you when you watch for the postman
I won't watch for the postman any more if it makes you have bad thoughts about him. Yes, they are bad thoughts. I won't have you think that he doesn't do everything that is right
Thank you, Jane
I will write to you at length tomorrow. This is my first day in London, and I have been so driven about that I cannot write
Ah
if he knew how I hunger and thirst after his love
I know it is all right
He does not think of these things as I do. He had to write at the last moment -- as he was leaving his office
What does he say, Lily
What would you give to know
I wouldn't give twopence for the whole of it
When you get anybody to write to you letters, I wonder whether you'll show them to everybody
But if there's any special London news, I suppose we might hear it
But suppose there's no special London news, mamma. The poor man had only been in town one day, you know: and there never is any news at this time of the year
Had he seen Uncle Christopher
I don't think he had; but he doesn't say. We shall get all the news from him when he comes. He cares much more about London news than Adolphus does
Mamma
I hope you and I are not to be divided when I go to live in London
We shall never be divided in heart, my love
Ah, but that will not be enough for happiness, though perhaps enough to prevent absolute unhappiness. I shall want to see you, touch you, and pet you as I do now
You will have some one else to caress and pet -- perhaps many others
Do you mean to say that you are going to throw me off, mamma
God forbid, my darling. It is not mothers that throw off their children. What shall I have left when you and Bell are gone from me
But we will never be gone. That's what I mean. We are to be just the same to you always, even though we are married. I must have my right to be here as much as I have it now; and, in return, you shall have your right to be there. His house must be a home to you -- not a cold place which you may visit now and again, with your best clothes on. You know what I mean, when I say that we must not be divided
But Lily
Well, mamma
I have no doubt we shall be happy together -- you and I
But you were going to say more than that
Only this -- that your house will be his house, and will be full without me. A daughter's marriage is always a painful parting
Is it, mamma
Not that I would have it otherwise than it is. Do not think that I would wish to keep you at home with me. Of course you will both marry and leave me. I hope that he to whom you are going to devote yourself may be spared to love you and protect you
Mamma, mamma, I wish I was not going from you
No, Lily; do not say that. I should not be contented with life if I did not see both my girls married. I think that it is the only lot which can give to a woman perfect content and satisfaction. I would have you both married. I should be the most selfish being alive if I wished otherwise
Bell will settle herself near you, and then you will see more of her and love her better than you do me
I shall not love her better
I wish she would marry some London man, and then you would come with us, and be near to us. Do you know, mamma I sometimes think you don't like this place here
Your uncle has been very kind to give it to us
I know he has; and we have been very happy here. But if Bell should leave you
Then should I go also. Your uncle has been very kind, but I sometimes feel that his kindness is a burden which I should not be strong enough to bear solely on my own shoulders. And what should keep me here, then
Bell
I wonder why Dr Crofts never comes to see us now
It isn't a month since he was here, at our party
A month! But there was a time when he made some pretext for being here every other day
Yes, when mamma was ill
Ay, and since mamma was well, too. But I suppose I must not break the promise you made me give you. He's not to be talked about even yet, is he
I didn't say he was not to be talked about. You know what I meant, Lily; and what I meant then, I mean now
And how long will it be before you mean something else? I do hope it will come some day -- I do indeed
It never will, Lily. I once fancied that I cared for Dr Crofts, but it was only fancy. I know it, because
I wish he would come and ask you himself
He will never do so. He would never ask such a question without encouragement, and I shall give him none. Nor will he ever think of marrying till he can do so without -- without what he thinks to be imprudence as regards money. He has courage enough to be poor himself without unhappiness, but he has not courage to endure poverty with a wife. I know well what his feelings are
Well, we shall see
I shouldn't wonder if you were married first now, Bell. For my part I'm quite prepared to wait for three years
What have you heard
Have you seen him, sir
No, he has not dared to see me
Then it is true? "True?-- yes, it is all true. Why did you bring the scoundrel here? It has been your fault
No, sir; I must contradict that. I did not know him for a scoundrel
But it was your duty to have known him before you brought him here among them. Poor girl! how is she to be told
Then she does not know it
I fear not. Have you seen them? "I saw them yesterday, and she did not know it then; she may have heard it today
I don't think so. I believe he has been too great a coward to write to her. A coward indeed! How can any man find the courage to write such a letter as that
The coward escaped me while I was talking to the man he sent down
It was a concerted plan, and I think he was right. I should have brained him in the hall of the club
His apology
I have it in my pocket. Poor reptile; wretched worm of a man! I cannot understand it. On my honour, Bernard, I do not understand it. I think men are changed since I knew much of them. It would have been impossible for me to write such a letter as that
The gentleman had the goodness to assure me that no good could come from such a meeting. 'You mean,' I answered, that I cannot touch pitch and not be defiled!' He acknowledged that the man was pitch. Indeed, he could not say a word for his friend
I know Pratt. He is a gentleman. I am sure he would not excuse him
Excuse him! How could any one excuse him? Words could not be found to excuse him
On my honour, Bernard, I can hardly yet bring myself to believe it. It is so new to me. It makes me feel that the world is changed, and that it is no longer worth a man's while to live in it
And he is engaged to this other girl? "Oh, yes; with the full consent of the family. It is all arranged, and the settlements, no doubt, in the lawyer's hands by this time. He must have gone away from here determined to throw her over. Indeed, I don't suppose he ever meant to marry her. He was just passing away his time here in the country
He meant it up to the time of his leaving
I don't think it. Had he found me able and willing to give her a fortune he might, perhaps, have married her. But I don't think he meant it for a moment after I told him that she would have nothing. Well, here we are. I may truly say that I never before came back to my own house with so sore a heart
What am I to say to them in the morning
How am I to do it? And if I tell the mother, how is she to tell her child
Do you think that he has given no intimation of his purpose
As far as I can tell, none. That man Pratt knew that he had not done so yesterday afternoon. I asked him what were the intentions of his blackguard friend, and he said that he did not know -- that Crosbie would probably have written to me. Then he brought me this letter. There it is
read it and let me have it back. He thinks probably that the trouble is now over as far as he is concerned
I can't stand this kind of thing
If you mean me to take it, you must write it at once
I know that I can have no excuse to make to you -- or to her. But, circumstanced as I now am, the truth is the best. I feel that I should not make Miss Dale happy; and, therefore, as an honest man, I think I best do my duty by relinquishing the honour which she and you had proposed for me
As an honest man
On my honour, Bernard, as a gentleman, I do not understand it. I cannot believe it possible that the man who wrote that letter was sitting the other day as a guest at my table
What are we to do to him
Treat him as you would a rat. Throw your stick at him, if he comes under your feet; but beware, above all things, that he does not get into your house. That is too late for us now
There must be more than that, uncle
I don't know what more. There are deeds for committing which a man is doubly damned, because he has screened himself from overt punishment by the nature of his own villany. We have to remember Lily's name, and do what may best tend to her comfort. Poor girl! poor girl
Bernard
let my sister-in-law know early tomorrow that I will see her here, if she will be good enough to come to me after breakfast. Do not have anything else said at the Small House. It may be that he has written today
I shall see you in the morning, nearly as soon as you get this
but I must be the first to congratulate you on the acquisition of my old shoes. They will be very easy in the wearing to you, though they pinched my corns a little at first. I dare say they want new soling, and perhaps they are a little down at the heels; but you will find some excellent cobbler to make them all right, and will give them a grace in the wearing which they have sadly lacked since they came into my possession. I wish you much joy with them
I suppose it's all right
My time is gone by, I know. I married too early to be able to wear a good coat when I was young, and I never was acquainted with any lords or lords' families
Tact
Tact. Tact. Tact
Crosbie
I congratulate you with all my heart. I do, indeed. You have got the step early in life, and you deserve it thoroughly -- much better than I did when I was appointed to the same office
Oh, no
But I say, Oh, yes. We are deuced lucky to have such a man, and so I told the commissioners
I'm sure I'm very much obliged to you
I've known it all along -- before you left even. Sir Raffle Buffle had told me he was to go to the Income-tax Office. The chair is two thousand there, you know; and I had been promised the first seat at the Board
Ah -- I wish I'd known
You are much better as you are
There's no pleasure like a surprise! Besides, one knows a thing of that kind, and yet doesn't know it. I don't mind saying now that I knew it -- swearing that I knew it -- but I wouldn't have said so to a living being the day before yesterday. There are such slips between the cups and the lips. Suppose Sir Raffle had not gone to the Income Tax
Exactly so
But it's all right now. Indeed I sat at the Board yesterday, though I signed the letter afterwards. I'm not sure that I don't lose more than I gain
What! with three hundred a year more and less work
Ah, but look at the interest of the thing. The secretary sees everything and knows everything. But I'm getting old, and, as you say, the lighter work will suit me. By-the-by, will you come down to Putney tomorrow? Mrs Butterwell will be delighted to see the new secretary. There's nobody in town now, so you can have no ground for refusing
And indeed
he was not his own master just at present
By-the-by -- of course not. I had quite forgotten to congratulate you on that head. So you're going to be married? Well; I'm very glad, and hope you'll be as lucky as I have been
Thank you
A young lady from near Guestwick, isn't it; or somewhere in those parts
N-no
The lady comes from Barsetshire
Why, I heard the name. Isn't she a Bell, or Tait, or Ball, or some such name as that
No
Her name is De Courcy
One of the earl's daughters
Yes
Oh. I beg your pardon. I'd heard wrong. You're going to be allied to a very noble family, and I am heartily glad to hear of your success in life
Well; we shall be sitting at two, you know, and of course you'll come to us. If you're at leisure before that I'll make over what papers I have to you. I've not been a Lord Eldon in my office, and they won't break your back
Don't tell me, Butterwell
Don't tell me. I know what men are. I've seen the world. I've been looking at things with my eyes open. I knew what he was doing
old Opt
Wish you joy, Crosbie
Thank ye, Sir Raffle
Mr Crosbie, I congratulate you most sincerely
Your promotion has been the result altogether of your own merit. You have been selected for the high office which you are now called upon to fill solely because it has been thought that you are the most fit man to perform the onerous duties attached to it. Hum-hum-ha. As, regards my share in the recommendation which we found ourselves bound to submit to the Treasury, I must say that I never felt less hesitation in my life, and I believe I may declare as much as regards the other members of the Board
Indeed you may, as far as I am concerned
I told the Chancellor of the Exchequer
that unless he had some first-rate man to send from elsewhere I could name a fitting candidate. 'Sir Raffle,' he said, 'I mean to keep it in the office, and therefore shall be glad of your opinion.' 'In that case, Mr Chancellor,' said I, 'Mr Crosbie must be the man.' 'Mr Crosbie shall be the man,' said the Chancellor. And Mr Crosbie is the man
Your friend Sark spoke to Lord Brock about it
You should thank Lord Sark
Had as much to do with it as if my footman had spoken
I am very much obliged to the Board for their good opinion
I am obliged to Lord Sark as well-and also to your footman, Sir Raffle, if, as you seem to say, he has interested himself in my favour
I didn't say anything of the kind
I thought it right to make you understand that it was my opinion, given, of course, officially, which prevailed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Well, gentlemen, as I shall be wanted in the city, I will say good-morning to you. Is my carriage ready, Boggs
As to the duties of your new office
you will find yourself quite familiar with them
Indeed he will
And I am quite sure that you will perform them with equal credit to yourself, satisfaction to the department, and advantage to the public. We shall always be glad to have your opinion on any subject of importance that may come before us; and as regards the internal discipline of the office, we feel that we may leave it safely in your hands. In any matter of importance you will, of course, consult us, and I feel very confident that we shall go on together with great comfort and with mutual confidence
I never saw a man so little elated by good fortune in my life
Ah, he's got something on his mind
If that's the case, it's no wonder he shouldn't be elated
I will do it at home to-night
I might as well go to an hotel for the night
and then I can learn how things are going on from Cradell at the office
Who's at home
There's missus
and Miss Spruce, and Mrs Lupex. He's away somewhere, in his tantrums again; and there's Mr
Is Miss Roper here
Oh, yes! Miss Mealyer's here
She was in the dining-room just now, putting out the table. Miss Mealyer
She ain't there, Mr Eames; but you'll see her in the drawenroom
And it's she'll be glad to see you back again, Mr Eames
Here's yer 'ot water, Mr Eames
and dinner'll be on the table in ten minutes. Mr Cradell is come in, and so is missus's son
Under all the circumstances perhaps it will be better for us to be apart
A lady can't make herself too safe; can she, Mrs Roper? There's no danger between you and me, is there, Mr Eames -- specially when Miss Amelia is opposite
I hope you've enjoyed yourself, Mr Eames, among the vernal beauties of the country
Very much, thank you
There's nothing like the country at this autumnal season of the year. As for myself, I've never been accustomed to remain in London after the breaking up of the beau monde. We've usually been to Broadstairs, which is a very charming place, with most elegant society, but now
I'd never wish to sleep out of London for my part
When a woman's got a house over her head, I don't think her mind's ever easy out of it
That's just what the snails say, Mrs Roper. And as for having a house of one's own, it's a very good thing, no doubt, sometimes; but that's according to circumstances. It has suited me lately to live in lodgings, but there's no knowing whether I mayn't fall lower than that yet, and have
And have to let them
I hope you'll be more lucky with your lodgers than I have been with some of mine. Jemima, hand the potatoes to Miss Spruce. Miss Spruce, do let me send you a little more gravy? There's plenty here, really
I hope I shall
But, as I was saying, Broadstairs is delightful. Were you ever at Broadstairs, Mr Cradell
Never, Mrs Lupex. I generally go abroad in my leave. One sees more of the world, you know. I was at Dieppe last June, and found that very delightful -- though rather lonely. I shall go to Ostend this year; only December is so late for Ostend. It was a deuced shame my getting December, wasn't it, Johnny
Yes, it was
I managed better
And what have you been doing, Mr Eames
Whatever it may have been, you've not been false to the cause of beauty, I'm sure
I haven't done anything particular
I've just been staying with my mother
We've been very social here, haven't we, Miss Amelia
Only now and then a cloud comes across the heavens, and the lights at the banquet are darkened
Well, Caudle, old fellow
Well, Johnny, my boy
What's the news at the office
Muggeridge has been playing the very mischief
We're going to put him into Coventry and not speak to him except officially. But to tell you the truth, my hands have been so full here at home, that I haven't thought much about the office. What am I to do about that woman? "Do about her? How do about her
Yes; what am I to do about her? How am I to manage with her? There's Lupex off again in one of his fits of jealousy
But it's not your fault, I suppose
Well; I can't just say. I am fond of her, and that's the long and the short of it; deuced fond of her
But, my dear Caudle, you know she's that man's wife
Oh, yes, I know all about it. I'm not going to defend myself. It's wrong, I know -- pleasant, but wrong. But what's a fellow to do? I suppose in strict morality I ought to leave the lodgings. But, by George, I don't see why a man's to be turned out in that way. And then I couldn't make a clean score with old mother Roper. But I say, old fellow, who gave you the gold chain
Well; it was an old family friend at Guestwick; or rather, I should say, a man who said he knew my father
Yes, there's a watch. It wasn't exactly that. There was some trouble about a bull. To tell the truth, it was Lord de Guest; the queerest fellow, Caudle, you ever met in your life; but such a trump. I've got to go and dine with him at Christmas
I wish I could find a lord in a field with a bull
You see
I'm not responsible for that man's ill-conduct
No; nobody says so. But people seem to think so. When he is by I hardly speak to her. She is thoughtless and giddy as women are, and takes my arm, and that kind of thing, you know. It makes him mad with rage, but upon my honour I don't think she means any harm
I don't suppose she does
Well; she may or she mayn't. I hope with all my heart she doesn't
And where is he now
This is between ourselves, you know; but she went to find him this afternoon. Unless he gives her money she can't stay here, nor, for the matter of that, will she be able to go away. If I mention something to you, you won't tell any one
Of course I won't
I wouldn't have it known to any one for the world. I've lent her seven pounds ten. It's that which makes me so short with mother Roper
Then I think you're a fool for your pains
Ah, that's so like you. I always said you'd no feeling of real romance. If I cared for a woman I'd give her the coat off my back
I'd do better than that
I'd give her the heart out of my body. I'd be chopped up alive for a girl I loved; but it shouldn't be for another man's wife
That's a matter of taste. But she's been to Lupex today at that house he goes to in Drury Lane. She had a terrible scene there. He was going to commit suicide in the middle of the street, and she declares that it all comes from jealousy. Think what a time I have of it -- standing always, as one may say, on gunpowder. He may turn up here any moment, you know. But, upon my word, for the life of me I cannot desert her. If I were to turn my back on her she wouldn't have a friend in the world. And how's L. D.? I'll tell you what it is -- you'll have some trouble with the divine Amelia
Shall I
By Jove, you will. But how's L. D. all this time
L. D. is engaged to be married to a man named Adolphus Crosbie
If you please, we will not say any more about her
Whew-w-w! That's what makes you so down in the mouth! L. D. going to marry Crosbie! Why, that's the man who is to be the new secretary at the General Committee Office. Old Huffle Scuffle, who was their chair, has come to us, you know. There's been a general move at the GC, and this Crosbie has got to be secretary. He's a lucky chap, isn't he
I don't know anything about his luck. He's one of those fellows that make me hate them the first time I look at them. I've a sort of a feeling that I shall live to kick him some day
That's the time, is it? Then I suppose Amelia will have it all her own way now
I'll tell you what, Caudle. I'd sooner get up through the trap-door, and throw myself off the roof into the area, than marry Amelia Roper
Have you and she had any conversation since you came back
Not a word
Then I tell you fairly you've got trouble before you. Amelia and Maria -- Mrs Lupex, I mean -- are as thick as thieves just at present, and they have been talking you over. Maria -- that is, Mrs Lupex -- lets it all out to me. You'll have to mind where you are, old fellow
By Jove, I don't know that a man was ever so circumstanced
She looks to me to protect her, and yet what can I do
She's so nervous, that unless she has some one to countenance her she becomes unwell
They'll expect you to take a cup of tea the first night
I'm in no humour for it
I'll tell you what, Cradell, I shall leave this place, and take rooms for myself somewhere. I'll never go into a lodging-house again
From Miss Mealyer
Miss Mealyer is in the back parlour all by herself
Are you not going to speak to me on the day of your return? It cannot be that you will leave the house without seeing me for a moment. I am in the back parlour
Miss Mealyer is there, sir; and all the rest on 'em's upstairs
Shut the door
I suppose you don't want the girl to hear all you've got to say to me
Well
Well, Mr Eames
Jemima gave me your note, and so I've come
And is this the way we meet
Oh, John, is it to be thus, after love such as ours
I don't know what you mean
If you are engaged to marry L. D., tell me so at once. Be a man, and speak out, sir
No
I am not engaged to marry the lady to whom you allude
On your honour
I won't have her spoken about. I'm not going to marry her, and that's enough
Do you think that I wish to speak of her? What can L. D. be to me as long as she is nothing to you? Oh, Johnny, why did you write me that heartless letter
Why did you write that cruel letter
Because I thought it best, Amelia. What's a man to do with ninety pound a year, you know
But your mother allows you twenty
And what's a man to do with a hundred and ten
Rising five pounds every year
Of course we should live here, with mamma, and you would just go on paying her as you do now. If your heart was right, Johnny, you wouldn't think so much about money. If you loved me -- as you said you did
Oh, Johnny
Gracious, what a beautiful watch you've got
Did you buy that
No; it was given to me
John Eames, did L. D. give it you
No, no, no
Oh, I beg your pardon
Perhaps it was your mother
No; it was a man. Never mind about the watch now
I wouldn't mind anything, Johnny, if you would tell me that you loved me again. Perhaps I oughtn't to ask you, and it isn't becoming in a lady; but how can I help it, when you know you've got my heart. Come upstairs and have tea with us now, won't you
It's from Miss Lily's gentleman
There's 'something up, or he wouldn't be writing to her mamma in this way
I must see the missus herself
Isn't mamma down yet
Bell
something has happened. Mamma has got a letter
Happened! What has happened? Is anybody ill? Who is the letter from
Stop, Bell
Do not go to her yet. I think it's from -- Adolphus
Oh, Lily, what do you mean
I don't know, dear. We'll wait a little longer. Don't look like that, Bell
You have frightened me so
I am frightened myself. He only sent me one line yesterday, and now he has sent nothing. If some misfortune should have happened to him! Mrs Crump brought down the letter herself to mamma, and that is so odd, you know
Are you sure it was from him
No; I have not spoken to her. I will go up to her now. Don't you come, Bell. Oh! Bell, do not look so unhappy
Mamma, may I come in
Oh! my child
I know it is from him, mamma. Tell me all at once
Give her the enclosed
if you do not now think it wrong to do so. I have left it open, that you may read it
I know you will curse me
and I deserve to be cursed. I know that I shall be punished for this, and I must bear my punishment. My worst punishment will be this -- that I never more shall hold up my head again
My only excuse is my conviction that I should never make her happy. She has been brought up as an angel, with pure thoughts, with holy hopes, with a belief in all that is good, and high, and noble. I have been surrounded through my whole life by things low, and mean, and ignoble. How could I live with her, or she with me? I know now that this is so; but my fault has been that I did not know it when I was there with her. I choose to tell you all
and therefore I let you know that I have engaged myself to marry another woman. Ah! I can foresee how bitter will be your feelings when you read this: but they will not be so bitter as mine while I write it. Yes; I am already engaged to one who will suit me, and whom I may suit. You will not expect me to speak ill of her who is to be near and dear to me. But she is one with whom I may mate myself without an inward conviction that I shall destroy all her happiness by doing so. Lilian
shall always have my prayers; and I trust that she may soon forget, in the love of an honest man, that she ever knew one so dishonest as -- Adolphus Crosbie
Tell me all at once
Lily
Lily, my child
Is it from him, mamma? May I read it? He cannot be
It is from Mr Crosbie
Is he ill, mamma? Tell me at once. If he is ill I will go to him
No, my darling, he is not ill. Not yet -- do not read it yet. Oh, Lily! It brings bad news; very bad news
Mamma, if he is not in danger, I can read it. Is it bad to him, or only bad to me
If you please, ma'am, Mr Bernard is below, and wants to speak to you
Mr Bernard! ask Miss Bell to see him
Miss Bell is with him, ma'am, but he says that he specially wants to speak to you
I cannot see him
Ask him what it is. Tell him I cannot come down just at present
Bernard
do you know of anything? Is there anything wrong about Mr Crosbie
It will kill her
My Lily, my darling Lily! It will surely kill her
Mamma
whatever it is, I must, of course, be made to know it. I begin to guess the truth. It will pain you to say it. Shall I read the letter
You shall read it, but I ought to tell you first. Oh, my child, my own one
Then tell me
But I know what it is. He has thought it all over while away from me, and he finds that it must not be as we have supposed. Before he went I offered to release him, and now he knows that he had better accept my offer. Is it so, mamma
He might have written it to me, myself
Mamma, we will go down to breakfast. He has sent nothing to me, then
There is a note. He bids me read it, but I have not opened it. It is here
Give it me
Lily
your mother will have told you all. Before you read these few words you will know that you have trusted one who was quite untrustworthy. I know that you will hate me. I cannot even ask you to forgive me. You will let me pray that you may yet be happy.-- A.C
I will not hate him, and I do forgive him
I may not write to him again, but you shall write and tell him so. Now we will go down to breakfast
You frighten me, Lily
Your very calmness frightens me
Dear mamma
You need not be frightened by my calmness. I know the truth well. I have been very unfortunate -- very. The brightest hopes of my life are all gone -- and I shall never again see him whom I love beyond all the world
Give it me, mamma
It has to be done sooner or later
Not now, Lily. I have told you all -- all that you need know at present
Yes; now, mamma
I will read it now, and there shall be an end
He has been very quick
Tell him, mamma
that I do forgive him, and I will not hate him. You will tell him that -- from me; will you not
You must, mamma; or, if you do not, I shall do so. Remember that I love him. You know what it is to have loved one single man. He has made me very unhappy; I hardly know yet how unhappy. But I have loved him, and do love him. I believe, in my heart, that he still loves me. Where this has been there must not be hatred and unforgiveness
I will pray that I may become able to forgive him
But you must write to him those words. Indeed you must, mamma! 'She bids me tell you that she has forgiven you, and will not hate you.' Promise me that
I can make no promise now, Lily. I will think about it, and endeavour to do my duty
Mamma
you must be very good to me now; and I must be very good to you. We shall be always together now. I must be your friend and counsellor; and be everything to you, more than ever. I must fall in love with you now
Bell
he has gone
Lily! Lily! Lily
It is no good pretending
I am only spoiling the things; but I will be better tomorrow. I'll go away and lie down by myself, mamma
I know what he has to tell me
but I might as well go. It will be necessary that we should speak to each other about it
Mary
I believe you know it all
Yes
You can read that
How was one to know that any man could be so wicked as that
And she has heard it
Is she able to bear it
Wonderfully! She has amazed me by her strength. It frightens me; for I know that a relapse must come. She has never sunk for a moment beneath it. For myself, I feel as though it were her strength that enables me to bear my share of it
Poor child
Poor child! What can we do for her? Would it be good for her to go away for a time? She is a sweet, good, lovely girl, and has deserved better than that. Sorrow and disappointment come to us all; but they are doubly heavy when they come so early
And what is to be his punishment
The scorn which men and women will feel for him; those, at least, whose esteem or scorn are matters of concern to any one. I know no other punishment. You would not have Lily's name brought before a tribunal of law
Certainly not that
And I will not have Bernard calling him out. Indeed, it would be for nothing; for in these days a man is not expected to fight duels
You cannot think that I would wish that
What punishment is there, then? I know of none. There are evils which a man may do, and no one can punish him. I know of nothing. I went up to London after him, but he continued to crawl out of my way. What can you do to a rat but keep clear of him
Would she like to go anywhere
She will be better at home
Poor thing. For a while she will wish to avoid going out
I suppose so
I'll tell you what, Mary; I don't understand it. On my honour I don't understand it. It is to me as wonderful as though I had caught the man picking my pence out of my pocket. I don't think any man in the position of a gentleman would have done such a thing when I was young. I don't think any man would have dared to do it. But now it seems that a man may act in that way and no harm come to him. He had a friend in London who came to me and talked about it as though it were some ordinary, everyday transaction of life. Yes; you may come in, Bernard. The poor child knows it all now
We always thought very much of him at his club
I don't know much about your London clubs nowadays
nor do I wish to do so if the society of that man can be endured after what he has now done
I don't suppose half-a-dozen men will ever know anything about it
Umph
Give her my best love
my very best love. If her old uncle can do anything for her she has only to let me know. She met the man in my house, and I feel that I owe her much. Bid her come and see me. It will be better for her than moping at home. And Mary
think of what I said to you about Bell
And he shall know it, too
Lily, dear Lily
turn your thoughts away from it for a while, if you can
They won't go away
My child
I am sorry for you. My heart bleeds for you
Uncle
do not mind it. Only do this for me -- do not talk about it -- I mean to me
No, no; I will not. That there should ever have been in my house so great a rascal
Uncle! uncle! I will not have that! I will not listen to a word against him from any human being -- not a word! Remember that
The Dales were ever constant
Ever constant
Mamma, let it all be as though it had never been
Ah, dear! if that were but possible
God forbid that it should be possible inwardly
But it is possible outwardly. I feel that you are more tender to me than you used to be, and that upsets me. If you would only scold me because I am idle, I should soon be better
I won't get up, Bell
I am ill -- I had better lie here out of the way. Don't make a fuss about it. I'm stupid and foolish, and that makes me ill
I know that I can bear it
and that I can bear it without lasting unhappiness. Of course I shall always love him, and must feel almost as you felt when you lost my father
You must promise never to be tired of me, mamma
Mothers do not often get tired of their children, whatever the children may do of their mothers
I'm not so sure of that when the children turn out old maids. And I mean to have a will of my own, too, mamma; and a way also, if it be possible. When Bell is married I shall consider it a partnership, and I shan't do what I'm told any longer
Forewarned will be forearmed
Exactly -- and I don't want to take you by surprise. For a year or two longer, till Bell is gone, I mean to be dutiful; but it would be very stupid for a person to be dutiful all their lives
Tell me at once, mamma
when you hear that the day is fixed for his marriage. Pray don't keep me in the dark
It is to be in February
But let me know the day. It must not be to me like ordinary days. But do not look unhappy, mamma; I am not going to make a fool of myself. I shan't steal off and appear in the church like a ghost
Believe me, mamma, that I am not unhappy
I shall never see him
if I did, I should not scruple to hit him on the head with my stick; but I should think ill of myself to go after him with such an object
There is an amount of rascality in it -- of low meanness, which I do not understand
He is right
Bernard is quite right. But when I was young I could not have stood it. In those days a gentleman might have a fellow out who had treated him as he has treated us. A man was satisfied in feeling that he had done something. I suppose the world is different nowadays
I shall be barred out of my club lest. I should meet him
but he will not be barred out
You'll have to do it, as I did
I didn't like it because of the family, but Lady Amelia told me that it must be so
You had better get your kitchen things at Tomkins'. They're all good, and he'll give you ten per cent. off if you pay him ready money -- which, of course, you will, you know
I must be absent again in February, of course
and therefore it is quite impossible that I should stay now beyond the Monday
We shall be all alone
and I hope you will have an opportunity of learning more of our ways than you have ever really been able to do as yet
You'll all come up and dine with us on Monday
Well, I think not
we are better, perhaps, as we are
I think you're wrong
I don't suppose that we shall have a very merry Christmas. You and the girls will hardly have that whether you eat your pudding here or at the Great House. But it will be better for us all to make the attempt. It's the right thing to do. That's the way I look at it
I'll ask Lily
Do, do. Give her my love, and tell her from me that, in spite of all that has come and gone, Christmas Day should still be to her a day of rejoicing. We'll dine about three, so that the servants can have the afternoon
Of course we'll go
why not? We always do. And we'll have blind-man's-buff with all the Boyces, as we had last year, if uncle will ask them up
Mrs Hearn
the subject is painful to me
Miss Lily
Miss Lily
I knew what he was from the first. Oh, dear! oh, dear! if I could have had him killed
Hopkins, how dare you
If you speak to me again in such a way, I will tell my uncle
I beg your pardon
I know how kind you are, and I love you for it
I'll go after him yet, and break the dirty neck of him
My dear Lily
you will think me cold if I do not say one word to you
No, I shall not
There are things which should never be talked about
Well, well; perhaps so
Look at that fellow
Isn't he like his sire? He was got by Lambkin, you know
Lambkin
Yes, Lambkin. The bull that we had the trouble with. He has just got his sire's back and fore-quarters. Don't you see
I dare say
It's very odd
but do you know, that bull has been as quiet since that day -- as quiet as -- as anything. I think it must have been my pocket-handkerchief
I dare say it was
or perhaps the flies
Flies
Do you suppose he isn't used to flies? Come away. I ordered dinner at seven, and it's past six now. My brother-in-law, Colonel Dale, is up in town, and he dines with us
You know the Dales down at Allington, of course
Oh, yes, I know them
But, perhaps, you never met the colonel
I don't think I ever did
He's a queer sort of fellow -- very well in his way, but he never does anything. He and my sister live at Torquay, and as far as I can find out, they neither of them have any occupation of any sort. He's come up to town now because we both had to meet our family lawyers and sign some papers, but he looks on the journey as a great hardship. As for me, I'm a year older than he is, but I wouldn't mind going up and down from Guestwick every day
It's looking after the bull that does it
By George! you're right, Master Johnny. My sister and Crofts may tell me what they like, but when a man's out in the open air for eight or nine hours every day, it doesn't much matter where he goes to sleep after that. This is Pawkins's -- capital good house, but not so good as it used to be while old Pawkins was alive. Show Mr Eames up into a bedroom to wash his hands
Mr Eames, I believe? I knew your father at Guestwick, a great many years ago
It's got very cold this afternoon
It's always cold in London
If you had to be here in August you wouldn't say so
God forbid
He keeps up the old house pretty well
It isn't like what it was thirty years ago, but then everything of that sort has got worse and worse
I suppose it has
I remember when old Pawkins had as good a glass of port as I've got at home -- or nearly. They can't get it now, you know
I never drink port
I seldom take anything after dinner, except a little negus
negus
By George
Dale
Nothing more
Come, Johnny, fill your glass
I have been filling my glass all the time
I'm glad you've found something to amuse you, for it has seemed to me that you and Dale haven't had much to say to each other. I've been listening all the time
You've been asleep
Then there's been some excuse for my holding my tongue
By-the-by, Dale, what do you think of that fellow Crosbie
Think of him
He ought to have every bone in his skin broken
So he ought
So he ought, my lord. He is the most abominable rascal that ever I met in my life. I wish I was Lily Dale's brother
I beg your pardon, sir
but I have known Mrs Dale and your nieces all my life
Oh, have you
Nevertheless it is, perhaps, as well not to make too free with a young lady's name. Not that I blame you in the least, Mr Eames
I should think not
I honour him for his feeling. Johnny, my boy, if ever I am unfortunate enough to meet that man, I shall tell him my mind, and I believe you will do the same
De Guest
I think I'll go upstairs; I always have a little arrowroot in my own room
I'll ring the bell for a candle
negus
I've no doubt it's all right
but I shouldn't like to drink negus myself, nor yet to have arrowroot up in my bedroom
I don't suppose there's any harm in it
Oh dear, no; I wonder what Pawkins says about him. But I suppose they have them of all sorts in an hotel
The waiter didn't seem to think much of it when he brought it
No, no. If he'd asked for senna and salts, the waiter wouldn't have showed any surprise. By-the-by, you touched him up about that poor girl
Did I, my lord? I didn't mean it
You see he's Bernard Dale's father, and the question is, whether Bernard shouldn't punish the fellow for what he has done. Somebody ought to do it. It isn't right that he should escape. Somebody ought to let Mr Crosbie know what a scoundrel he has made himself
I'd do it tomorrow, only I'm afraid
No, no, no
you are not the right person at all. What have you got to do with it? You've merely known them as family friends, but that's not enough
No, I suppose not
Perhaps it's best as it is
I don't know that any good would be got by knocking him over the head. And if we are to be Christians, I suppose we ought to be Christians
What sort of a Christian has he been
That's true enough; and if I was Bernard, I should be very apt to forget my Bible lessons about meekness
Do you know, my lord, I should think it the most Christian thing in the world to pitch into him; I should, indeed. There are some things for which a man ought to be beaten black and blue
So that he shouldn't do them again
Exactly. You might say it isn't Christian to hang a man
I'd always hang a murderer. It wasn't right to hang men for stealing sheep
Much better hang such a fellow as Crosbie
Well, I believe so. If any fellow wanted now to curry favour with the young lady, what an opportunity he'd have
I'm not so sure of that
I don't pretend to know much about girls
but I should think it would be so. I should fancy that nothing would please her so much as hearing that he had caught it, and that all the world knew that he'd caught it
If I thought so
I'd find him out tomorrow
Why so? what difference does it make to you
You don't mean to say that you're in love with Miss Lily Dale
I don't know much about being in love with her
But I'd go through fire and water for her, my lord. I knew her years before he had ever seen her, and have loved her a great deal better than he will ever love any one. When I heard that she had accepted him, I had half a mind to cut my own throat -- or else his
Highty tighty
It's very ridiculous, I know
and, of course, she would never have accepted me
I don't see that at all
I haven't a shilling in the world
Girls don't care much for that
And then a clerk in the Income-tax Office! It's such a poor thing
The other fellow was only a clerk in another office
Oh, yes
but his office is another kind of thing, and then he was a swell himself
By George, I don't see it
I don't wonder a bit at her accepting a fellow like that. I hated him the first moment I saw him; but that's no reason she should hate him. He had that sort of manner, you know. He was a swell, and girls like that kind of thing. I never felt angry with her, but I could have eaten him
Did you ever ask her to have you
No; how could I ask her, when I hadn't bread to give her
And you never told her that you were in love with her, I mean, and all that kind of thing
She knows it now
I went to say good-bye to her the other day when I thought she was going to be married. I could not help telling her then
But it seems to me, my dear fellow, that you ought to be very much obliged to Crosbie -- that is to say, if you've a mind to
I know what you mean, my lord. I am not a bit obliged to him. It's my belief that all this will about kill her. As to myself, if I thought she'd ever have me
I think I begin to understand it
and I'll give you a bit of advice. You come down and spend your Christmas with me at Guestwick
Oh, my lord
Never mind my-lording me, but do as I tell you. Lady Julia sent you a message, though I forgot all about it till now. She wants to thank you herself for what you did in the field
That's all nonsense, my lord
Very well; you can tell her so. You may take my word for this, too -- my sister hates Crosbie quite as much as you do. I think she'd pitch into him, as you call it, herself, if she knew how. You come down to Guestwick for the Christmas, and then go over to Allington and tell them all plainly what you mean
I couldn't say a word to her now
Say it to the squire, then. Go to him, and tell him what you mean -- holding your head up like a man. Don't talk to me about swells. The man who means honestly is the best swell I know. He's the only swell I recognise. Go to old Dale, and say you come from me -- from Guestwick Manor. Tell him that if he'll put a little stick under the pot to make it boil, I'll put a bigger one. He'll understand what that means
Oh, no, my lord
But I say, oh, yes
I'm very fond of that girl, and would do much for her. You ask Lady Julia if I didn't say so to her before I ever knew of your casting a sheep's-eye that way. And I've a sneaking kindness for you too, Master Johnny. Lord bless you, I knew your father as well as I ever knew any man; and to tell the truth, I believe I helped to ruin him. He held land of me, you know, and there can't be any doubt that he did ruin himself. He knew no more about a beast when he'd done, than -- than -- than that waiter. If he'd gone on to this day he wouldn't have been any wiser
You come down with me
and you'll find we'll make it all straight. I dare say you're right about not speaking to the girl just at present. But tell everything to the uncle, and then to the mother. And, above all things, never think that you're not good enough yourself. A man should never think that. My belief is that in life people will take you very much at your own reckoning. If you are made of dirt, like that fellow Crosbie, you'll be found out at last, no doubt. But then I don't think you are made of dirt
I hope not
And so do I. You can come down, I suppose, with me the day after tomorrow
I'm afraid not. I have had all my leave
Shall I write to old Buffle, and ask it as a favour
No
I shouldn't like that. But I'll see tomorrow, and then I'll let you know. I can go down by the mail train on Saturday, at any rate
That won't be comfortable. See and come with me if you can. Now, good-night, my dear fellow, and remember this -- when I say a thing I mean it. I think I may boast that I never yet went back from my word
I don't know what to say to you, my lord
Say nothing -- not a word more to me. But say to yourself that faint heart never won fair lady. Good-night, my dear boy, good-night. I dine out tomorrow, but you can call and let me know at about six
Oh, John, how late you are
Yes, I am very late
Did you hear that young Eames is staying at Guestwick Manor
At Guestwick Manor
Dear me! Do you hear that, Bell? There's promotion for Master Johnny
Don't you remember, mamma
that he helped his lordship in his trouble with the bull
I should not have thought that Lord de Guest was the man to show so much gratitude for so slight a favour
However, I'm going to dine there tomorrow
To meet young Eames
Yes -- especially to meet young Eames. At least, I've been very specially asked to come, and I've been told that he is to be there
And is Bernard going
Indeed I'm not
I shall come over and dine with you
My father has been up in town
He was with Lord de Guest at Pawkins's
Why didn't you go and see him
Well, I don't know. He did not seem to wish it. I shall go down to Torquay in February. I must be up in London you know, in a fortnight, for good
I want him to give up his profession altogether
It would be better, I think, for both of us that he should do so
Would it be wise at his time of life
and when he has been doing so well
I think it would be wise. If he were my son it would be thought better that he should live here upon the property, among the people who are to become his tenants, than remain up in London, or perhaps be sent to India. He has one profession as the heir of this place, and that, I think, should he enough
I should have but an idle life of it down here
That would be your own fault. But if you did as I would have you, your life would not be idle
But the fact is
that Bernard is not exactly the same as your son
Why not
I have even offered to settle the property on him if he will leave the service
You do not owe him so much as you would owe your son -- and, therefore, he does not owe you as much as he would owe his father
If you mean that I cannot constrain him, I know that well enough. As regards money, I have offered to do for him quite as much as any father would feel called upon to do for an only son
I hope you don't think me ungrateful
No, I do not; but I think you unmindful. I have nothing more to say about it, however -- not about that. If you should marry
If he should marry
it may well be that his wife would like a house of her own
Wouldn't she have this house
Isn't it big enough? I only want one room for myself, and I'd give up that if it were necessary
That's nonsense
It isn't nonsense
You'll be squire of Allington for the next twenty years
And as long as you are the squire, you'll be master of this house; at least, I hope so. I don't approve of monarchs abdicating in favour of young people
I don't think Uncle Christopher would look at all well like Charles the Fifth
I would always keep a cell for you, my darling, if I did
Mrs Hearn is dining at the vicarage, I suppose
Yes; she went in after church
I saw her go with Mrs Boyce
She told me she never would dine with them again after dark in winter
The last time she was there, the boy let the lamp blow out as she was going home, and she lost her way. The truth was, she was angry because Mr Boyce didn't go with her
She's always angry
She hardly speaks to me now. When she paid her rent the other day to Jolliffe, she said she hoped it would do me much good; as though she thought me a brute for taking it
So she does
She's very old, you know
I'd give her the house for nothing, if I were you, uncle
No, my dear; if you were me you would not. I should be very wrong to do so. Why should Mrs Hearn have her house for nothing, any more than her meat or her clothes? It would be much more reasonable were I to give her so much money into her hand yearly; but it would be wrong in me to do so, seeing that she is not an object of charity -- and it would be wrong in her to take it
And she wouldn't take it
I don't think she would. But if she did, I'm sure she would grumble because it wasn't double the amount. And if Mr Boyce had gone home with her, she would have grumbled because he walked too fast
She is very old
But, nevertheless, she ought to know better than to speak disparagingly of me to my servants. She should have more respect for herself
Of course you know much better than I do
Not at all
I don't pretend to know anything about it. But
Only think of Johnny Eames being at Guestwick Manor
I don't see why he shouldn't be there
I would rather it should be he than I, because Lady Julia is so grumpy
But asking your Uncle Christopher especially to meet him
There must be some reason for it
Very well, Johnny
Then I'll tell you what; I've been thinking of it. I'll ask Dale to come over to dinner on Tuesday; and if he'll come, I'll explain the whole matter to him myself. He's a man of business, and he'll understand. If he won't come, why then you must go over to Allington, and find him, if you can, on the Tuesday morning; or I'll go to him myself, which will be better. You mustn't keep me now, as I am ever so much too late
She has been very fortunate in her escape
very fortunate
But, Theodore, he must not speak to Miss Lilian Dale herself about it yet a while
No
not for a month or so
He will have a better chance if he can remain silent for six months
Bless my soul! somebody else will have picked her up before that
He can be as cross as an old stick when he likes it
and we must take care not to rub him the wrong way
I shan't know what to say to him when I come down
Just shake hands with him and don't say anything
I'll give him some port wine that ought to soften his heart
and then we'll see how he is in the evening
Certainly
I'm very glad you've come, Dale
I've something I want to say to you
I think I told you
that young John Eames is down here; but he goes back tomorrow, as they can't spare him at his office. He's a very good fellow -- as far as I am able to judge, an uncommonly good young man. I've taken a great fancy to him myself
As you know, Dale, I'm a very bad hand at talking, and therefore I won't beat about the bush in what I've got to say at present. Of course we've all heard of that scoundrel Crosbie, and the way he has treated your niece Lilian
He is a scoundrel -- an unmixed scoundrel. But the less we say about that the better. It is ill mentioning a girl's name in such a matter as that
But, my dear Dale, I must mention it at the present moment. Dear young child, I would do anything to comfort her! And I hope that something may be done to comfort her. 'Do you know that that young man was in love with her long before Crosbie ever saw her
What -- John Eames
Yes, John Eames. And I wish heartily for his sake that he had won her regard before she had met that rascal whom you had to stay down at your house
A man cannot help these things, De Guest
No, no, no! There are such men about the world, and it is impossible to know them at a glance. He was my nephew's friend, and I am not going to say that my nephew was in fault. But I wish -- I only say that I wish -- she had first known what are this young man's feelings towards her
But she might not have thought of him as you do
He is an uncommonly good-looking young fellow; straight made, broad in the chest, with a good, honest eye, and a young man's proper courage. He has never been taught to give himself airs like a dancing monkey; but I think he's all the better for that
But it's too late now, De Guest
No, no; that's just where it is. It mustn't be too late! That child is not to lose her whole life because a villain has played her false. Of course she'll suffer. Just at present it wouldn't do, I suppose, to talk to her about a new sweetheart. But, Dale, the time will come; the time will come -- the time always does come
It has never come to you and me
Yes, it has
We have retricked our beams in our own ways, and our lives have not been desolate. But for her -- you and her mother will look forward to see her married some day
I have not thought about it
But I want you to think about it. I want to interest you in this fellow's favour; and in doing so, I mean to be very open with you. I suppose you'll give her something
I don't know, I'm sure
Well, then, whether you do or not, I'll give him something
I shouldn't have ventured to meddle in the matter had I not intended to put myself in such a position with reference to him as would justify me in asking the question
If such a match can be made, it shall not be a bad marriage for your niece in a pecuniary point of view. I shall have pleasure in giving to him; but I shall have more pleasure if she can share what I give
She ought to be very much obliged to you
I think she would be if she knew young Eames. I hope the day may come when she will be so. I hope that you and I may see them happy together, and that you too may thank me for having assisted in making them so. Shall we go in to Lady Julia now
Half a moment
There are matters as to which I never find myself able to speak quickly, and this certainly seems to be one of them. If you will allow me I will think over what you have said, and then see you again
Certainly, certainly
But for your own part in the matter, for your great generosity and kind heart, I beg to offer you my warmest thanks
How do you do, sir
How do you do, Eames
Dale, I know you drink port
If you say you don't like that, I shall say you know nothing about it
Ah! that's the '20
I should rather think it is
No, my lord, it is not. I think it's uncommonly nice
Uncommonly nice! So is champagne, or ginger-beer, or lollipops -- for those who like them. Do you mean to tell me you can taste wine with half a pickled orange in your mouth
It'll come to him soon enough
Twenty port won't come to him when he is as old as we are
It is hard work
If you're under the line, they make a great row about it, send for you, and look at you as though you'd been robbing the bank; but they think nothing of keeping you till five
But how long do you have for lunch and reading the papers
Not ten minutes. We take a paper among twenty of us for half the day. That's exactly nine minutes to each; and as for lunch, we only have a biscuit dipped in ink
Dipped in ink
It comes to that, for you have to be writing while you munch it
I hear all about you
Sir Raffle Buffle is an old crony of mine
I don't suppose he ever heard my name as yet" said Johnny. "But do you really know him well, Lord de Guest
Haven't seen him these thirty years; but I did know him
We call him old Huffle Scuffle
Huffle Scuffle! Ha, ha, ha! He always was Huffle Scuffle; a noisy, pretentious, empty-headed fellow. But I oughtn't to say so before you, young man. Come, we'll go into the drawing-room
And what did he say
Well, he did not say much. And coming from him, that ought to be taken as a good sign. He is to think of it, and let me see him again. You hold your head up, Johnny, and remember that you shan't want a friend on your side. Faint heart never won fair lady
He is a damned blackguard
He ought to have his neck broken
I don't know about that
The present times have become so pretty behaved that corporal punishment seems to have gone out of fashion. I shouldn't care so much about that, if any other punishment had taken its place. But it seems to me that a blackguard such as Crosbie can escape now altogether unscathed
He hasn't escaped yet
Don't you go and put your finger in the pie and make a fool of yourself
Things were different when I was young
We shall have you down again soon, Mr John
Waiting for the up-train from Barchester, sir
They're always late
Now, sir, when you're quite at leisure
I'm not at all at leisure
and I'm not going to break my legs if I know it
Take your time, sir
So I mean
You confounded scoundrel
You confounded scoundrel
Con-founded scoundrel, rascal, blackguard
If you only knew what he's done
He is a con-founded rascal
You don't know what he's done
No, we don't
but we know what you have done. I say, Bushers, where's that gentleman? He'd better come along with us
We've got him here in custody, sir
The magistrates will be sitting at Paddington, now, sir -- or will be by the time we get there
Step into my room, Mr Crosbie
Stubbs, bring that man in with you
What's all this
Mr Crosbie, I am very sorry that you should have been exposed to such brutality on our platform
You don't know what he has done
He is the most confounded scoundrel living. He has broken
Do you know who he is, Mr Crosbie
Oh, yes
He is a clerk in the Income-tax Office, and his name is Eames. I believe you had better leave him to me
Income-tax Office -- Eames
We can't allow a row like that to take place on our platform and not notice it. I shall bring it before the directors. It's a most disgraceful affair, Mr Eames -- most disgraceful
That's your opinion
Yes, sir, it is
and I shall know how to represent the matter to your superiors, young man
You don't know all about it
and I don't suppose you ever will. I had made up my mind what I'd do the first time I saw that scoundrel there; and now I've done it. He'd have got much worse in the railway carriage, only there was a lady there
Mr Crosbie, I really think we had better take him before the magistrates
You haven't done with Mr Eames's insolence yet, I can tell you. All London shall hear of it, and shall know why. If you have any shame in you, you shall be ashamed to show your face
D --- the fellow
You guve it him tidy just at that last moment, sir. But, laws, sir, you should have let out at him at fust. What's the use of clawing a man's neck-collar
Oh, laws, Mr Crosbie
Yes, I know
I've had an accident and got a black eye. What's a good thing for it
Oh! an accident
They do say that a bit of raw beef is about the best thing. But then it must be held on constant all the morning
It is nothing at all serious, and affects only my appearance, so that I had better remain in for a day. I shall certainly be with you on Sunday. Don't let Gazebee trouble himself to come to me, as I shan't be at home after today
It certainly have gone down, Mr Crosbie; it certainly have
But the black won't go out of them all in a minute; it won't indeed. Couldn't you just stay in one more day
But will one day do it, Mrs Phillips
They mostly come with little red streaks across the black before they goes away
And that won't be till tomorrow
Not till the third day -- and then they wears themselves out, gradual. I never knew leeches do any good
It was, however, satisfactory to know
that Mr C -- had amply avenged himself, and had so flogged the young man in question, that he had been unable to stir from his bed since the occurrence
Boggs
just see if Mr Butterwell is in his room
Upon my word, that is serious
I don't think I would have come out if I had been you
Of course it's disagreeable
but it's better to put up with it. Fellows do tell such horrid lies if a man isn't seen for a day or two. I believe it's best to put a good face upon it
That's more than you can do just at present, eh, Crosbie
But how on earth did it happen? The paper says that you pretty well killed the fellow who did it
The paper lies, as papers always do. I didn't touch him at all
Didn't you, though? I should like to have had a poke at him after getting such a tap in the face as that
The policemen came, and all that sort of thing. One isn't allowed to fight it out in a row of that kind as one would have to do on Salisbury heath. Not that I mean to say that I could lick the fellow. How's a man to know whether he can or not
How, indeed, unless he gets a licking -- or gives it? But who was he, and what's this about his having been scorned by the noble family
Trash and lies, of course. He had never seen any of the De Courcy people
I suppose the truth is, it was about that other -- eh, Crosbie? I knew you'd find yourself in some trouble before you'd done
I don't know what it was about, or why he should have made such a brute of himself. You have heard about those people at Allington? "Oh, yes; I have heard about them
God knows, I didn't mean to say anything against them. They knew nothing about it
But the young fellow knew them? Ah, yes, I see all about it. He wants to step into your shoes. I can't say that he sets about it in a bad way. But what do you mean to do
Nothing
Nothing! Won't that look queer? I think I should have him before the magistrates
You see, Butterwell, I am bound to spare that girl's name. I know I have behaved badly
Well, yes; I fear you have
It can't be helped now
But as for that fellow who made such a brutal attack on me the other morning, he knows that he is safe behind her petticoats. I can do nothing which would not make some mention of her name necessary
Ah, yes; I see
It's very unfortunate; very. I don't know that I can do anything for you. Will you come before the Board today
Yes; of course I shall
Tact, tact, tact
alliance
Mr Crosbie is here today
Oh, indeed
They've made a monstrous show of him
I am very sorry to hear it. It's so-so-so- If it were one of the younger clerks, you know, we should tell him that it was discreditable to the department
If a man gets a blow in the eye, he can't help it, you know. He didn't do it himself, I suppose
I am well aware that he didn't do it himself
but I really think that, in his position, he should have kept himself out of any such encounter
He would have done so if he could, with all his heart
I don't suppose he liked being thrashed any better than I should
Nobody gives me a black eye
Nobody has as yet
I hope they never will
We have been very sorry to hear of this misfortune
Not half so sorry as I have been
It's an uncommon nuisance to have a black eye, and to go about looking like a prize-fighter
And like a prize-fighter that didn't win his battle, too
I don't know that there's much difference as to that, said Crosbie. "But the whole thing is a nuisance, and, if you please, we won't say anything more about it
H-m, ha, well; we'll go to business now, if you please
My dear fellow
this is a very nasty affair
Uncommonly nasty
Lady Amelia is quite unhappy
Not at all hurt; but disfigured, as you see
No, I didn't
I didn't beat him at all. You don't believe everything you read in the newspapers; do you
No, I don't believe everything. Of course I didn't believe about his having aspired to an alliance with Lady Alexandrina. That was untrue, of course
You shouldn't believe anything; except this -- that I have got a black eye
You certainly have got that. Lady Amelia thinks you would be more comfortable if you would come up to us this evening. You can't go out, of course; but Lady Amelia said, very good-naturedly, that you need not mind with her
Thank you, no; I'll come on Sunday
Of course Lady Alexandrina will be very anxious to hear from her sister; and Lady Amelia begged me very particularly to press you to come
Thank you, no; not today
Why not
Oh, simply because I shall be better at home
How can you be better at home? You can have anything that you want. Lady Amelia won't mind, you know
I won't trouble her this evening
Well, upon my word, I think you're wrong. All manner of stories will get down to Courcy Castle, and to the countess's ears; and you don't know what harm may come of it. Lady Amelia thinks she had better write and explain it; but she can't do so till she has heard something about it from you
Look here, Gazebee. I don't care one straw what story finds its way down to Courcy Castle
But if the earl were to hear anything, and be offended? "He may recover from his offence as he best likes
My dear fellow; that's talking wildly, you know
What on earth do you suppose the earl can do to me? Do you think I'm going to live in fear of Lord de Courcy all my life, because I'm going to marry his daughter? I shall write to Alexandrina myself today, and you can tell her sister so. I'll be up to dinner on Sunday, unless my face makes it altogether out of the question
And you won't come in time for church
Would you have me go to church with such a face as this
The fact is, my dear, that he's ashamed of himself, and therefore tries to put a bold face upon it. It was very foolish of him throwing himself in the way of that young man -- very; and so I shall tell him on Sunday. If he chooses to give himself airs to me, I shall make him understand that he is very wrong. He should remember now that the way in which he conducts himself is a matter of moment to all our family
Of course he should
Dear, dear, dear; this is very sad, isn't it, Adolphus
Well, it is sad, Amelia
It is sad, Amelia
But will you oblige me in one thing
What thing, Adolphus
Not to say a word more about it. The black eye is a bad thing, no doubt, and has troubled me much; but the sympathy of my friends has troubled me a great deal more. I had all the family commiseration from Gazebee on Friday, and if it is repeated again, I shall lie down and die
No, my hero
not because I've got a black eye. There isn't very much harm in that, and you'll have a great many before you leave school. But because the people will go on talking about it
But Aunt Dina on't like 'oo, if oo've got an ugly bad eye
But, Adolphus
that's all very well, you know -- and I'm sure I'm very sorry to cause you any annoyance -- but really one doesn't know how to pass over such a thing without speaking of it. I have had a letter from mamma
I hope Lady de Courcy is quite well
Quite well, thank you. But as a matter of course she is very anxious about this affair. She had read what has been said in the newspapers, and it may be necessary that Mortimer should take it up, as the family solicitor
Quite out of the question
I don't think I should advise any such step as that
Perhaps not; very likely not. But you cannot be surprised, Mortimer, that my mother under such circumstances should wish to know what are the facts of the case
Not at all surprised
Then once for all, I'll tell you the facts. As I got out, of the train a man I'd seen once before in my life made an attack upon me, and before the police came up, I got a blow in the face. Now you know all about it
Will you give Lady Amelia your arm
It's a very sad occurrence
and, I'm afraid, will cost my sister a great deal of vexation
I really don't think it's a joking matter
By-the-by, Mortimer, you'd better have some claret up
Adolphus shouldn't take anything that is heating
Thank you
I'll have some brandy-and-water, if Gazebee will give it me
Brandy-and-water
And what am I to say to my mother
Give her my kindest regards
Mamma, he calls me Dicksey. Am I Dicksey? I'll call oo old Cross and then Aunt Dina on't like 'oo
I wish you would not call the child nicknames, Adolphus. It seems as though you would wish to cast a slur upon the one which he bears
I should hardly think that he would feel disposed to do that
Hardly, indeed
It has never yet been disgraced in the annals of our country by being made into a nickname
And any such attempt is painful in my ears. I think something of my family, I can assure you, Adolphus, and so does my husband
A very great deal
So do I of mine
That's natural to all of us. One of my ancestors came over with William the Conqueror. I think he was one of the assistant cooks in the king's tent
A cook
Yes, my boy, a cook. That was the way most of our old families were made noble. They were cooks, or butlers to the kings -- or sometimes something worse
But your family isn't noble? "No -- I'll tell you how that was. The king wanted this cook to poison half-a-dozen of his officers who wished to have a way of their own; but the cook said, 'No, my Lord King; I am a cook, not an executioner.' So they sent him into the scullery, and when they called all the other servants barons and lords, they only called him Cookey. They've changed the name to Crosbie since that, by degrees
And you went in at him on the station
Yes I did. If I didn't do it there, where was I to do it? I'd said I would and therefore when I saw him I did it
And what's to come next
Well, he'll put it in the hands of a friend, of course; as I did with Fisher in that affair with Lupex. And, upon my word, Johnny, I shall have to do something of the kind again. His conduct last night was outrageous; would you believe
Oh, he's a fool
He's a fool you wouldn't like to meet when he's in one of his mad fits, I can tell you that. I absolutely had to sit up in my own bedroom all last night. Mother Roper told me that if I remained in the drawing-room she would feel herself obliged to have a policeman in the house. What could I do, you know? I made her have a fire for me of course
And then you went to bed
I waited ever so long, because I thought that Maria would want to see me. At last she sent me a note. Maria is so imprudent, you know. If he had found anything in her writing, it would have been terrible, you know -- quite terrible. And who can say whether Jemima mayn't tell? "And what did she say
Come; that's tellings, Master Johnny. I took very good care to take it with me to the office this morning, for fear of accidents
I shouldn't care so much
about that fellow Crosbie, going to a friend, as I should about his going to a police magistrate
He'll put it in a friend's hands, of course
And I suppose you'll naturally come to me. It's a deuced bore to a man in a public office, and all that kind of thing, of course. But I'm not the man to desert my friend. I'll stand by you, Johnny, my boy
Oh, thank you
I don't think that I shall want that
You must be ready with a friend, you know
an older sort of friend, you know
By Jove, old fellow, take care what you are about. Don't let them say of you that you show the white feather. Upon my honour, I'd sooner have an thing said of me than that. I would, indeed -- anything
I'm not afraid of that
There isn't much thought about white feathers nowadays -- not in the way of fighting duels
I hope you found the noble earl well
I found the noble earl pretty well, thank you
sir
It is such a privilege to be on visiting terms with the nobility
You ain't a girl any longer, and so you'd better not talk about it
My dear, you needn't be a brute to me before all Mrs Roper's company. If, led away by feelings which I will not now describe, I left my proper circles in marrying you, you need not before all the world teach me how much I have to regret
That's pleasant for a man over his meal, isn't it? said Lupex, appealing to Miss Spruce. I have plenty of that kind of thing and you can't think how I like it
Them whom God has joined together, let no man put asunder
As for me myself, I'm only an old woman
John
what is this I hear? I insist upon knowing. Are you going to fight a duel
Nonsense
But it is not nonsense. You don't know what my feelings will be, if I think that such a thing is going to happen. But then you are so hardhearted
I ain't hardhearted a bit, and I'm not going to fight a duel
But is it true that you beat Mr Crosbie at the station
It is true. I did beat him
Oh, John! not that I mean to say you were wrong, and indeed I honour you for the feeling. There can be nothing so dreadful as a young man's deceiving a young woman; and leaving her after he has won her heart -- particularly when she has had promise in plain words, or, perhaps, even in, black and white
And a poor girl, if she can't right herself by a breach of promise, doesn't know what to do, Does she, John
A girl who'd right herself that way wouldn't be worth having
I don't know about that. When a poor girl is in such a position she has to be said by her friends. I suppose, then, Miss Lily Dale won't bring a breach of promise against him
I cannot tell
what may be the intention of the lady of whom you speak. But from what I know of her friends, I should not think that she will be disgraced by such a proceeding
That may be all very well for Miss Lily Dale
Of course I know all about it
I hate all that sort of twaddle about childhood's friends, and you know I do. You'll make me swear that I'll never come into this room again
Johnny
So I will. The whole thing makes me sick. And as for that Mrs Lupex
If this is what you learn, John, by going to a lord's house, I think you had better stay at home with your own friends
Of course I had much better stay at home with my own friends. Here's Mrs Lupex, and at any rate I can't stand her
Sir Raffle Buffle has desired your presence, Mr Eames
My presence, Tupper! what for
Indeed I can't say, Mr Eames; but Sir Raffle Buffle has desired your presence in the Board-room
Mis-sent the Monarch's pouch! Mis-sent the Monarch's pouch
There's Johnny been sent for by old Scuffles
That's about his row with Crosbie
Can't it
Didn't young Outonites have to resign because of that row at the Cider Cellars though his cousin, Sir Constant Outonites, did all that he could for him
But he was regularly up the spout with accommodation bills
I tell you that I wouldn't be in Eames's shoes for a trifle. Crosbie is secretary at the Committee Office, where Scuffles was chairman before he came here; and of course they're as thick as thieves. I shouldn't wonder if they didn't make him go down and apologise
Johnny won't do that
Mr Eames
Isn't that Mr Eames
Yes
this is Eames
Ah
Come a little nearer, Mr Eames, will you
Let me see; in the second class, isn't, he? Ah! Do you know, Mr Eames, that I have received a letter from the secretary to the Directors of the Great Western Railway Company, detailing circumstances which -- if truly stated in that letter -- redound very much to your discredit
I did get into a row there yesterday, sir
Got into a row! It seems to me that you have got into a very serious row and that I must tell the Directors of the Great Western Railway Company that the law must be allowed to take its course
I shan't mind that, sir, in the least
Not mind that, sir
Not mind, sir, being dragged before the criminal tribunals of your country, and being punished as a felon -- or rather as a misdemeanour -- for an outrage committed on a public platform! Not mind it! What do you mean, sir
I mean, that I don't think the magistrate would say very much about it, sir. And I don't think Mr Crosbie would come forward
But Mr Crosbie must come forward, young man. Do you suppose that an outrage against the peace of the Metropolis is to go unpunished because he may not wish to pursue the matter? I'm afraid you must be very ignorant, young man
Perhaps I am
Very ignorant indeed -- very ignorant indeed. And are you aware, sir, that it would become a question, with the Commissioners of this Board whether you could be retained in the service of this department if you were publicly punished by a police magistrate for such a disgraceful outrage as that
Mr Eames is a very good clerk
Whether any ulterior consequences may still await the breach of the peace of which you have been guilty, I am not yet prepared to say
You may go now
He never touched me, Fisher; I don't think he ever tried; but, upon my honour, he never touched me
But, Johnny, it was bold in you to make up to Lord de Courcy's daughter
I never saw one of them in my life
He's going it altogether among the aristocracy now, said another; I suppose you wouldn't look at anybody under a viscount
Can I help what that thief of an editor puts into his paper? Flogged! Huffle Scuffle told me I was a felon, but that wasn't half so bad as this fellow
Indict him for a libel
Particularly for saying you wanted to marry a countess's daughter
I never heard such a scandal in my life
and then to say that the girl wouldn't look at you
Never mind about the newspaper
As he did get the licking and you didn't, you can afford to laugh at the newspaper
And you wouldn't write to the editor
No, no; certainly not. No, one thinks of defending himself to a newspaper except an ass -- unless it be some fellow who wants to have his name puffed. You may write what's as true as the gospel, but they'll know how to make fun of it
My dear Lord
I knew he'd do it if ever he got the opportunity
I'd have done it myself if I'd seen him. I do believe I would
What do you think
Johnny Eames has come across Crosbie, and given him a desperate beating
No
But he has though. I knew he would if he saw him
Beaten him! Actually beaten him
Sent him home to Lady Alexandrina with two black eyes
Two black eyes! What a young pickle! But did he get hurt himself
Not a scratch he says
And what'll they do to him
Nothing. Crosbie won't be fool enough to do anything. A man becomes an outlaw when he plays such a game as he has played. Anybody's hand may be raised against him with impunity. He can't show his face, you know. He can't come forward and answer questions as to what he has done. There are offences which the law can't touch but which outrage public feeling so strongly that any one may take upon himself the duty of punishing them. He has been thrashed, and that will stick to him till he dies
Do tell Johnny from me that I hope he didn't get hurt
I hope
I should have done the same at your age, under similar circumstances, and I'm very glad that he proved less difficult than the bull. I'm quite sure you didn't want any one to help you with Master Crosbie. As for that other person at Allington, if I understand such matters at all, I think she will forgive you
When you write to me again -- and don't be long first, begin your letter 'My dear Lord De Guest'-- that is the proper way
Have you been thinking again of what I was saying to you, Bell
Thinking of it, Bernard? Why should I think more of, it? I had hoped that you had forgotten it yourself
No
I am not so easy-hearted as that. I cannot look on such a thing as I would the purchase of a horse, which I could give up without sorrow if I found that the animal was too costly for my purse. I did not tell you that I loved you till I was sure of myself, and having made myself sure I cannot change at all
And yet you would have me change
Yes, of course I would. If your heart be free now, it must of course be changed before you come to love any man. Such change as that is to be looked for. But when you have loved, then it will not be easy to change you
But I have not
Then I have a right to hope. I have been hanging on here, Bell, longer than I ought to have done, because, I could not bring myself to leave you without speaking of this again. I did not wish to seem to you to be importunate
If you could only believe me in what I say
It is not that I do not believe. I am not a puppy or a fool to flatter myself that you must be in love with me. I believe you well enough. But still it is possible that your mind may alter
It is impossible
I do not know whether my uncle or your mother have spoken to you about this
Such speaking would have no effect
We have all been made very unhappy
And because she has been deceived by the man she did love, I am to make matters square by marrying a man I
Dear Bernard, you should not drive me to say words which will sound harsh to you
No words can be harsher than those which you have already spoken. But Bell, at any rate, you may listen to me
Nothing that my uncle can say, or think, or do can make any difference in this" said she. "You will think nothing, then, of the happiness of others
I would not marry a man I did not love, to ensure any amount of happiness to others -- at least I know I ought not to do so. But I do not believe I should ensure any one's happiness by this marriage. Certainly not yours
I will go away till next autumn
If you would give up your profession and remain here, she would not be so perverse
I cannot do that, sir. I cannot risk the well-being of my life on such a chance
Why should they not both marry
So I met John Eames at the manor
Ah, yes; and how did he get on there? I cannot conceive poor Johnny keeping holiday with the earl and his sister. How did he behave to them, and how did they behave to him
I can assure you he was very much at home there
Was he, indeed? Well, I hope it will do him good. He is, I'm sure a very good young man; only rather awkward
I didn't think him awkward at all. You'll find, Mary, that he'll do very well-a great deal better than his father did
I'm sure I hope he may
Mary
I am afraid there will be nothing to settle
What do you mean -- that you disapprove of it
By no means -- personally. I should approve of it very strongly. But that has nothing to do with the question
Yes, it has. I beg your pardon, but it must have, and should have a great deal to do with it. Of course, I am not saying that anybody should now ever be compelled to marry anybody
I hope not
I never said that they ought, and never thought so, But I do think that the wishes of all her family should have very great weight with a girl that has been well brought up
I don't know whether Bell has been well brought up; but in such a matter as this nobody's wishes would weigh a leather with her; and, indeed, I could not take upon myself even to express a wish. To you I can say that I should have been very happy if she could have regarded her cousin as you wish her to do
You mean that you are afraid to tell her so
I am afraid to do what I think is wrong, if you mean that
I don't think it would be wrong, and therefore I shall speak to her myself
You must do as you like about that, Mr Dale; I can't prevent you. I shall think you wrong to harass her on such a matter, and I fear also that her answer will not be satisfactory to you. If you choose to tell her your opinion, you must do so. Of course I shall think you wrong, that's all
May I go now
May you go? Of course you may go if you like it. If you think that I am intruding upon you in speaking to you of the welfare of your two girls, whom I endeavour to regard as my own daughters -- except in this, that I know they have never been taught to love me -- if you think that it is an interference on my part to show anxiety for their welfare, of course you may go
I did not mean to say anything to hurt you, Mr Dale
Hurt me! What does it signify whether I am hurt or not? I have no children of my own, and of course my only business in life is to provide for my nephews and nieces. I am an old fool if I expect that they are to love me in return, and if I venture to express a wish I am interfering and doing wrong I It is hard -- very hard. I know well that they have been brought up to dislike me, and yet I am endeavouring to do my duty by them
Mr Dale, that accusation has not been deserved. They have not been brought up to dislike you. I believe that they have both loved and respected you as their uncle; but such love and respect will not give you a right to dispose of their hands
Who wants to dispose of their hands
There are some things in which I think no uncle -- no parent -- should interfere, and of all such things this is the chief. If after that you may choose to tell her your wishes, of course you can do so
It will not be much good after you have set her against me
Mr Dale, you have no right to say such things to me, and you are very unjust in doing so. If you think that I have set my girls against you, it will be much better that we should leave Allington altogether. I have been placed in circumstances which have made it difficult for me to do my duty to my children; but I have endeavoured to do it, not regarding my own personal wishes. I am quite sure, however, that it would be wrong in me to keep them here, if I am to be told by you that I have taught them to regard you unfavourably. Indeed, I cannot suffer such a thing to be said to me
Is it not true
that in all that relates to the girls you have ever regarded me with suspicion
No, it is not true
Certainly not with suspicion
But as this matter has gone so far, I will explain what my real feelings have, been. In worldly matters you can do much for my girls, and have done much
And wish to do more
I am sure you do. But I cannot on that account give up my place as their only living parent. They are my children, and not yours. And even could I bring myself to allow you to act as their guardian and natural protector, they would not consent to such an arrangement. You cannot call that suspicion
I can call it jealousy
And should not a mother be jealous of her children's love
Perhaps it is well that you should have spoken out
The manner in which you accused me made it necessary
I did not intend to accuse you, and I do not do so now; but I think that you have been, and that you are, very hard on me -- very hard indeed. I have endeavoured to make your children, and yourself also, sharers with me in such prosperity as has been mine. I have striven to add to your comfort and to their happiness. I am most anxious to secure their future welfare. You would have been very wrong had you declined to accept this on their behalf; but I think that in return for it you need not have begrudged me the affection and obedience which generally follows from such good offices
Mr Dale, I have begrudged you nothing of this
I am hurt -- I am hurt
What you have said has, I have known, been the case all along. But though I had felt it to be so, I own that I am hurt by your open words
Because I have said that my own children must ever be my own
Ah, you have said more than that. You and the girls have been living here, close to me, for -- how many years is it now?-- and during all those years there has grown up for me no kindly feeling. Do you think that I cannot hear, and see, and feel? Do you suppose that I am a fool and do not know? As for yourself you would never enter this house if you did not feel yourself constrained to do so for the sake of appearances. I suppose it is all as it should be. Having no children of my own, I owe the duty of a parent to my nieces; but I have no right to expect from them in return either love, regard, or obedience. I know I am keeping you here against your will, Mary. I won't do so any longer
My brother
it may be that we have not thought as kindly of each other as we should have done
I have endeavoured
Let us endeavour once again -- both of us
What, begin again at near seventy! No, Mary, there is no more beginning again for me. All this shall make no difference to the girls. As long as I am here they shall have the house. If they marry, I will do for them what I can. I believe Bernard is much in earnest in his suit, and if Bell will listen to him, she shall still be welcomed here as mistress of Allington. What you have said shall make no difference -- but as to beginning again, it is simply impossible
It will be better for us that we shall leave it
Mamma
I really do believe that Jane has got scarlatina
Who is with her
Let us go at once
You do not want me to marry him, mamma; do you
Let us go at once
It is much easier said than done, my dear
Of course it is, mamma; else we shouldn't be here now. What I mean is this -- let us take some necessary first step at once. It is clear that my uncle thinks that our remaining here should give him some right over us. I do not say that he is wrong to think so. Perhaps it is natural. Perhaps, in accepting his kindness, we ought to submit ourselves to him. If that be so, it is a conclusive reason for our going
Could we not pay him rent for the house
as Mrs Hearn does? You would like to remain here, mamma, if you could do that
But we could not do that, Lily. We must choose for ourselves a smaller house than this, and one that is not burdened with the expense of a garden. Even if we paid but a moderate rent for this place, we should not have the means of living here
Not if we lived on toast and tea
But I should hardly wish you to live upon toast and tea and indeed I fancy that I should get tired of such a diet myself
Never, mamma
As for me, I confess to a longing after mutton chops; but I don't think you would ever want such vulgar things
At any rate, it would be impossible to remain here
Uncle Christopher would not take rent from mamma; and even if he did, we should not know how to go on with our other arrangements after such a change. No; we must give up the dear old Small House
It is a dear old house
After all, I do not know that I should be right to move
Yes, yes
Of course you will be right, mamma; there cannot be a doubt about it, mamma. If we can get any cottage, or even lodgings, that would be better than remaining here, now that we know what Uncle Christopher thinks of it
It will make him very unhappy
We should be robbing him, if we stayed here
wilfully robbing him of what he believes to be his just share of the bargain
If we do go away, that is what we must do
And we shall have to walk out with Mary Eames, instead of Susan Boyce
It won't make so much difference after all
In that respect we shall gain as much as we lose
And then it will be so nice to have the shops
Only we shall never have any money to buy anything
But we shall see more of the world
Lady Julia's carriage comes into town twice a week, and the Miss Gruffens drive about in great style. Upon the whole, we shall gain a great deal; only for the poor old garden. Mamma, I do think I shall break my heart at parting with Hopkins; and as to him, I shall be disappointed in mankind if he ever holds his head up again after I am gone
I suppose we must move at Lady-day
If so, had you not better let Uncle Christopher know at once
I don't think that we can find a house by that time
We can get in somewhere
There are plenty of lodgings in Guestwick, you know
If we are to go, let us go at once
We need not stand much upon the order of our going
Your uncle will be very much shocked
He cannot say that it is your fault
Had you not better write to my uncle
It will be very dreadful
but it will soon be over. It is not what he will say at the moment that I fear so much, as the bitter reproaches of his face when I shall meet him afterwards
Mr Dale
I have been thinking over what we were saying together yesterday, and I have come to a resolution which I know I ought to make known to you without a moment's delay
It will make me very happy
if it has any bearing on Bell's marriage with her cousin
Mr Dale, that is out of the question. I would not vex you by saying so if I were not certain of it; but I know my child so well
Then we must leave it to time, Mary
Yes, of course; but no time will suffice to make Bell change her mind. We will, however, leave the subject. And now, Mr Dale, I have to tell you of something else -- we have resolved to leave the Small House
Resolved on what
We have resolved to leave the Small House
Leave the Small House
and where on earth do you mean to go
We think we shall go into Guestwick
And why
Ah, that is so hard to explain. If you would only accept the fact as I tell it to you, and not ask for the reasons which have guided me
But that is out of the question, Mary. In such a matter as that I must ask your reasons; and I must tell you also that, in my opinion, you will not be doing your duty to your daughters in carrying out such an intention, unless your reasons are very strong indeed
But they are very strong
I cannot understand it
I cannot bring myself to believe that you are really in earnest. Are you not comfortable there
More comfortable than we have any right to be with our means
But I thought you always did very nicely with your money. You never get into debt
No; I never get into debt. It is not that, exactly. The fact is, Mr Dale, we have no right to live there without paying rent; but we could not afford to live there if we did pay rent
Who has talked about rent
Some one has been speaking falsehoods of me behind my back
Mary
I must insist upon getting to the bottom of this. As for your leaving the house, it is out of the question. Where can you be better off, or so well? As to going into Guestwick, what sort of life would there be for the girls? I put all that aside as out of the question; but I must know what has induced you to make such a proposition. Tell me honestly -- has any one spoken evil of me behind my back
Indeed, it is not so, Mr Dale
Then what is it
I know that if I attempt to tell you, you will be vexed, and will contradict me
Vexed I shall be, probably
And yet I cannot help it. Indeed, I am endeavouring to do what is right by you and by the children
Never mind me; your duty is to think of them
Of course it is; and in doing this they most cordially agree with me
Your duty is to them
but I do not mean by that that your duty is to let them act in any way that may best please them for the moment. I can understand that they should be run away with by some romantic nonsense, but I cannot understand it of you
The truth is this, Mr Dale. You think that my children owe to you that sort of obedience which is due to a parent, and as long as they remain here, accepting from your hands so large a part of their daily support, it is perhaps natural that you should think so. In this unhappy affair about Bell
I have never said anything of the kind
No; you have not said so. And I do not wish you to think that I make any complaint. But I feel that it is so, and they feel it. And, therefore, we have made up our minds to go away
Of all the propositions which I ever heard
it is the most unreasonable. It amounts to this, that you are too proud to live rent-free in a house which belongs to your husband's brother, and therefore you intend to subject yourself and your children to the great discomfort of a very straitened income. If you yourself only were concerned I should have no right to say anything; but I think myself bound to tell you that, as regards the girls, everybody that knows you will think you to have been very wrong. It is in the natural course of things that they should live in that house. The place has never been let. As far as I know, no rent has ever been paid for the house since it was built. It has always been given to some member of the family, who has been considered as having the best right to it. I have considered your footing there as firm as my own here. A quarrel between me and your children would be to me a great calamity, though, perhaps, they might be indifferent to it. But if there were such a quarrel it would afford no reason for their leaving that house. Let me beg you to think over the matter again
I know that you are very good to my girls
I will say nothing about that
He cannot bear to live with me
I suppose we shall
We must have the mason to the flues of that little grape-house, sir, before I can do any good with a fire there
Which grape-house
Why, the grape-house in the other garden, sir. It ought to have been done last year by rights
I can't put any fire in it, not to do any real good, till something's done. That's sure
Then don't put any fire in it
They'll never ripen; sir; not the whole year through
Then let them be unripe
There's something wrong amongst them
Have what is needful done to the flue
Yes, sir; very well, sir. It'll only be re-setting the bricks. Nothing more ain't needful, just this winter
Have the place put in perfect order while you're about it
Have you heard the news, my dear, from the Small House
What news
Mrs Dale and the girls are going to leave the Small House; they're going into Guestwick to live
Mrs Dale going away; nonsense
What on earth should take her into Guestwick? She doesn't pay a shilling of rent where she is
I can assure you it's true, my dear. I was with Mrs Hearn just now, and she had it direct from Mrs Dale's own lips. Mrs Hearn said she'd never been taken so much aback in her whole life. There's been some quarrel, you may be sure of that
Mrs Hearn says that Mrs Dale spoke ever so firmly about it, as though determined that nothing should change her
And did she say why
Well, not exactly. But Mrs Hearn said she could understand there had been words between her and the squire. It couldn't be anything else, you know. Probably it had something to do with that man, Crosbie
They'll be very pushed about money
That's just what I said to Mrs, Hearn. And those girls have never been used to anything like real economy. What's to become of them I don't know
You'll find they'll make it up before the time comes
I am afraid not
I'm afraid not. They are both so determined. I always thought that riding and giving the girls hats and habits was injurious. It was treating them as though they were the squire's daughters, and they were not the squire's daughters
It was almost the same thing
But now we see the difference
I often said that dear Mrs Dale was wrong, and it turns out that I was right. It will make no difference to me, as regards calling on them and that sort of thing
Of course it won't
Not but what there must be a difference, and a very great difference too. It will be a terrible come down for poor Lily, with the loss of her fine husband and all
I am sorry to hear that your sister-in-law is going to leave us
Who told you that
Well, I had it from Mrs Boyce, and I think Mrs Hearn told her
I wish Mrs Hearn would mind her own business, and not spread idle reports
There can be no doubt as to its being scarlatina
but the symptoms are all favourable
Could you not send Bell, into Guestwick -- to Mrs Eames's
If you will allow me to say so
you are wrong to stay here in the house
I certainly shall not leave mamma, when she has got so much upon her hands
But if you should be taken ill she would have more on her hands
I could not do it
If I were taken over to Guestwick, I should be so uneasy that I should walk back to Allington the first moment that I could escape from the house
I think your mother would be more comfortable without you
And I think she would be more comfortable with me. I don't ever like to hear of a woman running away from illness; but when a sister or a daughter does so, it is intolerable
I wish you would not come so often
you are overloading us with obligations
It will not be necessary much longer
the worst of it is over
It is such a luxury to hear you say so. I suppose we shall owe her life to you; but nevertheless
Oh, no; scarlatina is not such a terrible thing now as it used to be
Then why should you have devoted your time to her as you have done? It frightens me when I think of the injury we must have done you
My horse has felt it more than I have
My patients at Guestwick are not so very numerous
And it is really true
that you are all going to leave this house
Quite true. We shall do so at the end of March, if Lily is well enough to be moved
Lily will be well long before that, I hope; not, indeed, that she ought to be moved out of her own rooms for many weeks to come yet
Unless we are stopped by her we shall certainly go at the end of March
And why is it, Bell
But I don't know whether I have a right to ask
You have a right to ask any question about us
My uncle is very kind. He is more than kind; he is generous. But he seems to think that our living here gives him a right to interfere with mamma. We don't like that, and, therefore, we are going
It is bad news
At any rate, when we are ill you will not have so far to come and see us
Yes, I understand. That means that I am ungracious not to congratulate myself on having you all so much nearer to me; but I do not in the least. I cannot bear to think of you as living anywhere but here at Allington. Dales will be out of their place in a street at Guestwick
That's hard upon the Dales, too
It is hard upon them. It's a sort of offshoot from that very tyrannical law of noblesse oblige. I don't think you ought to go away from Allington, unless the circumstances are very imperative
But they are very imperative
In that case, indeed
Have you never seen that mamma is not happy here
For myself, I never quite understood it all before as I do now; but now I see it
And I have seen it -- have seen at least what you mean. She has led a life of restraint; but then, how frequently is such restraint the necessity of a life? I hardly think that your mother would move on that account
No. It is on our account. But this restraint, as you call it, makes us unhappy, and she is governed by seeing that. My uncle is generous to her as regards money; but in other things -- in matters of feeling -- I think he has been ungenerous
Bell
I am going to ask you a question which perhaps I ought not to ask, only that I have known you so long that I almost feel that I am speaking to a sister
You may ask me what you please
It is about your cousin Bernard
About Bernard
Yes, about Bernard? I don't know whether I ought to ask you
I'm sure I can't say
There has been a rumour in Guestwick that he and you
It is untrue
quite untrue. If you hear it repeated, you should contradict it. I wonder why people should say such things
It would have been an excellent marriage -- all your friends must have approved it
What do you mean, Dr Crofts? How I do hate those words, 'an excellent marriage'. In them is contained more of wicked worldliness than any other words that one ever hears spoken. You want me to marry my cousin simply because I should have a great house to live in, and a coach. I know that you are my friend, but I hate such friendship as that
I think you misunderstand me, Bell. I mean that it would have been an excellent marriage, provided you had both loved each other
No, I don't misunderstand you. Of course it would be an excellent marriage, if we loved each other. You might say the same if I loved the butcher or the baker. What you mean is, that it makes a reason for loving him
I don't think I did mean that
Then you mean nothing
You have scolded me very dreadfully
and I believe I have deserved it for interfering
No; not at all for interfering
But at any rate you must forgive me before I go
I won't forgive you at all, unless you repent of your sins, and alter altogether the wickedness of your mind. You will become very soon as bad as Dr Gruffen
Shall I
Oh, but I will forgive you; for after all, you are the most generous man in the world
Oh, yes; of course I am. well-good-bye
But, Dr Crofts, you should not suppose others to be so much more worldly than yourself. You do not care for money so very much
But I do care very much
If you did, you would not come here for nothing day after day
I do care for money very much. I have sometimes nearly broken my heart because I could not get opportunities of earning it. It is the best friend that a man can have
Oh, Dr Crofts
the best friend that a man can have; if it be honestly come by. A woman can hardly realise the sorrow which may fall upon a man from the want of such a friend
Of course a man likes to earn a decent living by his profession; and you can do that
That depends upon one's ideas of decency
Ah! mine never ran very high. I've always had a sort of aptitude for living in a pigsty;-- a clean pigsty, you know, with nice fresh bean straw to lie upon. I think it was a mistake when they made a lady of me. I do, indeed
I do not
That because you don't quite know me yet. I've not the slightest pleasure in putting on three different dresses a day. I do it very often because it comes to me to do it, from the way in which we have been taught to live. But when we get to Guestwick I mean to change all that; and if you come in to tea, you'll see me in the same brown frock that I wear in the morning -- unless, indeed, the morning work makes the brown frock dirty. Oh, Dr Crofts! you'll have it pitch-dark riding home under the Guestwick elms
I don't mind the dark
But I do
And I shall ring for candles
Stop a moment, Bell. You need hardly have the candles before I go, and you need not begrudge my staying either, seeing that I shall be all alone at home
Begrudge your staying
But, however, you shall begrudge it, or else make me very welcome
What do you mean
You know you are welcome to us as flowers in May. You always were welcome; but now, when you have come to us in our trouble. At any rate, you shall never say that I turn you out
Shall I never say so
Shall I never say so, Bell? What if so poor a man as I ask for the hand that you will not give to so rich a man as your cousin Bernard
Ah, yes! I thought it would be so
I may go now, and may know that I have been turned out
What is it you mean, Dr Crofts? What is it you are saying? Why do you talk that nonsense, trying to see if you can provoke me
Yes; it is nonsense. I have no right to address you in that way, and certainly should not have done it now that I am in your house in the way of my profession. I beg your pardon
Forgive you for what
For daring to love you; for having loved you almost as long as you can remember; for loving you better than all beside. This alone you should forgive; but will you forgive me for having told it
I don't know what you mean, Dr Crofts; indeed I do not
I had meant to ask you to be my wife; simply that. But you shall not have the pain of making me a positive refusal. As I rode here today I thought of it. During my frequent rides of late I have thought of little else. But I told myself that I had no right to do it. I have not even a house in which it would be fit that you should live
Dr Crofts, if I loved you -- if I wished to marry you
But you do not
No; I think not. I suppose not. No. But in any way no consideration about money has anything to do with it
But I am not that butcher or that baker whom you could love
No
I knew it would be so
Now I will go
And you will understand what I meant when I spoke of being turned out
Nobody turns you out
It is time, at any rate, that I should go; is it not? And, Bell, don't suppose that this little scene will keep me away from your sister's bedside. I shall be here tomorrow, and you will find that you will hardly know me again for the same person
Good-bye
Good-bye, dearest friend
Good-bye
Dear Lily
poor Lily
He doesn't scruple at that kind of thing
Don't you think we'd better
I think not, my dear
Mamma is not very particular; but there are little things, you know
Oh, yes, of course
But if you have no private fortune of your own, you cannot have everything
I think you don't like St. John's Wood
I have always disliked it. It amounts to a prejudice, I dare say. But if I were made to live here I am convinced I should cut my throat in the first six months
Oh, dear, no
I like it very much for you, and enjoy coming here of all things. I speak only of the effect which living here myself would have upon me
For heaven's sake, my dear, don't let him take you anywhere beyond Eccleston Square
You can pay me a hundred and fifty a year with four per cent, till it is liquidated
I will have no bills, d'ye hear
I won't have any bills about this affair
I think we'll look at that one at the bottom again
No, my dear, that green in the scroll-work won't do. It would fly directly, if any hot water were spilt
That might do
It's a superb carpet, my lady, and about the newest thing we have. We put down four hundred and fifty yards of it for the Duchess of South Wales, at Cwddglwlch Castle, only last month. Nobody has had it since, for it has not been in stock
Five and three
Oh, no, my lady; five and seven; and the cheapest carpet we have in the house. There is twopence a yard more in the colour; there is, indeed
And the discount
Two and a half, my lady
Oh dear, no
I always have five per cent. for immediate payment -- quite immediate, you know
And what do you think of it, Adolphus?", asked Alexandrina. "Think of what
Of the carpet -- this one, you know
Oh -- what do I think of the carpet? I don't think I quite like all these yellow bands; and isn't it too red? I should have thought something brown with a small pattern would have been better. But, upon my word, I don't much care
Of course he doesn't
And now about the rug
You can't want me about the rug
Well, perhaps not
Laws, sir
the visitors' day is Wednesday; and if you would come then, there would be the man in livery
My dear Adolphus
the day is coming very near now; is it not
Very near, indeed
Yes, it is very near. I hope you feel yourself a happy man
Oh, yes, that's of course
It ought to be. Speaking very seriously, I mean that it ought to be a matter of course. She is everything that a man should desire in a wife. I am not alluding now to her rank, though of course you feel what a great advantage she gives you in this respect
I know of no man more fortunate than you have been
and I hope that my dear girl will find that you are fully aware that it is so. I think that she is looking rather fagged. You have allowed her to do more than was good for her in the way of shopping
She has done a good deal, certainly
She is so little used to anything of that kind! But of course, as things have turned out, it was necessary that she should see to these things herself
I rather think she liked it
I believe she will always like doing her duty. We are just going now to Madame Millefranc's, to see some silks -- perhaps you would wish to go with us
Oh dear, no, mamma
He's the worst person in a shop in the world. He likes nothing, and dislikes nothing. Do you, Adolphus
Indeed I do. I like all the cheap things, and dislike all the dear things
Then you certainly shall not go with us to Madame Millefranc's
It would not matter to him there, you know, my dear
By-the-by, Adolphus
I wish you would go to Lambert's, on Ludgate Hill, for me. He has had a bracelet of mine for nearly three months. Do, there's a good. creature. Get it if you can, and bring it up this evening
My dear
you can have no idea of what I shall have to go through with your father. And, of course, you could get all these things afterwards
Papa has no right to treat me in such a way. And if he would not give me any money himself, he should have let me have some of my own
Ah, my dear, that was Mr Gazebee's fault
I don't care whose fault it was. It certainly was not mine. I won't have him to tell me
that he had to pay for my wedding-clothes
Of course not that, my dear
No; nor yet for the things which I wanted immediately. I'd much rather go and tell him at once that the marriage must be put off
Your ladyship's memory must have played you false
My memory is very good
very good indeed. If Twitch got it, and didn't tell me, that was not my fault
Don't
Oh, my love, my love, my love
My dear
they know how tired I am. I wonder whether they are going to give us any tea
Good-night, Adolphus
But stop a minute; I know there is something I want you to do for me. But you will look in as you go to your office tomorrow morning
Oh, John, where's Mr Cradell
Where's Caudle
Upon my word, I don't know. I walked to the office with him, but I haven't seen him since. We don't sit in the same room, you know
John
What's up now
John! That woman's off and left her husband. As sure as your name's John Eames, that foolish fellow has gone off with her
What, Caudle? I don't believe it
She went out of this house at two o'clock in the afternoon, and has never been back since
He's there upstairs in the drawing-room, the very picture of disconsolateness
Who -- Caudle
Lupex is. He's been drinking a little, I'm afraid; but he's very unhappy, indeed. He had an appointment to meet his wife here at four o'clock, and when he came he found her gone. He rushed up into their room, and now he says she has broken open a box he had and taken off all his money
But he never had any money
He paid mother some the day before yesterday
That's just the reason he shouldn't have any today
She certainly has taken things she wouldn't have taken if she'd merely gone out shopping or anything like that, for I've been up in the room and looked about. She'd three necklaces. They weren't much account; but she must have them all on, or else have got them in her pocket
Caudle has never gone off with her in that way. He may be a fool
But he wouldn't be a party to stealing a lot of trumpery trinkets, or taking her husband's money. Indeed, I don't think he has anything to do with it
I can't think he has been such a fool as that
But he has
It's dinner-time now, and where is he? Had he any money left, Johnny
She borrowed twelve pounds from him about a fortnight since, immediately after quarter-day. And she owed him money, too, before that
Oh, what a soft
and he hasn't paid mother a shilling for the last two months
It was his money, perhaps, that Mrs Roper got from Lupex the day before yesterday. If so, it comes to the same thing as far as she is concerned, you know
And what are we to do now
Oh, John, what will become of me if ever you serve me in that way? What should I do if you were to go off with another lady
Lupex hasn't gone off
But it's the same thing
Hearts is divided. Hearts that have been joined together ought never to be divided; ought they
Hearts and darts are all my eye
My belief is that a man had better never marry at all. How d'you do, Mr Lupex? Is anything the matter
Mr Lupex, we're going to dinner immediately
Upon my word I don't know
But I know
The traitor to domestic bliss! I know. And wherever he is, he has that false woman in his arms. Would he were here
Traitor
False traitor! Foul traitor! And she too
James
I think you'd better stay with Mr Lupex while we are at dinner. Come, Miss Spruce, I'm very sorry that you should be annoyed by this kind of thing
It don't hurt me
I'm only an old woman
Annoyed
Annoyed! It is a profound sorrow to me that any lady should be annoyed by my misfortunes. As regards Miss Spruce, I look upon her character with profound veneration
You needn't mind me; I'm only an old woman
But, by heavens, I do mind
I shall always regard age as entitled
Here you are, old fellow, to answer for yourself
Upon my word and honour
Come, I say
this won't do at all, Mr Lupex. You've been drinking. You'd better wait till tomorrow morning, and speak to Cradell then
Tomorrow morning, viper
When will he restore to me my wife? When will he restore to me my honour
Upon -- on -- on -- on my
Jemima, Jemima, Jemima
Keep where you are
Upon -- my -- honour -- I know nothing about her
You hear his words -- this enemy to domestic bliss -- Ha, ha! man, tell me whither you have conveyed my wife
If you were to give me the Bank of England I don't know
And I'm sure he does not know
Of course he doesn't
No more than I do
His very looks show him innocent
Indeed they do
And if he doesn't know who does
Haven't I seen it all for the last three months? Is it reasonable to suppose that a creature such as she, used to domestic comforts all her life, should have gone off in this way, at dinnertime, taking with her my property and all her jewels, and that nobody should have instigated her; nobody assisted her! Is that a story to tell to such a man as me! You may tell it to the marines
I know what to do, Mrs Roper
I know what steps to take. I shall put the affair into the hands of my lawyers tomorrow morning
Of course you know nothing about it
What -- about Maria? I don't know where she is, if you mean that
Of course I mean that. What else should I mean? And what makes you call her Maria
It is wrong. I admit it's wrong. The word will come out, you know
Will come out! I'll tell you what it is, old fellow, you'll get yourself into a mess, and all for nothing. That fellow will have you up before the police for stealing his things
But, Johnny
I know all about it. Of course you have not stolen them, and of course there was nothing to steal. But if you go on calling her Maria you'll find that he'll have a pull on you. Men don't call other men's wives names for nothing
Of course we've been friends
Yes -- you have been friends! She's diddled you out of your money, and that's the beginning and the end of it. And now, if you go on showing off your friendship, you'll be done out of more money. You're making an ass of yourself. That's the long and the short of it
And what have you made of yourself with that girl? There are worse asses than I am yet, Master Johnny
If I was him I'd never ask a question about her, but let her go
Yes; and then have all her bills following you, wherever you went
I'd sooner have her bills than herself
My belief is, that she's been an ill-used woman
If she had a husband that she could respect and have loved, and all that sort of thing, she would have been a charming woman
She's every bit as bad as he is
I can't agree with you, Mrs Roper
Perhaps I ought to understand her position better than any one here, and
Then that's just what you ought not to do, Mr Cradell
That's just what a young man like you has no business to know. What's a married woman like that to you, or you to her; or what have you to do with understanding her position? When you've a wife of your own, if ever you do have one, you'll find you'll have trouble enough then without anybody else interfering with you. Not but what I believe you're innocent as a lamb about Mrs Lupex; that is, as far as any harm goes. But you've got yourself into all this trouble by meddling, and was like enough to get yourself choked upstairs by that man. And who's to wonder when you go on pretending to be in love with a woman in that way, and she old enough to be your mother? What would your mamma say if she saw you at it
Ha, ha, ha
It's all very well your laughing, but I hate such folly. If I see a young man in love with a young woman, I respect him for it
I respect him for it -- even though he may now and then do things as he shouldn't. They most of 'em does that. But to see a young man like you, Mr Cradell, dangling after an old married woman, who doesn't know how to behave herself; and all just because she lets him to do it -- ugh!-- an old broomstick with a petticoat on would do just as well! It makes me sick to see it, and that's the truth of it. I don't call it manly; and it ain't manly, is it, Miss Spruce
Of course I know nothing about it
But a young gentleman should keep himself to himself till the time comes for him to speak out -- begging your pardon all the same, Mr Cradell
I don't see what a married woman should want with any one after her but her own husband
And perhaps not always that
Oh, laws, ma'am, you have given us sich a turn
We all thought you was run away
It's Mrs Lupex
Well, my dears
I hope nobody has waited dinner
No; we didn't wait dinner
And where's my Orson? Didn't he dine at home? Mr Cradell, will you oblige me by taking my shawl? But perhaps you had better not. People are so censorious; ain't they, Miss Spruce? Mr Eames shall do it; and everybody knows that that will be quite safe. Won't it, Miss Amelia
Quite, I should think
And didn't Orson dine at home? Perhaps they kept him down at the theatre. But I've been thinking all day what fun it would be when he thought his bird was flown
He did dine at home
and he didn't seem to like it. There wasn't much fun, I can assure you
Ah, wasn't there, though? I believe that man would like to have me tied to his button-hole. I came across a few friends -- lady friends, Mr Cradell, though two of them had their husbands; so we made a party, and just went down to Hampton Court. So my gentleman has gone again, has he? That's what I get for gadding about myself, isn't it, Miss Spruce
He's an old savage, after all
and just as bad as the rest of them
I do not know who the rest of them are
but at any rate he's not very old
You know what I mean. He's just as grumpy as Dr Gruffen, and thinks everybody is to do what he tells them. Of course, you take his part
And of course you ought, seeing how good he has been
And of course I should, to anybody but you. I do like to abuse him to you
Lily, Lily
So I do. It's so hard to knock any fire out of you, that when one does find the place where the flint lies, one can't help hammering at it. What did he mean by saying that I shouldn't get up on Sunday? Of course I shall get up if I like it
Not if mamma asks you not
Oh, but she won't, unless he interferes and dictates to her. Oh, Bell, what a tyrant he would be if he were married
Would he
And how submissive you would be, if you were his wife! It's a thousand pities that you are not in love with each other -- that is, if you are not
Lily, I thought that there was a promise between us about that
Ah! but that was in other days. Things are all altered since that promise was given,-- all the world has been altered
I feel as though I ought to be allowed to speak about anything I please
You shall, if it pleases you, my pet
You see how it is, Bell; I can never again have anything of my own to talk about
Oh, my darling, do not say that
But it is so, Bell; and why not say it? Do you think I never say it to myself in the hours when I am all alone, thinking over it -- thinking, thinking, thinking. You must not -- you must not grudge to let me talk of it sometimes
I will not grudge you anything -- only I cannot believe that it must be so always
Ask yourself, Bell, how it would be with you. But I sometimes fancy that you measure me differently from yourself
Indeed I do, for I know how much better you are
I am not so much better as to be ever able to forget all that. I know I never shall do so. I have made up my mind about it clearly and with an absolute certainty
Lily, Lily, Lily! pray do not say so
But I do say it. And yet I have not been very mopish and melancholy; have I, Bell? I do think I deserve some little credit, and yet, I declare, you won't allow me the least privilege in the world
What privilege would you wish me to give you
To talk about Dr Crofts
Lily, you are a wicked, wicked tyrant
You heard what he said, my darling
You can get up for an hour or two tomorrow, but he thinks you had better not go out of the room
What would be the good of that, mamma? I am so tired of looking always at the same paper. It is such a tiresome paper. It makes one count the pattern over and over again. I wonder how you ever can live here
I've got used to it, you see
I never can get used to that sort of thing; but go on counting, and counting, and counting. I'll tell you what I should like; and I'm sure it would be the best thing, too
And what would you like
Just to get up at nine o'clock tomorrow, and go to church as though nothing had happened. Then, when Dr Crofts came in the evening, you would tell him I was down at the school
I wouldn't quite advise that
It would give him such a delightful start. And when he found I didn't die immediately, as of course I ought to do according to rule, he would be so disgusted
It would be very ungrateful, to say the least of it
No, it wouldn't, a bit. He needn't come, unless he likes it. And I don't believe he comes to see me at all. It's all very well, mamma, your looking in that way; but I'm sure it's true. And I'll tell you what I'll do, I'll pretend to be bad again, otherwise the poor man will be robbed of his only happiness
I suppose we must allow her to say what she likes till she gets well
It's true, mamma
and I defy her to deny it. I would forgive him for keeping me in bed if he would only make her fall in love with him
She has made a bargain, mamma
that she is to say whatever she likes till she gets well
I am to say whatever I like always; that was the bargain, and I mean to stand to it
I am quite sure she was right in accepting him, Bell
It was a matter of course
It always is right in the novels. That's why I don't like them. They are too sweet
That's why I do like them, because they are so sweet. A sermon is not to tell you what you are, but what you ought to be, and a novel should tell you not what you are to get, but what you'd like to get
If so, then, I'd go back to the old school, and have the heroine really a heroine, walking all the way up from Edinburgh to London, and falling among thieves; or else nursing a wounded hero, and describing the battle from the window. We've got tired of that; or else the people who write can't do it nowadays. But if we are to have real life, let it be real
No, Bell, no
Real life sometimes is so painful
I don't think I said anything
But silence always gives consent. He'll know that
No, he will not; my silence didn't give any consent; I'm sure of that. And he didn't think that it did
But you didn't mean to refuse him
I think I did. I don't think I knew what I meant; and it was safer, therefore, to look no, than to look yes. If I didn't say it, I'm sure I looked it
But you wouldn't refuse him now
I don't know
It seems as though I should want years to make up my mind; and he won't ask me again
Then I'll go
Indeed you won't
He is coming simply to make a morning call, and nobody need run away. Now, Dr Crofts, you need not come and stand over me with your watch, for I won't let you touch my hand except to shake hands with me
And all you'll know of my tongue you'll learn from the sound
I don't care in the least for your tongue
I dare say not, and yet you may some of these days. I can speak out if I like it; can't I, mamma
I should think Dr Crofts knows that by this time, my dear
I don't know. There are some things gentlemen are very slow to learn. But you must sit down, Dr Crofts, and make yourself comfortable and polite; for you must understand that you are not master here any longer. I am out of bed now, and your reign is over
That's the gratitude of the world, all through
Who is ever grateful to a doctor? He only cures you that he may triumph over some other doctor, and declare, as he goes by Dr Gruffen's door, 'There, had she called you in, she'd have been dead before now; or else would have been ill for twelve months.' Don't you jump for joy when Dr Gruffen's patients die
Of course I do -- out in the market-place, so that everybody shall see me
Lily, how can you say such shocking things
Dear boy
Dear boy! it came from the honestness of his heart
I was at the manor, yesterday
and the earl would talk about nothing but Master Johnny. He says he's the finest fellow going
I am so glad
I always knew that they'd find John out at last
And Lady Julia is just as fond of him
Dear me
Suppose they were to make up a match
Lily, how can you be so absurd
Let me see; what relation would he be to us? He would certainly be Bernard's uncle, and Uncle Christopher's half brother-in-law. Wouldn't it be odd
It would rather
I hope he'll be civil to Bernard. Don't you, Bell? Is he to give up the Income-tax Office, Dr Crofts
I didn't hear that that was settled yet
Joking apart
I am very glad that Lord de Guest has taken him by the hand. Not that I think an earl is better than anybody else, but because it shows that people are beginning to understand that he has got something in him. I always said that they who laughed at John would see him hold up his head yet
And now I may as well be going
You need not be in such a hurry, especially this evening
Why especially this evening
Because it will be the last. Sit down again, Dr Crofts. I've got a little speech to make to you. I've been preparing it all the morning, and you must give me an opportunity of speaking it
I'll come the day after tomorrow, and I'll hear it then
But I choose, sir, that you should hear it now. Am I riot to be obeyed when I first get up on to my own throne? Dear, dear Dr Crofts, how am I to thank you for all that you have done
How are any of us to thank him
I hate thanks
One kind glance of the eye is worth them all, and I've had many such in this house
You have our hearts' love, at any rate
God bless you all
But I haven't made my speech yet
And to tell the truth, mamma, you must go away, or I shall never be able to make it. It's very improper, is it not, turning you out, but it shall only take three minutes
Dr Crofts
Sit down there, close to me. I want to ask you a question. What was it you said to Bell when you were alone with her the other evening in the parlour
What did I say to her
I asked her if she could love me, and be my wife
And what answer did she make to you
What answer did she make? She simply refused me
No, no, no; don't believe her, Dr Crofts. It was not so -- I think it was not so. Mind you, I can say nothing as coming from her. She has not told me her own mind. But if you really love her, she will be mad to refuse you
I do love her, Lily; that at any rate is true
Then go to her again. I am speaking for myself now. I cannot afford to lose such a brother as you would be. I love you so dearly that I cannot spare you. And she -- I think she'll learn to love you as you would wish to be loved. You know her nature, how silent she is, and averse to talk about herself. She has confessed nothing to me but this -- that you spoke to her and took her by surprise. Are we to have another chance? I know how wrong I am to ask such a question. But, after all, is not the truth the best
Another chance
I know what you mean, and I think she is worthy to be your wife. I do, indeed; and if so, she must be very worthy. You won't tell of me, will you now, doctor
No; I won't tell of you
And you'll try again
Yes; I'll try again
God bless you, my brother! I hope -- I hope you'll be my brother
Make mamma come to me
So you've made your speech
Yes, mamma
I hope it was a discreet speech
I hope it was, mamma. But it has made me so tired, and I believe I'll go to bed. Do you know I don't think I should have done much good down at the school today
It may be that she's right
and, at any rate, I'll ask again
Well, Plantagenet -- very busy, I suppose
Well, Plantagenet
Yes, indeed, duke
When a man gets the harness on him he does not easily get quit of it
By-the-by
I want to say a word or two to you before you go
I'll see you before dinner tomorrow
Ah, do
I'll not keep you five minutes
I don't suppose there is much in it
but people are talking about you and Lady Dumbello
Upon my word, people are very kind
Yes; kind enough; are they not? You've just come from Hartlebury, I believe
Yes, I have. And I'm going there again in February
Ah, I'm sorry for that. Not that I mean, of course, to interfere with your arrangements. You will acknowledge that I have not often done so, in any matter whatever
No; you have not
But in this instance it would suit me, and I really think it would suit you too, that you should be as little at Hartlebury as possible. You have said you would go there, and of course you will go. But if I were you, I would not stay above a day or two
I don't know how long I shall stay
but I cannot say that my visit will be influenced one way or the other by such a rumour as that
No; probably not. But it may perhaps be influenced by my request
You wouldn't ask me to regard a report that has no foundation
I am not asking about its foundation. Nor do I in the least wish to interfere with your manner in life
The fact is this, Plantagenet. I have for many years been intimate with that family. I have not many intimacies, and shall probably never increase them. Such friends as I have, I wish to keep, and you will easily perceive that any such, report as that which I have mentioned, might make it unpleasant for me to go to Hartlebury, or for the Hartlebury people to come here
That's all
It's a most absurd slander
I dare say. Those slanders always are absurd; but what can we do? We can't tie up people's tongues
But we can disregard them
You may. I have never been able to do so. And yet, I believe, I have not earned for myself the reputation of being subject to the voices of men. You think that I am asking much of you; but you should remember that hitherto I have given much and have asked nothing. I expect you to oblige me in this matter
I never did yet
but I'll have a try at it
So your sister's going to be married
Yes. One has no right to be surprised at anything they do, when one remembers the life their father leads them
I was going to congratulate you
Don't do that
I met him at Courcy, and rather liked him
Did you
For the poor girl's sake I hope he's not a ruffian. How any man should propose to my father to marry a daughter out of his house, is more than I can understand. How was my mother looking
I didn't see anything amiss about her
I expect that he'll murder her some day
When do you go to town
Probably in April. We certainly shall not leave Hartlebury before that
Ah, yes. You stay for the hunting
Yes; Lord Dumbello always remains here through March. He may run up to town for a day or two
How comfortable! I must be in London on Thursday, you know
When Parliament meets, I suppose? "Exactly. It is such a bore; but one has to do it
When a man makes a business of it, I suppose he must
Oh, dear, yes; it's quite imperative
You'll be sure to be in London in April
Oh, yes; I think so
In Carlton Gardens, I suppose
Yes; Lord Dumbello has got a lease of the house now
Has he, indeed? Ah, it's an excellent house. I hope I shall be allowed to call there sometimes
Certainly -- only I know you must be so busy
Not on Saturdays and Sundays
I always receive on Sundays
Good-bye, Lady Dumbello
I start early tomorrow morning
Good-bye, Mr Palliser
Mr Palliser
I wonder you don't think of marrying. I hope you'll excuse me
I hope you'll excuse me, Mr Palliser, I do, indeed; but I say it because I am half afraid of some -- some -- some diminution of good feeling, perhaps, I had better call it, between you and your uncle. Anything of that kind would be such a monstrous pity
I am not aware of any such probability
No; perhaps not. I trust there is no such probability. But the duke is a very determined man if he takes anything into his head -- and then he has so much in his power
He has not me in his power, Mr Fothergill
No, no, no. One man does not have another in his power in this country -- not in that way; but then you know, Mr Palliser, it would hardly do to offend him; would it
I would rather not offend him, as is natural. Indeed, I do not wish to offend any one
Exactly so; and least of all the duke, who has the whole property in his own hands. We may say the whole, for he can marry tomorrow if he pleases. And then his life is so good. I don't know a stouter man of his age, anywhere
I'm very glad to hear it
I'm sure you are, Mr Palliser. But if he were to take offence, you know
I should put up with it
Yes, exactly; that's what you would do. But it would be worth while to avoid it, seeing how much he has in his power
No, no, no -- nothing of the sort. But he dropped words the other day which made me fancy that he was not quite -- quite -- quite at ease about you. I have long known that he would be very glad indeed to see an heir born to the property. The other morning -- I don't know whether there was anything in it -- but I fancied he was going to make some change in the present arrangements. He did not do it, and it might have been fancy. Only think, Mr Palliser, what one word of his might do! If he says a word, he never goes back from it
I feel, however, quite convinced
that it cannot go on longer than the spring. I never yet saw a man so infatuated as Mr Palliser. He did not leave her for one moment all the time he was here. No one but Lady Hartletop would have permitted it. But, you know, there is nothing so pleasant as good old family friendships
He'll be a wretched man
I don't want him to be wretched
But I can hardly think that he can act as he has done without being punished
He will be a wretched man. He gets no fortune with her, and she will expect everything that fortune can give. I believe, too, that she is older than he is. I cannot understand it. Upon my word, I cannot understand how a man can be such a knave and such a fool. Give my love to Lily. I'll see her tomorrow or the next day. She's well rid of him; I'm sure of that -- though I suppose it would not do to tell her so
Mamma
how cold they'll be
I fear their hearts will be cold also
Why should their hearts be cold? Oh, mamma, that is a terrible thing to say. Why should their hearts be cold
I hope it may not be so
Of course you do; of course we all hope it. He was not cold-hearted, at any rate. A man is not cold-hearted, because he does not know himself. Mamma, I want you to wish for their happiness
I think I do
I think I do wish for it
I am very sure that I do
You must be very careful in wrapping yourself as you go downstairs
The cold is what you would call awful
I should call it jolly
Did I, my pet? "Don't you remember, when I called him a swell? Ah, dear! so he was. That was the mistake, and it was all my own fault, as I had seen it from the first
I understand, Bell. I know what your foot means when it goes in that way; and you shan't do it. Come here, Bell, and let me teach you Christianity. I'm a fine sort of teacher, am I not? And I did not quite mean that
I wish I could learn it from some one
There are circumstances in which what we call Christianity seems to me to be hardly possible
When your foot goes in that way it is a very unchristian foot, and you ought to keep it still. It means anger against him, because he discovered before it was too late that he would not be happy -- that is, that he and I would not be happy together if we were married
Don't scrutinise my foot too closely, Lily
But your foot must bear scrutiny, and your eyes, and your voice. He was very foolish to fall in love with me. And so was I very foolish to let him love me, at a moment's notice -- without a thought as it were. I was so proud of having him, that I gave myself up to him all at once, without giving him a chance of thinking of it. In a week or two it was done. Who could expect that such an engagement should be lasting
And why not? That is nonsense, Lily. But we will not talk about it
Ah, but I want to talk about it. It was as I have said, and if so, you shouldn't hate him because he did the only thing which he honestly could do when he found out his mistake
What; become engaged again within a week
There had been a very old friendship, Bell; you must remember that. But I was speaking of his conduct to me, and not of his conduct to
Bell
at what o'clock do people get married in London
Oh, at all manner of hours -- any time before twelve. They will be fashionable, and will be married late
Lady Alexandrina Crosbie
Yes, of course; I forgot. I should so like to see her. I feel such an interest about her. I wonder what coloured hair she has. I suppose she is a sort of Juno of a woman -- very tall and handsome. I'm sure she has not got a pug-nose like me. Do you know what I should really like, only of course it's not possible -- to be godmother to his first child
Oh, Lily
I should. Don't you hear me say that I know it's not possible? I'm not going up to London to ask her. She'll have all manner of grandees for her godfathers and godmothers. I wonder what those grand people are really like
I don't think there's any difference. Look at Lady Julia
Oh, she's not a grand person. It isn't merely having a title. Don't you remember that he told us that Mr Palliser is about the grandest grandee of them all. I suppose people do learn to like them. He always used to say that he had been so long among people of that sort, that it would be very difficult for him to divide himself off from them. I should never have done for that kind of thing; should I
There is nothing I despise so much as what you call that kind of thing
Do you? I don't. After all, think how much work they do. He used to tell me of that. They have all the governing in their hands, and get very little money for doing it
Worse luck for the country
The country seems to do pretty well. But you're a radical, Bell. My belief is, you wouldn't be a lady if you could help it
I'd sooner be an honest woman
And so you are -- my own dear, dearest, honest Bell -- and the fairest lady that I know. If I were a man, Bell, you are just the girl that I should worship
But you are not a man; so it's no good
But you mustn't let your foot go astray in that way; you mustn't, indeed. Somebody said, that whatever is, is right, and I declare I believe it
I'm sometimes inclined to think, that whatever is, is wrong
That's because you're a radical. I think I'll get up now, Bell; only it's so frightfully cold that I'm afraid
There's a beautiful fire
Yes; I see. But the fire won't go all around me, like the bed does. I wish I could know the very moment when they're at the altar. It's only half-past ten yet
I shouldn't be at all surprised if it's over
Over! What a word that is! A thing like that is over, and then all the world cannot put it back again. What if he should be unhappy after all
He must take his chance
Of course he must take his chance. well-I'll get up now
We must all take our chance. I have made up my mind that it will be at half-past eleven
Mamma
it is over now, I'm sure
He has made that lady his wife. I hope God will bless them, and I pray that they may be happy
I also will hope so
And now, Lily, will it not be well that you should turn your mind away from the subject, and endeavour to think of other things
But I can't, mamma. It is so easy to say that; but people can't choose their own thoughts
They can usually direct them as they will, if they make the effort
But I can't make the effort. Indeed, I don't know why I should. It seems natural to me to think about him, and I don't suppose it can be very wrong. When you have had so deep an interest in a person, you can't drop him all of a sudden
I declare, Bell
it's the greatest rubbish I ever attempted to read
All the books have got to be so stupid! I think I'll read Pilgrim's Progress again
What do you say to Robinson Crusoe
Or Paul and Virginia
But I believe I'll have Pilgrim's Progress. I never can understand it, but I rather think that makes it nicer
I hate books I can't understand
I like a book to be clear as running water, so that the whole meaning may be seen at once
The reader mustn't be a fool, of course
But then so many readers are fools
And yet they get something out of their reading. Mrs Crump is always poring over the Revelations, and nearly knows them by heart. I don't think she could interpret a single image, but she has a hazy, misty idea of the truth. That's why she likes it -- because it's too beautiful to be understood; and that's why I like Pilgrim's Progress
No, not now
I'll go on with this, as you say it's so grand. The personages are always in their tantrums and go on as though they were mad. Mamma, do you know where they're going for the honeymoon
No, my dear
He used to talk to me about going to the lakes
But I won't think of it any more
I will fix my mind to something
I don't think it would have been so difficult if I had not been ill
Of course it would not, my darling
And I'm going to be well again now, immediately. Let me see: I was told to read Carlyle's History of the French Revolution, and I think I'll begin now
But I must put it off till I can get it down from the other house
Jane shall fetch it, if you really want it
Bell shall get it, when she goes up in the afternoon; will you, Bell? And I'll try to get on with this stuff in the meantime
I'll tell you what, mamma -- you may have some comfort in this: that when today's gone by, I shan't make a fuss about any other day
Nobody thinks that you are making a fuss, Lily
Yes, but I am. Isn't it odd, Bell, that it should take place on Valentine's day? I wonder whether it was so settled on purpose, because of the day. Oh, dear, I used to think so often of the letter that I should get from him on this day, when he would tell me that I was his valentine. Well; he's got another-valen-tine-now
Lily, my darling; my poor, ill-used darling
No, mamma, I won't be that
I won't be regarded as ill-used; not as specially ill-used. But I am your darling, your own darling. Only I wish you'd beat me and thump me when I'm such a fool, instead of pitying me. It's a great mistake being soft to people when they make fools of themselves. There, Bell; there's your stupid book, and I won't have any more of it. I believe it was that that did it
It will be a great comfort to be nearer Dr Crofts; won't it, Bell
I don't know
Because if we are ill, he won't have such a terrible distance to come
That will be a comfort for him, I should think
I don't believe a bit, you know, that the king was such a bad man as that
I do
Ah, that's because you're a radical. I never will believe that kings are so much worse than other people. As for Charles the First, he was about the best man in history
He will not come to me in our new home
To marry a girl without any immediate cost was a thing which nobody could understand
I would really spend as little as possible
You see, mamma, there are circumstances about it which one doesn't wish to have talked about just at present. There's the story of that girl -- and then that fracas at the station. I really think it ought to be as quiet as possible
But it won't cost as much
I need not tell you, Adolphus
how thoroughly satisfied I am with this marriage. My dear girl feels that she can be happy as your wife, and what more can I want? I declared to her and to Amelia that I was not ambitious, for their sakes, and have allowed them both to please themselves
I hope they have pleased themselves
I trust so; but nevertheless -- I don't know whether I make myself understood? "Quite so, Lady de Courcy. If Alexandrina were going to marry the eldest son of a marquis, you would have a longer procession to church than will be necessary when she marries me
You put it in such an odd way, Adolphus
It's all right so long as we understand each other. I can assure you I don't want any procession at all. I should be quite contented to go down with Alexandrina, arm in arm, like Darby and Joan, and let the clerk give her away
He'll become quiet and happy when he's used to it
I don't know, my dear; he's not a quiet man. There's something in his eye which tells me that he could be very hard to a woman
It has gone too far now for any change
Well; perhaps it has
And I know my sister so well; she would not hear of it. I really think they will do very well when they become used to each other
At any rate, it is too late now
We cannot give a dinner, my dear, with only cook and Sarah
If Phipps and Dowdney can come here and eat a bit of mutton, they are very welcome; if not, let them stay away. And you might as well ask Phipps's sister; just to have some one to go with you into the drawing-room
I'd much rather go alone -- because then I can read
Have a bit more mutton, Phipps; and where do you like it
Yes; I shall go
I always stick to a fellow if I can. Crosbie has behaved like a blackguard, and like a fool also; and he knows that I think so. But I don't see why I should drop him on that account. I shall go as he has asked me
So shall I
Maria may be slow, and all that sort of thing
but she is my wife. And she had got what they haven't. Love me, love my dog, you know
I don't care a bit about France -- we have been there so often
Are you quite comfortable
Oh, yes, quite, thank you. By-the-by, what did you do with my dressing-case
It is under you. You can have it as foot-stool if you like it
Oh, no; I should scratch it. I was afraid that if Hannah had it, it might be lost
Take care of my bonnet
I do so hate tunnels
Alexandrina
Alexandrina, this is a very important step that you and I have taken today
Yes; it is, indeed
I trust we shall succeed in making each other happy
Yes; I hope we shall
If we both think seriously of it, and remember that that is our chief duty, we shall do so
Yes, I suppose we shall. I only hope we shan't find the house very cold. It is so new, and I am so subject to colds in my head. Amelia says we shall find it very cold; but then she was always against our going there
The house will do very well
I am only telling you what Amelia said
We shall find a good fire in the parlour at the hotel
Oh, I hope so
and in the bedroom too
What time would you like to dine
Whenever you please; only I should like some tea and bread-and-butter presently
If you please, sir, my lady wants to know at what time you have ordered dinner
At seven, Hannah
My lady says she is very tired, and will lie down till dinnertime
Very well, Hannah. I will go into her room when it is time to dress. I hope they are making you comfortable downstairs
Of course I don't care
only it seems to me that you are making a fool of yourself
I thought you wanted to get rid of her
She's nothing on earth to me; only it does, you know
Does do what
Why, if I was to be fal-lalling with that married woman, you wouldn't like it. That's all about it. Do you mean to marry her
What!-- Amelia
Yes; Amelia
Not if I know it
Then if I were you I would leave her alone. She's only making a fool of you
By Jove, I'll write to him every week of his life, till he's sick of me
I know nothing about it
I shall certainly lay the matter before the Board
And why should he choose me
Well, we have talked it over together, and I think that he prefers you to any other that has been named
But he was so very hard upon me about the affair at the railway station
I think he has heard more about that since; I think that some message has reached him from your friend, Earl de Guest
Oh, indeed
But he is so very rough
You can put up with that
His bark is worse than his bite, as you know, and then a hundred a year is worth having
What have you got in that drawer, Mr Eames
A private letter, Mr Kissing
Oh -- a private letter
I have been half the morning, Mr Eames, looking for this letter to the Admiralty, and you've put it under S
Somerset House
Psha -- Somerset House! Half the offices in London
You'd better ask Mr Love
It's all done under his special instructions
Mr Love knows all about the indexing
He's index master general to the department
No, I'm not, Mr Eames
But I believe the indexes, on the whole, are very well done in this room. Some people don't know how to find letters
Mr Eames
if you have yet to learn that the word Admiralty begins with A and not with S, you have much to learn which should have been acquired before you first came into this office. Somerset House is not a department
Is not a department. The Treasury is a department; the Home Office is a department; the India Board is a department
No, Mr Kissing, it isn't
You know very well what I mean, sir. The India Office is a department
There's no Board, sir
Never mind; but how any gentleman who has been in the service three months -- not to say three years -- can suppose Somerset House to be a department, is beyond my comprehension. If you have been improperly instructed
We shall know all about it another time
Mr Love will make a memorandum of it
I shan't do anything of the kind
If you have been wrongly instructed
Mr Eames to wait upon Sir Raffle
Ah, Eames -- yes
just wait half a minute, will you
Ah, Eames -- well -- yes
They tell me that you know the business of this office pretty well
Some of it, sir
Well, yes; some of it. But you'll have to understand the whole of it if you come to me. And you must be very sharp about it too. You know that FitzHoward is leaving me
I have heard of it, sir
A very excellent young man, though perhaps not --. But we won't mind that. The work is a little too much for him, and he's going back into the office. I believe Lord de Guest is a friend of yours; isn't he
Yes; he is a friend of mine, certainly. He's been very kind to me
Ah, well. I've known the earl for many years -- for very many years; and intimately at one time. Perhaps you may have heard him mention my name
Yes, I have, Sir Raffle
We were intimate once, but those things go off, you know. He's been the country mouse and I've been the town mouse. Ha, ha, ha! You may tell him that I say so. He won't mind that coming from me
Oh, no; not at all
Mind you tell him when you see him. The earl is a man for whom I've always had a great respect -- a very great respect -- I may say regard. And now, Eames, what do you say to taking FitzHoward's place? The work is hard. It is fair that I should tell you that. The work will, no doubt, be very hard. I take a greater share of what's going than my predecessors have done; and I don't mind telling you that I have been sent here, because a man was wanted who would do that
I mean to do my duty, and I shall expect that my private secretary will do his. But, Mr Eames, I never forget a man. Whether he be good or bad, I never forget a man. You don't dislike late hours, I suppose
Coming late to the office you mean? Oh, no, not in the least
Staying late -- staying late. Six or seven o'clock if necessary -- putting your shoulder to the wheel when the coach gets into the mud. That's what I've been doing all my life. They've known what I am very well. They've always kept me for the heavy roads. If they paid, in the Civil Service, by the hour, I believe I should have drawn a larger income than any man in it. If you take the vacant chair in the next room you'll find it's no joke. It's only fair that I should tell you that
I can work as hard as any man
That's right. That's right. Stick to that and I'll stick to you. It will be a great gratification to me to have by me a friend of my old friend De Guest. Tell him I say so. And now you may as well get into harness at once. FitzHoward is there. You can go in to him, and at half-past four exactly I'll see you both. I'm very exact, mind -- very -- and therefore you must be exact
Sir Raffle, there's one favour I want to ask of you
And what's that
I am most anxious to be absent for a fortnight or three weeks, just at Easter. I shall want to go in about ten days
Absent for three weeks at Easter, when the parliamentary work is beginning! That won't do for a private secretary
But it's very important, Sir Raffle
Out of the question, Eames; quite out of the question
It's almost life and death to me
Almost life and death. Why, what are you going to do
Well, I can't exactly tell you, and I'm not quite sure myself
Then don't talk nonsense. It's impossible that I should spare my private secretary just at that time of the year. I couldn't do it. The service won't admit of it. You're not entitled to leave at that season. Private secretaries always take their leave in the autumn
I should like to be absent in the autumn too, but
It's out of the question, Mr Eames
I got a letter from Lord de Guest this morning, pressing me very much to go to him at Easter. It's about business
If there was any difficulty, he said, he should write to you
Write to me
Of course I shouldn't tell him to do that. But, Sir Raffle, if I remained out there, in the office
I could choose April for my month. And as the matter is so important to me, and to the earl
What can it be
It's quite private
Well; go in to FitzHoward now. I can't lose all my day in this way
But I shall be able to get away at Easter
I don't know. We shall see about it. But don't stand talking there now
I hope you like being rung for, like a servant, every minute, for he's always ringing that bell. And he'll roar at you till you're deaf. You must give up all dinner engagements, for though there is not much to do, he'll never let you go. I don't think anybody ever asks him out to dinner, for he likes being here till seven. And you'll have to write all manner of lies about big people. And, sometimes, when he has sent Rafferty out about his private business, he'll ask you to bring him his shoes
A man is not asked to bring another man his shoes
until he shows himself fit for that sort of business
So that he might always want me to be dying
I'm sure he wouldn't want that
But you may live for twenty-five years, you know
Say fifty
By George, he will
Poor fellow
But I thought a private secretary never had anything to do
I shouldn't like to be private secretary to Sir Raffle, myself. But he's young, and a hundred a year is a great thing. How we all of us used to hate that man. His voice sounded like a bell with a crack in it. We always used to be asking for some one to muffle the Buffle. They call him Huffle Scuffle at his office. Poor Johnny
What! you here still
I thought you always went at four
Yes; I had things to do. I say, Johnny, I congratulate you most heartily; I do, indeed
Thank you, old fellow
It is such a grand thing, you know. A hundred a year all at once! And then such a snug room to yourself -- and that fellow, Kissing, never can come near you. He has been making himself such a beast all day. But, Johnny, I always knew you'd come to something more than common. I always said so
There's nothing uncommon about this; except that Fitz says that old Ruffle Scuffle makes himself uncommon nasty
Never mind what Fitz says. It's all jealousy. You'll have it all your own way, if you look sharp. I think you always do have it all your own way. Are you nearly ready
Well-not quite. Don't wait for me, Caudle
Oh, I'll wait. I don't mind waiting. They'll keep dinner for us if we both stay. Besides, what matters? I'd do more than that for you
I have some idea of working on till eight, and having a chop sent in
Besides -- I've got somewhere to call, by myself
Oh, Johnny
I know what that means. You are going to throw me over because you are getting up in the world. I have always stuck to you, through everything; haven't I
Don't make yourself a fool, Caudle
Well; so I have. And if they had made me private secretary, I should have been just the same to you as ever. You'd have found no change in me
What a goose you are. Do you say I'm changed, because I want to dine in the city
It's all because you don't want to walk home with me, as we used to do. I'm not such a goose but what I can see. But, Johnny -- I suppose I mustn't call you Johnny, now
Don't be such a con-founded
Come along
I tell you what it is, Caudle
all that kind of thing is disgusting
But how would you feel
But how would you feel
if the friend whom you liked better than anybody else in the world, turned his back upon you
I haven't turned my back upon you; except that I can't get you to walk fast enough. Come along, old fellow, and don't talk confounded nonsense. I hate all that kind of thing. You never ought to suppose that a man will give himself airs, but wait till he does. I don't believe I shall remain with old Scuffles above a month or two. From all that I can hear that's as much as any one can bear
all that kind of thing
And as to getting him his shoes
I don't suppose he'd ever think of asking you to do such a thing, unless he was in a very great hurry, or something of that kind
Look here, Johnny
you know the last thing in the world I should like to do would be to offend you
All right, Caudle
Look here, now; if I have vexed you about Amelia Roper, I'll make you a promise never to speak to her again
D --- Amelia Roper
I only meant to say
I'll do anything you like in the matter
Then never mention her name to me again. And as to talking to her, you may talk to her till you're both blue in the face, if you please
Oh -- I didn't know. You didn't seem to like it the other day
I was a fool the other day -- a confounded fool. And so I have been all my life. Amelia Roper! Look here, Caudle; if she makes up to you this evening, as I've no doubt she will, for she seems to be playing that game constantly now, just let her have her fling. Never mind me; I'll amuse myself with Mrs Lupex, or Miss Spruce
But there'll be the deuce to pay with Mrs Lupex. She's as cross as possible already whenever Amelia speaks to me. You don't know what a jealous woman is, Johnny
Oh, indeed
An 'appy woman your mother will be when she hears it. But I always said you'd come down right side uppermost
Handsome is as handsome does
Oh, Mr Eames
I wish you joy from the very depth of my heart. It is such an elegant appointment
Accept the hand of a true and disinterested friend
And now -- now will you not be mine
Oh, I am so happy, John -- so very happy
Bother
Oh, Mr Cradell
The friends I like are the friends that remain always the same. I hate your sudden rises. They do so often make a man upsetting
I should like to try, myself, all the same
Well, I don't think it would make any difference in you; I don't indeed. And, of course, your time will come too. It's that earl as has done it -- he that was worried by the bull. Since we have known an earl we have been so mighty fine
And here, Mr Eames, is to your very good health
Thank ye
I don't know much about the prosperity, but I'm just as much obliged
Yes, sir; when I see a young man of your age beginning to rise in the world, I know he'll go on. Now look at me, Mr Eames. Mr Cradell, here's your very good health, and may all unkindness be drowned in the flowing bowl. Look at me, Mr Eames. I've never risen in the world. I've never done any good in the world, and never shall
Oh, Mr Lupex, don't say that
Ah, but I do say it. I've always been pulling the devil by the tail, and never yet got as much as a good hold on to that. And I'll tell you why; I never got a chance when I was young. If I could have got any big fellow, a star, you know, to let me paint his portrait when I was your age -- such a one, let us say, as your friend Sir Raffle
What a star
Well, I suppose he's pretty much known in the world, isn't he? Or Lord Derby, or Mr Spurgeon. You know what I mean. If I'd got such a chance as that when I was young, I should never have been doing jobs of scene-painting at the minor theatres at so much a square yard. You've got the chance now, but I never had it
It's a very queer thing -- life is
A very queer thing. Now, remember, young gentlemen, I'm not denying that success in life will depend upon good conduct -- of course it does; but, then, how often good conduct comes from success! Should I have been what I am now, do you suppose, if some big fellow had taken me by the hand when I was struggling to make an artist, of myself? I could have drunk claret and champagne just as well as gin-and-water, and worn ruffles to my shirt as gracefully as many a fellow who used to be very fond of me, and now won't speak to me if he meets me in the streets. I never got a chance -- never
But it's not too late yet, Mr Lupex
Yes, it is, Eames -- yes, it is
It's too late now. The game's over, and the match is lost. The talent is here. I'm as sure of that now as ever I was. I've never doubted my own ability -- never for a moment. There are men this very day making a thousand a year off their easels who haven't so good and true an eye in drawing as I have, or so good a feeling in colours. I could name them; only I won't
And why shouldn't you try again
If I were to paint the finest piece that ever delighted the eye of man, who would come and look at it? Who would have enough belief in me to come as far as this place and see if it were true? No, Eames; I know my own position and my own ways, and I know my own weakness. I couldn't do a day's work now, unless I were certain of getting a certain number of shillings at the end of it. That's what a man comes to when things have gone against him
But I thought men got lots of money by scene-painting
I don't know what you may call lots, Mr Cradell; I don't call it lots. But I'm not complaining. I know who I have to thank; and if ever I blow my own brains out I shan't be putting the blame on the wrong shoulders. If you'll take my advice
you'll beware of marrying too soon in life
I think a man should marry early, if he marries well
Don't misunderstand me
It isn't about Mrs L. I'm speaking. I've always regarded my wife as a very fascinating woman
Hear, hear, hear
Indeed she is
And when I caution you against marrying, don't you misunderstand me. I've never said a word against her to any man, and never will. If a man don't stand by his wife, whom will he stand by? I blame no one but myself. But I do say this; I never had a chance -- I never had a chance -- never had a chance
Lupex
what are you doing
Yes, my dear. I can't say I'm doing anything at the present moment. I was giving a little advice to these young gentlemen
Mr Cradell, I wonder at you. And, Mr Eames, I wonder at you, too -- in your position! Lupex, come upstairs at once
Oh, Mr Cradell, do come here
I've been waiting for you this half-hour. I've got such a puzzle for you
Dear me! Here's a change
Changes are so pleasant sometimes! Don't you think so? I do
I don't exactly see, then, where you are to walk
I'll do all I can for her
but I'll not ruin myself
Amelia is coming to take me for a drive
Ah, that'll be very nice
No; it won't be very nice
Amelia is always shopping and bargaining with the tradespeople. But it will be better than being kept in the house without ever stirring out
Yes
it is all very nice, and I don't mind the house being damp; but I get so tired of being alone
That must be the case with women who are married to men of business
Oh, I don't complain. Of course I knew what I was about. I suppose it won't be so very dull when everybody is up in London
I don't find the season makes much difference to us after Christmas
but no doubt London is gayer in May. You'll find you'll like it better next year; and perhaps you'll have a baby, you know
Psha
I don't want a baby, and don't suppose I shall have one
It's always something to do, you know
Why, on earth, on Sunday
Because Amelia asked me for Sunday. If you are asked for Sunday, you cannot say you'll go on Monday
It is so terrible on a Sunday afternoon. At what hour
She said half-past five
Heavens and earth! What are we to do all the evening
It is not kind of you, Adolphus, to speak in that way of my relations
Come, my love, that's a joke; as if I hadn't heard you say the same thing twenty times. You've complained of having to go up there much more bitterly than I ever did. You know I like your sister, and, in his way, Gazebee is a very good fellow; but after three or four hours, one begins to have had enough of him
It can't be much duller than it is
One can always read at home, at any rate
One can't always be reading. However, I have said you would go. If you choose to refuse, you must write and explain
Go with your mother and aunt, De Courcy
There's terrible bad news from Courcy
Why; what's the matter
Porlock has married -- that woman, you know
Nonsense
He has. The old lady has been obliged to tell me, and she's nearly broken-hearted about it. But that's not the worst of it to my mind. All the world knows that Porlock had gone to the mischief. But he is going to bring an action against his father for some arrears of his allowance, and he threatens to have everything out in court, if he doesn't get his money
But is there money due to him? "Yes, there is. A couple of thousand pounds or so. I suppose I shall have to find it. But, upon my honour, I don't know where it's to come from; I don't, indeed. In one way or another, I've paid over fourteen hundred pounds for you
Fourteen hundred pounds
Yes, indeed -- what with the insurance and the furniture, and the bill from our house for the settlements. That's not paid yet, but it's the same thing. A man doesn't get married for nothing, I can tell you
But you've got security
Oh, yes; I've got security. But the thing is the ready money. Our house has advanced so much on the Courcy property, that they don't like going any further; and therefore it is that I have to do this myself. They'll all have to go abroad -- that'll be the end of it. There's been such a scene between the earl and George. George lost his temper and told the earl that Porlock's marriage was his fault. It has ended in George with his wife being turned out
He has money of his own
Yes, but he won't spend it. He's coming up here, and we shall find him hanging about us. I don't mean to give him a bed here, and I advise you not to do so either. You'll not get rid of him if you do
I have the greatest possible dislike to him
Yes; he's a bad fellow. So is John. Porlock was the best, but he's gone altogether to ruin. They've made a nice mess of it between them; haven't they
They're a bad set -- a bad set
The men are
H-m
The countess means well
But she's had a hard life of it -- a very hard life. I've heard him call her names that would frighten a coalheaver. I have, indeed. But he'll die soon, and then she'll be comfortable. She has three thousand a year jointure
George and his wife are coming up to town; couldn't we ask them to come to us for a week or so
No
we will do no such thing
My head is splitting, and Sarah shall bring some tea and toast up to me, if you will not mind it
Oh, by-the-by, Crosbie
I want to say just a few words to you
Do you know
Sit down, won't you
I don't want to find any fault
I hope you have not any cause
No, no; I don't say that I have. But we think at the Board
Stop, stop, Butterwell. If anything unpleasant is coming, it had better come from the Board. I should take it in better spirit; I should, indeed
What takes place at the Board must be official
I should not mind that in the least. I should rather like it than otherwise
It simply amounts to this -- that we think you are taking a little too much on yourself. No doubt, it's a fault on the right side, and arises from your wishing to have the work well done
And if I don't do it, who will
The Board is very well able to get through all that appertains to it. Come, Crosbie, you and I have known each other a great many years, and it would be pity that we should have any words. I have come to you in this way because it would be disagreeable to you to have any question raised officially. Optimist isn't given to being very angry, but he was downright angry yesterday. You had better take what I say in good part, and go along a little quieter
I have done my duty to the best of my ability, Mr Butterwell
Oh! very well
I can only, under such circumstances, speak to the Chairman, and he will tell you what he thinks at the Board. I think you're foolish; I do, indeed. As for myself, I have only meant to act kindly by you
Mr Crosbie
we are all very much gratified -- very much gratified, indeed -- by your zeal and energy in the service
Thank you, sir
I am fond of the service
Exactly, exactly; we all feel that. But we think that you -- if I were to say take too much upon yourself, I should say, perhaps, more than we mean
Don't say more than you mean, Mr Optimist
No, no, no
I would say rather less than more to so very good a public servant as yourself. But you, doubtless, understand me
I don't think I do quite, sir. If I have not taken too much on me, what is it that I have done that I ought not to have done
You have given directions in many cases for which you ought first to have received authority. Here is an instance
If you wish me
to confine myself exactly to the positive instructions of the office, I will do so; but I think you will find it inconvenient
Very well
it shall be done
I haven't been out of the house all day
and that has made it worse
I don't know how you are to get out if you won't walk
Mamma, read that letter
It is, at any rate, a good letter, and, as I believe, tells the truth
I think it tells a little more than the truth, mamma. As you say, it is a well-written letter. He always writes well when he is in earnest. But yet
Yet what, my dear
There is more head than heart in it
If so, he will suffer the less; that is, if you are quite resolved in the matter
I am quite resolved, and I do not think he will suffer much. He would not, I suppose, have taken the trouble to write like that, if he did not wish this thing
I am quite sure that he does wish it, most earnestly; and that he will be greatly disappointed
As he would be if any other scheme did not turn out to his satisfaction; that is all
Answer him kindly
As kindly as I know how
I wish you would write the letter, mamma
I fear that would not do. What I should say would only tempt him to try again
I know what you would wish, mamma
I have but one wish, dearest, and that is for your happiness. May God preserve you from any such fate as Lily's. When I tell you to write kindly to your cousin, I simply mean that I think him to have deserved a kind reply by his honesty
It shall be as kind as I can make it, mamma; but you know what the lady says in the play -- how hard it is to take the sting from that word 'no
from such a sharp and waspish word as 'no
It will be better to make him understand that I, also, am in earnest
Pray do not allow yourself to think that what I have said is unfriendly
I know how good you are, and I know the great value of what I refuse; but in this matter it must be my duty to tell you the simple truth
There is no favour conferred -- none at all
There is a favour, a great favour, and great generosity
No more need be said about that. All that may come right yet, if you will remain where you are
Lord bless ee
whenever I look at thee, Miss Lily, I thinks that surely thee is the beautifulest young 'ooman in all these parts
And you are the crossest old woman
So I be
So I be
My dearest Lily, we have all been made so unhappy
Minnie
what do you think Tartar did yesterday? I never laughed so much in my life
Mamma
are you sure that these things are ours? I think some of them belong to the house
I'm sure about that bowl at any rate, because it was my mother's before I was married
Oh, dear, what should I do if I were to break it? Whenever I handle anything very precious I always feel inclined to throw it down and smash it. Oh! it was as nearly gone as possible, mamma; but that was your fault
If you don't take care you'll be nearly gone yourself. Do take hold of something
Oh, Bell, here's the inkstand for which you've been moaning for three years
Catch it
So you're all at work
Yes, we're at work
If it is to be done it is as well that it should be got over
It makes me wretched enough
But I didn't come to talk about that. I've brought you a note from Lady Julia de Guest, and I've had one from the earl. They want us all to go there and stay the week after Easter
Perhaps we shall get game sent to us, and that will be better
Wants us all
How many does the all mean
Do let me see, mamma
It is out of the question that we should go, mamma -- that is, all of us
Why out of the question
A whole family
That is just what they want
I should like of all things to be left alone for a week
if mamma and Bell would go
That wouldn't do at all
Lady Julia specially wants you to be one of the party
It would be out of the question a whole family going in that way, but it would be very nice for Bell
No, it would not
Don't be ungenerous about it, my dear
Lady Julia means to be kind. But, my darling
but, my darling, why should you not go? A change of scene like that will do you all the good in the world, just when you are getting well. Mary, tell the girls they ought to go
Uncle
do not be angry with me. I can't go
Cannot you, my darling
No, uncle. It is very kind -- very kind; but I cannot go. I am not fit to go anywhere
But you should get over that feeling. You should make a struggle
I am struggling, and I shall succeed; but I cannot do it all at once. At any rate I could not go there. You must give my love to Lady Julia, and not let her think me cross. Perhaps Bell will go
I will leave you to talk it over among yourselves
But, Mary, you had better see me before you send your answer. If you will come up by-and-by, Ralph shall take the two notes over together in the afternoon
Lily, dear
this is meant for kindness to you -- for most affectionate kindness
I know it, mamma; and you must go to Lady Julia, and must tell her that I know it. You must give her my love. And, indeed, I do love her now. But
You won't go, Lily
No, mamma; certainly I will not go
Leave it with me
that is, if you do not object
Oh dear, no
I'll tell you the plain truth at once, Mary. I shall go over myself with it, and see the earl. Then I will decline it or not, according to what passes between me and him. I wish Lily would have gone
Ah! she could not
I wish she could. I wish she could. I wish she could
The truth is
she could not go there to meet John Eames
Oh, I know
I understand it. But that is just what we want her to do. Why should she not spend a week in the same house with an honest young man whom we all like
There are reasons why she would not wish it
Ah, exactly; the very reasons which should make us induce her to go there if we can. Perhaps I had better tell you all. Lord de Guest has taken him by the hand, and wishes him to marry. He has promised to settle on him an income which will make him comfortable for life
That is very generous; and I am delighted to hear it -- for John's sake
And they have promoted him at his office
Ah! then he will do well
He will do very well. He is private secretary now to their head man. And, Mary, so that she, Lily, should not be empty -- handed if their marriage can be arranged, I have undertaken to settle a hundred a year on her -- on her and her children, if she will accept him. Now you know it all. I did not mean to tell you; but it is as well that you should have the means of judging. That other man was a villain. This man is honest. Would it not be well that she should learn to like him? She always did like him, I thought, before that other fellow came down here among us
She has always liked him -- as a friend
She will never get a better lover
It is not possible for her
I fear it is not possible. It is too soon
Six months
It will take years -- not months
And she will lose all her youth
Yes; he has done all that by his treachery. But it is done, and we cannot now go back. She loves him yet as dearly as she ever loved him
But you can understand
that she cannot bring herself to go there
And will you go to Guestwick yourself
I will take the note
and will let you know tomorrow. The earl has behaved so kindly that every possible consideration is due to him. I had better tell him the whole truth, and go or stay, as he may wish. I don't see the good of going. What am I to do at Guestwick Manor? I did think that if we had all been there it might have cured some difficulties
I do not know what I ought to say to you for your kindness
Say nothing -- either for my kindness or unkindness; but stay where you are, and let us live like Christians together, striving to think good and not evil
At any rate I will not think evil
Mamma
you must not go in there; come into the parlour
Who's there? Where's Bell
But who is there
He's there
Who is he
Oh, mamma, don't be a goose! Dr Crofts is there, of course. He's been nearly an hour. I wonder how he is managing, for there is nothing on earth to sit upon but the old lump of a carpet. The room is strewed about with crockery, and Bell is such a figure! She has got on your old checked apron, and when he came in she was rolling up the fire-irons in brown paper. I don't suppose she was ever in such a mess before. There's one thing certain -- he can't kiss her hand
It's you are the goose, Lily
But he's in there certainly, unless he has gone out through the window, or up the chimney
What made you leave them
He met me here, in the passage, and spoke to me ever so seriously. Come in, I said, and see Bell packing the pokers and tongs. I will go in, he said, but don't come with me. He was ever so serious, and I'm sure he had been thinking of it all the way along
And why should he not be serious
Oh, no, of course he ought to be serious; but are you not glad, mamma? I am so glad. We shall live alone together, you and I; but she will be so close to us! My belief is that he'll stay there for ever unless somebody does something. I have been so tired of waiting and looking out for you. Perhaps he's helping her to pack the things. Don't you think we might go in; or would it be ill-natured? "Lily, don't be in too great a hurry to say anything. You may be mistaken, you know; and there's many a slip between the cup and the lip
Yes, mamma, there is
that's true enough
Oh, my darling, forgive me
Do not mind it
it does not hurt me, it does me good; that is to say, when there is nobody by except yourself. But, with God's help, there shall be no slip here, and she shall be happy. It is all the difference between one thing done in a hurry, and another done with much thinking. But they'll remain there for ever if we don't go in. Come, mamma, you open the door
How do you do, doctor
I have just come down from the Great House
Mamma
you must not call him doctor any more
Must I not? Has any one undoctored him
Oh, mamma, you understand
I understand
he is to be my brother, and I mean to claim him as such from this moment. I expect him to do everything for us, and not to call a moment of his time his own
Mrs Dale
Bell has consented that it shall be so, if you will consent
There is but little doubt of that
We shall not be rich
I hate to be rich
I hate even to talk about it. I don't think it quite manly even to think about it; and I'm sure it isn't womanly
Bell was always a fanatic in praise of poverty
No; I'm no fanatic. I'm very fond of money earned. I would like to earn some myself if I knew how
Let her go out and visit the lady patients
They do in America
That would be hardly possible
It only wants three weeks -- and with the house in such a condition
James is joking
I was not joking at all
Why not send for Mr Boyce, and carry her off at once on a pillion behind you
It's just the sort of thing for primitive people to do, like you and Bell. All the same, Bell, I do wish you could have been married from this house
I don't think it will make much difference
Only if you would have waited till summer we would have had such a nice party on the lawn. It sounds so ugly, being married from lodgings; doesn't it, mamma
It doesn't sound at all ugly to me
I shall always call you Dame Commonplace when you're married
Now may I talk about him
No; you may not
As if I hadn't known it all along! And wasn't it hard to bear that you should have scolded me with such pertinacious austerity, and that I wasn't to say a word in answer
I don't remember the austerity
Nor yet Lily's silence
But it's all settled now
and I'm downright happy. I never felt more satisfaction -- never, Bell
Nor did I
I may truly say that I thank God for this good thing
Don't tell any of the fellows
but I'm going to cut the concern altogether. My governor wouldn't let me stop here in any other place than that of private secretary
Ah, your governor is a swell
I don't know about that
Of course he has a good deal of family interest. My cousin is to come in for St. Bungay at the next election, and then I can do better than remain here
That's a matter of course
If my cousin were Member for St Bungay, I'd never stand anything east of Whitehall
And I don't mean
This room, you know, is all very nice; but it is a bore coming into the City every day. And then one doesn't like to be rung for like a servant. Not that I mean to put you out of conceit with it
It will do very well for me
I never was very particular
I won't drop him
but he is a poor creature
Ah
Ah, let me see! You are going out of town the day after tomorrow
Yes, Sir Raffle, the day after tomorrow
Ah! it's a great annoyance -- a very great annoyance. But on such occasions I never think of myself. I never have done so, and don't suppose I ever shall. So you're going down to my old friend De Guest
I am going down to Guestwick
Ah! yes; to Guestwick Manor? I don't remember that I was ever there. I dare say I may have been, but one forgets those things
I never heard Lord de Guest speak of it
Oh, dear, no. Why should his memory be better than mine? Tell him, will you, how very glad I shall be to renew our old intimacy. I should think nothing of running down to him for a day or two in the dull time of the year -- say in September or October. It's rather a coincidence our both being interested about you -- isn't it? "I'll be sure to tell him
Mind you do. He's one of our most thoroughly independent noblemen, and I respect him very highly. Let me see; didn't I ring my bell? What was it I wanted? I think I rang my bell
You did ring your bell
Ah, yes; I know. I am going away, and I wanted my would you tell Rafferty to bring me -- my boots
And I shan't be here tomorrow
I'll thank you to send my letters up to the square; and if they should send down from the Treasury -- but the Chancellor would write, and in that case you'll send up his letter at once by a special messenger, of course
Here's Rafferty
Oh, ah, yes; Rafferty, bring me my boots
Anything else to say
No, nothing else. Of course you'll be careful to leave everything straight behind you
Oh, yes; I'll leave it all straight
He'll not do
He'll never do. He's not quick enough -- has no go in him. He's not man enough for the place. I wonder why the earl has taken him by the hand in that way
Mrs Roper
I'm going out of town the day after tomorrow
Oh, yes, Mr Eames, we know that. You're going as a visitor to the noble mansion of the Earl de Guest
I don't know about the mansion being very noble, but I'm going down into the country for a fortnight. When I come back
I know it isn't quite what it should be for a gentleman like you, and I've been thinking for some time past
But, Mrs Roper, I don't mean to come back here any more. It's just that that I want to say to you
Not come back to the crescent
No, Mrs Roper. A fellow must move sometimes, you know; and I'm sure I've been very constant to you for a long time
But where are you going, Mr Eames
Well; I haven't just made up my mind as yet. That is, it will depend on what I may do -- on what friends of mine may say down in the country. You'll not think I'm quarrelling with you, Mrs Roper
It's them Lupexes as have done it
No, indeed, Mrs Roper, nobody has done it
Yes, it is; and I'm not going to blame you, Mr Eames. They've made the house unfit for any decent young gentleman like you. I've been feeling that all along; but it's hard upon a lone woman like me, isn't it, Mr Eames? "But, Mrs Roper, the Lupexes have had nothing to do with my going
Oh, yes, they have; I understand it all. But what could I do, Mr Eames? I've been giving them warning every week for the last six months; but the more I give them warning, the more they won't go. Unless I were to send for a policeman, and have a row in the house
But I haven't complained of the Lupexes, Mrs Roper
You wouldn't be quitting without any reason, Mr Eames. You are not going to be married in earnest, are you, Mr Eames
Not that I know of
You may tell me; you may, indeed. I won't say a word -- not to anybody. It hasn't been my fault about Amelia. It hasn't really
Who says there's been any fault
I can see, Mr Eames. Of course it didn't do for me to interfere. And if you had liked her, I will say I believe she'd have made as good a wife as any young man ever took; and she can make a few pounds go farther than most girls. You can understand a mother's feelings; and if there was to be anything, I couldn't spoil it; could I, now
But there isn't to be anything
So I've told her for months past. I'm not going to say anything to blame you; but young men ought to be very particular; indeed they ought
I've wished many a time, Mr Eames, that she had never come here; indeed I have. But what's a mother to do? I couldn't put her outside the door
I'm very sorry if I've made any mischief
It hasn't been your fault
Nor it hasn't been my fault. But I knew what it would come to when I saw how she was going on; and I told her so. I knew you wouldn't put up with the likes of her
Indeed, Mrs Roper, I've always had a great regard for her, and for you too
But you weren't going to marry her. I've told her so all along, and I've begged her not to do it -- almost on my knees I have; but she wouldn't be said by me. She never would. She's always been that wilful that I'd sooner have her away from me than with me. Though she's a good young woman in the house -- she is, indeed, Mr Eames -- and there isn't a pair of hands in it that works so hard; but it was no use my talking
I don't think any harm has been done
Yes, there has; great harm. It has made the place not respectable. It's the Lupexes is the worst. There's Miss Spruce, who has been with me for nine years -- ever since I've had the house -- she's been telling me this morning that she means to go into the country. It's all the same thing. I under stand it. I can see it. The house isn't respectable, as it should be; and your mamma, if she were to know all, would have a right to be angry with me. I did mean to be respectable, Mr Eames; I did indeed
Miss Spruce will think better of it
You don't know what I've had to go through. There's none of them pays, not regular -- only she and you. She's been like the Bank of England, has Miss Spruce
I'm afraid I've not been very regular, Mrs Roper
Oh, yes, you have. I don't think of a pound or two more or less at the end of a quarter, if I'm sure to have it some day, The butcher -- he understands one's lodgers just as well as I do -- if the money's really coming, he'll wait; but he won't wait for such as them Lupexes, whose money's nowhere. And there's Cradell; would you believe it, that fellow owes me eight-and-twenty pounds
Eight and twenty pounds
Yes, Mr Eames, eight-and-twenty pounds! He's a fool. It's them Lupexes as have had his money. I know it. He don't talk of paying, and going away. I shall be just left with him and the Lupexes on my hands; and then the bailiffs may come and sell every stick about the place. I won't say nay to them
I think I'll go upstairs, and get ready for dinner
And you must go away when you come back
Well, yes, I'm afraid I must. I meant you to have a month's warning from today. Of course I shall pay for the month
I don't want to take any advantage; indeed, I don't. But I do hope you'll leave your things. You can have them whenever you like. If Chumpend knows that you and Miss Spruce are both going, of course he'll be down upon me for his money
A fine day, Miss Spruce
Yes, Mr Eames, it is a fine day for London; but don't you think the country air is very nice
Give me the town
You're a young man, Mr Eames; but I'm an old woman. That makes a difference
Not much
You don't like to be dull any more than I do
I like to be respectable, Mr Eames. I always have been respectable, Mr Eames
I'm sure Mrs Roper is very respectable
Yes; Mrs Roper is respectable, Mr Eames; but there are some here that -- Hush-sh-sh
How d'ye do, Miss Spruce? I declare you're always first. It's to get a chance of having one of the young gentlemen to yourself, I believe. What's the news in the city today, Mr Eames? In your position now of course you hear all the news
Sir Raffle Buffle has got a new pair of shoes. I don't know that for certain, but I guess it from the time it took him to put them on
Ah! now you're quizzing. That's always the way with you gentlemen when you get a little up in the world. You don't think women are worth talking to then, unless just for a joke or so
I'd a great deal sooner talk to you, Mrs Lupex, than I would to Sir Raffle Buffle
It's all very well for you to say that. But we women know what such compliments as those mean -- don't we, Miss Spruce? A woman that's been married five years as I have -- or I may say six -- doesn't expect much attention from young men. And though I was young when I married -- young in years, that is -- I'd seen too much and gone through too much to be young in heart
I don't know what you were then, Mrs Lupex
but you're young enough now for anything
Mr Eames, I'd sell all that remains of my youth at a cheap rate -- at a very cheap rate, if I could only be sure of
Sure of what, Mrs Lupex
The undivided affection of the one person that I loved. That is all that is necessary to a woman's happiness
And isn't Lupex
Lupex! But hush, never mind. I should not have allowed myself to be betrayed into an expression of feeling. Here's your friend Mr Cradell. Do you know I sometimes wonder what you find in that man to be so fond of him
He's down there
and wants to see you most partic'lar
Which of 'em? "asked Amelia, in a whisper. "Why, Mr Heames, to be sure. Don't you go and have anythink to say to the other one, Miss Mealyer, pray don't; he ain't no good; he ain't indeed
He's there a-waiting, Miss Mealyer. Why don't yer come down
I am coming
Here she is, Mr Heames
You have sent for me, Mr Eames
I was engaged upstairs, but I thought it uncivil not to come down to you as you sent for me so special
Yes, Miss Roper, I did want to see you very particularly
Oh, dear
I saw your mother before dinner, and I told her that I am going away the day after tomorrow
We all know about that -- to the earl's, of course
And I told her also that I had made up my mind not to come back to Burton Crescent
What! leave the house altogether
Well; yes. A fellow must make a change sometimes, you know
And where are you going, John
That I don't know as yet
Tell me the truth, John; are you going to be married? Are you -- going -- to marry -- that young woman -- Mr Crosbie's leavings? I demand to have an answer at once. Are you going to marry her
I have not come
to speak to you about any one but ourselves
That put-off won't do with me, sir. You are not to treat any girl you may please in that sort of way -- oh, John
I know I haven't behaved quite as I should have done
Oh, John
You mean, then, to tell me that you are going to marry her
I mean to say nothing of the kind -- I only mean to say that I am going away from Burton Crescent
John Eames, I wonder what you think will come to you! Will you answer me this; have I had a promise from you -- a distinct promise, over and over again, or have I not
I don't know about a distinct promise
Well, well! I did think that you was a gentleman that would not go back from your word. I did think that. I did think that you would never put a young lady to the necessity of bringing forward her own letters to prove that she is not expecting more than she has a right! You don't know! And that, after all that has been between us! John Eames
I tell you that I know I haven't behaved well. What more can I say
What more can you say? Oh, John! to ask me such a question! If you were a man you would know very well what more to say. But all you private secretaries are given to deceit, as the sparks fly upwards. However, I despise you -- I do, indeed. I despise you
If you despise me, we might as well shake hands and part at once. I dare say that will be best. One doesn't like to be despised, of course; but sometimes one can't help it
And is this to be the end of all
Well, yes; I suppose so. You say I'm despised
You shouldn't take up a poor girl in that way for a sharp word -- not when she is suffering as I am made to suffer. If you only think of it -- think what I have been expecting
It is better to tell the truth
isn't it
But it shouldn't be the truth
But it is the truth. I couldn't do it. I should ruin myself and you too, and we should never be happy
I should be happy -- very happy indeed
It cannot be, Amelia. Will you not say good-bye
Good-bye
I do so hope you will be happy
My dear Mr Eames
I cannot tell you how glad we are to see you
Vickers shall show you your room, if you like to go upstairs; but you'll find my brother close about the house if you choose to go out; I saw him not half an hour since
And now that you're a private secretary, how do you like it
I like the work well enough; only I don't like the man, Lady Julia. But I shouldn't say so, because he is such an intimate friend of your brother's
An intimate friend of Theodore's!-- Sir Raffle Buffle
At any rate he tells me so about four times a day, Lady Julia. And he particularly wants to come down here next September
Did he tell you that, too
Indeed he did. You can't believe what a goose he is! Then his voice sounds like a cracked bell; it's the most disagreeable voice you ever heard in your life. And one has always to be on one's guard lest he should make one do something that is -- is -- that isn't quite the thing for a gentleman. You understand -- what the messenger ought to do
You shouldn't be too much afraid of your own dignity
No, I'm not. If Lord de Guest were to ask me to fetch him his shoes, I'd run to Guestwick and back for them and think nothing of it -- just because he's my friend. He'd have a right to send me. But I'm not going to do such things as that for Sir Raffle Buffle
Fetch him his shoes
That's what FitzHoward had to do, and he didn't like it
Isn't Mr FitzHoward nephew to the Duchess of St Bungay
Nephew, or cousin, or something
Dear me
what a horrible man
Thrashed anybody lately, John
Nobody to speak of
Brought your nightcap down for your out-o'-doors nap
No, but I've got a grand stick for the bull
Ah! that's no joke now, I can tell you
We had to sell him, and it half broke my heart. We don't know what had come to him, but he became quite unruly after that -- knocked Darvel down in the straw-yard! It was a very bad business -- a very bad business, indeed! Come, go and dress. Do you remember how you came down to dinner that day? I shall never forget how Crofts stared at you. Come, you've only got twenty minutes, and you London fellows always want an hour
He's entitled to some consideration now he's a private secretary
Bless us all! yes; I forgot that. Come, Mr Private Secretary, don't stand on the grandeur of your neck -- tie today, as there's nobody here but ourselves. You shall have an opportunity tomorrow
I'll tell you now what I have arranged
The squire is to be here tomorrow with his eldest niece -- your Miss Lily's sister, you know
What, Bell
Yes, with Bell, if her name is Bell. She's a very pretty girl, too. I don't know whether she's not the prettiest of the two, after all
That's a matter of opinion
Just so, Johnny; and do you stick to your own. They're coming here for three or four days. Lady Julia did ask Mrs Dale and Lily. I wonder whether you'll let me call her Lily
Oh, dear! I wish I might have the power of letting you
That's just the battle that you've got to fight. But the mother and the younger sister wouldn't come. Lady Julia says it's all right -- that, as a matter of course, she wouldn't come when she heard you were to be here. I don't quite understand it. In my days the young girls were ready enough to go where they knew they'd meet their lovers, and I never thought any the worse of them for it
It wasn't because of that
That's what Lady Julia says, and I always find her to be right in things of that sort. And she says you'll have a better chance in going over there than you would here, if she were in the same house with you. If I was going to make love to a girl, of course I'd sooner have her close to me -- staying in the same house. I should think it the best fun in the world. And we might have had a dance, and all that kind of thing. But I couldn't make her come, you know
Oh, no; of course not
And Lady Julia thinks that it's best as it is. You must go over, you know, and get the mother on your side, if you can. I take it, the truth is this -- you mustn't be angry with me, you know, for saying it
You may be sure of that
I suppose she was fond of that fellow, Crosbie. She can't be very fond of him now, I should think, after the way he has treated her; but she'll find a difficulty in making her confession that she really likes you better than she ever liked him. Of course that's what you'll want her to say
I want her to say that she'll be my wife -- some day
And when she has agreed to the some day, then you'll begin to press her to agree to your day -- eh, sir? My belief is you'll bring her round. Poor girl! why should she break her heart when a decent fellow like you will only be too glad to make her a happy woman
Could it be possible
that in a fortnight's time Lily Dale should have accepted him as her future husband
I'm afraid she won't bring herself to forget him
She'll only be too happy to forget him
if you can induce her to begin the attempt. Of course it is very bitter at first -- all the world knew about it; but, poor girl, she is not to be wretched for ever, because of that. Do you go about your work with some little confidence, and I doubt not but what you'll have your way. You have everybody in your favour -- the squire, her mother, and all
Of course I shall go to her
and make a plain story of it. But I know what her answer will be. She will tell me that she cannot forget him
Go when you like
There's the brown cob for you to do what you like with him while you are here
I'll go and see my mother
but I won't take the cob today. If you'll let me have him tomorrow, I'll ride to Allington
I wonder whether she will come here with me and let me show it to her
Indeed, the thing's done
and you've got to receive the dividends as they become due
If he finds his way down here in September, Master Johnny, or in any other month either, you may fit my head with a foolscap. Not remember, indeed! Is it not wonderful that any man should make himself so mean a fool
Of course you know, John
that we are going to dine at the Manor this evening
Of course we are going
and it was so very kind. But I've never been out to such a house for so many years, John, and I do feel in such a twitter. I dined there once, soon after we were married; but I never have been there since that
It's not the earl I mind, but Lady Julia
She's the most good-natured woman in the world
Oh, dear; people say she is so cross
That's because people don't know her. If I was asked who is the kindest-hearted woman I know in the world, I think I should say Lady Julia de Guest. I think I should
Ah! but then they're so fond of you
You saved his lordship's life -- under Providence
That's all bosh, mother. You ask Dr Crofts. He knows them as well as I do
Dr Crofts is going to marry Bell Dale
Crofts going to marry Bell
Yes
and they say that she has refused her cousin Bernard, and that, therefore, the squire is taking away the house from them. You know they're all coming into Guestwick
Yes, I know they are. But I don't believe that the squire is taking away the house
Why should they come then? Why should they give up such a charming place as that
Rent-free
I don't know why they should come away; but I can't believe the squire is turning them out; at any rate not for that reason
He is a very stern man
Poor Lily
I do pity her. If I was her. I should hardly know how to show my face; I shouldn't, indeed
And why shouldn't she show her face
What has she done to be ashamed of? Show her face indeed! I cannot understand the spite which one woman will sometimes have to another
There is no spite, John; and it's very wrong of you to say so
But it is a very unpleasant thing for a girl to be jilted. All the world knows that she was engaged to him
And all the world knows
Oh, of course you are her champion
And I didn't mean to say anything unkind. Indeed I didn't. Of course it was a misfortune
I think it was the best piece of good fortune that could have happened to her, not to marry a d ----- scoundrel like
Oh, John
I beg your pardon, mother. But it isn't swearing to call such a man as that a d ----- scoundrel
But we won't talk any more about him. I hate the man's very name. I hated him the first moment that I saw him, and knew that he was a blackguard from his look. And I don't believe a word about the squire having been cross to them. Indeed I know he has been the reverse of cross. So Bell is going to marry Dr Crofts
There is no doubt on earth about that
And they say that Bernard Dale is going abroad with his regiment
I suppose it isn't nice enough for you now, John
It never was very nice, mother, to tell you the truth. There were people there -- But you mustn't think I am turning up my nose because I'm getting grand. I don't want to live any better than we all lived at Mrs Roper's; but she took in persons that were not agreeable. There is a Mr and Mrs Lupex there
Here comes the prince of matadores
No, my lord; you're the prince. I'm only your first follower
I'm very glad to see you, John
very glad indeed
And so am I
I have been so happy to hear that you have been promoted at your office, and so is mamma
I hope Mrs Dale is quite well
and Lily
My sister has been very ill, you know -- with scarlatina. But she has recovered with wonderful quickness, and is nearly well again now. She will be so glad to see you if you will go over
Yes; I shall certainly go over
And now shall I show you your room, Miss Dale
I could have wished that it might have been otherwise
as you are well aware. I had family reasons for wishing that it might be otherwise. But I have nothing to say against it. Dr Crofts, as her husband, shall be welcome to my house
I have not a word to say against her
You were his favourite, but Lily will be so now
I don't care a bit about that -- or, rather, I do care, and think it will be in every way better. But as I, who am the naughty one, will go away, and as Lily, who is the good one, will remain with you, doesn't it almost seem a pity that you should be leaving the house
You think Lily will remain
Yes, mamma; I feel sure she will
She was always very fond of John Eames -- and he is doing so well
It will be of no use, mamma. She is fond of him -- very fond. In a sort of a way she loves him -- so well, that I feel sure she never mentions his name without some inward reference to her old childish thoughts and fancies. If he had come before Mr Crosbie it would have all been well with her. But she cannot do it now. Her pride would prevent her, even if her heart permitted it. Oh! dear; it's very wrong of me to say so, after all that I have said before; but I almost wish you were not going. Uncle Christopher seems to be less hard than he used to be; and as I was the sinner, and as I am disposed of
It is too late now, my dear
And we should neither of us have the courage to mention it to Lily
Mary
I shall do for Bell exactly what I have proposed to do for Lily. I had intended more than that once, of course. But then it would all have gone into Bernard's pocket; as it is, it shall make no difference between them. They shall each have a hundred a year -- that is, when they marry. You had better tell Crofts to speak to me
Mr Dale, he doesn't expect it. He does not expect a penny
So much the better for him; and, indeed, so much the better for her. He won't make her the less welcome to his home because she brings some assistance to it
We have never thought of it -- any of us. The offer has come so suddenly that I don't know what I ought to say
Say -- nothing. If you choose to make me a return for it -- but I am only doing what I conceive to be my duty, and have no right to ask for a kindness in return
But what kindness can we show you, Mr Dale
Remain in that house
Remain in that house
We have done so much now
Well, well, well. I did not mean to speak about that. Things are unpacked easier than they are packed. But, however -- Never mind. Bell is to go with me this afternoon to Guestwick Manor. Let her be up here at two. Grimes can bring her box round, I suppose
Oh, yes: of course
And don't be talking to her about money before she starts. I had rather you didn't -- you understand. But when you see Crofts, tell him to come to me. Indeed, he'd better come at once, if this thing is to go on quickly
I shall thank him at once
and tell him that I did not at all expect it, but am not too proud to accept it
Pray don't, my dear; not just now. I am breaking a sort of promise in telling you at all -- only I could not keep it to myself. And he has so many things to worry him! Though he says nothing about it now, he has half broken his heart about you and Bernard
The tone of his voice as he spoke brought tears into my eyes. I almost wish we had not done anything
But, mamma
what difference can it make to him? You know that our presence near him was always a trouble to him. He never really wanted us. He liked to have Bell there when he thought that Bell would marry his pet
Don't be unkind, Lily
I don't mean to be unkind. Why shouldn't Bernard be his pet? I love Bernard dearly, and always thought it the best point in Uncle Christopher that he was so fond of him. I knew, you know, that it was no use. Of course I knew it, as I understood all about somebody else. But Bernard is his pet
He's fond of you all, in his own way
But is he fond of you?-- that's the question
We could have forgiven him anything done to us, and have put up with any words he might have spoken to us, because he regards us as children. His giving a hundred a year to Bell won't make you comfortable in this house if he still domineers over you. If a neighbour be neighbourly, near neighbourhood is very nice. But Uncle Christopher has not been neighbourly. He has wanted to be more than an uncle to us, on condition that he might be less than a brother to you. Bell and I have always felt that his regard on such terms was not worth having
I almost feel that we have been wrong
but in truth I never thought that the matter would be to him one of so much moment
I think Hopkins will miss us more than any one else
Hopkins will have no one to scold
You must come round
It's too cold for the window to he opened. I always like to get him into the house, because he feels himself a little abashed by the chairs and tables; or, perhaps, it is the carpet that is too much for him. Out on the gravel-walks he is such a terrible tyrant, and in the greenhouse he almost tramples upon one
So you be going in earnest, ma'am
Yes, Hopkins, we are going in a very few days, now. We shall see you sometimes, I hope, over at Guestwick
Humph
So you be really going! I didn't think it'd ever come to that, miss; I didn't indeed -- and no more it oughtn't; but of course it isn't for me to speak
People must change their residence sometimes, you know
Well, ma'am; it ain't for me to say anything. But this I will say, I've lived here about t squire's place, man and boy, just all my life, seeing I was born here, as you knows, Mrs Dale; and of all the bad things I ever see come about the place, this is a sight the worst
Oh, Hopkins
The worst of all, ma'am; the worst of all! It'll just kill t' squire! There's ne'ery doubt in the world about that. It'll be the very death of t' old man
That's nonsense, Hopkins
Very well, miss. I don't say but what it is nonsense; only you'll see. There's Mr Bernard -- he's gone away; and by all accounts he never did care very much for the place. They say all he's a-going to the Hingies. And Miss Bell is going to be married -- which is all proper, in course: why shouldn't she? And why shouldn't you, too, Miss Lily
Perhaps I shall, some day, Hopkins
There's no day like the present, Miss Lily. And I do say this, that the man as pitched into him would be the man for my money
But
that's all as it may be, Miss Lily, and you be in the hands of Providence -- as is others
Exactly so, Hopkins
But why should your mamma be all for going away? She ain't going to marry no one. Here's the house, and there's she, and there'st's quire; and why should she be for going away? So much going away all at once can't be for any good. It's just a breaking up of everything, as though nothing wasn't good enough for nobody. I never went away, and I can't abide it
Well, Hopkins; it's settled now
and I'm afraid it can't be unsettled
Settled -- well. Tell me this: do you expect, Mrs Dale, that he's to live there all alone by hisself without any one to say a cross word to -- unless it be me or Dingles; for Jolliffe's worse than nobody, he's so mortial cross hisself. Of course he can't stand it. If you goes away, Mrs Dale; Mister Bernard, he'll be squire in less than twelve months. He'll come back from the Hingies, then, I suppose
I don't think my brother-in-law will take it in that way, Hopkins
A, ma'am, you don't know him -- not as I knows him -- all the ins and outs and crinks and crannies of him. I knows him as I does the old apple-trees that I've been a-handling for forty year. There's a deal of bad wood about them old cankered trees, and some folk say they ain't worth the ground they stand on; but I know where the sap runs, and when the fruit-blossom shows itself I know where the fruit will be the sweetest. It don't take much to kill one of them old trees -- but there's life in 'm yet if they be well handled
I'm sure I hope my brother's life may be long spared to him
Then don't be taking yourself away, ma'am, into them gashly lodgings at Guestwick. I says they are gashly for the likes of a Dale. It is not for me to speak, ma'am, of course. And I only came up now just to know what things you'd like with you out of the greenhouse
Oh, nothing, Hopkins, thank you
He told me to put up for you the best I could pick, and I means to do it
We shan't have any place for them
I must send a few, miss, just to cheer you up a bit. I fear you'll be very dolesome there. And the doctor -- he ain't got what you can call a regular garden, but there is a bit of a place behind
But we wouldn't rob the dear old place
For the matter of that what does it signify? T'squire'll be that wretched he'll turn sheep in here to destroy the place, or he'll have the garden ploughed. You see if he don't. As for the place, the place is clean done for, if you leave it. You don't suppose he'll go and let the Small House to strangers. T'squire ain't one of that sort any ways
Ah me
What is it, mamma? He's a dear old man, but surely what he says cannot make you really unhappy
It is so hard to know what one ought to do. I did not mean to be selfish, but it seems to me as though I were doing the most selfish thing in the world
Nay, mamma; it has been anything but selfish. Besides, it is we that have done it; not you
Do you know, Lily, that I also have that feeling as to breaking up one's old mode of life of which Hopkins spoke. I thought that I should be glad to escape from this place, but now that the time has come I dread it
Do you mean that you repent
Yes, Lily; I think I do repent. I think that it has not been well done
Then let it be undone
my lord
Uncommon good stewed beef
why can't we have our beef stewed like that
Because we don't pay our cook sixty pounds a year
A woman with sixteen pounds can stew beef as well as a woman with sixty
she only wants looking after
I must get you to come round with me, Dale, and see what I am doing to the land
You had better wait for luncheon, now
And she is not like other girls
She won't care for my boots being dirty
Stand up to her boldly, man
By George, what is there to be afraid of? It's my belief they'll give most to those who ask for most. There's nothing sets' em against a man like being sheepish
Not that any resolution will be of any use
When the moment comes I know that I shall tremble before her, and I know that she'll see it; but I don't think it will make any difference in her
that man
that man's house
I told her that I loved her then
though I had no right to do so. At any rate I have a right to tell her now
Why, if that b'aint Mr Eames
Mr John, may I make so bold
I'm just going to call at the Small House, and I thought I'd come this way
To be sure; this way, or that way, or any way, who's so welcome, Mr John? I envies you; I envies you more than I envies any man. If I could a got him by the scuff of the neck, I'd a treated him jist like any wermin -- I would, indeed! He was wermin! I ollays said it. I hated him ollays! I did indeed, Mr John, from the first moment when he used to be nigging away at them foutry balls, knocking them in among the rhododendrons, as though there weren't no flower blossoms for next year. He never looked at one as though one were a Christian; did he, Mr John
I wasn't very fond of him myself, Hopkins
Of course you weren't very fond of him. Who was?-- only she, poor young lady. She'll be better now, Mr John, a deal better. He wasn't a wholesome lover -- not like you are. Tell me, Mr John, did you give it him well when you got him? I heard you did -- two black eyes, and all his face one mash of gore
My dear, there is John Eames
Don't go, mamma
I don't know; perhaps it will be better that I should
No, mamma, no; what good can it do? It can do no good. I like him as well as I can like any one. I love him dearly. But it can do no good. Let him come in here, and be very kind to him; but do not go away and leave us. Of course I knew he would come, and I shall be very glad to see him
And so you are really going to live in Guestwick
Well, it looks like it, does it not? But, to tell you a secret -- only it must be a secret; you must not mention it at Guestwick Manor; even Bell does not know -- we have half made up our minds to unpack all our things and stay where we are
Unpack them all again
That will be very troublesome. Is Lily with you, Mrs Dale
Yes, she is in the parlour. Come and see her
How do you do, John
How do you do, Lily
So you're staying at the Manor House
Yes; I'm staying there. Your uncle and Bell came yesterday afternoon
Have you heard about Bell
Oh, yes; Mary told me. I'm so glad of it. I always liked Dr Crofts very much. I have not congratulated her, because I didn't know whether it was a secret. But Crofts was there last night, and if it is a secret he didn't seem to be very careful about keeping it
It is no secret
I don't know that I am fond of such secrets
Is it to be soon
Well, yes; we think so. Of course nothing is settled
It was such fun
James, who took, at any rate, a year or two to make his proposal, wanted to be married the next day afterwards
No, Lily; not quite that
Well, mamma, it was very nearly that. He thought it could all be done this week. It has made us so happy, John! I don't know anybody I should so much like for a brother. I'm very glad you like him -- very glad. I hope you'll be friends always
I'm sure we shall -- if he likes it. That is, if I ever happen to see him. I'll do anything for him I can if he ever comes up to London. Wouldn't it be a good thing, Mrs Dale, if he settled himself in London? "No, John; it would be a very bad thing. Why should he wish to rob me of my daughter
You think he would have a better career in London
It's going too far, mamma
to say that you think we shall not go. It was only last night that you suggested it. The truth is, John, that Hopkins came in and discoursed with the most wonderful eloquence. Nobody dared to oppose Hopkins. He made us almost cry; he was so pathetic
He has just been talking to me, too
as I came through the squire's garden
And what has he been saying to you
Oh, I don't know; not much
I am going to walk back to Guestwick
It was very good of you to come so far to see us
I was always fond of walking
The earl wanted me to ride, but I prefer being on foot when I know the country, as I do here
Have a glass of wine before you go
Oh, dear, no. I think I'll go back through the squire's fields, and out on the road at the white gate. The path is quite dry now
I dare say it is
Lily, I wonder whether you would come as far as that with me
Do, pray do
it is a beautiful day for walking
No, John
not today, I think. I am almost tired, and I had rather not go out
It would do you good
I don't want to be done good to, mamma. Besides, I should have to come back by myself
I'll come back with you
Oh, yes; and then I should have to go again with you. But, John, really I don't wish to walk today
Lily
Lily, I have come over here on purpose to speak to you. Indeed, I have come down from London only that I might see you
Have you, John
Yes, I have. You know well all that I have got to tell you. I loved you before he ever saw you; and now that he has gone, I love you better than I ever did. Dear Lily
No, John; no
Must it be always no
Always no to that. How can it be otherwise? You would not have me marry you while I love another
But he is gone. He has taken another wife
I cannot change myself because he is changed. If you are kind to me you will let that be enough
But you are so unkind to me
No, no; oh, I would wish to be so kind to you! John, here; take my hand. It is the hand of a friend who loves you, and will always love you. Dear John, I will do anything -- everything for you but that
There is only one thing
Nay; do not say so. Are you worse off than I am? I could not have that one thing, and I was nearer to my heart's longings than you have ever been. I cannot have that one thing; but I know that there are other things, and I will not allow myself to be broken-hearted
You are stronger than I am
Not stronger, but more certain. Make yourself as sure as I am, and you, too, will be strong. Is it not so, mamma
I wish it could be otherwise -- I wish it could be otherwise! If you can give him any hope
Mamma
Tell me that I may come again -- in a year
I cannot tell you so. You may not come again -- not in this way. Do you remember what, I told you before, in the garden; that I loved him better than all the world besides? It is still the same. I still love him better than all the world. How, then, can I give you any hope
But it will not be so for ever, Lily
For ever! Why should he not be mine as well as hers when that for ever comes? John, if you understand what it is to love, you will say nothing more of it. I have spoken to you more openly about this than I have ever done to anybody, even to mamma, because I have wished to make you understand my feelings. I should be disgraced in my own eyes if I admitted the love of another man, after -- after --. It is to me almost as though I had married him. I am not blaming him, remember. These things are different with a man
I should be disgraced in my own eyes if I admitted the love of another man
I knew that it would be so
Ah, yes; you know it, because your heart understands my heart. And you will not be angry with me, and say naughty, cruel words, as you did once before. We will think, of each other, John, and pray for each other; and will always love one another. When we do meet let us be glad to see each other. No other friend shall ever be dearer to me than you are. You are so true and honest! When you marry I will tell your wife what an infinite blessing God has given her
You shall never do that
Yes, I will. I understand what you mean; but yet I will
Good-bye, Mrs Dale
Good-bye, John. If it could have been otherwise with her, you should have had all my best wishes in the matter. I would have loved you dearly as my son; and I will love you now
And so will I love you
Poor fellow
They should not have let him come
But they don't understand. They think that I have lost a toy, and they mean to be good-natured, and to give me another
What an ass I have been -- always and ever
Has she offended you, John
Oh, Lady Julia
Has she offended you
She has refused me, and it is all over
It may be that she has refused you, and that yet it need not be all over. I am sorry that you have cut out the name. John. Do you mean to cut it out from your heart
Never. I would if I could, but I never shall
Keep to it as to a great treasure. It will be a joy to you in after years, and not a sorrow. To have loved truly, even though you shall have loved in vain, will be a consolation when you are as old as I am. It is something to have had a heart
I don't know. I wish that I had none
And, John -- I can understand her feeling now; and, indeed, I thought all through that you were asking her too soon; but the time may yet come when she will think better of your wishes
No, no; never. I begin to know her now
If you can be constant in your love you may win her yet. Remember how young she is; and how young you both are. Come again in two years' time, and then, when you have won her, you shall tell me that I have been a good old woman to you both
I shall never win her, Lady Julia
Nothing on earth shall make me believe it
That woman is as false as the father of falsehoods
He is there oftener than he should be
And I am sure of this, at least, that Dumbello does not like it
I will write to her
I am still her mother -- I will write to her. It may be that she does not know what people say of her
Oh, yes
we shall not leave till July
Oh, my lord and husband
Oh, my lover
Oh, my mother, the friend of my childhood
Send my love to Lord Dumbello
and tell him that I shall be so glad to see him if he will come to me while I am at breakfast
Yes, my lady
His lordship would be with her ladyship certainly
Gustavus
I have had a letter from my mother, which you had better read
I do not know what I have done to deserve such suspicions from her; but she lives in the country, and has probably been deceived by ill-natured people. At any rate you must read it, and tell me what I should do
Well, Gustavus
You must say what answer I shall make, or whether I shall make any answer
It's a very serious matter
Right! Oh, yes, you are right -- quite right to tell me; you should tell me everything. D --- them
I am above all things averse to cause you trouble
I have seen some little things of late
Has he ever said anything to you
Who -- Mr Palliser? Never a word
He has hinted at nothing of this kind
Never a word. Had he done so. I must have made you understand that he could not have been allowed again into my drawing-room
Your mother means well
Oh, yes, she means well. She has been foolish to believe the tittle-tattle that has reached her -- very foolish to oblige me to give you this annoyance
Oh, as for that, I'm not annoyed. By Jove, no. Come, Griselda, let us have it all out; other people have said this, and I have been unhappy. Now, you know it all
Have I made you unhappy
Well, no; not you.. Don't be hard upon me when I tell you the whole truth. Fools and brutes have whispered things that have vexed me. They may whisper till the devil fetches them, but they shan't annoy me again. Give me a kiss, my girl
Write a good-natured letter to your mother, and ask her to come up for a week in May. That'll be the best thing; and then she'll understand; By Jove, it's twelve o'clock. Goodbye
We will not go there, I think" said Mrs Grantly, speaking to her husband. "Oh dear, no; certainly not. If you want to go to town at all, I will take rooms for you. And as for his Royal Highness I have a great respect for his Royal Highness, but I do not in the least desire to meet him at Dumbello's table
I shall probably be there
forgotten himself
Lady Dumbello
I have been looking forward to meeting you here
Have you, Mr Palliser? Yes; I remember that you asked me whether I was coming
I did. Hm -- Lady Dumbello
Lady Dumbello, in this world in which we live, it is so hard to get a moment in which we can speak
Oh, I don't know
one doesn't often want to say very much, I think
Ah, no; not often, perhaps. But when one does want! How I do hate these crowded rooms
I wonder whether you ever desire anything beyond them
Oh, yes
but I confess that I am fond of parties
Griselda
Griselda
Mr Palliser
May I not call you so
Certainly not. Shall I ask you to see if my people are there
My carriage, I mean
Plantagenet
in this, as in all things, you have shown yourself to be everything that I could desire. I have told the marquis that Matching Priory, with the whole estate, should be given over to you at once. It is the most comfortable country-house I know. Glencora shall have The Horns as her wedding present
Oh, mamma! you would not believe it; but he hardly ever speaks to me
My dear, there are worse faults in a man than that
I am alone there all the day. I never get out. He never offers to get me a carriage. He asked me to walk with him once last week, when it was raining. I saw that he waited till the rain began. Only think, I have not been out three evenings this month -- except to Amelia's; and now he says he won't go there any more, because a fly is so expensive. You can't believe how uncomfortable the house is
I thought you chose it, my dear
I looked at it, but, of course, I didn't know what a house ought to be. Amelia said it wasn't nice, but he would have it. He hates Amelia. I'm sure of that, for he says everything he can to snub her and Mr Gazebee. Mr Gazebee is as good as he, at any rate. What do you think? He has given Richard warning to go. You never saw him, but he was a very good servant. He has given him warning, and he is not talking of getting another man. I won't live with him without somebody to wait upon me
My dearest girl, do not think of such a thing as leaving him
But I will think of it, mamma. You do not know what my life is in that house. He never speaks to me -- never. He comes home before dinner at half-past six, and when he has just shown himself he goes to his dressing-room. He is always silent at dinner-time, and after dinner he goes to sleep. He breakfasts always at nine, and goes away at half-past nine, though I know he does not get to his office till eleven. If I want anything, he says that it cannot be afforded. I never thought before that he was stingy, but I am sure now that he must he a miser at heart
It is better so than a spendthrift, Alexandrina
I don't know that it is better. He could not make me more unhappy than I am. Unhappy is no word for it. What can I do, shut up in such a house as that by myself from nine o'clock in the morning till six in the evening? Everybody knows what he is, so that nobody will come to see me. I tell you fairly, mamma, I will not stand it. If you cannot help me, I will look for help elsewhere
I have borne it
longer than any other woman in England would have done. While I thought that any of you would marry
Oh, don't talk of that, mamma
Rosina will go to Amelia's
Mr Gazebee is quite satisfied that it should be so, and he will take care that she shall have enough to cover her own expenses. I propose that you and I, dear, shall go to Baden-Baden
And about money, mamma
Mr Gazebee must manage it. In spite of all that your father says, I know that there must be money. The expense will be much less so than in our present way
And what will papa do himself
I cannot help it, my dear. No one knows what I have had to bear. Another year of it would kill me. His language has become worse and worse, and I fear every day that he is going to strike me with his crutch
If this be domestic felicity
If this be the happiness of married life
Of course he would allow her an income
But, my dear, they have been married only ten weeks
I don't see why anybody is to be made absolutely wretched because they are married
I don't want to persuade her to leave him, but if what she says is true, it must be very uncomfortable
Rather slow work; isn't it
As for myself
I would a deal sooner be at home with my paper and slippers. It seems to me these sort of gatherings don't suit married men
Certainly
I was only going to dress. It is nearly the half-hour
I won't keep you very long, and if dinner is a few minutes late it won't signify. Mamma and Margaretta are going to Baden-Baden
To Baden-Baden, are they
Yes; and they intend to remain there -- for a considerable time
Has anything happened at Courcy Castle
No; that is, yes; there may have been some words between papa and mamma; but I don't quite know. That, however, does not matter now. Mamma is going, and purposes to remain there for the rest of the year
And the house in town will be given up
I suppose so, but that will be as papa chooses. Have you any objection to my going with mamma
Going with them to Baden-Baden
For how long
Well: it would be no use unless it were for some time
For how long a time do you mean, Alexandrina? Speak out what you really have to say. For a month
Oh, more than that
For two months, or six, or as long as they may stay there
We could settle that afterwards, when I am there
You mean
that you wish to go away from me
In one sense it would be going away, certainly
But in the ordinary sense? is it not so? When you talk of going to Baden-Baden for an unlimited number of months, have you any idea of coming back again
Back to London, you mean
Back to me -- to my house -- to your duties as a wife! Why cannot you say at once what it is you want? You wish to be separated from me
I am not happy here -- in this house
And who chose the house? Did I want to come here? But it is not that. If you are not happy here, what could you have in any other house to make you happy
If you were left alone in this room for seven or eight hours at a time, without a soul to come to you, you would know what I mean. And even after that, it is not much better. You never speak to me when you are here
Is it my fault that nobody comes to you? The fact is, Alexandrina, that you will not reconcile yourself to the manner of life which is suitable to my income. You are wretched because you cannot have yourself driven round the Park. I cannot find you a carriage, and will not attempt to do so. You may go to Baden-Baden, if you please -- that is, if your mother is willing to take you
Of course I must pay my own expenses
You can go with your mother if you like it
I think it will be best
Perhaps it will. At any rate you shall suit yourself
And about money
You had better leave me to speak to Gazebee about that
Very well. Will you have some tea
Dear, dear
what trouble I had in getting these things together for them, and only the other day. I can't but think she's wrong to go away
I don't know
She has not been so lucky as you have in the man she has married. I always felt that she would find it difficult to manage him
But, my dear, she has not tried. She has given up at once. It isn't management that was wanting. The fact is that when Alexandrina began she didn't make up her mind to the kind of thing she was coming to. I did. I knew it wasn't to be all party-going and that sort of thing. But I must own that Crosbie isn't the same sort of man as Mortimer. I don't think I could have gone on with him. You might as well have those small books put up; he won't care about them
I am here with mamma, and may as well say good-bye now. We start on Tuesday. If you wish to write, you can send your letters to the housekeeper here. I hope you will make yourself comfortable, and that you will be well. Yours affectionately, A. C
I haven't seen you this age
No. My wife is going abroad with her mother, and while she is away I shall come back here again
I suppose, mamma, we may consider it as a settled thing that everything must be again unpacked, and that the lodging scheme will be given up
I don't know that, my dear
Oh, but I do -- after what you said just now. What geese everybody will think us
I shouldn't care a bit for that, if we didn't think ourselves geese, or if your uncle did not think us so
I believe he would think we were swans. If I had ever thought he would be so much in earnest about it, or that he would ever have cared about our being here, I would never have voted for going. But he is so strange. He is affectionate when he ought to be angry, and ill-natured when he ought to be gentle and kind
He has, at any rate, given us reason to feel sure of his affection
For us girls, I never doubted it. But, mamma, I don't think I could face Mrs Boyce. Mrs Hearn and Mrs Crump would be very bad, and Hopkins would come down upon us terribly when he found that we had given way. But Mrs Boyce would be worse than any of them. Can't you fancy the tone of her congratulations
I think I should survive Mrs Boyce
Ah, yes; because we should have to go and tell her. I know your cowardice of old, mamma; don't I? And Bell wouldn't care a bit, because of her lover. Mrs Boyce will be nothing to her. It is I that must bear it all. Well, I don't mind; I'll vote for staying if you will promise to be happy here. Oh, mamma, I'll vote for anything if you will be happy
And will you be happy
Yes, as happy as the day is long. Only I know we shall never see Bell. People never do see each other when they live just at that distance. It's too near for long visits, and too far for short visits. I'll tell you what; we might make arrangements each to walk half-way, and meet at the corner of Lord de Guest's wood. I wonder whether they'd let us put up a seat there. I think we might have a little house and carry sandwiches and a bottle of beer. Couldn't we see something of each other in that way
I suppose the three of us had better go up in sackcloth, and throw ashes on our foreheads as we meet Hopkins in the garden
and then I know he'll heap coals of fire on our heads by sending us an early dish of peas. And Dingles would bring us in a pheasant, only that pheasants don't grow in May
If the sackcloth doesn't take an unpleasanter shape than that, I shan't mind it
That's because you've got no delicate feelings. And then Uncle Christopher's gratitude
Ah! I shall feel that
But, mamma, we'll wait till Bell comes home. She shall decide. She is going away, and therefore she'll be free from prejudice. If uncle offers to paint the house -- and I know he will-then I shall be humbled to the dust
I wonder how Bell gets on with Lady Julia
Very well, I'm sure
Lady Julia won't bite her, I know, and I suppose her dismay at the tall footmen has passed off by this time
I don't know that they have any tall footmen
Short footmen then -- you know what I mean; all the noble belongings. They must startle one at first, I'm sure, let one determine ever so much not to be startled. It's a very mean thing, no doubt, to be afraid of a lord merely because he is a lord; yet I'm sure I should be afraid at first, even of Lord de Guest, if I were staying in the house
It's well you didn't go then
Yes, I think it is. Bell is of a firmer mind, and I dare say she'll get over it after the first day. But what on earth does she do there? I wonder whether they mend their stockings in such a house as that
Not in public, I should think
In very grand houses they throw them away at once, I suppose. I've often thought about it. Do you believe the Prime Minister ever has his shoes sent to a cobbler? "Perhaps a regular shoemaker will condescend to mend a Prime Minister's shoes
You do think they are mended then? But who orders it? Does he see himself when there's a little hole coming, as I do? Does an archbishop allow himself so many pairs of gloves in a year
Not very strictly, I should think
Then I suppose it comes to this, that he has a new pair whenever he wants them. But what constitutes the want? Does he ever say to himself that they'll do for another Sunday? I remember the bishop coming here once, and he had a hole at the end of his thumb. I was going to be confirmed, and I remember thinking that he ought to have been smarter
Why didn't you offer to mend it
I shouldn't have dared for all the world
I suppose they have pockets like other children
Lily, dear, I want to say something to you about John Eames
Mamma, I'd sooner talk about the Royal Family just at present
But, dear, you must forgive me if I persist. I have thought much about it, and I'm sure you will not oppose me when I am doing what I think to be my duty
No, mamma; I won't oppose you, certainly
Since Mr Crosbie's conduct was made known to you, I have mentioned his name in your hearing very seldom
No, mamma, you have not. And I have loved you so dearly for your goodness to me. Do not think that I have not understood and known how generous you have been. No other mother ever was so good as you have been. I have known it all, and thought of it every day of my life, and thanked you in my heart for your trusting silence. Of course, I understand your feelings. You think him bad and you hate him for what he has done
I would not willingly hate any one, Lily
Ah, but you do hate him. If I were you, I should hate him; but I am not you, and I love him. I pray for his happiness every night and morning, and for hers. I have forgiven him altogether, and I think that he was right. When I am old enough to do so without being wrong, I will go to him and tell him so. I should like to hear of all his doings and all his success, if it were only possible. How, then, can you and I talk about him? It is impossible. You have been silent and I have been silent -- let us remain silent
It is not about Mr Crosbie that I wish to speak. But I think you ought to understand that conduct such as his will be rebuked by all the world. You may forgive him, but you should acknowledge
Mamma, I don't want to acknowledge anything -- not about him. There are things as to which a person cannot argue
Of course, mamma
I don't want to oppose you in anything, but I think we had better be silent about this
Of course I am thinking only of your future happiness
I know you are; but pray believe me that you need not be alarmed. I do not mean to be unhappy. Indeed, I think I may say I am not unhappy; of course I have been unhappy -- very unhappy. I did think that my heart would break. But that has passed away, and I believe I can be as happy as my neighbours. We're all of us sure to have some troubles, as you used to tell us when we were children
It was about John Eames, and not about Mr Crosbie, that I wished to speak to you
Oh, mamma
My dear, you must not hinder me in doing what I think to be a duty. I heard what he said to you and what you replied, and of course I cannot but have my mind full of the subject. Why should you set yourself against him in so fixed a manner
Because I love another man
But, Lily, that love, from its very nature, must cease; or, rather, such love is not the same as that you felt when you thought that you were to be his wife
Yes, it is. If she died, and he came to me in five years time, I would still take him. I should think myself constrained to take him
But she is not dead, nor likely to die
That makes no difference. You don't understand me, mamma
I think I do, and I want you to understand me also. I know how difficult is your position; I know what your feelings are; but I know this also, that if you could reason with yourself, and bring yourself in time to receive John Eames as a dear friend
I did receive him as a dear friend. Why not? He is a dear friend. I love him heartily -- as you do
You know what I mean
Yes, I do; and I tell you it is impossible
If you would make the attempt, all this misery would soon be forgotten. If once you could bring yourself to regard him as a friend, who might become your husband, all this would be changed -- and I should see you happy
You are strangely anxious to be rid of me, mamma
Yes, Lily -- to be rid of you in that way. If I could see you put your hand in his as his promised wife, I think that I should be the happiest woman in the world
Mamma, I cannot make you happy in that way. If you really understood my feelings, my doing as you propose would make you very unhappy. I should commit a great sin -- the sin against which women should be more guarded than against any other. In my heart I am married to that other man. I gave myself to him, and loved him, and rejoiced in his love. When he kissed me I kissed him again, and I longed for his kisses. I seemed to live only that he might caress me. All that time I never felt myself to be wrong -- because he was all in all to me. I was his own. That has been changed -- to my great misfortune; but it cannot be undone or forgotten. I cannot be the girl I was before he came here. There are things that will not have themselves buried and put out of sight, as though they had never been. I am as you are, mamma-widowed. But you have your daughter, and I have my mother. If you will be contented, so will I
It shall be as you will
Yes, as I will. I shall have my own way; shall I not? That is all I want; to be a tyrant over you, and make you do my bidding in everything, as a well-behaved mother should do. But I won't be stern in my orderings. If you will only be obedient, I will be so gracious to you! There's Hopkins again. I wonder whether he has come to knock us down and trample upon us with another speech
Well, Hopkins
here we are
Yes, miss, I see you. I want to speak to your mamma, miss
Come round
It's too cold to open the window; come round, and I'll open the door
Too cold
They'll find it a deal colder in lodgings at Guestwick
Well, Hopkins, what is it? Mamma has got a headache
Got a headache, has she? I won't make her headache no worse. It's my opinion that there's nothing for a headache so good as fresh air. Only some people can't abear to be blowed upon, not for a minute. If you don't let down the lights in a greenhouse more or less every day, you'll never get any plants -- never -- and it's just the same with the grapes. Is I to go back and say as how I couldn't see her
You can come in if you like; only be quiet, you know
Ain't I ollays quiet, miss? Did anybody ever hear me rampage? If you please, ma'am, the squire's come home.' "What, home from Guestwick? Has he brought Miss Bell? 

"He ain't brought none but hisself, cause he come on horseback; and it's my belief he's going back almost immediate. But he wants you to come to him, Mrs Dale
Oh, yes, I'll come at once
He bade me say with his kind love. I don't know whether that makes any difference
At any rate, I'll come, Hopkins
And I ain't to say nothing about the headache
No, no, no
Mamma will be there at once. Go and tell my uncle, there's a good man
I don't believe she's got no headache at all
What lies gentlefolks do tell! If I said I'd a headache when I ought to be out among the things, what would they say to me? But a poor man mustn't never lie, nor yet drink, nor yet do nothing
What can have brought your uncle home? "said Mrs Dale. "Just to look after the cattle, and to see that the pigs are not all dead. My wonder is that he should ever have gone away
I must go up to him at once
Oh, yes, of course
And what shall I say about the house
It's not about that -- at least I think not. I don't think he'll speak about that again till you speak to him
But if he does
You must put your trust in Providence. Declare you've got a bad headache, as I told Hopkins just now; only you would throw me over by not understanding. I'll walk with you down to the bridge
And so it should be
What can a heart be worth if it can be transferred hither and thither as circumstances and convenience and comfort may require? When he held me here in his arms
oh, my love
oh, my love, my love, my love
When he held me here in his arms, I told myself that it was right, because he was my husband. He has changed, but I have not. It might be that I should have ceased to love him, and then I should have told him so. I should have done as he did
It was very quick
very, very. But then men are not the same as women
Tell me to forget him
It is the one thing which will never be forgotten
Stand and deliver
That is, if you've got anything worth delivering. Is anything settled
Come up to the house
and I'll tell you all
Did he come over on purpose to see you, mamma
Yes, my dear, I believe so. He wished to see you, too; but I asked his permission to postpone that till after I had talked to you
To see me, mamma? About what
To kiss you, and bid you love him; solely for that. He has not a word to say to you that will vex you
Then I will kiss him, and love him, too
Yes, you will when I have told you all. I have promised him solemnly to give up all idea of going to Guestwick. So that is over
Oh, oh! And we may begin to unpack at once? What an episode in one's life
We may certainly unpack, for I have pledged myself to him; and he is to go into Guestwick himself and arrange about the lodgings
Does Hopkins know it
I should think not yet
Nor Mrs Boyce! Mamma, I don't believe I shall be able to survive this next week. We shall look such fools! I'll tell you what we'll do -- it will be the only comfort I can have -- we'll go to work and get everything back into its place before Bell comes home, so as to surprise her
What! in two days
Why not? I'll make Hopkins come and help, and then he'll not be so bad. I'll begin at once and go to the blankets and beds, because I can undo them myself
But I haven't half told you all; and, indeed, I don't know how to make you understand what passed between us. He is very unhappy about Bernard; Bernard has determined to go abroad, and may be away for years
One can hardly blame a man for following up his profession
There was no blaming. He only said that it was very sad for him that, in his old age, he should be left alone. This was before there was any talk about our remaining. Indeed he seemed determined not to ask that again as a favour. I could see that in his eye, and I understood it from his tone. He went on to speak of you and Bell, saying how well he loved you both; but that, unfortunately, his hopes regarding you had not been fulfilled
Ah, but he shouldn't have had hopes of that sort
Listen, my dear, and I think that you will not feel angry with him. He said that he felt his house had never been pleasant to you. Then there followed words which I could not repeat, even if I could remember them. He said much about myself, regretting that the feeling between us had not been more kindly. But my heart, he said, has ever been kinder than my words. Then I got up from where I was seated, and going over to him, I told him that we would remain here
And what did he say
I don't know what he said. I know that I was crying, and that he kissed me. It was the first time in his life. I know that he was pleased -- beyond measure pleased. After a while he became animated, and talked of doing ever so many things. He promised that very painting of which you spoke
Ah, yes, I knew it; and Hopkins will be here with the peas before dinner-time to-morrow, and Dingles with his shoulders smothered with rabbits. And then Mrs Boyce! Mamma, he didn't think of Mrs Boyce; or, in very charity of heart, he would still have maintained his sadness
Then he did not think of her; for when I left him he was not at all sad. But I haven't told you half yet
Dear me, mamma; was there more than that
And I've told it all wrong; for what I've got to tell now was said before a word was spoken about the house. He brought it in just after what he said about Bernard. He said that Bernard would, of course, be his heir
Of course he will
And that he should think it wrong to encumber the property with any charges for you girls
Mamma, did any one ever
Stop, Lily, stop; and make your heart kinder towards him if you can
It is kind; only I hate to be told that I'm not to have a lot of money, as though I had ever shown a desire for it. I have never envied Bernard his man-servant, or his maid-servant, or his ox, or his ass, or anything that is his. To tell the truth I didn't even wish it to be Bell's, because I knew well that there was somebody she would like a great deal better than ever she could like Bernard
I shall never get to the end of my story
Yes, you will, mamma, if you persevere
The long and the short of it is this, that he has given Bell three thousand pounds, and has given you three thousand also
But why me, mamma
But why me, mamma
Because, as he explained to me, he thinks it right to do the same by each of you. The money is yours at this moment -- to buy hair-pins with, if you please. I had no idea that he could command so large a sum
Three thousand pounds! The last money he gave me was half-a-crown, and I thought that he was so stingy! I particularly wanted ten shillings. I should have liked it so much better now if he had given me a nice new five-pound note
You'd better tell him so
No; because then he'd give me that too. But with five pounds I should have the feeling that I might do what I liked with it -- buy a dressing-case, and a thing for a squirrel to run round in. But nobody ever gives girls money like that, so that they can enjoy it
Oh, Lily; you ungrateful child
No, I deny it. I'm not ungrateful. I'm very grateful, because his heart was softened -- and because he cried and kissed you. I'll be ever so good to him! But how I'm to thank him for giving me three thousand pounds, I cannot think. It's a sort of thing altogether beyond my line of life. It sounds like something that's to come to me in another world, but which I don't want quite yet. I am grateful, but with a misty, hazy sort of gratitude. Can you tell me how soon I shall have a new pair of Balmoral boots because of this money? If that were brought home to me I think it would enliven my gratitude
I'm almost sorry that they are going to stay
I know that I shall disappoint them
I am so glad
It is long since I wished it
And I do not think your mother wishes it now
I am sure she does not. It was all a misunderstanding from the first. When some of us could not do all that you wished, we thought it better
We will not say any more about it
The thing is over, and I am very glad that it should be so pleasantly settled. I was talking to Dr Crofts yesterday
Yes; and he is to come and stay with me the day before he is married. We have arranged it all. And we'll have the breakfast up at the Great House. Only you must fix the day. I should say some time in March. And, my dear, you'll want to make yourself fine; here's a little money for you. You are to spend that before your marriage, you know
I don't know what I shall say to your brother
Will you let me break it to him? After that he will say a few words to you of course, but you need not be afraid of him
And Mr Dale
Everybody has heard about it. Everybody will know what a fool I have made myself
Well, my boy
so the young lady has been perverse
Yes, my lord. That is, I don't know about being perverse. It is all over
That's as may be, Johnny. As far as I know, not half of them accept their lovers the first time of asking
I shall not ask her again
Oh, yes, you will. You don't mean to say you are angry with her for refusing you
Not in the least. I have no right to be angry. I am only angry with myself for being such a fool, Lord de Guest. I wish I had been dead before I came down here on this errand. Now I think of it, I know there are so many things which ought to have made me sure how it would be
I don't see that at all. You come down again -- let me see -- it's May now. Say you come when the shooting begins in September. If we can't get you leave of absence in any other way, we'll make old Buffle come too. Only, by George, I believe he'd shoot us all. But never mind; we'll manage that. You keep up your spirits till September, and then we'll fight the battle in another way. The squire shall get up a little party for the bride, and my lady Lily must go then. You shall meet her so; and then we'll shoot over the squire's land. We'll bring you together so; you see if we don't. Lord bless me! Refused once! My belief is, that in these days a girl thinks nothing of a man till she has refused him half-a-dozen times
I don't think Lily is at all like that
Look here, Johnny. I have not a word to say against Miss Lily. I like her very much, and think her one of the nicest girls I know. When she's your wife, I'll love her dearly, if she'll let me. But she's made of the same stuff as other girls, and will act in the same way. Things have gone a little astray among you, and they won't right themselves all in a minute. She knows now what your feelings are, and she'll go on thinking of it, till at last you'll be in her thoughts more than that other fellow. Don't tell me about her becoming an old maid, because at her time of life she has been so unfortunate as to come across a false-hearted man like that. It may take a little time; but if you'll carry on and not be down-hearted, you'll find it will all come right in the end. Everybody doesn't get all that they want in a minute. How I shall quiz you about all this when you have been two or three years married
I don't think I shall ever be able to ask her again; and I feel sure, if I do, that her answer will be the same. She told me in so many words; but never mind, I cannot repeat her words
I don't want you to repeat them; nor yet to heed them beyond their worth. Lily Dale is a very pretty girl; clever, too, I believe, and good, I'm sure; but her words are not more sacred than those of other men or women. What she has said to you now, she means, no doubt; but the minds of men and women are prone to change, especially when such changes are conducive to their own happiness
At any rate I'll never forget your kindness, Lord de Guest
And there is one other thing I want to say to you, Johnny. A man should never allow himself to be cast down by anything -- not outwardly, to the eyes of other men
But how is he to help it? "His pluck should prevent him. You were not afraid of a roaring bull, nor yet of that man when you thrashed him at the railway station. You've pluck enough of that kind. You must now show that you've that other kind of pluck. You know the story of the boy who would not cry though the wolf was gnawing him underneath his frock. Most of us have some wolf to gnaw us somewhere; but we are generally gnawed beneath our clothes, so that the world doesn't see; and it behoves us so to bear it that the world shall not suspect. The man who goes about declaring himself to be miserable will be not only miserable, but contemptible as well
But the wolf hasn't gnawed me beneath my clothes; everybody knows it
Then let those who do know it learn that you are able to bear such wounds without outward complaint. I tell you fairly that I cannot sympathise with a lackadaisical lover
I know that I have made myself ridiculous to everybody. I wish I had never come here. I wish you had never seen me
Don't say that, my dear boy; but take my advice for what it is worth. And remember what it is that I say; with your grief I do sympathise, but not with any outward expression of it -- not with melancholy looks, and a sad voice, and an unhappy gait. A man should always be able to drink his wine and seem to enjoy it. If he can't, he is so much less of a man than he would be otherwise -- not so much more, as some people seem to think. Now get yourself dressed, my dear fellow, and come down to dinner as though nothing had happened to you
Lackadaisical! I'm not lackadaisical
I didn't say anything to him. I didn't tell him. Why did he come to me
I've a good mind to take him at his word, and drink wine till I'm drunk
But I do care. What stuff it is a man writing poetry and putting into it such lies as that! Everybody knows that he did care -- that is, if he wasn't a heartless beast
You haven't seen Crofts to-day, John, have you
No; I haven't been anywhere his way
His way! His ways are every way, I take it. I wanted him to come and dine, but he seemed to think it improper to eat two dinners in the same house two days running. Isn't that his theory, Miss Dale
I'm sure I don't know, Lord de Guest. At any rate, it isn't mine
By Jove, he'll have another try for it
And you mustn't be angry with me for speaking harshly to you
I wasn't a bit angry
Yes, you were; and I rather meant that you should be. But you mustn't go away in dudgeon
Poor Caudle
he's hooked, and he'll never get himself off the hook again
I loved him -- him, Crosbie -- better than all the world besides. It is still the same. I still love him better than all the world
Mr Heames, Mr Heames! ho dear, ho dear
Yes, sure enough, she's at home. She don't dare stir out much, 'cause of them Lupexes. Ain't this a pretty game? No dinner and no nothink! Them boxes is Miss Spruce's. She's agoing now, this minute. You'll find 'em all upstairs in the drawen-room
Don't, mother
what's the good of going on in that way? If she chooses to go, let her go
But she's been with me now so many years
and I've always done everything for her! Haven't I, now, Sally Spruce
I'm only an old woman
and here's Mr Eames come back again
How d'ye do, Mrs Roper? how d'ye do, Amelia?-- how d'ye do, Miss Spruce
Oh, laws
you have given me such a start
Dear me, Mr Eames; only think of your coming back in that way
Well, what way should I come back? You didn't hear me knock at the door, that's all. So Miss Spruce is really going to leave you
Isn't it dreadful, Mr Eames? Nineteen years we've been together -- taking both houses together, Miss Spruce, we have, indeed
It's nineteen years if it's a day. No one ought to know dates if I don't, and there isn't one in the world understands her ways unless it's me. Haven't I been up to your bedroom every night, and with my own hand given you
I don't think you'll be so comfortable anywhere else, Miss Spruce
Comfortable! of course she won't
But if I was mother I wouldn't have any more words about it
It isn't the money I'm thinking of, but the feeling of it
The house will be so lonely like. I shan't know myself; that I shan't. And now that things are all settled so pleasantly, and that the Lupexes must go on Tuesday -- I'll tell you what, Sally; I'll pay for the cab myself, and I'll start off to Dulwich by the omnibus tomorrow, and settle it all out of my own pocket. I will indeed. Come; there's the cab. Let me go down, and send him away
I'll do that
It's only sixpence, off the stand
So much the better for poor Caudle
As he has gone into the trade it's well that he should have somebody that will pay him
He's written to you, I know
Yes
He has told me how it's all going to be
Well
Well
Is that all you've got to say
I'll congratulate you, if you'll let me
Psha -- congratulations! I hate such humbug. If you've no feelings about it, I'm sure that I've none. Indeed I don't know what's the good of feelings. They never did me any good. Are you engaged to marry L. D
No, I am not
And you've nothing else to say to me
Nothing -- except my hopes for your happiness. What else can I say? You are engaged to marry my friend Cradell, and I think it will be a happy match
Good-bye, Amelia
And this is to be the last of you in this house
Well, I don't know about that. I'll come and call upon you, if you'll let me, when you're married
Yes
that there may be rows in the house, and noise, and jealousy -- as there have been with that wicked woman upstairs. Not if I know it, you won't! John Eames, I wish I'd never seen you. I wish we might have both fallen dead when we first met. I didn't think ever to have cared for a man as I have cared for you. It's all trash and nonsense and foolery; I know that. It's all very well for young ladies as can sit in drawing-rooms all their lives, but when a woman has her way to make in the world it's all foolery. And such a hard way too to make as mine is
But it won't be hard now
Won't it? But I think it will. I wish you would try it. Not that I'm going to complain. I never minded work, and as for company, I can put up with anybody. The world's not to be all dancing and fiddling for the likes of me. I know that well enough. But
What's the 'but' about, Amelia
It's like you to ask me; isn't it
Never mind. I'm not going to have any words with you. If you've been a knave I've been a fool, and that's worse
But I don't think I have been a knave
I've been both
and both for nothing. After that you may go. I've told you what I am, and I'll leave you to name yourself. I didn't think it was in me to have been such a fool. It's that that frets me. Never mind, sir; it's all over now, and I wish you good-bye
It'll be the last
Good-bye, John Eames
Good-bye, Amelia. Try to make him a good wife and then you'll be happy
I am so glad you came
It was just that word you said that made Miss Spruce stay. Her money is so ready, you know! And so you've had it all out with her about Cradell. She'll make him a good wife, she will indeed -- much better than you've been giving her credit for
I don't doubt she'll be a very good wife
You see, Mr Eames, it's all over now, and we understand each other; don't we? It made me very unhappy when she was setting her cap at you; it did indeed. She is my own daughter, and I couldn't go against her -- could I? But I knew it wasn't in any way suiting. Laws, I know the difference. She's good enough for him any day of the week, Mr Eames
That she is -- Saturdays or Sundays
So she is; and if he does his duty by her she won't go astray in hers by him. And as for you, Mr Eames, I am sure I've always felt it an honour and a pleasure to have you in the house; and if ever you could use a good word in sending to me any of your young men, I'd do by them as a mother should; I would indeed. I know I've been to blame about those Lupexes, but haven't I suffered for it, Mr Eames? And it was difficult to know at first; wasn't it? And as to you and Amelia, if you would send any of your young men to try, there couldn't be anything more of that kind, could there? I know it hasn't all been just as it should have been -- that is as regards you; but I should like to hear you say that you've found me honest before you went. I have tried to be honest, I have indeed
He did not think
that any young men would consult him as to their lodgings; but if he could be of any service to her, he would
Delighted to see you back, Eames: am, upon my word; though I and FitzHoward have got on capitally in your absence; haven't we, FitzHoward
Oh, yes
I haven't minded it for a time, just while Eames has been away
You're much too idle to keep at it, I know; but your bread will be buttered for you elsewhere, so it doesn't signify. My compliments to the duchess when you see her
And how's my dear old friend
And how's my dear old friend
And, by-the-by, Eames, where are you living at present
Well, I'm not settled. I'm at the Great Western Railway Hotel at this moment
Capital house, very; only it's expensive if you stay there the whole season
By-the-by, you might as well come and dine with us tomorrow. Lady Buffle is most anxious to know you. There'll be one or two with us. I did ask my friend Dumbello, but there's some nonsense going on in the House, and he thinks that he can't get away
But I can't eat it
You'll find it's so at all other places
Other places
If they all is to do as they like
then nobody won't care for nobody
Hopkins
why didn't you ask for what you wanted, before you took it
Hopkins, that won't do
Stop where you are
What won't do
Put it down, Hopkins
Squire, I've been here about this place going on nigh seventy years
If you've been going on a hundred and seventy it wouldn't do that there should be more than one master. I'm the master here, and I intend to be so to the end. Take that manure back into the yard
Back into the yard
Yes; back into the yard
What -- afore all their faces
Yes; you've disobeyed me before all their faces
Master
there it is -- there's the key; of course I don't want no warning, and doesn't care about my week's wages. I'll be out of the cottage afore night, and as for the work'us, I suppose they'll let me in at once, if your honour'll give 'em a line
Don't be a fool
I know I've been a fool
about that 'ere doong; my feelings has been too much for me. When a man's feelings has been too much for him, he'd better just take hisself off, and lie in the work'us till he dies
I s'pose I'd better just see to the lights and the like of that, till you've suited yourself, Mr Dale. It 'ud be a pity all them grapes should go off, and they, as you may say, all one as fit for the table. It's a long way the best crop I ever see on 'em. I've been that careful with 'em that I haven't had a natural night's rest, not since February. There ain't nobody about this place as understands grapes, nor yet anywhere nigh that could be got at. My lord's head man is wery ignorant; but even if he knew ever so, of course he couldn't come here. I suppose I'd better keep the key till you're suited, Mr Dale
Miss
when I said them few words to you and your mamma, I knew that you would listen to reason
Yes
we've made up our minds to stay. Uncle wishes it
Wishes it! Laws, miss; it ain't only wishes. And we all wishes it. Why, now, look at the reason of the thing. Here's this here house
But, Hopkins, it's decided. We're going to stay. What I want to know is this; can you come at once and help me to unpack? "What! this very evening, as is
Yes, now; we want to have the things about again before they come back from Guestwick
about the doong
It's been a killing me, miss, so it has; to see the way they've been a cutting that 'sparagus. It ain't cutting at all. It's just hocking it up -- what is fit, and what isn't, all together. And they've been a-putting the plants in where I didn't mean 'em, though they know'd I didn't mean 'em. I've stood by, miss, and said never a word. I'd a died sooner. But, Miss Lily, what my sufferings have been, 'cause of my feelings getting the better of me about that -- you know, miss -- nobody will ever tell -- nobody -- nobody -- nobody
Uncle
I want to ask you a great favour
A great favour. Well, I don't think I shall refuse you anything at present. It isn't to ask another earl to the house -- is it
Another earl
Yes; haven't you heard? Miss Bell has been here this morning, insisting that I should have over Lord de Guest and his sister for the marriage. It seems that there was some scheming between Bell and Lady Julia
Of course you'll ask them
Of course I must. I've no way out of it. It'll be all very well for Bell, who'll be off to Wales with her lover; but what am I to do with the earl and Lady Julia, when they're gone? Will you come and help me
Indeed
I thought we were all asked up for the day. And now for my favour. Uncle, you must forgive poor Hopkins
Forgive a fiddlestick
No, but you must. You can't think how unhappy he is
How can I forgive a man who won't forgive me. He goes prowling about the place doing nothing; and he sends me back his wages, and he looks as though he were going to murder some one; and all because he wouldn't do as he was told. How am I to forgive such a man as that
But, uncle, why not
It would be his forgiving me. He knows very well that he may come back whenever he pleases; and, indeed, for the matter of that he has never gone away
But he is so very unhappy
What can I do to make him happier
Just go down to his cottage and tell him that you forgive him
Then he'll argue with me
No; I don't think he will. He is too much down in the world for arguing now
Ah! you don't know him as I do. All the misfortunes in the world wouldn't stop that man's conceit. Of course I'll go if you ask me, but it seems to me that I'm made to knock under to everybody. I hear a great deal about other people's feelings, but I don't know that mine are very much thought of
Ah
I think I'll go and look at lodgings at Guestwick myself, and pack up some of my beds
Dear, dear
well, to be sure, we should a been lone without 'ee, and mayhap we might a got worse in your place; but why did 'ee go and fasten up all your things in them big boxes, just to unfasten 'em all again
We changed our minds, Mrs Crump
Yees, I know ye changed your mindses. Well, it's all right for loiks o' ye, no doubt; but if we changes our mindses, we hears of it
But never mind, Mrs Crump. Do you send us our letters up early, and then we won't quarrel
Oh, letters! Drat them for letters. I wish there weren't no sich things. There was a man here yesterday with his imperence. I don't know where he come from -- down from Lun'on, I b'leeve: and this was wrong, and that was wrong, and everything was wrong; and then he said he'd have me discharged the sarvice
Dear me, Mrs Crump; that wouldn't do at all
Discharged the sarvice! Tuppence farden a day. So I told 'un to discharge hisself, and take all the old bundles and things away upon his shoulders. Letters indeed! What business have they with post-missusses, if they cannot pay 'em better nor tuppence farden a day
discharged the sarvice
That's a bitter old lady
Yes, sir; they all says the same about she. There ain't none of 'em get much change out of Mrs Crump
If she makes herself very disagreeable, I shall insist upon talking of your marriage
I've not the slightest objection
only I don't know what there can be to say about it. Marrying the doctor is such a very commonplace sort of thing
Not a bit more commonplace than marrying the parson
Oh, yes, it is. Parsons' marriages are often very grand affairs. They come in among county people. That's their luck in life. Doctors never do; nor lawyers. I don't think lawyers ever get married in the country. They're supposed to do it up in London. But a country doctor's wedding is not a thing to be talked about much
It is so much nicer, you know
that things should be pleasant among relatives
Things always have been tolerably pleasant with us
Oh, yes; I'm sure of that. I've always said it was quite a pleasure to see you and your uncle together. And when we heard about your all having to leave
But we didn't have to leave, Mrs Boyce. We were going to leave because we thought mamma would be more comfortable in Guestwick; and now we're not going to leave, because we've all 'changed our mindses,' as Mrs Crump calls it
And is it true the house is going to be painted
I believe it is true
Inside and out
It must be done some day
Yes, to be sure; but I must say it is generous of the squire. There's such a deal of wood-work about your house. I know I wish the Ecclesiastical Commissioners would paint ours; but nobody ever does anything for the clergy. I'm sure I'm delighted you're going to stay. As I said to Mr Boyce, what should we ever have done without you? I believe the squire had made up his mind that he would not let the place
I don't think he ever has let it
Upon my word, I don't know. Bell can tell you better about that than I, as Dr Crofts settled it. I suppose Dr Crofts tells her everything
I wish it had been for thee, my darling
It is much better as it is, Hopkins
Not with him, though
not with him. I wouldn't a hung a bough for him. But with t'other one
Wives when they have lost their husbands still eat and laugh
and he is not dead like that
You're a dear good man, and I know you'll be good to her
I'll try, at any rate
And I shall expect you to be good to me too. Remember you have married the whole family; and, sir, you mustn't believe a word of what that bad man says in his novels about mothers-in-law. He has done a great deal of harm, and shut half the ladies in England out of their daughters' houses
He shan't shut Mrs Dale out of mine
Remember he doesn't. Now, good-bye
not if I were to starve
</text>
