<text>
Mr. Landlord
have you any foreign guests coming on this first day of the season
Madame Mayoress
I have two. They have written -- the one by the hand of his servant, the other by his own hand apparently -- to order their rooms; and they are from England, both, as I think by their names. If you ask me to pronounce those names, my tongue hesitates; if you ask me to spell them, here they are, letter by letter, first and second in their order as they come. First, a high-born stranger (by title Mister) who introduces himself in eight letters, A, r, m, a, d, a, l, e -- and comes ill in his own carriage. Second, a high-born stranger (by title Mister also), who introduces himself in four letters -- N, e, a, l -- and comes ill in the diligence. His excellency of the eight letters writes to me (by his servant) in French; his excellency of the four letters writes to me in German. The rooms of both are ready. I know no more
Perhaps
Mr. Doctor has heard from one or both of these illustrious strangers
From one only, Madam Mayoress; but not, strictly speaking, from the person himself. I have received a medical report of his excellency of the eight letters, and his case seems a bad one. God help him
The diligence
Play, my friends
Public or private, here are the first sick people of the season. Let them find us cheerful
A word more, ma'am
about the two strangers from England. Are their letters explicit? Have they got any ladies with them
The one by the diligence -- no
But the one by the private carriage -- yes. He comes with a child; he comes with a nurse; and
he comes with a Wife
Der Freischutz
Where is the proprietor of this hotel
Fetch the doctor
I want to see him immediately
I am here already, sir
and my services are entirely at your disposal
Thank you
I shall be glad to consult you to-morrow morning, at ten o'clock, about my own case. I only want to trouble you now with a message which I have undertaken to deliver. We overtook a traveling carriage on the road here with a gentleman in it -- an Englishman, I believe -- who appeared to be seriously ill. A lady who was with him begged me to see you immediately on my arrival, and to secure your professional assistance in removing the patient from the carriage. Their courier has met with an accident, and has been left behind on the road, and they are obliged to travel very slowly. If you are here in an hour, you will be here in time to receive them. That is the message. Who is this gentleman who appears to be anxious to speak to me? The mayor? If you wish to see my passport, sir, my servant will show it to you. No? You wish to welcome me to the place, and to offer your services? I am infinitely flattered. If you have any authority to shorten the performances of your town band, you would be doing me a kindness to exert it. My nerves are irritable, and I dislike music. Where is the landlord? No; I want to see my rooms. I don't want your arm; I can get upstairs with the help of my stick. Mr. Mayor and Mr. Doctor, we need not detain one another any longer. I wish you good-night
Is the doctor here
I am here, madam
Pray take them out of the way
pray take them to their room
The child
The child is safe upstairs
My desk
It is in my hands. Look! I won't trust it to anybody; I am taking care of it for you myself
Wait till I have seen him to-morrow. Ask me nothing to-night
I appointed ten o'clock for your visit
In my country, a medical man is a punctual man
In my country
a medical man is exactly like other men -- he is at the mercy of accidents. Pray grant me your pardon, sir, for being so long after my time; I have been detained by a very distressing case -- the case of Mr. Armadale, whose traveling-carriage you passed on the road yesterday
Might I venture to remind you
that the case now under consideration is MY case, and not Mr. Armadale's
Certainly
You appear to be suffering from lameness; let me look at your foot
I cannot conceal from myself
that I am intruding on you. But I am compelled to beg your indulgence if I return to the subject of Mr. Armadale
May I ask what compels you
The duty which I owe as a Christian
to a dying man
You have established your claim on my attention
My time is yours
I will not abuse your kindness
He might as well have asked me if I could perform a miracle. I could only say No. 'If I dictate the words,' he went on, 'can you write what I tell you to write?' Once more I could only say No I understand a little English, but I can neither speak it nor write it. Mr. Armadale understands French when it is spoken (as I speak it to him) slowly, but he cannot express himself in that language; and of German he is totally ignorant. In this difficulty, I said, what any one else in my situation would have said: 'Why ask _me_? there is Mrs. Armadale at your service in the next room.' Before I could get up from my chair to fetch her, he stopped me -- not by words, but by a look of horror which fixed me, by main force of astonishment, in my place. 'Surely,' I said, 'your wife is the fittest person to write for you as you desire?' 'The last person under heaven!' he answered. 'What!' I said, 'you ask me, a foreigner and a stranger, to write words at your dictation which you keep a secret from your wife!' Conceive my astonishment when he answered me, without a moment's hesitation, 'Yes!' I sat lost; I sat silent. 'If _you_ can't write English,' he said, 'find somebody who can.' I tried to remonstrate. He burst into a dreadful moaning cry -- a dumb entreaty, like the entreaty of a dog. 'Hush! hush!' I said, 'I will find somebody.' 'To-day!' he broke out, 'before my speech fails me, like my hand.' 'To-day, in an hour's time.' He shut his eyes; he quieted himself instantly. 'While I am waiting for you,' he said, 'let me see my little boy.' He had shown no tenderness when he spoke of his wife, but I saw the tears on his cheeks when he asked for his child. My profession, sir, has not made me so hard a man as you might think; and my doctor's heart was as heavy, when I went out to fetch the child, as if I had not been a doctor at all. I am afraid you think this rather weak on my part
Go on
I presume you have not told me all that you have to tell me, yet
Surely you understand my object in coming here, now
Your object is plain enough, at last. You invite me to connect myself blindfold with a matter which is in the last degree suspicious, so far. I decline giving you any answer until I know more than I know now. Did you think it necessary to inform this man's wife of what had passed between you, and to ask her for an explanation
Of course I thought it necessary
If ever I saw a woman fond of her husband, and sorry for her husband, it is this unhappy Mrs. Armadale. As soon as we were left alone together, I sat down by her side, and I took her hand in mine. Why not? I am an ugly old man, and I may allow myself such liberties as these
Excuse me
I beg to suggest that you are losing the thread of the narrative
Nothing more likely
It is in the habit of my nation to be perpetually losing the thread; and it is evidently in the habit of yours, sir, to be perpetually finding it. What an example here of the order of the universe, and the everlasting fitness of things
Will you oblige me, once for all, by confining yourself to the facts
May I inquire, for my own information, whether Mrs. Armadale could tell you what it is her husband wishes me to write, and why it is that he refuses to let her write for him
There is my thread found -- and thank you for finding it
You shall hear what Mrs. Armadale had to tell me, in Mrs. Armadale's own words. 'The cause that now shuts me out of his confidence,' she said, 'is, I firmly believe, the same cause that has always shut me out of his heart. I am the wife he has wedded, but I am not the woman he loves. I knew when he married me that another man had won from him the woman he loved. I thought I could make him forget her. I hoped when I married him; I hoped again when I bore him a son. Need I tell you the end of my hopes -- you have seen it for yourself.' (Wait, sir, I entreat you! I have not lost the thread again; I am following it inch by inch.) 'Is this all you know?' I asked. 'All I knew,' she said, 'till a short time since. It was when we were in Switzerland, and when his illness was nearly at its worst, that news came to him by accident of that other woman who has been the shadow and the poison of my life -- news that she (like me) had borne her husband a son. On the instant of his making that discovery -- a trifling discovery, if ever there was one yet -- a mortal fear seized on him: not for me, not for himself; a fear for his own child. The same day (without a word to me) he sent for the doctor. I was mean, wicked, what you please -- I listened at the door. I heard him say: _I have something to tell my son, when my son grows old enough to understand me. Shall I live to tell it_? The doctor would say nothing certain. The same night (still without a word to me) he locked himself into his room. What would any woman, treated as I was, have done in my place? She would have done as I did -- she would have listened again. I heard him say to himself: _I shall not live to tell it: I must; write it before I die_. I heard his pen scrape, scrape, scrape over the paper; I heard him groaning and sobbing as he wrote; I implored him for God's sake to let me in. The cruel pen went scrape, scrape, scrape; the cruel pen was all the answer he gave me. I waited at the door -- hours -- I don't know how long. On a sudden, the pen stopped; and I heard no more. I whispered through the keyhole softly; I said I was cold and weary with waiting; I said, Oh, my love, let me in! Not even the cruel pen answered me now: silence answered me. With all the strength of my miserable hands I beat at the door. The servants came up and broke it in. We were too late; the harm was done. Over that fatal letter, the stroke had struck him -- over that fatal letter, we found him paralyzed as you see him now. Those words which he wants you to write are the words he would have written himself if the stroke had spared him till the morning. From that time to this there has been a blank place left in the letter; and it is that blank place which he has just asked you to fill up.' -- In those words Mrs. Armadale spoke to me; in those words you have the sum and substance of all the information I can give. Say, if you please, sir, have I kept the thread at last? Have I shown you the necessity which brings me here from your countryman's death-bed
Thus far
you merely show me that you are exciting yourself. This is too serious a matter to be treated as you are treating it now. You have involved Me in the business, and I insist on seeing my way plainly. Don't raise your hands; your hands are not a part of the question. If I am to be concerned in the completion of this mysterious letter, it is only an act of justifiable prudence on my part to inquire what the letter is about. Mrs. Armadale appears to have favored you with an infinite number of domestic particulars -- in return, I presume, for your polite attention in taking her by the hand. May I ask what she could tell you about her husband's letter, so far as her husband has written it
Mrs. Armadale could tell me nothing
Before she was composed enough to think of the letter, her husband had asked for it, and had caused it to be locked up in his desk. She knows that he has since, time after time, tried to finish it, and that, time after time, the pen has dropped from his fingers. She knows, when all other hope of his restoration was at an end, that his medical advisers encouraged him to hope in the famous waters of this place. And last, she knows how that hope has ended; for she knows what I told her husband this morning
The more I think of the position you are asking me to take
the less I like it. Can you undertake to say positively that Mr. Armadale is in his right mind
Yes; as positively as words can say it
Does his wife sanction your coming here to request my interference
His wife sends me to you -- the only Englishman in Wildbad -- to write for your dying countryman what he cannot write for himself; and what no one else in this place but you can write for him
Wait a little
You put it strongly; let us be quite sure you put it correctly as well. Let us be quite sure there is nobody to take this responsibility but myself. There is a mayor in Wildbad, to begin with -- a man who possesses an official character to justify his interference
A man of a thousand
With one fault -- he knows no language but his own
There is an English legation at Stuttgart
And there are miles on miles of the forest between this and Stuttgart
If we sent this moment, we could get no help from the legation before to-morrow; and it is as likely as not, in the state of this dying man's articulation, that to-morrow may find him speechless. I don't know whether his last wishes are wishes harmless to his child and to others, wishes hurtful to his child and to others; but I _do_ know that they must be fulfilled at once or never, and that you are the only man that can help him
My position is forced on me
I have no choice but to accept it
I wish to God
I knew English enough to take your place at Mr. Armadale's bedside
Bating your taking the name of the Almighty in vain
I entirely agree with you. I wish you did
I must see Mrs. Armadale
I decline acting in the matter unless Mrs. Armadale authorizes my interference with her own lips
Mrs. Armadale is probably with her husband
I am afraid I spoke a little harshly, sir, when we were leaving your room
I beg your pardon for it, with all my heart. Before this poor afflicted lady comes in, will you -- will you excuse my asking your utmost gentleness and consideration for her
No, sir
I won't excuse you. What right have I given you to think me wanting in gentleness and consideration toward anybody
I beg your pardon again
Mrs. Armadale is here
I have no words to thank you
I should only distress you if I tried to speak
Don't be afraid of him
He was hard as iron in my hands, but I think, by the look of him, he will be soft as wax in yours. Say the words I told you to say, and let us take him to your husband's room, before those sharp wits of his have time to recover themselves
My kind friend, the doctor, has told me, sir, that your only hesitation in coming here is a hesitation on my account
I am deeply grateful, but I entreat you not to think of _me_. What my husband wishes
What my husband wishes in his last moments, I wish too
I was only anxious to show you every consideration
I am only anxious now to spare you every distress
Are you the man
I have been made acquainted with your sad situation, sir
and I have come here to place my services at your disposal -- services which no one but myself, as your medical attendant informs me, is in a position to render you in this strange place. My name is Neal. I am a writer to the signet in Edinburgh; and I may presume to say for myself that any confidence you wish to place in me will be confidence not improperly bestowed
You wish me to write something for you
Yes
My hand is gone, and my speech is going. Write
May I ask, sir, before I take the pen in hand, what it is you wish me to write
When I have written what you wish me to write
what is to be done with it
Seal it up in my presence, and post it to my ex
Do you mean your executor
Yes
It is a letter, I suppose, that I am to post
May I ask if it is a letter altering your will
Nothing of the sort
My husband is very anxious
Will you quiet his anxiety, sir, by taking your place at the writing-table
I will write what you wish me to write
I will seal it in your presence; and I will post it to your executor myself. But, in engaging to do this, I must beg you to remember that I am acting entirely in the dark; and I must ask you to excuse me, if I reserve my own entire freedom of action, when your wishes in relation to the writing and the posting of the letter have been fulfilled
Do you give me your promise
It you want my promise, sir, I will give it -- subject to the condition I have just named
Take your condition, and keep your promise. My desk
No
No
Shall I open your desk
These
Yes
You can go now
You can go now
Oh, Allan, think how I have loved you! think how hard I have tried to make you happy! think how soon I shall lose you! Oh, my own love! don't, don't send me away
Let me stay
It will only distress you
Nothing distresses me, but being sent away from _you_
If I let you stay a little
Yes! yes
Will you go when I tell you
I will
On your oath
On my oath
Read it out from the beginning. I must and will hear it
Perhaps, sir, you may wish to make some corrections
Shall I read over to you what you have already written
You _will_ hear it
Read it
and stop when I tell you
I address this letter to my son, when my son is of an age to understand it. Having lost all hope of living to see my boy grow up to manhood, I have no choice but to write here what I would fain have said to him at a future time with my own lips. "I have three objects in writing. First, to reveal the circumstances which attended the marriage of an English lady of my acquaintance, in the island of Madeira. Secondly, to throw the true light on the death of her husband a short time afterward, on board the French timber ship _La Grace de Dieu_. Thirdly, to warn my son of a danger that lies in wait for him -- a danger that will rise from his father's grave when the earth has closed over his father's ashes. 

"The story of the English lady's marriage begins with my inheriting the great Armadale property, and my taking the fatal Armadale name. 

"I am the only surviving son of the late Mathew Wrentmore, of Barbadoes. I was born on our family estate in that island, and I lost my father when I was still a child. My mother was blindly fond of me; she denied me nothing, she let me live as I pleased. My boyhood and youth were passed in idleness and self-indulgence, among people -- slaves and half-castes mostly -- to whom my will was law. I doubt if there is a gentleman of my birth and station in all England as ignorant as I am at this moment. I doubt if there was ever a young man in this world whose passions were left so entirely without control of any kind as mine were in those early days. 

"My mother had a woman's romantic objection to my father's homely Christian name. I was christened Allan, after the name of a wealthy cousin of my father's -- the late Allan Armadale -- who possessed estates in our neighborhood, the largest and most productive in the island, and who consented to be my godfather by proxy. Mr. Armadale had never seen his West Indian property. He lived in England; and, after sending me the customary godfather's present, he held no further communication with my parents for years afterward. I was just twenty-one before we heard again from Mr. Armadale. On that occasion my mother received a letter from him asking if I was still alive, and offering no less (if I was) than to make me the heir to his West Indian property. 

"This piece of good fortune fell to me entirely through the misconduct of Mr. Armadale's son, an only child. The young man had disgraced himself beyond all redemption; had left his home an outlaw; and had been thereupon renounced by his father at once and forever. Having no other near male relative to succeed him, Mr. Armadale thought of his cousin's son and his own godson; and he offered the West Indian estate to me, and my heirs after me, on one condition -- that I and my heirs should take his name. The proposal was gratefully accepted, and the proper legal measures were adopted for changing my name in the colony and in the mother country. By the next mail information reached Mr. Armadale that his condition had been complied with. The return mail brought news from the lawyers. The will had been altered in my favor, and in a week afterward the death of my benefactor had made me the largest proprietor and the richest man in Barbadoes. 

"This was the first event in the chain. The second event followed it six weeks afterward. 

"At that time there happened to be a vacancy in the clerk's office on the estate, and there came to fill it a young man about my own age who had recently arrived in the island. He announced himself by the name of Fergus Ingleby. My impulses governed me in everything; I knew no law but the law of my own caprice, and I took a fancy to the stranger the moment I set eyes on him. He had the manners of a gentleman, and he possessed the most attractive social qualities which, in my small experience, I had ever met with. When I heard that the written references to character which he had brought with him were pronounced to be unsatisfactory, I interfered, and insisted that he should have the place. My will was law, and he had it. 

"My mother disliked and distrusted Ingleby from the first. When she found the intimacy between us rapidly ripening; when she found me admitting this inferior to the closest companionship and confidence (I had lived with my inferiors all my life, and I liked it), she made effort after effort to part us, and failed in one and all. Driven to her last resources, she resolved to try the one chance left -- the chance of persuading me to take a voyage which I had often thought of -- a voyage to England. 

"Before she spoke to me on the subject, she resolved to interest me in the idea of seeing England, as I had never been interested yet. She wrote to an old friend and an old admirer of hers, the late Stephen Blanchard, of Thorpe Ambrose, in Norfolk -- a gentleman of landed estate, and a widower with a grown-up family. After-discoveries informed me that she must have alluded to their former attachment (which was checked, I believe, by the parents on either side); and that, in asking Mr. Blanchard's welcome for her son when he came to England, she made inquiries about his daughter, which hinted at the chance of a marriage uniting the two families, if the young lady and I met and liked one another. We were equally matched in every respect, and my mother's recollection of her girlish attachment to Mr. Blanchard made the prospect of my marrying her old admirer's daughter the brightest and happiest prospect that her eyes could see. Of all this I knew nothing until Mr. Blanchard's answer arrived at Barbadoes. Then my mother showed me the letter, and put the temptation which was to separate me from Fergus Ingleby openly in my way. 

"Mr. Blanchard's letter was dated from the Island of Madeira. He was out of health, and he had been ordered there by the doctors to try the climate. His daughter was with him. After heartily reciprocating all my mother's hopes and wishes, he proposed (if I intended leaving Barbadoes shortly) that I should take Madeira on my way to England, and pay him a visit at his temporary residence in the island. If this could not be, he mentioned the time at which he expected to be back in England, when I might be sure of finding a welcome at his own house of Thorpe Ambrose. In conclusion, he apologized for not writing at greater length; explaining that his sight was affected, and that he had disobeyed the doctor's orders by yielding to the temptation of writing to his old friend with his own hand. 

"Kindly as it was expressed, the letter itself might have had little influence on me. But there was something else besides the letter; there was inclosed in it a miniature portrait of Miss Blanchard. At the back of the portrait, her father had written, half-jestingly, half-tenderly, 'I can't ask my daughter to spare my eyes as usual, without telling her of your inquiries, and putting a young lady's diffidence to the blush. So I send her in effigy (without her knowledge) to answer for herself. It is a good likeness of a good girl. If she likes your son -- and if I like him, which I am sure I shall -- we may yet live, my good friend, to see our children what we might once have been ourselves -- man and wife.' My mother gave me the miniature with the letter. The portrait at once struck me -- I can't say why, I can't say how -- as nothing of the kind had ever struck me before. 

"Harder intellects than mine might have attributed the extraordinary impression produced on me to the disordered condition of my mind at that time; to the weariness of my own base pleasures which had been gaining on me for months past, to the undefined longing which that weariness implied for newer interests and fresher hopes than any that had possessed me yet. I attempted no such sober self-examination as this: I believed in destiny then, I believe in destiny now. It was enough for me to know -- as I did know -- that the first sense I had ever felt of something better in my nature than my animal self was roused by that girl's face looking at me from her picture as no woman's face had ever looked at me yet. In those tender eyes -- in the chance of making that gentle creature my wife -- I saw my destiny written. The portrait which had come into my hands so strangely and so unexpectedly was the silent messenger of happiness close at hand, sent to warn, to encourage, to rouse me before it was too late. I put the miniature under my pillow at night; I looked at it again the next morning. My conviction of the day before remained as strong as ever; my superstition (if you please to call it so) pointed out to me irresistibly the way on which I should go. There was a ship in port which was to sail for England in a fortnight, touching at Madeira. In that ship I took my passage
Was she a fair woman
or dark, like me
Was she a fair woman, or dark, like me
Fair
I have said
I have no proof against Ingleby. There was more than one woman on the island whom I had wronged beyond all forgiveness, and whose vengeance might well have reached me at that time. I can accuse nobody. I can only say that my life was saved by my old black nurse; and that the woman afterward acknowledged having used the known negro antidote to a known negro poison in those parts. When my first days of convalescence came, the ship in which my passage had been taken had long since sailed. When I asked for Ingleby, he was gone. Proofs of his unpardonable misconduct in his situation were placed before me, which not even my partiality for him could resist. He had been turned out of the office in the first days of my illness, and nothing more was known of him but that he had left the island. "All through my sufferings the portrait had been under my pillow. All through my convalescence it was my one consolation when I remembered the past, and my one encouragement when I thought of the future. No words can describe the hold that first fancy had now taken of me -- with time and solitude and suffering to help it. My mother, with all her interest in the match, was startled by the unexpected success of her own project. She had written to tell Mr. Blanchard of my illness, but had received no reply. She now offered to write again, if I would promise not to leave her before my recovery was complete. My impatience acknowledged no restraint. Another ship in port gave me another chance of leaving for Madeira. Another examination of Mr. Blanchard's letter of invitation assured me that I should find him still in the island, if I seized my opportunity on the spot. In defiance of my mother's entreaties, I insisted on taking my passage in the second ship -- and this time, when the ship sailed, I was on board. 

"The change did me good; the sea-air made a man of me again. After an unusually rapid voyage, I found myself at the end of my pilgrimage. On a fine, still evening which I can never forget, I stood alone on the shore, with her likeness in my bosom, and saw the white walls of the house where I knew that she lived. 

"I strolled round the outer limits of the grounds to compose myself before I went in. Venturing through a gate and a shrubbery, I looked into the garden, and saw a lady there, loitering alone on the lawn. She turned her face toward me -- and I beheld the original of my portrait, the fulfillment of my dream! It is useless, and worse than useless, to write of it now. Let me only say that every promise which the likeness had made to my fancy the living woman kept to my eyes in the moment when they first looked on her. Let me say this -- and no more. 

"I was too violently agitated to trust myself in her presence. I drew back undiscovered, and, making my way to the front door of the house, asked for her father first. Mr. Blanchard had retired to his room, and could see nobody. Upon that I took courage, and asked for Miss Blanchard. The servant smiled. 'My young lady is not Miss Blanchard any longer, sir,' he said. 'She is married.' Those words would have struck some men, in my position, to the earth. They fired my hot blood, and I seized the servant by the throat, in a frenzy of rage 'It's a lie!' I broke out, speaking to him as if he had been one of the slaves on my own estate. 'It's the truth,' said the man, struggling with me; 'her husband is in the house at this moment.' 'Who is he, you scoundrel?'The servant answered by repeating my own name, to my own face: '_Allan Armadale_.' 

"You can now guess the truth. Fergus Ingleby was the outlawed son whose name and whose inheritance I had taken. And Fergus Ingleby was even with me for depriving him of his birthright. 

"Some account of the manner in which the deception had been carried out is necessary to explain -- I don't say to justify -- the share I took in the events that followed my arrival at Madeira. 

"By Ingleby's own confession, he had come to Barbadoes -- knowing of his father's death and of my succession to the estates -- with the settled purpose of plundering and injuring me. My rash confidence put such an opportunity into his hands as he could never have hoped for. He had waited to possess himself of the letter which my mother wrote to Mr. Blanchard at the outset of my illness -- had then caused his own dismissal from his situation -- and had sailed for Madeira in the very ship that was to have sailed with me. Arrived at the island, he had waited again till the vessel was away once more on her voyage, and had then presented himself at Mr. Blanchard's -- not in the assumed name by which I shall continue to speak of him here, but in the name which was as certainly his as mine, 'Allan Armadale.' The fraud at the outset presented few difficulties. He had only an ailing old man (who had not seen my mother for half a lifetime) and an innocent, unsuspicious girl (who had never seen her at all) to deal with; and he had learned enough in my service to answer the few questions that were put to him as readily as I might have answered them myself. His looks and manners, his winning ways with women, his quickness and cunning, did the rest. While I was still on my sickbed, he had won Miss Blanchard's affections. While I was dreaming over the likeness in the first days of my convalescence, he had secured Mr. Blanchard's consent to the celebration of the marriage before he and his daughter left the island. 

"Thus far Mr. Blanchard's infirmity of sight had helped the deception. He had been content to send messages to my mother, and to receive the messages which were duly invented in return. But when the suitor was accepted, and the wedding-day was appointed, he felt it due to his old friend to write to her, asking her formal consent and inviting her to the marriage. He could only complete part of the letter himself; the rest was finished, under his dictation, by Miss Blanchard. There was no chance of being beforehand with the post-office this time; and Ingleby, sure of his place in the heart of his victim, waylaid her as she came out of her father's room with the letter, and privately told her the truth. She was still under age, and the position was a serious one. If the letter was posted, no resource would be left but to wait and be parted forever, or to elope under circumstances which made detection almost a certainty. The destination of any ship which took them away would be known beforehand; and the fast-sailing yacht in which Mr. Blanchard had come to Madeira was waiting in the harbor to take him back to England. The only other alternative was to continue the deception by suppressing the letter, and to confess the truth when they were securely married. What arts of persuasion Ingleby used -- what base advantage he might previously have taken of her love and her trust in him to degrade Miss Blanchard to his own level -- I cannot say. He did degrade her. The letter never went to its destination; and, with the daughter's privity and consent, the father's confidence was abused to the very last. 

"The one precaution now left to take was to fabricate the answer from my mother which Mr. Blanchard expected, and which would arrive in due course of post before the day appointed for the marriage. Ingleby had my mother's stolen letter with him; but he was without the imitative dexterity which would have enabled him to make use of it for a forgery of her handwriting. Miss Blanchard, who had consented passively to the deception, refused to take any active share in the fraud practiced on her father. In this difficulty, Ingleby found an instrument ready to his hand in an orphan girl of barely twelve years old, a marvel of precocious ability, whom Miss Blanchard had taken a romantic fancy to befriend and whom she had brought away with her from England to be trained as her maid. That girl's wicked dexterity removed the one serious obstacle left to the success of the fraud. I saw the imitation of my mother's writing which she had produced under Ingleby's instructions and (if the shameful truth must be told) with her young mistress's knowledge -- and I believe I should have been deceived by it myself. I saw the girl afterward -- and my blood curdled at the sight of her. If she is alive now, woe to the people who trust her! No creature more innately deceitful and more innately pitiless ever walked this earth. 

"The forged letter paved the way securely for the marriage; and when I reached the house, they were (as the servant had truly told me) man and wife. My arrival on the scene simply precipitated the confession which they had both agreed to make. Ingleby's own lips shamelessly acknowledged the truth. He had nothing to lose by speaking out -- he was married, and his wife's fortune was beyond her father's control. I pass over all that followed -- my interview with the daughter, and my interview with the father -- to come to results. For two days the efforts of the wife, and the efforts of the clergyman who had celebrated the marriage, were successful in keeping Ingleby and myself apart. On the third day I set my trap more successfully, and I and the man who had mortally injured me met together alone, face to face. 

"Remember how my confidence had been abused; remember how the one good purpose of my life had been thwarted; remember the violent passions rooted deep in my nature, and never yet controlled -- and then imagine for yourself what passed between us. All I need tell here is the end. He was a taller and a stronger man than I, and he took his brute's advantage with a brute's ferocity. He struck me. 

"Think of the injuries I had received at that man's hands, and then think of his setting his mark on my face by a blow! 

"I went to an English officer who had been my fellow-passenger on the voyage from Barbadoes. I told him the truth, and he agreed with me that a meeting was inevitable. Dueling had its received formalities and its established laws in those days; and he began to speak of them. I stopped him. 'I will take a pistol in my right hand,' I said, 'and he shall take a pistol in his: I will take one end of a handkerchief in my left hand, and he shall take the other end in his; and across that handkerchief the duel shall be fought.' The officer got up, and looked at me as if I had personally insulted him. 'You are asking me to be present at a murder and a suicide,' he said; 'I decline to serve you.' He left the room. As soon as he was gone I wrote down the words I had said to the officer and sent them by a messenger to Ingleby. While I was waiting for an answer, I sat down before the glass, and looked at his mark on my face. 'Many a man has had blood on his hands and blood on his conscience,' I thought, 'for less than this.' 

"The messenger came back with Ingleby's answer. It appointed a meeting for three o'clock the next day, at a lonely place in the interior of the island. I had resolved what to do if he refused; his letter released me from the horror of my own resolution. I felt grateful to him -- yes, absolutely grateful to him -- for writing it. 

"The next day I went to the place. He was not there. I waited two hours, and he never came. At last the truth dawned on me. 'Once a coward, always a coward,' I thought. I went back to Mr. Blanchard's house. Before I got there, a sudden misgiving seized me, and I turned aside to the harbor. I was right; the harbor was the place to go to. A ship sailing for Lisbon that afternoon had offered him the opportunity of taking a passage for himself and his wife, and escaping me. His answer to my challenge had served its purpose of sending me out of the way into the interior of the island. Once more I had trusted in Fergus Ingleby, and once more those sharp wits of his had been too much for me. 

"I asked my informant if Mr. Blanchard was aware as yet of his daughter's departure. He had discovered it, but not until the ship had sailed. This time I took a lesson in cunning from Ingleby. Instead of showing myself at Mr. Blanchard's house, I went first and looked at Mr. Blanchard's yacht. 

"The vessel told me what the vessel's master might have concealed -- the truth. I found her in the confusion of a sudden preparation for sea. All the crew were on board, with the exception of some few who had been allowed their leave on shore, and who were away in the interior of the island, nobody knew where. When I discovered that the sailing-master was trying in, to supply their places with the best men he could pick up at a moment's notice, my resolution was instantly taken. I knew the duties on board a yacht well enough, having had a vessel of my own, and having sailed her myself. Hurrying into the town, I changed my dress for a sailor's coat and hat, and, returning to the harbor, I offered myself as one of the volunteer crew. I don't know what the sailing-master saw in my face. My answers to his questions satisfied him, and yet he looked at me and hesitated. But hands were scarce, and it ended in my being taken on board. An hour later Mr. Blanchard joined us, and was assisted into the cabin, suffering pitiably in mind and body both. An hour after that we were at sea, with a starless night overhead, and a fresh breeze behind us. 

"As I had surmised, we were in pursuit of the vessel in which Ingleby and his wife had left the island that afternoon. The ship was French, and was employed in the timber trade: her name was _La Grace de Dieu_. Nothing more was known of her than that she was bound for Lisbon; that she had been driven out of her course; and that she had touched at Madeira, short of men and short of provisions. The last want had been supplied, but not the first. Sailors distrusted the sea-worthiness of the ship, and disliked the look of the vagabond crew. When those two serious facts had been communicated to Mr. Blanchard, the hard words he had spoken to his child in the first shock of discovering that she had helped to deceive him smote him to the heart. He instantly determined to give his daughter a refuge on board his own vessel, and to quiet her by keeping her villain of a husband out of the way of all harm at my hands. The yacht sailed three feet and more to the ship's one. There was no doubt of our overtaking _La Grace de Dieu_; the only fear was that we might pass her in the darkness. 

"After we had been some little time out, the wind suddenly dropped, and there fell on us an airless, sultry calm. When the order came to get the topmasts on deck, and to shift the large sails, we all knew what to expect. In little better than an hour more, the storm was upon us, the thunder was pealing over our heads, and the yacht was running for it. She was a powerful schooner-rigged vessel of three hundred tons, as strong as wood and iron could make her; she was handled by a sailing-master who thoroughly understood his work, and she behaved nobly. As the new morning came, the fury of the wind, blowing still from the southwest quarter, subsided a little, and the sea was less heavy. Just before daybreak we heard faintly, through the howling of the gale, the report of a gun. The men collected anxiously on deck, looked at each other, and said: 'There she is!' 

"With the daybreak we saw the vessel, and the timber-ship it was. She lay wallowing in the trough of the sea, her foremast and her mainmast both gone -- a water-logged wreck. The yacht carried three boats; one amidships, and two slung to davits on the quarters; and the sailing-master, seeing signs of the storm renewing its fury before long, determined on lowering the quarter-boats while the lull lasted. Few as the people were on board the wreck, they were too many for one boat, and the risk of trying two boats at once was thought less, in the critical state of the weather, than the risk of making two separate trips from the yacht to the ship. There might be time to make one trip in safety, but no man could look at the heavens and say there would be time enough for two. 

"The boats were manned by volunteers from the crew, I being in the second of the two. When the first boat was got alongside of the timber-ship -- a service of difficulty and danger which no words can describe -- all the men on board made a rash to leave the wreck together. If the boat had not been pulled off again before the whole of them had crowded in, the lives of all must have been sacrificed. As our boat approached the vessel in its turn, we arranged that four of us should get on board -- two (I being one of them) to see to the safety of Mr. Blanchard's daughter, and two to beat back the cowardly remnant of the crew if they tried to crowd in first. The other three -- the coxswain and two oarsmen -- were left in the boat to keep her from being crushed by the ship. What the others saw when they first boarded _La Grace de Dieu_ I don't know; what I saw was the woman whom I had lost, the woman vilely stolen from me, lying in a swoon on the deck. We lowered her, insensible, into the boat. The remnant of the crew -- five in number -- were compelled by main force to follow her in an orderly manner, one by one, and minute by minute, as the chance offered for safely taking them in. I was the last who left; and, at the next roll of the ship toward us, the empty length of the deck, without a living creature on it from stem to stern, told the boat's crew that their work was done. With the louder and louder howling of the fast-rising tempest to warn them, they rowed for their lives back to the yacht. 

"A succession of heavy squalls had brought round the course of the new storm that was coming, from the south to the north; and the sailing-master, watching his opportunity, had wore the yacht to be ready for it. Before the last of our men had got on board again, it burst on us with the fury of a hurricane. Our boat was swamped, but not a life was lost. Once more we ran before it, due south, at the mercy of the wind. I was on deck with the rest, watching the one rag of sail we could venture to set, and waiting to supply its place with another, if it blew out of the bolt-ropes, when the mate came close to me, and shouted in my ear through the thunder of the storm: 'She has come to her senses in the cabin, and has asked for her husband. Where is he?' Not a man on board knew. The yacht was searched from one end to another without finding him. The men were mustered in defiance of the weather -- he was not among them. The crews of the two boats were questioned. All the first crew could say was that they had pulled away from the wreck when the rush into their boat took place, and that they knew nothing of whom they let in or whom they kept out. All the second crew could say was that they had brought back to the yacht every living soul left by the first boat on the deck of the timber-ship. There was no blaming anybody; but, at the same time, there was no resisting the fact that the man was missing. 

"All through that day the storm, raging unabatedly, never gave us even the shadow of a chance of returning and searching the wreck. The one hope for the yacht was to scud. Toward evening the gale, after having carried us to the southward of Madeira, began at last to break -- the wind shifted again -- and allowed us to bear up for the island. Early the next morning we got back into port. Mr. Blanchard and his daughter were taken ashore, the sailing-master accompanying them, and warning us that he should have something to say on his return which would nearly concern the whole crew. 

"We were mustered on deck, and addressed by the sailing-master as soon as he came on board again. He had Mr. Blanchard's orders to go back at once to the timber-ship and to search for the missing man. We were bound to do this for his sake, and for the sake of his wife, whose reason was despaired of by the doctors if something was not done to quiet her. We might be almost sure of finding the vessel still afloat, for her ladling of timber would keep her above water as long as her hull held together. If the man was on board -- living or dead -- he must be found and brought back. And if the weather continued to be moderate, there was no reason why the men, with proper assistance, should not bring the ship back, too, and (their master being quite willing) earn their share of the salvage with the officers of the yacht. 

"Upon this the crew gave three cheers, and set to work forthwith to get the schooner to sea again. I was the only one of them who drew back from the enterprise. I told them the storm had upset me -- I was ill, and wanted rest. They all looked me in the face as I passed through them on my way out of the yacht, but not a man of them spoke to me. 

"I waited through that day at a tavern on the port for the first news from the wreck. It was brought toward night-fall by one of the pilot-boats which had taken part in the enterprise -- a successful enterprise, as the event proved -- for saving the abandoned ship. _La Grace de Dieu_ had been discovered still floating, and the body of Ingleby had been found on board, drowned in the cabin. At dawn the next morning the dead man was brought back by the yacht; and on the same day the funeral took place in the Protestant cemetery
Stop
Where is she
You promised to go when I told you
Go now
The doctor is accustomed in his profession
and I am accustomed in mine, to have the secrets of others placed in our keeping. But it is my duty, before we go further, to ask if you really understand the extraordinary position which we now occupy toward one another. You have just excluded Mrs. Armadale, before our own eyes, from a place in your confidence. And you are now offering that same place to two men who are total strangers to you
Yes
_because_ you are strangers
You are in urgent need of my help and of the doctor's help
Am I to understand (so long as you secure our assistance) that the impression which the closing passages of this letter may produce on us is a matter of indifference to you
Yes. I don't spare you. I don't spare myself. I _do_ spare my wife
You force me to a conclusion, sir, which is a very serious one
If I am to finish this letter under your dictation, I must claim permission -- having read aloud the greater part of it already -- to read aloud what remains, in the hearing of this gentleman, as a witness
Read it
Was she listening
The women are restoring her
She has heard it all. In God's name, what are we to do next
Go on
I refuse to meddle further with your infamous secret
You are a murderer on your own confession. If that letter is to be finished, don't ask _me_ to hold the pen for you
You gave me your promise
You must write for me, or break your word
A word with you
Do you persist in asserting that he may be speechless before we can send to Stuttgart
Look at his lips
and judge for yourself
Now my eyes are open
do you dare hold me to an engagement which you forced on me blindfold
No
I leave you to break your word
No man ever yet said of me that I broke my word
and not even you shall say it of me now. Mind this! If you hold me to my promise, I hold you to my condition. I have reserved my freedom of action, and I warn you I will use it at my own sole discretion, as soon as I am released from the sight of you
Remember he is dying
Take your place, sir
What remains to be read, I will only read in your hearing. What remains to be written, I will only write in your presence. _You_ brought me here. I have a right to insist -- and I do insist -- on your remaining as a witness to the last
Without a word in my own defense, I have acknowledged my guilt. Without a word in my own defense, I will reveal how the crime was committed. "No thought of him was in my mind, when I saw his wife insensible on the deck of the timber-ship. I did my part in lowering her safely into the boat. Then, and not till then, I felt the thought of him coming back. In the confusion that prevailed while the men of the yacht were forcing the men of the ship to wait their time, I had an opportunity of searching for him unobserved. I stepped back from the bulwark, not knowing whether he was away in the first boat, or whether he was still on board -- I stepped back, and saw him mount the cabin stairs empty-handed, with the water dripping from him. After looking eagerly toward the boat (without noticing me), he saw there was time to spare before the crew were taken. 'Once more!' he said to himself -- and disappeared again, to make a last effort at recovering the jewel box. The devil at my elbow whispered, 'Don't shoot him like a man: drown him like a dog!' He was under water when I bolted the scuttle. But his head rose to the surface before I could close the cabin door. I looked at him, and he looked at me -- and I locked the door in his face. The next minute, I was back among the last men left on deck. The minute after, it was too late to repent. The storm was threatening us with destruction, and the boat's crew were pulling for their lives from the ship. 

"My son! I have pursued you from my grave with a confession which my love might have spared you. Read on, and you will know why. 

"I will say nothing of my sufferings; I will plead for no mercy to my memory. There is a strange sinking at my heart, a strange trembling in my hand, while I write these lines, which warns me to hasten to the end. I left the island without daring to look for the last time at the woman whom I had lost so miserably, whom I had injured so vilely. When I left, the whole weight of the suspicion roused by the manner of Ingleby's death rested on the crew of the French vessel. No motive for the supposed murder could be brought home to any of them; but they were known to be, for the most part, outlawed ruffians capable of any crime, and they were suspected and examined accordingly. It was not till afterward that I heard by accident of the suspicion shifting round at last to me. The widow alone recognized the vague description given of the strange man who had made one of the yacht's crew, and who had disappeared the day afterward. The widow alone knew, from that time forth, why her husband had been murdered, and who had done the deed. When she made that discovery, a false report of my death had been previously circulated in the island. Perhaps I was indebted to the report for my immunity from all legal proceedings; perhaps (no eye but Ingleby's having seen me lock the cabin door) there was not evidence enough to justify an inquiry; perhaps the widow shrank from the disclosures which must have followed a public charge against me, based on her own bare suspicion of the truth. However it might be, the crime which I had committed unseen has remained a crime unpunished from that time to this. 

"I left Madeira for the West Indies in disguise. The first news that met me when the ship touched at Barbadoes was the news of my mother's death. I had no heart to return to the old scenes. The prospect of living at home in solitude, with the torment of my own guilty remembrances gnawing at me day and night, was more than I had the courage to confront. Without landing, or discovering myself to any one on shore, I went on as far as the ship would take me -- to the island of Trinidad. 

"At that place I first saw your mother. It was my duty to tell her the truth -- and I treacherously kept my secret. It was my duty to spare her the hopeless sacrifice of her freedom and her happiness to such an existence as mine -- and I did her the injury of marrying her. If she is alive when you read this, grant her the mercy of still concealing the truth. The one atonement I can make to her is to keep her unsuspicious to the last of the man she has married. Pity her, as I have pitied her. Let this letter be a sacred confidence between father and son. 

"The time when you were born was the time when my health began to give way. Some months afterward, in the first days of my recovery, you were brought to me; and I was told that you had been christened during my illness. Your mother had done as other loving mothers do -- she had christened her first-born by his father's name. You, too, were Allan Armadale. Even in that early time -- even while I was happily ignorant of what I have discovered since -- my mind misgave me when I looked at you, and thought of that fatal name. 

"As soon as I could be moved, my presence was required at my estates in Barbadoes. It crossed my mind -- wild as the idea may appear to you -- to renounce the condition which compelled my son as well as myself to take the Armadale name, or lose the succession to the Armadale property. But, even in those days, the rumor of a contemplated emancipation of the slaves -- the emancipation which is now close at hand -- was spreading widely in the colony. No man could tell how the value of West Indian property might be affected if that threatened change ever took place. No man could tell -- if I gave you back my own paternal name, and left you without other provision in the future than my own paternal estate -- how you might one day miss the broad Armadale acres, or to what future penury I might be blindly condemning your mother and yourself. Mark how the fatalities gathered one on the other! Mark how your Christian name came to you, how your surname held to you, in spite of me! 

"My health had improved in my old home -- but it was for a time only. I sank again, and the doctors ordered me to Europe. Avoiding England (why, you may guess), I took my passage, with you and your mother, for France. From France we passed into Italy. We lived here; we lived there. It was useless. Death had got met and Death followed me, go where I might. I bore it, for I had an alleviation to turn to which I had not deserved. You may shrink in horror from the very memory of me now. In those days, you comforted me. The only warmth I still felt at my heart was the warmth you brought to it. My last glimpses of happiness in this world were the glimpses given me by my infant son. 

"We removed from Italy, and went next to Lausanne -- the place from which I am now writing to you. The post of this morning has brought me news, later and fuller than any I had received thus far, of the widow of the murdered man. The letter lies before me while I write. It comes from a friend of my early days, who has seen her, and spoken to her -- who has been the first to inform her that the report of my death in Madeira was false. He writes, at a loss to account for the violent agitation which she showed on hearing that I was still alive, that I was married, and that I had an infant son. He asks me if I can explain it. He speaks in terms of sympathy for her -- a young and beautiful woman, buried in the retirement of a fishing-village on the Devonshire coast; her father dead; her family estranged from her, in merciless disapproval of her marriage. He writes words which might have cut me to the heart, but for a closing passage in his letter, which seized my whole attention the instant I came to it, and which has forced from me the narrative that these pages contain. 

"I now know what never even entered my mind as a suspicion till the letter reached me. I now know that the widow of the man whose death lies at my door has borne a posthumous child. That child is a boy -- a year older than my own son. Secure in her belief in my death, his mother has done what my son's mother did: she has christened her child by his father's name. Again, in the second generation, there are two Allan Armadales as there were in the first. After working its deadly mischief with the fathers, the fatal resemblance of names has descended to work its deadly mischief with the sons. 

"Guiltless minds may see nothing thus far but the result of a series of events which could lead no other way. I -- with that man's life to answer for -- I, going down into my grave, with my crime unpunished and unatoned, see what no guiltless minds can discern. I see danger in the future, begotten of the danger in the past -- treachery that is the offspring of _his_ treachery, and crime that is the child of _my_ crime. Is the dread that now shakes me to the soul a phantom raised by the superstition of a dying man? I look into the Book which all Christendom venerates, and the Book tells me that the sin of the father shall be visited on the child. I look out into the world, and I see the living witnesses round me to that terrible truth. I see the vices which have contaminated the father descending, and contaminating the child; I see the shame which has disgraced the father's name descending, and disgracing the child's. I look in on myself, and I see my crime ripening again for the future in the self-same circumstance which first sowed the seeds of it in the past, and descending, in inherited contamination of evil, from me to my son
I have got what comes next in my mind
Help me to speak it
Despise my dying conviction if you will, but grant me, I solemnly implore you, one last request. My son! the only hope I have left for you hangs on a great doubt -- the doubt whether we are, or are not, the masters of our own destinies. It may be that mortal free-will can conquer mortal fate; and that going, as we all do, inevitably to death, we go inevitably to nothing that is before death. If this be so, indeed, respect -- though you respect nothing else -- the warning which I give you from my grave. Never, to your dying day, let any living soul approach you who is associated, directly or indirectly, with the crime which your father has committed. Avoid the widow of the man I killed -- if the widow still lives. Avoid the maid whose wicked hand smoothed the way to the marriage -- if the maid is still in her service. And more than all, avoid the man who bears the same name as your own. Offend your best benefactor, if that benefactor's influence has connected you one with the other. Desert the woman who loves you, if that woman is a link between you and him. Hide yourself from him under an assumed name. Put the mountains and the seas between you; be ungrateful, be unforgiving; be all that is most repellent to your own gentler nature, rather than live under the same roof, and breathe the same air, with that man. Never let the two Allan Armadales meet in this world: never, never, never! "There lies the way by which you may escape -- if any way there be. Take it, if you prize your own innocence and your own happiness, through all your life to come! 

"I have done. If I could have trusted any weaker influence than the influence of this confession to incline you to my will, I would have spared you the disclosure which these pages contain. You are lying on my breast, sleeping the innocent sleep of a child, while a stranger's hand writes these words for you as they fall from my lips. Think what the strength of my conviction must be, when I can find the courage, on my death-bed, to darken all your young life at its outset with the shadow of your father's crime. Think, and be warned. Think, and forgive me if you can
Is there more to add
The address
To Allan Armadale, junior
Care of Godfrey Hammick, Esq., Offices of Messrs. Hammick and Ridge, Lincoln's Inn Fields, London
Is your executor to open this
No! he is to give it to my son when my son is of an age to understand it
In that case
I will add a dated note to the address, repeating your own words as you have just spoken them, and explaining the circumstances under which my handwriting appears on the document
Do you insist on my posting this
Give him time to think
For the child's sake, give him time to think! A minute may change him
I will give him five minutes
Put the question at once
if you let the five minutes pass, you may be too late
Is that a bad sign
Put your question at once
or you may be too late
Do you know what this is
My letter
Do you insist on my posting it
Yes
Let me call him back; there is time to stop him yet
Where is the letter
In the post." 

THE END OF THE PROLOGUE.


THE STORY.





_BOOK THE FIRST_
Mrs. Armadale
Bless my soul
I can hardly believe my own eyes
Here is an advertisement, Mrs. Armadale, addressed to your son
Another family, and other friends
The person whose name appears in that advertisement is not my son
The name is so very uncommon
It really seemed impossible there could be two persons
There _are_ two
Allan, as you know, is sixteen years old. If you look back at the advertisement, you will find the missing person described as being only fifteen. Although he bears the same surname and the same Christian name, he is, I thank God, in no way whatever related to my son. As long as I live, it will be the object of my hopes and prayers that Allan may never see him, may never even hear of him. My kind friend, I see I surprise you: will you bear with me if I leave these strange circumstances unexplained? There is past misfortune and misery in my early life too painful for me to speak of, even to _you_. Will you help me to bear the remembrance of it, by never referring to this again? Will you do even more -- will you promise not to speak of it to Allan, and not to let that newspaper fall in his way
Which is best
to find out the way to be happy for yourself, or to let other people try if they can find it out for you
This is a sad business
I really don't know what to do for the best about that unfortunate man
You may make your mind quite easy, sir
I settled it all with the landlord a minute ago
You
I have merely given a few simple directions
Our friend the usher is to have everything he requires, and is to be treated like a prince; and when the doctor and the landlord want their money they are to come to me
My dear Allan
when will you learn to think before you act on those generous impulses of yours? You are spending more money already on your yacht-building than you can afford
Only think! we laid the first planks of the deck the day before yesterday
There's just enough of it done to walk on, if you don't feel giddy. I'll help you up the ladder, Mr. Brock, if you'll only come and try
Listen to me
I'm not talking about the yacht now; that is to say, I am only referring to the yacht as an illustration
And a very pretty illustration, too
Find me a smarter little vessel of her size in all England, and I'll give up yacht-building to-morrow. Whereabouts were we in our conversation, sir? I'm rather afraid we have lost ourselves somehow
I am rather afraid one of us is in the habit of losing himself every time he opens his lips
Come, come, Allan, this is serious. You have been rendering yourself liable for expenses which you may not be able to pay. Mind, I am far from blaming you for your kind feeling toward this poor friendless man
Don't be low-spirited about him, sir. He'll get over it -- he'll be all right again in a week or so. A capital fellow, I have not the least doubt
Suppose you ask him to dinner when he gets well, Mr. Brock? I should like to find out (when we are all three snug and friendly together over our wine, you know) how he came by that extraordinary name of his. Ozias Midwinter! Upon my life, his father ought to be ashamed of himself
Will you answer me one question before I go in
This man's bill for lodging and medical attendance may mount to twenty or thirty pounds before he gets well again, if he ever does get well. How are you to pay for it
What's that the Chancellor of the Exchequer says when he finds himself in a mess with his accounts, and doesn't see his way out again
He always tells his honorable friend he is quite willing to leave a something or other
A margin
That's it
I'm like the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I'm quite willing to leave a margin. The yacht (bless her heart!) doesn't eat up everything. If I'm short by a pound or two, don't be afraid, sir. There's no pride about me; I'll go round with the hat, and get the balance in the neighborhood. Deuce take the pounds, shillings, and pence! I wish they could all three get rid of themselves, like the Bedouin brothers at the show. Don't you remember the Bedouin brothers, Mr. Brock? 'Ali will take a lighted torch, and jump down the throat of his brother Muli; Muli will take a lighted torch, and jump down the throat of his brother Hassan; and Hassan, taking a third lighted torch, will conclude the performances by jumping down his own throat, and leaving the spectators in total darkness.' Wonderfully good, that -- what I call real wit, with a fine strong flavor about it. Wait a minute! Where are we? We have lost ourselves again. Oh, I remember -- money. What I can't beat into my thick head
is the meaning of the fuss that's made about giving money away. Why can't the people who have got money to spare give it to the people who haven't got money to spare, and make things pleasant and comfortable all the world over in that way? You're always telling me to cultivate ideas, Mr. Brock There's an idea, and, upon my life, I don't think it's a bad one
Go back to your yacht
All the little discretion you have got in that flighty head of yours is left on board in your tool-chest. How that lad will end
is more than any human being can say. I almost wish I had never taken the responsibility of him on my shoulders
Find out everything about his father and mother
Make sure before you leave him that he is not a vagabond roaming the country under an assumed name
My dear lady
whatever else we may doubt, I really think we may feel sure about the man's name! It is so remarkably ugly that it must be genuine. No sane human being would _assume_ such a name as Ozias Midwinter
You may be quite right, and I may be quite wrong; but pray go and see him
Go, and don't spare him, Mr. Brock. How do we know that this illness of his may not have been put on for a purpose
God forgive me
I wish I could see my way to turning Ozias Midwinter adrift in the world again
So help me God
I never met with the like of him: I never heard of the like of him before
I beg your pardon, sir
You meant that kindly, sir
I don't complain of your thinking better of it. A man who can't give a proper account of himself is not a man for a gentleman in your position to take by the hand
You have something to say to me
and it is not what you are saying now
I understand you, sir
Mr. Armadale has an ascertained position in the world; Mr. Armadale has nothing to conceal, and nothing to be ashamed of. I agree with you that I am not a fit companion for him. The best return I can make for his kindness is to presume on it no longer. You may depend on my leaving this place to-morrow morning
Don't blame Mr. Brock; Mr. Brock is right. Thank you, and good-by.-- O. M
I like the poor fellow, and I won't give him up
Don't be afraid of my vexing my mother; I'll leave you to speak to her, Mr. Brock, at your own time and in your own way; and I'll just say this much more by way of bringing the thing to an end. Here is the address safe in my pocket-book, and here am I, standing firm for once on a resolution of my own. I'll give you and my mother time to reconsider this; and, when the time is up, if my friend Midwinter doesn't come to _me_, I'll go to my friend Midwinter
Is this person
connected in any way with the painful remembrances of your early life
Yes; with the painful remembrance of the time when I was married
She was associated, as a mere child, with a circumstance which I must think of with shame and sorrow to my dying day
Can you tell me more about her without referring to yourself
I am sure I can protect you, if you will only help me a little. Her name, for instance -- you can tell me her name
The name I knew her by
would be of no use to you. She has been married since then; she told me so herself
And without telling you her married name
She refused to tell it
Do you know anything of her friends
Only of her friends when she was a child. They called themselves her uncle and aunt. They were low people, and they deserted her at the school on my father's estate. We never heard any more of them
Did she remain under your father's care
She remained under my care; that is to say, she traveled with us. We were leaving England, just as that time, for Madeira. I had my father's leave to take her with me, and to train the wretch to be my maid
Don't ask me any more
I parted with her when she was a girl of twelve years old. I never saw her again, I never heard of her again, from that time to this. I don't know how she has discovered me, after all the years that have passed; I only know that she _has_ discovered me. She will find her way to Allan next; she will poison my son's mind against me. Help me to get away from her! help me to take Allan away before she comes back
_Never let his Namesake come near him! Never let that Woman find him out_
I will shake hands with my cousin willingly if I ever meet him
but I will visit no family, and be a guest in no house, in which my mother has been badly treated
in distress
What on earth are you wondering at, gentlemen
Why shouldn't I give the ladies their two months, if the ladies want them? Let the poor things take their own time, and welcome. My rights? and my position? Oh, pooh! pooh! I'm in no hurry to be squire of the parish; it's not in my way. What do I mean to do for the two months? What I should have done anyhow, whether the ladies had stayed or not; I mean to go cruising at sea. That's what _I_ like! I've got a new yacht at home in Somersetshire -- a yacht of my own building. And I'll tell you what, sir
you look sadly in want of a holiday in the fresh air, and you shall come along with me on the trial trip of my new vessel. And your partners, too, if they like. And the head clerk, who is the best fellow I ever met with in my life. Plenty of room -- we'll all shake down together on the floor, and we'll give Mr. Brock a rug on the cabin table. Thorpe Ambrose be hanged! Do you mean to say, if you had built a vessel yourself (as I have), you would go to any estate in the three kingdoms, while your own little beauty was sitting like a duck on the water at home, and waiting for you to try her? You legal gentlemen are great hands at argument. What do you think of that argument? I think it's unanswerable -- and I'm off to Somersetshire to-morrow
He must have been very oddly brought up
Very oddly
I have done what I could, sir
I have kept out of Mr. Armadale's way, and I have not even answered his last letter to me. More than that is more than I can do. I don't ask you to consider my own feeling toward the only human creature who has never suspected and never ill-treated me. I can resist my own feeling, but I can't resist the young gentleman himself. There's not another like him in the world. If we are to be parted again, it must be his doing or yours -- not mine. The dog's master has whistled
and it is hard, sir, to blame the dog when the dog comes
More worries from those everlasting lawyers
If I only had a friend to apply to
If I could only find some one to help me in this miserable place
Let me come in
Are you ill
I have come here to make a clean breast of it
Will you let me in
I saw the light under your door
and I know the trouble on your mind which is keeping you from your rest. You are going away to-morrow morning, and you don't like leaving Mr. Armadale alone with a stranger like me
You have guessed right
I stand in the place of a father to Allan Armadale, and I am naturally unwilling to leave him, at his age, with a man whom I don't know
You have read that Book, in the years of a long life, to many congregations
Has it taught you mercy to your miserable fellow-creatures
Read that
and, for Christ's sake, pity me when you know who I am
Is my father's crime looking at you out of my eyes
Has the ghost of the drowned man followed me into the room
I have no wish to treat you otherwise than justly and kindly
Do me justice on my side, and believe that I am incapable of cruelly holding you responsible for your father's crime
Have you read this through
Every word of it, from first to last
Have I dealt openly with you so far. Has Ozias Midwinter
Do you still call yourself by that name
now your true name is known to me
Since I have read my father's confession
I like my ugly alias better than ever. Allow me to repeat the question which I was about to put to you a minute since: Has Ozias Midwinter done his best thus far to enlighten Mr. Brock
Few men in your position
would have had the courage to show me that letter
Don't be too sure, sir, of the vagabond you picked up at the inn till you know a little more of him than you know now. You have got the secret of my birth, but you are not in possession yet of the story of my life. You ought to know it, and you shall know it, before you leave me alone with Mr. Armadale. Will you wait, and rest a little while, or shall I tell it you now
Now
The first thing you know of me
is what my father's confession has told you already. He mentions here that I was a child, asleep on his breast, when he spoke his last words in this world, and when a stranger's hand wrote them down for him at his deathbed. That stranger's name, as you may have noticed, is signed on the cover -- 'Alexander Neal, Writer to the Signet, Edinburgh.' The first recollection I have is of Alexander Neal beating me with a horsewhip (I dare say I deserved it), in the character of my stepfather
Have you no recollection of your mother at the same time
Yes; I remember her having shabby old clothes made up to fit me, and having fine new frocks bought for her two children by her second husband. I remember the servants laughing at me in my old things, and the horsewhip finding its way to my shoulders again for losing my temper and tearing my shabby clothes. My next recollection gets on to a year or two later. I remember myself locked up in a lumber-room, with a bit of bread and a mug of water, wondering what it was that made my mother and my stepfather seem to hate the very sight of me. I never settled that question till yesterday, and then I solved the mystery, when my father's letter was put into my hands. My mother knew what had really happened on board the French timber-ship, and my stepfather knew what had really happened, and they were both well aware that the shameful secret which they would fain have kept from every living creature was a secret which would be one day revealed to _me_. There was no help for it -- the confession was in the executor's hands, and there was I, an ill-conditioned brat, with my mother's negro blood in my face, and my murdering father's passions in my heart, inheritor of their secret in spite of them! I don't wonder at the horsewhip now, or the shabby old clothes, or the bread and water in the lumber-room. Natural penalties all of them, sir, which the child was beginning to pay already for the father's sin
Is this the stark insensibility of a vagabond
or the despair, in disguise, of a miserable man
School is my next recollection
a cheap place in a lost corner of Scotland. I was left there, with a bad character to help me at starting. I spare you the story of the master's cane in the schoolroom, and the boys' kicks in the playground. I dare say there was ingrained ingratitude in my nature; at any rate, I ran away. The first person who met me asked my name. I was too young and too foolish to know the importance of concealing it, and, as a matter of course, I was taken back to school the same evening. The result taught me a lesson which I have not forgotten since. In a day or two more, like the vagabond I was, I ran away for the second time. The school watch-dog had had his instructions, I suppose: he stopped me before I got outside the gate. Here is his mark, among the rest, on the back of my hand. His master's marks I can't show you; they are all on my back. Can you believe in my perversity? There was a devil in me that no dog could worry out. I ran away again as soon as I left my bed, and this time I got off. At nightfall I found myself (with a pocketful of the school oatmeal) lost on a moor. I lay down on the fine soft heather, under the lee of a great gray rock. Do you think I felt lonely? Not I! I was away from the master's cane, away from my schoolfellows' kicks, away from my mother, away from my stepfather; and I lay down that night under my good friend the rock, the happiest boy in all Scotland
I slept soundly
under my friend the rock. When I woke in the morning, I found a sturdy old man with a fiddle sitting on one side of me, and two performing dogs on the other. Experience had made me too sharp to tell the truth when the man put his first questions. He didn't press them; he gave me a good breakfast out of his knapsack, and he let me romp with the dogs. 'I'll tell you what,' he said, when he had got my confidence in this manner, 'you want three things, my man: you want a new father, a new family, and a new name. I'll be your father. I'll let you have the dogs for your brothers; and, if you'll promise to be very careful of it, I'll give you my own name into the bargain. Ozias Midwinter, Junior, you have had a good breakfast; if you want a good dinner, come along with me!' He got up, the dogs trotted after him, and I trotted after the dogs. Who was my new father? you will ask. A half-breed gypsy, sir; a drunkard, a ruffian, and a thief -- and the best friend I ever had! Isn't a man your friend who gives you your food, your shelter, and your education? Ozias Midwinter taught me to dance the Highland fling, to throw somersaults, to walk on stilts, and to sing songs to his fiddle. Sometimes we roamed the country, and performed at fairs. Sometimes we tried the large towns, and enlivened bad company over its cups. I was a nice, lively little boy of eleven years old, and bad company, the women especially, took a fancy to me and my nimble feet. I was vagabond enough to like the life. The dogs and I lived together, ate, and drank, and slept together. I can't think of those poor little four-footed brothers of mine, even now, without a choking in the throat. Many is the beating we three took together; many is the hard day's dancing we did together; many is the night we have slept together, and whimpered together, on the cold hill-side. I'm not trying to distress you, sir; I'm only telling you the truth. The life with all its hardships was a life that fitted me, and the half-breed gypsy who gave me his name, ruffian as he was, was a ruffian I liked
A man who beat you
Didn't I tell you just now, sir, that I lived with the dogs? and did you ever hear of a dog who liked his master the worse for beating him? Hundreds of thousands of miserable men, women, and children would have liked that man (as I liked him) if he had always given them what he always gave me -- plenty to eat. It was stolen food mostly, and my new gypsy father was generous with it. He seldom laid the stick on us when he was sober; but it diverted him to hear us yelp when he was drunk. He died drunk, and enjoyed his favorite amusement with his last breath. One day (when I had been two years in his service), after giving us a good dinner out on the moor, he sat down with his back against a stone, and called us up to divert himself with his stick. He made the dogs yelp first, and then he called to me. I didn't go very willingly; he had been drinking harder than usual, and the more he drank the better he liked his after-dinner amusement. He was in high good-humor that day, and he hit me so hard that he toppled over, in his drunken state, with the force of his own blow. He fell with his face in a puddle, and lay there without moving. I and the dogs stood at a distance, and looked at him: we thought he was feigning, to get us near and have another stroke at us. He feigned so long that we ventured up to him at last. It took me some time to pull him over; he was a heavy man. When I did get him on his back, he was dead. We made all the outcry we could; but the dogs were little, and I was little, and the place was lonely; and no help came to us. I took his fiddle and his stick; I said to my two brothers, 'Come along, we must get our own living now;' and we went away heavy-hearted, and left him on the moor. Unnatural as it may seem to you, I was sorry for him. I kept his ugly name through all my after-wanderings, and I have enough of the old leaven left in me to like the sound of it still. Midwinter or Armadale, never mind my name now, we will talk of that afterward; you must know the worst of me first
Why not the best of you
In that friendless state, and at that tender age
did no thought cross your mind of going home again
Brown
Midwinter
Those books mark the next change in my life -- and the last, before I took the usher's place at the school. My term of imprisonment was not a long one. Perhaps my youth pleaded for me; perhaps the Bristol magistrates took into consideration the time I had passed in irons on board ship. Anyhow, I was just turned seventeen when I found myself out on the world again. I had no friends to receive me; I had no place to go to. A sailor's life, after what had happened, was a life I recoiled from in disgust. I stood in the crowd on the bridge at Bristol, wondering what I should do with my freedom now I had got it back. Whether I had altered in the prison, or whether I was feeling the change in character that comes with coming manhood, I don't know; but the old reckless enjoyment of the old vagabond life seemed quite worn out of my nature. An awful sense of loneliness kept me wandering about Bristol, in horror of the quiet country, till after nightfall. I looked at the lights kindling in the parlor windows, with a miserable envy of the happy people inside. A word of advice would have been worth something to me at that time. Well! I got it: a policeman advised me to move on. He was quite right; what else could I do? I looked up at the sky, and there was my old friend of many a night's watch at sea, the north star. 'All points of the compass are alike to me,' I thought to myself; 'I'll go _your_ way.' Not even the star would keep me company that night. It got behind a cloud, and left me alone in the rain and darkness. I groped my way to a cart-shed, fell asleep, and dreamed of old times, when I served my gypsy master and lived with the dogs. God! what I would have given when I woke to have felt Tommy's little cold muzzle in my hand! Why am I dwelling on these things? Why don't I get on to the end? You shouldn't encourage me, sir, by listening, so patiently. After a week more of wandering, without hope to help me, or prospects to look to, I found myself in the streets of Shrewsbury, staring in at the windows of a book-seller's shop. An old man came to the shop door, looked about him, and saw me. 'Do you want a job?' he asked. 'And are you not above doing it cheap?' The prospect of having something to do, and some human creature to speak a word to, tempted me, and I did a day's dirty work in the book-seller's warehouse for a shilling. More work followed at the same rate. In a week I was promoted to sweep out the shop and put up the shutters. In no very long time after, I was trusted to carry the books out; and when quarter-day came, and the shop-man left, I took his place. Wonderful luck! you will say; here I had found my way to a friend at last. I had found my way to one of the most merciless misers in England; and I had risen in the little world of Shrewsbury by the purely commercial process of underselling all my competitors. The job in the warehouse had been declined at the price by every idle man in the town, and I did it. The regular porter received his weekly pittance under weekly protest. I took two shillings less, and made no complaint. The shop-man gave warning on the ground that he was underfed as well as underpaid. I received half his salary, and lived contentedly on his reversionary scraps. Never were two men so well suited to each other as that book-seller and I. _His_ one object in life was to find somebody who would work for him at starvation wages. _My_ one object in life was to find somebody who would give me an asylum over my head. Without a single sympathy in common -- without a vestige of feeling of any sort, hostile or friendly, growing up between us on either side -- without wishing each other good-night when we parted on the house stairs, or good-morning when we met at the shop counter, we lived alone in that house, strangers from first to last, for two whole years. A dismal existence for a lad of my age, was it not? You are a clergyman and a scholar -- surely you can guess what made the life endurable to me
The books made it endurable to you
Yes
the books -- the generous friends who met me without suspicion -- the merciful masters who never used me ill! The only years of my life that I can look back on with something like pride are the years I passed in the miser's house. The only unalloyed pleasure I have ever tasted is the pleasure that I found for myself on the miser's shelves. Early and late, through the long winter nights and the quiet summer days, I drank at the fountain of knowledge, and never wearied of the draught. There were few customers to serve, for the books were mostly of the solid and scholarly kind. No responsibilities rested on me, for the accounts were kept by my master, and only the small sums of money were suffered to pass through my hands. He soon found out enough of me to know that my honesty was to be trusted, and that my patience might be counted on, treat me as he might. The one insight into _his_ character which I obtained, on my side, widened the distance between us to its last limits. He was a confirmed opium-eater in secret -- a prodigal in laudanum, though a miser in all besides. He never confessed his frailty, and I never told him I had found it out. He had his pleasure apart from me, and I had my pleasure apart from _him_. Week after week, month after month, there we sat, without a friendly word ever passing between us -- I, alone with my book at the counter; he, alone with his ledger in the parlor, dimly visible to me through the dirty window-pane of the glass door, sometimes poring over his figures, sometimes lost and motionless for hours in the ecstasy of his opium trance. Time passed, and made no impression on us; the seasons of two years came and went, and found us still unchanged. One morning, at the opening of the third year, my master did not appear, as usual, to give me my allowance for breakfast. I went upstairs, and found him helpless in his bed. He refused to trust me with the keys of the cupboard, or to let me send for a doctor. I bought a morsel of bread, and went back to my books, with no more feeling for _him_ (I honestly confess it) than he would have had for _me_ under the same circumstances. An hour or two later I was roused from my reading by an occasional customer of ours, a retired medical man. He went upstairs. I was glad to get rid of him and return to my books. He came down again, and disturbed me once more. 'I don't much like you, my lad,' he said; 'but I think it my duty to say that you will soon have to shift for yourself. You are no great favorite in the town, and you may have some difficulty in finding a new place. Provide yourself with a written character from your master before it is too late.' He spoke to me coldly. I thanked him coldly on my side, and got my character the same day. Do you think my master let me have it for nothing? Not he! He bargained with me on his deathbed. I was his creditor for a month's salary, and he wouldn't write a line of my testimonial until I had first promised to forgive him the debt. Three days afterward he died, enjoying to the last the happiness of having overreached his shop-man. 'Aha!' he whispered, when the doctor formally summoned me to take leave of him, 'I got you cheap!' Was Ozias Midwinter's stick as cruel as that? I think not. Well! there I was, out on the world again, but surely with better prospects this time. I had taught myself to read Latin, Greek, and German; and I had got my written character to speak for me. All useless! The doctor was quite right; I was not liked in the town. The lower order of the people despised me for selling my services to the miser at the miser's price. As for the better classes, I did with them (God knows how!) what I have always done with everybody except Mr. Armadale -- I produced a disagreeable impression at first sight; I couldn't mend it afterward; and there was an end of me in respectable quarters. It is quite likely I might have spent all my savings, my puny little golden offspring of two years' miserable growth, but for a school advertisement which I saw in a local paper. The heartlessly mean terms that were offered encouraged me to apply; and I got the place. How I prospered in it, and what became of me next, there is no need to tell you. The thread of my story is all wound off; my vagabond life stands stripped of its mystery; and you know the worst of me at last
My father's confession has told you who I am; and my own confession has told you what my life has been
I promised to make a clean breast of it when I first asked leave to enter this room. Have I kept my word
It is impossible to doubt it
You have established your claim on my confidence and my sympathy. I should be insensible, indeed, if I could know what I now know of your childhood and your youth, and not feel something of Allan's kindness for Allan's friend
Thank you, sir
In a few hours you will have left this place
If I can help you to leave it with your mind at ease, I will. There is more to be said between us than we have said up to this time. My future relations with Mr. Armadale are still left undecided; and the serious question raised by my father's letter is a question which we have neither of us faced yet
It may possibly help your decision
if I tell you how I determined to act toward Mr. Armadale -- in the matter of the similarity of our names -- when I first read this letter, and when I had composed myself sufficiently to be able to think at all
Will you excuse the odd fancy of an odd man
I want to put out the candle: I want to speak of the new subject, in the new light
I must once more ask your patience
if I return for a moment to myself and my circumstances. I have already told you that my stepfather made an attempt to discover me some years after I had turned my back on the Scotch school. He took that step out of no anxiety of his own, but simply as the agent of my father's trustees. In the exercise of their discretion, they had sold the estates in Barbadoes (at the time of the emancipation of the slaves, and the ruin of West Indian property) for what the estates would fetch. Having invested the proceeds, they were bound to set aside a sum for my yearly education. This responsibility obliged them to make the attempt to trace me -- a fruitless attempt, as you already know. A little later (as I have been since informed) I was publicly addressed by an advertisement in the newspapers, which I never saw. Later still, when I was twenty-one, a second advertisement appeared (which I did see) offering a reward for evidence of my death. If I was alive, I had a right to my half share of the proceeds of the estates on coming of age; if dead, the money reverted to my mother. I went to the lawyers, and heard from them what I have just told you. After some difficulty in proving my identity -- and after an interview with my stepfather, and a message from my mother, which has hopelessly widened the old breach between us -- my claim was allowed; and my money is now invested for me in the funds, under the name that is really my own
Twice a year
I must sign my own name to get my own income. At all other times, and under all other circumstances, I may hide my identity under any name I please. As Ozias Midwinter, Mr. Armadale first knew me; as Ozias Midwinter he shall know me to the end of my days. Whatever may be the result of this interview -- whether I win your confidence or whether I lose it -- of one thing you may feel sure: your pupil shall never know the horrible secret which I have trusted to your keeping. This is no extraordinary resolution; for, as you know already, it costs me no sacrifice of feeling to keep my assumed name. There is nothing in my conduct to praise; it comes naturally out of the gratitude of a thankful man. Review the circumstances for yourself, sir, and set my own horror of revealing them to Mr. Armadale out of the question. If the story of the names is ever told, there can be no limiting it to the disclosure of my father's crime; it must go back to the story of Mrs. Armadale's marriage. I have heard her son talk of her; I know how he loves her memory. As God is my witness, he shall never love it less dearly through _me_
In her name, and in her son's name
I thank you
I think I have said all that it was my duty to say
before we could approach the consideration of this letter. Whatever may have appeared strange in my conduct toward you and toward Mr. Armadale may be now trusted to explain itself. You can easily imagine the natural curiosity and surprise that I must have felt (ignorant as I then was of the truth) when the sound of Mr. Armadale's name first startled me as the echo of my own. You will readily understand that I only hesitated to tell him I was his namesake, because I hesitated to damage my position -- in your estimation, if not in his -- by confessing that I had come among you under an assumed name. And, after all that you have just heard of my vagabond life and my low associates, you will hardly wonder at the obstinate silence I maintained about myself, at a time when I did not feel the sense of responsibility which my father's confession has laid on me. We can return to these small personal explanations, if you wish it, at another time; they cannot be suffered to keep us from the greater interests which we must settle before you leave this place. We may come now
We may come now
to the murder on board the timber-ship, and to the warning that has followed me from my father's grave
Avoid the widow of the man I killed -- if the widow still lives. Avoid the maid whose wicked hand smoothed the way to the marriage -- if the maid is still in her service. And, more than all, avoid the man who bears the same name as your own. Offend your best benefactor, if that benefactor's influence has connected you one with the other. Desert the woman who loves you, if that woman is a link between you and him. Hide yourself from him under an assumed name. Put the mountains and the seas between you; be ungrateful; be unforgiving; be all that is most repellent to your own gentler nature, rather than live under the same roof and breathe the same air with that man. Never let the two Allan Armadales meet in this world; never, never, never
His look is lurking, his manner is bad; he is, every inch of him, his father's son
I have a question to ask you
Why have you just read that passage in your father's letter
To force me into telling you the truth
You must know how much there is of my father in me before you trust me to be Mr. Armadale's friend. I got my letter yesterday, in the morning. Some inner warning troubled me, and I went down on the sea-shore by myself before I broke the seal. Do you believe the dead can come back to the world they once lived in? I believe my father came back in that bright morning light, through the glare of that broad sunshine and the roar of that joyful sea, and watched me while I read. When I got to the words that you have just heard, and when I knew that the very end which he had died dreading was the end that had really come, I felt the horror that had crept over him in his last moments creeping over me. I struggled against myself, as _he_ would have had me struggle. I tried to be all that was most repellent to my own gentler nature; I tried to think pitilessly of putting the mountains and the seas between me and the man who bore my name. Hours passed before I could prevail on myself to go back and run the risk of meeting Allan Armadale in this house. When I did get back, and when he met me at night on the stairs, I thought I was looking him in the face as _my_ father looked _his_ father in the face when the cabin door closed between them. Draw your own conclusions, sir. Say, if you like, that the inheritance of my father's heathen belief in fate is one of the inheritances he has left to me. I won't dispute it; I won't deny that all through yesterday _his_ superstition was _my_ superstition. The night came before I could find my way to calmer and brighter thoughts. But I did find my way. You may set it down in my favor that I lifted myself at last above the influence of this horrible letter. Do you know what helped me
Did you reason with yourself
I can't reason about what I feel
Did you quiet your mind by prayer
I was not fit to pray
And yet something guided you to the better feeling and the truer view
Something did
What was it
My love for Allan Armadale
Have I no right to speak of him in that way
Have I not known him long enough; have I not done enough for him yet? Remember what my experience of other men had been when I first saw his hand held out to me -- when I first heard his voice speaking to me in my sick-room. What had I known of strangers' hands all through my childhood? I had only known them as hands raised to threaten and to strike me. His hand put my pillow straight, and patted me on the shoulder, and gave me my food and drink. What had I known of other men's voices, when I was growing up to be a man myself? I had only known them as voices that jeered, voices that cursed, voices that whispered in corners with a vile distrust. _His_ voice said to me, 'Cheer up, Midwinter! we'll soon bring you round again. You'll be strong enough in a week to go out for a drive with me in our Somersetshire lanes.' Think of the gypsy's stick; think of the devils laughing at me when I went by their windows with my little dead dog in my arms; think of the master who cheated me of my month's salary on his deathbed -- and ask your own heart if the miserable wretch whom Allan Armadale has treated as his equal and his friend has said too much in saying that he loves him? I do love him! It _will_ come out of me; I can't keep it back. I love the very ground he treads on! I would give my life -- yes, the life that is precious to me now, because his kindness has made it a happy one -- I tell you I would give my life
Give me a minute
I'll fight it down in a minute; I won't distress you in this way again
We will get back, sir, to those better thoughts which have brought me from my room to yours
I can only repeat that I should never have torn myself from the hold which this letter fastened on me, if I had not loved Allan Armadale with all that I have in me of a brother's love. I said to myself, 'If the thought of leaving him breaks my heart, the thought of leaving him is wrong!' That was some hours since, and I am in the same mind still. I can't believe -- I won't believe -- that a friendship which has grown out of nothing but kindness on one side, and nothing but gratitude on the other, is destined to lead to an evil end. Judge, you who are a clergyman, between the dead father, whose word is in these pages, and the living son, whose word is now on his lips! What is it appointed me to do, now that I am breathing the same air, and living under the same roof with the son of the man whom my father killed -- to perpetuate my father's crime by mortally injuring him, or to atone for my father's crime by giving him the devotion of my whole life? The last of those two faiths is my faith, and shall be my faith, happen what may. In the strength of that better conviction, I have come here to trust you with my father's secret, and to confess the wretched story of my own life. In the strength of that better conviction, I can face you resolutely with the one plain question, which marks the one plain end of all that I have come here to say. Your pupil stands at the starting-point of his new career, in a position singularly friendless; his one great need is a companion of his own age on whom he can rely. The time has come, sir, to decide whether I am to be that companion or not. After all you have heard of Ozias Midwinter, tell me plainly, will you trust him to be Allan Armadale's friend
I believe you love Allan
and I believe you have spoken the truth. A man who has produced that impression on me is a man whom I am bound to trust. I trust you
A light
Let us destroy the last link that holds us to the horrible past! Let us see this confession a heap of ashes before we part
Wait
Before you burn it, there is a reason for looking at it once more
I view your father's superstition as you view it
But there is a warning given you here, which you will do well (for Allan's sake and for your own sake) not to neglect. The last link with the past will not be destroyed when you have burned these pages. One of the actors in this story of treachery and murder is not dead yet. Read those words
Avoid the widow of the man I killed, if the widow still lives
Not that sentence
The next
Avoid the maid whose wicked hand smoothed the way to the marriage, if the maid is still in her service
The maid and the mistress parted
at the time of the mistress's marriage. The maid and the mistress met again at Mrs. Armadale's residence in Somersetshire last year. I myself met the woman in the village, and I myself know that her visit hastened Mrs. Armadale's death. Wait a little, and compose yourself; I see I have startled you
Can you put me on my guard against her
Can you tell me her name
I can only tell you what Mrs. Armadale told me
The woman acknowledged having been married in the long interval since she and her mistress had last met. But not a word more escaped her about her past life. She came to Mrs. Armadale to ask for money, under a plea of distress. She got the money, and she left the house, positively refusing, when the question was put to her, to mention her married name
You saw her yourself in the village. What was she like
She kept her veil down. I can't tell you
You can tell me what you _did_ see
Certainly. I saw, as she approached me, that she moved very gracefully, that she had a beautiful figure, and that she was a little over the middle height. I noticed, when she asked me the way to Mrs. Armadale's house, that her manner was the manner of a lady, and that the tone of her voice was remarkably soft and winning. Lastly, I remembered afterward that she wore a thick black veil, a black bonnet, a black silk dress, and a red Paisley shawl. I feel all the importance of your possessing some better means of identifying her than I can give you. But unhappily
Is it possible that you know the woman
No
What have I said, then, that has startled you so
Do you remember the woman who threw herself from the river steamer
the woman who caused that succession of deaths which opened Allan Armadale's way to the Thorpe Ambrose estate
I remember the description of her in the police report
_That_ woman
moved gracefully, and had a beautiful figure. _That_ woman wore a black veil, a black bonnet, a black silk gown, and a red Paisley shawl
Can it be the same
_Is_ there a fatality that follows men in the dark? And is it following _us_ in that woman's footsteps
My young friend
have you cleared your mind of all superstition as completely as you think? Is what you have just said worthy of the better resolution at which you arrived last night
You are beginning to doubt my sincerity
I can't blame you
I believe in your sincerity as firmly as ever
I only doubt whether you have fortified the weak places in your nature as strongly as you yourself suppose. Many a man has lost the battle against himself far oftener than you have lost it yet, and has nevertheless won his victory in the end. I don't blame you, I don't distrust you. I only notice what has happened, to put you on your guard against yourself. Come! come! Let your own better sense help you; and you will agree with me that there is really no evidence to justify the suspicion that the woman whom I met in Somersetshire, and the woman who attempted suicide in London, are one and the same. Need an old man like me remind a young man like you that there are thousands of women in England with beautiful figures -- thousands of women who are quietly dressed in black silk gowns and red Paisley shawls
You are quite right, sir
and I am quite wrong. Tens of thousands of women answer the description, as you say. I have been wasting time on my own idle fancies, when I ought to have been carefully gathering up facts. If this woman ever attempts to find her way to Allan, I must be prepared to stop her
this helps me to a knowledge of her age. She was twelve at the time of Mrs. Armadale's marriage; add a year, and bring her to thirteen; add Allan's age (twenty-two), and we make her a woman of five-and-thirty at the present time. I know her age; and I know that she has her own reasons for being silent about her married life. This is something gained at the outset, and it may lead, in time, to something more
Am I in the right way now, sir? Am I doing my best to profit by the caution which you have kindly given me
You are vindicating your own better sense
You are paving the way for your own happier life
Am I
The ship
What ship
The ship in which the deed was done
The ship in which my father's murderous hand turned the lock of the cabin door
What of it
A French vessel, employed in the timber trade
a French vessel, named _La Grace de Dieu_. If my father's belief had been the right belief -- if the fatality had been following me, step by step, from my father's grave, in one or other of my voyages, I should have fallen in with that ship
I am quite sure about it now
Those women are two, and not one
I am glad you have come to that conclusion
But I wish you had reached it in some other way
For God's sake let me burn it
As long as there is a page left, I shall read it. And, as long as I read it, my father gets the better of me, in spite of myself
I may say, like Macbeth: 'Why, so, being gone, I am a man again
You look fatigued, sir; and no wonder
I have kept you too long from your rest -- I will keep you no longer. Depend on my remembering what you have told me; depend on my standing between Allan and any enemy, man or woman, who comes near him. Thank you, Mr. Brock; a thousand thousand times, thank you! I came into this room the most wretched of living men; I can leave it now as happy as the birds that are singing outside
Look
The promise of the Future shining over the ashes of the Past
Poor fellow
Here's a mess
Do you know, my dear fellow, I begin to wish I had let well alone
You don't seem to set much value on this
What is it
It belonged to my mother
and I set the greatest value on it. It is a portrait of my father
You know best where the things ought to be put in your own dressing-case
I'll make the place tidy on this side of the cabin, and you shall make the place tidy on the other
Did you know that you had put this here
Is the letter of any importance
more worries from those everlasting lawyers
This is what comes of being particularly careful
here is an instance of my extreme thoughtfulness. You may not think it but I put the letter there on purpose. Every time I went to the jar, you know, I was sure to see the letter; and every time I saw the letter, I was sure to say to myself, 'This must be answered.' There's nothing to laugh at; it was a perfectly sensible arrangement, if I could only have remembered where I put the jar. Suppose I tie a knot in my pocket-handkerchief this time? You have a wonderful memory, my dear fellow. Perhaps you'll remind me in the course of the day, in case I forget the knot next
Here is your writing-case
why not answer the letter at once? If you put it away again, you may forget it again
Very true
But the worst of it is, I can't quite make up my mind what answer to write. I want a word of advice. Come and sit down here, and I'll tell you all about it
I'll tell you who, and I'll tell you why, when we get to Thorpe Ambrose
In the meantime we'll call the steward X. Y. Z., and we'll say he lives with me, because I'm devilish sharp, and I mean to keep him under my own eye. You needn't look surprised. I know the man thoroughly well; he requires a good deal of management. If I offered him the steward's place beforehand, his modesty would get in his way, and he would say 'No.' If I pitch him into it neck and crop, without a word of warning and with nobody at hand to relieve him of the situation, he'll have nothing for it but to consult my interests, and say 'Yes.' X. Y. Z. is not at all a bad fellow, I can tell you. You'll see him when we go to Thorpe Ambrose; and I rather think you and he will get on uncommonly well together
Is there no steward now on the estate
Is the business neglected all this time
Nothing of the sort
The business is going with 'a wet sheet and a flowing sea, and a wind that follows free.' I'm not joking; I'm only metaphorical. A regular accountant has poked his nose into the books, and a steady-going lawyer's clerk attends at the office once a week. That doesn't look like neglect, does it? Leave the new steward alone for the present, and just tell me which of those two tenants you would take, if you were in my place
Well, which profession shall I favor
The army or the law
There seems to me to be no doubt about it
The lawyer has been already in correspondence with you; and the lawyer's claim is, therefore, the claim to be preferred
I knew you would say that. In all the thousands of times I have asked other people for advice, I never yet got the advice I wanted. Here's this business of letting the cottage as an instance. I'm all on the other side myself. I want to have the major
Why
a young lady
A bachelor of studious habits walking about my grounds
is not an interesting object; a young lady is. I have not the least doubt Miss Milroy is a charming girl. Ozias Midwinter of the serious countenance! think of her pretty muslin dress flitting about among your trees and committing trespasses on your property; think of her adorable feet trotting into your fruit-garden, and her delicious fresh lips kissing your ripe peaches; think of her dimpled hands among your early violets, and her little cream-colored nose buried in your blush-roses. What does the studious bachelor offer me in exchange for the loss of all this? He offers me a rheumatic brown object in gaiters and a wig. No! no! Justice is good, my dear friend; but, believe me, Miss Milroy is better
Can you be serious about any mortal thing, Allan
I'll try to be, if you like. I know I ought to take the lawyer; but what can I do if the major's daughter keeps running in my head
I've got an entirely new idea
Let's leave it to chance
I'll spin
and you shall call. We must give precedence to the army, of course; so we'll say Heads, the major; Tails, the lawyer. One spin to decide. Now, then, look out
Tails
You don't mean to say you are really in earnest
Oh, but I am, though
Chance is on my side, and Miss Milroy's; and you're outvoted, two to one. It's no use arguing. The major has fallen uppermost, and the major shall have the cottage. I won't leave it to the lawyers; they'll only be worrying me with more letters. I'll write myself
Dear sir, I accept Major Milroy's offer; let him come in when he pleases. Yours truly, Allan Armadale
Dear sir, I regret that circumstances prevent me from accepting your proposal. Yours truly
People make a fuss about letter-writing
_I_ find it easy enough
What on earth are you doing
I was only wondering
What about
I was wondering
whether there is such a thing as chance
Give us a penny
College of King William
Hang me if I can look any longer at the boys and the tarts
Let's try if we can't find something else to amuse us in the next street
The Hand of Death
A case of nervous antipathy
I heard your voice in the passage
Whom were you talking to
The doctor
I am going to smoke a cigar with him, in an hour's time. Will you come too
What shall we do till it's time to go
Anything in this
I'm too tired to look. If you find anything interesting, read it out
I am sorry to disturb you
Don't be alarmed; there's nothing wrong
Where is my friend
At the pier head
I am, to a certain extent, responsible for what he is doing now; and I think some careful person, like yourself, ought to be with him
Yo-heave-ho
Come along, old boy
You're just in time for a frolic by moonlight
Bed
Hear him, doctor! one would think he was ninety! Bed, you drowsy old dormouse! Look at that, and think of bed if you can
How is the tide
Are there oars in the boat
Yes
I am well used to the sea
You may trust me to take care of my friend, and to take care of the boat
Good-night, doctor
Your whisky-and-water is delicious -- your boat's a little beauty -- and you're the best fellow I ever met in my life
We have gone far enough
Stand by the sheet
Stop
Good God! here's a wrecked ship right ahead of us
I know the vessel
I heard my workmen talking of her yesterday. She drifted in here, on a pitch-dark night, when they couldn't see the lights; a poor old worn-out merchantman, Midwinter, that the ship-brokers have bought to break up. Let's run in and have a look at her
This is an ugly place to take a boat into when you know nothing about it
Nonsense
It's as light as day, and we float in two feet of water
Lower the sail
and ship the oars. We are running down on her fast enough now, whether we like it or not
Make that fast
and wait till I see if it's all safe on board
Wait
What on earth does he mean? I'll be hanged if I wait. Where one of us goes, the other goes too
Anything very dreadful on board
Nothing whatever
But I couldn't be sure that we were to have the whole ship to ourselves till I got over the bulwark and looked about me
Not much of a vessel
the Frenchmen generally build better ships than this
Frenchmen
Is this vessel French
Yes
How do you know
The men I have got at work on the yacht told me. They know all about her
Did they mention what trade she was engaged in
Yes; the timber trade
Did they tell you her name
They did, I think. But it has slipped my memory.-- Gently, old fellow; these long claws of yours are rather tight on my shoulder
Was the name
Was the name _La Grace de Dieu_
How the deuce did you come to know it? That's the name, sure enough. _La Grace de Dieu_
The boat
All my fault
but there's no help for it now. Here we are, hard and fast in a trap of our own setting; and there goes the last of the doctor's boat! Come out of the dark, Midwinter; I can't half see you there, and I want to know what's to be done next
One thing is pretty certain
With the current on that side, and the sunken rocks on this, we can't find our way out of the scrape by swimming, at any rate. So much for the prospect at this end of the wreck. Let's try how things look at the other. Rouse up, messmate
Come and see what the old tub of a timber-ship has got to show us astern
Come along
Not yet
I shall see him astern, with his hand on the lock of the cabin door
Come up here, and see if there's a fisherman within hail of us
What is there to look at there
Let's see if it's locked
Am I to consider myself in custody
Why in the name of wonder do you keep staring at the cabin door? Any suspicious noises below? It's no use disturbing the rats -- if that's what you mean -- we haven't got a dog with us. Men? Living men they can't be; for they would have heard us and come on deck. Dead men? Quite impossible! No ship's crew could be drowned in a land-locked place like this, unless the vessel broke up under them -- and here's the vessel as steady as a church to speak for herself. Man alive, how your hand trembles! What is there to scare you in that rotten old cabin? What are you shaking and shivering about? Any company of the supernatural sort on board? Mercy preserve us! (as the old women say) do you see a ghost
_I see two_
Two
The ghost of a man like you, drowning in the cabin! And the ghost of a man like me, turning the lock of the door on him
Turning the lock of the door, is he
That's a devilish unhandsome action, Master Midwinter, on the part of your ghost. The least I can do, after that, is to let mine out of the cabin, and give him the run of the ship
Below there
Ghost of Allan Armadale, come on deck
Pah
The air is foul already; and the cabin is full of water
What am I to do
Not a drop of water near, but the foul water in the cabin
God bless the doctor for giving me this before we sailed
Have I been dreaming
No dream
Oh me, no dream
You have been overtired all day
and this infernal adventure of ours has upset you. Take some more whisky, it's sure to do you good. Can you sit by yourself, if I put you against the bulwark, so
Why by myself? Why do you leave me
You are not well enough to rough it here till the workmen come off in the morning
We must find our way on shore at once, if we can. I am going up to get a good view all round, and see if there's a house within hail of us
Don't go near it
Don't try to open it, for God's sake
No, no
When I come down from the rigging, I'll come back here
You're not angry with me
All this is my fault, I know; and I was a brute and a fool to laugh at you, when I ought to have seen you were ill. I am so sorry, Midwinter. Don't be angry with me
Angry
Angry with _ you_?-- Oh, my poor boy, were you to blame for being kind to me when I was ill in the old west-country inn? And was I to blame for feeling your kindness thankfully? Was it our fault that we never doubted each other, and never knew that we were traveling together blindfold on the way that was to lead us here? The cruel time is coming, Allan, when we shall rue the day we ever met. Shake hands, brother, on the edge of the precipice -- shake hands while we are brothers still
Don't forget the whisky
I think I see one house
Here-away, on the mainland to the right
It looks like a stone house and inclosure
I'll hail it, on the chance
It's so awfully quiet
I'm half afraid to call out
I shan't startle you, Midwinter, shall I
It won't do to have come up here for nothing
On shore there
Ahoy-hoy-hoy
He is impatient to get away
I'll try again
Once more
I have roused somebody at last
Look out for the answering, hail
We must wait till the ship-breakers come off to their work
After what has happened, I don't mind confessing that I've had enough of hailing the land. Only think of there being a madman in that house ashore, and of my waking him! Horrible, wasn't it
Nothing is horrible _out_ of this ship
Everything is horrible _in_ it
Here's one thing on board that isn't horrible
and here's another
Three o'clock
Daybreak isn't far off; we shall have the piping of the birds to cheer us up before long. I say, Midwinter, you seem to have quite got over that unlucky fainting fit. How you do keep walking! Come here and have a cigar, and make yourself comfortable. What's the good of tramping backward and forward in that restless way
I am waiting
Waiting! What for
For what is to happen to you or to me -- or to both of us -- before we are out of this ship
With submission to your superior judgment, my dear fellow, I think quite enough has happened already. The adventure will do very well as it stands now; more of it is more than I want
I've not got your fine imagination, old boy; and I hope the next thing that happens will be the appearance of the workmen's boat. I suspect that queer fancy of yours has been running away with you while you were down here all by yourself. Come, now, what were you thinking of while I was up in the mizzen-top frightening the cows
Suppose I tell you
Suppose you do
Rouse him
from that ignorant self-possession and that pitiless repose. Show him the place where the deed was done; let him know it with your knowledge, and fear it with your dread. Tell him of the letter you burned, and of the words no fire can destroy which are living in your memory now. Let him see your mind as it was yesterday, when it roused your sinking faith in your own convictions, to look back on your life at sea, and to cherish the comforting remembrance that, in all your voyages, you had never fallen in with this ship. Let him see your mind as it is now, when the ship has got you at the turning-point of your new life, at the outset of your friendship with the one man of all men whom your father warned you to avoid. Think of those death-bed words, and whisper them in his ear, that he may think of them, too: 'Hide yourself from him under an assumed name. Put the mountains and the seas between you; be ungrateful, be unforgiving; be all that is most repellent to your own gentler nature, rather than live under the same roof and breathe the same air with that man
Thinking again
Yes
thinking of the past and the future
The past and the future
For my part, I'm dumb about the past. It's a sore subject with me: the past means the loss of the doctor's boat. Let's talk about the future. Have you been taking a practical view? as dear old Brock calls it. Have you been considering the next serious question that concerns us both when we get back to the hotel -- the question of breakfast
I have been thinking of your future and mine
I have been thinking of the time when your way in life and my way in life will be two ways instead of one
Here's the daybreak
Look up at the masts; they're beginning to get clear again already. I beg your pardon. What were you saying
Oh, my father
better have killed me on that day when I lay on your bosom, than have let me live for this
What's that about the future
I was looking for the daylight; I didn't hear
You have treated me with your usual kindness
in planning to take me with you to Thorpe Ambrose. I think, on reflection, I had better not intrude myself where I am not known and not expected
Has he been turning it over in his mind
and is he beginning at last to suspect the truth? I'll try him.-- Talk as much nonsense, my dear fellow, as you like
but don't forget that you are engaged to see me established at Thorpe Ambrose, and to give me your opinion of the new steward
I am not talking about your steward or your estate
I am talking about myself. Do you hear? Myself! I am not a fit companion for you. You don't know who I am
O God! I can't tell him
Not know who you are
I say
how much of the doctor's medicine did you take while I was up in the mizzen-top
Listen to me
You don't know half the low things I have done in my lifetime. I have been a tradesman's drudge; I have swept out the shop and put up the shutters; I have carried parcels through the street, and waited for my master's money at his customers' doors
I have never done anything half as useful
Dear old boy, what an industrious fellow you have been in your time
I've been a vagabond and a blackguard in my time
I've been a street tumbler, a tramp, a gypsy's boy! I've sung for half-pence with dancing dogs on the high-road! I've worn a foot-boy's livery, and waited at table! I've been a common sailors' cook, and a starving fisherman's Jack-of-all-trades! What has a gentleman in your position in common with a man in mine? Can you take _me_ into the society at Thorpe Ambrose? Why, my very name would be a reproach to you. Fancy the faces of your new neighbors when their footmen announce Ozias Midwinter and Allan Armadale in the same breath
A joke's a joke, Midwinter
as long as you don't carry it too far. I remember your saying something of the same sort to me once before when I was nursing you in Somersetshire. You forced me to ask you if I deserved to be kept at arms-length by _you_ of all the people in the world. Don't force me to say so again. Make as much fun of me as you please, old fellow, in any other way. _That_ way hurts me
Why distress him
We are not the end here: there is the Woman behind us in the dark. Why resist him when the mischief's done, and the caution comes too late? What _is_ to be _will_ be. What have I to do with the future? and what has he
Forgive me
I have hurt you for the last time
Come
you have been trying the doctor's medicine, why shouldn't I
This is something like a change for the better
Midwinter is himself again. Hark! there are the birds. Hail, smiling morn! smiling morn
How did you manage to clear your head of those confounded megrims? Do you know you were quite alarming about something happening to one or other of us before we were out of this ship
Sheer nonsense
I don't think my head has ever been quite right since that fever; I've got a bee in my bonnet, as they say in the North. Let's talk of something else. About those people you have let the cottage to? I wonder whether the agent's account of Major Milroy's family is to be depended on? There might be another lady in the household besides his wife and his daughter
Oho
_you're_ beginning to think of nymphs among the trees, and flirtations in the fruit-garden, are you? Another lady, eh? Suppose the major's family circle won't supply another? We shall have to spin that half-crown again, and toss up for which is to have the first chance with Miss Milroy
No, no
the major's landlord has the first claim to the notice of the major's daughter. I'll retire into the background, and wait for the next lady who makes her appearance at Thorpe Ambrose
Very good. I'll have an address to the women of Norfolk posted in the park to that effect
Are you particular to a shade about size or complexion? What's your favorite age
Five-and-thirty
It has come
Not to _me_ -- but to _him_
You have been dreaming
Are we here still
Whatever else I do on board this infernal ship
I won't go to sleep again
Tell me your dream
I can't tell it yet
Wait a little till I'm my own man again
Look at me for a moment, Allan
Do I look a little upset
Don't make yourself nervous about me if I do. My head feels wild and giddy, but I shall soon get over it
Is your head more composed
Can you tell me your dream now
Thank God you're both above water
Of all the winds of heaven, which wind blew you here
I wouldn't change nervous systems with that man for the largest fortune that could be offered me
Are you better
Shall you soon be composed enough to tell me what I want to know
I suppose I shall have no peace till I tell you
so I may as well get it over at once
No
Not where other people can hear it -- not till you and I are alone
If you wish to see the last, gentlemen, of your quarters for the night
now is your time! The coast will shut the vessel out in a minute more
Can you sleep after what has happened
You were coming to my room, were you not
What for
To ask you to keep me company. What were you coming to _my_ room for
To ask you to tell me your dream
Damn the dream! I want to forget all about it
And _I_ want to know all about it
You are the most obstinate fellow alive
but if you will know all about it, you must know all about it, I suppose. Come into my room, and I'll tell you
I am afraid you have not recovered the fatigues of the night
It's not the night, doctor, that has damped his spirits
It's something I have been telling him. It is not my fault, mind. If I had only known beforehand that he believed in dreams, I wouldn't have opened my lips
Dreams
With your constitution, you ought to be well used to dreaming by this time
This way, doctor; you have taken the wrong turning
I'm the dreamer, not he. Don't look astonished; it wasn't in this comfortable house; it was on board that confounded timber-ship. The fact is, I fell asleep just before you took us off the wreck; and it's not to be denied that I had a very ugly dream. Well, when we got back here
Why do you trouble Mr. Hawbury about a matter that cannot possibly interest him
I beg your pardon
so far as I have heard, the matter does interest me
That's right, doctor
Be interested, I beg and pray; I want you to clear his head of the nonsense he has got in it now. What do you think? He will have it that my dream is a warning to me to avoid certain people; and he actually persists in saying that one of those people is -- himself! Did you ever hear the like of it? I took great pains; I explained the whole thing to him. I said, warning be hanged; it's all indigestion! You don't know what I ate and drank at the doctor's supper-table; I do. Do you think he would listen to me? Not he. You try him next; you're a professional man, and he must listen to you. Be a good fellow, doctor, and give me a certificate of indigestion; I'll show you my tongue with pleasure
The sight of your face is quite enough
I certify, on the spot, that you never had such a thing as an indigestion in your life. Let's hear about the dream, and see what we can make of it, if you have no objection, that is to say
Apply to my friend, there
he has got a much better account of it than I can give you. If you'll believe me, he took it all down in writing from my own lips; and he made me sign it at the end, as if it was my 'last dying speech and confession' before I went to the gallows. Out with it, old boy -- I saw you put it in your pocket-book -- out with it
Are you really in earnest
Pray don't show it to me, if you feel the least unwillingness
Stuff and nonsense
Throw it over here
I beg your pardon
A secret, sullen fellow
his friend is worth ten thousand of him
Read that, doctor
It's not told in my roundabout way; but there's nothing added to it, and nothing taken away. It's exactly what I dreamed, and exactly what I should have written myself, if I had thought the thing worth putting down on paper, and if I had had the knack of writing -- which
I haven't, except it's letters; and I rattle _them_ off in no time
ALLAN ARMADALE'S DREAM. "Early on the morning of June the first, eighteen hundred and fifty-one, I found myself (through circumstances which it is not important to mention in this place) left alone with a friend of mine -- a young man about my own age -- on board the French timber-ship named _La Grace de Dieu_, which ship then lay wrecked in the channel of the Sound between the main-land of the Isle of Man and the islet called the Calf. Having not been in bed the previous night, and feeling overcome by fatigue, I fell asleep on the deck of the vessel. I was in my usual good health at the time, and the morning was far enough advanced for the sun to have risen. Under these circumstances, and at that period of the day, I passed from sleeping to dreaming. As clearly as I can recollect it, after the lapse of a few hours, this was the succession of events presented to me by the dream: 

"1. The first event of which I was conscious was the appearance of my father. He took me silently by the hand; and we found ourselves in the cabin of a ship. 

"2. Water rose slowly over us in the cabin; and I and my father sank through the water together. 

"3. An interval of oblivion followed; and then the sense came to me of being left alone in the darkness. 

"4. I waited. 

"5. The darkness opened, and showed me the vision -- as in a picture -- of a broad, lonely pool, surrounded by open ground. Above the farther margin of the pool I saw the cloudless western sky, red with the light of sunset. 

"6. On the near margin of the pool there stood the Shadow of a Woman. 

"7. It was the shadow only. No indication was visible to me by which I could identify it, or compare it with any living creature. The long robe showed me that it was the shadow of a woman, and showed me nothing more. 

"8. The darkness closed again -- remained with me for an interval -- and opened for the second time. 

"9. I found myself in a room, standing before. a long window. The only object of furniture or of ornament that I saw (or that I can now remember having seen) was a little statue placed near me. The window opened on a lawn and flower-garden; and the rain was pattering heavily against the glass. 

"10. I was not alone in the room. Standing opposite to me at the window was the Shadow of a Man. 

"11. I saw no more of it; I knew no more of it than I saw and knew of the shadow of the woman. But the shadow of the man moved. It stretched out its arm toward the statue; and the statue fell in fragments on the floor. 

"12. With a confused sensation in me, which was partly anger and partly distress, I stooped to look at the fragments. When I rose again, the Shadow had vanished, and I saw no more. 

"13. The darkness opened for the third time, and showed me the Shadow of the Woman and the Shadow of the Man together. 

"14. No surrounding scene (or none that I can now call to mind) was visible to me. 

"15. The Man-Shadow was the nearest; the Woman-Shadow stood back. From where she stood, there came a sound as of the pouring of a liquid softly. I saw her touch the shadow of the man with one hand, and with the other give him a glass. He took the glass, and gave it to me. In the moment when I put it to my lips, a deadly faintness mastered me from head to foot. When I came to my senses again, the Shadows had vanished, and the third vision was at an end. 

"16. The darkness closed over me again; and the interval of oblivion followed. 

"17. I was conscious of nothing more, till I felt the morning sun shine on my face, and heard my friend tell me that I had awakened from a dream
Many men, many opinions
I don't agree with either of you about this dream. Your theory
we have disposed of already: the supper that _you_ can't digest is a supper which has yet to be discovered. My theory we will come to presently; your friend's theory claims attention first
If I understand rightly
you believe that this dream is a warning! supernaturally addressed to Mr. Armadale, of dangerous events that are threatening him, and of dangerous people connected with those events whom he would do wisely to avoid. May I inquire whether you have arrived at this conclusion as an habitual believer in dreams, or as having reasons of your own for attaching especial importance to this one dream in particular
You have stated what my conviction is quite accurately
Excuse me if I ask you to be satisfied with that admission, and to let me keep my reasons to myself
That's exactly what he said to me
I don't believe he has got any reasons at all
Gently! gently
We can discuss the subject without intruding ourselves into anybody's secrets. Let us come to my own method of dealing with the dream next. Mr. Midwinter will probably not be surprised to hear that I look at this matter from an essentially practical point of view
I shall not be at all surprised
The view of a medical man, when he has a problem in humanity to solve, seldom ranges beyond the point of his dissecting-knife
Our limits are not quite so narrow as that
but I willingly grant you that there are some articles of your faith in which we doctors don't believe. For example, we don't believe that a reasonable man is justified in attaching a supernatural interpretation to any phenomenon which comes within the range of his senses, until he has certainly ascertained that there is no such thing as a natural explanation of it to be found in the first instance
Come; that's fair enough, I'm sure
He hit you hard with the 'dissecting-knife,' doctor; and now you have hit him back again with your 'natural explanation.' Let's have it
By all means
Here it is. There is nothing at all extraordinary in my theory of dreams: it is the theory accepted by the great mass of my profession. A dream is the reproduction, in the sleeping state of the brain, of images and impressions produced on it in the waking state; and this reproduction is more or less involved, imperfect, or contradictory, as the action of certain faculties in the dreamer is controlled more or less completely by the influence of sleep. Without inquiring further into this latter part of the subject -- a very curious and interesting part of it -- let us take the theory, roughly and generally, as I have just stated it, and apply it at once to the dream now under consideration
I see one event already in this dream
which I know to be the reproduction of a waking impression produced on Mr. Armadale in my own presence. If he will only help me by exerting his memory, I don't despair of tracing back the whole succession of events set down here to something that he has said or thought, or seen or done, in the four-and-twenty hours, or less, which preceded his falling asleep on the deck of the timber-ship
I'll exert my memory with the greatest pleasure
Where shall we start from
Start by telling me what you did yesterday, before I met you and your friend on the road to this place
We will say, you got up and had your breakfast. What next
We took a carriage next
and drove from Castletown to Douglas to see my old friend, Mr. Brock, off by the steamer to Liverpool. We came back to Castletown and separated at the hotel door. Midwinter went into the house, and I went on to my yacht in the harbor. By-the-bye, doctor, remember you have promised to go cruising with us before we leave the Isle of Man
Many thanks; but suppose we keep to the matter in hand. What next
What did you do on board the yacht
Oh, I know! I put the cabin to rights -- thoroughly to rights. I give you my word of honor, I turned every blessed thing topsy-turvy. And my friend there came off in a shore-boat and helped me. Talking of boats, I have never asked you yet whether your boat came to any harm last night. If there's any damage done, I insist on being allowed to repair it
I doubt if we shall be able to reach our object conveniently in this way
It will be better to take the events of the dream in their regular order, and to ask the questions that naturally suggest themselves as we go on. Here are the first two events to begin with. You dream that your father appears to you -- that you and he find yourselves in the cabin of a ship -- that the water rises over you, and that you sink in it together. Were you down in the cabin of the wreck, may I ask
I couldn't be down there
as the cabin was full of water. I looked in and saw it, and shut the door again
Very good
Here are the waking impressions clear enough, so far. You have had the cabin in your mind; and you have had the water in your mind; and the sound of the channel current (as I well know without asking) was the last sound in your ears when you went to sleep. The idea of drowning comes too naturally out of such impressions as these to need dwelling on. Is there anything else before we go on? Yes; there is one more circumstance left to account for
The most important circumstance of all
You mean the appearance of Mr. Armadale's father? I was just coming to that
Is your father alive
My father died before I was born
This complicates it a little
How did you know that the figure appearing to you in the dream was the figure of your father
Was your father in your thoughts before you went to sleep
Was there any description of him -- any portrait of him at home -- in your mind
Of course there was
Midwinter! you remember the miniature you found on the floor of the cabin when we were putting the yacht to rights? You said I didn't seem to value it; and I told you I did, because it was a portrait of my father
And was the face in the dream like the face in the miniature
Exactly like! I say, doctor, this is beginning to get interesting
What do you say now
I say what my friend says
this is beginning to get interesting. Go on; pray go on
You are the only mystic I have met with
who is willing to give fair evidence fair play. I don't despair of converting you before our inquiry comes to an end. Let us get on to the next set of events
The interval of oblivion which is described as succeeding the first of the appearances in the dream may be easily disposed of. It means, in plain English, the momentary cessation of the brain's intellectual action, while a deeper wave of sleep flows over it, just as the sense of being alone in the darkness, which follows, indicates the renewal of that action, previous to the reproduction of another set of impressions. Let us see what they are. A lonely pool, surrounded by an open country; a sunset sky on the further side of the pool; and the shadow of a woman on the near side. Very good; now for it, Mr. Armadale! How did that pool get into your head? The open country you saw on your way from Castletown to this place But we have no pools or lakes hereabouts; and you can have seen none recently elsewhere, for you came here after a cruise at sea. Must we fall back on a picture, or a book, or a conversation with your friend
I don't remember talking about pools or lakes
Do you
Have you got the last number of the Manx newspaper
Travels in Australia
Don't put away the paper
Before we are at the end of the inquiry, it is quite possible we may want that extract again. We have got at the pool. How about the sunset? Nothing of that sort is referred to in the newspaper extract. Search your memory again, Mr. Armadale; we want your waking impression of a sunset, if you please
I think I can trace our way back to this impression, as I traced our way back to the other
After we got here yesterday afternoon, my friend and I took a long walk over the hills
That's it
I remember. The sun was setting as we came back to the hotel for supper, and it was such a splendid red sky, we both stopped to look at it. And then we talked about Mr. Brock, and wondered how far he had got on his journey home. My memory may be a slow one at starting, doctor; but when it's once set going, stop it if you can! I haven't half done yet
Wait one minute, in mercy to Mr. Midwinter's memory and mine
We have traced back to your waking impressions the vision of the open country, the pool, and the sunset. But the Shadow of the Woman has not been accounted for yet. Can you find us the original of this mysterious figure in the dream landscape
Patience
Let us leave the figure by the pool for the present and try if we can't pick her up again as we go on. Allow me to observe, Mr. Midwinter, that it is not very easy to identify a shadow; but we won't despair. This impalpable lady of the lake may take some consistency when we next meet with her
What is the next scene in the dream
Mr. Armadale finds himself in a room. He is standing before a long window opening on a lawn and flower-garden, and the rain is pattering against the glass. The only thing he sees in the room is a little statue; and the only company he has is the Shadow of a Man standing opposite to him. The Shadow stretches out its arm, and the statue falls in fragments on the floor; and the dreamer, in anger and distress at the catastrophe (observe, gentlemen, that here the sleeper's reasoning faculty wakes up a little, and the dream passes rationally, for a moment, from cause to effect), stoops to look at the broken pieces. When he looks up again, the scene has vanished. That is to say, in the ebb and flow of sleep, it is the turn of the flow now, and the brain rests a little. What's the matter, Mr. Armadale? Has that restive memory of yours run away with you again
Yes
I'm off at full gallop. I've run the broken statue to earth; it's nothing more nor less than a china shepherdess I knocked off the mantel-piece in the hotel coffee-room, when I rang the bell for supper last night. I say, how well we get on; don't we? It's like guessing a riddle. Now, then, Midwinter! your turn next
No
My turn, if you please. I claim the long window, the garden, and the lawn, as my property. You will find the long window, Mr. Armadale, in the next room. If you look out, you'll see the garden and lawn in front of it; and, if you'll exert that wonderful memory of yours, you will recollect that you were good enough to take special and complimentary notice of my smart French window and my neat garden, when I drove you and your friend to Port St. Mary yesterday
Quite right
so I did. But what about the rain that fell in the dream? I haven't seen a drop of rain for the last week
If we can think of nothing else
let us try if we can't find the idea of the rain where we found the idea of the pool
I have got it
Here is rain described as having fallen on these thirsty Australian travelers, before they discovered the pool. Behold the shower, Mr. Armadale, which got into your mind when you read the extract to your friend last night! And behold the dream, Mr. Midwinter, mixing up separate waking impressions just as usual
Can you find the waking impression which accounts for the human figure at the window
or are we to pass over the Shadow of the Man as we have passed over the Shadow of the Woman already
When you are picking up shells on the beach, Mr. Midwinter, you usually begin with the shells that lie nearest at hand
We are picking up facts now; and those that are easiest to get at are the facts we will take first. Let the Shadow of the Man and the Shadow of the Woman pair off together for the present; we won't lose sight of them, I promise you. All in good time, my dear sir; all in good time
Go on, doctor
my wonderful memory is as fresh as ever
Is it
Do you remember what happened when you and I were gossiping with the landlady at the bar of the hotel last night
Of course I do! You were kind enough to hand me a glass of brandy-and-water, which the landlady had just mixed for your own drinking. And I was obliged to refuse it because, as I told you, the taste of brandy always turns me sick and faint, mix it how you please
Exactly so
And here is the incident reproduced in the dream. You see the man's shadow and the woman's shadow together this time. You hear the pouring out of liquid (brandy from the hotel bottle, and water from the hotel jug); the glass is handed by the woman-shadow (the landlady) to the man-shadow (myself); the man-shadow hands it to you (exactly what I did); and the faintness (which you had previously described to me) follows in due course. I am shocked to identify these mysterious appearances, Mr. Midwinter, with such miserably unromantic originals as a woman who keeps a hotel, and a man who physics a country district. But your friend himself will tell you that the glass of brandy-and-water was prepared by the landlady, and that it reached him by passing from her hand to mine. We have picked up the shadows, exactly as I anticipated; and we have only to account now -- which may be done in two words -- for the manner of their appearance in the dream. After having tried to introduce the waking impression of the doctor and the landlady separately, in connection with the wrong set of circumstances, the dreaming mind comes right at the third trial, and introduces the doctor and the landlady together, in connection with the right set of circumstances. There it is in a nutshell!-- Permit me to hand you back the manuscript, with my best thanks for your very complete and striking confirmation of the rational theory of dreams
Wonderful! not a point missed anywhere from beginning to end! By Jupiter
What a thing science is
Not a point missed, as you say
And yet I doubt if we have succeeded in convincing your friend
You have _not_ convinced me
But I don't presume on that account to say that you are wrong
Do you admit
that I have traced back every event of the dream to a waking impression which preceded it in Mr. Armadale's mind
I have no wish to deny that you have done so
Have I identified the shadows with their living originals
You have identified them to your own satisfaction, and to my friend's satisfaction. Not to mine
Not to yours? Can _you_ identify them
No. I can only wait till the living originals stand revealed in the future
Spoken like an oracle, Mr. Midwinter! Have you any idea at present of who those living originals may be
I have. I believe that coming events will identify the Shadow of the Woman with a person whom my friend has not met with yet; and the Shadow of the Man with myself
Let us clearly understand this
Leaving your own case out of the question for the moment, may I ask how a shadow, which has no distinguishing mark about it, is to be identified with a living woman whom your friend doesn't know
The landscape picture of the dream has its distinguishing marks
and in that landscape the living woman will appear when the living woman is first seen
The same thing will happen, I suppose
with the man-shadow which you persist in identifying with yourself. You will be associated in the future with a statue broken in your friend's presence, with a long window looking out on a garden, and with a shower of rain pattering against the glass? Do you say that
I say that
And so again, I presume, with the next vision? You and the mysterious woman will be brought together in some place now unknown, and will present to Mr. Armadale some liquid yet unnamed, which will turn him faint?-- Do you seriously tell me you believe this
I seriously tell you I believe it
And, according to your view, these fulfillments of the dream will mark the progress of certain coming events, in which Mr. Armadale's happiness, or Mr. Armadale's safety, will be dangerously involved
That is my firm conviction
One last question
Have you any reason to give for going out of your way to adopt such a mystical view as this, when an unanswerably rational explanation of the dream lies straight before you
No reason
that I can give, either to you or to my friend
We have no common ground to start from
and if we talk till doomsday, we should not agree. Excuse my leaving you rather abruptly. It is later than I thought; and my morning's batch of sick people are waiting for me in the surgery. I have convinced _your_ mind, Mr. Armadale, at any rate; so the time we have given to this discussion has not been altogether lost. Pray stop here, and smoke your cigar. I shall be at your service again in less than an hour
Now the sparring-match between you and the doctor is over
I have got two words to say on my side. Will you do something for my sake which you won't do for your own
I will do anything you ask me
Very well. Will you let the subject of the dream drop out of our talk altogether from this time forth
Yes, if you wish it
Will you go a step further? Will you leave off thinking about the dream
It's hard to leave off thinking about it, Allan. But I will try
That's a good fellow! Now give me that trumpery bit of paper, and let's tear it up, and have done with it
Come! come
I've set my heart on lighting my cigar with it
I'll wait a little
before you light your cigar with it
How long? Till to-morrow
Longer
Till we leave the Isle of Man
Longer
Hang it -- give me a plain answer to a plain question! How long _will_ you wait
I'll wait
till we get to Thorpe Ambrose." 

THE END OF THE FIRST BOOK.


BOOK THE SECOND
MY DEAR LYDIA -- To save the post, I write to you, after a long day's worry at my place of business, on the business letter-paper, having news since we last met which it seems advisable to send you at the earliest opportunity. "To begin at the beginning. After carefully considering the thing, I am quite sure you will do wisely with young Armadale if you hold your tongue about Madeira and all that happened there. Your position was, no doubt, a very strong one with his mother. You had privately helped her in playing a trick on her own father; you had been ungratefully dismissed, at a pitiably tender age, as soon as you had served her purpose; and, when you came upon her suddenly, after a separation of more than twenty years, you found her in failing health, with a grown-up son, whom she had kept in total ignorance of the true story of her marriage. 

"Have you any such advantages as these with the young gentleman who has survived her? If he is not a born idiot he will decline to believe your shocking aspersions on the memory of his mother; and -- seeing that you have no proofs at this distance of time to meet him with -- there is an end of your money-grubbing in the golden Armadale diggings. Mind, I don't dispute that the old lady's heavy debt of obligation, after what you did for her in Madeira, is not paid yet; and that the son is the next person to settle with you, now the mother has slipped through your fingers. Only squeeze him the right way, my dear, that's what I venture to suggest -- squeeze him the right way. 

"And which is the right way? That question brings me to my news. 

"Have you thought again of that other notion of yours of trying your hand on this lucky young gentleman, with nothing but your own good looks and your own quick wits to help you? The idea hung on my mind so strangely after you were gone that it ended in my sending a little note to my lawyer, to have the will under which young Armadale has got his fortune examined at Doctor's Commons. The result turns out to be something infinitely more encouraging than either you or I could possibly have hoped for. After the lawyer's report to me, there cannot be a moment's doubt of what you ought to do. In two words, Lydia, take the bull by the horns -- and marry him! 

"I am quite serious. He is much better worth the venture than you suppose. Only persuade him to make you Mrs. Armadale, and you may set all after-discoveries at flat defiance. As long as he lives, you can make your own terms with him; and, if he dies, the will entitles you, in spite of anything he can say or do -- with children or without them -- to an income chargeable on his estate of _twelve hundred a year for life_. There is no doubt about this; the lawyer himself has looked at the will. Of course, Mr. Blanchard had his son and his son's widow in his eye when he made the provision. But, as it is not limited to any one heir by name, and not revoked anywhere, it now holds as good with young Armadale as it would have held under other circumstances with Mr. Blanchard's son. What a chance for you, after all the miseries and the dangers you have gone through, to be mistress of Thorpe Ambrose, if he lives; to have an income for life, if he dies! Hook him, my poor dear; hook him at any sacrifice. 

"I dare say you will make the same objection when you read this which you made when we were talking about it the other day; I mean the objection of your age. 

"Now, my good creature, just listen to me. The question is -- not whether you were five-and-thirty last birthday; we will own the dreadful truth, and say you were -- but whether you do look, or don't look, your real age. My opinion on this matter ought to be, and is, one of the best opinions in London. I have had twenty years experience among our charming sex in making up battered old faces and wornout old figures to look like new, and I say positively you don't look a day over thirty, if as much. If you will follow my advice about dressing, and use one or two of my applications privately, I guarantee to put you back three years more. I will forfeit all the money I shall have to advance for you in this matter, if, when I have ground you young again in my wonderful mill, you look more than seven-and-twenty in any man's eyes living -- except, of course, when you wake anxious in the small hours of the morning; and then, my dear, you will be old and ugly in the retirement of your own room, and it won't matter. 

"'But, ' you may say, 'supposing all this, here I am, even with your art to help me, looking a good six years older than he is; and that is against me at starting.' Is it? Just think again. Surely, your own experience must have shown you that the commonest of all common weaknesses, in young fellows of this Armadale's age, is to fall in love with women older than themselves. Who are the men who really appreciate us in the bloom of our youth (I'm sure I have cause to speak well of the bloom of youth; I made fifty guineas to-day by putting it on the spotted shoulders of a woman old enough to be your mother)-- who are the men, I say, who are ready to worship us when we are mere babies of seventeen? The gay young gentlemen in the bloom of their own youth? No! The cunning old wretches who are on the wrong side of forty. 

"And what is the moral of this, as the story-books say? 

"The moral is that the chances, with such a head as you have got on your shoulders, are all in your favor. If you feel your present forlorn position, as I believe you do; if you know what a charming woman (in the men's eyes) you can still be when you please; and if all your resolution has really come back, after that shocking outbreak of desperation on board the steamer (natural enough, I own, under the dreadful provocation laid on you), you will want no further persuasion from me to try this experiment. Only to think of how things turn out! If the other young booby had not jumped into the river after you, _this_ young booby would never have had the estate. It really looks as if fate had determined that you were to be Mrs. Armadale, of Thorpe Ambrose; and who can control his fate, as the poet says? 

"Send me one line to say Yes or No; and believe me your attached old friend, 

"MARIA OLDERSHAW
YOU OLD WRETCH -- I won't say Yes or No till I have had a long, long look at my glass first. If you had any real regard for anybody but your wicked old self, you would know that the bare idea of marrying again (after what I have gone through) is an idea that makes my flesh creep. "But there can be no harm in your sending me a little more information while I am making up my mind. You have got twenty pounds of mine still left out of those things you sold for me; send ten pounds here for my expenses, in a post-office order, and use the other ten for making private inquiries at Thorpe Ambrose. I want to know when the two Blanchard women go away, and when young Armadale stirs up the dead ashes in the family fire-place. Are you quite sure he will turn out as easy to manage as you think? If he takes after his hypocrite of a mother, I can tell you this: Judas Iscariot has come to life again. 

"I am very comfortable in this lodging. There are lovely flowers in the garden, and the birds wake me in the morning delightfully. I have hired a reasonably good piano. The only man I care two straws about -- don't be alarmed; he was laid in his grave many a long year ago, under the name of BEETHOVEN -- keeps me company, in my lonely hours. The landlady would keep me company, too, if I would only let her. I hate women. The new curate paid a visit to the other lodger yesterday, and passed me on the lawn as he came out. My eyes have lost nothing yet, at any rate, though I _am_ five-and-thirty; the poor man actually blushed when I looked at him! What sort of color do you think he would have turned, if one of the little birds in the garden had whispered in his ear, and told him the true story of the charming Miss Gwilt? 

"Good-by, Mother Oldershaw. I rather doubt whether I am yours, or anybody's, affectionately; but we all tell lies at the bottoms of our letters, don't we? If you are my attached old friend, I must, of course, be yours affectionately. 

"LYDIA GWILT. 

"P.S.-- Keep your odious powders and paints and washes for the spotted shoulders of your customers; not one of them shall touch my skin, I promise you. If you really want to be useful, try and find out some quieting draught to keep me from grinding my teeth in my sleep. I shall break them one of these nights; and then what will become of my beauty, I wonder
Richmond, Wednesday Morning. "MRS. OLDERSHAW -- Send me my seven-and-twenty shillings, and devote yourself to your own proper business. Yours, L. G
Richmond, Wednesday Night. "DEAR OLD LOVE -- Keep the seven-and-twenty shillings, and burn my other letter. I have changed my mind. 

"I wrote the first time after a horrible night. I write this time after a ride on horseback, a tumbler of claret, and the breast of a chicken. Is that explanation enough? Please say Yes, for I want to go back to my piano. 

"No; I can't go back yet; I must answer your question first. But are you really so very simple as to suppose that I don't see straight through you and your letter? You know that the major's difficulty is our opportunity as well as I do; but you want me to take the responsibility of making the first proposal, don't you? Suppose I take it in your own roundabout way? Suppose I say, 'Pray don't ask me how I propose inflaming Mr. Armadale and extinguishing Miss Milroy; the question is so shockingly abrupt I really can't answer it. Ask me, instead, if it is the modest ambition of my life to become Miss Milroy's governess?' Yes, if you please, Mrs. Oldershaw, and if you will assist me by becoming my reference. 

"There it is for you! If some serious disaster happens (which is quite possible), what a comfort it will be to remember that it was all my fault! 

"Now I have done this for you, will you do something for me. I want to dream away the little time I am likely to have left here in my own way. Be a merciful Mother Oldershaw, and spare me the worry of looking at the Ins and Outs, and adding up the chances For and Against, in this new venture of mine. Think for me, in short, until I am obliged to think for myself. 

"I had better not write any more, or I shall say something savage that you won't like. I am in one of my tempers to-night. I want a husband to vex, or a child to beat, or something of that sort. Do you ever like to see the summer insects kill themselves in the candle? I do, sometimes. Good-night, Mrs. Jezebel The longer you can leave me here the better. The air agrees with me, and I am looking charmingly. 

"L. G
Thursday. "MY DEAR LYDIA -- Some persons in my situation might be a little offended at the tone of your last letter. But I am so fondly attached to you! And when I love a person, it is so very hard, my dear, for that person to offend me! Don't ride quite so far, and only drink half a tumblerful of claret next time. I say no more. 

"Shall we leave off our fencing-match and come to serious matters now? How curiously hard it always seems to be for women to understand each other, especially when they have got their pens in their hands! But suppose we try. 

"Well, then, to begin with: I gather from your letter that you have wisely decided to try the Thorpe Ambrose experiment, and to secure, if you can, an excellent position at starting by becoming a member of Major Milroy's household. If the circumstances turn against you, and some other woman gets the governess's place (about which I shall have something more to say presently), you will then have no choice but to make Mr. Armadale's acquaintance in some other character. In any case, you will want my assistance; and the first question, therefore, to set at rest between us is the question of what I am willing to do, and what I can do, to help you. 

"A woman, my dear Lydia, with your appearance, your manners, your abilities, and your education, can make almost any excursions into society that she pleases if she only has money in her pocket and a respectable reference to appeal to in cases of emergency. As to the money, in the first place. I will engage to find it, on condition of your remembering my assistance with adequate pecuniary gratitude if you win the Armadale prize. Your promise so to remember me, embodying the terms in plain figures, shall be drawn out on paper by my own lawyer, so that we can sign and settle at once when I see you in London. 

"Next, as to the reference. 

"Here, again, my services are at your disposal, on another condition. It is this: that you present yourself at Thorpe Ambrose, under the name to which you have returned ever since that dreadful business of your marriage; I mean your own maiden name of Gwilt. I have only one motive in insisting on this; I wish to run no needless risks. My experience, as confidential adviser of my customers, in various romantic cases of private embarrassment, has shown me that an assumed name is, nine times out of ten, a very unnecessary and a very dangerous form of deception. Nothing could justify your assuming a name but the fear of young Armadale's detecting you -- a fear from which we are fortunately relieved by his mother's own conduct in keeping your early connection with her a profound secret from her son and from everybody. 

"The next, and last, perplexity to settle relates, my dear, to the chances for and against your finding your way, in the capacity of governess, into Major Milroy's house. Once inside the door, with your knowledge of music and languages, if you can keep your temper, you may be sure of keeping the place. The only doubt, as things are now, is whether you can get it. 

"In the major's present difficulty about his daughter's education, the chances are, I think, in favor of his advertising for a governess. Say he does advertise, what address will he give for applicants to write to? 

"If he gives an address in London, good-by to all chances in your favor at once; for this plain reason, that we shall not be able to pick out his advertisement from the advertisements of other people who want governesses, and who will give them addresses in London as well. If, on the other hand, our luck helps us, and he refers his correspondents to a shop, post-office, or what not _at Thorpe Ambrose_, there we have our advertiser as plainly picked out for us as we can wish. In this last case, I have little or no doubt -- with me for your reference -- of your finding your way into the major's family circle. We have one great advantage over the other women who will answer the advertisement. Thanks to my inquiries on the spot, I know Major Milroy to be a poor man; and we will fix the salary you ask at a figure that is sure to tempt him. As for the style of the letter, if you and I together can't write a modest and interesting application for the vacant place, I should like to know who can? 

"All this, however, is still in the future. For the present my advice is, stay where you are, and dream to your heart's content, till you hear from me again. I take in _The Times_ regularly, and you may trust my wary eye not to miss the right advertisement. We can luckily give the major time, without doing any injury to our own interests; for there is no fear just yet of the girl's getting the start of you. The public reception, as we know, won't be ready till near the end of the month; and we may safely trust young Armadale's vanity to keep him out of his new house until his flatterers are all assembled to welcome him. 

"It's odd, isn't it, to think how much depends on this half-pay officer's decision? For my part, I shall wake every morning now with the same question in my mind: If the major's advertisment appears, which will the major say -- Thorpe Ambrose, or London? 

"Ever, my dear Lydia, affectionately yours, 

"MARIA OLDERSHAW
All mine
Hang me if I can beat it into my head yet. All mine
No romance here
Nothing to startle Midwinter's fidgety nerves in this house
And quite right, too
Deuce take all mystery and romance! Let's be clean and comfortable, that's what I say
There! there! don't let me frighten you
I quite agree with you, my dear; your face is well worth looking at. Who are you? Oh, the housemaid. And what's your name? Susan, eh? Come! I like your name, to begin with. Do you know who I am, Susan? I'm your master, though you may not think it. Your character? Oh, yes! Mrs. Blanchard gave you a capital character. You shall stop here; don't be afraid. And you'll be a good girl, Susan, and wear smart little caps and aprons and bright ribbons, and you'll look nice and pretty, and dust the furniture, won't you
And who may you be
Not the man who let us in last night? Ah, I thought not. The second footman, eh? Character? Oh, yes; capital character. Stop here, of course. You can valet me, can you? Bother valeting me! I like to put on my own clothes, and brush them, too, when they _are_ on; and, if I only knew how to black my own boots, by George, I should like to do it! What room's this? Morning-room, eh? And here's the dining-room, of course. Good heavens, what a table! it's as long as my yacht, and longer. I say, by-the-by, what's your name? Richard, is it? Well, Richard, the vessel I sail in is a vessel of my own building! What do you think of that? You look to me just the right sort of man to be my steward on board. If you're not sick at sea -- oh, you _are_ sick at sea? Well, then, we'll say nothing more about it. And what room is this? Ah, yes; the library, of course -- more in Mr. Midwinter's way than mine. Mr. Midwinter is the gentleman who came here with me last night; and mind this, Richard, you're all to show him as much attention as you show me. Where are we now? What's this door at the back? Billiard-room and smoking-room, eh? Jolly. Another door! and more stairs! Where do they go to? and who's this coming up? Take your time, ma'am; you're not quite so young as you were once -- take your time
motherly
Glad to see you looking so well, ma'am
Your name is Gripper, is it? I consider you, Mrs. Gripper, the most valuable person in the house. For this reason, that nobody in the house eats a heartier dinner every day than I do. Directions? Oh, no; I've no directions to give. I leave all that to you. Lots of strong soup, and joints done with the gravy in them -- there's my notion of good feeding, in two words. Steady! Here's somebody else. Oh, to be sure -- the butler! Another valuable person. We'll go right through all the wine in the cellar, Mr. Butler; and if I can't give you a sound opinion after that, we'll persevere boldly, and go right through it again. Talking of wine -- halloo! here are more of them coming up stairs. There! there! don't trouble yourselves. You've all got capital characters, and you shall all stop here along with me. What was I saying just now? Something about wine; so it was. I'll tell you what, Mr. Butler, it isn't every day that a new master comes to Thorpe Ambrose; and it's my wish that we should all start together on the best possible terms. Let the servants have a grand jollification downstairs to celebrate my arrival, and give them what they like to drink my health in. It's a poor heart, Mrs. Gripper, that never rejoices, isn't it? No; I won't look at the cellar now: I want to go out, and get a breath of fresh air before breakfast. Where's Richard? I say, have I got a garden here? Which side of the house is it! That side, eh? You needn't show me round. I'll go alone, Richard, and lose myself, if I can, in my own property
People talk of the difficulty of managing their servants
What on earth do they mean? I don't see any difficulty at all
Nice shady sort of place for a cigar
I wish I could beat it into my head that it really belongs to _me_
It's no use, miss
I mustn't allow it, and I won't allow it. What would Mr. Armadale say
If Mr. Armadale is the gentleman I take him for, you old brute
he would say, 'Come into my garden, Miss Milroy, as often as you like, and take as many nosegays as you please
Come into my garden, Miss Milroy, as often as you like, and take as many nosegays as you please
I bid you humbly welcome to Thorpe Ambrose, sir
My name is Abraham Sage. I've been employed in the grounds for more than forty years; and I hope you'll be pleased to continue me in my place
Don't! pray don't, Mr. Armadale
I am so ashamed! I didn't mean to invite myself in that bold way into your garden; my tongue ran away with me -- it did, indeed! What can I say to excuse myself? Oh, Mr. Armadale, what must you think of me
I'll tell you what I think, Miss Milroy
I think the luckiest walk I ever took in my life was the walk this morning that brought me here
I deserve a good scolding
I don't deserve compliments, Mr. Armadale -- least of all from _you_
Oh, yes, you do
Besides, it isn't a compliment; it's true. You are the prettiest -- I beg your pardon, Miss Milroy! _my_ tongue ran away with me that time
I humbly bid you welcome to Thorpe Ambrose, sir
My name
I have been employed in the grounds
for more than forty years
You shall be employed in the grounds for forty more, if you'll only hold your tongue and take yourself off
Thank you kindly, sir
Well
When more convenient, sir
I should wish respectfully to speak to you about my son. Perhaps it may be more convenient in the course of the day? My humble duty, sir, and my best thanks. My son is strictly sober. He is accustomed to the stables, and he belongs to the Church of England -- without incumbrances
If that's a specimen of a trustworthy old servant
I think I'd rather take my chance of being cheated by a new one. _You_ shall not be troubled with him again, Miss Milroy, at any rate. All the flower-beds in the garden are at your disposal, and all the fruit in the fruit season, if you'll only come here and eat it
Oh, Mr. Armadale, how very, very kind you are. How can I thank you
You can do me the greatest possible favor
You can assist me in forming an agreeable impression of my own grounds
Dear me! how
By taking me with you, Miss Milroy, on your morning walk
I don't think it's quite right, Mr. Armadale
Oughtn't we to have some old lady here? Isn't it improper to take your arm until I know you a little better than I do now? I am obliged to ask; I have had so little instruction; I have seen so little of society, and one of papa's friends once said my manners were too bold for my age. What do _you_ think
I think it's a very good thing your papa's friend is not here now
I should quarrel with him to a dead certainty. As for society, Miss Milroy, nobody knows less about it than I do; but if we _had_ an old lady here, I must say myself I think she would be uncommonly in the way. Won't you
Do
You are as bad as the gardener, Mr. Armadale
I'm sure it's wrong
And where are we going to, now
Into another garden
I'll drop your arm
if you do! We _were_ lucky to get the cottage, Mr. Armadale. Papa said he felt under an obligation to you for letting it, the day we got in. And _I_ said I felt under an obligation, no longer ago than last week
You, Miss Milroy
Yes. It may surprise you to hear it; but if you hadn't let the cottage to papa, I believe I should have suffered the indignity and misery of being sent to school
If she only knew that I had tossed up for it
I dare say you don't understand why I should feel such a horror of going to school
If I had gone to school in early life -- I mean at the age when other girls go -- I shouldn't have minded it now. But I had no such chance at the time. It was the time of mamma's illness and of papa's unfortunate speculation; and as papa had nobody to comfort him but me, of course I stayed at home. You needn't laugh; I was of some use, I can tell you. I helped papa over his trouble, by sitting on his knee after dinner, and asking him to tell me stories of all the remarkable people he had known when he was about in the great world, at home and abroad. Without me to amuse him in the evening, and his clock to occupy him in the daytime
His clock
Oh, yes! I ought to have told you. Papa is an extraordinary mechanical genius. You will say so, too, when you see his clock. It's nothing like so large, of course, but it's on the model of the famous clock at Strasbourg. Only think, he began it when I was eight years old; and (though I was sixteen last birthday) it isn't finished yet! Some of our friends were quite surprised he should take to such a thing when his troubles began. But papa himself set that right in no time; he reminded them that Louis the Sixteenth took to lock-making when _his_ troubles began, and then everybody was perfectly satisfied
Oh, Mr. Armadale
here is my unlucky tongue running away with me again! I am talking to you already as if I had known you for years! This is what papa's friend meant when he said my manners were too bold. It's quite true; I have a dreadful way of getting familiar with people, if
if I like them
No, no; do go on
It's a fault of mine to be familiar, too. Besides, we _must_ be familiar; we are such near neighbors. I'm rather an uncultivated sort of fellow, and I don't know quite how to say it; but I want your cottage to be jolly and friendly with my house, and my house to be jolly and friendly with your cottage. There's my meaning, all in the wrong words. Do go on, Miss Milroy; pray go on
I don't exactly remember where I was
I only remember I had something I wanted to tell you. This comes, Mr. Armadale, of my taking your arm. I should get on so much better, if you would only consent to walk separately. You won't? Well, then, will you tell me what it was I wanted to say? Where was I before I went wandering off to papa's troubles and papa's clock
At school
_Not_ at school, you mean
and all through _you_. Now I can go on again, which is a great comfort. I am quite serious, Mr. Armadale, in saying that I should have been sent to school, if you had said No when papa proposed for the cottage. This is how it happened. When we began moving in, Mrs. Blanchard sent us a most kind message from the great house to say that her servants were at our disposal, if we wanted any assistance. The least papa and I could do, after that, was to call and thank her. We saw Mrs. Blanchard and Miss Blanchard. Mistress was charming, and miss looked perfectly lovely in her mourning. I'm sure you admire her? She's tall and pale and graceful -- quite your idea of beauty, I should think
Nothing like it
My idea of beauty at the present moment
I mean I have never seen either Mrs. Blanchard or her niece
How extraordinary that you should never have seen them
Why, you are a perfect stranger to everything and everybody at Thorpe Ambrose! Well, after Miss Blanchard and I had sat and talked a little while, I heard my name on Mrs. Blanchard's lips and instantly held my breath. She was asking papa if I had finished my education. Out came papa's great grievance directly. My old governess, you must know, left us to be married just before we came here, and none of our friends could produce a new one whose terms were reasonable. 'I'm told, Mrs. Blanchard, by people who understand it better than I do,' says papa, 'that advertising is a risk. It all falls on me, in Mrs. Milroy's state of health, and I suppose I must end in sending my little girl to school. Do you happen to know of a school within the means of a poor man?' Mrs. Blanchard shook her head; I could have kissed her on the spot for doing it. 'All my experience, Major Milroy,' says this perfect angel of a woman, 'is in favor of advertising. My niece's governess was originally obtained by an advertisement, and you may imagine her value to us when I tell you she lived in our family for more than ten years.' I could have gone down on both my knees and worshipped Mrs. Blanchard then and there; and I only wonder I didn't! Papa was struck at the time -- I could see that -- and he referred to it again on the way home. 'Though I have been long out of the world, my dear,' says papa, 'I know a highly-bred woman and a sensible woman when I see her. Mrs. Blanchard's experience puts advertising in a new light; I must think about it.' He has thought about it, and (though he hasn't openly confessed it to me) I know that he decided to advertise, no later than last night. So, if papa thanks you for letting the cottage, Mr. Armadale, I thank you, too. But for you, we should never have known darling Mrs. Blanchard; and but for darling Mrs. Blanchard, I should have been sent to school
Isn't it lovely
Do come in
May I
Won't the major think it too early
Early or late, I am sure papa will be only too glad to see you
Papa! a surprise for you
Mr. Armadale has come to Thorpe Ambrose; and I have brought him here to see you
I am heartily glad to see you, Mr. Armadale
You have done me one favor already by taking me as your tenant, and you now do me another by paying this friendly visit. If you have not breakfasted already, let me waive all ceremony on my side, and ask you to take your place at our little table
With the greatest pleasure, Major Milroy, if I am not in the way
I was sorry to hear from Miss Milroy that Mrs. Milroy is an invalid. Perhaps my being here unexpectedly; perhaps the sight of a strange face
I understand your hesitation, Mr. Armadale
but it is quite unnecessary. Mrs. Milroy's illness keeps her entirely confined to her own room. Have we got everything we want on the table, my love
Will you come and make tea
Do my eyes deceive me, papa
Or were you really and truly writing the advertisement when I came in
I had just finished it
But, my dear, Mr. Armadale is here -- we are waiting for breakfast
Mr. Armadale knows all about it
I told him in the garden
Oh, yes
Pray, don't make a stranger of me, major! If it's about the governess, I've got something (in an indirect sort of way) to do with it too
Oh, papa
there's one thing here I don't like at all! Why do you put grandmamma's initials at the end? Why do you tell them to write to grandmamma's house in London
My dear! your mother can do nothing in this matter, as you know. And as for me (even if I went to London), questioning strange ladies about their characters and accomplishments is the last thing in the world that I am fit to do. Your grandmamma is on the spot; and your grandmamma is the proper person to receive the letters, and to make all the necessary inquires
But I want to see the letters myself
Some of them are sure to be amusing
I don't apologize for this very unceremonious reception of you, Mr. Armadale
It may be useful as a warning, if you ever chance to marry and have a daughter, not to begin, as I have done, by letting her have her own way
Besides
I should like to help in choosing which letters we answer, and which we don't. I think I ought to have some voice in the selection of my own governess. Why not tell them, papa, to send their letters down here -- to the post-office or the stationer's, or anywhere you like? When you and I have read them, we can send up the letters we prefer to grandmamma; and she can ask all the questions, and pick out the best governess, just as you have arranged already, without leaving ME entirely in the dark, which I consider (don't you, Mr. Armadale?) to be quite inhuman. Let me alter the address, papa; do, there's a darling
We shall get no breakfast, Mr. Armadale, if I don't say Yes
Do as you like, my dear
As long as it ends in your grandmamma's managing the matter for us, the rest is of very little consequence
_Apply, by letter, to M., Post-office, Thorpe Ambrose, Norfolk_
There
The advertisement may go to London now; and, if a governess _does_ come of it, oh, papa, who in the name of wonder will she be? Tea or coffee, Mr. Armadale? I'm really ashamed of having kept you waiting. But it is such a comfort
to get all one's business off one's mind before breakfast
The house where I lived in service when I was a boy, was a fine one
but it was nothing to this! I wonder if Allan is as surprised and delighted as I am
If I was not out of practice
I could try some of my old tumbling tricks on that delicious grass
If Allan has met with the young lady
Allan doesn't want me
Jane Armadale, from her beloved father. Thorpe Ambrose, October, 1828
Farewell to Thorpe Ambrose
March, 1829
Here in the country house, or there on board the wreck
the traces of my father's crime follow me, go where I may
Is _this_ chance
The place where his mother suffered is the place he sees in the Dream; and the first morning in the new house is the morning that reveals it, not to _him_, but to me. Oh, Allan! Allan! how will it end
I really haven't missed you
and I am very, very glad to hear that the new neighbors have produced such a pleasant impression on you already
Exactly the sort of place I should have expected you to hit on
Small and snug and unpretending. I know you, Master Midwinter! You'll be slipping off here when the county families come visiting, and I rather think on those dreadful occasions you won't find me far behind you. What's the matter? You look ill and out of spirits. Hungry? Of course you are! unpardonable of me to have kept you waiting. This door leads somewhere, I suppose; let's try a short cut into the house. Don't be afraid of my not keeping you company at breakfast. I didn't eat much at the cottage; I feasted my eyes on Miss Milroy, as the poets say. Oh, the darling! the darling! she turns you topsy-turvy the moment you look at her. As for her father, wait till you see his wonderful clock! It's twice the size of the famous clock at Strasbourg, and the most tremendous striker ever heard yet in the memory of man
Aha, Mrs. Gripper, there you are with your pots and pans, and your burning fiery furnace! One had need be Shadrach, Meshach, and the other fellow to stand over that. Breakfast as soon as ever you like. Eggs, sausages, bacon, kidneys, marmalade, water-cresses, coffee, and so forth. My friend and I belong to the select few whom it's a perfect privilege to cook for. Voluptuaries, Mrs. Gripper, voluptuaries, both of us. You'll see
I shall make that worthy creature young again; I'm better than a doctor for Mrs. Gripper. When she laughs, she shakes her fat sides, and when she shakes her fat sides, she exerts her muscular system; and when she exerts her muscular system -- Ha! here's Susan again. Don't squeeze yourself flat against the banisters, my dear; if you don't mind hustling _me_ on the stairs, I rather like hustling _you_. She looks like a full-blown rose when she blushes, doesn't she? Stop, Susan! I've orders to give. Be very particular with Mr. Midwinter's room: shake up his bed like mad, and dust his furniture till those nice round arms of yours ache again. Nonsense, my dear fellow! I'm not too familiar with them; I'm only keeping them up to their work. Now, then, Richard! where do we breakfast? Oh, here. Between ourselves, Midwinter, these splendid rooms of mine are a size too large for me; I don't feel as if I should ever be on intimate terms with my own furniture. My views in life are of the snug and slovenly sort -- a kitchen chair, you know, and a low ceiling. Man wants but little here below, and wants that little long. That's not exactly the right quotation; but it expresses my meaning, and we'll let alone correcting it till the next opportunity
I beg your pardon
here is something waiting for you which you have not noticed yet
I can't make head or tail of it
can you
Sir -- I trust you will pardon the liberty I take in sending these few lines to wait your arrival at Thorpe Ambrose. In the event of circumstances not disposing you to place your law business in the hands of Mr. Darch
Darch is our friend the lawyer
Don't you remember our spinning the half-crown on the cabin table, when I got the two offers for the cottage? Heads, the major; tails, the lawyer. This is the lawyer
In the event of circumstances not disposing you to place your law business in the hands of Mr. Darch, I beg to say that I shall be happy to take charge of your interests, if you feel willing to honor me with your confidence. Inclosing a reference (should you desire it) to my agents in London, and again apologizing for this intrusion, I beg to remain, sir, respectfully yours, A. PEDGIFT, Sen
Circumstances
What circumstances can possibly indispose you to give your law business to Mr. Darch
Nothing can indispose me
Besides being the family lawyer here, Darch was the first to write me word at Paris of my coming in for my fortune; and, if I have got any business to give, of course he ought to have it
I am sadly afraid, Allan, there is something wrong already
This man would never have ventured on the application he has made to you, unless he had some good reason for believing he would succeed. If you wish to put yourself right at starting, you will send to Mr. Darch this morning to tell him you are here, and you will take no notice for the present of Mr. Pedgift's letter
Who's Mr. Pedgift
Wait
Wait
till I can speak to you first
This is beyond a joke, Allan
Somebody must meet your tenants on the rent-day who is really fit to take the steward's place. With the best will in the world to learn, it is impossible for _me_ to master the business at a week's notice. Don't, pray don't let your anxiety for my welfare put you in a false position with other people! I should never forgive myself if I was the unlucky cause
If I write to London by to-night's post for the man who came down here before, will that satisfy you
Our time is short
and the man may not be at liberty. Why not try in the neighborhood first? You were going to write to Mr. Darch. Send at once, and see if he can't help us between this and post-time
You shall breakfast in peace, you old fidget
Dear Sir -- Here I am, bag and baggage. Will you kindly oblige me by being my lawyer? I ask this, because I want to consult you at once. Please look in in the course of the day, and stop to dinner if you possibly can. Yours truly. ALLAN ARMADALE
Here, Richard, take this at once, and wait for an answer. And, I say, if there's any news stirring in the town, pick it up and bring it back with you. See how I manage my servants
See how I adapt myself to my new duties! I haven't been down here one clear day yet, and I'm taking an interest in the neighborhood already
Any answer from Mr. Darch
Mr. Darch was engaged, sir. I was desired to say that he would send an answer
Any news in the town
No, sir; nothing in particular
Richard
if I was to guess that there _is_ some news in the town, and that you don't like telling it to your master, should I be guessing the truth
I don't know how you have found it out
but I can't deny you have guessed right
If you let me hear what the news is, I will take the responsibility on myself of telling Mr. Armadale
Has the little you have seen of your master, Richard, inclined you to like him
A pleasanter and kinder gentleman than Mr. Armadale no one could wish to serve
If you think that
you won't object to give me some information which will help your master to set himself right with his neighbors. Come into the house
When the late Mr. Blanchard went out to make calls in the neighborhood, it was your place to go with him, was it not
Very well. Be ready in an hour's time, if you please, to go out with Mr. Armadale
Who would have imagined
that my foot-boy's experience of the ways of gentlefolks would be worth looking back at one day for Allan's sake
Oh, hang 'em
Let's have another cigar
chimney-pot hat
I am going to ask a great favor
If you won't call on these people for your own sake, will you call on them to please _me_
Don't mention it in the neighborhood
I should like to change places with one of my own cows
SIR -- I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of to-day's date, honoring me with two proposals; namely, ONE inviting me to act as your legal adviser, and ONE inviting me to pay you a visit at your house. In reference to the first proposal, I beg permission to decline it with thanks. With regard to the second proposal, I have to inform you that circumstances have come to my knowledge relating to the letting of the cottage at Thorpe Ambrose which render it impossible for me (in justice to myself) to accept your invitation. I have ascertained, sir, that my offer reached you at the same time as Major Milroy's; and that, with both proposals thus before you, you gave the preference to a total stranger, who addressed you through a house agent, over a man who had faithfully served your relatives for two generations, and who had been the first person to inform you of the most important event in your life. After this specimen of your estimate of what is due to the claims of common courtesy and common justice, I cannot flatter myself that I possess any of the qualities which would fit me to take my place on the list of your friends. "I remain, sir, your obedient servant, 

"JAMES DARCH
Stop the messenger
Give me pen, ink, and paper! By the Lord Harry, they're a nice set of people in these parts; the whole neighborhood is in a conspiracy to bully me
Sir -- I despise you and your letter
Too strong
I'll give it to the lawyer in his own cool and cutting style
Sir -- You remind me of an Irish bull. I mean that story in 'Joe Miller' where Pat remarked, in the hearing of a wag hard by, that 'the reciprocity was all on one side.' _Your_ reciprocity is all on one side. You take the privilege of refusing to be my lawyer, and then you complain of my taking the privilege of refusing to be your landlord
Neat
Argument and hard hitting both in one. I wonder where my knack of writing comes from
As for your casting my invitation back in my teeth, I beg to inform you my teeth are none the worse for it. I am equally glad to have nothing to say to you, either in the capacity of a friend or a tenant.-- ALLAN ARMADALE
Darch's hide must be a thick one
if he doesn't feel _that_
Read that
I've written him back a smasher
Whatever else they may say of me, they shan't say I was afraid to face them
Keep up your spirits
If Darch can't be counted on to send us a helping hand into the steward's office, Pedgift can
My dear Allan, I was not thinking of that; I was thinking of Mr. Darch's letter. I don't defend this sour-tempered man; but I am afraid we must admit he has some cause for complaint. Pray don't give him another chance of putting you in the wrong. Where is your answer to his letter
Gone
I always strike while the iron's hot -- a word and a blow, and the blow first, that's my way. Don't, there's a good fellow, don't fidget about the steward's books and the rent-day. Here! here's a bunch of keys they gave me last night: one of them opens the room where the steward's books are; go in and read them till I come back. I give you my sacred word of honor I'll settle it all with Pedgift before you see me again
One moment
I say nothing against Mr. Pedgift's fitness to possess your confidence, for I know nothing to justify me in distrusting him. But he has not introduced himself to your notice in a very delicate way; and he has not acknowledged (what is quite clear to my mind) that he knew of Mr. Darch's unfriendly feeling toward you when he wrote. Wait a little before you go to this stranger; wait till we can talk it over together to-night
Wait
Haven't I told you that I always strike while the iron's hot? Trust my eye for character, old boy, I'll look Pedgift through and through, and act accordingly. Don't keep me any longer, for Heaven's sake. I'm in a fine humor for tackling the resident gentry; and if I don't go at once, I'm afraid it may wear off
I have done my best
If Mr. Brock himself were here, Mr. Brock could do no more
If I could only have worked at a business
If I could only have known that the company of poets and philosophers was company too high for a vagabond like me
Curse the place
I like the bleakest hillside I ever slept on better than I like this house
The heather-bell costs nothing
and the buttercups and daisies are as bright as the best of you
How many pounds a foot did _you_ cost
Wind away over high and low like the sheep-walk on the mountain side, if you can
Oh, mamma, mamma
how _can_ you say such things
Well
how is the missus
How is the missus
If it would only please God to take the missus, it would be a blessing to everybody in the house
Am I fated to see nothing and hear nothing to-day, which can give me heart and hope for the future
Even the people Allan has let the cottage to are people whose lives are imbittered by a household misery which it is _my_ misfortune to have found out
We pass our nights on his looking-glass, and our days in his mouth
Which do you please to mean, sir -- the town or the house? I beg your pardon for asking, but they both go by the same name in these parts
I was not aware that both the house and the town went by the same name
I meant the house
That way, sir
and when you come to two roads next, please take the left one of the two. I am sorry I have business the other way, I mean in the town. I should have been happy to go with you and show you. Fine summer weather, sir, for walking? You can't miss your way if you keep to the left. Oh, don't mention it! I'm afraid I have detained you, sir. I wish you a pleasant walk back, and -- good-morning
Have I made another unlucky discovery
Shall I see this man again, I wonder? Who can he be
Major Milroy's compliments, and he was sorry that Mrs. Milroy's illness would prevent his receiving Mr. Armadale that day
Here's a riddle for you, old boy
Why am I like the resident manager of the Augean stable, before Hercules was called in to sweep the litter out? Because I have had my place to keep up, and I've gone and made an infernal mess of it! Why don't you laugh? By George, he doesn't see the point! Let's try again. Why am I like the resident manager
For God's sake, Allan, be serious for a moment
You don't know how anxious I am to hear if you have recovered the good opinion of your neighbors
That's just what the riddle was intended to tell you
But if you will have it in so many words, my own impression is that you would have done better not to disturb me under that tree in the park. I've been calculating it to a nicety, and I beg to inform you that I have sunk exactly three degrees lower in the estimation of the resident gentry since I had the pleasure of seeing you last
You _will_ have your joke out
Well, if I can't laugh, I can wait
My dear fellow, I'm not joking; I really mean what I say. You shall hear what happened; you shall have a report in full of my first visit. It will do, I can promise you, as a sample for all the rest. Mind this, in the first place, I've gone wrong with the best possible intentions. When I started for these visits, I own I was angry with that old brute of a lawyer, and I certainly had a notion of carrying things with a high hand. But it wore off somehow on the road; and the first family I called on, I went in, as I tell you, with the best possible intentions. Oh, dear, dear! there was the same spick-and-span reception-room for me to wait in, with the neat conservatory beyond, which I saw again and again and again at every other house I went to afterward. There was the same choice selection of books for me to look at -- a religious book, a book about the Duke of Wellington, a book about sporting, and a book about nothing in particular, beautifully illustrated with pictures. Down came papa with his nice white hair, and mamma with her nice lace cap; down came young mister with the pink face and straw-colored whiskers, and young miss with the plump cheeks and the large petticoats. Don't suppose there was the least unfriendliness on my side; I always began with them in the same way -- I insisted on shaking hands all round. That staggered them to begin with. When I came to the sore subject next -- the subject of the public reception -- I give you my word of honor I took the greatest possible pains with my apologies. It hadn't the slightest effect; they let my apologies in at one ear and out at the other, and then waited to hear more. Some men would have been disheartened: I tried another way with them; I addressed myself to the master of the house, and put it pleasantly next. 'The fact is,' I said, 'I wanted to escape the speechifying -- my getting up, you know, and telling you to your face you're the best of men, and I beg to propose your health; and your getting up and telling me to my face I'm the best of men, and you beg to thank me; and so on, man after man, praising each other and pestering each other all round the table.' That's how I put it, in an easy, light-handed, convincing sort of way. Do you think any of them took it in the same friendly spirit? Not one! It's my belief they had got their speeches ready for the reception, with the flags and the flowers, and that they're secretly angry with me for stopping their open mouths just as they were ready to begin. Anyway, whenever we came to the matter of the speechifying (whether they touched it first or I), down I fell in their estimation the first of those three steps I told you of just now. Don't suppose I made no efforts to get up again! I made desperate efforts. I found they were all anxious to know what sort of life I had led before I came in for the Thorpe Ambrose property, and I did my best to satisfy them. And what came of that, do you think? Hang me, if I didn't disappoint them for the second time! When they found out that I had actually never been to Eton or Harrow, or Oxford or Cambridge, they were quite dumb with astonishment. I fancy they thought me a sort of outlaw. At any rate, they all froze up again; and down I fell the second step in their estimation. Never mind! I wasn't to be beaten; I had promised you to do my best, and I did it. I tried cheerful small-talk about the neighborhood next. The women said nothing in particular; the men, to my unutterable astonishment, all began to condole with me. I shouldn't be able to find a pack of hounds, they said, within twenty miles of my house; and they thought it only right to prepare me for the disgracefully careless manner in which the Thorpe Ambrose covers had been preserved. I let them go on condoling with me, and then what do you think I did? I put my foot in it again. 'Oh, don't take that to heart!' I said; 'I don't care two straws about hunting or shooting, either. When I meet with a bird in my walk, I can't for the life of me feel eager to kill it; I rather like to see the bird flying about and enjoying itself.' You should have seen their faces! They had thought me a sort of outlaw before; now they evidently thought me mad. Dead silence fell upon them all; and down I tumbled the third step in the general estimation. It was just the same at the next house, and the next and the next. The devil possessed us all, I think. It _would_ come out, now in one way, and now in another, that I couldn't make speeches -- that I had been brought up without a university education -- and that I could enjoy a ride on horseback without galloping after a wretched stinking fox or a poor distracted little hare. These three unlucky defects of mine are not excused, it seems, in a country gentleman (especially when he has dodged a public reception to begin with). I think I got on best, upon the whole, with the wives and daughters. The women and I always fell, sooner or later, on the subject of Mrs. Blanchard and her niece. We invariably agreed that they had done wisely in going to Florence; and the only reason we had to give for our opinion was that we thought their minds would be benefited after their sad bereavement, by the contemplation of the masterpieces of Italian art. Every one of the ladies -- I solemnly declare it -- at every house I went to, came sooner or later to Mrs. and Miss Blanchard's bereavement and the masterpieces of Italian art. What we should have done without that bright idea to help us, I really don't know. The one pleasant thing at any of the visits was when we all shook our heads together, and declared that the masterpieces would console them. As for the rest of it, there's only one thing more to be said. What I might be in other places I don't know: I'm the wrong man in the wrong place here. Let me muddle on for the future in my own way, with my own few friends; and ask me anything else in the world, as long as you don't ask me to make any more calls on my neighbors
It shall be as you wish
I am sorry for what has happened; but I am not the less obliged to you, Allan, for having done what I asked you
What _must_ be, _will_ be
What have I to do with the future, and what has he
Cheer up
_Your_ affairs are in a thriving condition, at any rate. I paid one pleasant visit in the town, which I haven't told you of yet. I've seen Pedgift, and Pedgift's son, who helps him in the office. They're the two jolliest lawyers I ever met with in my life; and, what's more, they can produce the very man you want to teach you the steward's business
I thought of you
as soon as the two Pedgifts and I had had a glass of wine all round to drink to our friendly connection. The finest sherry I ever tasted in my life; I've ordered some of the same -- but that's not the question just now. In two words I told these worthy fellows your difficulty, and in two seconds old Pedgift understood all about it. 'I have got the man in my office,' he said, 'and before the audit-day comes, I'll place him with the greatest pleasure at your friend's disposal
Have you seen this Mr. Bashwood yourself, Allan
No
he was out -- out with the bag, as young Pedgift called it. They tell me he's a decent elderly man. A little broken by his troubles, and a little apt to be nervous and confused in his manner with strangers; but thoroughly competent and thoroughly to be depended on -- those are Pedgift's own words
When Mr. Bashwood comes
will you let me see him, and speak to him, before anything definite is done
Of course I will
And I'll tell you what I'll do for you, old boy, in the meantime
I'll introduce you to the prettiest girl in Norfolk! There's just time to run over to the cottage before dinner. Come along, and be introduced to Miss Milroy
You can't introduce me to Miss Milroy today
I'll show a proper anxiety for Mrs. Milroy's recovery
I'll send her a basket of strawberries, with my best respects, to-morrow morning
Mrs. Milroy's compliments and thanks. Strawberries invariably disagreed with her
Poor little thing
she must have a hard life of it with such a mother as that
had not improved since yesterday
I hardly know how to confess it, Mr. Armadale
but I certainly ventured here this morning in the hope of meeting with you. I have been very much distressed; I have only just heard, by accident, of the manner in which mamma received the present of fruit you so kindly sent to her. Will you try to excuse her? She has been miserably ill for years, and she is not always quite herself. After your being so very, very kind to me (and to papa), I really could not help stealing out here in the hope of seeing you, and telling you how sorry I was. Pray forgive and forget, Mr. Armadale -- pray do
My dear Miss Milroy, if you say a word more you will distress _me_ next
I never was in the least offended; I made allowances -- upon my honor I did -- for poor Mrs. Milroy's illness. Offended
I should like to have my basket of fruit sent back every day -- if I could only be sure of its bringing you out into the paddock the first thing in the morning
Oh, Mr. Armadale, there is really no end to your kindness
Don't you think
that it is almost time now to let go of my hand
I'm sure _that's_ wrong, Mr. Armadale
I meant it as an apology for -- for holding your hand too long
An apology can't be wrong -- can it
I only hope
you're not misleading me. Not that it matters much now
If we have committed any improprieties, Mr. Armadale, we are not likely to have the opportunity of committing many more
You're not going away
Worse than that, Mr. Armadale. My new governess is coming
Coming
Coming already
As good as coming, I ought to have said -- only I didn't know you wished me to be so very particular. We got the answers to the advertisements this morning. Papa and I opened them and read them together half an hour ago; and we both picked out the same letter from all the rest. I picked it out, because it was so prettily expressed; and papa picked it out because the terms were so reasonable. He is going to send the letter up to grandmamma in London by today's post, and, if she finds everything satisfactory on inquiry, the governess is to be engaged You don't know how dreadfully nervous I am getting about it already; a strange governess is such an awful prospect. But it is not quite so bad as going to school; and I have great hopes of this new lady, because she writes such a nice letter! As I said to papa, it almost reconciles me to her horrid, unromantic name
What is her name
Brown? Grubb? Scraggs? Anything of that sort
Won't you shake hands
No more apologies, if you please, Mr. Armadale
It isn't an apology this time
It's -- it's a mark of respect
You won't find me in our grounds again, Mr. Armadale
till I have got Miss Gwilt to take care of me
The question is
whether I hadn't better set myself right with my neighbors by becoming a married man? I'll take the day to consider; and if I keep in the same mind about it, I'll consult Midwinter to-morrow morning
May I come in
Not just now
You have got a letter, haven't you
Any bad news? Anything wrong
Nothing. I'm not very well this morning. Don't wait breakfast for me; I'll come down as soon as I can
What an odd fellow he is
What on earth can he be doing, locked in there by himself
MY DEAR MIDWINTER -- I have literally only two minutes before post time to tell you that I have just met (in Kensington Gardens) with the woman whom we both only know, thus far, as the woman with the red Paisley shawl. I have traced her and her companion (a respectable-looking elderly lady) to their residence -- after having distinctly heard Allan's name mentioned between them. Depend on my not losing sight of the woman until I am satisfied that she means no mischief at Thorpe Ambrose; and expect to hear from me again as soon as I know how this strange discovery is to end. "Very truly yours, DECIMUS BROCK
Your discovery will not end with _you_, Mr. Brock
Do what you will with the woman, when the time comes the woman will be here
MY DEAR LYDIA -- About three hours have passed, as well as I can remember, since I pushed you unceremoniously inside my house in West Place, and, merely telling you to wait till you saw me again, banged the door to between us, and left you alone in the hall. I know your sensitive nature, my dear, and I am afraid you have made up your mind by this time that never yet was a guest treated so abominably by her hostess as I have treated you. "The delay that has prevented me from explaining my strange conduct is, believe me, a delay for which I am not to blame. One of the many delicate little difficulties which beset so essentially confidential a business as mine occurred here (as I have since discovered) while we were taking the air this afternoon in Kensington Gardens. I see no chance of being able to get back to you for some hours to come, and I have a word of very urgent caution for your private ear, which has been too long delayed already. So I must use the spare minutes as they come, and write. 

"Here is caution the first. On no account venture outside the door again this evening, and be very careful, while the daylight lasts, not to show yourself at any of the front windows. I have reason to fear that a certain charming person now staying with me may possibly be watched. Don't be alarmed, and don't be impatient; you shall know why. 

"I can only explain myself by going back to our unlucky meeting in the Gardens with that reverend gentleman who was so obliging as to follow us both back to my house. 

"It crossed my mind, just as we were close to the door, that there might be a motive for the parson's anxiety to trace us home, far less creditable to his taste, and far more dangerous to both of us, than the motive you supposed him to have. In plainer words, Lydia, I rather doubted whether you had met with another admirer; and I strongly suspected that you had encountered another enemy instead . There was no time to tell you this. There was only time to see you safe into the house, and to make sure of the parson (in case my suspicions were right) by treating him as he had treated us; I mean, by following him in his turn. 

"I kept some little distance behind him at first, to turn the thing over in my mind, and to be satisfied that my doubts were not misleading me. We have no concealments from each other; and you shall know what my doubts were. 

"I was not surprised at _your_ recognizing _him_; he is not at all a common-looking old man; and you had seen him twice in Somersetshire -- once when you asked your way of him to Mrs. Armadale's house, and once when you saw him again on your way back to the railroad. But I was a little puzzled (considering that you had your veil down on both those occasions, and your veil down also when we were in the Gardens) at his recognizing _you_. I doubted his remembering your figure in a summer dress after he had only seen it in a winter dress; and though we were talking when he met us, and your voice is one among your many charms, I doubted his remembering your voice, either. And yet I felt persuaded that he knew you. 'How?' you will ask. My dear, as ill-luck would have it, we were speaking at the time of young Armadale. I firmly believe that the name was the first thing that struck him; and when he heard _that_, your voice certainly and your figure perhaps, came back to his memory. 'And what if it did?' you may say. Think again, Lydia, and tell me whether the parson of the place where Mrs. Armadale lived was not likely to be Mrs. Armadale's friend? If he _was_ her friend, the very first person to whom she would apply for advice after the manner in which you frightened her, and after what you most injudiciously said on the subject of appealing to her son, would be the clergyman of the parish -- and the magistrate, too, as the landlord at the inn himself told you. 

"You will now understand why I left you in that extremely uncivil manner, and I may go on to what happened next. 

"I followed the old gentleman till he turned into a quiet street, and then accosted him, with respect for the Church written (I flatter myself) in every line of my face. 

"'Will you excuse me,' I said, 'if I venture to inquire, sir, whether you recognized the lady who was walking with me when you happened to pass us in the Gardens?' 

"'Will you excuse my asking, ma'am, why you put that question?' was all the answer I got. 

"'I will endeavor to tell you, sir,' I said. 'If my friend is not an absolute stranger to you, I should wish to request your attention to a very delicate subject, connected with a lady deceased, and with her son who survives her.' 

"He was staggered; I could see that. But he was sly enough at the same time to hold his tongue and wait till I said something more. 

"'If I am wrong, sir, in thinking that you recognized my friend,' I went on, 'I beg to apologize. But I could hardly suppose it possible that a gentleman in your profession would follow a lady home who was a total stranger to him.' 

"There I had him. He colored up (fancy that, at his age!), and owned the truth, in defense of his own precious character. 

"'I have met with the lady once before, and I acknowledge that I recognized her in the Gardens, ' he said. 'You will excuse me if I decline entering into the question of whether I did or did not purposely follow her home. If you wish to be assured that your friend is not an absolute stranger to me, you now have that assurance; and if you have anything particular to say to me, I leave you to decide whether the time has come to say it.' 

"He waited, and looked about. I waited, and looked about. He said the street was hardly a fit place to speak of a delicate subject in. I said the street was hardly a fit place to speak of a delicate subject in. He didn't offer to take me to where he lived. I didn't offer to take him to where I lived. Have you ever seen two strange cats, my dear, nose to nose on the tiles? If you have, you have seen the parson and me done to the life. 

"'Well, ma'am, ' he said, at last, 'shall we go on with our conversation in spite of circumstances?' 

"'Yes, sir,' I said; 'we are both of us, fortunately, of an age to set circumstances at defiance' (I had seen the old wretch looking at my gray hair, and satisfying himself that his character was safe if he _was_ seen with me). 

"After all this snapping and snarling, we came to the point at last. I began by telling him that I feared his interest in you was not of the friendly sort. He admitted that much -- of course, in defense of his own character once more. I next repeated to him everything you had told me about your proceedings in Somersetshire, when we first found that he was following us home. Don't be alarmed my dear -- I was acting on principle. If you want to make a dish of lies digestible, always give it a garnish of truth. Well, having appealed to the reverend gentleman's confidence in this matter, I next declared that you had become an altered woman since he had seen you last. I revived that dead wretch, your husband (without mentioning names, of course), established him (the first place I thought of) in business at the Brazils, and described a letter which he had written, offering to forgive his erring wife, if she would repent and go back to him. I assured the parson that your husband's noble conduct had softened your obdurate nature; and then, thinking I had produced the right impression, I came boldly to close quarters with him. I said, 'At the very time when you met us, sir, my unhappy friend was speaking in terms of touching, self-reproach of her conduct to the late Mrs. Armadale. She confided to me her anxiety to make some atonement, if possible, to Mrs. Armadale's son; and it is at her entreaty (for she cannot prevail on herself to face you) that I now beg to inquire whether Mr. Armadale is still in Somersetshire, and whether he would consent to take back in small installments the sum of money which my friend acknowledges that she received by practicing on Mrs. Armadale's fears.' Those were my very words. A neater story (accounting so nicely for everything) was never told; it was a story to melt a stone. But this Somersetshire parson is harder than stone itself. I blush for _him_, my dear, when I assure you that he was evidently insensible enough to disbelieve every word I said about your reformed character, your husband in the Brazils, and your penitent anxiety to pay the money back. It is really a disgrace that such a man should be in the Church; such cunning as his is in the last degree unbecoming in a member of a sacred profession. 

"'Does your friend propose to join her husband by the next steamer?' was all he condescended to say, when I had done. 

"I acknowledge I was angry. I snapped at him. I said, 'Yes, she does.' 

"'How am I to communicate with her?' he asked. 

"I snapped at him again. 'By letter -- through me.' 

"'At what address, ma'am?' 

"There, I had him once more. 'You have found my address out for yourself, sir,' I said. 'The directory will tell you my name, if you wish to find that out for yourself also; otherwise, you are welcome to my card.' 

"'Many thanks, ma'am. If your friend wishes to communicate with Mr. Armadale, I will give you _my_ card in return.' 

"'Thank you, sir.' 

"'Thank you, ma'am.' 

"'Good-afternoon, sir.' 

"'Good-afternoon, ma'am.' 

"So we parted. I went my way to an appointment at my place of business, and he went his in a hurry; which is of itself suspicious. What I can't get over is his heartlessness. Heaven help the people who send for _him_ to comfort them on their death-beds! 

"The next consideration is, What are we to do? If we don't find out the right way to keep this old wretch in the dark, he may be the ruin of us at Thorpe Ambrose just as we are within easy reach of our end in view. Wait up till I come to you, with my mind free, I hope, from the other difficulty which is worrying me here. Was there ever such ill luck as ours? Only think of that man deserting his congregation, and coming to London just at the very time when we have answered Major Milroy's advertisement, and may expect the inquiries to be made next week! I have no patience with him; his bishop ought to interfere. 

"Affectionately yours, 

"MARIA OLDERSHAW
West Place, June 20th. "MY POOR OLD DEAR -- How very little you know of my sensitive nature, as you call it! Instead of feeling offended when you left me, I went to your piano, and forgot all about you till your messenger came. Your letter is irresistible; I have been laughing over it till I am quite out of breath. Of all the absurd stories I ever read, the story you addressed to the Somersetshire clergyman is the most ridiculous. And as for your interview with him in the street, it is a perfect sin to keep it to ourselves. The public ought really to enjoy it in the form of a farce at one of the theaters. 

"Luckily for both of us (to come to serious matters), your messenger is a prudent person. He sent upstairs to know if there was an answer. In the midst of my merriment I had presence of mind enough to send downstairs and say 'Yes.' 

"Some brute of a man says, in some book which I once read, that no woman can keep two separate trains of ideas in her mind at the same time. I declare you have almost satisfied me that the man is right. What! when you have escaped unnoticed to your place of business, and when you suspect this house to be watched, you propose to come back here, and to put it in the parson's power to recover the lost trace of you! What madness! Stop where you are; and when you have got over your difficulty at Pimlico (it is some woman's business, of course; what worries women are!), be so good as to read what I have got to say about our difficulty at Brompton. 

"In the first place, the house (as you supposed) is watched. 

"Half an hour after you left me, loud voices in the street interrupted me at the piano, and I went to the window. There was a cab at the house opposite, where they let lodgings; and an old man, who looked like a respectable servant, was wrangling with the driver about his fare. An elderly gentleman came out of the house, and stopped them. An elderly gentleman returned into the house, and appeared cautiously at the front drawing-room window. You know him, you worthy creature; he had the bad taste, some few hours since, to doubt whether you were telling him the truth. Don't be afraid, he didn't see me. When he looked up, after settling with the cab driver, I was behind the curtain. I have been behind the curtain once or twice since; and I have seen enough to satisfy me that he and his servant will relieve each other at the window, so as never to lose sight of your house here, night or day. That the parson suspects the real truth is of course impossible. But that he firmly believes I mean some mischief to young Armadale, and that you have entirely confirmed him in that conviction, is as plain as that two and two make four. And this has happened (as you helplessly remind me) just when we have answered the advertisement, and when we may expect the major's inquiries to be made in a few days' time. 

"Surely, here is a terrible situation for two women to find themselves in? A fiddlestick's end for the situation! We have got an easy way out of it -- thanks, Mother Oldershaw, to what I myself forced you to do, not three hours before the Somersetshire clergyman met with us. 

"Has that venomous little quarrel of ours this morning -- after we had pounced on the major's advertisement in the newspaper -- quite slipped out of your memory? Have you forgotten how I persisted in my opinion that you were a great deal too well known in London to appear safely as my reference in your own name, or to receive an inquiring lady or gentleman (as you were rash enough to propose) in your own house? Don't you remember what a passion you were in when I brought our dispute to an end by declining to stir a step in the matter, unless I could conclude my application to Major Milroy by referring him to an address at which you were totally unknown, and to a name which might be anything you pleased, as long as it was not yours? What a look you gave me when you found there was nothing for it but to drop the whole speculation or to let me have my own way! How you fumed over the lodging hunting on the other side of the Park! and how you groaned when you came back, possessed of furnished apartments in respectable Bayswater, over the useless expense I had put you to! 

"What do you think of those furnished apartments _now_, you obstinate old woman? Here we are, with discovery threatening us at our very door, and with no hope of escape unless we can contrive to disappear from the parson in the dark. And there are the lodgings in Bayswater, to which no inquisitive strangers have traced either you or me, ready and waiting to swallow us up -- the lodgings in which we can escape all further molestation, and answer the major's inquiries at our ease. Can you see, at last, a little further than your poor old nose? Is there anything in the world to prevent your safe disappearance from Pimlico to-night, and your safe establishment at the new lodgings, in the character of my respectable reference, half an hour afterward? Oh, fie, fie, Mother Oldershaw! Go down on your wicked old knees, and thank your stars that you had a she-devil like me to deal with this morning! 

"Suppose we come now to the only difficulty worth mentioning -- _my_ difficulty. Watched as I am in this house, how am I to join you without bringing the parson or the parson's servant with me at my heels? 

"Being to all intents and purposes a prisoner here, it seems to me that I have no choice but to try the old prison plan of escape: a change of clothes. I have been looking at your house-maid. Except that we are both light, her face and hair and my face and hair are as unlike each other as possible. But she is as nearly as can be my height and size; and (if she only knew how to dress herself, and had smaller feet) her figure is a very much better one than it ought to be for a person in her station in life. 

"My idea is to dress her in the clothes I wore in the Gardens to-day; to send her out, with our reverend enemy in full pursuit of her; and, as soon as the coast is clear, to slip away myself and join you. The thing would be quite impossible, of course, if I had been seen with my veil up; but, as events have turned out, it is one advantage of the horrible exposure which followed my marriage that I seldom show myself in public, and never, of course, in such a populous place as London, without wearing a thick veil and keeping that veil down. If the house-maid wears my dress, I don't really see why the house-maid may not be counted on to represent me to the life. 

"The one question is, Can the woman be trusted? If she can, send me a line, telling her, on your authority, that she is to place herself at my disposal. I won't say a word till I have heard from you first. 

"Let me have my answer to-night. As long as we were only talking about my getting the governess's place, I was careless enough how it ended. But now that we have actually answered Major Milroy's advertisement, I am in earnest at last. I mean to be Mrs. Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose; and woe to the man or woman who tries to stop me! Yours, 

"LYDIA GWILT. 

"P.S.-- I open my letter again to say that you need have no fear of your messenger being followed on his return to Pimlico. He will drive to a public-house where he is known, will dismiss the cab at the door, and will go out again by a back way which is only used by the landlord and his friends.-- L. G
I hear you have outnumbered the Strasbourg apostles, and outcrowed the Strasbourg cock
and I am dying, absolutely dying, major, to see your wonderful clock
Excuse me for interrupting you
I happen to have seen the clock at Strasbourg; and it sounds almost absurd in my ears (if you will pardon me for saying so) to put my little experiment in any light of comparison with that wonderful achievement. There is nothing else of the kind like it in the world
Mr. Armadale's kindness has led him to exaggerate a little
But as there does happen to be this one point of resemblance between the great clock abroad and the little clock at home, that they both show what they can do on the stroke of noon, and as it is close on twelve now, if you still wish to visit my workshop, Mr. Midwinter, the sooner I show you the way to it the better
What do you think of my friend
Must I tell you the truth, Mr. Armadale
Of course
Then I don't like him at all
You'll like him better when you know him better -- I'm sure you will
Has he got nothing more interesting to say to me than _that_
after kissing my hand twice yesterday morning
At the first stroke of twelve, Mr. Midwinter
keep your eye on the figure of Time: he will move his scythe, and point it downward to the glass pedestal. You will next see a little printed card appear behind the glass, which will tell you the day of the month and the day of the week. At the last stroke of the clock, Time will lift his scythe again into its former position, and the chimes will ring a peal. The peal will be succeeded by the playing of a tune -- the favorite march of my old regiment -- and then the final performance of the clock will follow. The sentry-boxes, which you may observe at each side, will both open at the same moment. In one of them you will see the sentinel appear; and from the other a corporal and two privates will march across the platform to relieve the guard, and will then disappear, leaving the new sentinel at his post. I must ask your kind allowances for this last part of the performance. The machinery is a little complicated, and there are defects in it which I am ashamed to say I have not yet succeeded in remedying as I could wish. Sometimes the figures go all wrong, and sometimes they go all right. I hope they may do their best on the occasion of your seeing them for the first time
if they would be good enough to tell him whether anything had gone wrong
Good heavens! what has come to you
You had better not have nursed me through my fever
I'm mad and miserable, Allan; I have never recovered it. Go back and ask them to forgive me; I am ashamed to go and ask them myself. I can't tell how it happened; I can only ask your pardon and theirs
Don't stop here
don't look at me; I shall soon get over it
You break my heart with your kindness
For God's sake, leave me by my self
How excessively absurd
As if either papa or I considered such a person of the slightest consequence
You will kindly suspend your opinion, won't you, Major Milroy
And you, too, Miss Milroy
_My_ opinion, Mr. Armadale, is not of the slightest consequence
He had gone out for a long walk, and Mr. Armadale was not to be alarmed if he did not get back till late in the day
a person from Mr. Pedgift's office
Mr. Bashwood's respects, and he would have the honor of waiting on Mr. Armadale again in the course of the evening
The family did what the rest of the gentry did, sir
They gave dinner-parties and balls. And in fine summer weather, sir, like this, they sometimes had lawn-parties and picnics
That'll do
A picnic's just the thing to please her. Richard, you're an invaluable man; you may go downstairs again
DEAR MISS MILROY -- Since I left you it has suddenly struck me that we might have a picnic. A little change and amusement (what I should call a good shaking-up, if I wasn't writing to a young lady) is just the thing for you, after being so long indoors lately in Mrs. Milroy's room. A picnic is a change, and (when the wine is good) amusement, too. Will you ask the major if he will consent to the picnic, and come? And if you have got any friends in the neighborhood who like a picnic, pray ask them too, for I have got none. It shall be your picnic, but I will provide everything and take everybody. You shall choose the day, and we will picnic where you like. I have set my heart on this picnic. "Believe me, ever yours, 

"ALLAN ARMADALE
Picnic' comes in a little too often
Never mind; if she likes the idea, she won't quarrel with that
Papa
papa
The sweetest, dearest letter from _I-know-who_; I'll never behave unkindly to him again as long as I live
Who the devil are you
Who are you
I humbly beg your pardon, sir
The servants told me I should find Mr. Armadale
What, are you Mr. Bashwood
Yes, if you please, sir
I beg your pardon for speaking to you so roughly
but the fact is, you rather startled me. My name is Armadale (put on your hat, pray), and this is my friend, Mr. Midwinter, who wants your help in the steward's office
We hardly stand in need of an introduction
I met Mr. Bashwood out walking a few days since, and he was kind enough to direct me when I had lost my way
Put on your hat
My good sir, put on your hat, and let me show you the way back to the house. Excuse me for noticing it
but you seem a little out of sorts; a glass of good wine will do you no harm before you and my friend come to business. Whereabouts did you meet with Mr. Bashwood, Midwinter, when you lost your way
I am too ignorant of the neighborhood to know. I must refer you to Mr. Bashwood
Come, tell us where it was
It was on the road, sir
sir
I mean, if you please, on the road to Little Gill Beck. A singular name, Mr. Midwinter, and a singular place; I don't mean the village; I mean the neighborhood -- I mean the 'Broads' beyond the neighborhood. Perhaps you may have heard of the Norfolk Broads, sir? What they call lakes in other parts of England, they call Broads here. The Broads are quite numerous; I think they would repay a visit. You would have seen the first of them, Mr. Midwinter, if you had walked on a few miles from where I had the honor of meeting you. Remarkably numerous, the Broads, sir -- situated between this and the sea. About three miles from the sea, Mr. Midwinter -- about three miles. Mostly shallow, sir, with rivers running between them. Beautiful; solitary. Quite a watery country, Mr. Midwinter; quite separate, as it were, in itself. Parties sometimes visit them, sir -- pleasure parties in boats. It's quite a little network of lakes, or, perhaps -- yes, perhaps, more correctly, pools. There is good sport in the cold weather. The wild fowl are quite numerous. Yes; the Broads would repay a visit, Mr. Midwinter. The next time you are walking that way. The distance from here to Little Gill Beck, and then from Little Gill Beck to Girdler Broad, which is the first you come to, is altogether not more
Are the Broads within an easy day's drive there and back from this house
Oh, yes, sir; a nice drive -- quite a nice easy drive from this beautiful place
Whatever else you're afraid of, Mr. Bashwood
don't be afraid of that! There isn't a headache in a hogshead of it! Make yourself comfortable; I'll leave you and Mr. Midwinter to talk your business over by yourselves. It's all in Mr. Midwinter's hands; he acts for me, and settles everything at his own discretion
May I ask
if you have been made acquainted with my position here, and if you know why it is that I require your assistance
Yes, sir
Mr. Pedgift informed me of all -- at least I think I may say so -- of all the circumstances. I am to instruct, or perhaps, I ought to say to advise
No, Mr. Bashwood; the first word was the best word of the two. I am quite ignorant of the duties which Mr. Armadale's kindness has induced him to intrust to me. If I understand right, there can be no question of your capacity to instruct me, for you once filled a steward's situation yourself. May I inquire where it was
At Sir John Mellowship's, sir, in West Norfolk. Perhaps you would like -- I have got it with me -- to see my testimonial? Sir John might have dealt more kindly with me; but I have no complaint to make; it's all done and over now
I am ready to answer any question, sir
Mr. Pedgift told me that I must answer questions, because I was applying for a place of trust. Mr. Pedgift said neither you nor Mr. Armadale was likely to think the testimonial sufficient of itself. Sir John doesn't say -- he might have put it more kindly, but I don't complain -- Sir John doesn't say what the troubles were that lost me my place. Perhaps you might wish to know
If no interests but mine were concerned in the matter
the testimonial would, I assure you, be quite enough to satisfy me. But while I am learning my new duties, the person who teaches me will be really and truly the steward of my friend's estate. I am very unwilling to ask you to speak on what may be a painful subject, and I am sadly inexperienced in putting such questions as I ought to put; but, perhaps, in Mr. Armadale's interests, I ought to know something more, either from yourself, or from Mr. Pedgift, if you prefer it
Mr. Pedgift's time is too valuable, sir, to be wasted on me
I will mention what ought to be mentioned myself -- if you will please to allow me. I have been unfortunate in my family. It is very hard to bear, though it seems not much to tell. My wife
My wife, sir
stood a little in my way; she did me (I am afraid I must confess) some injury with Sir John. Soon after I got the steward's situation, she contracted -- she took -- she fell into habits (I hardly know how to say it) of drinking. I couldn't break her of it, and I couldn't always conceal it from Sir John's knowledge. She broke out, and -- and tried his patience once or twice, when he came to my office on business. Sir John excused it, not very kindly; but still he excused it. I don't complain of Sir John! I don't complain now of my wife
I'm in mourning for her
She died nearly a year ago, in the county asylum here
I'm not much used to wine, sir
I beg, Mr. Bashwood, you will not distress yourself by telling me any more
I'm much obliged to you, sir
But if I don't detain you too long, and if you will please to remember that Mr. Pedgift's directions to me were very particular -- and, besides, I only mentioned my late wife because if she hadn't tried Sir John's patience to begin with, things might have turned out differently
I had only two children, sir
a boy and a girl. The girl died when she was a baby. My son lived to grow up; and it was my son who lost me my place. I did my best for him; I got him into a respectable office in London. They wouldn't take him without security. I'm afraid it was imprudent; but I had no rich friends to help me, and I became security. My boy turned out badly, sir. He -- perhaps you will kindly understand what I mean, if I say he behaved dishonestly. His employers consented, at my entreaty, to let him off without prosecuting. I begged very hard -- I was fond of my son James -- and I took him home, and did my best to reform him. He wouldn't stay with me; he went away again to London; he -- I beg your pardon, sir! I'm afraid I'm confusing things; I'm afraid I'm wandering from the point
No, no
If you think it right to tell me this sad story, tell it in your own way. Have you seen your son since he left you to go to London
No, sir. He's in London still, for all I know. When I last heard of him, he was getting his bread -- not very creditably. He was employed, under the inspector, at the Private Inquiry Office in Shadyside Place
You were telling me
that your son had been the cause of your losing your place. How did that happen
In this way, sir
His employers consented to let him off; but they came down on his security; and I was the man. I suppose they were not to blame; the security covered their loss. I couldn't pay it all out of my savings; I had to borrow -- on the word of a man, sir, I couldn't help it -- I had to borrow. My creditor pressed me; it seemed cruel, but, if he wanted the money, I suppose it was only just. I was sold out of house and home. I dare say other gentlemen would have said what Sir John said; I dare say most people would have refused to keep a steward who had had the bailiffs after him, and his furniture sold in the neighborhood. That was how it ended, Mr. Midwinter. I needn't detain you any longer -- here is Sir John's address, if you wish to apply to him
Thank you kindly, sir
There is nothing more, I think, except -- except that Mr. Pedgift will speak for me, if you wish to inquire into my conduct in his service. I'm very much indebted to Mr. Pedgift; he's a little rough with me sometimes, but, if he hadn't taken me into his office, I think I should have gone to the workhouse when I left Sir John, I was so broken down
I won't intrude any longer, sir. I shall be happy to call again if you wish to have time to consider before you decide
I want no time to consider after what you have told me
To-day is Saturday
Can you come and give me my first lesson on Monday morning? I beg your pardon
there is one thing we ought to settle, ought we not? We haven't spoken yet about your own interest in this matter; I mean, about the terms
Anything, sir -- anything you think right. I won't intrude any longer; I'll leave it to you and Mr. Armadale
I will send for Mr. Armadale, if you like
But I am afraid he has as little experience in matters of this kind as I have. Perhaps, if you see no objection, we might be guided by Mr. Pedgift
Yes, sir -- oh, yes, yes! nobody better than Mr. Pedgift. Don't -- pray don't disturb Mr. Armadale
I wish you kindly good-evening, sir
I'm much obliged to you. I will be scrupulously punctual on Monday morning -- I hope -- I think -- I'm sure you will soon learn everything I can teach you. It's not difficult -- oh dear, no -- not difficult at all! I wish you kindly good-evening, sir. A beautiful night; yes, indeed, a beautiful night for a walk home
Has Mr. Bashwood gone
He has gone
after telling me a very sad story, and leaving me a little ashamed of myself for having doubted him without any just cause. I have arranged that he is to give me my first lesson in the steward's office on Monday morning
All right
You needn't be afraid, old boy, of my interrupting you over your studies. I dare say I'm wrong -- but I don't like Mr. Bashwood
I dare say _I'm_ wrong
I do
MY DEAR MIDWINTER -- I write more for the purpose of quieting your anxiety than because I have anything definite to say. In my last hurried letter I had no time to tell you that the elder of the two women whom I met in the Gardens had followed me, and spoken to me in the street. I believe I may characterize what she said (without doing her any injustice) as a tissue of falsehoods from beginning to end. At any rate, she confirmed me in the suspicion that some underhand proceeding is on foot, of which Allan is destined to be the victim, and that the prime mover in the conspiracy is the vile woman who helped his mother's marriage and who hastened his mother's death. "Feeling this conviction, I have not hesitated to do, for Allan's sake, what I would have done for no other creature in the world. I have left my hotel, and have installed myself (with my old servant Robert) in a house opposite the house to which I traced the two women. We are alternately on the watch (quite unsuspected, I am certain, by the people opposite) day and night. All my feelings, as a gentleman and a clergyman, revolt from such an occupation as I am now engaged in; but there is no other choice. I must either do this violence to my own self-respect, or I must leave Allan, with his easy nature, and in his assailable position, to defend himself against a wretch who is prepared, I firmly believe, to take the most unscrupulous advantage of his weakness and his youth. His mother's dying entreaty has never left my memory; and, God help me, I am now degrading myself in my own eyes in consequence. 

"There has been some reward already for the sacrifice. This day (Saturday) I have gained an immense advantage -- I have at last seen the woman's face. She went out with her veil down as before; and Robert kept her in view, having my instructions, if she returned to the house, not to follow her back to the door. She did return to the house; and the result of my precaution was, as I had expected, to throw her off her guard. I saw her face unveiled at the window, and afterward again in the balcony. If any occasion should arise for describing her particularly, you shall have the description. At present I need only say that she looks the full age (five-and-thirty) at which you estimated her, and that she is by no means so handsome a woman as I had (I hardly know why) expected to see. 

"This is all I can now tell you. If nothing more happens by Monday or Tuesday next, I shall have no choice but to apply to my lawyers for assistance; though I am most unwilling to trust this delicate and dangerous matter in other hands than mine. Setting my own feelings however, out of the question, the business which has been the cause of my journey to London is too important to be trifled with much longer as I am trifling with it now. In any and every case, depend on my keeping you informed of the progress of events, and believe me yours truly, 

"DECIMUS BROCK
How many days more
How many days more
such a misfortune! What _are_ we to do? Papa has got a letter from grandmamma this morning about the new governess. Her reference has answered all the questions, and she's ready to come at the shortest notice. Grandmamma thinks (how provoking!) the sooner the better; and she says we may expect her -- I mean the governess -- either to-day or to-morrow. Papa says (he _will_ be so absurdly considerate to everybody!) that we can't allow Miss Gwilt to come here (if she comes to-day) and find nobody at home to receive her. What is to be done? I am ready to cry with vexation. I have got the worst possible impression (though grandmamma says she is a charming person) of Miss Gwilt. _Can_ you suggest something, dear Mr. Armadale? I'm sure papa would give way if you could. Don't stop to write; send me a message back. I have got a new hat for the picnic; and oh, the agony of not knowing whether I am to keep it on or take it off. Yours truly, E. M
The devil take Miss Gwilt
With all my heart, sir -- I don't wish to interfere
May I ask what's the matter
There's a way out of the difficulty, Mr. Armadale
If the governess comes today, let's have her at the picnic
All the horses and carriages in the Thorpe Ambrose stables are not wanted for this small party of ours
Of course not! Very good. If Miss Gwilt comes to-day, she can't possibly get here before five o'clock. Good again. You order an open carriage to be waiting at the major's door at that time, Mr. Armadale, and I'll give the man his directions where to drive to. When the governess comes to the cottage, let her find a nice little note of apology (along with the cold fowl, or whatever else they give her after her journey) begging her to join us at the picnic, and putting a carriage at her own sole disposal to take her there. Gad, sir
she _must_ be a Touchy One if she thinks herself neglected after that
Capital
She shall have every attention. I'll give her the pony-chaise and the white harness, and she shall drive herself, if she likes
Now we've taken all this trouble about her
I wonder, if she does come today, whether we shall see her at the picnic
Depends, entirely on her age, sir
If she's an old one, she'll be knocked up with the journey, and she'll stick to the cold fowl and the cottage. If she's a young one, either I know nothing of women, or the pony in the white harness will bring her to the picnic
What does my boy say
We shall pass a very interesting place to a military man, sir
the remains of a Roman encampment. And my father, sir, who is a subscriber
wished me to ask your opinion of the new Infant School buildings at Little Gill Beck. Would you kindly give it me as we go along
Yes, beautiful
I see in your face, Mr. Armadale
that you think I have been asleep
He is quite incapable, dear Mrs. Pentecost
of anything so ridiculous as thinking you have been asleep
All I wish Mr. Armadale to know
is, that my head being giddy, I am obliged to close my eyes in a carriage. Closing the eyes, Mr. Armadale, is one thing, and going to sleep is another. Where is my son
Did you enjoy the drive, Sammy
Beautiful scenery, my dear, wasn't it
I'm afraid I'm too old for this sort of thing
I don't find I enjoy it as much as I thought I should. When are we going on the water, I wonder? Where's Neelie
Tell me the truth
When you first knew what my name was, you didn't like it, did you
I like everything that belongs to you
I think Eleanor is a beautiful name; and yet, I don't know why, I think the major made an improvement when he changed it to Neelie
I can tell you why, Mr. Armadale
The name is yours
What name are you thinking of
If I had been a man
I should so like to have been called Allan
How beautiful it is
I wonder how they do it
Call me by my name, if you really like it
Call me 'Allan' for once; just to try
I couldn't just yet
May I call you Neelie? Is it too soon
You know best
Mr. Armadale
Damn it
I've done it, Mr. Armadale
We can all go on the water together; I've got the biggest boat on the Broads. The little skiffs
besides being ticklish and easily upset, won't hold more than two, with the boatman; and the major told me he should feel it his duty to go with his daughter, if we all separated in different boats. I thought _that_ would hardly do, sir
And, besides, if we had put the old lady into a skiff, with her weight (sixteen stone if she's a pound), we might have had her upside down in the water half her time, which would have occasioned delay, and thrown what you call a damp on the proceedings. Here's the boat, Mr. Armadale. What do you think of it
If anything happens
there's one comfort for all of us. My son can swim
Look behind you, Mr. Armadale
I think the parson's beginning to enjoy himself
Even in this scene of tranquillity
the Christian mind -- led, so to speak, from one extreme to another -- is forcibly recalled to the unstable nature of all earthly enjoyments. How if this calm should not last? How if the winds rose and the waters became agitated
You needn't alarm yourself about that, sir
June's the fine season here -- and you can swim
What does my boy say
Ah
He rides the whirlwind, Sammy, and directs the storm
Noble words
Noble and consoling words
I say
if he goes on much longer in that way, what's to be done
I told you, papa, it was a risk to ask them
My dear
We knew nobody else in the neighborhood, and, as Mr. Armadale kindly suggested our bringing our friends, what could we do
We can't upset the boat
It's a lifeboat, unfortunately. May I venture to suggest putting something into the reverend gentleman's mouth, Mr. Armadale? It's close on three o'clock. What do you say to ringing the dinner-bell, sir
Don't laugh at my son
It's my fault, poor dear -- _I_ make him eat
Fond of music on the water, Miss Milroy
We'll get out of the reeds first
Neat, Miss Milroy, isn't it
My name's Augustus, like my father's. Some of my friends knock off the 'A,' and call me 'Gustus Junior.' A small joke goes a long way among friends, doesn't it, Mr. Armadale? I sing a little to my own accompaniment, ladies and gentlemen; and, if quite agreeable, I shall be proud and happy to do my best
Stop
I dote on music
I don't care to use the thing generally
because I'm afraid of its making me deafer than ever. But I can't and won't miss the music. I dote on music. If you'll hold the other end, Sammy, I'll stick it in my ear. Neelie, my dear, tell him to begin
The Death of Marmion
The Bay of Biscay
Tell me when you're tired, ladies and gentlemen
There's no conceit about _me_. Will you have a little sentiment by way of variety? Shall I wind up with 'The Mistletoe Bough' and 'Poor Mary Anne
Go on, somebody
I tell you again, I dote on music. We haven't had half enough yet, have we, Sammy
Do sing something, Mr. Armadale
I should so like to hear you
If you once begin, sir
you'll find it get uncommonly easy as you go on. Music is a science which requires to be taken by the throat at starting
With all my heart
I know lots of tunes, but the worst of it is, the words escape me. I wonder if I can remember one of Moore's Melodies? My poor mother used to be fond of teaching me Moore's Melodies when I was a boy
Whose melodies
Moore's? Aha! I know Tom Moore by heart
Perhaps in that case you will he good enough to help me, ma'am, if my memory breaks down
I'm familiar, in a general sort of way, with the national melodies of England, Scotland, and Ireland
I'll accompany you, sir, with the greatest pleasure. This is the sort of thing, I think
That's the sort of thing
Fire away, sir
Oh, weep for the hour when to Eveleen's Bower
It's a most extraordinary thing
The lord of the valley with false vows came
Thank you, ma'am
Now I shall get on smoothly. 'Oh, weep for the hour when to Eveleen's Bower, the lord of the valley with false vows came. The moon was shining bright
No
I beg your pardon, ma'am
The moon wasn't doing anything of the kind
Moore's own words, ma'am
in my mother's copy of the Melodies
Your mother's copy was wrong
Didn't I tell you just now that I knew Tom Moore by heart
Well, what _did_ the moon do
What the moon _ought_ to have done, sir, or Tom Moore wouldn't have written it so
The moon hid her light from the heaven that night, and wept behind her clouds o'er the maiden's shame!' I wish that young man would leave off playing
I've had enough of him -- he tickles my ears
Proud, I'm sure, ma'am
The whole science of music consists in tickling the ears
We seem to be drifting into a sort of argument
Wouldn't it be better if Mr. Armadale went on with his song
Do go on, Mr. Armadale
Do go on, Mr. Pedgift
One of them doesn't know the words, and the other doesn't know the music
Let them go on if they can
Sorry to disappoint you, ma'am
I'm ready to go on myself to any extent. Now, Mr. Armadale
What's the matter
I am exceedingly unwell
Rub it gently, Sammy
I'll get out the bottles and give you a dose. It's his poor stomach, major. Hold my trumpet, somebody -- and stop the boat. You take that bottle, Neelie, my dear; and you take this one, Mr. Armadale; and give them to me as I want them. Ah, poor dear, I know what's the matter with him! Want of power _here_, major -- cold, acid, and flabby. Ginger to warm him; soda to correct him; sal volatile to hold him up. There, Sammy! drink it before it settles; and then go and lie down, my dear, in that dog-kennel of a place they call the cabin. No more music
unless it's a hymn, and that I don't object to
What do you say, ladies and gentlemen, to stepping on shore and seeing what a reed-cutter's cottage looks like
We say yes, to be sure
I think our spirits have been a little dashed by Mr. Pentecost's illness and Mrs. Pentecost's bag
A change of this sort is the very thing we want to set us all going again
We must keep the fun going, sir
We haven't half done yet with the enjoyment of the day
Ah
if you were as old as I am, young gentleman, you wouldn't feel quite so sure of the enjoyment of the day
I don't wish to hurry you, Mr. Armadale
but the time is getting on, and there's a lady in the case
A lady
Yes, sir
A lady from London; connected (if you'll allow me to jog your memory) with a pony-chaise and white harness
Good heavens, the governess
Why, we have forgotten all about her
Don't be alarmed, sir; there's plenty of time, if we only get into the boat again. This is how it stands, Mr. Armadale. We settled, if you remember, to have the gypsy tea-making at the next 'Broad' to this -- Hurle Mere
Certainly
Hurle Mere is the place where my friend Midwinter has promised to come and meet us
Hurle Mere is where the governess will be, sir, if your coachman follows my directions
We have got nearly an hour's punting to do, along the twists and turns of the narrow waters (which they call The Sounds here) between this and Hurle Mere; and according to my calculations we must get on board again in five minutes, if we are to be in time to meet the governess and to meet your friend
We mustn't miss my friend on any account
or the governess, either, of course. I'll tell the major
Dear old fellow
I shall be so glad to see him at the Mere; the day's pleasure won't be complete till he joins us
Should I be right or wrong, Mr. Armadale, if I guessed that you were thinking of somebody
You know everything
I _was_ thinking of somebody
I have been thinking of somebody, too
If I tell you the first letter of my Somebody's name, will you tell me the first letter of yours
I will tell you anything you like
Tell me your letter first
M
is my first letter
What is your letter
A -- if you will have it
How many syllables is the name in
It's a name in three syllables
Three
I'm not strong at my spelling, I know
But I don't think I'm wrong, in calling Midwinter a name in three syllables. I was thinking of my friend; but never mind my thoughts. Tell me who A is -- tell me whom _you_ were thinking of
Of the first letter of the alphabet, Mr. Armadale, and I beg positively to inform you of nothing more
What on earth have I done
I wonder what she'll say to me next
I'll never forgive him
To be thinking of that ill-bred wretch when I was thinking of _him_; and to make me all but confess it before I found him out! Thank Heaven, Mr. Pedgift is in the boat
Oh, Mr. Pedgift, how extremely clever and kind of you to think of showing us that sweet cottage! Lonely, Mr. Armadale? I don't think it's lonely at all; I should like of all things to live there. What would this picnic have been without you, Mr. Pedgift; you can't think how I have enjoyed it since we got into the boat. Cool, Mr. Armadale? What can you possibly mean by saying it's cool; it's the warmest evening we've had this summer. And the music, Mr. Pedgift; how nice it was of you to bring your concertina! I wonder if I could accompany you on the piano? I would so like to try. Oh, yes, Mr. Armadale, no doubt you meant to do something musical, too, and I dare say you sing very well when you know the words; but, to tell you the truth, I always did, and always shall, hate Moore's Melodies
Thanks, no; it might get me into a scrape
You're a very nice girl
but a client's a client; and I am sorry to inform you, miss, it won't do
Something new, I should think, to you, sir, in a sailing match on fresh water
Quite new. Do tell me about it
This
is what you call a day's pleasure, is it? Ah, what fools we all were to leave our comfortable homes
A trifle dreary hereabouts, Mr. Armadale
But we are just out of it now. Look ahead, sir! Here we are at Hurle Mere
You may, or may not, see the governess when you get back to Thorpe Ambrose
but, as the time stands now, you won't see her here. You know best, Mr. Armadale
whether your friend is to be depended on to keep his appointment
I am certain he is to be depended on
Very good
If we light the fire for our gypsy tea-making on the open ground there, your friend may find us out, sir, by the smoke. That's the Indian dodge for picking up a lost man on the prairie, Miss Milroy and it's pretty nearly wild enough (isn't it?) to be a prairie here
I think it's the most lonely, dreary, hideous place I ever saw in my life
If you insist on making tea here, Mr. Pedgift, don't make any for me. No! I shall stop in the boat; and, though I am absolutely dying with thirst, I shall touch nothing till we get back again to the other Broad
Call me a boat
Wherever there's water, there's a night mist, and wherever there's a night mist, my son Samuel catches cold. Don't talk to _me_ about your moonlight and your tea-making -- you're all mad! Hi! you two men there
Sixpence apiece for you, if you'll take me and my son back in your boat
I can't think, Mrs. Pentecost, of your going back in any boat but the boat you have come out in
There is not the least need (as you and Miss Milroy don't like the place) for anybody to go on shore here but me. I _must_ go on shore. My friend Midwinter never broke his promise to me yet; and I can't consent to leave Hurle Mere as long as there is a chance of his keeping his appointment. But there's not the least reason in the world why I should stand in the way on that account. You have the major and Mr. Pedgift to take care of you; and you can get back to the carriages before dark, if you go at once. I will wait here, and give my friend half an hour more, and then I can follow you in one of the reed-cutters' boats
That's the most sensible thing, Mr. Armadale, you've said to-day
Tell them to be quick
We can't leave you here alone, sir
Let the major take care of the ladies, and let me keep you company at the Mere
No, no
They're all in low spirits on board. If you want to be of service to me, stop like a good fellow where you are, and do your best to keep the thing going
How good he is to us all
and what a wretch I am
Don't be long, Mr. Armadale
She might have said a word to me at parting
I've done everything for the best; I've as good as told her how fond of her I am, and this is the way she treats me
Midwinter
This is not the place where I was to meet you! What are you waiting for here
Did you come here by yourself
I thought the boy was to guide you
When we got as far as these trees
I sent the boy back. He told me I was close to the place, and couldn't miss it
What made you stop here when he left you
Why didn't you walk on
Don't despise me
I hadn't the courage
Not the courage
Oh, I know
You're still shy of the Milroys. What nonsense, when I told you myself that your peace was made at the cottage
I wasn't thinking, Allan, of your friends at the cottage. The truth is, I'm hardly myself to-day. I am ill and unnerved; trifles startle me
If you _will_ have it
the horror of that night on board the Wreck has got me again; there's a dreadful oppression on my head; there's a dreadful sinking at my heart. I am afraid of something happening to us, if we don't part before the day is out. I can't break my promise to you; for God's sake, release me from it, and let me go back
Come out of this dark, airless place
and we will talk about it. The water and the open sky are within a stone's throw of us. I hate a wood in the evening; it even gives _me_ the horrors. You have been working too hard over the steward's books. Come and breathe freely in the blessed open air
You're right
and I'm wrong, as usual. I'm wasting time and distressing you to no purpose. What folly to ask you to let me go back! Suppose you had said yes
Well
Well
something would have happened at the first step to stop me, that's all. Come on
Good God
you look as you looked on board the Wreck
You remember how I _looked_
Do you remember what I _said_ when you and the doctor were talking of the Dream
I have forgotten the Dream
Do you remember it now
Your own eyes have seen it
Now look at our own words
The sense came to me of being left alone in the darkness. "I waited. 

"The darkness opened, and showed me the vision -- as in a picture -- of a broad, lonely pool, surrounded by open ground. Above the further margin of the pool I saw the cloudless western sky, red with the light of sunset. 

"On the near margin of the pool there stood the Shadow of a Woman
There
stands the living Woman, in the Shadow's place! There speaks the first of the dream warnings to you and to me! Let the future time find us still together, and the second figure that stands in the Shadow's place will be Mine
What nonsense have you been talking
And what nonsense have I been listening to! It's the governess at last
One of us must speak to her
And if you won't, I will
Was that you, Midwinter
May I ask
if I have the pleasure
Major Milroy's governess
Miss Gwilt
For Allan's sake
For Allan's sake
Go, if you must and will! but remember the time when you were ill, and he sat by your bedside; friendless, and he opened his heart to you -- and write, if you fear to speak; write and ask him to forgive you, before you leave him forever
When Mr. Armadale returns
ask him to excuse my coming downstairs, and say that I am trying to get to sleep
The night will keep us apart
and time may help me to write. I may go in the early morning; I may go while
There's a screw loose somewhere, sir, in Major Milroy's family
Did you notice how the major and his daughter looked when Miss Gwilt made her excuses for being late at the Mere? You don't remember? Do you remember what Miss Gwilt said
Something about Mrs. Milroy, wasn't it
Miss Gwilt reached the cottage this afternoon, sir, at the time when I told you she would reach it, and she would have joined us at the time I told you she would come, but for Mrs. Milroy. Mrs. Milroy sent for her upstairs as soon as she entered the house, and kept her upstairs a good half-hour and more. That was Miss Gwilt's excuse, Mr. Armadale, for being late at the Mere
Well, and what then
You seem to forget, sir, what the whole neighborhood has heard about Mrs. Milroy ever since the major first settled among us. We have all been told, on the doctor's own authority, that she is too great a sufferer to see strangers. Isn't it a little odd that she should have suddenly turned out well enough to see Miss Gwilt (in her husband's absence) the moment Miss Gwilt entered the house
Not a bit of it! Of course she was anxious to make acquaintance with her daughter's governess
Likely enough, Mr. Armadale. But the major and Miss Neelie don't see it in that light, at any rate. I had my eye on them both when the governess told them that Mrs. Milroy had sent for her. If ever I saw a girl look thoroughly frightened, Miss Milroy was that girl; and (if I may be allowed, in the strictest confidence, to libel a gallant soldier) I should say that the major himself was much in the same condition. Take my word for it, sir, there's something wrong upstairs in that pretty cottage of yours; and Miss Gwilt is mixed up in it already
sweetheart
I ventured to disturb you, sir
because the letter is marked 'Immediate,' and I didn't know but it might be of some consequence
Tuesday. "MY DEAR MIDWINTER -- It is sometimes best to tell bad news plainly, in few words. Let me tell mine at once, in one sentence. My precautions have all been defeated: the woman has escaped me. 

"This misfortune -- for it is nothing less -- happened yesterday (Monday). Between eleven and twelve in the forenoon of that day, the business which originally brought me to London obliged me to go to Doctors' Commons, and to leave my servant Robert to watch the house opposite our lodging until my return. About an hour and a half after my departure he observed an empty cab drawn up at the door of the house. Boxes and bags made their appearance first; they were followed by the woman herself, in the dress I had first seen her in. Having previously secured a cab, Robert traced her to the terminus of the North-Western Railway, saw her pass through the ticket office, kept her in view till she reached the platform, and there, in the crowd and confusion caused by the starting of a large mixed train, lost her. I must do him the justice to say that he at once took the right course in this emergency. Instead of wasting time in searching for her on the platform, he looked along the line of carriages; and he positively declares that he failed to see her in any one of them. He admits, at the same time, that his search (conducted between two o'clock, when he lost sight of her, and ten minutes past, when the train started) was, in the confusion of the moment, necessarily an imperfect one. But this latter circumstance, in my opinion, matters little. I as firmly disbelieve in the woman's actual departure by that train as if I had searched every one of the carriages myself; and you, I have no doubt, will entirely agree with me. 

"You now know how the disaster happened. Let us not waste time and words in lamenting it. The evil is done, and you and I together must find the way to remedy it. 

"What I have accomplished already, on my side, may be told in two words. Any hesitation I might have previously felt at trusting this delicate business in strangers' hands was at an end the moment I heard Robert's news. I went back at once to the city, and placed the whole matter confidentially before my lawyers. The conference was a long one, and when I left the office it was past the post hour, or I should have written to you on Monday instead of writing today. My interview with the lawyers was not very encouraging. They warn me plainly that serious difficulties stand in the way of our recovering the lost trace. But they have promised to do their best, and we have decided on the course to be taken, excepting one point on which we totally differ. I must tell you what this difference is; for, while business keeps me away from Thorpe Ambrose, you are the only person whom I can trust to put my convictions to the test. 

"The lawyers are of opinion, then, that the woman has been aware from the first that I was watching her; that there is, consequently, no present hope of her being rash enough to appear personally at Thorpe Ambrose; that any mischief she may have it in contemplation to do will be done in the first instance by deputy; and that the only wise course for Allan's friends and guardians to take is to wait passively till events enlighten them. My own idea is diametrically opposed to this. After what has happened at the railway, I cannot deny that the woman must have discovered that I was watching her. But she has no reason to suppose that she has not succeeded in deceiving me; and I firmly believe she is bold enough to take us by surprise, and to win or force her way into Allan's confidence before we are prepared to prevent her. 

"You and you only (while I am detained in London) can decide whether I am right or wrong -- and you can do it in this way. Ascertain at once whether any woman who is a stranger in the neighborhood has appeared since Monday last at or near Thorpe Ambrose. If any such person has been observed (and nobody escapes observation in the country), take the first opportunity you can get of seeing her, and ask yourself if her face does or does not answer certain plain questions which I am now about to write down for you. You may depend on my accuracy. I saw the woman unveiled on more than one occasion, and the last time through an excellent glass. 

"1. Is her hair light brown, and (apparently) not very plentiful? 2. Is her forehead high, narrow, and sloping backward from the brow? 3. Are her eyebrows very faintly marked, and are her eyes small, and nearer dark than light -- either gray or hazel (I have not seen her close enough to be certain which)? 4. Is her nose aquiline? 5 Are her lips thin, and is the upper lip long? 6. Does her complexion look like an originally fair complexion, which has deteriorated into a dull, sickly paleness? 7 (and lastly). Has she a retreating chin, and is there on the left side of it a mark of some kind -- a mole or a scar, I can't say which? 

"I add nothing about her expression, for you may see her under circumstances which may partially alter it as seen by me. Test her by her features, which no circumstances can change. If there is a stranger in the neighborhood, and if her face answers my seven questions, _you have found the woman_! Go instantly, in that case, to the nearest lawyer, and pledge my name and credit for whatever expenses may be incurred in keeping her under inspection night and day. Having done this, take the speediest means of communicating with me; and whether my business is finished or not, I will start for Norfolk by the first train. 

"Always your friend, DECIMUS BROCK
I owe much to Mr. Brock's kindness
and I shall never see Mr. Brock again. It is useless and hopeless; but he asks me to do it, and it shall be done. A moment's look at her will be enough -- a moment's look at her with his letter in my hand -- and a line to tell him that the woman is here
I will write the two together
One may help the other
A friend of yours, Miss Milroy
He is a friend of Mr. Armadale's
I don't know what he wants, or why he is here
A friend of Mr. Armadale's
For my part
I think it a great liberty to treat papa's garden as if it were the open park
My dear Miss Milroy
there are certain distinctions to be observed. This gentleman is a friend of Mr. Armadale's. You could hardly express yourself more strongly if he was a perfect stranger
I express my opinion
It's a matter of taste, Miss Gwilt; and tastes differ
She is very young
and, as you must see for yourself, sir, she is a spoiled child
As you have extended your walk thus far
perhaps you will kindly favor me, on your return, by taking a message to your friend? Mr. Armadale has been so good as to invite me to see the Thorpe Ambrose gardens this morning. Will you say that Major Milroy permits me to accept the invitation (in company with Miss Milroy) between ten and eleven o'clock
If the thought of leaving him breaks my heart, the thought of leaving him is wrong
But for this morsel of paper
my life might have been one long sorrow to me, and my father's crime might have parted us forever
P. S.-- I have just heard from the lawyers. They have found out the name the woman passed by in London. If this discovery (not a very important one, I am afraid) suggests any new course of proceeding to you, pray act on it at once. The name is -- Miss Gwilt
Diana Street, Pimlico, Monday. "MY DEAR LYDIA -- I am in no state of mind to write you an amusing letter. Your news is very discouraging, and the recklessness of your tone quite alarms me. Consider the money I have already advanced, and the interests we both have at stake. Whatever else you are, don't be reckless, for Heaven's sake! 

"What can I do? I ask myself, as a woman of business, what can I do to help you? I can't give you advice, for I am not on the spot, and I don't know how circumstances may alter from one day to another. Situated as we are now, I can only be useful in one way. I can discover a new obstacle that threatens you, and I think I can remove it. 

"You say, with great truth, that there never was a prospect yet without an ugly place in it, and that there are two ugly places in your prospect. My dear, there may be _three_ ugly places, if I don't bestir myself to prevent it; and the name of the third place will be -- Brock! Is it possible you can refer, as you have done, to the Somersetshire clergyman, and not see that the progress you make with young Armadale will be, sooner or later, reported to him by young Armadale's friend? Why, now I think of it, you are doubly at the parson's mercy! You are at the mercy of any fresh suspicion which may bring him into the neighborhood himself at a day's notice; and you are at the mercy of his interference the moment he hears that the squire is committing himself with a neighbor's governess. If I can do nothing else, I can keep this additional difficulty out of your way. And oh, Lydia, with what alacrity I shall exert myself, after the manner in which the old wretch insulted me when I told him that pitiable story in the street! I declare I tingle with pleasure at this new prospect of making a fool of Mr. Brock. 

"And how is it to be done? Just as we have done it already, to be sure. He has lost 'Miss Gwilt' (otherwise my house-maid), hasn't he? Very well. He shall find her again, wherever he is now, suddenly settled within easy reach of him. As long as _she_ stops in the place, _he_ will stop in it; and as we know he is not at Thorpe Ambrose, there you are free of him! The old gentleman's suspicions have given us a great deal of trouble so far. Let us turn them to some profitable account at last; let us tie him, by his suspicions, to my house-maid's apron-string. Most refreshing. Quite a moral retribution, isn't it? 

"The only help I need trouble you for is help you can easily give. Find out from Mr. Midwinter where the parson is now, and let me know by return of post. If he is in London, I will personally assist my housemaid in the necessary mystification of him. If he is anywhere else, I will send her after him, accompanied by a person on whose discretion I can implicitly rely. 

"You shall have the sleeping drops to-morrow. In the meantime, I say at the end what I said at the beginning -- no recklessness. Don't encourage poetical feelings by looking at the stars; and don't talk about the night being awfully quiet. There are people (in observatories) paid to look at the stars for you; leave it to them. And as for the night, do what Providence intended you to do with the night when Providence provided you with eyelids -- go to sleep in it. Affectionately yours, 

"MARIA OLDERSHAW
Bascombe Rectory, West Somerset, Thursday, July 8. "MY DEAR MIDWINTER -- One line before the post goes out, to relieve you of all sense of responsibility at Thorpe Ambrose, and to make my apologies to the lady who lives as governess in Major Milroy's family. 

"_The_ Miss Gwilt -- or perhaps I ought to say, the woman calling herself by that name -- has, to my unspeakable astonishment, openly made her appearance here, in my own parish! She is staying at the inn, accompanied by a plausible-looking man, who passes as her brother. What this audacious proceeding really means -- unless it marks a new step in the conspiracy against Allan, taken under new advice -- is, of course, more than I can yet find out. 

"My own idea is, that they have recognized the impossibility of getting at Allan, without finding me (or you) as an obstacle in their way; and that they are going to make a virtue of necessity by boldly trying to open their communications through me. The man looks capable of any stretch of audacity; and both he and the woman had the impudence to bow when I met them in the village half an hour since. They have been making inquiries already about Allan's mother here, where her exemplary life may set their closest scrutiny at defiance. If they will only attempt to extort money, as the price of the woman's silence on the subject of poor Mrs. Armadale's conduct in Madeira at the time of her marriage, they will find me well prepared for them beforehand. I have written by this post to my lawyers to send a competent man to assist me, and he will stay at the rectory, in any character which he thinks it safest to assume under present circumstances. 

"You shall hear what happens in the next day or two. 

"Always truly yours, DECIMUS BROCK
From my father
To my son
Will you trust me in the future? Will you forgive and forget the past
My one motive for not telling you this before sprang from my dread of interesting you in the room which I looked at with horror as the second of the scenes pointed at in the Dream. Forgive me this also, and you will have forgiven me all
How late you are
Was there a party at the cottage
No! only ourselves. The time slipped away somehow
You seem to be out of spirits
What's the matter
I may as well tell you
It's nothing to be ashamed of; I only wonder you haven't noticed it before! There's a woman in it, as usual -- I'm in love
Has Miss Milroy been more charming to-night than ever
Miss Milroy
What are you thinking of! I'm not in love with Miss Milroy
Who is it, then
Who is it! What a question to ask! Who can it be but Miss Gwilt
I suppose you don't approve of it
It's too late to make objections
I really mean it when I tell you I'm in love with her
A fortnight since you were in love with Miss Milroy
Pooh! a mere flirtation. It's different this time. I'm in earnest about Miss Gwilt
I see you don't approve of the thing
Do you object to her being only a governess? You can't do that, I'm sure. If you were in my place, her being only a governess wouldn't stand in the way with _you_
No
I can't honestly say it would stand in the way with me
A governess is a lady who is not rich
and a duchess is a lady who is not poor. And that's all the difference I acknowledge between them. Miss Gwilt is older than I am -- I don't deny that. What age do you guess her at, Midwinter? I say, seven or eight and twenty. What do you say
Nothing. I agree with you
Do you think seven or eight and twenty is too old for me? If you were in love with a woman yourself, you wouldn't think seven or eight and twenty too old -- would you
I can't say I should think it too old, if
If you were really fond of her
Well
if there's no harm in her being only a governess, and no harm in her being a little older than I am, what's the objection to Miss Gwilt
I have made no objection
I don't say you have. But you don't seem to like the notion of it, for all that
Are you sure of yourself, Allan
Are you really attached to this lady? Have you thought seriously already of asking her to be your wife
I am thinking seriously of it at this moment
I can't be happy -- I can't live without her. Upon my soul, I worship the very ground she treads on
How long
How long
have you worshipped the very ground she treads on
Longer than you think for. I know I can trust you with all my secrets
Don't trust me
Nonsense! I _will_ trust you. There is a little difficulty in the way which I haven't mentioned yet. It's a matter of some delicacy, and I want to consult you about it. Between ourselves, I have had private opportunities with Miss Gwilt
We'll talk of this to-morrow
Good-night
He has never shaken hands with me
We haven't shaken hands
God bless you, Allan! We'll talk of it to-morrow. Good-night
Midwinter's ways get stranger and stranger
What can he mean by putting me off till to-morrow, when I wanted to speak to him to-night
I wonder if she's thinking of me
Make your mind easy. I have got him
I am afraid you thought me very impatient and very abrupt with you last night
I will try to make amends for it this morning. I will hear everything you wish to say to me on the subject of Miss Gwilt
I hardly like to worry you
You look as if you had had a bad night's rest
I have not slept well for some time past
Something has been wrong with me. But I believe I have found out the way to put myself right again without troubling the doctors. Late in the morning I shall have something to say to you about this. Let us get back first to what you were talking of last night. You were speaking of some difficulty
Perhaps it would be better
if, instead of speaking to me, you spoke to Mr. Brock
I would rather speak to _you_
But tell me first, was I right or wrong last night in thinking you disapproved of my falling in love with Miss Gwilt
If you have any objection
I should like to hear it
You love her
Does _she_ love _you_
You won't think me vain
I told you yesterday I had had private opportunities with her
I understand
You were wrong last night. I had no objections to make
Don't you congratulate me
Such a beautiful woman! such a clever woman
I owe you more than mere congratulations
In anything which is for your happiness I owe you help
Can I help you
My dear fellow
what is the matter with you? Your hand is as cold as ice
I am always in extremes
my hand was as hot as fire the first time you took it at the old west-country inn. Come to that difficulty which you have not come to yet. You are young, rich, your own master -- and she loves you. What difficulty can there be
I hardly know how to put it
As you said just now, I love her, and she loves me; and yet there is a sort of strangeness between us. One talks a good deal about one's self when one is in love, at least I do. I've told her all about myself and my mother, and how I came in for this place, and the rest of it. Well -- though it doesn't strike me when we are together -- it comes across me now and then, when I'm away from her, that she doesn't say much on her side. In fact, I know no more about her than you do
Do you mean that you know nothing about Miss Gwilt's family and friends
That's it, exactly
Have you never asked her about them
I said something of the sort the other day
and I'm afraid, as usual, I said it in the wrong way. She looked -- I can't quite tell you how; not exactly displeased, but -- oh, what things words are! I'd give the world, Midwinter, if I could only find the right word when I want it as well as you do
Did Miss Gwilt say anything to you in the way of a reply
That's just what I was coming to. She said, 'I shall have a melancholy story to tell you one of these days, Mr. Armadale, about myself and my family; but you look so happy, and the circumstances are so distressing, that I have hardly the heart to speak of it now.' Ah, _she_ can express herself -- with the tears in her eyes, my dear fellow, with the tears in her eyes! Of course, I changed the subject directly. And now the difficulty is how to get back to it, delicately, without making her cry again. We _must_ get back to it, you know. Not on my account; I am quite content to marry her first and hear of her family misfortunes, poor thing, afterward. But I know Mr. Brock. If I can't satisfy him about her family when I write to tell him of this (which, of course, I must do), he will be dead against the whole thing. I'm my own master, of course, and I can do as I like about it. But dear old Brock was such a good friend to my poor mother, and he has been such a good friend to me -- you see what I mean, don't you
Certainly, Allan; Mr. Brock has been your second father. Any disagreement between you about such a serious matter as this would be the saddest thing that could happen. You ought to satisfy him that Miss Gwilt is (what I am sure Miss Gwilt will prove to be) worthy, in every way worthy
Just my feeling in the matter
Now we can come to what I particularly wanted to consult you about. If this was your case, Midwinter, you would be able to say the right words to her -- you would put it delicately, even though you were putting it quite in the dark. I can't do that. I'm a blundering sort of fellow; and I'm horribly afraid, if I can't get some hint at the truth to help me at starting, of saying something to distress her. Family misfortunes are such tender subjects to touch on, especially with such a refined woman, such a tender-hearted woman, as Miss Gwilt. There may have been some dreadful death in the family -- some relation who has disgraced himself -- some infernal cruelty which has forced the poor thing out on the world as a governess. Well, turning it over in my mind, it struck me that the major might be able to put me on the right tack. It is quite possible that he might have been informed of Miss Gwilt's family circumstances before he engaged her, isn't it
It is possible, Allan, certainly
Just my feeling again! My notion is to speak to the major. If I could only get the story from him first, I should know so much better how to speak to Miss Gwilt about it afterward. You advise me to try the major, don't you
I hardly know how to advise you, Allan
This is a very delicate matter
I believe you would try the major, if you were in my place
Perhaps I might
But if I did speak to the major, I should be very careful, in your place, not to put myself in a false position. I should be very careful to let no one suspect me of the meanness of prying into a woman's secrets behind her back
Good heavens, Midwinter
who could suspect me of that
Nobody, Allan, who really knows you
The major knows me. The major is the last man in the world to misunderstand me. All I want him to do is to help me (if he can) to speak about a delicate subject to Miss Gwilt, without hurting her feelings. Can anything be simpler between two gentlemen
Do you mean to tell Major Milroy
what your intentions really are toward Miss Gwilt
I have been thinking of that
and I mean to feel my way first, and then tell him or not afterward, as matters turn out
You forget that foolish flirtation of mine with Miss Milroy
The major may have noticed it, and may have thought I meant -- well, what I didn't mean. It might be rather awkward, mightn't it, to propose to his face for his governess instead of his daughter
Come! come
don't sit there looking unutterable things; don't make mountains out of mole-hills. You have such an old, old head, Midwinter, on those young shoulders of yours! Let's have done with all these _pros_ and _cons_. Do you mean to tell me in plain words that it won't do to speak to the major
I can't take the responsibility, Allan, of telling you that. To be plainer still, I can't feel confident of the soundness of any advice I may give you in -- in our present position toward each other. All I am sure of is that I cannot possibly be wrong in entreating you to do two things
What are they
If you speak to Major Milroy, pray remember the caution I have given you! Pray think of what you say before you say it
I'll think, never fear! What next
Before you take any serious step in this matter, write and tell Mr. Brock. Will you promise me to do that
With all my heart. Anything more
Nothing more. I have said my last words
Come into my room
and I'll give you a cigar. The servants will be in here directly to clear away, and I want to go on talking about Miss Gwilt
Don't wait for me
I'll follow you in a minute or two
Can you trust yourself to see her, day by day as you must see her -- can you trust yourself to hear him talk of her, hour by hour, as you must hear him -- if you stay in this house
I must go
before she comes to the house again. I must go before another hour is over my head
Good heavens
what does _that_ mean
Nothing very extraordinary
It only means -- good-by
Good-by
When you noticed that I looked ill this morning
I told you that I had been thinking of a way to recover my health, and that I meant to speak to you about it later in the day. That latter time has come. I have been out of sorts, as the phrase is, for some time past. You have remarked it yourself, Allan, more than once; and, with your usual kindness, you have allowed it to excuse many things in my conduct which would have been otherwise unpardonable, even in your friendly eyes
My dear fellow
you don't mean to say you are going out on a walking tour in this pouring rain
Never mind the rain
The rain and I are old friends. You know something, Allan, of the life I led before you met with me. From the time when I was a child, I have been used to hardship and exposure. Night and day, sometimes for months together, I never had my head under a roof. For years and years, the life of a wild animal -- perhaps I ought to say, the life of a savage -- was the life I led, while you were at home and happy. I have the leaven of the vagabond -- the vagabond animal, or the vagabond man, I hardly know which -- in me still. Does it distress you to hear me talk of myself in this way? I won't distress you. I will only say that the comfort and the luxury of our life here are, at times, I think, a little too much for a man to whom comforts and luxuries come as strange things. I want nothing to put me right again but more air and exercise; fewer good breakfasts and dinners, my dear friend, than I get here. Let me go back to some of the hardships which this comfortable house is expressly made to shut out. Let me meet the wind and weather as I used to meet them when I was a boy; let me feel weary again for a little while, without a carriage near to pick me up; and hungry when the night falls, with miles of walking between my supper and me. Give me a week or two away, Allan -- up northward, on foot, to the Yorkshire moors -- and I promise to return to Thorpe Ambrose, better company for you and for your friends. I shall be back before you have time to miss me. Mr. Bashwood will take care of the business in the office; it is only for a fortnight, and it is for my own good -- let me go
I don't like it
I don't like your leaving me in this sudden manner. There's something so strange and dreary about it. Why not try riding, if you want more exercise; all the horses in the stables are at your disposal. At all events, you can't possibly go to-day. Look at the rain
I thought nothing of the rain
But you're not in the Hebrides now
and I expect our friends from the cottage to-morrow evening. You can't start till after to-morrow. Miss Gwilt is going to give us some more music, and you know you like Miss Gwilt's playing
Give me another chance of hearing Miss Gwilt when I come back
You have one fault, my dear fellow, and it grows on you
when you have once taken a thing into our head, you're the most obstinate man alive. There's no persuading you to listen to reason. If you _will_ go
I have half a mind to go with you, and try a little roughing it too
Go with _me_
and leave Miss Gwilt
I'll tell you what
I begin to doubt if you're quite cured yet of your belief in the Dream. I suspect you're running away from me, after all
What do you mean
What did you tell me
when you took me in here the other day, and made a clean breast of it? What did you say about this room, and the second vision of the dream? By Jupiter
now I look again, here _is_ the Second Vision! There's the rain pattering against the window-there's the lawn and the garden outside -- here am I where I stood in the Dream -- and there are you where the Shadow stood. The whole scene complete, out-of-doors and in; and_I've _ discovered it this time
No
the scene is _not_ complete -- you have forgotten something, as usual. The Dream is wrong this time, thank God -- utterly wrong! In the vision you saw, the statue was lying in fragments on the floor, and you were stooping over them with a troubled and an angry mind. There stands the statue safe and sound! and you haven't the vestige of an angry feeling in your mind, have you
What did I tell you
That night on the Wreck is hanging on your mind as heavily as ever
Nothing hangs heavy on me
but the knapsack on my back, and the time I'm wasting here. I'll go out, and see if it's likely to clear up
You'll come back
Yes
I'll come back in a fortnight. Good-by, Allan; and good luck with Miss Gwilt
I might have gone a little way with him
I should like to have seen the dear old fellow fairly started on his journey
Poor little chap! I know how the wind gnaws and the rain wets through a ragged jacket, better than most people who have got a good coat on their backs
Wrong here-abouts
That's my opinion of Mr. Armadale's friend
I had my eye on him
and what do you think he did? He crossed the road over to my shop, and bought a bit of meat fit for a Christian. Very well. He says good-morning, and crosses back again; and, on the word of a man, down he goes on his knees on the wet doorstep, and out he takes his knife, and cuts up the meat, and gives it to the dog. Meat, I tell you again, fit for a Christian! I'm not a hard man, ma'am
but meat's meat; and it will serve your master's friend right if he lives to want it
Post
Haven't you got your watch? Don't you know that it's a good half-hour too soon to ask for your letters
When the postman does come
see him yourself. I am expecting a letter which I ought to have had two days since. I don't understand it. I'm beginning to suspect the servants
Whom will you suspect next
There! don't put yourself out. I'll answer the gate-bell this morning; and we'll see if I can't bring you a letter when the postman comes
Older and older, and thinner and thinner
The major will soon be a free man; but I'll have that red-haired hussy out of the house first
Red is your taste in your old age is it
Red hair, and a scrofulous complexion, and a padded figure, a ballet-girl's walk, and a pickpocket's light fingers. _Miss_ Gwilt! _Miss_, with those eyes, and that walk
_Miss_
Before another week is over your head, my lady, you go
I was so struck
by the grace and distinction of Miss Gwilt's manners that I took an opportunity, when she was out of the room, of asking how she first came to be governess. 'In the usual way,' I was told. 'A sad family misfortune, in which she behaved nobly. She is a very sensitive person, and shrinks from speaking of it among strangers -- a natural reluctance which I have always felt it a matter of delicacy to respect.' Hearing this, of course, I felt the same delicacy on my side. It was no part of my duty to intrude on the poor thing's private sorrows; my only business was to do what I have now done, to make sure that I was engaging a capable and respectable governess to instruct my grandchild
I'll get the particulars from the reference first
and then question the creature herself, and see if the two stories agree
Has the postman come
Something wrong
Mrs Mandeville, 18 Kingsdown Crescent, Bayswater
Something wrong
Thank God -- yes
Miss Gwilt's an impostor! Miss Gwilt's an impostor! If I die for it, Rachel, I'll be carried to the window to see the police take her away
It's one thing to say she's an impostor behind her back, and another thing to prove it to her face
For me
No
for Miss Gwilt
Where is she
Out again, for another walk before breakfast -- by herself
Can you open it, Rachel
Can you close it again, so that nobody would know
Can you spare the scarf that matches your pearl gray dress
Take it
Thank you, ma'am, for the scarf
Don't hurry
No signs of her yet
Are you troubled with scruples
Consider it a duty you owe to your daughter
You wretch
Diana Street. "BY DEAR LYDIA -- The cab is waiting at the door, and I have only a moment to tell you that I am obliged to leave London, on business, for three or four days, or a week at longest. My letters will be forwarded if you write. I got yours yesterday, and I agree with you that it is very important to put him off the awkward subject of yourself and your family as long as you safely can. The better you know him, the better you will be able to make up the sort of story that will do. Once told, you will have to stick to it; and, _having_ to stick to it, beware of making it complicated, and beware of making it in a hurry. I will write again about this, and give you my own ideas. In the meantime, don't risk meeting him too often in the park. 

"Yours, M. O
Well
Have you done with it
Meeting him in the park
_Him_! Rachel, where is the major
In his own room
Have your own way. I want the letter and the envelope
Can you close it again so that she won't know
What I can open I can shut. Anything more
Nothing more
Oh, if I could only lay my hand on some man I could trust
If I only knew where to look for somebody to help me
May I come in
What do you want
I have brought up your breakfast, mamma
My breakfast
Why doesn't Rachel bring it up as usual
Come in
What does this mean
I thought I should like to bring you up your breakfast, mamma, for once in a way
and I asked Rachel to let me
Come here
and wish me good-morning
Let me go, mamma
You hurt me
Tell me why you have brought up my breakfast this morning
I have told you, mamma
You have not! You have made an excuse; I see it in your face. Come! what is it
I have been vexed
and I didn't want to stop in the breakfast-room. I wanted to come up here, and to speak to you
Vexed? Who has vexed you? What has happened? Has Miss Gwilt anything to do with it
Mamma
you read my thoughts. I declare you frighten me. It _was_ Miss Gwilt
Have you got what you want
Miss, there, insisted on taking your tray up this morning. Has she broken anything
Go to the window. I want to speak to Rachel
Anything wrong
Do you think she suspects us
I told you it should be done
and it _has_ been done. She hasn't the ghost of a suspicion. I waited in the room; and I saw her take up the letter and open it
Thank you
I want nothing more
I used to think that you promised to be pretty, child
But you don't seem to be keeping your promise. You look out of health and out of spirits. What is the matter with you
I am looking ill, because my life is miserable to me. I am fond of Mr. Armadale, and Mr. Armadale was once fond of me. We had one little disagreement, only one, in which I was to blame. I wanted to tell him so at the time, and I have wanted to tell him so ever since; and Miss Gwilt stands between us and prevents me. She has made us like strangers; she has altered him, and taken him away from me. He doesn't look at me as he did; he doesn't speak to me as he did; he is never alone with me as he used to be; I can't say the words to him that I long to say; and I can't write to him, for it would look as if I wanted to get him back. It is all over between me and Mr. Armadale; and it is that woman's fault. There is ill-blood between Miss Gwilt and me the whole day long; and say what I may, and do what I may, she always gets the better of me, and always puts me in the wrong. Everything I saw at Thorpe Ambrose pleased me, everything I did at Thorpe Ambrose made me happy, before she came. Nothing pleases me, and nothing makes me happy now
Come
You have something to say to me about Miss Gwilt. What is it
She aggravates me beyond endurance, mamma; I can't bear her; I shall do something
I shall throw something at her head if we go on much longer like this! I should have thrown something this morning if I hadn't left the room. Oh, do speak to papa about it! Do find out some reason for sending her away! I'll go to school -- I'll do anything in the world to get rid of Miss Gwilt
Why do you want to get rid of Miss Gwilt
What have you got to complain of
Nothing
That's the aggravation of it. Miss Gwilt won't let me have anything to complain of. She is perfectly detestable; she is driving me mad; and she is the pink of propriety all the time. I dare say it's wrong, but I don't care -- I hate her
Pour me out a cup of tea
and don't excite yourself, my dear. Why do you speak to _me_ about this? Why don't you speak to your father
I have tried to speak to papa
But it's no use; he is too good to know what a wretch she is. She is always on her best behavior with him; she is always contriving to be useful to him. I can't make him understand why I dislike Miss Gwilt; I can't make _you_ understand -- I only understand it myself
I'll go downstairs again
I'm not fit for anything; I can't even pour out a cup of tea
Wait here
You have come to the right place and the right person. Go on abusing Miss Gwilt. I like to hear you -- I hate her, too
You, mamma
If you had had eyes in your head, you would never have gone to your father
Your father has reasons of his own for hearing nothing that you can say, or that anybody can say, against Miss Gwilt
Mamma
you are talking horribly! Papa is the best, and dearest, and kindest -- oh, I won't hear it! I won't hear it
You impudent little fool
Do you think I want _you_ to remind me of what I owe to your father? Am I to learn how to speak of your father, and how to think of your father, and how to love and honor your father, from a forward little minx like you! I was finely disappointed, I can tell you, when you were born -- I wished for a boy, you impudent hussy! If you ever find a man who is fool enough to marry you, he will be a lucky man if you only love him half as well, a quarter as well, a hundred-thousandth part as well, as I loved your father. Ah, you can cry when it's too late; you can come creeping back to beg your mother's pardon after you have insulted her. You little dowdy, half-grown creature! I was handsomer than ever you will be when I married your father. I would have gone through fire and water to serve your father! If he had asked me to cut off one of my arms, I would have done it -- I would have done it to please him
My arms
What arms I had when I was young
Oh, look at it now! look at it now
Oh, mamma
you know I didn't mean to offend you! I couldn't help it when you spoke so of my father. Oh, do, do forgive me
Forgive you
I beg your pardon, mamma -- I beg your pardon on my knees. I am so unhappy; I do so want a little kindness! Won't you forgive me
Wait a little
Ah
now I know! Forgive you? Yes; I'll forgive you on one condition
Tell me why you hate Miss Gwilt! You've a reason of your own for hating her, and you haven't confessed it yet
Tell me
why do you hate her
Because she is trying
Trying what
Trying to make somebody who is much
Much what
Much too young for her
Marry her
Yes, mamma
Who is it, Neelie
You will never say I told you, mamma
Never! Who is it
Mr. Armadale
A blind
which has deceived my girl. It doesn't deceive _me_. Is Miss Gwilt likely to succeed
Does Mr. Armadale show any sort of interest in her
He shows the most unaccountable interest
It's impossible to understand it. It's downright infatuation. I haven't patience to talk about it
How do _you_ come to be in Mr. Armadale's secrets
Has he informed _you_, of all the people in the world, of his interest in Miss Gwilt
Me
It's quite bad enough that he should have told papa
Get a chair
Sit down, child, and tell me all about it. Every word, mind -- every word
I can only tell you, mamma, what papa told me
When
Saturday. I went in with papa's lunch to the workshop, and he said, 'I have just had a visit from Mr. Armadale; and I want to give you a caution while I think of it.' I didn't say anything, mamma; I only waited. Papa went on, and told me that Mr. Armadale had been speaking to him on the subject of Miss Gwilt, and that he had been asking a question about her which nobody in his position had a right to ask. Papa said he had been obliged, good-humoredly, to warn Mr. Armadale to be a little more delicate, and a little more careful next time. I didn't feel much interested, mamma; it didn't matter to _me_ what Mr. Armadale said or did. Why should I care about it
Never mind yourself
Go on with what your father said. What was he doing when he was talking about Miss Gwilt? How did he look
Much as usual, mamma. He was walking up and down the workshop; and I took his arm and walked up and down with him
I don't care what _you_ were doing
Did your father tell you what Mr. Armadale's question was, or did he not
Yes, mamma. He said Mr. Armadale began by mentioning that he was very much interested in Miss Gwilt, and he then went on to ask whether papa could tell him anything about her family misfortunes
What
Mr. Armadale said _that_
Mamma
are you in pain? Are you ill? You frighten me
Nothing, nothing, nothing
My nerves are bad this morning; don't notice it. I'll try the other side of the pillow. Go on! go on!. I'm listening, though I'm not looking at you
I've got her
I've got her at last
I'm afraid I've been talking too much
I'm afraid I've been stopping here too long. Shall I go downstairs, mamma, and come back later in the day
Go on
What did your father say next? Anything more about Mr. Armadale
Nothing more, except how papa answered him
Papa repeated his own words when he told me about it. He said, 'In the absence of any confidence volunteered by the lady herself, Mr. Armadale, all I know or wish to know -- and you must excuse me for saying, all any one else need know or wish to know -- is that Miss Gwilt gave me a perfectly satisfactory reference before she entered my house.' Severe, mamma, wasn't it? I don't pity him in the least; he richly deserved it. The next thing was papa's caution to _me_. He told me to check Mr. Armadale's curiosity if he applied to me next. As if he was likely to apply to me! And as if I should listen to him if he did! That's all, mamma. You won't suppose, will you, that I have told you this because I want to hinder Mr. Armadale from marrying Miss Gwilt? Let him marry her if he pleases; I don't care
All I want is to be relieved from the misery of having Miss Gwilt for my governess. I'd rather go to school. I should like to go to school. My mind's quite changed about all that, only I haven't the heart to tell papa. I don't know what's come to me, I don't seem to have heart enough for anything now; and when papa takes me on his knee in the evening, and says, 'Let's have a talk, Neelie,' he makes me cry. Would you mind breaking it to him, mamma, that I've changed my mind, and I want to go to school
Yes, yes
You're a good girl; you shall go to school
Miss Gwilt shan't see I've been crying
I've tired you out
Let me go now; and let me come back a little later when you have had some rest
Yes
a little later when I have had some rest
Mr. Armadale may believe her, and my daughter may believe her
But I know the major; and she can't deceive _me_
Prop me up
And give me my desk. I want to write
You're excited
You're not fit to write
Give me the desk
Anything more
Yes. Come back in half an hour. I shall want you to take a letter to the great house
Mercy on us
What next? You don't mean to say you're going to write
I am going to write to Mr. Armadale
and you are going to take the letter to him, and wait for an answer; and, mind this, not a living soul but our two selves must know of it in the house
Why are you writing to Mr. Armadale
And why is nobody to know of it but our two selves
Wait
and you will see
I'll help you with my eyes open
but I won't help you blindfold
Oh, if I only had the use of my limbs
You wretch, if I could only do without you
You have the use of your head
And you ought to know better than to trust me by halves, at this time of day
What do you want to know
Tell me, and leave me
I want to know what you are writing to Mr. Armadale about
About Miss Gwilt
What has Mr. Armadale to do with you and Miss Gwilt
Stoop
Miss Gwilt may be listening at the door. I'll whisper
You know that the postman went with this letter to Kingsdown Crescent
And you know that he found Mrs. Mandeville gone away, nobody could tell where
Well
what next
This, next. When Mr. Armadale gets the letter that I am going to write to him, he will follow the same road as the postman; and we'll see what happens when he knocks at Mrs. Mandeville's door
How do you get him to the door
I tell him to go to Miss Gwilt's reference
Is he sweet on Miss Gwilt
Yes
Ah
I see
I can't live this sort of life much longer
If nobody will help me to put the awkward question to Miss Gwilt, I must stumble on some way of putting it for myself
Now then! what is it
A letter, sir; and the person waits for an answer
Mrs. Mandeville, 18 Kingsdown Crescent, Bayswater. Favored by Mr. Armadale
Anne Milroy
Anne Milroy
It must be the major's wife. What can she possibly want with me
DEAR SIR -- The name at the end of these lines will, I fear, recall to you a very rude return made on my part, some time since, for an act of neighborly kindness on yours. I can only say in excuse that I am a great sufferer, and that, if I was ill-tempered enough, in a moment of irritation under severe pain, to send back your present of fruit, I have regretted doing so ever since. Attribute this letter, if you please, to my desire to make some atonement, and to my wish to be of service to our good friend and landlord, if I possibly can. "I have been informed of the question which you addressed to my husband, the day before yesterday, on the subject of Miss Gwilt. From all I have heard of you, I am quite sure that your anxiety to know more of this charming person than you know now is an anxiety proceeding from the most honorable motives. Believing this, I feel a woman's interest -- incurable invalid as I am -- in assisting you. If you are desirous of becoming acquainted with Miss Gwilt's family circumstances without directly appealing to Miss Gwilt herself, it rests with you to make the discovery; and I will tell you how. 

"It so happens that, some few days since, I wrote privately to Miss Gwilt's reference on this very subject. I had long observed that my governess was singularly reluctant to speak of her family and her friends; and, without attributing her silence to other than perfectly proper motives, I felt it my duty to my daughter to make some inquiry on the subject. The answer that I have received is satisfactory as far as it goes. My correspondent informs me that Miss Gwilt's story is a very sad one, and that her own conduct throughout has been praiseworthy in the extreme. The circumstances (of a domestic nature, as I gather) are all plainly stated in a collection of letters now in the possession of Miss Gwilt's reference. This lady is perfectly willing to let me see the letters; but not possessing copies of them, and being personally responsible for their security, she is reluctant, if it can be avoided, to trust them to the post; and she begs me to wait until she or I can find some reliable person who can be employed to transmit the packet from her hands to mine. 

"Under these circumstances, it has struck me that you might possibly, with your interest in the matter, be not unwilling to take charge of the papers. If I am wrong in this idea, and if you are not disposed, after what I have told you, to go to the trouble and expense of a journey to London, you have only to burn my letter and inclosure, and to think no more about it. If you decide on becoming my envoy, I gladly provide you with the necessary introduction to Mrs. Mandeville. You have only, on presenting it, to receive the letters in a sealed packet, to send them here on your return to Thorpe Ambrose, and to wait an early communication from me acquainting you with the result. 

"In conclusion, I have only to add that I see no impropriety in your taking (if you feel so inclined) the course that I propose to you. Miss Gwilt's manner of receiving such allusions as I have made to her family circumstances has rendered it unpleasant for me (and would render it quite impossible for you) to seek information in the first instance from herself. I am certainly justified in applying to her reference; and you are certainly not to blame for being the medium of safely transmitting a sealed communication with one lady to another. If I find in that communication family secrets which cannot honorably be mentioned to any third person, I shall, of course, be obliged to keep you waiting until I have first appealed to Miss Gwilt. If I find nothing recorded but what is to her honor, and what is sure to raise her still higher in your estimation, I am undeniably doing her a service by taking you into my confidence. This is how I look at the matter; but pray don't allow me to influence _you_. 

"In any case, I have one condition to make, which I am sure you will understand to be indispensable. The most innocent actions are liable, in this wicked world, to the worst possible interpretation I must, therefore, request that you will consider this communication as strictly _private_. I write to you in a confidence which is on no account (until circumstances may, in my opinion, justify the revelation of it) to extend beyond our two selves, 

"Believe me, dear sir, truly yours, 

"ANNE MILROY
By Jupiter, this is kind of Mrs. Milroy
My dear madam
Just the thing I wanted, at the time when I needed it most
I don't know how to express my sense of your kindness, except by saying that I will go to London and fetch the letters with the greatest pleasure
Ah, nothing like the women for helping one when one is in love! This is just what my poor mother would have done in Mrs. Milroy's place
On my word of honor as a gentleman, I will take the utmost care of the letters; and keep the thing strictly private, as you request
I would have given five hundred pounds to anybody who would have put me up to the right way to speak to Miss Gwilt; and here is this blessed woman does it for nothing
Believe me, my dear madam, gratefully yours, Allan Armadale
I'm going to town; back to-morrow
Halloo
Something important there, Mr. Bashwood, eh
No, sir -- no, sir; only a little letter, a little letter, a little letter
I wish I could take to that fellow
but I can't; he's such a sneak! What the deuce was there to tremble about? Does he think I want to pry into his secrets
If you can hurry your business" (wrote the major's governess) "do so, and come back to London immediately. Things are going wrong here, and Miss Milroy is at the bottom of the mischief. This morning she insisted on taking up her mother's breakfast, always on other occasions taken up by the nurse. They had a long confabulation in private; and half an hour later I saw the nurse slip out with a letter, and take the path that leads to the great house. The sending of the letter has been followed by young Armadale's sudden departure for London -- in the face of an appointment which he had with me for tomorrow morning. This looks serious. The girl is evidently bold enough to make a fight of it for the position of Mrs. Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose, and she has found out some way of getting her mother to help her. Don't suppose I am in the least nervous or discouraged, and don't do anything till you hear from me again. Only get back to London, for I may have serious need of your assistance in the course of the next day or two. "I send this letter to town (to save a post) by the midday train, in charge of the guard. As you insist on knowing every step I take at Thorpe Ambrose, I may as well tell you that my messenger (for I can't go to the station myself) is that curious old creature whom I mentioned to you in my first letter. Ever since that time he has been perpetually hanging about here for a look at me. I am not sure whether I frighten him or fascinate him; perhaps I do both together. All you need care to know is that I can trust him with my trifling errands, and possibly, as time goes on, with something more. L. G
The old story
There's a woman in the case, as usual. Any other business would have been turned over to me
You don't object to vegetables, sir
Very good; you may leave the rest to my grandfather, my father, and me. I don't know which of the three is most beloved and respected in this house. How d'ye do, William? (Our head-waiter, Mr. Armadale.) Is your wife's rheumatism better, and does the little boy get on nicely at school? Your master's out, is he? Never mind, you'll do. This, William, is Mr. Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose. I have prevailed on Mr. Armadale to try our house. Have you got the bedroom I wrote for? Very good. Let Mr. Armadale have it instead of me (my grandfather's favorite bedroom, sir; No. 57, on the second floor); pray take it; I can sleep anywhere. Will you have the mattress on the top of the feather-bed? You hear, William? Tell Matilda, the mattress on the top of the feather-bed. How is Matilda? Has she got the toothache, as usual? The head-chambermaid, Mr. Armadale, and a most extraordinary woman; she will _not_ part with a hollow tooth in her lower jaw. My grandfather says, 'Have it out;' my father says, 'Have it out;' I say, 'Have it out;' and Matilda turns a deaf ear to all three of us. Yes, William, yes; if Mr. Armadale approves, this sitting-room will do. About dinner, sir? Shall we say, in that case, half-past seven? William, half-past seven. Not the least need to order anything, Mr. Armadale. The head-waiter has only to give my compliments to the cook, and the best dinner in London will be sent up, punctual to the minute, as a necessary consequence. Say, Mr. Pedgift Junior, if you please, William; otherwise, sir, we might get my grandfather's dinner or my father's dinner, and they _might_ turn out a little too heavy and old-fashioned in their way of feeding for you and me. As to the wine, William. At dinner, _my_ Champagne, and the sherry that my father thinks nasty. After dinner, the claret with the blue seal -- the wine my innocent grandfather said wasn't worth sixpence a bottle. Ha! ha! poor old boy! You will send up the evening papers and the play-bills, just as usual, and -- that will do? I think, William, for the present. An invaluable servant, Mr. Armadale; they're all invaluable servants in this house. We may not be fashionable here, sir, but by the Lord Harry we are snug! A cab? you would like a cab? Don't stir! I've rung the bell twice -- that means, Cab wanted in a hurry. Might I ask, Mr. Armadale, which way your business takes you? Toward Bayswater? Would you mind dropping me in the park? It's a habit of mine when I'm in London to air myself among the aristocracy. Yours truly, sir, has an eye for a fine woman and a fine horse; and when he's in Hyde Park he's quite in his native element
I'm afraid something has happened to annoy you, sir, since we parted company in the Park
Excuse the question; I only ask it in case I can be of any use
Something that I never expected has happened
I don't know what to make of it. I should like to have your opinion
that is to say, if you will excuse my not entering into any particulars
Certainly
Sketch it in outline, sir. The merest hint will do; I wasn't born yesterday
Oh, these women
Well
and a person -- that is to say -- no -- as I said before, a person to inquire after
Well, I went to the house, and when I asked for her -- I mean the person -- she -- that is to say, the person -- oh, confound it
I shall drive myself mad, and you, too, if I try to tell my story in this roundabout way. Here it is in two words. I went to No. 18 Kingsdown Crescent, to see a lady named Mandeville; and, when I asked for her, the servant said Mrs. Mandeville had gone away, without telling anybody where, and without even leaving an address at which letters could be sent to her. There! it's out at last. And what do you think of it now
Tell me first, sir
what inquiries you made when you found this lady had vanished
Inquiries
I was utterly staggered; I didn't say anything. What inquiries ought I to have made
I have no wish, Mr. Armadale
to inquire into your business with Mrs. Mandeville
No
I hope you won't inquire into that. My business with Mrs. Mandeville must remain a secret
But
I may, perhaps, be allowed to ask generally whether your business with Mrs. Mandeville is of a nature to interest you in tracing her from Kingsdown Crescent to her present residence
Certainly
I have a very particular reason for wishing to see her
In that case, sir
there were two obvious questions which you ought to have asked, to begin with -- namely, on what date Mrs. Mandeville left, and how she left. Having discovered this, you should have ascertained next under what domestic circumstances she went away -- whether there was a misunderstanding with anybody; say a difficulty about money matters. Also, whether she went away alone, or with somebody else. Also, whether the house was her own, or whether she only lodged in it. Also, in the latter event
Stop! stop! you're making my head swim
I don't understand all these ins and outs. I'm not used to this sort of thing
I've been used to it myself from my childhood upward, sir
And if I can be of any assistance, say the word
You're very kind
If you could only help me to find Mrs. Mandeville; and if you wouldn't mind leaving the thing afterward entirely in my hands
I'll leave it in your hands, sir, with all the pleasure in life
And I'll lay five to one
when the time comes, you'll leave it in mine
We'll go to Bayswater together, Mr. Armadale, tomorrow morning. In the meantime. here's the soup. The case now before the court is, Pleasure versus Business. I don't know what you say, sir; I say, without a moment's hesitation, Verdict for the plaintiff. Let us gather our rosebuds while we may. Excuse my high spirits, Mr. Armadale. Though buried in the country, I was made for a London life; the very air of the metropolis intoxicates me
Iced punch, William, after the soup. I answer for the punch, Mr. Armadale; it's made after a recipe of my great-uncle's. He kept a tavern, and founded the fortunes of the family. I don't mind telling you the Pedgifts have had a publican among them; there's no false pride about me. 'Worth makes the man (as Pope says) and want of it the fellow; the rest is all but leather and prunella.' I cultivate poetry as well as music, sir, in my leisure hours; in fact, I'm more or less on familiar terms with the whole of the nine Muses. Aha! here's the punch! The memory of my great-uncle, the publican, Mr. Armadale -- drunk in solemn silence
See my way
I see nothing but a cab-stand
Get in, sir
I've found the man. He remembers the lady; and, though he has forgotten the name of the street, he believes he can find the place he drove her to when he once gets back into the neighborhood. I am charmed to inform you, Mr. Armadale, that we are in luck's way so far. I asked the waterman to show me the regular men on the stand; and it turns out that one of the regular men drove Mrs. Mandeville. The waterman vouches for him; he's quite an anomaly -- a respectable cabman; drives his own horse, and has never been in any trouble. These are the sort of men, sir, who sustain one's belief in human nature. I've had a look at our friend, and I agree with the waterman; I think we can depend on him
Here it is, gentlemen
Oldershaw
Doctor Downward
We have got our secrets inside, and we mean to keep them
This can't be the place
there must be some mistake
You know Mrs. Mandeville's habits
I
You may be surprised to hear it; but Mrs. Mandeville is a total stranger to me
I'm not in the least surprised to hear it, sir; the landlady at Kingsdown Crescent informed me that Mrs. Mandeville was an old woman. Suppose we inquire
Good-morning, miss
Is Mrs. Mandeville at home
No person of that name is known here
Perhaps they know her at the private door
Perhaps they do
Rather a quick-tempered young person that, sir
I congratulate Mrs. Mandeville on not being acquainted with her
Very odd
What is odd
Are you quite sure there is no mistake about the name
I have known very serious inconvenience to arise sometimes from mistakes about names. No? There is really no mistake? In that case, gentlemen, I can only repeat what my servant has already told you. Don't apologize, pray. Good-morning
Mr. Armadale
I don't know how you feel; I feel puzzled
That's awkward
I was just going to ask you what we ought to do next
I don't like the look of the place, the look of the shop-woman, or the look of the doctor
And yet I can't say I think they are deceiving us; I can't say I think they really know Mrs. Mandeville's name
We must do something
it seems useless to stop here
I quite agree with you, sir
we must do something. We'll cross-examine the cabman
I don't know what you may have seen, gentlemen
but there's the only shop window I ever saw with nothing at all inside it. _That_ fixed the place in my mind at the time, and I know it again when I see it
Take my number, gentlemen
and pay me for my time; and what I've said to you, I'll swear to anywhere
We are quite in the dark, thus far
Suppose we grope our way back to the hotel
Our next move, Mr. Armadale, is not a very easy move to see
Do you think you could put me in possession of any further particulars
I mustn't force it
I must give it time, and let it come of its own accord
In the absence of any other information, sir
what do you say to my making some inquiry about that queer shop, and about those two names on the door-plate? My business in London, when I leave you, is of a professional nature; and I am going into the right quarter for getting information, if it is to be got
There can't be any harm, I suppose, in making inquiries
I'll get down and walk, and leave you to go on to your business
I want to consider a little about this, and a walk and a cigar will help me
My business will be done, sir, between one and two
Shall we meet again at two o'clock, at the hotel
Nothing at present
You seem to be in low spirits
Can't we get our information? Can nobody tell you anything about the house in Pimlico
Three different people have told me about it, Mr. Armadale, and they have all three said the same thing
I am afraid I must trouble you with a question or two, sir, before I can come to the point
I don't want to force myself into your confidence. I only want to see my way, in what looks to me like a very awkward business. Do you mind telling me whether others besides yourself are interested in this inquiry of ours
Other people _are_ interested in it
There's no objection to telling you that
Is there any other person who is the object of the inquiry besides Mrs. Mandeville, herself
Yes; there is another person
Is the person a young woman, Mr. Armadale
How do you come to guess that
Don't ask me any more questions
I'm a bad hand at defending myself against a sharp fellow like you; and I'm bound in honor toward other people to keep the particulars of this business to myself
I've done with my questions, sir
and I have something to say now on my side. In my father's absence, perhaps you may be kindly disposed to consider me as your legal adviser. If you will take my advice, you will not stir another step in this inquiry
What do you mean
It is just possible, Mr. Armadale, that the cabman, positive as he is, may have been mistaken. I strongly recommend you to take it for granted that he _is_ mistaken, and to drop it there
Very well, sir
if you will have it, you must have it
Don't blame me, Mr. Armadale
I tried to spare you
I tried to spare you, Mr. Armadale
I was anxious, if I could possibly avoid it, not to distress you
You have distressed me dreadfully
You have quite crushed me down. But it is not your fault. I ought to feel you have done me a service; and what I ought to do I will do, when I am my own man again. There is one thing
which ought to be understood between us at once. The advice you offered me just now was very kindly meant, and it was the best advice that could be given. I will take it gratefully. We will never talk of this again, if you please; and I beg and entreat you will never speak about it to any other person. Will you promise me that
I can't go back to Thorpe Ambrose; I can't trust myself to speak to her, or to see her again. But I can keep her miserable secret; and I will
Dunn's Hotel, Covent Garden, Tuesday. "DEAR MADAM -- Pray excuse my not returning to Thorpe Ambrose today, as I said I would. Unforeseen circumstances oblige me to stop in London. I am sorry to say I have not succeeded in seeing Mrs. Mandeville, for which reason I cannot perform your errand; and I beg, therefore, with many apologies, to return the letter of introduction. I hope you will allow me to conclude by saying that I am very much obliged to you for your kindness, and that I will not venture to trespass on it any further. 

"I remain, dear madam, yours truly, 

"ALLAN ARMADALE
If she had been alive
I might have trusted _her_, and she would have comforted me
I'll write
to have the yacht rigged and refitted, and I'll wait to go to Somersetshire myself till Midwinter can go with me
I'm not going back to Thorpe Ambrose
I'm going to stay a little while in London. I hope you will be able to stay with me
You are quite right, sir, to stop here; London's the place to divert your mind
All business is more or less elastic in its nature, Mr. Armadale; I'll spin _my_ business out, and keep you company with the greatest pleasure. We are both of us on the right side of thirty, sir; let's enjoy ourselves. What do you say to dining early, and going to the play, and trying the Great Exhibition in Hyde Park to-morrow morning, after breakfast? If we only live like fighting-cocks, and go in perpetually for public amusements, we shall arrive in no time at the _mens sana in corpore sano_ of the ancients. Don't be alarmed at the quotation, sir. I dabble a little in Latin after business hours, and enlarge my sympathies by occasional perusal of the Pagan writers, assisted by a crib. William, dinner at five; and, as it's particularly important to-day, I'll see the cook myself
The Cottage, Thorpe Ambrose, Wednesday. "SIR -- I have just received your mysterious letter. It has more than surprised, it has really alarmed me. After having made the friendliest advances to you on my side, I find myself suddenly shut out from your confidence in the most unintelligible, and, I must add, the most discourteous manner. It is quite impossible that I can allow the matter to rest where you have left it. The only conclusion I can draw from your letter is that my confidence must have been abused in some way, and that you know a great deal more than you are willing to tell me. Speaking in the interest of my daughter's welfare, I request that you will inform me what the circumstances are which have prevented your seeing Mrs. Mandeville, and which have led to the withdrawal of the assistance that you unconditionally promised me in your letter of Monday last. 

"In my state of health, I cannot involve myself in a lengthened correspondence. I must endeavor to anticipate any objections you may make, and I must say all that I have to say in my present letter. In the event (which I am most unwilling to consider possible) of your declining to accede to the request that I have just addressed to you, I beg to say that I shall consider it my duty to my daughter to have this very unpleasant matter cleared up. If I don't hear from you to my full satisfaction by return of post, I shall be obliged to tell my husband that circumstances have happened which justify us in immediately testing the respectability of Miss Gwilt's reference. And when he asks me for my authority, I will refer him to you. 

"Your obedient servant, ANNE MILROY
If there _is_ to be a quarrel
it will be a comfort, at any rate, to have it out with a man
He was extremely sorry to have offended Mrs. Milroy. He was innocent of all intention to offend Mrs. Milroy. And he begged to remain Mrs. Milroy's truly
The Cottage, Thorpe Ambrose, Friday, July 11, 1851. "DEAR SIR -- When you did me the favor of calling here a few days since, you asked a question relating to my governess, Miss Gwilt, which I thought rather a strange one at the time, and which caused, as you may remember, a momentary embarrassment between us. 

"This morning the subject of Miss Gwilt has been brought to my notice again in a manner which has caused me the utmost astonishment. In plain words, Mrs. Milroy has informed me that Miss Gwilt has exposed herself to the suspicion of having deceived us by a false reference. On my expressing the surprise which such an extraordinary statement caused me, and requesting that it might be instantly substantiated, I was still further astonished by being told to apply for all particulars to no less a person than Mr. Armadale. I have vainly requested some further explanation from Mrs. Milroy; she persists in maintaining silence, and in referring me to yourself. 

"Under these extraordinary circumstances, I am compelled, in justice to all parties, to ask you certain questions which I will endeavor to put as plainly as possible, and which I am quite ready to believe (from my previous experience of you) that you will answer frankly on your side. 

"I beg to inquire, in the first place, whether you admit or deny Mrs. Milroy's assertion that you have made yourself acquainted with particulars relating either to Miss Gwilt or to Miss Gwilt's reference, of which I am entirely ignorant? In the second place, if you admit the truth of Mrs. Milroy's statement, I request to know how you became acquainted with those particulars? Thirdly, and lastly, I beg to ask you what the particulars are? 

"If any special justification for putting these questions be needed -- which, purely as a matter of courtesy toward yourself, I am willing to admit -- I beg to remind you that the most precious charge in my house, the charge of my daughter, is confided to Miss Gwilt; and that Mrs. Milroy's statement places you, to all appearance, in the position of being competent to tell me whether that charge is properly bestowed or not. 

"I have only to add that, as nothing has thus far occurred to justify me in entertaining the slightest suspicion either of my governess or her reference, I shall wait before I make any appeal to Miss Gwilt until I have received your answer -- which I shall expect by return of post. Believe me, dear sir, faithfully yours, 

"DAVID MILROY
I may have behaved like a fool
but I won't break my word; and I won't be the means of turning that miserable woman adrift in the world again
The Cottage, Thorpe Ambrose, Sunday. "SIR -- Your refusal to answer my questions, unaccompanied as it is by even the shadow of an excuse for such a proceeding, can be interpreted but in one way. Besides being an implied acknowledgment of the correctness of Mrs. Milroy's statement, it is also an implied reflection on my governess's character. As an act of justice toward a lady who lives under the protection of my roof, and who has given me no reason whatever to distrust her, I shall now show our correspondence to Miss Gwilt; and I shall repeat to her the conversation which I had with Mrs. Milroy on the subject, in Mrs. Milroy's presence. 

"One word more respecting the future relations between us, and I have done. My ideas on certain subjects are, I dare say, the ideas of an old-fashioned man. In my time, we had a code of honor by which we regulated our actions. According to that code, if a man made private inquiries into a lady's affairs, without being either her husband, her father, or her brother, he subjected himself to the responsibility of justifying his conduct in the estimation of others; and, if he evaded that responsibility, he abdicated the position of a gentleman. It is quite possible that this antiquated way of thinking exists no longer; but it is too late for me, at my time of life, to adopt more modern views. I am scrupulously anxious, seeing that we live in a country and a time in which the only court of honor is a police-court, to express myself with the utmost moderation of language upon this the last occasion that I shall have to communicate with you. Allow me, therefore, merely to remark that our ideas of the conduct which is becoming in a gentleman differ seriously; and permit me on this account to request that you will consider yourself for the future as a stranger to my family and to myself. 

"Your obedient servant, 

"DAVID MILROY
I shouldn't have had a word to say against it; I should have felt it served me right
For me
For you, sir -- from my father
inclosed in one to myself. Perhaps you will allow me to suggest, by way of preparing you for -- for something a little unpleasant -- that we shall want a particularly good dinner to-day; and (if they're not performing any modern German music to-night) I think we should do well to finish the evening melodiously at the Opera
Something wrong at Thorpe Ambrose
Yes, Mr. Armadale; something wrong at Thorpe Ambrose
High Street Thorpe Ambrose, 17th July, 1851. "DEAR SIR -- I cannot reconcile it with my sense of duty to your interests to leave you any longer in ignorance of reports current in this town and its neighborhood, which, I regret to say, are reports affecting yourself. 

"The first intimation of anything unpleasant reached me on Monday last. It was widely rumored in the town that something had gone wrong at Major Milroy's with the new governess, and that Mr. Armadale was mixed up in it. I paid no heed to this, believing it to be one of the many trumpery pieces of scandal perpetually set going here, and as necessary as the air they breathe to the comfort of the inhabitants of this highly respectable place. 

"Tuesday, however, put the matter in a new light. The most interesting particulars were circulated on the highest authority. On Wednesday, the gentry in the neighborhood took the matter up, and universally sanctioned the view adopted by the town. To-day the public feeling has reached its climax, and I find myself under the necessity of making you acquainted with what has happened. 

"To begin at the beginning. It is asserted that a correspondence took place last week between Major Milroy and yourself; in which you cast a very serious suspicion on Miss Gwilt's respectability, without defining your accusations and without (on being applied to) producing your proofs. Upon this, the major appears to have felt it his duty (while assuring his governess of his own firm belief in her respectability) to inform her of what had happened, in order that she might have no future reason to complain of his having had any concealments from her in a matter affecting her character. Very magnanimous on the major's part; but you will see directly that Miss Gwilt was more magnanimous still. After expressing her thanks in a most becoming manner, she requested permission to withdraw herself from Major Milroy's service. 

"Various reports are in circulation as to the governess's reason for taking this step. 

"The authorized version (as sanctioned by the resident gentry) represents Miss Gwilt to have said that she could not condescend -- in justice to herself, and in justice to her highly respectable reference -- to defend her reputation against undefined imputations cast on it by a comparative stranger. At the same time it was impossible for her to pursue such a course of conduct as this, unless she possessed a freedom of action which was quite incompatible with her continuing to occupy the dependent position of a governess. For that reason she felt it incumbent on her to leave her situation. But, while doing this, she was equally determined not to lead to any misinterpretation of her motives by leaving the neighborhood. No matter at what inconvenience to herself, she would remain long enough at Thorpe Ambrose to await any more definitely expressed imputations that might be made on her character, and to repel them publicly the instant they assumed a tangible form. 

"Such is the position which this high-minded lady has taken up, with an excellent effect on the public mind in these parts. It is clearly her interest, for some reason, to leave her situation, without leaving the neighborhood. On Monday last she established herself in a cheap lodging on the outskirts of the town. And on the same day she probably wrote to her reference, for yesterday there came a letter from that lady to Major Milroy, full of virtuous indignation, and courting the fullest inquiry. The letter has been shown publicly, and has immensely strengthened Miss Gwilt's position. She is now considered to be quite a heroine. The _Thorpe Ambrose Mercury_ has got a leading article about her, comparing her to Joan of Arc. It is considered probable that she will be referred to in the sermon next Sunday. We reckon five strong-minded single ladies in this neighborhood -- and all five have called on her. A testimonial was suggested; but it has been given up at Miss Gwilt's own request, and a general movement is now on foot to get her employment as a teacher of music. Lastly, I have had the honor of a visit from the lady herself, in her capacity of martyr, to tell me, in the sweetest manner, that she doesn't blame Mr. Armadale, and that she considers him to be an innocent instrument in the hands of other and more designing people. I was carefully on my guard with her; for I don't altogether believe in Miss Gwilt, and I have my lawyer's suspicions of the motive that is at the bottom of her present proceedings. 

"I have written thus far, my dear sir, with little hesitation or embarrassment. But there is unfortunately a serious side to this business as well as a ridiculous side; and I must unwillingly come to it before I close my letter. 

"It is, I think, quite impossible that you can permit yourself to be spoken of as you are spoken of now, without stirring personally in the matter. You have unluckily made many enemies here, and foremost among them is my colleague, Mr. Darch. He has been showing everywhere a somewhat rashly expressed letter you wrote to him on the subject of letting the cottage to Major Milroy instead of to himself, and it has helped to exasperate the feeling against you. It is roundly stated in so many words that you have been prying into Miss Gwilt's family affairs, with the most dishonorable motives; that you have tried, for a profligate purpose of your own, to damage her reputation, and to deprive her of the protection of Major Milroy's roof; and that, after having been asked to substantiate by proof the suspicions that you have cast on the reputation of a defenseless woman, you have maintained a silence which condemns you in the estimation of all honorable men. 

"I hope it is quite unnecessary for me to say that I don't attach the smallest particle of credit to these infamous reports. But they are too widely spread and too widely believed to be treated with contempt. I strongly urge you to return at once to this place, and to take the necessary measures for defending your character, in concert with me, as your legal adviser. I have formed, since my interview with Miss Gwilt, a very strong opinion of my own on the subject of that lady which it is not necessary to commit to paper. Suffice it to say here that I shall have a means to propose to you for silencing the slanderous tongues of your neighbors, on the success of which I stake my professional reputation, if you will only back me by your presence and authority. 

"It may, perhaps, help to show you the necessity there is for your return, if I mention one other assertion respecting yourself, which is in everybody's mouth. Your absence is, I regret to tell you, attributed to the meanest of all motives. It is said that you are remaining in London because you are afraid to show your face at Thorpe Ambrose. 

"Believe me, dear sir, your faithful servant, 

"A. PEDGIFT, Sen
Where's the time-table
I must go back to Thorpe Ambrose by the next train! If it doesn't start directly, I'll have a special engine. I must and will go back instantly, and I don't care two straws for the expense
Suppose we telegraph to my father, sir
It's the quickest way of expressing your feelings, and the cheapest
So it is
Thank you for reminding me of it. Telegraph to them! Tell your father to give every man in Thorpe Ambrose the lie direct, in my name. Put it in capital letters, Pedgift -- put it in capital letters
It won't have the least effect on them, Mr. Armadale
They'll only go on lying harder than ever. If you want to upset the whole town, one line will do it. With five shillings' worth of human labor and electric fluid, sir (I dabble a little in science after business hours), we'll explode a bombshell in Thorpe Ambrose
A. Pedgift, Junior, to A. Pedgift, Senior.-- Spread it all over the place that Mr. Armadale is coming down by the next train
More words
Make it stronger
Leave my father to make it stronger, sir
My father is on the spot, and his command of language is something quite extraordinary
Can you guess your father's plan for setting me right in the neighborhood
His plan appears to be connected in some way, sir, with his opinion of Miss Gwilt
I wonder what he thinks of her
I shouldn't be surprised, Mr. Armadale
if his opinion staggers you a little, when you come to hear it. My father has had a large legal experience of the shady side of the sex, and he learned his profession at the Old Bailey
Let's be doing something to kill the time
Let's pack up and pay the bill
From Lydia Gwilt to Maria Oldershaw.-- Good news! He is coming back. I mean to have an interview with him. Everything looks well. Now I have left the cottage, I have no women's prying eyes to dread, and I can come and go as I please. Mr. Midwinter is luckily out of the way. I don't despair of becoming Mrs. Armadale yet. Whatever happens, depend on my keeping away from London until I am certain of not taking any spies after me to your place. I am in no hurry to leave Thorpe Ambrose. I mean to be even with Miss Milroy first
Pedgift's postscript
By-the-by, there's a point occurs to me
Good-evening, Mr. Armadale. Many thanks for your prompt attention to my very disagreeable letter
I hope you understand, sir, that I had really no choice under the circumstances but to write as I did
I have very few friends, Mr. Pedgift
And I am sure you are one of the few
Much obliged, Mr. Armadale. I have always tried to deserve your good opinion, and I mean, if I can, to deserve it now. You found yourself comfortable, I hope, sir, at the hotel in London? We call it Our hotel. Some rare old wine in the cellar, which I should have introduced to your notice if I had had the honor of being with you. My son unfortunately knows nothing about wine
The hotel was very comfortable, Mr. Pedgift, and your son was very kind to me. But we are not in London now; and I want to talk to you about how I am to meet the lies that are being told of me in this place. Only point me out any one man
any one man who says I am afraid to show my face in the neighborhood, and I'll horsewhip him publicly before another day is over his head
You can horsewhip a man, sir; but you can't horsewhip a neighborhood
We will fight our battle, if you please, without borrowing our weapons of the coachman yet a while, at any rate
But how are we to begin
How am I to contradict the infamous things they say of me
There are two ways of stepping out of your present awkward position, sir -- a short way, and a long way
The short way (which is always the best) has occurred to me since I have heard of your proceedings in London from my son. I understand that you permitted him, after you received my letter, to take me into your confidence. I have drawn various conclusions from what he has told me, which I may find it necessary to trouble you with presently. In the meantime I should be glad to know under what circumstances you went to London to make these unfortunate inquiries about Miss Gwilt? Was it your own notion to pay that visit to Mrs. Mandeville? or were you acting under the influence of some other person
I can't honestly tell you it was my own notion
I thought as much
The short way out of our present difficulty, Mr. Armadale, lies straight through that other person, under whose influence you acted. That other person must be presented forthwith to public notice, and must stand in that other person's proper place. The name, if you please, sir, to begin with -- we'll come to the circumstances directly
I am sorry to say, Mr. Pedgift, that we must try the longest way, if you have no objection
The short way happens to be a way I can't take on this occasion
Very good, sir
The choice rests with you, and you have chosen. We will go the long way. It starts (allow me to inform you) from my office; and it leads (as I strongly suspect) through a very miry road to -- Miss Gwilt
If you won't expose the person who is responsible in the first instance, sir, for the inquiries to which you unfortunately lent yourself
the only other alternative, in your present position, is to justify the inquiries themselves
And how is that to be done
By proving to the whole neighborhood, Mr. Armadale, what I firmly believe to be the truth -- that the pet object of the public protection is an adventuress of the worst class; an undeniably worthless and dangerous woman. In plainer English still, sir, by employing time enough and money enough to discover the truth about Miss Gwilt
I told you I was not to be interrupted
Good heavens! am I never to have done with them? Another letter
Yes, sir
And
the person waits for an answer
Who can it be
Miss Gwilt
I have known a good many of them in my time, sir
Not as handsome as Miss Gwilt, I admit. But quite as bad, I dare say. Read your letter, Mr. Armadale -- read your letter
Miss Gwilt presents her compliments to Mr. Armadale and begs to know if it will be convenient to him to favor her with an interview, either this evening or to-morrow morning. Miss Gwilt offers no apology for making her present request. She believes Mr. Armadale will grant it as an act of justice toward a friendless woman whom he has been innocently the means of injuring, and who is earnestly desirous to set herself right in his estimation
What a lawyer she would have made
if she had only been a man
I can't treat this as lightly as you do, Mr. Pedgift
It's dreadfully distressing to me. I was so fond of her
I was so fond of her once
Do you mean to say, sir, that you actually contemplate seeing Miss Gwilt
I can't treat her cruelly
Mr. Armadale
you did me the honor, a little while since, to say that you considered me your friend. May I presume on that position to ask you a question or two, before you go straight to your own ruin
Any questions you like
You have had one trap set for you already, sir, and you have fallen into it. Do you want to fall into another
You know the answer to that question, Mr. Pedgift, as well as I do
I'll try again, Mr. Armadale; we lawyers are not easily discouraged. Do you think that any statement Miss Gwilt might make to you, if you do see her, would be a statement to be relied on, after what you and my son discovered in London
She might explain what we discovered in London
_Might_ explain it? My dear sir, she is quite certain to explain it! I will do her justice: I believe she would make out a case without a single flaw in it from beginning to end
If you see that woman again, sir
you will commit the rashest act of folly I ever heard of in all my experience. She can have but one object in coming here -- to practice on your weakness for her. Nobody can say into what false step she may not lead you, if you once give her the opportunity. You admit yourself that you have been fond of her; your attentions to her have been the subject of general remark; if you haven't actually offered her the chance of becoming Mrs. Armadale, you have done the next thing to it; and knowing all this, you propose to see her, and to let her work on you with her devilish beauty and her devilish cleverness, in the character of your interesting victim! You, who are one of the best matches in England! You, who are the natural prey of all the hungry single women in the community! I never heard the like of it; I never, in all my professional experience, heard the like of it! If you must positively put yourself in a dangerous position, Mr. Armadale
there's a wild-beast show coming to our town next week. Let in the tigress, sir; don't let in Miss Gwilt
You seem to have a very bad opinion of Miss Gwilt
The worst possible opinion, Mr. Armadale
We will return to that when we have sent the lady's messenger about his business. Will you take my advice? Will you decline to see her
I would willingly decline -- it would be so dreadfully distressing to both of us
I would willingly decline, if I only knew how
Bless my soul, Mr. Armadale, it's easy enough! Don't commit _you_ yourself in writing. Send out to the messenger, and say there's no answer
It's treating her brutally
I can't and won't do it
Mr. Armadale presents his compliments to Miss Gwilt, and regrets that he cannot have the pleasure of seeing her at Thorpe Ambrose
When you say No to a woman, sir
always say it in one word. If you give her your reasons, she invariably believes that you mean Yes
see the fellow, whoever he was, well clear of the house
Now, sir
we will come back, if you like, to my opinion of Miss Gwilt. It doesn't at all agree with yours, I'm afraid. You think her an object of pity -- quite natural at your age. I think her an object for the inside of a prison -- quite natural at mine. You shall hear the grounds on which I have formed my opinion directly. Let me show you that I am in earnest by putting the opinion itself, in the first place, to a practical test. Do you think Miss Gwilt is likely to persist in paying you a visit, Mr. Armadale, after the answer you have just sent to her
Quite impossible
Miss Gwilt is a lady; after the letter I have sent to her, she will never come near me again
There we join issue, sir
I say she will snap her fingers at your letter (which was one of the reasons why I objected to your writing it). I say, she is in all probability waiting her messenger's return, in or near your grounds at this moment. I say, she will try to force her way in here, before four-and-twenty hours more are over your head. Egad, sir
it's only seven o'clock now. She's bold enough and clever enough to catch you unawares this very evening. Permit me to ring for the servant -- permit me to request that you will give him orders immediately to say you are not at home. You needn't hesitate, Mr. Armadale! If you're right about Miss Gwilt, it's a mere formality. If I'm right, it's a wise precaution. Back your opinion, sir
I back mine
You give the order
You're a good fellow
The claws of that she-devil shan't scratch you if I can help it
If Miss Gwilt calls here, either this evening, or at any other time
Mr. Armadale is not at home. Wait! If she asks when Mr. Armadale will be back, you don't know. Wait! If she proposes coming in and sitting down, you have a general order that nobody is to come in and sit down unless they have a previous appointment with Mr. Armadale. Come
I've stopped her out now, at any rate! The orders are all given, Mr. Armadale. We may go on with our conversation
The conversation is not a very pleasant one
No offense to you, but I wish it was over
We will get it over as soon as possible, sir
Let us go back, if you please, to the practical suggestion which I offered to you when the servant came in with Miss Gwilt's note. There is, I repeat, only one way left for you, Mr. Armadale, out of your present awkward position. You must pursue your inquiries about this woman to an end -- on the chance (which I consider next to a certainty) that the end will justify you in the estimation of the neighborhood
I wish to God I had never made any inquiries at all
Nothing will induce me, Mr. Pedgift, to make any more
Why
Can you ask me why
after your son has told you what we found out in London? Even if I had less cause to be -- to be sorry for Miss Gwilt than I have; even if it was some other woman, do you think I would inquire any further into the secret of a poor betrayed creature -- much less expose it to the neighborhood? I should think myself as great a scoundrel as the man who has cast her out helpless on the world, if I did anything of the kind. I wonder you can ask me the question -- upon my soul, I wonder you can ask me the question
Give me your hand, Mr. Armadale
I honor you for being so angry with me. The neighborhood may say what it pleases; you're a gentleman, sir, in the best sense of the word. Now
just hear what I have got to say in my own defense. Suppose Miss Gwilt's real position happens to be nothing like what you are generously determined to believe it to be
We have no reason to suppose that
Such is your opinion, sir
Mine, founded on what is publicly known of Miss Gwilt's proceedings here, and on what I have seen of Miss Gwilt herself, is that she is as far as I am from being the sentimental victim you are inclined to make her out. Gently, Mr. Armadale! remember that I have put my opinion to a practical test, and wait to condemn it off-hand until events have justified you. Let me put my points, sir -- make allowances for me as a lawyer -- and let me put my points. You and my son are young men; and I don't deny that the circumstances, on the surface, appear to justify the interpretation which, as young men, you have placed on them. I am an old man -- I know that circumstances are not always to be taken as they appear on the surface -- and I possess the great advantage, in the present case, of having had years of professional experience among some of the wickedest women who ever walked this earth
All Miss Gwilt's proceedings
since your unfortunate correspondence with the major show me that she is an old hand at deceit. The moment she is threatened with exposure -- exposure of some kind, there can be no doubt, after what you discovered in London -- she turns your honorable silence to the best possible account, and leaves the major's service in the character of a martyr. Once out of the house, what does she do next? She boldly stops in the neighborhood, and serves three excellent purposes by doing so. In the first place, she shows everybody that she is not afraid of facing another attack on her reputation. In the second place, she is close at hand to twist you round her little finger, and to become Mrs. Armadale in spite of circumstances, if you (and I) allow her the opportunity. In the third place, if you (and I) are wise enough to distrust her, she is equally wise on her side, and doesn't give us the first great chance of following her to London, and associating her with her accomplices. Is this the conduct of an unhappy woman who has lost her character in a moment of weakness, and who has been driven unwillingly into a deception to get it back again
You put it cleverly
I can't deny that you put it cleverly
Your own common sense, Mr. Armadale, is beginning to tell you that I put it justly
I don't presume to say yet what this woman's connection may be with those people at Pimlico. All I assert is that it is not the connection you suppose. Having stated the facts so far, I have only to add my own personal impression of Miss Gwilt. I won't shock you, if I can help it; I'll try if I can't put it cleverly again. She came to my office (as I told you in my letter), no doubt to make friends with your lawyer, if she could; she came to tell me, in the most forgiving and Christian manner, that she didn't blame _you_
Do you ever believe in anybody, Mr. Pedgift
Sometimes, Mr. Armadale
I believe as often as a lawyer can. To proceed, sir. When I was in the criminal branch of practice, it fell to my lot to take instructions for the defense of women committed for trial from the women's own lips. Whatever other difference there might be among them, I got, in time, to notice, among those who were particularly wicked and unquestionably guilty, one point in which they all resembled each other. Tall and short, old and young, handsome and ugly, they all had a secret self-possession that nothing could shake. On the surface they were as different as possible. Some of them were in a state of indignation; some of them were drowned in tears; some of them were full of pious confidence; and some of them were resolved to commit suicide before the night was out. But only put your finger suddenly on the weak point in the story told by any one of them, and there was an end of her rage, or her tears, or her piety, or her despair; and out came the genuine woman, in full possession of all her resources with a neat little lie that exactly suited the circumstances of the case. Miss Gwilt was in tears, sir -- becoming tears that didn't make her nose red -- and I put my finger suddenly on the weak point in _her_ story. Down dropped her pathetic pocket-handkerchief from her beautiful blue eyes, and out came the genuine woman with the neat little lie that exactly suited the circumstances! I felt twenty years younger, Mr. Armadale, on the spot. I declare I thought I was in Newgate again, with my note-book in my hand, taking my instructions for the defense
The next thing you'll say, Mr. Pedgift
is that Miss Gwilt has been in prison
She may have richly deserved to see the inside of a prison, Mr. Armadale; but, in the age we live in, that is one excellent reason for her never having been near any place of the kind. A prison, in the present tender state of public feeling, for a charming woman like Miss Gwilt! My dear sir, if she had attempted to murder you or me, and if an inhuman judge and jury had decided on sending her to a prison, the first object of modern society would be to prevent her going into it; and, if that couldn't be done, the next object would be to let her out again as soon as possible. Read your newspaper, Mr. Armadale, and you'll find we live in piping times for the black sheep of the community -- if they are only black enough. I insist on asserting, sir, that we have got one of the blackest of the lot to deal with in this case. I insist on asserting that you have had the rare luck, in these unfortunate inquiries, to pitch on a woman who happens to be a fit object for inquiry, in the interests of the public protection. Differ with me as strongly as you please, but don't make up your mind finally about Miss Gwilt until events have put those two opposite opinions of ours to the test that I have proposed. A fairer test there can't be. I agree with you that no lady worthy of the name could attempt to force her way in here, after receiving your letter. But I deny that Miss Gwilt is worthy of the name; and I say she will try to force her way in here in spite of you
And I say she won't
No
Yes
Anybody for me
Miss Gwilt
I don't want to crow over you, sir
But what do you think of Miss Gwilt _now_
Time is of some importance, Mr. Armadale. After what has just happened, do you still object to taking the course I have had the honor of suggesting to you
I can't, Mr. Pedgift
I can't be the means of disgracing her in the neighborhood. I would rather be disgraced myself -- as I am
Let me put it in another way, sir. Excuse my persisting. You have been very kind to me and my family; and I have a personal interest, as well as a professional interest, in you. If you can't prevail on yourself to show this woman's character in its true light, will you take common precautions to prevent her doing any more harm? Will you consent to having her privately watched as long as she remains in this neighborhood
Is that your final resolution, sir
It is, Mr. Pedgift; but I am much obliged to you for your advice, all the same
Good-evening, sir
Pedgift's postscript
Good-evening
By-the-by, there's a point occurs to me
I mentioned that a point had occurred to me, sir
You did
Would you like to hear what it is, Mr. Armadale
If you please
With all my heart, sir! This is the point. I attach considerable importance -- if nothing else can be done -- to having Miss Gwilt privately looked after, as long as she stops at Thorpe Ambrose. It struck me just now at the door, Mr. Armadale, that what you are not willing to do for your own security, you might be willing to do for the security of another person
What other person
A young lady who is a near neighbor of yours, sir. Shall I mention the name in confidence? Miss Milroy
Miss Milroy
Can _she_ be concerned in this miserable business? I hope not, Mr. Pedgift; I sincerely hope not
I paid a visit, in your interests, sir, at the cottage this morning
You shall hear what happened there, and judge for yourself. Major Milroy has been expressing his opinion of you pretty freely; and I thought it highly desirable to give him a caution. It's always the way with those quiet addle-headed men: when they do once wake up, there's no reasoning with their obstinacy, and no quieting their violence. Well, sir, this morning I went to the cottage. The major and Miss Neelie were both in the parlor -- miss not looking so pretty as usual; pale, I thought, pale, and worn, and anxious. Up jumps the addle-headed major (I wouldn't give _that_, Mr. Armadale, for the brains of a man who can occupy himself for half his lifetime n making a clock!)-- up jumps the addle-headed major, in the loftiest manner, and actually tries to look me down. Ha! ha! the idea of anybody looking _me_ down, at my time of life. I behaved like a Christian; I nodded kindly to old What's-o'clock 'Fine morning, major,' says I. 'Have you any business with me?' says he. 'Just a word,' says I. Miss Neelie, like the sensible girl she is, gets up to leave the room; and what does her ridiculous father do? He stops her. 'You needn't go, my dear, I have nothing to say to Mr. Pedgift,' says this old military idiot, and turns my way, and tries to look me down again. 'You are Mr. Armadale's lawyer,' says he; 'if you come on any business relating to Mr. Armadale, I refer you to my solicitor.' (His solicitor is Darch; and Darch has had enough of _me_ in business, I can tell you!) 'My errand here, major, does certainly relate to Mr. Armadale,' says I; 'but it doesn't concern your lawyer -- at any rate, just yet. I wish to caution you to suspend your opinion of my client, or, if you won't do that, to be careful how you express it in public. I warn you that our turn is to come, and that you are not at the end yet of this scandal about Miss Gwilt.' It struck me as likely that he would lose his temper when he found himself tackled in that way, and he amply fulfilled my expectations. He was quite violent in his language -- the poor weak creature -- actually violent with _me_! I behaved like a Christian again; I nodded kindly, and wished him good-morning. When I looked round to wish Miss Neelie good-morning, too, she was gone. You seem restless, Mr. Armadale
I won't try your patience much longer, sir; I am coming to the point
I beg your pardon, Mr. Pedgift
Well, sir, I left the cottage
You ought to have told her at once that I thought nothing of the kind
Why did you leave her a moment in doubt about it
Because I am a lawyer, Mr. Armadale
Even in moments of sentiment, under convenient trees, with a pretty girl on my arm, I can't entirely divest myself of my professional caution. Don't look distressed, sir, pray! I set things right in due course of time. Before I left Miss Milroy, I told her, in the plainest terms, no such idea had ever entered your head
Did she seem relieved
She was able to dispense with the use of my arm, sir
and to pledge me to inviolable secrecy on the subject of our interview. She was particularly desirous that _you_ should hear nothing about it. If you are at all anxious on your side to know why I am now betraying her confidence, I beg to inform you that her confidence related to no less a person than the lady who favored you with a call just now -- Miss Gwilt
Is this serious
Most serious, sir
I am betraying Miss Neelie's secret, in Miss Neelie's own interest. Let us go back to that cautious question I put to her. She found some little difficulty in answering it, for the reply involved her in a narrative of the parting interview between her governess and herself. This is the substance of it. The two were alone when Miss Gwilt took leave of her pupil; and the words she used (as reported to me by Miss Neelie) were these. She said, 'Your mother has declined to allow me to take leave of her. Do you decline too?' Miss Neelie's answer was a remarkably sensible one for a girl of her age. 'We have not been good friends,' she said, 'and I believe we are equally glad to part with each other. But I have no wish to decline taking leave of you.' Saying that, she held out her hand. Miss Gwilt stood looking at her steadily, without taking it, and addressed her in these words: '_You are not Mrs. Armadale yet_.' Gently, sir! Keep your temper. It's not at all wonderful that a woman, conscious of having her own mercenary designs on you, should attribute similar designs to a young lady who happens to be your near neighbor. Let me go on. Miss Neelie, by her own confession (and quite naturally, I think), was excessively indignant. She owns to having answered, 'You shameless creature, how dare you say that to me!' Miss Gwilt's rejoinder was rather a remarkable one -- the anger, on her side, appears to have been of the cool, still, venomous kind. 'Nobody ever yet injured me, Miss Milroy,' she said, 'without sooner or later bitterly repenting it. _You_ will bitterly repent it.' She stood looking at her pupil for a moment in dead silence, and then left the room. Miss Neelie appears to have felt the imputation fastened on her, in connection with you, far more sensitively than she felt the threat. She had previously known, as everybody had known in the house, that some unacknowledged proceedings of yours in London had led to Miss Gwilt's voluntary withdrawal from her situation. And she now inferred, from the language addressed to her, that she was actually believed by Miss Gwilt to have set those proceedings on foot, to advance herself, and to injure her governess, in your estimation. Gently, sir, gently! I haven't quite done yet. As soon as Miss Neelie had recovered herself, she went upstairs to speak to Mrs. Milroy. Miss Gwilt's abominable imputation had taken her by surprise; and she went to her mother first for enlightenment and advice. She got neither the one nor the other. Mrs. Milroy declared she was too ill to enter on the subject, and she has remained too ill to enter on it ever since. Miss Neelie applied next to her father. The major stopped her the moment your name passed her lips: he declared he would never hear you mentioned again by any member of his family. She has been left in the dark from that time to this, not knowing how she might have been misrepresented by Miss Gwilt, or what falsehoods you might have been led to believe of her. At my age and in my profession, I don't profess to have any extraordinary softness of heart. But I do think, Mr. Armadale, that Miss Neelie's position deserves our sympathy
I'll do anything to help her
You don't know, Mr. Pedgift, what reason I have
I'll do anything
anything in the world to help her
Do you really mean that, Mr. Armadale? Excuse my asking; but you can very materially help Miss Neelie, if you choose
How
Only tell me how
By giving me your authority, sir, to protect her from Miss Gwilt
Your son is hard enough to deal with, Mr. Pedgift
and you are harder than your son
Thank you, sir
in my son's name and my own, for a handsome compliment to the firm. If you really wish to be of assistance to Miss Neelie
I have shown you the way. You can do nothing to quiet her anxiety which I have not done already. As soon as I had assured her that no misconception of her conduct existed in your mind, she went away satisfied. Her governess's parting threat doesn't seem to have dwelt on her memory. I can tell you, Mr. Armadale, it dwells on mine! You know my opinion of Miss Gwilt; and you know what Miss Gwilt herself has done this very evening to justify that opinion even in your eyes. May I ask, after all that has passed, whether you think she is the sort of woman who can be trusted to confine herself to empty threats
Is there no other way of protecting Miss Milroy but the way you have mentioned
Do you think the major would listen to you, sir, if you spoke to him
I'm rather afraid he wouldn't honor _me_ with his attention. Or perhaps you would prefer alarming Miss Neelie by telling her in plain words that we both think her in danger? Or, suppose you send me to Miss Gwilt, with instructions to inform her that she has done her pupil a cruel injustice? Women are so proverbially ready to listen to reason; and they are so universally disposed to alter their opinions of each other on application -- especially when one woman thinks that another woman has destroyed her prospect of making a good marriage. Don't mind _me_, Mr. Armadale; I'm only a lawyer, and I can sit waterproof under another shower of Miss Gwilt's tears
Damn it, Mr. Pedgift, tell me in plain words what you want to do
In plain words, Mr. Armadale, I want to keep Miss Gwilt's proceedings privately under view, as long as she stops in this neighborhood. I answer for finding a person who will look after her delicately and discreetly. And I agree to discontinue even this harmless superintendence of her actions, if there isn't good reasons shown for continuing it, to your entire satisfaction, in a week's time. I make that moderate proposal, sir, in what I sincerely believe to be Miss Milroy's interest, and I wait your answer, Yes or No
Can't I have time to consider
Certainly, Mr. Armadale. But don't forget, while you are considering, that Miss Milroy is in the habit of walking out alone in your park, innocent of all apprehension of danger, and that Miss Gwilt is perfectly free to take any advantage of that circumstance that Miss Gwilt pleases
Do as you like
And, for God's sake, don't torment me any longer
the soft answer which turneth away wrath
Many thanks, sir
for the attention you have bestowed on me. I congratulate you on your decision, and I wish you good-evening
If it was only the end of the week
If I only had Midwinter back again
Hie away, old girl
I never keep a lady waiting -- and I've got business to-night with one of your own sex
the great house
the great house
She's coming
I wish I was the ground she treads on! I wish I was the glove she's got on her hand
Mr. Bashwood
what a surprise to find you here! I thought none but the wretched inhabitants ever ventured near this side of the town. Hush
You heard right when you heard that Mr. Armadale was going to have me followed and watched. There's a man behind one of the houses. We must talk out loud of indifferent things, and look as if we had met by accident. Ask me what I am doing. Out loud! Directly! You shall never see me again, if you don't instantly leave off trembling and do what I tell you
I am trying to earn a little money by teaching music
If you are able to recommend me any pupils, Mr. Bashwood, your good word will oblige me. Have you been in the grounds to-day
Has Mr. Armadale been near the cottage? Has Miss Milroy been out of the garden? No? Are you sure? Look out for them to-morrow, and next day, and next day. They are certain to meet and make it up again, and I must and will know of it. Hush! Ask me my terms for teaching music. What are you frightened about? It's me the man's after -- not you. Louder than when you asked me what I was doing, just now; louder, or I won't trust you any more; I'll go to somebody else
Don't be angry with me
My heart beats so you'll kill me
What business have you with a heart at your age? Be here to-morrow at the same time, and tell me what you have seen in the grounds. My terms are only five shillings a lesson
I'm sure that's not much, Mr. Bashwood; I give such long lessons, and I get all my pupils' music half-price
Don't let Mr. Armadale out of your sight to-morrow! If that girl manages to speak to him, and if I don't hear of it, I'll frighten you to death. If I _do_ hear of it, I'll kiss you! Hush! Wish me good-night, and go on to the town, and leave me to go the other way. I don't want you -- I'm not afraid of the man behind the houses; I can deal with him by myself. Say goodnight, and I'll let you shake hands. Say it louder, and I'll give you one of my flowers, if you'll promise not to fall in love with it
Goodnight, Mr. Bashwood! Don't forget my terms. Five shillings a lesson, and the lessons last an hour at a time, and I get all my pupils' music half-price, which is an immense advantage, isn't it
Oh, if I was only young again
She might have liked me when I was twenty
She told me to go home
Why am I stopping here
I'll catch him there
My compliments to Mr. Armadale
and tell him I've caught you watching me
I'm not watching you, miss
Take your hat off, you blackguard, when you speak to a lady
It's well for you you're a woman
I wonder whether I'm strong enough to throw you after your hat
I'll take a turn and consider it
Try it
You're a fine woman; you're welcome to put your arms round me if you like
Is it possible
Can it really be you
Miss Gwilt
I should have been glad to see you at any time
You don't know how glad I am to see you now. May I trouble you to speak to that man? He has been following me, and annoying me all the way from the town
No
you don't know who his employer is
Strange things have happened since you left us
I have been forced to give up my situation, and I am followed and watched by a paid spy. Don't ask who forced me out of my situation, and who pays the spy -- at least not just yet. I can't make up my mind to tell you till I am a little more composed. Let the wretch go. Do you mind seeing me safe back to my lodging? It's in your way home. May I -- may I ask for the support of your arm? My little stock of courage is quite exhausted
They say necessity has no law
I am treating you like an old friend. God knows I want one
It is bad enough to be a burden on you
I mustn't distress you as well. Tell me where you have been, and what you have seen. Interest me in your journey; help me to escape from myself
I have taken refuge here
It is clean and quiet; I am too poor to want or expect more. We must say good-by, I suppose, unless
unless you would like to come in and rest a little? I feel so gratefully toward you, Mr. Midwinter! Is there any harm, do you think, in my offering you a cup of tea
The urn, John
and another cup and saucer. I'll borrow your candle to light my candles upstairs, and then I won't trouble you any more to-night
No trouble, miss
How good people are to me
No
in the good old times there were occasions when the ladies unarmed their knights. I claim the privilege of unarming _my_ knight
Women are not all coquettes
I won't go into my room, and look in my glass, and make myself smart; you shall take me just as I am
Should I be wrong
if I guessed that you have something on your mind -- something which neither my tea nor my talk can charm away? Are men as curious as women? Is the something -- Me
I am very anxious to hear what has happened since I have been away
But I am still more anxious, Miss Gwilt, not to distress you by speaking of a painful subject
It is for your sake that I have avoided the painful subject
But you will hear about it from others, if you don't hear about it from me; and you ought to know why you found me in that strange situation, and why you see me here. Pray remember one thing, to begin with. I don't blame your friend, Mr. Armadale. I blame the people whose instrument he is
Is it possible
that Allan can be in any way answerable
Don't be angry with me for only telling the truth
Your friend is answerable for everything that has happened to me -- innocently answerable, Mr. Midwinter, I firmly believe. We are both victims. _He_ is the victim of his position as the richest single man in the neighborhood; and I am the victim of Miss Milroy's determination to marry him
Miss Milroy
Why, Allan himself told me
He told you that I was the object of his admiration? Poor fellow, he admires everybody; his head is almost as empty as this
I am guilty of the vanity of having let him admire me
without the excuse of being able, on my side, to reciprocate even the passing interest that he felt in me. I don't undervalue his many admirable qualities, or the excellent position he can offer to his wife. But a woman's heart is not to be commanded -- no, Mr. Midwinter, not even by the fortunate master of Thorpe Ambrose, who commands everything else
I have been guilty of the vanity of letting Mr. Armadale admire me, and I have suffered for it
If there had been any confidence between my pupil and me, I might have easily satisfied her that she might become Mrs. Armadale -- if she could -- without having any rivalry to fear on my part. But Miss Milroy disliked and distrusted me from the first. She took her own jealous view, no doubt, of Mr. Armadale's thoughtless attentions to me. It was her interest to destroy the position, such as it was, that I held in his estimation; and it is quite likely her mother assisted her. Mrs. Milroy had her motive also (which I am really ashamed to mention) for wishing to drive me out of the house. Anyhow, the conspiracy has succeeded. I have been forced (with Mr. Armadale's help) to leave the major's service. Don't be angry, Mr. Midwinter! Don't form a hasty opinion! I dare say Miss Milroy has some good qualities, though I have not found them out; and I assure you again and again that I don't blame Mr. Armadale. I only blame the people whose instrument he is
How is he their instrument? How can he be the instrument of any enemy of yours
Pray excuse my anxiety, Miss Gwilt: Allan's good name is as dear to me as my own
How I admire your earnestness
How I like your anxiety for your friend! Oh, if women could only form such friendships! Oh you happy, happy men
I would give all the little beauty I possess
if I could only find such a friend as Mr. Armadale has found in _you_. I never shall, Mr. Midwinter -- I never shall. Let us go back to what we were talking about. I can only tell you how your friend is concerned in my misfortune by telling you something first about myself. I am like many other governesses; I am the victim of sad domestic circumstances. It may be weak of me, but I have a horror of alluding to them among strangers. My silence about my family and my friends exposes me to misinterpretation in my dependent position. Does it do me any harm, Mr. Midwinter, in your estimation
God forbid
There is no man living
who has better reason to understand and respect your silence than I have
Oh
I knew it, the first moment I saw you! I knew that you, too, had suffered; that you, too, had sorrows which you kept sacred! Strange, strange sympathy! I believe in mesmerism -- do you
Oh, what have I done? What must you think of me
Spare me
I am so friendless -- I am so completely at your mercy
How that man loves me
I wonder whether there was a time when I might have loved _him_
Shall I go on with my story
Shall we forget and forgive on both sides
I was telling you
of my reluctance to speak to strangers of my sad family story. It was in that way, as I afterward found out, that I laid myself open to Miss Milroy's malice and Miss Milroy's suspicion. Private inquiries about me were addressed to the lady who was my reference -- at Miss Milroy's suggestion, in the first instance, I have no doubt. I am sorry to say, this is not the worst of it. By some underhand means, of which I am quite ignorant, Mr. Armadale's simplicity was imposed on; and, when application was made secretly to my reference in London, it was made, Mr. Midwinter, through your friend
Remember how weak he is
and make allowances for him as I do. The trifling accident of his failing to find my reference at the address given him seems, I can't imagine why, to have excited Mr. Armadale's suspicion. At any rate, he remained in London. What he did there, it is impossible for me to say. I was quite in the dark; I knew nothing: I distrusted nobody; I was as happy in my little round of duties as I could be with a pupil whose affections I had failed to win, when, one morning, to my indescribable astonishment, Major Milroy showed me a correspondence between Mr. Armadale and himself. He spoke to me in his wife's presence. Poor creature, I make no complaint of her; such affliction as she suffers excuses everything. I wish I could give you some idea of the letters between Major Milroy and Mr. Armadale; but my head is only a woman's head, and I was so confused and distressed at the time! All I can tell you is that Mr. Armadale chose to preserve silence about his proceedings in London, under circumstances which made that silence a reflection on my character. The major was most kind; his confidence in me remained unshaken; but could his confidence protect me against his wife's prejudice and his daughter's ill-will? Oh, the hardness of women to each other! Oh, the humiliation if men only knew some of us as we really are! What could I do? I couldn't defend myself against mere imputations; and I couldn't remain in my situation after a slur had been cast on me. My pride (Heaven help me, I was brought up like a gentlewoman, and I have sensibilities that are not blunted even yet!)-- my pride got the better of me, and I left my place. Don't let it distress you, Mr. Midwinter! There's a bright side to the picture. The ladies in the neighborhood have overwhelmed me with kindness; I have the prospect of getting pupils to teach; I am spared the mortification of going back to be a burden on my friends. The only complaint I have to make is, I think, a just one. Mr. Armadale has been back at Thorpe Ambrose for some days. I have entreated him, by letter, to grant me an interview; to tell me what dreadful suspicions he has of me, and to let me set myself right in his estimation. Would you believe it? He has declined to see me -- under the influence of others, not of his own free will, I am sure! Cruel, isn't it? But he has even used me more cruelly still; he persists in suspecting me; it is he who is having me watched. Oh, Mr. Midwinter, don't hate me for telling you what you _must_ know! The man you found persecuting me and frightening me tonight was only earning his money, after all, as Mr. Armadale's spy
I can't believe it; I won't believe it
If the man told you that, the man lied. I beg your pardon, Miss Gwilt; I beg your pardon from the bottom of my heart. Don't, pray don't think I doubt _you_; I only say there is some dreadful mistake. I am not sure that I understand as I ought all that you have told me. But this last infamous meanness of which you think Allan guilty, I _do_ understand. I swear to you, he is incapable of it! Some scoundrel has been taking advantage of him; some scoundrel has been using his name. I'll prove it to you, if you will only give me time. Let me go and clear it up at once. I can't rest; I can't bear to think of it; I can't even enjoy the pleasure of being here. Oh
I'm sure you feel for me, after what you have said -- I feel so for _you_
You are the most generous of living men
I will believe what you tell me to believe. Go
For both our sakes, go
It's even baser work than I bargained for
to deceive _him_
You strange creature
Have you got any conscience left? And has that man roused it
What am I doing
Am I mad enough to be thinking of him in _that_ way
It's high time I had some talk with Mother Jezebel
I have met with Mr. Midwinter
under very lucky circumstances; and I have made the most of my opportunity. He has just left me for his friend Armadale; and one of two good things will happen to-morrow. If they don't quarrel, the doors of Thorpe Ambrose will be opened to me again at Mr. Midwinter's intercession. If they do quarrel, I shall be the unhappy cause of it, and I shall find my way in for myself, on the purely Christian errand of reconciling them
Young as you are
there has been something out of the common in _your_ life; and I must and will know it
Fancy
if he saw me now
Midwinter
I don't believe in his name, to begin with
I'll bet you an even half-crown he's driven out of the neighborhood before another week is over his head
Done
He isn't as easy driven as you think
Isn't he
He'll be mobbed if he stops here! I tell you again, he's not satisfied with the mess he's got into already. I know it for certain, he's having the governess watched
It was my master's' particular order, sir
that he was to be told of it if you came back
It is _my_ particular request
that you won't disturb him
What does the nosegay mean
Am I awake or dreaming
I've learned to be cautious since you went away and left me
My dear fellow, you haven't the least notion what things have happened, and what an awful scrape I'm in at this very moment
You are mistaken, Allan. I have heard more of what has happened than you suppose
What! the dreadful mess I'm in with Miss Gwilt? the row with the major? the infernal scandal-mongering in the neighborhood? You don't mean to say
Yes
I have heard of it all
Good heavens! how? Did you stop at Thorpe Ambrose on your way back? Have you been in the coffee-room at the hotel? Have you met Pedgift? Have you dropped into the Reading Rooms, and seen what they call the freedom of the press in the town newspaper
Come in here
We'll go up to breakfast this way
How can you possibly have heard about me and Miss Gwilt
Who told you
Miss Gwilt herself
I wish you had heard my story first
Where did you meet with Miss Gwilt
Before I answer your question
I want to ask you something, Allan, on my side. Is it really true that you are in some way concerned in Miss Gwilt's leaving Major Milroy's service
It's rather a long story
I have been taken in, Midwinter. I've been imposed on by a person, who -- I can't help saying it -- who cheated me into promising what I oughtn't to have promised, and doing what I had better not have done. It isn't breaking my promise to tell you. I can trust in your discretion, can't I? You will never say a word, will you
Stop
Don't trust me with any secrets which are not your own. If you have given a promise, don't trifle with it, even in speaking to such an intimate friend as I am
I can't help seeing that I have made you a little uncomfortable
I can't help seeing that my question is not so easy a one to answer as I had hoped and supposed. Shall we wait a little? Shall we go upstairs and breakfast first
My dear fellow, it's a perfectly easy question to answer. Only
only it requires what I'm a bad hand at: it requires an explanation
Do you mean
that you must first justify yourself, and then answer my question
That's it
You're hit the right nail on the head, just as usual
I am sorry to hear it
Sorry
My dear fellow, you haven't heard the particulars yet. Wait till I explain the thing first
You are a bad hand at explanations
Don't place yourself at a disadvantage. Don't explain it
You are my friend -- my best and dearest friend
I can't bear to let you justify yourself to me as if I was your judge, or as if I doubted you
Besides
I think, if I look into my memory, I can anticipate your explanation. We had a moment's talk, before I went away, about some very delicate questions which you proposed putting to Major Milroy. I remember I warned you; I remember I had my misgivings. Should I be guessing right if I guessed that those questions have been in some way the means of leading you into a false position? If it is true that you have been concerned in Miss Gwilt's leaving her situation, is it also true -- is it only doing you justice to believe -- that any mischief for which you are responsible has been mischief innocently done
Yes
It is only doing me justice to say that
You're not like other people, Midwinter
and I should have liked you to have heard the particulars all the same
I will hear them if you desire it
But I am satisfied, without another word, that you have not willingly been the means of depriving Miss Gwilt of her situation. If that is understood between you and me, I think we need say no more. Besides, I have another question to ask, of much greater importance -- a question that has been forced on me by what I saw with my own eyes, and heard with my own ears, last night
Shall we go upstairs first
Midwinter
there seems to be something strange between us! You're not like yourself. What is it
There's something strange between us
For God's sake, what is it
Give me your hand, Allan
There is something strange between us
There is something to be set right which touches you nearly; and it has not been set right yet. You asked me just now where I met with Miss Gwilt. I met with her on my way back here, upon the high-road on the further side of the town. She entreated me to protect her from a man who was following and frightening her. I saw the scoundrel with my own eyes, and I should have laid hands on him, if Miss Gwilt herself had not stopped me. She gave a very strange reason for stopping me. She said I didn't know who his employer was
Later in the evening
Miss Gwilt explained herself. She told me two things. She declared that the man whom I had seen following her was a hired spy. I was surprised, but I could not dispute it. She told me next, Allan -- what I believe with my whole heart and soul to be a falsehood which has been imposed on her as the truth -- she told me that the spy was in your employment
I must explain myself this time
More explanations
You don't know what I know, Midwinter. You don't know that what I have done has been done with a good reason. And what is more, I have not trusted to myself -- I have had good advice
Did you hear what I said just now
You can't -- surely, you can't have been attending to me
I haven't missed a word
I tell you again, you don't know what I know of Miss Gwilt. She has threatened Miss Milroy. Miss Milroy is in danger while her governess stops in this neighborhood
I don't want to hear about Miss, Milroy
Don't mix up Miss Milroy -- Good God, Allan, am I to understand that the spy set to watch Miss Gwilt was doing his vile work with your approval
Once for all, my dear fellow, will you, or will you not, let me explain
Explain
Explain the employment of a spy? What! after having driven Miss Gwilt out of her situation by meddling with her private affairs, you meddle again by the vilest of all means -- the means of a paid spy? You set a watch on the woman whom you yourself told me you loved, only a fortnight since -- the woman you were thinking of as your wife! I don't believe it; I won't believe it. Is my head failing me? Is it Allan Armadale I am speaking to? Is it Allan Armadale's face looking at me? Stop! you are acting under some mistaken scruple. Some low fellow has crept into your confidence, and has done this in your name without telling you first
If you persist in refusing to hear me
I must wait as well as I can till my turn comes
Tell me you are a stranger to the employment of that man, and I will hear you willingly
Suppose there should be a necessity, that you know nothing about, for employing him
I acknowledge no necessity for the cowardly persecution of a helpless woman
You mightn't think her quite so helpless
if you knew the truth
Are _you_ the man to tell me the truth
You who have refused to hear her in her own defense! You who have closed the doors of this house against her
I know your temper is a hot one
But for all that, your violence quite takes me by surprise. I can't account for it, unless
unless you are sweet yourself on Miss Gwilt
What right have you to say that
I told _you_
when I thought I was sweet on her myself. Come! come! it's a little hard, I think, even if you are in love with her, to believe everything she tells you, and not to let me say a word. Is _that_ the way you decide between us
Yes, it is
When I am asked to choose between the employer of a spy and the victim of a spy, I side with the victim
Don't try me too hard, Midwinter, I have a temper to lose as well as you
You asked me for my hand just now
and I gave it you. Will you remember old times, and give me yours, before it's too late
No
I may meet Miss Gwilt again, and I may want my hand free to deal with your spy
Leave me
or we shall both repent it
The Dream
The Dream again
Show me the way out
The place is dark, and the room turns round with me
Thorpe Ambrose, July 20th, 1851. "DEAR MADAM -- I received yesterday, by private messenger, your obliging note, in which you direct me to communicate with you through the post only, as long as there is reason to believe that any visitors who may come to you are likely to be observed. May I be permitted to say that I look forward with respectful anxiety to the time when I shall again enjoy the only real happiness I have ever experienced -- the happiness of personally addressing you? 

"In compliance with your desire that I should not allow this day (the Sunday) to pass without privately noticing what went on at the great house, I took the keys, and went this morning to the steward's office. I accounted for my appearance to the servants by informing them that I had work to do which it was important to complete in the shortest possible time. The same excuse would have done for Mr. Armadale if we had met, but no such meeting happened. 

"Although I was at Thorpe Ambrose in what I thought good time, I was too late to see or hear anything myself of a serious quarrel which appeared to have taken place, just before I arrived, between Mr. Armadale and Mr. Midwinter. 

"All the little information I can give you in this matter is derived from one of the servants. The man told me that he heard the voices of the two gentlemen loud in Mr. Armadale's sitting-room. He went in to announce breakfast shortly afterward, and found Mr. Midwinter in such a dreadful state of agitation that he had to be helped out of the room. The servant tried to take him upstairs to lie down and compose himself. He declined, saying he would wait a little first in one of the lower rooms, and begging that he might be left alone. The man had hardly got downstairs again when he heard the front door opened and closed. He ran back, and found that Mr. Midwinter was gone. The rain was pouring at the time, and thunder and lightning came soon afterward. Dreadful weather certainly to go out in. The servant thinks Mr. Midwinter's mind was unsettled. I sincerely hope not. Mr. Midwinter is one of the few people I have met with in the course of my life who have treated me kindly. 

"Hearing that Mr. Armadale still remained in the sitting-room, I went into the steward's office (which, as you may remember, is on the same side of the house), and left the door ajar, and set the window open, waiting and listening for anything that might happen. Dear madam, there was a time when I might have thought such a position in the house of my employer not a very becoming one. Let me hasten to assure you that this is far from being my feeling now. I glory in any position which makes me serviceable to you. 

"The state of the weather seemed hopelessly adverse to that renewal of intercourse between Mr. Armadale and Miss Milroy which you so confidently anticipate, and of which you are so anxious to be made aware. Strangely enough, however, it is actually in consequence of the state of the weather that I am now in a position to give you the very information you require. Mr. Armadale and Miss Milroy met about an hour since. The circumstances were as follows: 

"Just at the beginning of the thunder-storm, I saw one of the grooms run across from the stables, and heard him tap at his master's window. Mr. Armadale opened the window and asked what was the matter. The groom said he came with a message from the coachman's wife. She had seen from her room over the stables (which looks on to the park) Miss Milroy quite alone, standing for shelter under one of the trees. As that part of the park was at some distance from the major's cottage, she had thought that her master might wish to send and ask the young lady into the house -- especially as she had placed herself, with a thunder-storm coming on, in what might turn out to be a very dangerous position. 

"The moment Mr. Armadale understood the man's message, he called for the water-proof things and the umbrellas, and ran out himself, instead of leaving it to the servants. In a little time he and the groom came back with Miss Milroy between them, as well protected as could be from the rain. 

"I ascertained from one of the women-servants, who had taken the young lady into a bedroom, and had supplied her with such dry things as she wanted, that Miss Milroy had been afterward shown into the drawing-room, and that Mr. Armadale was there with her. The only way of following your instructions, and finding out what passed between them, was to go round the house in the pelting rain, and get into the conservatory (which opens into the drawing-room) by the outer door. I hesitate at nothing, dear madam, in your service; I would cheerfully get wet every day, to please you. Besides, though I may at first sight be thought rather an elderly man, a wetting is of no very serious consequence to me. I assure you I am not so old as I look, and I am of a stronger constitution than appears. 

"It was impossible for me to get near enough in the conservatory to see what went on in the drawing-room, without the risk of being discovered. But most of the conversation reached me, except when they dropped their voices. This is the substance of what I heard: 

"I gathered that Miss Milroy had been prevailed on, against her will, to take refuge from the thunder-storm in Mr. Armadale's house. She said so, at least, and she gave two reasons. The first was that her father had forbidden all intercourse between the cottage and the great house. Mr. Armadale met this objection by declaring that her father had issued his orders under a total misconception of the truth, and by entreating her not to treat him as cruelly as the major had treated him. He entered, I suspect, into some explanations at this point, but as he dropped his voice I am unable to say what they were. His language, when I did hear it, was confused and ungrammatical. It seemed, however, to be quite intelligible enough to persuade Miss Milroy that her father had been acting under a mistaken impression of the circumstances. At least, I infer this; for, when I next heard the conversation, the young lady was driven back to her second objection to being in the house -- which was, that Mr. Armadale had behaved very badly to her, and that he richly deserved that she should never speak to him again. 

"In this latter case, Mr. Armadale attempted no defense of any kind. He agreed with her that he had behaved badly; he agreed with her that he richly deserved she should never speak to him again. At the same time he implored her to remember that he had suffered his punishment already. He was disgraced in the neighborhood; and his dearest friend, his one intimate friend in the world, had that very morning turned against him like the rest. Far or near, there was not a living creature whom he was fond of to comfort him, or to say a friendly word to him. He was lonely and miserable, and his heart ached for a little kindness -- and that was his only excuse for asking Miss Milroy to forget and forgive the past. 

"I must leave you, I fear, to judge for yourself of the effect of this on the young lady; for, though I tried hard, I failed to catch what she said. I am almost certain I heard her crying, and Mr. Armadale entreating her not to break his heart. They whispered a great deal, which aggravated me. I was afterward alarmed by Mr. Armadale coming out into the conservatory to pick some flowers. He did not come as far, fortunately, as the place where I was hidden; and he went in again into the drawing-room, and there was more talking (I suspect at close quarters), which to my great regret I again failed to catch. Pray forgive me for having so little to tell you. I can only add that, when the storm cleared off, Miss Milroy went away with the flowers in her hand, and with Mr. Armadale escorting her from the house. My own humble opinion is that he had a powerful friend at court, all through the interview, in the young lady's own liking for him. 

"This is all I can say at present, with the exception of one other thing I heard, which I blush to mention. But your word is law, and you have ordered me to have no concealments from you. 

"Their talk turned once, dear madam, on yourself. I think I heard the word 'creature' from Miss Milroy; and I am certain that Mr. Armadale, while acknowledging that he had once admired you, added that circumstances had since satisfied him of 'his folly.' I quote his own expression; it made me quite tremble with indignation. If I may be permitted to say so, the man who admires Miss Gwilt lives in Paradise. Respect, if nothing else, ought to have closed Mr. Armadale's lips. He is my employer, I know; but after his calling it an act of folly to admire you (though I _am_ his deputy-steward), I utterly despise him. 

"Trusting that I may have been so happy as to give you satisfaction thus far, and earnestly desirous to deserve the honor of your continued confidence in me, I remain, dear madam, 

"Your grateful and devoted servant, 

"FELIX BASHWOOD
Diana Street, Monday, July 21st. "MY DEAR LYDIA -- I trouble you with a few lines. They are written under a sense of the duty which I owe to myself, in our present position toward each other. 

"I am not at all satisfied with the tone of your last two letters; and I am still less pleased at your leaving me this morning without any letter at all -- and this when we had arranged, in the doubtful state of our prospects, that I was to hear from you every day. I can only interpret your conduct in one way. I can only infer that matters at Thorpe Ambrose, having been all mismanaged, are all going wrong. 

"It is not my present object to reproach you, for why should I waste time, language, and paper? I merely wish to recall to your memory certain considerations which you appear to be disposed to overlook. Shall I put them in the plainest English? Yes; for, with all my faults, I am frankness personified. 

"In the first place, then, I have an interest in your becoming Mrs. Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose as well as you. Secondly, I have provided you (to say nothing of good advice) with all the money needed to accomplish our object. Thirdly, I hold your notes of hand, at short dates, for every farthing so advanced. Fourthly and lastly, though I am indulgent to a fault in the capacity of a friend -- in the capacity of a woman of business, my dear, I am not to be trifled with. That is all, Lydia, at least for the present. 

"Pray don't suppose I write in anger; I am only sorry and disheartened. My state of mind resembles David's. If I had the wings of a dove, I would flee away and be at rest. 

"Affectionately yours, MARIA OLDERSHAW
Thorpe Ambrose, July 21st. "DEAR MADAM -- You will probably receive these lines a few hours after my yesterday's communication reaches you. I posted my first letter last night, and I shall post this before noon to-day. 

"My present object in writing is to give you some more news from this house. I have the inexpressible happiness of announcing that Mr. Armadale's disgraceful intrusion on your privacy is at an end. The watch set on your actions is to be withdrawn this day. I write, dear madam, with the tears in my eyes -- tears of joy, caused by feelings which I ventured to express in my previous letter (see first paragraph toward the end). Pardon me this personal reference. I can speak to you (I don't know why) so much more readily with my pen than with my tongue. 

"Let me try to compose myself, and proceed with my narrative. 

"I had just arrived at the steward's office this morning, when Mr. Pedgift the elder followed me to the great house to see Mr. Armadale by special appointment. It is needless to say that I at once suspended any little business there was to do, feeling that your interests might possibly be concerned. It is also most gratifying to add that this time circumstances favored me. I was able to stand under the open window and to hear the whole interview. 

"Mr. Armadale explained himself at once in the plainest terms. He gave orders that the person who had been hired to watch you should be instantly dismissed. On being asked to explain this sudden change of purpose, he did not conceal that it was owing to the effect produced on his mind by what had passed between Mr. Midwinter and himself on the previous day. Mr. Midwinter's language, cruelly unjust as it was, had nevertheless convinced him that no necessity whatever could excuse any proceeding so essentially base in itself as the employment of a spy, and on that conviction he was now determined to act. 

"But for your own positive directions to me to conceal nothing that passes here in which your name is concerned, I should really be ashamed to report what Mr. Pedgift said on his side. He has behaved kindly to me, I know. But if he was my own brother, I could never forgive him the tone in which he spoke of you, and the obstinacy with which he tried to make Mr. Armadale change his mind. 

"He began by attacking Mr. Midwinter. He declared that Mr. Midwinter's opinion was the very worst opinion that could be taken; for it was quite plain that you, dear madam, had twisted him round your finger. Producing no effect by this coarse suggestion (which nobody who knows you could for a moment believe), Mr. Pedgift next referred to Miss Milroy, and asked Mr. Armadale if he had given up all idea of protecting her. What this meant I cannot imagine. I can only report it for your private consideration. Mr. Armadale briefly answered that he had his own plan for protecting Miss Milroy, and that the circumstances were altered in that quarter, or words to a similar effect. Still Mr. Pedgift persisted. He went on (I blush to mention) from bad to worse. He tried to persuade Mr. Armadale next to bring an action at law against one or other of the persons who had been most strongly condemning his conduct in the neighborhood, for the purpose -- I really hardly know how to write it -- of getting you into the witness-box. And worse yet: when Mr. Armadale still said No, Mr. Pedgift, after having, as I suspected by the sound of his voice, been on the point of leaving the room, artfully came back, and proposed sending for a detective officer from London, simply to look at you. 'The whole of this mystery about Miss Gwilt's true character,' he said, 'may turn on a question of identity. It won't cost much to have a man down from London; and it's worth trying whether her face is or is not known at headquarters to the police.' I again and again assure you, dearest lady, that I only repeat those abominable words from a sense of duty toward yourself. I shook -- I declare I shook from head to foot when I heard them. 

"To resume, for there is more to tell you. 

"Mr. Armadale (to his credit -- I don't deny it, though I don't like him) still said No. He appeared to be getting irritated under Mr. Pedgift's persistence, and he spoke in a somewhat hasty way. 'You persuaded me on the last occasion when we talked about this,' he said, 'to do something that I have been since heartily ashamed of. You won't succeed in persuading me, Mr. Pedgift, a second time.' Those were his words. Mr. Pedgift took him up short; Mr. Pedgift seemed to be nettled on his side. 

"'If that is the light in which you see my advice, sir, ' he said, 'the less you have of it for the future, the better. Your character and position are publicly involved in this matter between yourself and Miss Gwilt; and you persist, at a most critical moment, in taking a course of your own, which I believe will end badly. After what I have already said and done in this very serious case, I can't consent to go on with it with both my hands tied, and I can't drop it with credit to myself while I remain publicly known as your solicitor. You leave me no alternative, sir, but to resign the honor of acting as your legal adviser.' 'I am sorry to hear it,' says Mr. Armadale, 'but I have suffered enough already through interfering with Miss Gwilt. I can't and won't stir any further in the matter.' '_You_ may not stir any further in it, sir,' says Mr. Pedgift, 'and _I_ shall not stir any further in it, for it has ceased to be a question of professional interest to me. But mark my words, Mr. Armadale, you are not at the end of this business yet. Some other person's curiosity may go on from the point where you (and I) have stopped; and some other person's hand may let the broad daylight in yet on Miss Gwilt.' 

"I report their language, dear madam, almost word for word, I believe, as I heard it. It produced an indescribable impression on me; it filled me, I hardly know why, with quite a panic of alarm. I don't at all understand it, and I understand still less what happened immediately afterward. 

"Mr. Pedgift's voice, when he said those last words, sounded dreadfully close to me. He must have been speaking at the open window, and he must, I fear, have seen me under it. I had time, before he left the house, to get out quietly from among the laurels, but not to get back to the office. Accordingly I walked away along the drive toward the lodge, as if I was going on some errand connected with the steward's business. 

"Before long, Mr. Pedgift overtook me in his gig, and stopped. 'So _you_ feel some curiosity about Miss Gwilt, do you?' he said. 'Gratify your curiosity by all means; _I_ don't object to it.' I felt naturally nervous, but I managed to ask him what he meant. He didn't answer; he only looked down at me from the gig in a very odd manner, and laughed. 'I have known stranger things happen even than _that_!' he said to himself suddenly, and drove off. 

"I have ventured to trouble you with this last incident, though it may seem of no importance in your eyes, in the hope that your superior ability may be able to explain it. My own poor faculties, I confess, are quite unable to penetrate Mr. Pedgift's meaning. All I know is that he has no right to accuse me of any such impertinent feeling as curiosity in relation to a lady whom I ardently esteem and admire. I dare not put it in warmer words. 

"I have only to add that I am in a position to be of continued service to you here if you wish it. Mr. Armadale has just been into the office, and has told me briefly that, in Mr. Midwinter's continued absence, I am still to act as steward's deputy till further notice. 

"Believe me, dear madam, anxiously and devotedly yours, FELIX BASHWOOD
MY DEAR MR. BROCK -- I am in sad trouble. Midwinter has quarreled with me and left me; and my lawyer has quarreled with me and left me; and (except dear little Miss Milroy, who has forgiven me) all the neighbors have turned their backs on me. There is a good deal about 'me' in this, but I can't help it. I am very miserable alone in my own house. Do pray come and see me! You are the only old friend I have left, and I do long so to tell you about it. "N. B.-- On my word of honor as a gentleman, I am not to blame. Yours affectionately, 

"ALLAN ARMADALE. 

"P. S.-- I would come to you (for this place is grown quite hateful to me), but I have a reason for not going too far away from Miss Milroy just at present
Bascombe Rectory, Thursday Morning. "RESPECTED SIR -- I see a letter in your writing, on the table along with the others, which I am sorry to say my master is not well enough to open. He is down with a sort of low fever. The doctor says it has been brought on with worry and anxiety which master was not strong enough to bear. This seems likely; for I was with him when he went to London last month, and what with his own business, and the business of looking after that person who afterward gave us the slip, he was worried and anxious all the time; and for the matter of that, so was I. 

"My master was talking of you a day or two since. He seemed unwilling that you should know of his illness, unless he got worse. But I think you ought to know of it. At the same time he is not worse; perhaps a trifle better. The doctor says he must be kept very quiet, and not agitated on any account. So be pleased to take no notice of this -- I mean in the way of coming to the rectory. I have the doctor's orders to say it is not needful, and it would only upset my master in the state he is in now. 

"I will write again if you wish it. Please accept of my duty, and believe me to remain, sir, your humble servant, 

"ROBERT STAPLETON. 

"P. S.-- The yacht has been rigged and repainted, waiting your orders. She looks beautiful
Diana Street, July 24th. "MISS GWILT -- The post hour has passed for three mornings following, and has brought me no answer to my letter. Are you purposely bent on insulting me? or have you left Thorpe Ambrose? In either case, I won't put up with your conduct any longer. The law shall bring you to book, if I can't. 

"Your first note of hand (for thirty pounds) falls due on Tuesday next, the29 th. If you had behaved with common consideration toward me, I would have let you renew it with pleasure. As things are, I shall have the note presented; and, if it is not paid, I shall instruct my man of business to take the usual course. 

"Yours, MARIA OLDERSHAW
L. G
Diana Street, July 26th. "MY DARLING LYDIA -- The longer I live in this wicked world the more plainly I see that women's own tempers are the worst enemies women have to contend with. What a truly regretful style of correspondence we have fallen into! What a sad want of self-restraint, my dear, on your side and on mine! 

"Let me, as the oldest in years, be the first to make the needful excuses, the first to blush for my own want of self-control. Your cruel neglect, Lydia, stung me into writing as I did. I am so sensitive to ill treatment, when it is inflicted on me by a person whom I love and admire; and, though turned sixty, I am still (unfortunately for myself) so young at heart. Accept my apologies for having made use of my pen, when I ought to have been content to take refuge in my pocket-handkerchief. Forgive your attached Maria for being still young at heart! 

"But oh, my dear -- though I own I threatened you -- how hard of you to take me at my word! How cruel of you, if your debt had been ten times what it is, to suppose me capable (whatever I might say) of the odious inhumanity of arresting my bosom friend! Heavens! have I deserved to be taken at my word in this unmercifully exact way, after the years of tender intimacy that have united us? But I don't complain; I only mourn over the frailty of our common human nature. Let us expect as little of each other as possible, my dear; we are both women, and we can't help it. I declare, when I reflect on the origin of our unfortunate sex -- when I remember that we were all originally made of no better material than the rib of a man (and that rib of so little importance to its possessor that he never appears to have missed it afterward), I am quite astonished at our virtues, and not in the least surprised at our faults. 

"I am wandering a little; I am losing myself in serious thought, like that sweet character in Shakespeare who was 'fancy free.' One last word, dearest, to say that my longing for an answer to this proceeds entirely from my wish to hear from you again in your old friendly tone, and is quite unconnected with any curiosity to know what you are doing at Thorpe Ambrose -- except such curiosity as you yourself might approve. Need I add that I beg you as a favor to _me_ to renew, on the customary terms? I refer to the little bill due on Tuesday next, and I venture to suggest that day six weeks. 

"Yours, with a truly motherly feeling, 

"MARIA OLDERSHAW
Paradise Place, July 27th. "I have just got your last letter. The brazen impudence of it has roused me. I am to be treated like a child, am I?-- to be threatened first, and then, if threatening fails, to be coaxed afterward? You _shall_ coax me; you shall know, my motherly friend, the sort of child you have to deal with. 

"I had a reason, Mrs. Oldershaw, for the silence which has so seriously offended you. I was afraid -- actually afraid -- to let you into the secret of my thoughts. No such fear troubles me now. My only anxiety this morning is to make you my best acknowledgments for the manner in which you have written to me. After carefully considering it, I think the worst turn I can possibly do you is to tell you what you are burning to know. So here I am at my desk, bent on telling it. If you don't bitterly repent, when you are at the end of this letter, not having held to your first resolution, and locked me up out of harm's way while you had the chance, my name is not Lydia Gwilt. 

"Where did my last letter end? I don't remember, and don't care. Make it out as you can -- I am not going back any further than this day week. That is to say, Sunday last. 

"There was a thunder-storm in the morning. It began to clear off toward noon. I didn't go out: I waited to see Midwinter or to hear from him. (Are you surprised at my not writing 'Mr.' before his name? We have got so familiar, my dear, that 'Mr.' would be quite out of place.) He had left me the evening before, under very interesting circumstances. I had told him that his friend Armadale was persecuting me by means of a hired spy. He had declined to believe it, and had gone straight to Thorpe Ambrose to clear the thing up. I let him kiss my hand before he went. He promised to come back the next day (the Sunday). I felt I had secured my influence over him; and I believed he would keep his word. 

"Well, the thunder passed away as I told you. The weather cleared up; the people walked out in their best clothes; the dinners came in from the bakers; I sat dreaming at my wretched little hired piano, nicely dressed and looking my best -- and still no Midwinter appeared. It was late in the afternoon, and I was beginning to feel offended, when a letter was brought to me. It had been left by a strange messenger who went away again immediately. I looked at the letter. Midwinter at last -- in writing, instead of in person. I began to feel more offended than ever; for, as I told you, I thought I had used my influence over him to better purpose. 

"The letter, when I read it, set my mind off in a new direction. It surprised, it puzzled, it interested me. I thought, and thought, and thought of him, all the rest of the day. 

"He began by asking my pardon for having doubted what I told him. Mr. Armadale's own lips had confirmed me. They had quarreled (as I had anticipated they would); and he, and the man who had once been his dearest friend on earth, had parted forever. So far, I was not surprised. I was amused by his telling me in his extravagant way that he and his friend were parted forever; and I rather wondered what he would think when I carried out my plan, and found my way into the great house on pretense of reconciling them. 

"But the second part of the letter set me thinking. Here it is, in his own words. 

"'It is only by struggling against myself (and no language can say how hard the struggle has been) that I have decided on writing, instead of speaking to you. A merciless necessity claims my future life. I must leave Thorpe Ambrose, I must leave England, without hesitating, without stopping to look back. There are reasons -- terrible reasons, which I have madly trifled with -- for my never letting Mr. Armadale set eyes on me, or hear of me again, after what has happened between us. I must go, never more to live under the same roof, never more to breathe the same air with that man. I must hide myself from him under an assumed name; I must put the mountains and the seas between us. I have been warned as no human creature was ever warned before. I believe -- I dare not tell you why -- I believe that, if the fascination you have for me draws me back to you, fatal consequences will come of it to the man whose life has been so strangely mingled with your life and mine -- the man who was once _your_ admirer and _my_ friend. And yet, feeling this, seeing it in my mind as plainly as I see the sky above my head, there is a weakness in me that still shrinks from the one imperative sacrifice of never seeing you again. I am fighting with it as a man fights with the strength of his despair. I have been near enough, not an hour since, to see the house where you live, and have forced myself away again out of sight of it. Can I force myself away further still, now that my letter is written -- now, when the useless confession escapes me, and I own to loving you with the first love I have ever known, with the last love I shall ever feel? Let the coming time answer the question; I dare not write of it or think of it more.' 

"Those were the last words. In that strange way the letter ended. 

"I felt a perfect fever of curiosity to know what he meant. His loving me, of course, was easy enough to understand. But what did he mean by saying he had been warned? Why was he never to live under the same roof, never to breathe the same air again, with young Armadale? What sort of quarrel could it be which obliged one man to hide himself from another under an assumed name, and to put the mountains and the seas between them? Above all, if he came back, and let me fascinate him, why should it be fatal to the hateful lout who possesses the noble fortune and lives in the great house? 

"I never longed in my life as I longed to see him again and put these questions to him. I got quite superstitious about it as the day drew on. They gave me a sweet-bread and a cherry pudding for dinner. I actually tried if he would come back by the stones in the plate! He will, he won't, he will, he won't -- and so on. It ended in 'He won't.' I rang the bell, and had the things taken away. I contradicted Destiny quite fiercely. I said, 'He will!' and I waited at home for him. 

"You don't know what a pleasure it is to me to give you all these little particulars. Count up -- my bosom friend, my second mother -- count up the money you have advanced on the chance of my becoming Mrs. Armadale, and then think of my feeling this breathless interest in another man. Oh, Mrs. Oldershaw, how intensely I enjoy the luxury of irritating you! 

"The day got on toward evening. I rang again, and sent down to borrow a railway time-table. What trains were there to take him away on Sunday? The national respect for the Sabbath stood my friend. There was only one train, which had started hours before he wrote to me. I went and consulted my glass. It paid me the compliment of contradicting the divination by cherry-stones. My glass said: 'Get behind the window-curtain; he won't pass the long lonely evening without coming back again to look at the house.' I got behind the window-curtain, and waited with his letter in my hand. 

"The dismal Sunday light faded, and the dismal Sunday quietness in the street grew quieter still. The dusk came, and I heard a step coming with it in the silence. My heart gave a little jump -- only think of my having any heart left! I said to myself: 'Midwinter!' And Midwinter it was. 

"When he came in sight he was walking slowly, stopping and hesitating at every two or three steps. My ugly little drawing-room window seemed to be beckoning him on in spite of himself. After waiting till I saw him come to a standstill, a little aside from the house, but still within view of my irresistible window, I put on my things and slipped out by the back way into the garden. The landlord and his family were at supper, and nobody saw me. I opened the door in the wall, and got round by the lane into the street. At that awkward moment I suddenly remembered, what I had forgotten before, the spy set to watch me, who was, no doubt, waiting somewhere in sight of the house. 

"It was necessary to get time to think, and it was (in my state of mind) impossible to let Midwinter go without speaking to him. In great difficulties you generally decide at once, if you decide at all. I decided to make an appointment with him for the next evening, and to consider in the interval how to manage the interview so that it might escape observation. This, as I felt at the time, was leaving my own curiosity free to torment me for four-and-twenty mortal hours; but what other choice had I? It was as good as giving up being mistress of Thorpe Ambrose altogether, to come to a private understanding with Midwinter in the sight and possibly in the hearing of Armadale's spy. 

"Finding an old letter of yours in my pocket, I drew back into the lane, and wrote on the blank leaf, with the little pencil that hangs at my watch-chain: 'I must and will speak to you. It is impossible tonight, but be in the street tomorrow at this time, and leave me afterward forever, if you like. When you have read this, overtake me, and say as you pass, without stopping or looking round, "Yes, I promise."' 

"I folded up the paper, and came on him suddenly from behind. As he started and turned round, I put the note into his hand, pressed his hand, and passed on. Before I had taken ten steps I heard him behind me. I can't say he didn't look round -- I saw his big black eyes, bright and glittering in the dusk, devour me from head to foot in a moment; but otherwise he did what I told him. 'I can deny you nothing,' he whispered; 'I promise.' He went on and left me. I couldn't help thinking at the time how that brute and booby Armadale would have spoiled everything in the same situation. 

"I tried hard all night to think of a way of making our interview of the next evening safe from discovery, and tried in vain. Even as early as this, I began to feel as if Midwinter's letter had, in some unaccountable manner, stupefied me. 

"Monday morning made matters worse. News came from my faithful ally, Mr. Bashwood, that Miss Milroy and Armadale had met and become friends again. You may fancy the state I was in! An hour or two later there came more news from Mr. Bashwood -- good news this time. The mischievous idiot at Thorpe Ambrose had shown sense enough at last to be ashamed of himself. He had decided on withdrawing the spy that very day, and he and his lawyer had quarreled in consequence. 

"So here was the obstacle which I was too stupid to remove for myself obligingly removed for me! No more need to fret about the coming interview with Midwinter; and plenty of time to consider my next proceedings, now that Miss Milroy and her precious swain had come together again. Would you believe it, the letter, or the man himself (I don't know which), had taken such a hold on me that, though I tried and tried, I could think of nothing else; and this when I had every reason to fear that Miss Milroy was in a fair way of changing her name to Armadale, and when I knew that my heavy debt of obligation to her was not paid yet? Was there ever such perversity? I can't account for it; can you? 

"The dusk of the evening came at last. I looked out of the window -- and there he was! 

"I joined him at once; the people of the house, as before, being too much absorbed in their eating and drinking to notice anything else. 'We mustn't be seen together here,' I whispered. 'I must go on first, and you must follow me.' 

"He said nothing in the way of reply. What was going on in his mind I can't pretend to guess; but, after coming to his appointment, he actually hung back as if he was half inclined to go away again. 

"'You look as if you were afraid of me,' I said. 

"'I _am_ afraid of you, ' he answered --'of you, and of myself.' 

"It was not encouraging; it was not complimentary. But I was in such a frenzy of curiosity by this time that, if he had been ruder still, I should have taken no notice of it. I led the way a few steps toward the new buildings, and stopped and looked round after him. 

"'Must I ask it of you as a favor, ' I said, 'after your giving me your promise, and after such a letter as you have written to me?' 

"Something suddenly changed him; he was at my side in an instant. 'I beg your pardon, Miss Gwilt; lead the way where you please.' He dropped back a little after that answer, and I heard him say to himself, 'What _is_ to be _will_ be. What have I to do with it, and what has she?' 

"It could hardly have been the words, for I didn't understand them -- it must have been the tone he spoke in, I suppose, that made me feel a momentary tremor. I was half inclined, without the ghost of a reason for it, to wish him good-night, and go in again. Not much like me, you will say. Not much, indeed! It didn't last a moment. Your darling Lydia soon came to her senses again. 

"I led the way toward the unfinished cottages, and the country beyond. It would have been much more to my taste to have had him into the house, and have talked to him in the light of the candles. But I had risked it once already; and in this scandal-mongering place, and in my critical position, I was afraid to risk it again. The garden was not to be thought of either, for the landlord smokes his pipe there after his supper. There was no alternative but to take him away from the town. 

"From time to time, I looked back as I went on. There he was, always at the same distance, dim and ghost-like in the dusk, silently following me. 

"I must leave off for a little while. The church bells have broken out, and the jangling of them drives me mad. In these days, when we have all got watches and clocks, why are bells wanted to remind us when the service begins? We don't require to be rung into the theater. How excessively discreditable to the clergy to be obliged to ring us into the church! 

"They have rung the congregation in at last; and I can take up my pen, and go on again. 

"I was a little in doubt where to lead him to. The high-road was on one side of me; but, empty as it looked, somebody might be passing when we least expected it. The other way was through the coppice. I led him through the coppice. 

"At the outskirts of the trees, on the other side, there was a dip in the ground with some felled timber lying on it, and a little pool beyond, still and white and shining in the twilight. The long grazing-grounds rose over its further shore, with the mist thickening on them, and a dim black line far away of cattle in slow procession going home. There wasn't a living creature near; there wasn't a sound to be heard. I sat down on one of the felled trees and looked back for him. 'Come,' I said, softly --'come and sit by me here.' 

"Why am I so particular about all this? I hardly know. The place made an unaccountably vivid impression on me, and I can't help writing about it. If I end badly -- suppose we say on the scaffold?-- I believe the last thing I shall see, before the hangman pulls the drop, will be the little shining pool, and the long, misty grazing-grounds, and the cattle winding dimly home in the thickening night. Don't be alarmed, you worthy creature! My fancies play me strange tricks sometimes; and there is a little of last night's laudanum, I dare say, in this part of my letter. 

"He came -- in the strangest silent way, like a man walking in his sleep -- he came and sat down by me. Either the night was very close, or I was by this time literally in a fever: I couldn't bear my bonnet on; I couldn't bear my gloves. The want to look at him, and see what his singular silence meant, and the impossibility of doing it in the darkening light, irritated my nerves, till I thought I should have screamed. I took his hand, to try if that would help me. It was burning hot; and it closed instantly on mine -- you know how. Silence, after _that_, was not to be thought of. The one safe way was to begin talking to him at once. 

"'Don't despise me,' I said. 'I am obliged to bring you to this lonely place; I should lose my character if we were seen together.' 

"I waited a little. His hand warned me once more not to let the silence continue. I determined to _make_ him speak to me this time. 

"'You have interested me, and frightened me, ' I went on. 'You have written me a very strange letter. I must know what it means.' 

"'It is too late to ask. _You_ have taken the way, and _I_ have taken the way, from which there is no turning back.' He made that strange answer in a tone that was quite new to me -- a tone that made me even more uneasy than his silence had made me the moment before. 'Too late,' he repeated --'too late! There is only one question to ask me now.' 

"'What is it?' 

"As I said the words, a sudden trembling passed from his hand to mine, and told me instantly that I had better have held my tongue. Before I could move, before I could think, he had me in his arms. 'Ask me if I love you,' he whispered. At the same moment his head sank on my bosom; and some unutterable torture that was in him burst its way out, as it does with _us_, in a passion of sobs and tears. 

"My first impulse was the impulse of a fool. I was on the point of making our usual protest and defending myself in our usual way. Luckily or unluckily, I don't know which, I have lost the fine edge of the sensitiveness of youth; and I checked the first movement of my hands, and the first word on my lips. Oh, dear, how old I felt, while he was sobbing his heart out on my breast! How I thought of the time when he might have possessed himself of my love! All he had possessed himself of now was -- my waist. 

"I wonder whether I pitied him? It doesn't matter if I did. At any rate, my hand lifted itself somehow, and my fingers twined themselves softly in his hair. Horrible recollections came back to me of other times, and made me shudder as I touched him. And yet I did it. What fools women are! 

"'I won't reproach you,' I said, gently. 'I won't say this is a cruel advantage to take of me, in such a position as mine. You are dreadfully agitated; I will let you wait a little and compose yourself.' 

"Having got as far as that, I stopped to consider how I should put the questions to him that I was burning to ask. But I was too confused, I suppose, or perhaps too impatient to consider. I let out what was uppermost in my mind, in the words that came first. 

"'I don't believe you love me, ' I said. 'You write strange things to me; you frighten me with mysteries. What did you mean by saying in your letter that it would be fatal to Mr. Armadale if you came back to me? What danger can there be to Mr. Armadale --?' 

"Before I could finish the question, he suddenly lifted his head and unclasped his arms. I had apparently touched some painful subject which recalled him to himself. Instead of my shrinking from _him_, it was he who shrank from _me_. I felt offended with him; why, I don't know -- but offended I was; and I thanked him with my bitterest emphasis for remembering what was due to me, _at last_! 

"'Do you believe in Dreams?' he burst out, in the most strangely abrupt manner, without taking the slightest notice of what I had said to him. 'Tell me,' he went on, without allowing me time to answer, 'were you, or was any relation of yours, ever connected with Allan Armadale's father or mother? Were you, or was anybody belonging to you, ever in the island of Madeira?' 

"Conceive my astonishment, if you can. I turned cold. In an instant I turned cold all over. He was plainly in the secret of what had happened when I was in Mrs. Armadale's service in Madeira -- in all probability before he was born! That was startling enough of itself. And he had evidently some reason of his own for trying to connect _me_ with those events -- which was more startling still. 

"'No,' I said, as soon as I could trust myself to speak. 'I know nothing of his father or mother.' 

"'And nothing of the island of Madeira?' 

"'Nothing of the island of Madeira.' 

"He turned his head away, and began talking to himself. 

"'Strange!' he said. 'As certainly as I was in the Shadow's place at the window, _she_ was in the Shadow's place at the pool!' 

"Under other circumstances, his extraordinary behavior might have alarmed me. But after his question about Madeira, there was some greater fear in me which kept all common alarm at a distance. I don't think I ever determined on anything in my life as I determined on finding out how he had got his information, and who he really was. It was quite plain to me that I had roused some hidden feeling in him by my question about Armadale, which was as strong in its way as his feeling for _me_. What had become of my influence over him? 

"I couldn't imagine what had become of it; but I could and did set to work to make him feel it again. 

"'Don't treat me cruelly,' I said; 'I didn't treat _you_ cruelly just now. Oh, Mr. Midwinter, it's so lonely, it's so dark -- don't frighten me!' 

"'Frighten you!' He was close to me again in a moment. 'Frighten you!' He repeated the word with as much astonishment as if I had woke him from a dream, and charged him with something that he had said in his sleep. 

"It was on the tip of my tongue, finding how I had surprised him, to take him while he was off his guard, and to ask why my question about Armadale had produced such a change in his behavior to me. But after what had happened already, I was afraid to risk returning to the subject too soon. Something or other -- what they call an instinct, I dare say -- warned me to let Armadale alone for the present, and to talk to him first about himself. As I told you in one of my early letters, I had noticed signs and tokens in his manner and appearance which convinced me, young as he was, that he had done something or suffered something out of the common in his past life. I had asked myself more and more suspiciously every time I saw him whether he was what he appeared to be; and first and foremost among my other doubts was a doubt whether he was passing among us by his real name. Having secrets to keep about my own past life, and having gone myself in other days by more than one assumed name, I suppose I am all the readier to suspect other people when I find something mysterious about them. Any way, having the suspicion in my mind, I determined to startle him, as he had startled me, by an unexpected question on my side -- a question about his name. 

"While I was thinking, he was thinking; and, as it soon appeared, of what I had just said to him. 'I am so grieved to have frightened you,' he whispered, with that gentleness and humility which we all so heartily despise in a man when he speaks to other women, and which we all so dearly like when he speaks to ourselves. 'I hardly know what I have been saying,' he went on; 'my mind is miserably disturbed. Pray forgive me, if you can; I am not myself to-night.' 

"'I am not angry,' I said; 'I have nothing to forgive. We are both imprudent; we are both unhappy.' I laid my head on his shoulder. 'Do you really love me?' I asked him, softly, in a whisper. 

"His arm stole round me again; and I felt the quick beat of his heart get quicker and quicker. 'If you only knew!' he whispered back; 'if you only knew --' He could say no more. I felt his face bending toward mine, and dropped my head lower, and stopped him in the very act of kissing me. 

"'No,' I said; 'I am only a woman who has taken your fancy. You are treating me as if I was your promised wife.' 

"'_Be_ my promised wife!' he whispered, eagerly, and tried to raise my head. I kept it down. The horror of these old remembrances that you know of came back and made me tremble a little when he asked me to be his wife. I don't think I was actually faint; but something like faintness made me close my eyes. The moment I shut them, the darkness seemed to open as if lightning had split it; and the ghosts of _those other men_ rose in the horrid gap, and looked at me. 

"'Speak to me!' he whispered, tenderly. 'My darling, my angel, speak to me!' 

"His voice helped me to recover myself. I had just sense enough left to remember that the time was passing, and that I had not put my question to him yet about his name. 

"'Suppose I felt for you as you feel for me?' I said. 'Suppose I loved you dearly enough to trust you with the happiness of all my life to come?' 

"I paused a moment to get my breath. It was unbearably still and close; the air seemed to have died when the night came. 

"'Would you be marrying me honorably,' I went on, 'if you married me in your present name?' 

"His arm dropped from my waist, and I felt him give one great start. After that he sat by me, still, and cold, and silent, as if my question had struck him dumb. I put my arm round his neck, and lifted my head again on his shoulder. Whatever the spell was I had laid on him, my coming closer in that way seemed to break it. 

"'Who told you?' He stopped. 'No,' he went on, 'nobody can have told you. What made you suspect --?' He stopped again. 

"'Nobody told me, ' I said; 'and I don't know what made me suspect. Women have strange fancies sometimes. Is Midwinter really your name?' 

"'I can't deceive you, ' he answered, after another interval of silence; 'Midwinter is _not_ really my name.' 

"I nestled a little closer to him. 

" What _is_ your name?' I asked. 

"He hesitated. 

"I lifted my face till my cheek just touched his. I persisted, with my lips close at his ear: 

"'What, no confidence in me even yet! No confidence in the woman who has almost confessed she loves you -- who has almost consented to be your wife!' 

"He turned his face to mine. For the second time he tried to kiss me, and for the second time I stopped him. 

"'If I tell you my name,' he said, 'I must tell you more.' 

"I let my cheek touch his again. 

"'Why not?' I said. 'How can I love a man -- much less marry him -- if he keeps himself a stranger to me?' 

"There was no answering that, as I thought. But he did answer it. 

"'It is a dreadful story,' he said. 'It may darken all your life, if you know it, as it has darkened mine.' 

"I put my other arm round him, and persisted. 'Tell it me; I'm not afraid; tell it me.' 

"He began to yield to my other arm. 

"'Will you keep it a sacred secret?' he said. 'Never to be breathed -- never to be known but to you and me?' 

"I promised him it should be a secret. I waited in a perfect frenzy of expectation. Twice he tried to begin, and twice his courage failed him. 

"'I can't!' he broke out in a wild, helpless way. I can't tell it!' 

"My curiosity, or more likely my temper, got beyond all control. He had irritated me till I was reckless what I said or what I did. I suddenly clasped him close, and pressed my lips to his. 'I love you!' I whispered in a kiss. '_Now_ will you tell me?' 

"For the moment he was speechless. I don't know whether I did it purposely to drive him wild. I don't know whether I did it involuntarily in a burst of rage. Nothing is certain but that I interpreted his silence the wrong way. I pushed him back from me in a fury the instant after I had kissed him. 'I hate you!' I said. 'You have maddened me into forgetting myself. Leave me. I don't care for the darkness. Leave me instantly, and never see me again!' 

"He caught me by the hand and stopped me. He spoke in a new voice; he suddenly _commanded_, as only men can. 

"'Sit down, ' he said. 'You have given me back my courage -- you shall know who I am.' 

"In the silence and the darkness all round us, I obeyed him, and sat down. 

"In the silence and the darkness all round us, he took me in his arms again, and told me who he was. 

"Shall I trust you with his story? Shall I tell you his real name? Shall I show you, as I threatened, the thoughts that have grown out of my interview with him and out of all that has happened to me since that time? 

"Or shall I keep his secret as I promised? and keep my own secret too, by bringing this weary, long letter to an end at the very moment when you are burning to hear more! 

"Those are serious questions, Mrs. Oldershaw -- more serious than you suppose. I have had time to calm down, and I begin to see, what I failed to see when I first took up my pen to write to you, the wisdom of looking at consequences. Have I frightened myself in trying to frighten _you_? It is possible -- strange as it may seem, it is really possible. 

"I have been at the window for the last minute or two, thinking. There is plenty of time for thinking before the post leaves. The people are only now coming out of church. 

"I have settled to put my letter on one side, and to take a look at my diary. In plainer words I must see what I risk if I decide on trusting you; and my diary will show me what my head is too weary to calculate without help. I have written the story of my days (and sometimes the story of my nights) much more regularly than usual for the last week, having reasons of my own for being particularly careful in this respect under present circumstances. If I end in doing what it is now in my mind to do, it would be madness to trust to my memory. The smallest forgetfulness of the slightest event that has happened from the night of my interview with Midwinter to the present time might be utter ruin to me. 

"'Utter ruin to her!' you will say. 'What kind of ruin does she mean?' 

"Wait a little, till I have asked my diary whether I can safely tell you
You didn't count on the drowned man coming back, alive and hearty, did you, ma'am
It's lucky for you
I didn't count on it. You have escaped the sea, but you wouldn't have escaped _me_
Why, what would you have done, if you _had_ known I was coming back
I would have killed you
I told you, when I broke off, that I would wait before I finished this, and ask my Diary if I could safely tell you what I have now got it in my mind to do. Well, I have asked; and my Diary says, 'Don't tell her!' Under these circumstances I close my letter -- with my best excuses for leaving you in the dark. "I shall probably be in London before long -- and I may tell you by word of mouth what I don't think it safe to write here. Mind, I make no promise! It all depends on how I feel toward you at the time. I don't doubt your discretion; but (under certain circumstances) I am not so sure of your courage. L. G
P. S.-- My best thanks for your permission to renew the bill. I decline profiting by the proposal. The money will be ready when the money is due. I have a friend now in London who will pay it if I ask him. Do you wonder who the friend is? You will wonder at one or two other things, Mrs. Oldershaw, before many weeks more are over your head and mine
he had muddled away his time in hunting for the Books; and that he had only found one, after all, which seemed in the least likely to repay either Neelie or himself for the trouble of looking into it
It's no laughing matter
I decline even to think of our marriage till my mind is made easy first on the subject of the Law
But I don't know anything about the law, not even as much as you do
Hang the law! I don't mind my head being cropped. Let's risk it
Risk it
Have you no consideration for me? I won't risk it! Where there's a will, there's a way. We must find out the law for ourselves
With all my heart
How
Out of books, to be sure! There must be quantities of information in that enormous library of yours at the great house. If you really love me, you won't mind going over the backs of a few thousand books, for my sake
I'll go over the backs of ten thousand
Would you mind telling me what I'm to look for
For 'Law,' to be sure! When it says 'Law' on the back, open it, and look inside for Marriage -- read every word of it -- and then come here and explain it to me. What! you don't think your head is to be trusted to do such a simple thing as that
I'm certain it isn't
Can't you help me
Of course I can, if you can't manage without me! Law may be hard, but it can't be harder than music; and I must, and will, satisfy my mind. Bring me all the books you can find, on Monday morning -- in a wheelbarrow, if there are a good many of them, and if you can't manage it in any other way
Find the place
We must manage this by what they call a division of labor. You shall read, and I'll take notes
Good' means where the law is on our side
and 'Bad' means where the law is against us. We will have 'Good' and 'Bad' opposite each other, all down the two pages; and when we get to the bottom, we'll add them up, and act accordingly. They say girls have no heads for business. Haven't they! Don't look at me -- look at Blackstone, and begin
Would you mind giving one a kiss first
I should mind it very much. In our serious situation, when we have both got to exert our intellects, I wonder you can ask for such a thing
That's why I asked for it
I feel as if it would clear my head
Oh, if it would clear your head, that's quite another thing! I must clear your head, of course, at any sacrifice. Only one, mind
and pray be careful of Blackstone, or you'll lose the place
If this happens again
I shall sit with my back to you for the rest of the morning. _Will_ you go on
Page 280
Law of husband and wife. Here's a bit I don't understand, to begin with: 'It may be observed generally that the law considers marriage in the light of a Contract.' What does that mean? I thought a contract was the sort of a thing a builder signs when he promises to have the workmen out of the house in a given time, and when the time comes (as my poor mother used to say) the workmen never go
Is there nothing about Love
Look a little lower down
Not a word. He sticks to his confounded 'Contract' all the way through
Then he's a brute! Go on to something else that's more in our way
Here's a bit that's more in our way: 'Incapacities. If any persons under legal incapacities come together, it is a meretricious, and not a matrimonial union.' (Blackstone's a good one at long words, isn't he? I wonder what he means by meretricious?) 'The first of these legal disabilities is a prior marriage, and having another husband or wife living
Stop
I must make a note of that
Good
I have no husband, and Allan has no wife. We are both entirely unmarried at the present time
All right, so far
Go on
What next
The next disability
is want of age. The age for consent to matrimony is, fourteen in males, and twelve in females.' Come
Blackstone begins early enough, at any rate
I am old enough to consent, and so is Allan too. Go on
Never mind all that prosing of Blackstone's, about the husband being of years of discretion, and the wife under twelve. Abominable wretch! the wife under twelve! Skip to the third incapacity, if there is one
The third incapacity
is want of reason
Allan and I are both perfectly reasonable. Skip to the next page
A fourth incapacity is in respect of proximity of relationship
He loves me, and I love him -- without our being in the slightest degree related to each other. Any more
Plenty more
all in hieroglyphics. Look here: 'Marriage Acts, 4 Geo. IV., c. 76, and 6 and 7 Will. IV., c. 85 (_q_).' Blackstone's intellect seems to be wandering here. Shall we take another skip, and see if he picks himself up again on the next page
Wait a little
what's that I see in the middle
I knew I was right
Oh, heavens, here it is
Where
I see nothing about languishing in prison, and cropping a fellow's hair close to his head, unless it's in the hieroglyphics. Is '4 Geo. IV.' short for 'Lock him up'? and does 'c. 85 (_q_)' mean, 'Send for the hair-cutter
Pray be serious
We are both sitting on a volcano. There
Read it! If anything can bring you to a proper sense of our situation, _that_ will
And as it is the policy of our law
to prevent the marriage of persons under the age of twenty-one, without the consent of parents and
Bad
it is provided that in the case of the publication of banns of a person under twenty-one, not being a widower or widow, who are deemed emancipated
if the parent or guardian openly signifies his dissent at the time the banns are published
such publication would be void.' I'll take breath here if you'll allow me
Blackstone might put it in shorter sentences, I think, if he can't put it in fewer words. Cheer up, Neelie! there must be other ways of marrying, besides this roundabout way, that ends in a Publication and a Void. Infernal gibberish! I could write better English myself
We are not at the end of it yet
The Void is nothing to what is to come
Whatever it is
we'll treat it like a dose of physic -- we'll take it at once, and be done with it
And no license to marry without banns shall be granted, unless oath shall be first made by one of the parties that he or she believes that there is no impediment of kindred or alliance'-- well, I can take my oath of that with a safe conscience! What next? 'And one of the said parties must, for the space of fifteen days immediately preceding such license, have had his or her usual place of abode within the parish or chapelry within which such marriage is to be solemnized!' Chapelry! I'd live fifteen days in a dog-kennel with the greatest pleasure. I say, Neelie, all this seems like plain sailing enough. What are you shaking your head about? Go on, and I shall see? Oh, all right; I'll go on. Here we are: 'And where one of the said parties, not being a widower or widow, shall be under the age of twenty-one years, oath must first be made that the consent of the person or persons whose consent is required has been obtained, or that there is no person having authority to give such consent. The consent required by this act is that of the father
The consent of the father
I couldn't exactly swear to that, could I
Bad
Our marriage is impossible, unless Allan commits perjury
Shut up the book
I have no doubt we should find the police, and the prison, and the hair-cutting -- all punishments for perjury, exactly as I told you!-- if we looked at the next page. But we needn't trouble ourselves to look; we have found out quite enough already. It's all over with us. I must go to school on Saturday, and you must manage to forget me as soon as you can. Perhaps we may meet in after-life, and you may be a widower and I may be a widow, and the cruel law may consider us emancipated, when it's too late to be of the slightest use. By that time, no doubt, I shall be old and ugly, and you will naturally have ceased to care about me, and it will all end in the grave, and the sooner the better. Good-by
It's only prolonging our misery to stop here, unless -- unless you have anything to propose
I've got something to propose
It's an entirely new idea. Would you mind trying the blacksmith at Gretna Green
No earthly consideration
would induce me to be married by a blacksmith
Don't be offended
I meant it for the best. Lots of people in our situation have tried the blacksmith, and found him quite as good as a clergyman, and a most amiable man, I believe, into the bargain. Never mind! We must try another string to our bow
We haven't got another to try
Take my word for it
there must be ways and means of circumventing Blackstone (without perjury), if we only knew of them. It's a matter of law, and we must consult somebody in the profession. I dare say it's a risk. But nothing venture, nothing have. What do you say to young Pedgift? He's a thorough good fellow. I'm sure we could trust young Pedgift to keep our secret
Not for worlds
You may be willing to trust your secrets to the vulgar little wretch; I won't have him trusted with mine. I hate him. No
I positively forbid you to take any of the Thorpe Ambrose people into your confidence. They would instantly suspect me, and it would be all over the place in a moment. My attachment may be an unhappy one
and papa may nip it in the bud, but I won't have it profaned by the town gossip
Hush! hush
I won't say a word at Thorpe Ambrose, I won't indeed
There's another way
We've got the whole week before us. I'll tell you what I'll do, I'll go to London
To London
To London
That's far enough away from Thorpe Ambrose, surely? Wait a minute, and don't forget that this is a question of law. Very well, I know some lawyers in London who managed all my business for me when I first came in for this property; they are just the men to consult. And if they decline to be mixed up in it, there's their head clerk, who is one of the best fellows I ever met with in my life. I asked him to go yachting with me, I remember; and, though he couldn't go, he said he felt the obligation all the same. That's the man to help us. Blackstone's a mere infant to him. Don't say it's absurd; don't say it's exactly like _me_. Do pray hear me out. I won't breathe your name or your father's. I'll describe you as 'a young lady to whom I am devotedly attached.' And if my friend the clerk asks where you live, I'll say the north of Scotland, or the west of Ireland, or the Channel Islands, or anywhere else you like. My friend the clerk is a total stranger to Thorpe Ambrose and everybody in it (which is one recommendation); and in five minutes' time he'd put me up to what to do (which is another). If you only knew him! He's one of those extraordinary men who appear once or twice in a century -- the sort of man who won't allow you to make a mistake if you try. All I have got to say to him (putting it short) is, 'My dear fellow, I want to be privately married without perjury.' All he has got to say to me (putting it short) is, 'You must do so-and-so and so-and-so, and you must be careful to avoid this, that, and the other.' I have nothing in the world to do but to follow his directions; and you have nothing in the world to do but what the bride always does when the bridegroom is ready and willing
Suppose I allow you to go, Allan
Shall you be very long away
I'll be off to-day
by the eleven o'clock train. And I'll be back to-morrow, if I and my friend the clerk can settle it all in time. If not, by Wednesday at latest
You'll write to me every day
I shall sink under the suspense, if you don't promise to write to me every day
And mind, whatever those people may say to you in London
I insist on your coming back for me. I positively decline to run away, unless you promise to fetch me
I know what will happen one of these days
You will see some other girl who is prettier than I am; and you will wish you had married her instead of me
Papa has always been so kind to me, Allan
It seems so guilty and so heartless to go away from him and be married in secret. Oh, do, do think before you really go to London; is there no way of making him a little kinder and juster to _you_
Cry, you little fool
Cry as you have never cried yet! You have seen the last of your sweetheart
Please to have a fly at the door at half-past ten
Now for my letter to the major
How shall I word it
HON'D SIR -- It is on my conscience to tell you something, which I think you ought to know. You ought to know of the goings-on of Miss, your daughter, with young Mister Armadale. I wish you to make sure, and, what is more, I advise you to be quick about it, if she is going the way you want her to go, when she takes her morning walk before breakfast. I scorn to make mischief, where there is true love on both sides. But I don't think the young man means truly by Miss. What I mean is, I think Miss only has his fancy. Another person, who shall be nameless betwixt us, has his true heart. Please to pardon my not putting my name; I am only a humble person, and it might get me into trouble. This is all at present, dear sir, from yours, "A WELL-WISHER
There
If I had been a professed novelist, I could hardly have written more naturally in the character of a servant than that
Curious
here I am, running headlong into a frightful risk -- and I never was in better spirits in my life
And though I dress quietly, my hair is so very remarkable
Come
you have been so kind, you have been so like a mother to me, you must give me a kiss at parting
If I was only rich enough to make it a sovereign
how glad I should be
You dear, dingy John
I am so poor I have only sixpence to give you -- with my very best wishes. Take my advice, John -- grow to be a fine man, and find yourself a nice sweetheart! Thank you a thousand times
Armadale next
How very fortunate
I am going to London too. Might I ask you Mr. Armadale (as you seem to be quite alone), to be my escort on the journey
I should be delighted
But I -- I'm what the people who get sick over a cigar call a slave to smoking
I delight in smoking
It's one of the privileges of the men which I have always envied. I'm afraid, Mr. Armadale, you must think I am forcing myself on you. It certainly looks like it. The real truth is, I want particularly to say a word to you in private about Mr. Midwinter
Damn her
You shan't be disturbed, sir
Stop
I don't want the carriage
She's got him, hasn't she
She'll come back 'Mrs. Armadale,' won't she
He'd better have stuck to Miss Milroy, hadn't he
Miss Milroy stuck to _him_. She paid him a visit at the great house, didn't she
Nothing of the sort; it's a shame to take the girl's character away. She was caught in a thunder-storm close by; he was obliged to give her shelter; and she's never been near the place since. Miss Gwilt's been there, if you like, with no thunderstorm to force _her_ in; and Miss Gwilt's off with him to London in a carriage all to themselves, eh, Mr. Mack
Ah, he's a soft one, that Armadale! with all his money, to take up with a red-haired woman, a good eight or nine years older than he is! She's thirty if she's a day. That's what I say, Mr. Mack. What do you say
Older or younger, she'll rule the roast at Thorpe Ambrose; and I say, for the sake of the place, and for the sake of trade, let's make the best of it; and Mr. Mack, as a man of the world, sees it in the same light as I do, don't you, sir
Gentlemen
she's a devilish fine woman. And when I was Mr. Armadale's age, it's my opinion, if her fancy had laid that way, she might have married Me
It's as good as saying that any of _us_ might have married her if _we_ had been Mr. Armadale's age
Why, bless my soul
it can't be Mr. Bashwood
Is your head bad
Take my advice. Go home and lie down
Yes, sir
I'll go home and lie down
That's right
And take a pill, Mr. Bashwood -- take a pill
Come, sir
I must lock up. Are you out of sorts? Anything wrong with your inside? Try a drop of gin-and-bitters
Yes
I'll try a drop of gin-and-bitters
You'll get it there
and you'll get it good
I shall get it there
and I shall get it good
Why, you've been drinking already
What was it? Beer
Gin-and-bitters will put you on your legs again
I'll be revenged on her
I'll be revenged on her
if I spend every half-penny I've got
Ah, you old brute
whatever she did, she served you right
If I had only dressed a little smarter
If I had only been a little bolder with her, she might have overlooked my being an old man
I'll be revenged on her
I'll be revenged on her, if I spend every half-penny I've got
I may be even with her yet
if Mr. Pedgift will help me!-- Stop, sir
If you please, sir, I want to speak to you
Come to the office in half an hour
I'm busy now
Half an hour
Time enough to compose myself; and I want time. Very kind of Mr. Pedgift, though he mightn't have meant it
let the light in on Miss Gwilt
See what he wants
And if it's nothing of importance, put it off to some other time
Well
Well
he is rather more shaky and unintelligible than usual. I can make nothing out of him, except that he persists in wanting to see you. My own idea
is that he is going to have a fit, and that he wishes to acknowledge your uniform kindness to him by obliging you with a private view of the whole proceeding
Be good enough to remember, Augustus
that my Room is not a Court of Law. A bad joke is not invariably followed by 'roars of laughter' _here_. Let Mr. Bashwood come in
You mustn't bleed him, sir
Hot-water bottles to the soles of his feet, and a mustard plaster on the pit of his stomach -- that's the modern treatment
Sit down, Bashwood
And don't forget that time's money. Out with it, whatever it is, at the quickest possible rate, and in the fewest possible words
Everybody in the place, Mr. Pedgift, sir, knows your time is valuable. Oh, dear, yes! oh, dear, yes! most valuable, most valuable! Excuse me, sir, I'm coming out with it. Your goodness -- or rather your business -- no, your goodness gave me half an hour to wait -- and I have thought of what I had to say, and prepared it, and put it short
Have you heard the news, sir
Does it concern _me_
It concerns a lady, sir -- no, not a lady -- a young man, I ought to say, in whom you used to feel some interest. Oh, Mr. Pedgift, sir, what do you think! Mr. Armadale and Miss Gwilt have gone up to London together to-day -- alone, sir -- alone in a carriage reserved for their two selves. Do you think he's going to marry her? Do you really think, like the rest of them, he's going to marry her
After my experience of Mr. Armadale
I believe him to be infatuated enough to marry Miss Gwilt a dozen times over, if Miss Gwilt chose to ask him. Your news doesn't surprise me in the least, Bashwood. I'm sorry for him. I can honestly say that, though he _has_ set my advice at defiance. And I'm more sorry still
I'm more sorry still for another person who shall be nameless. But what have I to do with all this? And what on earth is the matter with you
Are you ill? Is there something behind the curtain that you're afraid to bring out? I don't understand it. Have you come here -- here in my private room, in business hours -- with nothing to tell me but that young Armadale has been fool enough to ruin his prospects for life? Why, I foresaw it all weeks since, and what is more, I as good as told him so at the last conversation I had with him in the great house
That's it, sir
that's what I wanted to speak to you about; that's what I've been preparing in my mind. Mr. Pedgift, sir, the last time you were at the great house, when you came away in your gig, you -- you overtook me on the drive
I dare say I did
My mare happens to be a trifle quicker on her legs than you are on yours, Bashwood. Go on, go on. We shall come in time, I suppose, to what you are driving at
You stopped, and spoke to me, sir
You said you suspected me of feeling some curiosity about Miss Gwilt, and you told me (I remember the exact words, sir)-- you told me to gratify my curiosity by all means, for you didn't object to it
I remember something of the sort
and I also remember thinking it rather remarkable that you should _happen_ -- we won't put it in any more offensive way -- to be exactly under Mr. Armadale's open window while I was talking to him. It might have been accident, of course; but it looked rather more like curiosity. I could only judge by appearances
and appearances, Bashwood, were decidedly against you
I don't deny it, sir. I only mentioned the circumstance because I wished to acknowledge that I _was_ curious, and _am_ curious about Miss Gwilt
Why
I feel some curiosity sir
about Miss Gwilt
Well
let us say you feel a curiosity about Miss Gwilt. What next
May I ask if I am right, sir
in believing that you have a very unfavorable opinion of Miss Gwilt? You are quite convinced, I think
My good fellow
why need you be in any doubt about it? You were under Mr. Armadale's open window all the while I was talking to him; and your ears, I presume, were not absolutely shut
You are quite convinced, I think, sir
that there are circumstances in this lady's past life which would be highly discreditable to her if they were discovered at the present time
The window was open at the great house, Bashwood; and your ears, I presume, were not absolutely shut
Unless I am greatly mistaken
your long experience in such things has even suggested to you, sir, that Miss Gwilt might turn out to be known to the police
You have been over ten minutes in this room
Can you, or can you not, tell me in plain English what you want
I wish to say, sir
that your opinion in this matter is my opinion too. I believe there is something wrong in Miss Gwilt's past life which she keeps concealed from everybody, and I want to be the man who knows it
Why
One of us must speak out
and as you evidently won't, I will. I can only account for this extraordinary anxiety of yours to make yourself acquainted with Miss Gwilt's secrets, in one of two ways. Your motive is either an excessively mean one (no offense, Bashwood, I am only putting the case), or an excessively generous one. After my experience of your honest character and your creditable conduct, it is only your due that I should absolve you at once of the mean motive. I believe you are as incapable as I am -- I can say no more -- of turning to mercenary account any discoveries you might make to Miss Gwilt's prejudice in Miss Gwilt's past life. Shall I go on any further? or would you prefer, on second thoughts, opening your mind frankly to me of your own accord
I should prefer not interrupting you, sir
As you please
Having absolved you of the mean motive, I come to the generous motive next. It is possible that you are an unusually grateful man; and it is certain that Mr. Armadale has been remarkably kind to you. After employing you under Mr. Midwinter, in the steward's office, he has had confidence enough in your honesty and your capacity, now his friend has left him, to put his business entirely and unreservedly in your hands. It's not in my experience of human nature -- but it may be possible, nevertheless --- that you are so gratefully sensible of that confidence, and so gratefully interested in your employer's welfare, that you can't see him, in his friendless position, going straight to his own disgrace and ruin, without making an effort to save him. To put it in two words. Is it your idea that Mr. Armadale might be prevented from marrying Miss Gwilt, if he could be informed in time of her real character? And do you wish to be the man who opens his eyes to the truth? If that is the case
Say it again, sir
The question about Mr. Armadale, sir!-- only once more!-- only once more, Mr. Pedgift, please
Do I think
that Mr. Armadale might be parted from Miss Gwilt, if she could be shown to him as she really is? Yes, sir! And do I wish to be the man who does it? Yes, sir! yes, sir!! yes, sir
It's rather strange
that you should be so violently agitated, simply because my question happens to have hit the mark
One thing is clear
His true motive in this matter is a motive which he is afraid to avow. My question evidently offered him a chance of misleading me, and he has accepted it on the spot. That's enough for _me_. If I was Mr. Armadale's lawyer, the mystery might be worth investigating. As things are, it's no interest of mine to hunt Mr. Bashwood from one lie to another till I run him to earth at last. I have nothing whatever to do with it; and I shall leave him free to follow his own roundabout courses, in his own roundabout way
Don't be alarmed, Bashwood
The subject of our conversation is a subject exhausted, so far as I am concerned. I have only a few last words to say, and it's a habit of mine, as you know, to say my last words on my legs. Whatever else I may be in the dark about, I have made one discovery, at any rate. I have found out what you really want with me -- at last! You want me to help you
If you would be so very, very kind, sir
If you would only give me the great advantage of your opinion and advice
Wait a bit, Bashwood We will separate those two things, if you please. A lawyer may offer an opinion like any other man; but when a lawyer gives his advice -- by the Lord Harry, sir, it's Professional! You're welcome to my opinion in this matter; I have disguised it from nobody. I believe there have been events in Miss Gwilt's career which (if they could be discovered) would even make Mr. Armadale, infatuated as he is, afraid to marry her -- supposing, of course, that he really _is_ going to marry her; for, though the appearances are in favor of it so far, it is only an assumption, after all. As to the mode of proceeding by which the blots on this woman's character might or might not be brought to light in time -- she may be married by license in a fortnight if she likes -- _that_ is a branch of the question on which I positively decline to enter. It implies speaking in my character as a lawyer, and giving you, what I decline positively to give you, my professional advice
Oh, sir, don't say that
Don't deny me the great favor, the inestimable advantage of your advice! I have such a poor head, Mr. Pedgift! I am so old and so slow, sir, and I get so sadly startled and worried when I'm thrown out of my ordinary ways. It's quite natural you should be a little impatient with me for taking up your time -- I know that time is money, to a clever man like you. Would you excuse me -- would you please excuse me, if I venture to say that I have saved a little something, a few pounds, sir; and being quite lonely, with nobody dependent on me, I'm sure I may spend my savings as I please
Put your pocket-book back directly
Richer men than you have tried that argument with me, and have found that there is such a thing (off the stage) as a lawyer who is not to be bribed. I will have nothing to do with the case, under existing circumstances. If you want to know why, I beg to inform you that Miss Gwilt ceased to be professionally interesting to me on the day when I ceased to be Mr. Armadale's lawyer. I may have other reasons besides, which I don't think it necessary to mention. The reason already given is explicit enough. Go your own way, and take your responsibility on your own shoulders. You _may_ venture within reach of Miss Gwilt's claws and come out again without being scratched. Time will show. In the meanwhile, I wish you good-morning -- and I own, to my shame, that I never knew till today what a hero you were
Bashwood will end badly
I wonder whether _you_ would help me
Open an account instantly
in the name of Mr. Bashwood. Place a chair for Mr. Bashwood, with a footstool close by, in case he wants it. Supply me with a quire of extra double-wove satin paper, and a gross of picked quills, to take notes of Mr. Bashwood's case; and inform my father instantly that I am going to leave him and set up in business for myself, on the strength of Mr. Bashwood's patronage. Take a seat, sir, pray take a seat, and express your feelings freely
I ought to have known better
He is his father's son all over -- he would make game of me on my death-bed
I'd better go home
and shut myself up, and think about it in my own room
I'm feverish and thirsty
a cup of tea may help me
Even my own hands won't serve me to-day
What did you please to want, sir
Boiling water, is it? Did you ever know the water boil, Mr. Bashwood, when you wanted it? Did you ever see a sulkier fire than that? I'll put a stick or two in, if you'll wait a little, and give me the chance. Dear, dear me, you'll excuse my mentioning it, sir, but how poorly you do look to-day
I'm in trouble, ma'am
and I find trouble gets harder to bear than it used to be
Ah, you may well say that
_I'm_ ready for the undertaker, Mr. Bashwood, when _my_ time comes, whatever you may be. You're too lonely, sir. When you're in trouble, it's some help -- though not much -- to shift a share of it off on another person's shoulders. If your good lady had only been alive now, sir, what a comfort you would have found her, wouldn't you
What I always say to my husband when he's low, sir
is, 'What would you do _now_, Sam, without me?' When his temper don't get the better of him (it will boil directly, Mr. Bashwood), he says, 'Elizabeth, I could do nothing.' When his temper does get the better of him, he says, 'I should try the public-house, missus; and I'll try it now.' Ah, I've got _my_ troubles! A man with grown-up sons and daughters tippling in a public-house! I don't call to mind, Mr. Bashwood, whether _you_ ever had any sons and daughters? And yet, now I think of it, I seem to fancy you said yes, you had. Daughters, sir, weren't they? and, ah, dear! dear! to be sure! all dead
I had one daughter, ma'am
only one, who died before she was a year old
Only one
It's as near boiling as it ever will be, sir; give me the tea-pot. Only one! Ah, it comes heavier (don't it?) when it's an only child? You said it was an only child, I think, didn't you, sir
I have a son, ma'am
I did my best to help him forward in the world, and he has behaved very badly to me
Did he, now
Behaved badly to you -- almost broke your heart, didn't he? Ah, it will come home to him, sooner or later. Don't you fear! 'Honor your father and mother,' wasn't put on Moses's tables of stone for nothing, Mr. Bashwood. Where may he be, and what is he doing now, sir
My son is in London, ma'am, for all I know to the contrary. He was employed, when I last heard of him, in no very creditable way, at the Private Inquiry Office
I hope I've not offended you, sir
Far from it, ma'am, far from it
I have just remembered something -- something very important. I must go upstairs -- it's a letter, a letter, a letter. I'll come back to my tea, ma'am. I beg your pardon, I'm much obliged to you, you've been very kind -- I'll say good-by, if you'll allow me, for the present
That for you, Mr. Pedgift and Son
I've got a son too
No! no
I'm quite well -- I'm writing, ma'am, I'm writing -- please to excuse me. She's a good woman; she's an excellent woman
I'll make her a little present. My mind's so unsettled, I might never have thought of it but for her. Oh, if my boy is at the office still! Oh, if I can only write a letter that will make him pity me
MY DEAR JAMES -- You will be surprised, I am afraid, to see my handwriting. Pray don't suppose I am going to ask you for money, or to reproach you for having sold me out of house and home when you forfeited your security, and I had to pay. I am willing and anxious to let by-gones be by-gones, and to forget the past. "It is in your power (if you are still at the Private Inquiry Office) to do me a great service. I am in sore anxiety and trouble on the subject of a person in whom I am interested. The person is a lady. Please don't make game of me for confessing this, if you can help it. If you knew what I am now suffering, I think you would be more inclined to pity than to make game of me. 

"I would enter into particulars, only I know your quick temper, and I fear exhausting your patience. Perhaps it may be enough to say that I have reason to believe the lady's past life has not been a very creditable one, and that I am interested -- more interested than words can tell -- in finding out what her life has really been, and in making the discovery within a fortnight from the present time. 

"Though I know very little about the ways of business in an office like yours, I can understand that, without first having the lady's present address, nothing can be done to help me. Unfortunately, I am not yet acquainted with her present address. I only know that she went to town to-day, accompanied by a gentleman, in whose employment I now am, and who (as I believe) will be likely to write to me for money before many days more are over his head. 

"Is this circumstance of a nature to help us? I venture to say 'us,' because I count already, my dear boy, on your kind assistance and advice. Don't let money stand between us; I have saved a little something, and it is all freely at your disposal. Pray, pray write to me by return of post! If you will only try your best to end the dreadful suspense under which I am now suffering, you will atone for all the grief and disappointment you caused me in times that are past, and you will confer an obligation that he will never forget on 

"Your affectionate father, 

"FELIX BASHWOOD
The Private Inquiry Office, Shadyside Place, London
Shadyside Place. Tuesday, July29 th. "MY DEAR DAD -- We have some little practice in dealing with mysteries at this office; but the mystery of your letter beats me altogether. Are you speculating on the interesting hidden frailties of some charming woman? Or, after _your_ experience of matrimony, are you actually going to give me a stepmother at this time of day? Whichever it is, upon my life your letter interests me. 

"I am not joking, mind -- though the temptation is not an easy one to resist. On the contrary, I have given you a quarter of an hour of my valuable time already. The place you date from sounded somehow familiar to me. I referred back to the memorandum book, and found that I was sent down to Thorpe Ambrose to make private inquiries not very long since. My employer was a lively old lady, who was too sly to give us her right name and address. As a matter of course, we set to work at once, and found out who she was. Her name is Mrs. Oldershaw; and, if you think of _her_ for my stepmother, I strongly recommend you to think again before you make her Mrs. Bashwood. 

"If it is not Mrs. Oldershaw, then all I can do, so far, is to tell you how you may find out the unknown lady's address. Come to town yourself as soon as you get the letter you expect from the gentleman who has gone away with her (I hope he is not a handsome young man, for your sake) and call here. I will send somebody to help you in watching his hotel or lodgings; and if he communicates with the lady, or the lady with him, you may consider her address discovered from that moment. Once let me identify her, and know where she is, and you shall see all her charming little secrets as plainly as you see the paper on which your affectionate son is now writing to you. 

"A word more about the terms. I am as willing as you are to be friends again; but, though I own you were out of pocket by me once, I can't afford to be out of pocket by you. It must be understood that you are answerable for all the expenses of the inquiry. We may have to employ some of the women attached to this office, if your lady is too wideawake or too nice-looking to be dealt with by a man. There will be cab hire, and postage-stamps -- admissions to public amusements, if she is inclined that way -- shillings for pew-openers, if she is serious, and takes our people into churches to hear popular preachers, and so on. My own professional services you shall have gratis; but I can't lose by you as well. Only remember that, and you shall have your way. By-gones shall be by-gones, and we will forget the past. 

"Your affectionate son, 

"JAMES BASHWOOD
My good boy
my dear, good boy
To-morrow
Or next day
You may count on my staying here till further notice
She likes bright colors
and she may see me in it yet
I have tried to rest and recover myself. I can't rest. I have come back to these leaves. There is much to be written in them since Midwinter has been here, that concerns me nearly. "Let me begin with what I hate most to remember, and so be the sooner done with it -- let me begin with the paltry string of falsehoods which I told him about my family troubles. 

"What _can_ be the secret of this man's hold on me? How is it that he alters me so that I hardly know myself again? I was like myself in the railway carriage yesterday with Armadale. It was surely frightful to be talking to the living man, through the whole of that long journey, with the knowledge in me all the while that I meant to be his widow -- and yet I was only excited and fevered. Hour after hour I never shrunk once from speaking to Armadale; but the first trumpery falsehood I told Midwinter turned me cold when I saw that he believed it! I felt a dreadful hysterical choking in the throat when he entreated me not to reveal my troubles. And once -- I am horrified when I think of it -- once, when he said, 'If I _could_ love you more dearly, I should love you more dearly now,' I was within a hair-breadth of turning traitor to myself. I was on the very point of crying out to him, 'Lies! all lies! I'm a fiend in human shape! Marry the wretchedest creature that prowls the streets, and you will marry a better woman than me!' Yes! the seeing his eyes moisten, the hearing his voice tremble, while I was deceiving him, shook me in that way. I have seen handsomer men by hundreds, cleverer men by dozens. What can this man have roused in me? Is it Love? I thought I _had_ loved, never to love again. Does a woman not love when the man's hardness to her drives her to drown herself? A man drove _me_ to that last despair in days gone by. Did all my misery at that time come from something which was not Love? Have I lived to be five-and-thirty, and am I only feeling now what Love really is?-- now, when it is too late? Ridiculous! Besides, what is the use of asking? What do I know about it? What does any woman ever know? The more we think of it, the more we deceive ourselves. I wish I had been born an animal. My beauty might have been of some use to me then -- it might have got me a good master
Thank you,' I said, 'for putting me right in your friend's estimation. Does he wish to see me?' I added, by way of getting back to the other subject of Miss Milroy and the elopement. "'He is longing to see you,' returned Midwinter. 'He is in great distress, poor fellow -- distress which I have done my best to soothe, but which, I believe, would yield far more readily to a woman's sympathy than to mine.' 

"'Where is he now?' I asked. 

"He was at the hotel; and to the hotel I instantly proposed that we should go. It is a busy, crowded place; and (with my veil down) I have less fear of compromising myself there than at my quiet lodgings. Besides, it is vitally important to me to know what Armadale does next, under this total change of circumstances -- for I must so control his proceedings as to get him away from England if I can. We took a cab: such was my eagerness to sympathize with the heart-broken lover, that we took a cab! 

"Anything so ridiculous as Armadale's behavior under the double shock of discovering that his young lady has been taken away from him, and that I am to be married to Midwinter, I never before witnessed in all my experience. To say that he was like a child is a libel on all children who are not born idiots. He congratulated me on my coming marriage, and execrated the unknown wretch who had written the anonymous letter, little thinking that he was speaking of one and the same person in one and the same breath. Now he submissively acknowledged that Major Milroy had his rights as a father, and now he reviled the major as having no feeling for anything but his mechanics and his clock. At one moment he started up, with the tears in his eyes, and declared that his 'darling Neelie' was an angel on earth. At another he sat down sulkily, and thought that a girl of her spirit might have run away on the spot and joined him in London. After a good half-hour of this absurd exhibition, I succeeded in quieting him; and then a few words of tender inquiry produced what I had expressly come to the hotel to see -- Miss Milroy's letter. 

"It was outrageously long, and rambling, and confused; in short, the letter of a fool. I had to wade through plenty of vulgar sentiment and lamentation, and to lose time and patience over maudlin outbursts of affection, and nauseous kisses inclosed in circles of ink. However, I contrived to extract the information I wanted at last; and here it is: 

"The major, on receipt of my anonymous warning, appears to have sent at once for his daughter, and to have shown her the letter. 'You know what a hard life I lead with your mother; don't make it harder still, Neelie, by deceiving me.' That was all the poor old gentleman said. I always did like the major; and, though he was afraid to show it, I know he always liked me. His appeal to his daughter (if _her_ account of it is to be believed) cut her to the heart. She burst out crying (let her alone for crying at the right moment!) and confessed everything. 

"After giving her time to recover herself (if he had given her a good box on the ears it would have been more to the purpose!), the major seems to have put certain questions, and to have become convinced (as I was convinced myself) that his daughter's heart, or fancy, or whatever she calls it, was really and truly set on Armadale. The discovery evidently distressed as well as surprised him. He appears to have hesitated, and to have maintained his own unfavorable opinion of Miss Neelie's lover for some little time. But his daughter's tears and entreaties (so like the weakness of the dear old gentleman!) shook him at last. Though he firmly refused to allow of any marriage engagement at present, he consented to overlook the clandestine meetings in the park, and to put Armadale's fitness to become his son-in-law to the test, on certain conditions. 

"These conditions are, that for the next six months to come all communication is to be broken off, both personally and by writing, between Armadale and Miss Milroy. That space of time is to be occupied by the young gentleman as he himself thinks best, and by the young lady in completing her education at school. If, when the six months have passed, they are both still of the same mind, and if Armadale's conduct in the interval has been such as to improve the major's opinion of him, he will be allowed to present himself in the character of Miss Milroy's suitor, and, in six months more, if all goes well, the marriage may take place. 

"I declare I could kiss the dear old major, if I was only within reach of him! If I had been at his elbow, and had dictated the conditions myself, I could have asked for nothing better than this. Six months of total separation between Armadale and Miss Milroy! In half that time -- with all communication cut off between the two -- it must go hard with me, indeed, if I don't find myself dressed in the necessary mourning, and publicly recognized as Armadale's widow. 

"But I am forgetting the girl's letter. She gives her father's reasons for making his conditions, in her father's own words. The major seems to have spoken so sensibly and so feelingly that he left his daughter no decent alternative -- and he leaves Armadale no decent alternative -- but to submit. As well as I can remember, he seems to have expressed himself to Miss Neelie in these, or nearly in these terms: 

"'Don't think I am behaving cruelly to you, my dear: I am merely asking you to put Mr. Armadale to the proof. It is not only right, it is absolutely necessary, that you should hold no communication with him for some time to come; and I will show you why. In the first place, if you go to school, the necessary rules in such places -- necessary for the sake of the other girls -- would not permit you to see Mr. Armadale or to receive letters from him; and, if you are to become mistress of Thorpe Ambrose, to school you must go, for you would be ashamed, and I should be ashamed, if you occupied the position of a lady of station without having the accomplishments which all ladies of station are expected to possess. In the second place, I want to see whether Mr. Armadale will continue to think of you as he thinks now, without being encouraged in his attachment by seeing you, or reminded of it by hearing from you. If I am wrong in thinking him flighty and unreliable, and if your opinion of him is the right one, this is not putting the young man to an unfair test -- true love survives much longer separations than a separation of six months. And when that time is over, and well over; and when I have had him under my own eye for another six months, and have learned to think as highly of him as you do -- even then, my dear, after all that terrible delay, you will still be a married woman before you are eighteen. Think of this, Neelie, and show that you love me and trust me, by accepting my proposal. I will hold no communication with Mr. Armadale myself. I will leave it to you to write and tell him what has been decided on. He may write back one letter, and one only, to acquaint you with his decision. After that, for the sake of your reputation, nothing more is to be said, and nothing more is to be done, and the matter is to be kept strictly private until the six months' interval is at an end.' 

"To this effect the major spoke. His behavior to that little slut of a girl has produced a stronger impression on me than anything else in the letter. It has set me thinking (me, of all the people in the world!) of what they call 'a moral difficulty.' We are perpetually told that there can be no possible connection between virtue and vice. Can there not? Here is Major Milroy doing exactly what an excellent father, at once kind and prudent, affectionate and firm, would do under the circumstances; and by that very course of conduct he has now smoothed the way for _me_, as completely as if he had been the chosen accomplice of that abominable creature, Miss Gwilt. Only think of my reasoning in this way! But I am in such good spirits, I can do anything to-day. I have not looked so bright and so young as I look now for months past! 

"To return to the letter, for the last time -- it is so excessively dull and stupid that I really can't help wandering away from it into reflections of my own, as a mere relief. 

"After solemnly announcing that she meant to sacrifice herself to her beloved father's wishes (the brazen assurance of her setting up for a martyr after what has happened exceeds anything I ever heard or read of!), Miss Neelie next mentioned that the major proposed taking her to the seaside for change of air, during the few days that were still to elapse before she went to school. Armadale was to send his answer by return of post, and to address her, under cover to her father, at Lowestoft. With this, and with a last outburst of tender protestation, crammed crookedly into a corner of the page, the letter ended. (N.B.-- The major's object in taking her to the seaside is plain enough. He still privately distrusts Armadale, and he is wisely determined to prevent any more clandestine meetings in the park before the girl is safely disposed of at school.) 

"When I had done with the letter -- I had requested permission to read parts of it which I particularly admired, for the second and third time!-- we all consulted together in a friendly way about what Armadale was to do. 

"He was fool enough, at the outset, to protest against submitting to Major Milroy's conditions. He declared, with his odious red face looking the picture of brute health, that he should never survive a six months' separation from his beloved Neelie. Midwinter (as may easily be imagined) seemed a little ashamed of him, and joined me in bringing him to his senses. We showed him, what would have been plain enough to anybody but a booby, that there was no honorable or even decent alternative left but to follow the example of submission set by the young lady. 'Wait, and you will have her for your wife,' was what I said. 'Wait, and you will force the major to alter his unjust opinion of you,' was what Midwinter added. With two clever people hammering common sense into his head at that rate, it is needless to say that his head gave way, and he submitted. 

"Having decided him to accept the major's conditions (I was careful to warn him, before he wrote to Miss Milroy, that my engagement to Midwinter was to be kept as strictly secret from her as from everybody else), the next question we had to settle related to his future proceedings. I was ready with the necessary arguments to stop him, if he had proposed returning to Thorpe Ambrose. But he proposed nothing of the sort. On the contrary, he declared, of his own accord, that nothing would induce him to go back. The place and the people were associated with everything that was hateful to him. There would be no Miss Milroy now to meet him in the park, and no Midwinter to keep him company in the solitary house. 'I'd rather break stones on the road,' was the sensible and cheerful way in which he put it, 'than go back to Thorpe Ambrose.' 

"The first suggestion after this came from Midwinter. The sly old clergyman who gave Mrs. Oldershaw and me so much trouble has, it seems, been ill, but has been latterly reported better. 'Why not go to Somersetshire,' said Midwinter, 'and see your good friend, and my good friend, Mr. Brock?' 

"Armadale caught at the proposal readily enough. He longed, in the first place, to see 'dear old Brock,' and he longed, in the second place, to see his yacht. After staying a few days more in London with Midwinter, he would gladly go to Somersetshire. But what after that? 

"Seeing my opportunity, _I_ came to the rescue this time. 'You have got a yacht, Mr. Armadale,' I said; 'and you know that Midwinter is going to Italy. When you are tired of Somersetshire, why not make a voyage to the Mediterranean, and meet your friend, and your friend's wife, at Naples?' 

"I made the allusion to 'his friend's wife' with the most becoming modesty and confusion. Armadale was enchanted. I had hit on the best of all ways of occupying the weary time. He started up, and wrung my hand in quite an ecstasy of gratitude. How I do hate people who can only express their feelings by hurting other people's hands! 

"Midwinter was as pleased with my proposal as Armadale; but he saw difficulties in the way of carrying it out. He considered the yacht too small for a cruise to the Mediterranean, and he thought it desirable to hire a larger vessel. His friend thought otherwise. I left them arguing the question. It was quite enough for me to have made sure, in the first place, that Armadale will not return to Thorpe Ambrose; and to have decided him, in the second place, on going abroad. He may go how he likes. 

"Five o'clock.-- The excitement of feeling that I had got Armadale's future movements completely under my own control made me so restless, when I returned to my lodgings, that I was obliged to go out again, and do something. A new interest to occupy me being what I wanted, I went to Pimlico to have it out with Mother Oldershaw. 

"I walked; and made up my mind, on the way, that I would begin by quarreling with her. 

"One of my notes of hand being paid already, and Midwinter being willing to pay the other two when they fall due, my present position with the old wretch is as independent a one as I could desire. I always get the better of her when it comes to a downright battle between us, and find her wonderfully civil and obliging the moment I have made her feel that mine is the strongest will of the two. In my present situation, she might be of use to me in various ways, if I could secure her assistance, without trusting her with secrets which I am now more than ever determined to keep to myself. That was my idea as I walked to Pimlico. Upsetting Mother Oldershaw's nerves, in the first place, and then twisting her round my little finger, in the second, promised me, as I thought, an interesting occupation for the rest of the afternoon. 

"When I got to Pimlico, a surprise was in store for we. The house was shut up -- not only on Mrs. Oldershaw's side, but on Doctor Downward's as well. A padlock was on the shop door; and a man was hanging about on the watch, who might have been an ordinary idler certainly, but who looked, to my mind, like a policeman in disguise. 

"Knowing the risks the doctor runs in his particular form of practice, I suspected at once that something serious had happened, and that even cunning Mrs. Oldershaw was compromised this time. Without stopping, or making any inquiry, therefore, I called the first cab that passed me, and drove to the post- office to which I had desired my letters to be forwarded if any came for me after I left my Thorpe Ambrose lodging. 

"On inquiry a letter was produced for 'Miss Gwilt.' It was in Mother Oldershaw's handwriting, and it told me (as I had supposed) that the doctor had got into a serious difficulty -- that she was herself most unfortunately mixed up in the matter, and that they were both in hiding for the present. The letter ended with some sufficiently venomous sentences about my conduct at Thorpe Ambrose, and with a warning that I have not heard the last of Mrs. Oldershaw yet. It relieved me to find her writing in this way -- for she would have been civil and cringing if she had had any suspicion of what I have really got in view. I burned the letter as soon as the candles came up. And there, for the present, is an end of the connection between Mother Jezebel and me. I must do all my own dirty work now; and I shall be all the safer, perhaps, for trusting nobody's hands to do it but my own. 

"July31 st.-- More useful information for me. I met Midwinter again in the Park (on the pretext that my reputation might suffer if he called too often at my lodgings), and heard the last news of Armadale since I left the hotel yesterday. 

"After he had written to Miss Milroy, Midwinter took the opportunity of speaking to him about the necessary business arrangements during his absence from the great house. It was decided that the servants should be put on board wages, and that Mr. Bashwood should be left in charge. (Somehow, I don't like this re-appearance of Mr. Bashwood in connection with my present interests, but there is no help for it.) The next question -- the question of money -- was settled at once by Mr. Armadale himself. All his available ready-money (a large sum) is to be lodged by Mr. Bashwood in Coutts's Bank, and to be there deposited in Armadale's name. This, he said, would save him the worry of any further letter-writing to his steward, and would enable him to get what he wanted, when he went abroad, at a moment's notice. The plan thus proposed, being certainly the simplest and the safest, was adopted with Midwinter's full concurrence; and here the business discussion would have ended, if the everlasting Mr. Bashwood had not turned up again in the conversation, and prolonged it in an entirely new direction. 

"On reflection, it seems to have struck Midwinter that the whole responsibility at Thorpe Ambrose ought not to rest on Mr. Bashwood's shoulders. Without in the least distrusting him, Midwinter felt, nevertheless, that he ought to have somebody set over him, to apply to in case of emergency. Armadale made no objection to this; he only asked, in his helpless way, who the person was to be? 

"The answer was not an easy one to arrive at. 

"Either of the two solicitors at Thorpe Ambrose might have been employed, but Armadale was on bad terms with both of them. Any reconciliation with such a bitter enemy as the elder lawyer, Mr. Darch, was out of the question; and reinstating Mr. Pedgift in his former position implied a tacit sanction on Armadale's part of the lawyer's abominable conduct toward _me_, which was scarcely consistent with the respect and regard that he felt for a lady who was soon to be his friend's wife. After some further discussion, Midwinter hit on a new suggestion which appeared to meet the difficulty. He proposed that Armadale should write to a respectable solicitor at Norwich, stating his position in general terms, and requesting that gentleman to act as Mr. Bashwood's adviser and superintendent when occasion required. Norwich being within an easy railway ride of Thorpe Ambrose, Armadale saw no objection to the proposal, and promised to write to the Norwich lawyer. Fearing that he might make some mistake if he wrote without assistance, Midwinter had drawn him out a draft of the necessary letter, and Armadale was now engaged in copying the draft, and also in writing to Mr. Bashwood to lodge the money immediately in Coutts's Bank. 

"These details are so dry and uninteresting in themselves that I hesitated at first about putting them down in my diary. But a little reflection has convinced me that they are too important to be passed over. Looked at from my point of view, they mean this -- that Armadale's own act is now cutting him off from all communication with Thorpe Ambrose, even by letter. _He is as good as dead already to everybody he leaves behind him_. The causes which have led to such a result as that are causes which certainly claim the best place I can give them in these pages. 

"August1 st.-- Nothing to record, but that I have had a long, quiet, happy day with Midwinter. He hired a carriage, and we drove to Richmond, and dined there. After to-day's experience, it is impossible to deceive myself any longer. Come what may of it, I love him. 

"I have fallen into low spirits since he left me. A persuasion has taken possession of my mind that the smooth and prosperous course of my affairs since I have been in London is too smooth and prosperous to last. There is something oppressing me to-night, which is more than the oppression of the heavy London air. 

"August2 d.-- Three o'clock.-- My presentiments, like other people's, have deceived me often enough; but I am almost afraid that my presentiment of last night was really prophetic, for once in a way. 

"I went after breakfast to a milliner's in this neighborhood to order a few cheap summer things, and thence to Midwinter's hotel to arrange with him for another day in the country. I drove to the milliner's and to the hotel, and part of the way back. Then, feeling disgusted with the horrid close smell of the cab (somebody had been smoking in it, I suppose), I got out to walk the rest of the way. Before I had been two minutes on my feet, I discovered that I was being followed by a strange man. 

"This may mean nothing but that an idle fellow has been struck by my figure, and my appearance generally. My face could have made no impression on him, for it was hidden as usual by my veil. Whether he followed me (in a cab, of course) from the milliner's, or from the hotel, I cannot say. Nor am I quite certain whether he did or did not track me to this door. I only know that I lost sight of him before I got back. There is no help for it but to wait till events enlighten me. If there is anything serious in what has happened, I shall soon discover it. 

"Five o'clock.-- It _is_ serious. Ten minutes since, I was in my bedroom, which communicates with the sitting-room. I was just coming out, when I heard a strange voice on the landing outside -- a woman's voice. The next instant the sitting-room door was suddenly opened; the woman's voice said, 'Are these the apartments you have got to let?' and though the landlady, behind her, answered, 'No! higher up, ma'am,' the woman came on straight to my bedroom, as if she had not heard. I had just time to slam the door in her face before she saw me. The necessary explanations and apologies followed between the landlady and the stranger in the sitting-room, and then I was left alone again. 

"I have no time to write more. It is plain that somebody has an interest in trying to identify me, and that, but for my own quickness, the strange woman would have accomplished this object by taking me by surprise. She and the man who followed me in the street are, I suspect, in league together; and there is probably somebody in the background whose interests they are serving. Is Mother Oldershaw attacking me in the dark? or who else can it be? No matter who it is; my present situation is too critical to be trifled with. I must get away from this house to-night, and leave no trace behind me by which I can be followed to another place. 

"August3 d.-- Gary Street, Tottenham Court Road.-- I got away last night (after writing an excuse to Midwinter, in which 'my invalid mother' figured as the all-sufficient cause of my disappearance); and I have found refuge here. It has cost me some money; but my object is attained! Nobody can possibly have traced me from All Saints' Terrace to this address. 

"After paying my landlady the necessary forfeit for leaving her without notice, I arranged with her son that he should take my boxes in a cab to the cloak-room at the nearest railway station, and send me the ticket in a letter, to wait my application for it at the post-office. While he went his way in one cab, I went mine in another, with a few things for the night in my little hand-bag. 

"I drove straight to the milliner's shop, which I had observed, when I was there yesterday, had a back entrance into a mews, for the apprentices to go in and out by. I went in at once, leaving the cab waiting for me at the door. 'A man is following me,' I said, 'and I want to get rid of him. Here is my cab fare; wait ten minutes before you give it to the driver, and let me out at once by the back way!' In a moment I was out in the mews; in another, I was in the next street; in a third, I hailed a passing omnibus, and was a free woman again. 

"Having now cut off all communication between me and my last lodgings, the next precaution (in case Midwinter or Armadale are watched) is to cut off all communication, for some days to come at least, between me and the hotel. I have written to Midwinter -- making my supposititious mother once more the excuse -- to say that I am tied to my nursing duties, and that we must communicate by writing only for the present. Doubtful as I still am of who my hidden enemy really is, I can do no more to defend myself than I have done now. 

"August4 th.-- The two friends at the hotel had both written to me. Midwinter expresses his regret at our separation, in the tenderest terms. Armadale writes an entreaty for help under very awkward circumstances. A letter from Major Milroy has been forwarded to him from the great house, and he incloses it in his letter to me. 

"Having left the seaside, and placed his daughter safely at the school originally chosen for her (in the neighborhood of Ely), the major appears to have returned to Thorpe Ambrose at the close of last week; to have heard then, for the first time, the reports about Armadale and me; and to have written instantly to Armadale to tell him so. 

"The letter is stern and short. Major Milroy dismisses the report as unworthy of credit, because it is impossible for him to believe in such an act of 'cold-blooded treachery,' as the scandal would imply, if the scandal were true. He simply writes to warn Armadale that, if he is not more careful in his actions for the future, he must resign all pretensions to Miss Milroy's hand. 'I neither expect, nor wish for, an answer to this' (the letter ends), 'for I desire to receive no mere protestations in words. By your conduct, and by your conduct alone, I shall judge you as time goes on. Let me also add that I positively forbid you to consider this letter as an excuse for violating the terms agreed on between us, by writing again to my daughter. You have no need to justify yourself in her eyes, for I fortunately removed her from Thorpe Ambrose before this abominable report had time to reach her; and I shall take good care, for her sake, that she is not agitated and unsettled by hearing it where she is now.' 

"Armadale's petition to me, under these circumstances, entreats (as I am the innocent cause of the new attack on his character) that I will write to the major to absolve him of all indiscretion in the matter, and to say that he could not, in common politeness, do otherwise than accompany me to London. 

"I forgive the impudence of his request, in consideration of the news that he sends me. It is certainly another circumstance in my favor that the scandal at Thorpe Ambrose is not to be allowed to reach Miss Milroy's ears. With her temper (if she did hear it) she might do something desperate in the way of claiming her lover, and might compromise me seriously. As for my own course with Armadale, it is easy enough. I shall quiet him by promising to write to Major Milroy; and I shall take the liberty, in my own private interests, of not keeping my word. 

"Nothing in the least suspicious has happened to-day. Whoever my enemies are, they have lost me, and between this and the time when I leave England they shall not find me again. I have been to the post-office, and have got the ticket for my luggage, inclosed to me in a letter from All Saints' Terrace, as I directed. The luggage itself I shall still leave at the cloak-room, until I see the way before me more clearly than I see it now. 

"August5 th.-- Two letters again from the hotel. Midwinter writes to remind me, in the prettiest possible manner, that he will have lived long enough in the parish by to-morrow to be able to get our marriage-license, and that he proposes applying for it in the usual way at Doctors' Commons. Now, if I am ever to say it, is the time to say No. I can't say No. There is the plain truth -- and there is an end of it! 

"Armadale's letter is a letter of farewell. He thanks me for my kindness in consenting to write to the major, and bids me good-by, till we meet again at Naples. He has learned from his friend that there are private reasons which will oblige him to forbid himself the pleasure of being present at our marriage. Under these circumstances, there is nothing to keep him in London. He has made all his business arrangements; he goes to Somersetshire by to-night's train; and, after staying some time with Mr. Brock, he will sail for the Mediterranean from the Bristol Channel (in spite of Midwinter's objections) in his own yacht. 

"The letter incloses a jeweler's box, with a ring in it -- Armadale's present to me on my marriage. It is a ruby -- but rather a small one, and set in the worst possible taste. He would have given Miss Milroy a ring worth ten times the money, if it had been _her_ marriage present. There is no more hateful creature, in my opinion, than a miserly young man. I wonder whether his trumpery little yacht will drown him? 

"I am so excited and fluttered, I hardly know what I am writing. Not that I shrink from what is coming -- I only feel as if I was being hurried on faster than I quite like to go. At this rate, if nothing happens, Midwinter will have married me by the end of the week. And then --! 

"August6 th.-- If anything could startle me now, I should feel startled by the news that has reached me to-day. 

"On his return to the hotel this morning, after getting the marriage-license, Midwinter found a telegram waiting for him. It contained an urgent message from Armadale, announcing that Mr. Brock had had a relapse, and that all hope of his recovery was pronounced by the doctors to be at an end. By the dying man's own desire, Midwinter was summoned to take leave of him, and was entreated by Armadale not to lose a moment in starting for the rectory by the first train. 

"The hurried letter which tells me this tells me also that, by the time I receive it, Midwinter will be on his way to the West. He promises to write at greater length, after he has seen Mr. Brock, by to-night's post. 

"This news has an interest for me, which Midwinter little suspects. There is but one human creature, besides myself, who knows the secret of his birth and his name; and that one is the old man who now lies waiting for him at the point of death. What will they say to each other at the last moment? Will some chance word take them back to the time when I was in Mrs. Armadale's service at Madeira? Will they speak of Me? 

"August7 th.-- The promised letter has just reached me. No parting words have been exchanged between them: it was all over before Midwinter reached Somersetshire. Armadale met him at the rectory gate with the news that Mr. Brock was dead. 

"I try to struggle against it, but, coming after the strange complication of circumstances that has been closing round me for weeks past, there is something in this latest event of all that shakes my nerves. But one last chance of detection stood in my way when I opened my diary yesterday. When I open it to-day, that chance is removed by Mr. Brock's death. It means something; I wish I knew what. 

"The funeral is to be on Saturday morning. Midwinter will attend it as well as Armadale. But he proposes returning to London first; and he writes word that he will call to-night, in the hope of seeing me, on his way from the station to the hotel. Even if there was any risk in it, I should see him, as things are now. But there is no risk if he comes here from the station instead of coming from the hotel. 

"Five o'clock.-- I was not mistaken in believing that my nerves were all unstrung. Trifles that would not have cost me a second thought at other times weigh heavily on my mind now. 

"Two hours since, in despair of knowing how to get through the day, I bethought myself of the milliner who is making my summer dress. I had intended to go and try it on yesterday; but it slipped out of my memory in the excitement of hearing about Mr. Brock. So I went this afternoon, eager to do anything that might help me to get rid of myself. I have returned, feeling more uneasy and more depressed than I felt when I went out; for I have come back fearing that I may yet have reason to repent not having left my unfinished dress on the milliner's hands. 

"Nothing happened to me, this time, in the street. It was only in the trying-on room that my suspicions were roused; and there it certainly did cross my mind that the attempt to discover me, which I defeated at All Saints' Terrace, was not given up yet, and that some of the shop-women had been tampered with, if not the mistress herself. 

"Can I give myself anything in the shape of a reason for this impression? Let me think a little. 

"I certainly noticed two things which were out of the ordinary routine, under the circumstances. In the first place, there were twice as many women as were needed in the trying-on room. This looked suspicious; and yet I might have accounted for it in more ways than one. Is it not the slack time now? and don't I know by experience that I am the sort of woman about whom other women are always spitefully curious? I thought again, in the second place, that one of the assistants persisted rather oddly in keeping me turned in a particular direction, with my face toward the glazed and curtained door that led into the work-room. But, after all, she gave a reason when I asked for it. She said the light fell better on me that way; and, when I looked round, there was the window to prove her right. Still, these trifles produced such an effect on me, at the time, that I purposely found fault with the dress, so as to have an excuse for trying it on again, before I told them where I lived, and had it sent home. Pure fancy, I dare say. Pure fancy, perhaps, at the present moment. I don't care; I shall act on instinct (as they say), and give up the dress. In plainer words still, I won't go back. 

"Midnight.-- Midwinter came to see me as he promised. An hour has passed since we said good-night; and here I still sit, with my pen in my hand, thinking of him. No words of mine can describe what has passed between us. The end of it is all I can write in these pages; and the end of it is that he has shaken my resolution. For the first time since I saw the easy way to Armadale's life at Thorpe Ambrose, I feel as if the man whom I have doomed in my own thoughts had a chance of escaping me. 

"Is it my love for Midwinter that has altered me? Or is it _his_ love for _me_ that has taken possession not only of all I wish to give him, but of all I wish to keep from him as well? I feel as if I had lost myself -- lost myself, I mean, in _him_ -- all through the evening. He was in great agitation about what had happened in Somersetshire; and he made me feel as disheartened and as wretched about it as he did. Though he never confessed it in words, I know that Mr. Brock's death has startled him as an ill omen for our marriage -- I know it, because I feel Mr. Brock's death as an ill omen too. The superstition -- _his_ superstition -- took so strong a hold on me, that when we grew calmer and he spoke of time future -- when he told me that he must either break his engagement with his new employers or go abroad, as he is pledged to go, on Monday next -- I actually shrank at the thought of our marriage following close on Mr. Brock's funeral; I actually said to him, in the impulse of the moment, 'Go, and begin your new life alone! go, and leave me here to wait for happier times.' 

"He took me in his arms. He sighed, and kissed me with an angelic tenderness. He said -- oh, so softly and so sadly!-- I have no life now, apart from _you_.' As those words passed his lips, the thought seemed to rise in my mind like an echo, 'Why not live out all the days that are left to me, happy and harmless in a love like this!' I can't explain it -- I can't realize it. That was the thought in me at the time; and that is the thought in me still. I see my own hand while I write the words -- and I ask myself whether it is really the hand of Lydia Gwilt! 

"Armadale -- 

"No! I will never write, I will never think of Armadale again. 

"Yes! Let me write once more -- let me think once more of him, because it quiets me to know that he is going away, and that the sea will have parted us before I am married. His old home is home to him no longer, now that the loss of his mother has been followed by the loss of his best and earliest friend. When the funeral is over, he has decided to sail the same day for the foreign seas. We may, or we may not, meet at Naples. Shall I be an altered woman if we do? I wonder; I wonder! 

"August8 th.-- A line from Midwinter. He has gone back to Somersetshire to be in readiness for the funeral to-morrow; and he will return here (after bidding Armadale good-by) to-morrow evening. 

"The last forms and ceremonies preliminary to our marriage have been complied with. I am to be his wife on Monday next. The hour must not be later than half-past ten -- which will give us just time, when the service is over, to get from the church door to the railway, and to start on our journey to Naples the same day. 

"To-day -- Saturday -- Sunday! I am not afraid of the time; the time will pass. I am not afraid of myself, if I can only keep all thoughts but one out of my mind. I love him! Day and night, till Monday comes, I will think of nothing but that. I love him! 

"Four o'clock.-- Other thoughts are forced into my mind in spite of me. My suspicions of yesterday were no mere fancies; the milliner has been tampered with. My folly in going back to her house has led to my being traced here. I am absolutely certain that I never gave the woman my address; and yet my new gown was sent home to me at two o'clock to-day! 

"A man brought it with the bill, and a civil message, to say that, as I had not called at the appointed time to try it on again, the dress had been finished and sent to me. He caught me in the passage; I had no choice but to pay the bill, and dismiss him. Any other proceeding, as events have now turned out, would have been pure folly. The messenger (not the man who followed me in the street, but another spy sent to look at me, beyond all doubt) would have declared he knew nothing about it, if I had spoken to him. The milliner would tell me to my face, if I went to her, that I had given her my address. The one useful thing to do now is to set my wits to work in the interests of my own security, and to step out of the false position in which my own rashness has placed me -- if I can. 

"Seven o'clock.-- My spirits have risen again. I believe I am in a fair way of extricating myself already. 

"I have just come back from a long round in a cab. First, to the cloak-room of the Great Western, to get the luggage which I sent there from All Saints' Terrace. Next, to the cloak-room of the Southeastern, to leave my luggage (labeled in Midwinter's name), to wait for me till the starting of the tidal train on Monday. Next, to the General Post-office, to post a letter to Midwinter at the rectory, which he will receive to-morrow morning. Lastly, back again to this house -- from which I shall move no more till Monday comes. 

"My letter to Midwinter will, I have little doubt, lead to his seconding (quite innocently) the precautions that I am taking for my own safety. The shortness of the time at our disposal on Monday will oblige him to pay his bill at the hotel and to remove his luggage before the marriage ceremony takes place. All I ask him to do beyond this is to take the luggage himself to the Southeastern (so as to make any inquiries useless which may address themselves to the servants at the hotel)-- and, that done, to meet me at the church door, instead of calling for me here. The rest concerns nobody but myself. When Sunday night or Monday morning comes, it will be hard, indeed -- freed as I am now from all incumbrances -- if I can't give the people who are watching me the slip for the second time. 

"It seems needless enough to have written to Midwinter to-day, when he is coming back to me to-morrow night. But it was impossible to ask, what I have been obliged to ask of him, without making my false family circumstances once more the excuse; and having this to do -- I must own the truth -- I wrote to him because, after what I suffered on the last occasion, I can never again deceive him to his face. 

"August9 th.-- Two o'clock.-- I rose early this morning, more depressed in spirits than usual. The re-beginning of one's life, at the re-beginning of every day, has already been something weary and hopeless to me for years past. I dreamed, too, all through the night -- not of Midwinter and of my married life, as I had hoped to dream -- but of the wretched conspiracy to discover me, by which I have been driven from one place to another, like a hunted animal. Nothing in the shape of a new revelation enlightened me in my sleep. All I could guess dreaming was what I had guessed waking, that Mother Oldershaw is the enemy who is attacking me in the dark. 

"My restless night has, however, produced one satisfactory result. It has led to my winning the good graces of the servant here, and securing all the assistance she can give me when the time comes for making my escape. 

"The girl noticed this morning that I looked pale and anxious. I took her into my confidence, to the extent of telling her that I was privately engaged to be married, and that I had enemies who were trying to part me from my sweetheart. This instantly roused her sympathy, and a present of a ten-shilling piece for her kind services to me did the rest. In the intervals of her housework she has been with me nearly the whole morning; and I found out, among other things, that _her_ sweetheart is a private soldier in the Guards, and that she expects to see him to-morrow. I have got money enough left, little as it is, to turn the head of any Private in the British army; and, if the person appointed to watch me to-morrow is a man, I think it just possible that he may find his attention disagreeably diverted from Miss Gwilt in the course of the evening. 

"When Midwinter came here last from the railway, he came at half-past eight. How am I to get through the weary, weary hours between this and the evening? I think I shall darken my bedroom, and drink the blessing of oblivion from my bottle of Drops. 

"Eleven o'clock.-- We have parted for the last time before the day comes that makes us man and wife. 

"He has left me, as he left me before, with an absorbing subject of interest to think of in his absence. I noticed a change in him the moment he entered the room. When he told me of the funeral, and of his parting with Armadale on board the yacht, though he spoke with feelings deeply moved, he spoke with a mastery over himself which is new to me in my experience of him. It was the same when our talk turned next on our own hopes and prospects. He was plainly disappointed when he found that my family embarrassments would prevent our meeting to-morrow, and plainly uneasy at the prospect of leaving me to find my way by myself on Monday to the church. But there was a certain hopefulness and composure of manner underlying it all, which produced so strong an impression on me that I was obliged to notice it. 

"'You know what odd fancies take possession of me sometimes,' I said. 'Shall I tell you the fancy that has taken possession of me now? I can't help thinking that something has happened since we last saw each other which you have not told me yet. 

" Something _has_ happened, ' he answered. 'And it is something which you ought to know.' 

"With those words he took out his pocket-book, and produced two written papers from it. One he looked at and put back. The other he placed on the table. 

"'Before I tell you what this is, and how it came into my possession,' he said, 'I must own something that I have concealed from you. It is no more serious confession than the confession of my own weakness.' 

"He then acknowledged to me that the renewal of his friendship with Armadale had been clouded, through the whole period of their intercourse in London, by his own superstitious misgivings. He had obeyed the summons which called him to the rector's bedside, with the firm intention of confiding his previsions of coming trouble to Mr. Brock; and he had been doubly confirmed in his superstition when he found that Death had entered the house before him, and had parted them, in this world, forever. More than this, he had traveled back to be present at the funeral, with a secret sense of relief at the prospect of being parted from Armadale, and with a secret resolution to make the after-meeting agreed on between us three at Naples a meeting that should never take place. With that purpose in his heart, he had gone up alone to the room prepared for him on his arrival at the rectory, and had opened a letter which he found waiting for him on the table. The letter had only that day been discovered -- dropped and lost -- under the bed on which Mr. Brock had died. It was in the rector's handwriting throughout; and the person to whom it was addressed was Midwinter himself. 

"Having told me this, nearly in the words in which I have written it, he gave me the written paper that lay on the table between us. 

" 'Read it,' he said; 'and you will not need to be told that my mind is at peace again, and that I took Allan's hand at parting with a heart that was worthier of Allan's love.' 

"I read the letter. There was no superstition to be conquered in _my_ mind; there were no old feelings of gratitude toward Armadale to be roused in _my_ heart; and yet, the effect which the letter had had on Midwinter was, I firmly believe, more than matched by the effect that the letter now produced on me. 

"It was vain to ask him to leave it, and to let me read it again (as I wished) when I was left by myself. He is determined to keep it side by side with that other paper which I had seen him take out of his pocket-book, and which contains the written narrative of Armadale's Dream. All I could do was to ask his leave to copy it; and this he granted readily. I wrote the copy in his presence; and I now place it here in my diary, to mark a day which is one of the memorable days in my life. 

"Boscombe Rectory, August2 d. 

"MY DEAR MIDWINTER -- For the first time since the beginning of my illness, I found strength enough yesterday to look over my letters. One among them is a letter from Allan, which has been lying unopened on my table for ten days past. He writes to me in great distress, to say that there has been dissension between you, and that you have left him. If you still remember what passed between us, when you first opened your heart to me in the Isle of Man, you will be at no loss to understand how I have thought over this miserable news, through the night that has now passed, and you will not be surprised to hear that I have roused myself this morning to make the effort of writing to you. 

"I want no explanation of the circumstances which have parted you from your friend. If my estimate of your character is not founded on an entire delusion, the one influence which can have led to your estrangement from Allan is the influence of that evil spirit of Superstition which I have once already cast out of your heart -- which I will once again conquer, please God, if I have strength enough to make my pen speak my mind to you in this letter. 

"It is no part of my design to combat the belief which I know you to hold, that mortal creatures may be the objects of supernatural intervention in their pilgrimage through this world. Speaking as a reasonable man, I own that I cannot prove you to be wrong. Speaking as a believer in the Bible, I am bound to go further, and to admit that you possess a higher than any human warrant for the faith that is in you. The one object which I have it at heart to attain is to induce you to free yourself from the paralyzing fatalism of the heathen and the savage, and to look at the mysteries that perplex, and the portents that daunt you, from the Christian's point of view. If I can succeed in this, I shall clear your mind of the ghastly doubts that now oppress it, and I shall reunite you to your friend, never to be parted from him again. 

"I have no means of seeing and questioning you. I can only send this letter to Allan to be forwarded, if he knows, or can discover, your present address. Placed in this position toward you, I am bound to assume all that _can_ be assumed in your favor. I will take it for granted that something has happened to you or to Allan which to your mind has not only confirmed the fatalist conviction in which your father died, but has added a new and terrible meaning to the warning which he sent you in his death-bed letter. 

"On this common ground I meet you. On this common ground I appeal to your higher nature and your better sense. 

"Preserve your present conviction that the events which have happened (be they what they may) are not to be reconciled with ordinary mortal coincidences and ordinary mortal laws; and view your own position by the best and clearest light that your superstition can throw on it. What are you? You are a helpless instrument in the hands of Fate. You are doomed, beyond all human capacity of resistance, to bring misery and destruction blindfold on a man to whom you have harmlessly and gratefully united yourself in the bonds of a brother's love. All that is morally firmest in your will and morally purest in your aspirations avails nothing against the hereditary impulsion of you toward evil, caused by a crime which your father committed before you were born. In what does that belief end? It ends in the darkness in which you are now lost; in the self-contradictions in which you are now bewildered; in the stubborn despair by which a man profanes his own soul, and lowers himself to the level of the brutes that perish. 

"Look up, my poor suffering brother -- look up, my hardly tried, my well-loved friend, higher than this! Meet the doubts that now assail you from the blessed vantage-ground of Christian courage and Christian hope; and your heart will turn again to Allan, and your mind will be at peace. Happen what may, God is all-merciful, God is all-wise: natural or supernatural, it happens through Him. The mystery of Evil that perplexes our feeble minds, the sorrow and the suffering that torture us in this little life, leave the one great truth unshaken that the destiny of man is in the hands of his Creator, and that God's blessed Son died to make us worthier of it. Nothing that is done in unquestioning submission to the wisdom of the Almighty is done wrong. No evil exists out of which, in obedience to his laws, Good may not come. Be true to what Christ tells you is true. Encourage in yourself, be the circumstances what they may, all that is loving, all that is grateful, all that is patient, all that is forgiving, toward your fellow-men. And humbly and trustfully leave the rest to the God who made you, and to the Saviour who loved you better than his own life. 

"This is the faith in which I have lived, by the Divine help and mercy, from my youth upward. I ask you earnestly, I ask you confidently, to make it your faith, too. It is the mainspring of all the good I have ever done, of all the happiness I have ever known; it lightens my darkness, it sustains my hope; it comforts and quiets me, lying here, to live or die, I know not which. Let it sustain, comfort, and enlighten you. It will help you in your sorest need, as it has helped me in mine. It will show you another purpose in the events which brought you and Allan together than the purpose which your guilty father foresaw. Strange things, I do not deny it, have happened to you already. Stranger things still may happen before long, which I may not live to see. Remember, if that time comes, that I died firmly disbelieving in your influence over Allan being other than an influence for good. The great sacrifice of the Atonement -- I say it reverently -- has its mortal reflections, even in this world. If danger ever threatens Allan, you, whose father took his father's life -- YOU, and no other, may be the man whom the providence of God has appointed to save him. 

"Come to me if I live. Go back to the friend who loves you, whether I live or die. 

"Yours affectionately to the last, 

"DECIMUS BROCK
You, and no other, may be the man whom the providence of God has appointed to save him!' "Those are the words which have shaken me to the soul. Those are the words which make me feel as if the dead man had left his grave, and had put his hand on the place in my heart where my terrible secret lies hidden from every living creature but myself. One part of the letter has come true already. The danger that it foresees threatens Armadale at this moment -- and threatens him from Me! 

"If the favoring circumstances which have driven me thus far drive me on to the end, and if that old man's last earthly conviction is prophetic of the truth, Armadale will escape me, do what I may. And Midwinter will be the victim who is sacrificed to save his life. 

"It is horrible! it is impossible! it shall never be! At the thinking of it only, my hand trembles and my heart sinks. I bless the trembling that unnerves me! I bless the sinking that turns me faint! I bless those words in the letter which have revived the relenting thoughts that first came to me two days since! Is it hard, now that events are taking me, smoothly and safely, nearer and nearer to the End -- is it hard to conquer the temptation to go on? No! If there is only a chance of harm coming to Midwinter, the dread of that chance is enough to decide me -- enough to strengthen me to conquer the temptation, for his sake. I have never loved him yet, never, never, never as I love him now! 

"Sunday, August10 th.-- The eve of my wedding-day! I close and lock this book, never to write in it, never to open it again. 

"I have won the great victory; I have trampled my own wickedness under foot. I am innocent; I am happy again. My love! my angel! when to-morrow gives me to you, I will not have a thought in my heart which is not _your_ thought, as well as mine
My son is coming to breakfast. My son is very particular. I want everything of the best -- hot things and cold things -- and tea and coffee -- and all the rest of it, waiter; all the rest of it
All right, sir; you may leave it to me
Well done, old gentleman
You're ready to be married to Miss Gwilt at a moment's notice
You have such good spirits, Jemmy
You always had good spirits, my dear, from a child. Come and sit down; I've ordered you a nice breakfast. Everything of the best! everything of the best! What a relief it is to see you! Oh, dear, dear, what a relief it is to see you
Tell me about her
I shall die, Jemmy, if I wait for it any longer. Tell me! tell me! tell me
One thing at a time
We'll try the breakfast first, and come to the lady afterward! Gently does it, old gentleman -- gently does it
Gently does it, old gentleman
Gently does it
Don't be angry with me, Jemmy
Try, if you can, to think how anxious I must be. I got your letter so long ago as yesterday morning. I have had to travel all the way from Thorpe Ambrose -- I have had to get through the dreadful long evening and the dreadful long night -- with your letter telling me that you had found out who she is, and telling me nothing more. Suspense is very hard to bear, Jemmy, when you come to my age. What was it prevented you, my dear, from coming to me when I got here yesterday evening
A little dinner at Richmond
Give me some tea
I'm very sorry; I can't help trembling when I'm anxious
I'm afraid you bear me malice, Jemmy, for what happened when I was last in town. I own I was obstinate and unreasonable about going back to Thorpe Ambrose. I'm more sensible now. You were quite right in taking it all on yourself, as soon as I showed you the veiled lady when we saw her come out of the hotel; and you were quite right to send me back the same day to my business in the steward's office at the Great House
If you won't tell me anything else just yet
will you tell me how you found her out. Do, Jemmy, do
I'll tell you that
The reckoning up of Miss Gwilt has cost more money and taken more time than I expected; and the sooner we come to a settlement about it, the sooner we shall get to what you want to know
A thousand thanks
Some of it is for the people at our office, and the balance is for myself. One of the few stupid things, my dear sir, that I have done in the course of my life was to write you word, when you first consulted me, that you might have my services gratis. As you see, I hasten to repair the error. An hour or two at odd times I was ready enough to give you. But this business has taken days, and has got in the way of other jobs. I told you I couldn't be out of pocket by you -- I put it in my letter, as plain as words could say it
Yes, yes, Jemmy. I don't complain, my dear, I don't complain. Never mind the money -- tell me how you found her out
Besides
I have given you the benefit of my experience; I've done it cheap. It would have cost double the money if another man had taken this in hand. Another man would have kept a watch on Mr. Armadale as well as Miss Gwilt. I have saved you that expense. You are certain that Mr. Armadale is bent on marrying her. Very good. In that case, while we have our eye on _her_, we have, for all useful purposes, got our eye on _him_. Know where the lady is, and you know that the gentleman can't be far off
Quite true, Jemmy. But how was it Miss Gwilt came to give you so much trouble
She's a devilish clever woman
that's how it was. She gave us the slip at a milliner's shop. We made it all right with the milliner, and speculated on the chance of her coming back to try on a gown she had ordered. The cleverest women lose the use of their wits in nine cases out of ten where there's a new dress in the case, and even Miss Gwilt was rash enough to go back. That was all we wanted. One of the women from our office helped to try on her new gown, and put her in the right position to be seen by one of our men behind the door. He instantly suspected who she was, on the strength of what he had been told of her; for she's a famous woman in her way. Of course, we didn't trust to that. We traced her to her new address; and we got a man from Scotland Yard, who was certain to know her, if our own man's idea was the right one. The man from Scotland Yard turned milliner's lad for the occasion, and took her gown home. He saw her in the passage, and identified her in an instant. You're in luck, I can tell you. Miss Gwilt's a public character. If we had had a less notorious woman to deal with, she might have cost us weeks of inquiry, and you might have had to pay hundreds of pounds. A day did it in Miss Gwilt's case; and another day put the whole story of her life, in black and white, into my hand. There it is at the present moment, old gentleman, in my black bag
I haven't done breakfast yet
Gently does it, my dear sir -- gently does it
I can't wait
It's past nine! It's a fortnight to-day since she went to London with Mr. Armadale! She may be married to him in a fortnight! She may be married to him this morning! I can't wait! I can't wait
There's no knowing what you can do till you try
Try, and you'll find you can wait. What has become of your curiosity
Why don't you ask me what I mean by calling Miss Gwilt a public character? Why don't you wonder how I came to lay my hand on the story of her life, in black and white? If you'll sit down again, I'll tell you. If you won't, I shall confine myself to my breakfast
I wish you were not so fond of your joke, Jemmy
I wish, my dear, you were not quite so fond of your joke
Joke
It would be serious enough in some people's eyes, I can tell you. Miss Gwilt has been tried for her life; and the papers in that black bag are the lawyer's instructions for the Defense. Do you call that a joke
She's been tried for her life
She's been tried for her life
Aha-ha-ha! Something to frighten Mr. Armadale in _that_
Don't excite yourself
No
No, no -- no excitement, as you say -- I can wait now, Jemmy; I can wait now
Something to frighten Mr. Armadale in _that_
How will you have it
Long or short? I have got her whole life here. The counsel who defended her at the trial was instructed to hammer hard at the sympathies of the jury: he went head over ears into the miseries of her past career, and shocked everybody in court in the most workman-like manner. Shall I take the same line? Do you want to know all about her, from the time when she was in short frocks and frilled trousers? or do you prefer getting on at once to her first appearance as a prisoner in the dock
I want to know all about her
The worst, and the best -- the worst particularly. Don't spare my feelings, Jemmy -- whatever you do, don't spare my feelings! Can't I look at the papers myself
No, you can't. They would be all Greek and Hebrew to you. Thank your stars that you have got a sharp son, who can take the pith out of these papers, and give it a smack of the right flavor in serving it up. There are not ten men in England who could tell you this woman's story as I can tell it. It's a gift, old gentleman, of the sort that is given to very few people -- and it lodges here
Miss Gwilt's story begins
in the market-place at Thorpe Ambrose. One day, something like a quarter of a century ago, a traveling quack doctor, who dealt in perfumery as well as medicines, came to the town with his cart, and exhibited, as a living example of the excellence of his washes and hair-oils and so on, a pretty little girl, with a beautiful complexion and wonderful hair. His name was Oldershaw. He had a wife, who helped him in the perfumery part of his business, and who carried it on by herself after his death. She has risen in the world of late years; and she is identical with that sly old lady who employed me professionally a short time since. As for the pretty little girl, you know who she was as well as I do. While the quack was haranguing the mob and showing them the child's hair, a young lady, driving through the marketplace, stopped her carriage to hear what it was all about, saw the little girl, and took a violent fancy to her on the spot. The young lady was the daughter of Mr. Blanchard, of Thorpe Ambrose. She went home, and interested her father in the fate of the innocent little victim of the quack doctor. The same evening, the Oldershaws were sent for to the great house and were questioned. They declared themselves to be her uncle and aunt -- a lie, of course!-- and they were quite willing to let her attend the village school, while they stayed at Thorpe Ambrose, when the proposal was made to them. The new arrangement was carried out the next day. And the day after that, the Oldershaws had disappeared, and had left the little girl on the squire's hands! She evidently hadn't answered as they expected in the capacity of an advertisement, and that was the way they took of providing for her for life. There is the first act of the play for you! Clear enough, so far, isn't it
Clear enough, Jemmy, to clever people. But I'm old and slow. I don't understand one thing. Whose child was she
A very sensible question. Sorry to inform you that nobody can answer it -- Miss Gwilt herself included. These Instructions that I'm refering to are founded, of course, on her own statements, sifted by her attorney. All she could remember, on being questioned, was that she was beaten and half starved, somewhere in the country, by a woman who took in children at nurse. The woman had a card with her, stating that her name was Lydia Gwilt, and got a yearly allowance for taking care of her (paid through a lawyer) till she was eight years old. At that time, the allowance stopped; the lawyer had no explanation to offer; nobody came to look after her; nobody wrote. The Oldershaws saw her, and thought she might answer to exhibit; and the woman parted with her for a trifle to the Oldershaws; and the Oldershaws parted with her for good and all to the Blanchards. That's the story of her birth, parentage, and education! She may be the daughter of a duke, or the daughter of a costermonger. The circumstances may be highly romantic, or utterly commonplace. Fancy anything you like -- there's nothing to stop you. When you've had your fancy out, say the word, and I'll turn over the leaves and go on
Please to go on, Jemmy -- please to go on
The next glimpse of Miss Gwilt
is a glimpse at a family mystery. The deserted child was in luck's way at last. She had taken the fancy of an amiable young lady with a rich father, and she was petted and made much of at the great house, in the character of Miss Blanchard's last new plaything. Not long afterward Mr. Blanchard and his daughter went abroad, and took the girl with them in the capacity of Miss Blanchard's little maid. When they came back, the daughter had married, and become a widow, in the interval; and the pretty little maid, instead of returning with them to Thorpe Ambrose, turns up suddenly, all alone, as a pupil at a school in France. There she was, at a first-rate establishment, with her maintenance and education secured until she married and settled in life, on this understanding -- that she never returned to England. Those were all the particulars she could be prevailed on to give the lawyer who drew up these instructions. She declined to say what had happened abroad; she declined even, after all the years that had passed, to mention her mistress's married name. It's quite clear, of course, that she was in possession of some family secret; and that the Blanchards paid for her schooling on the Continent to keep her out of the way. And it's equally plain that she would never have kept her secret as she did if she had not seen her way to trading on it for her own advantage at some future time. A clever woman, as I've told you already! A devilish clever woman, who hasn't been knocked about in the world, and seen the ups and downs of life abroad and at home, for nothing
Yes, yes, Jemmy; quite true. How long did she stop, please, at the school in France
She stopped at the French school
till she was seventeen. At that time something happened at the school which I find mildly described in these papers as 'something unpleasant.' The plain fact was that the music-master attached to the establishment fell in love with Miss Gwilt. He was a respectable middle-aged man, with a wife and family; and, finding the circumstances entirely hopeless, he took a pistol, and, rashly assuming that he had brains in his head, tried to blow them out. The doctor saved his life, but not his reason; he ended, where he had better have begun, in an asylum. Miss Gwilt's beauty having been at the bottom of the scandal, it was, of course, impossible -- though she was proved to have been otherwise quite blameless in the matter -- for her to remain at the school after what had happened. Her 'friends' (the Blanchards) were communicated with. And her friends transferred her to another school; at Brussels, this time -- What are you sighing about? What's wrong now
I can't help feeling a little for the poor music-master, Jemmy. Go on
According to her own account of it, dad, Miss Gwilt seems to have felt for him too. She took a serious turn; and was 'converted' (as they call it) by the lady who had charge of her in the interval before she went to Brussels. The priest at the Belgium school appears to have been a man of some discretion, and to have seen that the girl's sensibilities were getting into a dangerously excited state. Before he could quiet her down, he fell ill, and was succeeded by another priest, who was a fanatic. You will understand the sort of interest he took in the girl, and the way in which he worked on her feelings, when I tell you that she announced it as her decision, after having been nearly two years at the school, to end her days in a convent! You may well stare! Miss Gwilt, in the character of a Nun, is the sort of female phenomenon you don't often set eyes on
Did she go into the convent
Did they let her go in, so friendless and so young, with nobody to advise her for the best
The Blanchards were consulted, as a matter of form
_They_ had no objection to her shutting herself up in a convent, as you may well imagine. The pleasantest letter they ever had from her, I'll answer for it, was the letter in which she solemnly took leave of them in this world forever. The people at the convent were as careful as usual not to commit themselves. Their rules wouldn't allow her to take the veil till she had tried the life for a year first, and then, if she had any doubt, for another year after that. She tried the life for the first year, accordingly, and doubted. She tried it for the second year, and was wise enough, by that time, to give it up without further hesitation. Her position was rather an awkward one when she found herself at liberty again. The sisters at the convent had lost their interest in her; the mistress at the school declined to take her back as teacher, on the ground that she was too nice-looking for the place; the priest considered her to be possessed by the devil. There was nothing for it but to write to the Blanchards again, and ask them to start her in life as a teacher of music on her own account. She wrote to her former mistress accordingly. Her former mistress had evidently doubted the genuineness of the girl's resolution to be a nun, and had seized the opportunity offered by her entry into the convent to cut off all further communication between her ex-waiting-maid and herself. Miss Gwilt's letter was returned by the post-office. She caused inquiries to be made; and found that Mr. Blanchard was dead, and that his daughter had left the great house for some place of retirement unknown. The next thing she did, upon this, was to write to the heir in possession of the estate. The letter was answered by his solicitors, who were instructed to put the law in force at the first attempt she made to extort money from any member of the family at Thorpe Ambrose. The last chance was to get at the address of her mistress's place of retirement. The family bankers, to whom she wrote, wrote back to say that they were instructed not to give the lady's address to any one applying for it, without being previously empowered to do so by the lady herself. That last letter settled the question -- Miss Gwilt could do nothing more. With money at her command, she might have gone to England and made the Blanchards think twice before they carried things with too high a hand. Not having a half-penny at command, she was helpless. Without money and without friends, you may wonder how she supported herself while the correspondence was going on. She supported herself by playing the piano-forte at a low concert-room in Brussels. The men laid siege to her, of course, in all directions; but they found her insensible as adamant. One of these rejected gentlemen was a Russian; and he was the means of making her acquainted with a countrywoman of his, whose name is unpronounceable by English lips. Let us give her her title, and call her the baroness. The two women liked each other at their first introduction; and a new scene opened in Miss Gwilt's life. She became reader and companion to the baroness. Everything was right, everything was smooth on the surface. Everything was rotten and everything was wrong under it
In what way, Jemmy? Please to wait a little, and tell me in what way
In this way. The baroness was fond of traveling, and she had a select set of friends about her who were quite of her way of thinking. They went from one city on the Continent to another, and were such charming people that they picked up acquaintances everywhere. The acquaintances were invited to the baroness's receptions, and card-tables were invariably a part of the baroness's furniture. Do you see it now? or must I tell you, in the strictest confidence, that cards were not considered sinful on these festive occasions, and that the luck, at the end of the evening, turned out to be almost invariably on the side of the baroness and her friends? Swindlers, all of them; and there isn't a doubt on my mind, whatever there may be on yours, that Miss Gwilt's manners and appearance made her a valuable member of the society in the capacity of a decoy. Her own statement is that she was innocent of all knowledge of what really went on; that she was quite ignorant of card-playing; that she hadn't such a thing as a respectable friend to turn to in the world; and that she honestly liked the baroness, for the simple reason that the baroness was a hearty good friend to her from first to last. Believe that or not, as you please. For five years she traveled about all over the Continent with these card-sharpers in high life, and she might have been among them at this moment, for anything I know to the contrary, if the baroness had not caught a Tartar at Naples, in the shape of a rich traveling Englishman, named Waldron. Aha! that name startles you, does it? You've read the Trial of the famous Mrs. Waldron, like the rest of the world? And you know who Miss Gwilt is now, without my telling you
Go on, Jemmy
I am one of the few people who didn't read the trial; I only heard of it
You always were, and you always will be, behind the age
When we come to the trial, I can tell you as much about it as you need know. In the meantime, we must go back to the baroness and Mr. Waldron. For a certain number of nights the Englishman let the card-sharpers have it all their own way; in other words, he paid for the privilege of making himself agreeable to Miss Gwilt. When he thought he had produced the necessary impression on her, he exposed the whole confederacy without mercy. The police interfered; the baroness found herself in prison; and Miss Gwilt was put between the two alternatives of accepting Mr. Waldron's protection or being thrown on the world again. She was amazingly virtuous, or amazingly clever, which you please. To Mr. Waldron's astonishment, she told him that she could face the prospect of being thrown on the world; and that he must address her honorably or leave her forever. The end of it was what the end always is, where the man is infatuated and the woman is determined. To the disgust of his family and friends, Mr. Waldron made a virtue of necessity, and married her
How old was he
He was about old enough, daddy, to be your son, and rich enough to have burst that precious pocket-book of yours with thousand-pound notes! Don't hang your head. It wasn't a happy marriage, though he _was_ so young and so rich. They lived abroad, and got on well enough at first. He made a new will, of course, as soon as he was married, and provided handsomely for his wife, under the tender pressure of the honey-moon. But women wear out, like other things, with time; and one fine morning Mr. Waldron woke up with a doubt in his mind whether he had not acted like a fool. He was an ill-tempered man; he was discontented with himself; and of course he made his wife feel it. Having begun by quarreling with her, he got on to suspecting her, and became savagely jealous of every male creature who entered the house. They had no incumbrances in the shape of children, and they moved from one place to another, just as his jealousy inclined him, till they moved back to England at last, after having been married close on four years. He had a lonely old house of his own among the Yorkshire moors, and there he shut his wife and himself up from every living creature, except his servants and his dogs. Only one result could come, of course, of treating a high-spirited young woman in that way. It may be her fate, or it may be chance; but, whenever a woman is desperate, there is sure to be a man handy to take advantage of it. The man in this case was rather a 'dark horse,' as they say on the turf. He was a certain Captain Manuel, a native of Cuba, and (according to his own account) an ex-officer in the Spanish navy. He had met Mr. Waldron's beautiful wife on the journey back to England; had contrived to speak to her in spite of her husband's jealousy; and had followed her to her place of imprisonment in Mr. Waldron's house on the moors. The captain is described as a clever, determined fellow -- of the daring piratical sort -- with the dash of mystery about him that women like
She's not the same as other women
Did she
Did she like the captain
According to her own account of it, she adored him. At the same time her conduct (as represented by herself) was perfectly innocent. Considering how carefully her husband watched her, the statement (incredible as it appears) is probably true. For six weeks or so they confined themselves to corresponding privately, the Cuban captain (who spoke and wrote English perfectly) having contrived to make a go-between of one of the female servants in the Yorkshire house. How it might have ended we needn't trouble ourselves to inquire -- Mr. Waldron himself brought matters to a crisis. Whether he got wind of the clandestine correspondence or not, doesn't appear. But this is certain, that he came home from a ride one day in a fiercer temper than usual; that his wife showed him a sample of that high spirit of hers which he had never yet been able to break; and that it ended in his striking her across the face with his riding-whip. Ungentlemanly conduct, I am afraid we must admit; but, to all outward appearance, the riding-whip produced the most astonishing results. From that moment the lady submitted as she had never submitted before. For a fortnight afterward he did what he liked, and she never thwarted him; he said what he liked, and she never uttered a word of protest. Some men might have suspected this sudden reformation of hiding something dangerous under the surface. Whether Mr. Waldron looked at it in that light, I can't tell you. All that is known is that, before the mark of the whip was off his wife's face, he fell ill, and that in two days afterward he was a dead man. What do you say to that
I say he deserved it
The doctor who attended the dying man was not of your way of thinking
He called in two other medical men, and they all three refused to certify the death. The usual legal investigation followed. The evidence of the doctors and the evidence of the servants pointed irresistibly in one and the same direction; and Mrs. Waldron was committed for trial, on the charge of murdering her husband by poison. A solicitor in first-rate criminal practice was sent for from London to get up the prisoner's defense, and these 'Instructions' took their form and shape accordingly.-- What's the matter? What do you want now
I want to look at them
I want to see what they say about the captain from Cuba. He was at the bottom of it, Jemmy -- I'll swear he was at the bottom of it
Nobody doubted that who was in the secret of the case at the time
But nobody could prove it. Sit down again, dad, and compose yourself. There's nothing here about Captain Manuel but the lawyer's private suspicions of him, for the counsel to act on or not, at the counsel's discretion. From first to last she persisted in screening the captain. At the outset of the business she volunteered two statements to the lawyer -- both of which he suspected to be false. In the first place she declared that she was innocent of the crime. He wasn't surprised, of course, so far; his clients were, as a general rule, in the habit of deceiving him in that way. In the second place, while admitting her private correspondence with the Cuban captain, she declared that the letters on both sides related solely to a proposed elopement, to which her husband's barbarous treatment had induced her to consent. The lawyer naturally asked to see the letters. 'He has burned all my letters, and I have burned all his,' was the only answer he got. It was quite possible that Captain Manuel might have burned _her_ letters when he heard there was a coroner's inquest in the house. But it was in her solicitor's experience (as it is in my experience too) that, when a woman is fond of a man, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, risk or no risk, she keeps his letters. Having his suspicions roused in this way, the lawyer privately made some inquiries about the foreign captain, and found that he was as short of money as a foreign captain could be. At the same time, he put some questions to his client about her expectations from her deceased husband. She answered, in high indignation, that a will had been found among her husband's papers, privately executed only a few days before his death, and leaving her no more, out of all his immense fortune, than five thousand pounds. 'Was there an older will, then,' says the lawyer, 'which the new will revoked?' Yes, there was; a will that he had given into her own possession -- a will made when they were first married. 'Leaving his widow well provided for?' Leaving her just ten times as much as the second will left her. 'Had she ever mentioned that first will, now revoked, to Captain Manuel?' She saw the trap set for her, and said, 'No, never!' without an instant's hesitation. That reply confirmed the lawyer's suspicions. He tried to frighten her by declaring that her life might pay the forfeit of her deceiving him in this matter. With the usual obstinacy of women, she remained just as immovable as ever. The captain, on his side, behaved in the most exemplary manner. He confessed to planning the elopement; he declared that he had burned all the lady's letters as they reached him, out of regard for her reputation; he remained in the neighborhood; and he volunteered to attend before the magistrates. Nothing was discovered that could legally connect him with the crime, or that could put him into court on the day of the trial, in any other capacity than the capacity of a witness. I don't believe myself that there's any moral doubt (as they call it) that Manuel knew of the will which left her mistress of fifty thousand pounds; and that he was ready and willing, in virtue of that circumstance, to marry her on Mr. Waldron's death. If anybody tempted her to effect her own release from her husband by making herself a widow, the captain must have been the man. And unless she contrived, guarded and watched as she was, to get the poison for herself, the poison must have come to her in one of the captain's letters
I don't believe she used it, if it did come to her
I believe it was the captain himself who poisoned her husband
Here is one of the published Reports of the Trial
which you can read at your leisure, if you like. We needn't waste time now by going into details. I have told you already how cleverly her counsel paved his way for treating the charge of murder as the crowning calamity of the many that had already fallen on an innocent woman. The two legal points relied on for the defense (after this preliminary flourish) were: First, that there was no evidence to connect her with the possession of poison; and, secondly, that the medical witnesses, while positively declaring that her husband had died by poison, differed in their conclusions as to the particular drug that had killed him. Both good points, and both well worked; but the evidence on the other side bore down everything before it. The prisoner was proved to have had no less than three excellent reasons for killing her husband. He had treated her with almost unexampled barbarity; he had left her in a will (unrevoked so far as she knew) mistress of a fortune on his death; and she was, by her own confession, contemplating an elopement with another man. Having set forth these motives, the prosecution next showed by evidence, which was never once shaken on any single point, that the one person in the house who could by any human possibility have administered the poison was the prisoner at the bar. What could the judge and jury do, with such evidence before them as this? The verdict was Guilty, as a matter of course; and the judge declared that he agreed with it. The female part of the audience was in hysterics; and the male part was not much better. The judge sobbed, and the bar shuddered. She was sentenced to death in such a scene as had never been previously witnessed in an English court of justice. And she is alive and hearty at the present moment; free to do any mischief she pleases, and to poison, at her own entire convenience, any man, woman, or child that happens to stand in her way. A most interesting woman! Keep on good terms with her, my dear sir, whatever you do, for the Law has said to her in the plainest possible English, 'My charming friend, I have no terrors for _you_
How was she pardoned
They told me at the time, but I have forgotten. Was it the Home Secretary? If it was, I respect the Home Secretary! I say the Home Secretary was deserving of his place
Quite right, old gentleman
The Home Secretary was the obedient humble servant of an enlightened Free Press, and he _was_ deserving of his place. Is it possible you don't know how she cheated the gallows? If you don't, I must tell you. On the evening of the trial, two or three of the young buccaneers of literature went down to two or three newspaper offices, and wrote two or three heart-rending leading articles on the subject of the proceedings in court. The next morning the public caught light like tinder; and the prisoner was tried over again, before an amateur court of justice, in the columns of the newspapers. All the people who had no personal experience whatever on the subject seized their pens, and rushed (by kind permission of the editor) into print. Doctors who had _not_ attended the sick man, and who had _not_ been present at the examination of the body, declared by dozens that he had died a natural death. Barristers without business, who had _not_ heard the evidence, attacked the jury who had heard it, and judged the judge, who had sat on the bench before some of them were born. The general public followed the lead of the barristers and the doctors, and the young buccaneers who had set the thing going. Here was the law that they all paid to protect them actually doing its duty in dreadful earnest! Shocking! shocking! The British Public rose to protest as one man against the working of its own machinery; and the Home Secretary, in a state of distraction, went to the judge. The judge held firm. He had said it was the right verdict at the time, and he said so still. 'But suppose,' says the Home Secretary, 'that the prosecution had tried some other way of proving her guilty at the trial than the way they did try, what would you and the jury have done then?' Of course it was quite impossible for the judge to say. This comforted the Home Secretary, to begin with. And, when he got the judge's consent, after that, to having the conflict of medical evidence submitted to one great doctor; and when the one great doctor took the merciful view, after expressly stating, in the first instance, that he knew nothing practically of the merits of the case, the Home Secretary was perfectly satisfied. The prisoner's death-warrant went into the waste-paper basket; the verdict of the law was reversed by general acclamation; and the verdict of the newspapers carried the day. But the best of it is to come. You know what happened when the people found themselves with the pet object of their sympathy suddenly cast loose on their hands? A general impression prevailed directly that she was not quite innocent enough, after all, to be let out of prison then and there! Punish her a little -- that was the state of the popular feeling -- punish her a little, Mr. Home Secretary, on general moral grounds. A small course of gentle legal medicine, if you love us, and then we shall feel perfectly easy on the subject to the end of our days
Don't joke about it
Don't, don't, don't, Jemmy! Did they try her again? They couldn't! They dursn't! Nobody can be tried twice over for the same offense
Pooh! pooh! she could be tried a second time for a second offense
and tried she was. Luckily for the pacification of the public mind, she had rushed headlong into redressing her own grievances (as women will), when she discovered that her husband had cut her down from a legacy of fifty thousand pounds to a legacy of five thousand by a stroke of his pen. The day before the inquest a locked drawer in Mr. Waldron's dressing-room table, which contained some valuable jewelry, was discovered to have been opened and emptied; and when the prisoner was committed by the magistrates, the precious stones were found torn out of their settings and sewed up in her stays. The lady considered it a case of justifiable self-compensation. The law declared it to be a robbery committed on the executors of the dead man. The lighter offense -- which had been passed over when such a charge as murder was brought against her -- was just the thing to revive, to save appearances in the eyes of the public. They had stopped the course of justice, in the case of the prisoner, at one trial; and now all they wanted was to set the course of justice going again, in the case of the prisoner, at another! She was arraigned for the robbery, after having been pardoned for the murder. And, what is more, if her beauty and her misfortunes hadn't made a strong impression on her lawyer, she would not only have had to stand another trial, but would have had even the five thousand pounds, to which she was entitled by the second will, taken away from her, as a felon, by the Crown
I respect her lawyer! I admire her lawyer
I should like to take his hand, and tell him so
He wouldn't thank you, if you did
He is under a comfortable impression that nobody knows how he saved Mrs. Waldron's legacy for her but himself
I beg your pardon, Jemmy
But don't call her Mrs. Waldron. Speak of her, please, by her name when she was innocent, and young, and a girl at school. Would you mind, for my sake, calling her Miss Gwilt
Not I! It makes no difference to me what name I give her. Bother your sentiment! let's go on with the facts. This is what the lawyer did before the second trial came off. He told her she would be found guilty _again_, to a dead certainty. 'And this time,' he said, 'the public will let the law take its course. Have you got an old friend whom you can trust?' She hadn't such a thing as an old friend in the world. 'Very well, then,' says the lawyer, you must trust me. Sign this paper; and you will have executed a fictitious sale of all your property to myself. When the right time comes, I shall first carefully settle with your husband's executors; and I shall then reconvey the money to you, securing it properly (in case you ever marry again) in your own possession. The Crown, in other transactions of this kind, frequently waives its right of disputing the validity of the sale; and, if the Crown is no harder on you than on other people, when you come out of prison you will have your five thousand pounds to begin the world with again.' Neat of the lawyer, when she was going to be tried for robbing the executors, to put her up to a way of robbing the Crown, wasn't it? Ha! ha! what a world it is
In prison
Oh me, after all that misery, in prison again
Yes
that's how it ended. The verdict was Guilty; and the sentence was imprisonment for two years. She served her time; and came out, as well as I can reckon it, about three years since. If you want to know what she did when she recovered her liberty, and how she went on afterward, I may be able to tell you something about it -- say, on another occasion, when you have got an extra note or two in your pocket-book. For the present, all you need know, you do know. There isn't the shadow of a doubt that this fascinating lady has the double slur on her of having been found guilty of murder, and of having served her term of imprisonment for theft. There's your money's worth for your money -- with the whole of my wonderful knack at stating a case clearly, thrown in for nothing. If you have any gratitude in you, you ought to do something handsome, one of these days, for your son. But for me, I'll tell you what you would have done, old gentleman. If you could have had your own way, you would have married Miss Gwilt
If I could have my own way
I would marry her now
After all I have told you
After all you have told me
With the chance of being poisoned, the first time you happened to offend her
With the chance of being poisoned
in four-and-twenty hours
Mad
Stark mad, by jingo
I should like to hear the rest of it
I should like to hear every word you have to tell me about her, to the very last. But the time, the dreadful, galloping time, is getting on. For all I know, they may be on their way to be married at this very moment
What are you going to do
I am going to the hotel
I am going to see Mr. Armadale
What for
To tell him everything you have told me
Mr. Armadale is young; Mr. Armadale has all his life before him
What doesn't frighten _me_ will frighten _him_
Wait a minute
Are you as certain as ever that Mr. Armadale is the man
What man
The man who is going to marry her
Yes! yes! yes! Let me go, Jemmy -- let me go
It may be a hundred pounds in my pocket if I work it myself
And it won't be a half-penny if I leave it to my father
Can you carry it all in your own addled old head, daddy
Not you! I'll go with you and help you. What do you think of that
I can't help it, Jemmy
You are so good to me. Take the other note, my dear -- I'll manage without it -- take the other note
Hang it, old gentleman, I'm not quite so mercenary as _that_
Put up your pocket-book, and let's be off
If I took my respected parent's last five-pound note
how do I know he mightn't cry halves when he sees the color of Mr. Armadale's money
Come along, dad
We'll take a cab and catch the happy bridegroom before he starts for the church
Tell me the rest
Let's go on talking about her all the way to the hotel. Help me through the time, Jemmy -- help me through the time
Let's see if you remember what I've told you already
There's a character in the story that's dropped out of it without being accounted for. Come! can you tell me who it is
The foreign scoundrel who tempted her, and let her screen him at the risk of her own life
Don't speak of him, Jemmy -- don't speak of him again
I _must_ speak of him
You want to know what became of Miss Gwilt when she got out of prison, don't you? Very good -- I'm in a position to tell you. She became Mrs. Manuel. It's no use staring at me, old gentleman. I know it officially. At the latter part of last year, a foreign lady came to our place, with evidence to prove that she had been lawfully married to Captain Manuel, at a former period of his career, when he had visited England for the first time. She had only lately discovered that he had been in this country again; and she had reason to believe that he had married another woman in Scotland. Our people were employed to make the necessary inquiries. Comparison of dates showed that the Scotch marriage -- if it was a marriage at all, and not a sham -- had taken place just about the time when Miss Gwilt was a free woman again. And a little further investigation showed us that the second Mrs. Manuel was no other than the heroine of the famous criminal trial -- whom we didn't know then, but whom we do know now, to be identical with your fascinating friend, Miss Gwilt
Cheer up
She was no more the captain's wife than you are; and what is more, the captain himself is out of your way now. One foggy day in December last he gave us the slip; and was off to the continent, nobody knew where. He had spent the whole of the second Mrs. Manuel's five thousand pounds, in the time that had elapsed (between two and three years) since she had come out of prison; and the wonder was, where he had got the money to pay his traveling expenses. It turned out that he had got it from the second Mrs. Manuel herself. She had filled his empty pockets; and there she was, waiting confidently in a miserable London lodging, to hear from him and join him as soon as he was safely settled in foreign parts! Where had _she_ got the money, you may ask naturally enough? Nobody could tell at the time. My own notion is, now, that her former mistress must have been still living, and that she must have turned her knowledge of the Blanchards' family secret to profitable account at last. This is mere guess-work, of course; but there's a circumstance that makes it likely guess-work to my mind. She had an elderly female friend to apply to at the time, who was just the woman to help her in ferreting out her mistress's address. Can you guess the name of the elderly female friend? Not you! Mrs. Oldershaw, of course
Why should she go back
to the woman who had deserted her when she was a child
I can't say
unless she went back in the interests of her own magnificent head of hair. The prison-scissors, I needn't tell you, had made short work of it with Miss Gwilt's love-locks, in every sense of the word and Mrs. Oldershaw, I beg to add, is the most eminent woman in England, as restorer-general of the dilapidated heads and faces of the female sex. Put two and two together; and perhaps you'll agree with me, in this case, that they make four
Yes, yes; two and two make four
But I want to know something else. Did she hear from him again? Did he send for her after he had gone away to foreign parts
The captain? Why, what on earth can you be thinking of? Hadn't he spent every farthing of her money? and wasn't he loose on the Continent out of her reach? She waited to hear from him. I dare say, for she persisted in believing in him. But I'll lay you any wager you like, she never saw the sight of his handwriting again. We did our best at the office to open her eyes; we told her plainly that he had a first wife living, and that she hadn't the shadow of a claim on him. She wouldn't believe us, though we met her with the evidence. Obstinate, devilish obstinate. I dare say she waited for months together before she gave up the last hope of ever seeing him again
Where could she turn for refuge next
What, in Heaven's name, could she do
Judging by my experience of women
I should say she probably tried to drown herself. But that's only guess-work again: it's all guess-work at this part of her story. You catch me at the end of my evidence, dad, when you come to Miss Gwilt's proceedings in the spring and summer of the present year. She might, or she might not, have been desperate enough to attempt suicide; and she might, or she might not, have been at the bottom of those inquiries that I made for Mrs. Oldershaw. I dare say you'll see her this morning; and perhaps, if you use your influence, you may he able to make her finish her own story herself
Hush! hush
We have got there at last. Oh, Jemmy, feel how my heart beats! Here is the hotel
Bother your heart
Wait here while I make the inquiries
I'll come with you
I can't wait! I tell you, I can't wait
Mr. Armadale
Stuff and nonsense
He's safe enough. We shall find him at Miss Gwilt's
Thank you, my dear
Thank you for comforting me
Stop here
I mean to manage this part of the business myself
I have got a note for Miss Gwilt
She's gone
She went away last night
Isn't she there, Jemmy
isn't she there
Hold your tongue
I'm not at the end of my inquiries yet
Which of you was on duty yesterday evening, between nine and ten o'clock
I was, sir
Did you lose sight of the house?-- Yes! I see you did
Only for a minute, sir. An infernal blackguard of a soldier came in
That will do
I know what the soldier did, and who sent him to do it. She has given us the slip again. You are the greatest ass living. Consider yourself dismissed
She's gone
Oh, Jemmy, Jemmy, I see it in your face
They're married
Stop them
Go back to the hotel
Hold your noise
I want to think
The chance may be worth trying
Faster
The minutes are precious this morning; and the old one is beginning to give in
Lydia Gwilt
How long is it
since the first couple married here this morning left the church
About an hour
How did they go away
You won't trace them from here, sir
They went away on foot
And that is all you know about it
That, sir, is all I know about it
I'm afraid the old gentleman is going to be taken ill, sir
She's done us
They were married here this morning
Drive to the hospital
He's in a fit. This is what comes of putting myself out of my way to please my father
A nice morning's work. Upon my soul, a nice morning's work
Will he come out of it
Who are _you_
I am his son
I shouldn't have thought it
Yes
your father will come out of it this time
When can he be moved away from here
He can be moved from the hospital in an hour or two
I'll come back for him or send for him
I suppose I can go now, if I leave my name and address
He's a brute
No
He's a man
MY DEAR DAD -- Having seen you safe out of the hospital, and back at your hotel, I think I may fairly claim to have done my duty by you, and may consider myself free to look after my own affairs. Business will prevent me from seeing you to-night; and I don't think it at all likely I shall be in your neighborhood to-morrow morning. My advice to you is to go back to Thorpe Ambrose, and to stick to your employment in the steward's office. Wherever Mr. Armadale may be, he must, sooner or later, write to you on business. I wash my hands of the whole matter, mind, so far as I am concerned, from this time forth. But if _you_ like to go on with it, my professional opinion is (though you couldn't hinder his marriage), you may part him from his wife. "Pray take care of yourself. 

"Your affectionate son, 

"JAMES BASHWOOD
I wish Jemmy could have come to see me to-night
But it's very kind of him to advise me, all the same
Yes
there's nothing left for me but to go back. I'm too poor and too old to hunt after them all by myself
I've been a trouble to Jemmy
I've been a sad trouble, I'm afraid, to poor Jemmy
You know you don't really like the wine, Mr. Armadale. Let me make you something which may be more to your taste. I have a recipe of my own for lemonade. Will you favor me by trying it
_Dorothea, R. Y. S
Off Cape Spartivento; two days out from Messina. Nov. 5th, 4 P.M
Both our boats are stove in by the sea. The rudder is gone, and we have sprung a leak astern which is more than we can stop. The Lord help us all -- we are sinking. (Signed) John Mitchenden, Mate
Such is the story of the wreck, as the newspaper tells it in the plainest and fewest words. My head is in a whirl; my confusion is so great that I think of fifty different things in trying to think of one. I must wait -- a day more or less is of no consequence now -- I must wait till I can face my new position, without feeling bewildered by it. "November23 d.-- Eight in the morning.-- I rose an hour ago, and saw my way clearly to the first step that I must take under present circumstances. 

"It is of the utmost importance to me to know what is doing at Thorpe Ambrose; and it would be the height of rashness, while I am quite in the dark in this matter, to venture there myself. The only other alternative is to write to somebody on the spot for news; and the only person I can write to is -- Bashwood. 

"I have just finished the letter. It is headed 'private and confidential,' and signed 'Lydia Armadale.' There is nothing in it to compromise me, if the old fool is mortally offended by my treatment of him, and if he spitefully shows my letter to other people. But I don't believe he will do this. A man at his age forgives a woman anything, if the woman only encourages him. I have requested him, as a personal favor, to keep our correspondence for the present strictly private. I have hinted that my married life with my deceased husband has not been a happy one; and that I feel the injudiciousness of having married a _young_ man. In the postscript I go further still, and venture boldly on these comforting words: 'I can explain, dear Mr. Bashwood, what may have seemed fake and deceitful in my conduct toward you when you give me a personal opportunity.' If he was on the right side of sixty, I should feel doubtful of results. But he is on the wrong side of sixty, and I believe he will give me my personal opportunity. 

"Ten o'clock.-- I have been looking over the copy of my marriage certificate, with which I took care to provide myself on the wedding-day; and I have discovered, to my inexpressible dismay, an obstacle to my appearance in the character of Armadale's widow which I now see for the first time. 

"The description of Midwinter (under his own name) which the certificate presents answers in every important particular to what would have been the description of Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose, if I had really married him. 'Name and Surname'-- Allan Armadale. 'Age'-- twenty-one, instead of twenty-two, which might easily pass for a mistake. 'Condition'-- Bachelor. 'Rank or profession'-- Gentleman. 'Residence at the time of Marriage'-- Frant's Hotel, Darley Street. 'Father's Name and Surname'-- Allan Armadale. 'Rank or Profession of Father'-- Gentleman. Every particular (except the year's difference in their two ages) which answers for the one answers for the other. But suppose, when I produce my copy of the certificate, that some meddlesome lawyer insists on looking at the original register? Midwinter's writing is as different as possible from the writing of his dead friend. The hand in which he has written 'Allan Armadale' in the book has not a chance of passing for the hand in which Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose was accustomed to sign his name. 

"Can I move safely in the matter, with such a pitfall as I see here open under my feet? How can I tell? Where can I find an experienced person to inform me? I must shut up my diary and think. 

"Seven o'clock.-- My prospects have changed again since I made my last entry. I have received a warning to be careful in the future which I shall not neglect; and I have (I believe) succeeded in providing myself with the advice and assistance of which I stand in need. 

"After vainly trying to think of some better person to apply to in the difficulty which embarrassed me, I made a virtue of necessity, and set forth to surprise Mrs. Oldershaw by a visit from her darling Lydia! It is almost needless to add that I determined to sound her carefully, and not to let any secret of importance out of my own possession. 

"A sour and solemn old maid-servant admitted me into the house. When I asked for her mistress, I was reminded with the bitterest emphasis that I had committed the impropriety of calling on a Sunday. Mrs. Oldershaw was at home, solely in consequence of being too unwell to go to church! The servant thought it very unlikely that she would see me. I thought it highly probable, on the contrary, that she would honor me with an interview in her own interests, if I sent in my name as 'Miss Gwilt'-- and the event proved that I was right. After being kept waiting some minutes I was shown into the drawing-room. 

"There sat Mother Jezebel, with the air of a woman resting on the high-road to heaven, dressed in a slate-colored gown, with gray mittens on her hands, a severely simple cap on her head, and a volume of sermons on her lap. She turned up the whites of her eyes dev outly at the sight of me, and the first words she said were -- 'Oh, Lydia! Lydia! why are you not at church?' 

"If I had been less anxious, the sudden presentation of Mrs. Oldershaw in an entirely new character might have amused me. But I was in no humor for laughing, and (my notes of hand being all paid) I was under no obligation to restrain my natural freedom of speech. 'Stuff and nonsense!' I said. 'Put your Sunday face in your pocket. I have got some news for you, since I last wrote from Thorpe Ambrose.' 

"The instant I mentioned 'Thorpe Ambrose,' the whites of the old hypocrite's eyes showed themselves again, and she flatly refused to hear a word more from me on the subject of my proceedings in Norfolk. I insisted; but it was quite useless. Mother Oldershaw only shook her head and groaned, and informed me that her connection with the pomps and vanities of the world was at an end forever. 'I have been born again, Lydia,' said the brazen old wretch, wiping her eyes. 'Nothing will induce me to return to the subject of that wicked speculation of yours on the folly of a rich young man.' 

"After hearing this, I should have left her on the spot, but for one consideration which delayed me a moment longer. 

"It was easy to see, by this time, that the circumstances (whatever they might have been) which had obliged Mother Oldershaw to keep in hiding, on the occasion of my former visit to London, had been sufficiently serious to force her into giving up, or appearing to give up, her old business. And it was hardly less plain that she had found it to her advantage -- everybody in England finds it to their advantage in some way to cover the outer side of her character carefully with a smooth varnish of Cant. This was, however, no business of mine; and I should have made these reflections outside instead of inside the house, if my interests had not been involved in putting the sincerity of Mother Oldershaw's reformation to the test -- so far as it affected her past connection with myself. At the time when she had fitted me out for our enterprise, I remembered signing a certain business document which gave her a handsome pecuniary interest in my success, if I became Mrs. Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose. The chance of turning this mischievous morsel of paper to good account, in the capacity of a touchstone, was too tempting to be resisted. I asked my devout friend's permission to say one last word before I left the house. 

"'As you have no further interest in my wicked speculation at Thorpe Ambrose,' I said, 'perhaps you will give me back the written paper that I signed, when you were not quite such an exemplary person as you are now?' 

"The shameless old hypocrite instantly shut her eyes and shuddered. 

"'Does that mean Yes, or No'?' I asked. 

"'On moral and religious grounds, Lydia,' said Mrs. Oldershaw, 'it means No.' 

"'On wicked and worldly grounds,' I rejoined, 'I beg to thank you for showing me your hand.' 

"There could, indeed, be no doubt now about the object she really had in view. She would run no more risks and lend no more money; she would leave me to win or lose single-handed. If I lost, she would not be compromised. If I won, she would produce the paper I had signed, and profit by it without remorse. In my present situation, it was mere waste of time and words to prolong the matter by any useless recrimination on my side. I put the warning away privately in my memory for future use, and got up to go. 

"At the moment when I left my chair there was a sharp double knock at the street door. Mrs. Oldershaw evidently recognized it. She rose in a violent hurry, and rang the bell. 'I am too unwell to see anybody,' she said, when the servant appeared. 'Wait a moment, if you please,' she added, turning sharply on me, when the woman had left us to answer the door. 

"It was small, very small, spitefulness on my part, I know; but the satisfaction of thwarting Mother Jezebel, even in a trifle, was not to be resisted. 'I can't wait,' I said; 'you reminded me just now that I ought to be at church.' Before she could answer I was out of the room. 

"As I put my foot on the first stair the street door was opened, and a man's voice inquired whether Mrs. Oldershaw was at home. 

"I instantly recognized the voice. Doctor Downward! 

"The doctor repeated the servant's message in a tone which betrayed unmistakable irritation at finding himself admitted no further than the door. 

"'Your mistress is not well enough to see visitors? Give her that card, ' said the doctor, 'and say I expect her, the next time I call, to be well enough to see _me_.' 

"If his voice had not told me plainly that he felt in no friendly mood toward Mrs. Oldershaw, I dare say I should have let him go without claiming his acquaintance; but, as things were, I felt an impulse to speak to him or to anybody who had a grudge against Mother Jezebel. There was more of my small spitefulness in this, I suppose. Anyway, I slipped downstairs; and, following the doctor out quietly, overtook him in the street. 

"I had recognized his voice, and I recognized his back as I walked behind him. But when I called him by his name, and when he turned round with a start and confronted me, I followed his example, and started on my side. The doctor's face was transformed into the face of a perfect stranger! His baldness had hidden itself under an artfully grizzled wig. He had allowed his whiskers to grow, and had dyed them to match his new head of hair. Hideous circular spectacles bestrode his nose in place of the neat double eyeglass that he used to carry in his hand; and a black neckerchief, surmounted by immense shirt-collars, appeared as the unworthy successor of the clerical white cravat of former times. Nothing remained of the man I once knew but the comfortable plumpness of his figure, and the confidential courtesy and smoothness of his manner and his voice. 

"'Charmed to see you again,' said the doctor, looking about him a little anxiously, and producing his card-case in a very precipitate manner. 'But, my dear Miss Gwilt, permit me to rectify a slight mistake on your part. Doctor Downward of Pimlico is dead and buried; and you will infinitely oblige me if you will never, on any consideration, mention him again!' 

"I took the card he offered me, and discovered that I was now supposed to be speaking to 'Doctor Le Doux, of the Sanitarium, Fairweather Vale, Hampstead!' 

"'You seem to have found it necessary, ' I said, 'to change a great many things since I last saw you? Your name, your residence, your personal appearance --?' 

"'And my branch of practice,' interposed the doctor. 'I have purchased of the original possessor (a person of feeble enterprise and no resources) a name, a diploma, and a partially completed sanitarium for the reception of nervous invalids. We are open already to the inspection of a few privileged friends -- come and see us. Are you walking my way? Pray take my arm, and tell me to what happy chance I am indebted for the pleasure of seeing you again?' 

"I told him the circumstances exactly as they had happened, and I added (with a view to making sure of his relations with his former ally at Pimlico) that I had been greatly surprised to hear Mrs. Oldershaw's door shut on such an old friend as himself. Cautious as he was, the doctor's manner of receiving my remark satisfied me at once that my suspicions of an estrangement were well founded. His smile vanished, and he settled his hideous spectacles irritably on the bridge of his nose. 

"'Pardon me if I leave you to draw your own conclusions, ' he said. 'The subject of Mrs. Oldershaw is, I regret to say, far from agreeable to me under existing circumstances -- a business difficulty connected with our late partnership at Pimlico, entirely without interest for a young and brilliant woman like yourself. Tell me your news! Have you left your situation at Thorpe Ambrose? Are you residing in London? Is there anything, professional or otherwise, that I can do for you?' 

"That last question was a more important one than he supposed. Before I answered it, I felt the necessity of parting company with him and of getting a little time to think. 

"'You have kindly asked me, doctor, to pay you a visit,' I said. 'In your quiet house at Hampstead, I may possibly have something to say to you which I can't say in this noisy street. When are you at home at the Sanitarium? Should I find you there later in the day?' 

"The doctor assured me that he was then on his way back, and begged that I would name my own hour. I said, 'Toward the afternoon;' and, pleading an engagement, hailed the first omnibus that passed us. 'Don't forget the address,' said the doctor, as he handed me in. 'I have got your card,' I answered, and so we parted. 

"I returned to the hotel, and went up into my room, and thought over it very anxiously. 

"The serious obstacle of the signature on the marriage register still stood in my way as unmanageably as ever. All hope of getting assistance from Mrs. Oldershaw was at an end. I could only regard her henceforth as an enemy hidden in the dark -- the enemy, beyond all doubt now, who had had me followed and watched when I was last in London. To what other counselor could I turn for the advice which my unlucky ignorance of law and business obliged me to seek from some one more experienced than myself? Could I go to the lawyer whom I consulted when I was about to marry Midwinter in my maiden name? Impossible! To say nothing of his cold reception of me when I had last seen him, the advice I wanted this time related (disguise the facts as I might) to commission of a Fraud -- a fraud of the sort that no prosperous lawyer would consent to assist if he had a character to lose. Was there any other competent person I could think of? There was one, and one only -- the doctor who had died at Pimlico, and had revived again at Hampstead. 

"I knew him to be entirely without scruples; to have the business experience that I wanted myself; and to be as cunning, as clever, and as far-seeing a man as could be found in all London. Beyond this, I had made two important discoveries in connection with him that morning. In the first place, he was on bad terms with Mrs. Oldershaw, which would protect me from all danger of the two leaguing together against me if I trusted him. In the second place, circumstances still obliged him to keep his identity carefully disguised, which gave me a hold over him in no respect inferior to any hold that _I_ might give him over _me_. In every way he was the right man, the only man, for my purpose; and yet I hesitated at going to him -- hesitated for a full hour and more, without knowing why! 

"It was two o'clock before I finally decided on paying the doctor a visit. Having, after this, occupied nearly another hour in determining to a hair-breadth how far I should take him into my confidence, I sent for a cab at last, and set off toward three in the afternoon for Hampstead. 

"I found the Sanitarium with some little difficulty. 

"Fairweather Vale proved to be a new neighborhood, situated below the high ground of Hampstead, on the southern side. The day was overcast, and the place looked very dreary. We approached it by a new road running between trees, which might once have been the park avenue of a country house. At the end we came upon a wilderness of open ground, with half-finished villas dotted about, and a hideous litter of boards, wheelbarrows, and building materials of all sorts scattered in every direction. At one corner of this scene of desolation, stood a great overgrown dismal house, plastered with drab-colored stucco, and surrounded by a naked, unfinished garden, without a shrub or a flower in it, frightful to behold. On the open iron gate that led into this inclosure was a new brass plate, with 'Sanitarium' inscribed on it in great black letters. The bell, when the cabman rang it, pealed through the empty house like a knell; and the pallid, withered old man-servant in black who answered the door looked as if he had stepped up out of his grave to perform that service. He let out on me a smell of damp plaster and new varnish; and he let in with me a chilling draft of the damp November air. I didn't notice it at the time, but, writing of it now, I remember that I shivered as I crossed the threshold. 

"I gave my name to the servant as 'Mrs. Armadale,' and was shown into the waiting-room. The very fire itself was dying of damp in the grate. The only books on the table were the doctor's Works, in sober drab covers; and the only object that ornamented the walls was the foreign Diploma (handsomely framed and glazed), of which the doctor had possessed himself by purchase, along with the foreign name. 

"After a moment or two, the proprietor of the Sanitarium came in, and held up his hands in cheerful astonishment at the sight of me. 

"'I hadn't an idea who "Mrs. Armadale" was!' he said. 'My dear lady, have _you_ changed your name too? How sly of you not to tell me when we met this morning! Come into my private snuggery -- I can't think of keeping an old and dear friend like you in the patients' waiting-room.' 

"The doctor's private snuggery was at the back of the house, looking out on fields and trees, doomed but not yet destroyed by the builder. Horrible objects in brass and leather and glass, twisted and turned as if they were sentient things writhing in agonies of pain, filled up one end of the room. A great book-case with glass doors extended over the whole of the opposite wall, and exhibited on its shelves long rows of glass jars, in which shapeless dead creatures of a dull white color floated in yellow liquid. Above the fireplace hung a collection of photographic portraits of men and women, inclosed in two large frames hanging side by side with a space between them. The left-hand frame illustrated the effects of nervous suffering as seen in the face; the right-hand frame exhibited the ravages of insanity from the same point of view; while the space between was occupied by an elegantly illuminated scroll, bearing inscribed on it the time-honored motto, 'Prevention is better than Cure.' 

"'Here I am, with my galvanic apparatus, and my preserved specimens, and all the rest of it, ' said the doctor, placing me in a chair by the fireside. 'And there is my System mutely addressing you just above your head, under a form of exposition which I venture to describe as frankness itself. This is no mad-house, my dear lady. Let other men treat insanity, if they like -- _I_ stop it! No patients in the house as yet. But we live in an age when nervous derangement (parent of insanity) is steadily on the increase; and in due time the sufferers will come. I can wait as Harvey waited, as Jenner waited. And now do put your feet up on the fender, and tell me about yourself. You are married, of course? And what a pretty name! Accept my best and most heart-felt congratulations. You have the two greatest blessings that can fall to a woman's lot; the two capital H's, as I call them -- Husband and Home.' 

"I interrupted the genial flow of the doctor's congratulations at the first opportunity. 

"'I am married; but the circumstances are by no means of the ordinary kind, ' I said, seriously. My present position includes none of the blessings that are usually supposed to fall to a woman's lot. I am already in a situation of very serious difficulty; and before long I may be in a situation of very serious danger as well.' 

"The doctor drew his chair a little nearer to me, and fell at once into his old professional manner and his old confidential tone. 

"'If you wish to consult me, ' he said, softly, 'you know that I have kept some dangerous secrets in my time, and you also know that I possess two valuable qualities as an adviser. I am not easily shocked; and I can be implicitly trusted.' 

"I hesitated even now, at the eleventh hour, sitting alone with him in his own room. It was so strange to me to be trusting to anybody but myself! And yet, how could I help trusting another person in a difficulty which turned on a matter of law? 

"'Just as you please, you know,' added the doctor. 'I never invite confidences. I merely receive them.' 

"There was no help for it; I had come there not to hesitate, but to speak. I risked it, and spoke. 

"'The matter on which I wish to consult you,' I said, 'is not (as you seem to think) within your experience as a professional man. But I believe you may be of assistance to me, if I trust myself to your larger experience as a man of the world. I warn you beforehand that I shall certainly surprise, and possibly alarm, you before I have done.' 

"With that preface I entered on my story, telling him what I had settled to tell him, and no more. 

"I made no secret, at the outset, of my intention to personate Armadale's widow; and I mentioned without reserve (knowing that the doctor could go to the office and examine the will for himself) the handsome income that would be settled on me in the event of my success. Some of the circumstances that followed next in succession I thought it desirable to alter or conceal. I showed him the newspaper account of the loss of the yacht, but I said nothing about events at Naples. I informed him of the exact similarity of the two names; leaving him to imagine that it was accidental. I told him, as an important element in the matter, that my husband had kept his real name a profound secret from everybody but myself; but (to prevent any communication between them) I carefully concealed from the doctor what the assumed name under which Midwinter had lived all his life really was. I acknowledged that I had left my husband behind me on the Continent; but when the doctor put the question, I allowed him to conclude -- I couldn't, with all my resolution, tell him positively!-- that Midwinter knew of the contemplated Fraud, and that he was staying away purposely, so as not to compromise me by his presence. This difficulty smoothed over -- or, as I feel it now, this baseness committed -- I reverted to myself, and came back again to the truth. One after another I mentioned all the circumstances connected with my private marriage, and with the movements of Armadale and Midwinter, which rendered any discovery of the false personation (through the evidence of other people) a downright impossibility. 'So much,' I said, in conclusion, 'for the object in view. The next thing is to tell you plainly of a very serious obstacle that stands in my way.' 

"The doctor, who had listened thus far without interrupting me, begged permission here to say a few words on his side before I went on. 

"The 'few words' proved to be all questions -- clever, searching, suspicious questions -- which I was, however, able to answer with little or no reserve, for they related, in almost every instance, to the circumstances under which I had been married, and to the chances for and against my lawful husband if he chose to assert his claim to me at any future time. 

"My replies informed the doctor, in the first place, that I had so managed matters at Thorpe Ambrose as to produce a general impression that Armadale intended to marry me; in the second place, that my husband's early life had not been of a kind to exhibit him favorably in the eyes of the world; in the third place, that we had been married, without any witnesses present who knew us, at a large parish church in which two other couples had been married the same morning, to say nothing of the dozens on dozens of other couples (confusing all remembrance of us in the minds of the officiating people) who had been married since. When I had put the doctor in possession of these facts -- and when he had further ascertained that Midwinter and I had gone abroad among strangers immediately after leaving the church; and that the men employed on board the yacht in which Armadale had sailed from Somersetshire (before my marriage) were now away in ships voyaging to the other end of the world -- his confidence in my prospects showed itself plainly in his face. 'So far as I can see,' he said, 'your husband's claim to you (after you have stepped into the place of the dead Mr. Armadale's widow) would rest on nothing but his own bare assertion. And _that_ I think you may safely set at defiance. Excuse my apparent distrust of the gentleman. But there might be a misunderstanding between you in the future, and it is highly desirable to ascertain beforehand exactly what he could or could not do under those circumstances. And now that we have done with the main obstacle that _I_ see in the way of your success, let us by all means come to the obstacle that _you_ see next!' 

"I was willing enough to come to it. The tone in which he spoke of Midwinter, though I myself was responsible for it, jarred on me horribly, and roused for the moment some of the old folly of feeling which I fancied I had laid asleep forever. I rushed at the chance of changing the subject, and mentioned the discrepancy in the register between the hand in which Midwinter had signed the name of Allan Armadale, and the hand in which Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose had been accustomed to write his name, with an eagerness which it quite diverted the doctor to see. 

"'Is _that_ all?' he asked, to my infinite surprise and relief, when I had done. 'My dear lady, pray set your mind at ease! If the late Mr. Armadale's lawyers want a proof of your marriage, they won't go to the church-register for it, I can promise you!' 

"'What!' I exclaimed, in astonishment. 'Do you mean to say that the entry in the register is not a proof of my marriage?' 

"'It is a proof, ' said the doctor, 'that you have been married to somebody. But it is no proof that you have been married to Mr. Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose. Jack Nokes or Tom Styles (excuse the homeliness of the illustration!) might have got the license, and gone to the church to be married to you under Mr. Armadale's name; and the register (how could it do otherwise?) must in that case have innocently assisted the deception. I see I surprise you. My dear madam, when you opened this interesting business you surprised _me_ -- I may own it now -- by laying so much stress on the curious similarity between the two names. You might have entered on the very daring and romantic enterprise in which you are now engaged, without necessarily marrying your present husband. Any other man would have done just as well, provided he was willing to take Mr. Armadale's name for the purpose.' 

"I felt my temper going at this. 'Any other man would _not_ have done just as well,' I rejoined, instantly. 'But for the similarity of the names, I should never have thought of the enterprise at all.' 

"The doctor admitted that he had spoken too hastily. 'That personal view of the subject had, I confess, escaped me,' he said. 'However, let us get back to the matter in hand. In the course of what I may term an adventurous medical life, I have been brought more than once into contact with the gentlemen of the law, and have had opportunities of observing their proceedings in cases of, let us say, Domestic Jurisprudence. I am quite sure I am correct in informing you that the proof which will be required by Mr. Armadale's representatives will be the evidence of a witness present at the marriage who can speak to the identity of the bride and bridegroom from his own personal knowledge.' 

"'But I have already told you, ' I said, 'that there was no such person present.' 

"'Precisely,' rejoined the doctor. 'In that case, what you now want, before you can safely stir a step in the matter, is -- if you will pardon me the expression -- a ready-made witness, possessed of rare moral and personal resources, who can be trusted to assume the necessary character, and to make the necessary Declaration before a magistrate. Do you know of any such person?' asked the doctor, throwing himself back in his chair, and looking at me with the utmost innocence. 

"'I only know you,' I said. 

"The doctor laughed softly. 'So like a woman!' he remarked, with the most exasperating good humor. 'The moment she sees her object, she dashes at it headlong the nearest way. Oh, the sex! the sex!' 

"'Never mind the sex!' I broke out, impatiently. 'I want a serious answer -- Yes or No?' 

"The doctor rose, and waved his hand with great gravity and dignity all round the room. 'You see this vast establishment,' he began; 'you can possibly estimate to some extent the immense stake I have in its prosperity and success. Your excellent natural sense will tell you that the Principal of this Sanitarium must be a man of the most unblemished character --' 

"'Why waste so many words,' I said, 'when one word will do? You mean No!' 

"The Principal of the Sanitarium suddenly relapsed into the character of my confidential friend. 

"'My dear lady,' he said, 'it isn't Yes, and it isn't No, at a moment's notice. Give me till to-morrow afternoon. By that time I engage to be ready to do one of two things -- either to withdraw myself from this business at once, or to go into it with you heart and soul. Do you agree to that? Very good; we may drop the subject, then, till to-morrow. Where can I call on you when I have decided what to do?' 

"There was no objection to my trusting him with my address at the hotel. I had taken care to present myself there as 'Mrs. Armadale'; and I had given Midwinter an address at the neighboring post-office to write to when he answered my letters. We settled the hour at which the doctor was to call on me; and, that matter arranged, I rose to go, resisting all offers of refreshment, and all proposals to show me over the house. His smooth persistence in keeping up appearances after we had thoroughly understood each other disgusted me. I got away from him as soon as I could, and came back to my diary and my own room. 

"We shall see how it ends to-morrow. My own idea is that my confidential friend will say Yes. 

"November24 th.-- The doctor has said Yes, as I supposed; but on terms which I never anticipated. The condition on which I have secured his services amounts to nothing less than the payment to him, on my stepping into the place of Armadale's widow, of half my first year's income -- in other words, six hundred pounds! 

"I protested against this extortionate demand in every way I could think of. All to no purpose. The doctor met me with the most engaging frankness. Nothing, he said, but the accidental embarrassment of his position at the present time would have induced him to mix himself up in the matter at all. He would honestly confess that he had exhausted his own resources, and the resources of other persons whom he described as his 'backers,' in the purchase and completion of the Sanitarium. Under those circumstances, six hundred pounds in prospect was an object to him. For that sum he would run the serious risk of advising and assisting me. Not a farthing less would tempt him; and there he left it, with his best and friendliest wishes, in my hands! 

"It ended in the only way in which it could end. I had no choice but to accept the terms, and to let the doctor settle things on the spot as he pleased. The arrangement once made between us, I must do him the justice to say that he showed no disposition to let the grass grow under his feet. He called briskly for pen, ink and paper, and suggested opening the campaign at Thorpe Ambrose by to-night's post. 

"We agreed on a form of letter which I wrote, and which he copied on the spot. I entered into no particulars at starting. I simply asserted that I was the widow of the deceased Mr. Armadale; that I had been privately married to him; that I had returned to England on his sailing in the yacht from Naples; and that I begged to inclose a copy of my marriage certificate, as a matter of form with which I presumed it was customary to comply. The letter was addressed to 'The Representatives of the late Allan Armadale, Esq., Thorpe Ambrose, Norfolk.' And the doctor himself carried it away, and put it in the post. 

"I am not so excited and so impatient for results as I expected to be, now that the first step is taken. The thought of Midwinter haunts me like a ghost. I have been writing to him again -- as before, to keep up appearances. It will be my last letter, I think. My courage feels shaken, my spirits get depressed, when my thoughts go back to Turin. I am no more capable of facing the consideration of Midwinter at this moment than I was in the by-gone time, The day of reckoning with him, once distant and doubtful, is a day that may come to me now, I know not how soon. And here I am, trusting myself blindly to the chapter of Accidents still! 

"November25 th.-- At two o'clock to-day the doctor called again by appointment. He has been to his lawyers (of course without taking them into our confidence) to put the case simply of proving my marriage. The result confirms what he has already told me. The pivot on which the whole matter will turn, if my claim is disputed, will be the question of identity; and it may be necessary for the witness to make his Declaration in the magistrate's presence before the week is out. 

"In this position of affairs, the doctor thinks it important that we should be within easy reach of each other, and proposes to find a quiet lodging for me in his neighborhood. I am quite willing to go anywhere; for, among the other strange fancies that have got possession of me, I have an idea that I shall feel more completely lost to Midwinter if I move out of the neighborhood in which his letters are addressed to me. I was awake and thinking of him again last night This morning I have finally decided to write to him no more. 

"After staying half an hour, the doctor left me, having first inquired whether I would like to accompany him to Hampstead to look for lodgings. I informed him that I had some business of my own which would keep me in London. He inquired what the business was. 'You will see,' I said, 'to-morrow or next day.' 

"I had a moment's nervous trembling when I was by myself again. My business in London, besides being a serious business in a woman's eyes, took my mind back to Midwinter in spite of me. The prospect of removing to my new lodging had reminded me of the necessity of dressing in my new character. The time had come now for getting _my widow's weeds_. 

"My first proceeding, after putting my bonnet on, was to provide myself with money. I got what I wanted to fit me out for the character of Armadale's widow by nothing less than the sale of Armadale's own present to me on my marriage -- the ruby ring! It proved to be a more valuable jewel than I had supposed. I am likely to be spared all money anxieties for some time to come. 

"On leaving the jeweler's, I went to the great mourning shop in Regent Street. In four-and-twenty hours (if I can give them no more) they have engaged to dress me in my widow's costume from head to foot. I had another feverish moment when I left the shop; and, by way of further excitement on this agitating day, I found a surprise in store for me on my return to the hotel. An elderly gentleman was announced to be waiting to see me. I opened my sitting-room door, and there was old Bashwood! 

"He had got my letter that morning, and had started for London by the next train to answer it in person. I had expected a great deal from him, but I had certainly not expected _that_. It flattered me. For the moment, I declare it flattered me! 

"I pass over the wretched old creature's raptures and reproaches, and groans and tears, and weary long prosings about the lonely months he had passed at Thorpe Ambrose, brooding over my desertion of him. He was quite eloquent at times; but I don't want his eloquence here. It is needless to say that I put myself right with him, and consulted his feelings before I asked him for his news. What a blessing a woman's vanity is sometimes! I almost forgot my risks and responsibilities in my anxieties to be charming. For a minute or two I felt a warm little flutter of triumph. And it was a triumph -- even with an old man! In a quarter of an hour I had him smirking and smiling, hanging on my lightest words in an ecstasy, and answering all the questions I put to him like a good little child. 

"Here is his account of affairs at Thorpe Ambrose, as I gently extracted it from him bit by bit: 

"In the first place, the news of Armadale's death has reached Miss Milroy. It has so completely overwhelmed her that her father has been compelled to remove her from the school. She is back at the cottage, and the doctor is in daily attendance. Do I pity her? Yes! I pity her exactly as much as she once pitied me! 

"In the next place, the state of affairs at the great house, which I expected to find some difficulty in comprehending, turns out to be quite intelligible, and certainly not discouraging so far. Only yesterday, the lawyers on both sides came to an understanding. Mr. Darch (the family solicitor of the Blanchards, and Armadale's bitter enemy in past times) represents the interests of Miss Blanchard, who (in the absence of any male heir) is next heir to the estate, and who has, it appears, been in London for some time past. Mr. Smart, of Norwich (originally employed to overlook Bashwood), represents the deceased Armadale. And this is what the two lawyers have settled between them. 

"Mr. Darch, acting for Miss Blanchard, has claimed the possession of the estate, and the right of receiving the rents at the Christmas audit, in her name. Mr. Smart, on his side, has admitted that there is great weight in the family solicitor's application. He cannot see his way, as things are now, to contesting the question of Armadale's death, and he will consent to offer no resistance to the application, if Mr. Darch will consent, on his side, to assume the responsibility of taking possession in Miss Blanchard's name. This Mr. Darch has already done; and the estate is now virtually in Miss Blanchard's possession. 

"One result of this course of proceeding will be (as Bashwood thinks) to put Mr. Darch in the position of the person who really decides on my claim to the widow's place and the widow's money. The income being charged on the estate, it must come out of Miss Blanchard's pocket; and the question of paying it would appear, therefore, to be a question for Miss Blanchard's lawyer. To-morrow will probably decide whether this view is the right one, for my letter to Armadale's representatives will have been delivered at the great house this morning. 

"So much for what old Bashwood had to tell me. Having recovered my influence over him, and possessed myself of all his information so far, the next thing to consider was the right use to turn him to in the future. He was entirely at my disposal, for his place at the steward's office has been already taken by Miss Blanchard's man of business, and he pleaded hard to be allowed to stay and serve my interests in London. There would not have been the least danger in letting him stay, for I had, as a matter of course, left him undisturbed in his conviction that I really am the widow of Armadale of Thorpe Ambrose. But with the doctor's resources at my command, I wanted no assistance of any sort in London; and it occurred to me that I might make Bashwood more useful by sending him back to Norfolk to watch events there in my interests. 

"He looked sorely disappointed (having had an eye evidently to paying his court to me in my widowed condition!) when I told him of the conclusion at which I had arrived. But a few words of persuasion, and a modest hint that he might cherish hopes in the future if he served me obediently in the present, did wonders in reconciling him to the necessity of meeting my wishes. He asked helplessly for 'instructions' when it was time for him to leave me and travel back by the evening train. I could give him none, for I had no idea as yet of what the legal people might or might not do. 'But suppose something happens,' he persisted, 'that I don't understand, what am I to do, so far away from you?' I could only give him one answer. 'Do nothing,' I said. 'Whatever it is, hold your tongue about it, and write, or come up to London immediately to consult me.' With those parting directions, and with an understanding that we were to correspond regularly, I let him kiss my hand, and sent him off to the train. 

"Now that I am alone again, and able to think calmly of the interview between me and my elderly admirer, I find myself recalling a certain change in old Bashwood's manner which puzzled me at the time, and which puzzles me still. 

"Even in his first moments of agitation at seeing me, I thought that his eyes rested on my face with a new kind of interest while I was speaking to him. Besides this, he dropped a word or two afterward, in telling me of his lonely life at Thorpe Ambrose, which seemed to imply that he had been sustained in his solitude by a feeling of confidence about his future relations with me when we next met. If he had been a younger and a bolder man (and if any such discovery had been possible), I should almost have suspected him of having found out something about my past life which had made him privately confident of controlling me, if I showed any disposition to deceive and desert him again. But such an idea as this in connection with old Bashwood is simply absurd. Perhaps I am overexcited by the suspense and anxiety of my present position? Perhaps the merest fancies and suspicions are leading me astray? Let this be as it may, I have, at any rate, more serious subjects than the subject of old Bashwood to occupy me now. Tomorrow's post may tell me what Armadale's representatives think of the claim of Armadale's widow. 

"November26 th.-- The answer has arrived this morning, in the form (as Bashwood supposed) of a letter from Mr. Darch. The crabbed old lawyer acknowledges my letter in three lines. Before he takes any steps, or expresses any opinion on the subject, he wants evidence of identity as well as the evidence of the certificate; and he ventures to suggest that it may be desirable, before we go any further, to refer him to my legal advisers. 

"Two o'clock.-- The doctor called shortly after twelve to say that he had found a lodging for me within twenty minutes' walk of the Sanitarium. In return for his news, I showed him Mr. Darch's letter. He took it away at once to his lawyers, and came back with the necessary information for my guidance. I have answered Mr. Darch by sending him the address of my legal advisers -- otherwise, the doctor's lawyers -- without making any comment on the desire that he has expressed for additional evidence of the marriage. This is all that can be done to-day. To-morrow will bring with it events of greater interest, for to-morrow the doctor is to make his Declaration before the magistrate, and to-morrow I am to move to my new lodging in my widow's weeds. 

"November27 th.-- Fairweather Vale Villas.-- The Declaration has been made, with all the necessary formalities. And I have taken possession, in my widow's costume, of my new rooms. 

"I ought to be excited by the opening of this new act in the drama, and by the venturesome part that I am playing in it myself. Strange to say, I am quiet and depressed. The thought of Midwinter has followed me to my new abode, and is pressing on me heavily at this moment. I have no fear of any accident happening, in the interval that must still pass before I step publicly into the place of Armadale's widow. But when that time comes, and when Midwinter finds me (as sooner or later find me he must!) figuring in my false character, and settled in the position that I have usurped -- _then_, I ask myself, What will happen? The answer still comes as it first came to me this morning, when I put on my widow's dress. Now, as then, the presentiment is fixed in my mind that he will kill me. If it was not too late to draw back -- Absurd! I shall shut up my journal. 

"November28 th.-- The lawyers have heard from Mr. Darch, and have sent him the Declaration by return of post. 

"When the doctor brought me this news, I asked him whether his lawyers were aware of my present address; and, finding that he had not yet mentioned it to them, I begged that he would continue to keep it a secret for the future. The doctor laughed. 'Are you afraid of Mr. Darch's stealing a march on us, and coming to attack you personally?' he asked. I accepted the imputation, as the easiest way of making him comply with my request. 'Yes,' I said, 'I am afraid of Mr. Darch.' 

"My spirits have risen since the doctor left me. There is a pleasant sensation of security in feeling that no strangers are in possession of my address. I am easy enough in my mind to-day to notice how wonderfully well I look in my widow's weeds, and to make myself agreeable to the people of the house. 

"Midwinter disturbed me a little again last night; but I have got over the ghastly delusion which possessed me yesterday. I know better now than to dread violence from him when he discovers what I have done. And there is still less fear of his stooping to assert his claim to a woman who has practiced on him such a deception as mine. The one serious trial that I shall be put to when the day of reckoning comes will be the trial of preserving my false character in his presence. I shall be safe in his loathing and contempt for me, after that. On the day when I have denied him to his face, I shall have seen the last of him forever. 

"Shall I be able to deny him to his face? Shall I be able to look at him and speak to him as if he had never been more to me than a friend? How do I know till the time comes? Was there ever such an infatuated fool as I am, to be writing of him at all, when writing only encourages me to think of him? I will make a new resolution. From this time forth, his name shall appear no more in these pages. 

"Monday, December1 st.-- The last month of the worn-out old year 1851! If I allowed myself to look back, what a miserable year I should see added to all the other miserable years that are gone! But I have made my resolution to look forward only, and I mean to keep it. 

"I have nothing to record of the last two days, except that on the twenty-ninth I remembered Bashwood, and wrote to tell him of my new address. This morning the lawyers heard again from Mr. Darch. He acknowledges the receipt of the Declaration, but postpones stating the decision at which he has arrived until he has communicated with the trustees under the late Mr. Blanchard's will, and has received his final instructions from his client, Miss Blanchard. The doctor's lawyers declare that this last letter is a mere device for gaining time -- with what object they are, of course, not in a position to guess. The doctor himself says, facetiously, it is the usual lawyer's object of making a long bill. My own idea is that Mr. Darch has his suspicions of something wrong, and that his purpose in trying to gain time -- 

"Ten, at night.-- I had written as far as that last unfinished sentence (toward four in the afternoon) when I was startled by hearing a cab drive up to the door. I went to the window, and got there just in time to see old Bashwood getting out with an activity of which I should never have supposed him capable. So little did I anticipate the tremendous discovery that was going to burst on me in another minute, that I turned to the glass, and wondered what the susceptible old gentleman would say to me in my widow's cap. 

"The instant he entered the room, I saw that some serious disaster had happened. His eyes were wild, his wig was awry. He approached me with a strange mixture of eagerness and dismay. 'I've done as you told me,' he whispered, breathlessly. 'I've held my tongue about it, and come straight to _you_!' He caught me by the hand before I could speak, with a boldness quite new in my experience of him. 'Oh how can I break it to you!' he burst out. 'I'm beside myself when I think of it!' 

"'When you _can_ speak, ' I said, putting him into a chair, 'speak out. I see in your face that you bring me news I don't look for from Thorpe Ambrose.' 

"He put his hand into the breast-pocket of his coat, and drew out a letter. He looked at the letter, and looked at me. 'New -- new -- news you don't look for,' he stammered; 'but not from Thorpe Ambrose!' 

"'Not from Thorpe Ambrose!' 

"'No. From the sea!' 

"The first dawning of the truth broke on me at those words. I couldn't speak -- I could only hold out my hand to him for the letter. 

"He still shrank from giving it to me. 'I daren't! I daren't!' he said to himself, vacantly. 'The shock of it might be the death of her.' 

"I snatched the letter from him. One glance at the writing on the address was enough. My hands fell on my lap, with the letter fast held in them. I sat petrified, without moving, without speaking, without hearing a word of what Bashwood was saying to me, and slowly realized the terrible truth. The man whose widow I had claimed to be was a living man to confront me! In vain I had mixed the drink at Naples -- in vain I had betrayed him into Manuel's hands. Twice I had set the deadly snare for him, and twice Armadale had escaped me! "I came to my sense of outward things again, and found Bashwood on his knees at my feet, crying. 

"'You look angry, ' he murmured, helplessly. 'Are you angry with _me_? Oh, if you only knew what hopes I had when we last saw each other, and how cruelly that letter has dashed them all to the ground!' 

"I put the miserable old creature back from me, but very gently. 'Hush!' I said. 'Don't distress me now. I want composure; I want to read the letter.' 

"He went away submissively to the other end of the room. As soon as my eye was off him, I heard him say to himself, with impotent malignity, 'If the sea had been of my mind, the sea would have drowned him!' 

"One by one I slowly opened the folds of the letter; feeling, while I did so, the strangest incapability of fixing my attention on the very lines that I was burning to read. But why dwell any longer on sensations which I can't describe? It will be more to the purpose if I place the letter itself, for future reference, on this page of my journal. 

'Fiume, Illyria, November 21, 1851. 

"MR. BASHWOOD -- The address I date from will surprise you; and you will be more surprised still when you hear how it is that I come to write to you from a port on the Adriatic Sea. 

"I have been the victim of a rascally attempt at robbery and murder. The robbery has succeeded; and it is only through the mercy of God that the murder did not succeed too. 

"I hired a yacht rather more than a month ago at Naples; and sailed (I am glad to think now) without any friend with me, for Messina. From Messina I went for a cruise in the Adriatic. Two days out we were caught in a storm. Storms get up in a hurry, and go down in a hurry, in those parts. The vessel behaved nobly: I declare I feel the tears in my eyes now, when I think of her at the bottom of the sea! Toward sunset it began to moderate; and by midnight, except for a long, smooth swell, the sea was as quiet as need be. I went below, a little tired (having helped in working the yacht while the gale lasted), and fell asleep in five minutes. About two hours after, I was woke by something falling into my cabin through a chink of the ventilator in the upper part of the door. I jumped up, and found a bit of paper with a key wrapped in it, and with writing on the inner side, in a hand which it was not very easy to read. 

"Up to this time I had not had the ghost of a suspicion that I was alone at sea with a gang of murderous vagabonds (excepting one only) who would stick at nothing. I had got on very well with my sailing-master (the worst scoundrel of the lot), and better still with his English mate. The sailors, being all foreigners, I had very little to say to. They did their work, and no quarrels and nothing unpleasant happened. If anybody had told me, before I went to bed on the night after the storm, that the sailing-master and the crew and the mate (who had been no better than the rest of them at starting) were all in a conspiracy to rob me of the money I had on board, and then to drown me in my own vessel afterward, I should have laughed in his face. Just remember that; and then fancy for yourself (for I'm sure I can't tell you) what I must have thought when I opened the paper round the key, and read what I now copy (from the mate's writing), as follows: 

"'SIR -- Stay in your bed till you hear a boat shove off from the starboard side, or you are a dead man. Your money is stolen; and in five minutes' time the yacht will be scuttled, and the cabin hatch will be nailed down on you. Dead men tell no tales; and the sailing-master's notion is to leave proofs afloat that the vessel has foundered with all on board. It was his doing, to begin with, and we were all in it. I can't find it in my heart not to give you a chance for your life. It's a bad chance, but I can do no more. I should be murdered myself if I didn't seem to go with the rest. The key of your cabin door is thrown back to you, inside this. Don't be alarmed when you hear the hammer above. I shall do it, and I shall have short nails in my hand as well as long, and use the short ones only. Wait till you hear the boat with all of us shove off, and then pry up the cabin hatch with your back. The vessel will float a quarter of an hour after the holes are bored in her. Slip into the sea on the port side, and keep the vessel between you and the boat. You will find plenty of loose lumber, wrenched away on purpose, drifting about to hold on by. It's a fine night and a smooth sea, and there's a chance that a ship may pick you up while there's life left in you. I can do no more.-- Yours truly, J. M.' 

"As I came to those last words, I heard the hammering down of the hatch over my head. I don't suppose I'm more of a coward than most people, but there was a moment when the sweat poured down me like rain. I got to be my own man again before the hammering was done, and found myself thinking of somebody very dear to me in England. I said to myself: 'I'll have a try for my life, for her sake, though the chances are dead against me.' 

"I put a letter from that person I have mentioned into one of the stoppered bottles of my dressing-case, along with the mate's warning, in case I lived to see him again. I hung this, and a flask of whisky, in a sling round my neck; and, after first dressing myself in my confusion, thought better of it, and stripped, again, for swimming, to my shirt and drawers. By the time I had done that the hammering was over and there was such a silence that I could hear the water bubbling into the scuttled vessel amidships. The next noise was the noise of the boat and the villains in her (always excepting my friend, the mate) shoving off from the starboard side. I waited for the splash of the oars in the water, and then got my back under the hatch. The mate had kept his promise. I lifted it easily -- crept across the deck, under cover of the bulwarks, on all fours -- and slipped into the sea on the port side. Lots of things were floating about. I took the first thing I came to -- a hen-coop -- and swam away with it about a couple of hundred yards, keeping the yacht between me and the boat. Having got that distance, I was seized with a shivering fit, and I stopped (fearing the cramp next) to take a pull at my flask. When I had closed the flask again, I turned for a moment to look back, and saw the yacht in the act of sinking. In a minute more there was nothing between me and the boat but the pieces of wreck that had been purposely thrown out to float. The moon was shining; and, if they had had a glass in the boat, I believe they might have seen my head, though I carefully kept the hen-coop between me and them. 

"As it was, they laid on their oars; and I heard loud voices among them disputing. After what seemed an age to me, I discovered what the dispute was about. The boat's head was suddenly turned my way. Some cleverer scoundrel than the rest (the sailing-master, I dare say) had evidently persuaded them to row back over the place where the yacht had gone down, and make quite sure that I had gone down with her. 

"They were more than half-way across the distance that separated us, and I had given myself up for lost, when I heard a cry from one of them, and saw the boat's progress suddenly checked. In a minute or two more the boat's head was turned again; and they rowed straight away from me like men rowing for their lives. 

"I looked on one side toward the land, and saw nothing. I looked on the other toward the sea, and discovered what the boat's crew had discovered before me -- a sail in the distance, growing steadily brighter and bigger in the moonlight the longer I looked at it. In a quarter of an hour more the vessel was within hail of me, and the crew had got me on board. 

"They were all foreigners, and they quite deafened me by their jabber. I tried signs, but before I could make them understand me I was seized with another shivering fit, and was carried below. The vessel held on her course, I have no doubt, but I was in no condition to know anything about it. Before morning I was in a fever; and from that time I can remember nothing clearly till I came to my senses at this place, and found myself under the care of a Hungarian merchant, the consignee (as they call it) of the coasting vessel that had picked me up. He speaks English as well or better than I do; and he has treated me with a kindness which I can find no words to praise. When he was a young man he was in England himself, learning business, and he says he has remembrances of our country which make his heart warm toward an Englishman. He has fitted me out with clothes, and has lent me the money to travel with, as soon as the doctor allows me to start for home. Supposing I don't get a relapse, I shall be fit to travel in a week's time from this. If I can catch the mail at Trieste, and stand the fatigue, I shall be back again at Thorpe Ambrose in a week or ten days at most after you get my letter. You will agree with me that it is a terribly long letter. But I can't help that. I seem to have lost my old knack at putting things short, and finishing on the first page. However, I am near the end now; for I have nothing left to mention but the reason why I write about what has happened to me, instead of waiting till I get home, and telling it all by word of mouth. 

"I fancy my head is still muddled by my illness. At any rate, it only struck me this morning that there is barely a chance of some vessel having passed the place where the yacht foundered, and having picked up the furniture, and other things wrenched out of her and left to float. Some false report of my being drowned may, in that case, have reached England. If this has happened (which I hope to God may be an unfounded fear on my part), go directly to Major Milroy at the cottage. Show him this letter -- I have written it quite as much for his eye as for yours -- and then give him the inclosed note, and ask him if he doesn't think the circumstances justify me in hoping he will send it to Miss Milroy. I can't explain why I don't write directly to the major, or to Miss Milroy, instead of to you. I can only say there are considerations I am bound in honor to respect, which oblige me to act in this roundabout way. 

"I don't ask you to answer this, for I shall be on my way home, I hope, long before your letter could reach me in this out-of-the-way place. Whatever you do, don't lose a moment in going to Major Milroy. Go, on second thoughts, whether the loss of the yacht is known in England or not. 

"Yours truly, ALLAN ARMADALE
I beg a thousand pardons,' he said. 'I ought to have known better than to take a lady too literally at her word. Permit me to remind you, however, that the circumstances are too serious for anything in the nature of -- let us say, an exaggeration or a joke. You shall hear what I propose, without further preface.' He paused, and resumed his figurative use of the fly imprisoned in his hand. 'Here is Mr. Armadale. I can let him out, or keep him in, just as I please -- and he knows it. I say to him,' continued the doctor, facetiously addressing the fly, 'Give me proper security, Mr. Armadale, that no proceedings of any sort shall be taken against either this lady or myself, and I will let you out of the hollow of my hand. Refuse -- and, be the risk what it may, I will keep you in
I won't say at present,' I answered, 'whether I doubt or not. Let me make sure that I understand you first. You propose, if I am not mistaken, to shut the doors of this place on Mr. Armadale, and not to let him out again until he has agreed to the terms which it is our interest to impose on him? May I ask, in that case, how you mean to make him walk into the trap that you have set for him here?' "'I propose, ' said the doctor, with his hand on the railway guide, 'ascertaining first at what time during every evening of this month the tidal trains from Dover and Folkestone reach the London Bridge terminus. And I propose, next, posting a person whom Mr. Armadale knows, and whom you and I can trust, to wait the arrival of the trains, and to meet our man at the moment when he steps out of the railway carriage.' 

"'Have you thought, ' I inquired, 'of who the person is to be?' 

"'I have thought, ' said the doctor, taking up Armadale's letter 'of the person to whom this letter is addressed.' 

"The answer startled me. Was it possible that he and Bashwood knew one another? I put the question immediately. 

"'Until to-day I never so much as heard of the gentleman's name,' said the doctor. 'I have simply pursued the inductive process of reasoning, for which we are indebted to the immortal Bacon. How does this very important letter come into your possession? I can't insult you by supposing it to have been stolen. Consequently, it has come to you with the leave and license of the person to whom it is addressed. Consequently, that person is in your confidence. Consequently, he is the first person I think of. You see the process? Very good. Permit me a question or two, on the subject of Mr. Bashwood, before we go on any further.' 

"The doctor's questions went as straight to the point as usual. My answers informed him that Mr. Bashwood stood toward Armadale in the relation of steward; that he had received the letter at Thorpe Ambrose that morning, and had brought it straight to me by the first train; that he had not shown it, or spoken of it before leaving, to Major Milroy or to any one else; that I had not obtained this service at his hands by trusting him with my secret; that I had communicated with him in the character of Armadale's widow; that he had suppressed the letter, under those circumstances, solely in obedience to a general caution I had given him to keep his own counsel, if anything strange happened at Thorpe Ambrose, until he had first consulted me; and, lastly, that the reason why he had done as I told him in this matter, was that in this matter, and in all others, Mr. Bashwood was blindly devoted to my interests. 

"At that point in the interrogatory, the doctor's eyes began to look at me distrustfully behind the doctor's spectacles. 

"'What is the secret of this blind devotion of Mr. Bashwood's to your interests?' he asked. 

"I hesitated for a moment -- in pity to Bashwood, not in pity to myself. 'If you must know,' I answered, 'Mr. Bashwood is in love with me.' 

"'Ay! ay!' exclaimed the doctor, with an air of relief. 'I begin to understand now. Is he a young man?' 

"'He is an old man.' 

"The doctor laid himself back in his chair, and chuckled softly. 'Better and better!' he said. 'Here is the very man we want. Who so fit as Mr. Armadale's steward to meet Mr. Armadale on his return to London? And who so capable of influencing Mr. Bashwood in the proper way as the charming object of Mr. Bashwood's admiration?' 

"There could be no doubt that Bashwood was the man to serve the doctor's purpose, and that my influence was to be trusted to make him serve it. The difficulty was not here: the difficulty was in the unanswered question that I had put to the doctor a minute since. I put it to him again. 

"'Suppose Mr. Armadale's steward meets his employer at the terminus, ' I said. 'May I ask once more how Mr. Armadale is to be persuaded to come here?' 

"'Don't think me ungallant,' rejoined the doctor in his gentlest manner, 'if I ask, on my side, how are men persuaded to do nine-tenths of the foolish acts of their lives? They are persuaded by your charming sex. The weak side of every man is the woman's side of him. We have only to discover the woman's side of Mr. Armadale -- to tickle him on it gently -- and to lead him our way with a silken string. I observe here,' pursued the doctor, opening Armadale's letter, 'a reference to a certain young lady, which looks promising. Where is the note that Mr. Armadale speaks of as addressed to Miss Milroy?' 

"Instead of answering him, I started, in a sudden burst of excitement, to my feet. The instant he mentioned Miss Milroy's name all that I had heard from Bashwood of her illness, and of the cause of it, rushed back into my memory. I saw the means of decoying Armadale into the Sanitarium as plainly as I saw the doctor on the other side of the table, wondering at the extraordinary change in me. What a luxury it was to make Miss Milroy serve my interests at last! 

"'Never mind the note,' I said. 'It's burned, for fear of accidents. I can tell you all (and more) than the note could have told you. Miss Milroy cuts the knot! Miss Milroy ends the difficulty! She is privately engaged to him. She has heard the false report of his death; and she has been seriously ill at Thorpe Ambrose ever since. When Bashwood meets him at the station, the very first question he is certain to ask --' 

"'I see!' exclaimed the doctor, anticipating me. 'Mr. Bashwood has nothing to do but to help the truth with a touch of fiction. When he tells his master that the false report has reached Miss Milroy, he has only to add that the shock has affected her head, and that she is here under medical care. Perfect! perfect! We shall have him at the Sanitarium as fast as the fastest cab-horse in London can bring him to us. And mind! no risk -- no necessity for trusting other people. This is not a mad-house; this is not a licensed establishment; no doctors' certificates are necessary here! My dear lady, I congratulate you; I congratulate myself. Permit me to hand you the railway guide, with my best compliments to Mr. Bashwood, and with the page turned down for him, as an additional attention, at the right place.' 

"Remembering how long I had kept Bashwood waiting for me, I took the book at once, and wished the doctor good-evening without further ceremony. As he politely opened the door for me, he reverted, without the slightest necessity for doing so, and without a word from me to lead to it, to the outburst of virtuous alarm which had escaped him at the earlier part of our interview. 

"'I do hope, ' he said, 'that you will kindly forget and forgive my extraordinary want of tact and perception when -- in short, when I caught the fly. I positively blush at my own stupidity in putting a literal interpretation on a lady's little joke! Violence in My Sanitarium!' exclaimed the doctor, with his eyes once more fixed attentively on my face --'violence in this enlightened nineteenth century! Was there ever anything so ridiculous? Do fasten your cloak before you go out, it is so cold and raw! Shall I escort you? Shall I send my servant? Ah, you were always independent! always, if I may say so, a host in yourself! May I call to-morrow morning, and hear what you have settled with Mr. Bashwood?' 

"I said yes, and got away from him at last. In a quarter of an hour more I was back at my lodgings, and was informed by the servant that 'the elderly gentleman' was still waiting for me. 

"I have not got the heart or the patience -- I hardly know which -- to waste many words on what passed between me and Bashwood. It was so easy, so degradingly easy, to pull the strings of the poor old puppet in any way I pleased! I met none of the difficulties which I should have been obliged to meet in the case of a younger man, or of a man less infatuated with admiration for me. I left the allusions to Miss Milroy in Armadale's letter, which had naturally puzzled him, to be explained at a future time. I never even troubled myself to invent a plausible reason for wishing him to meet Armadale at the terminus, and to entrap him by a stratagem into the doctor's Sanitarium. All that I found it necessary to do was to refer to what I had written to Mr. Bashwood, on my arrival in London, and to what I had afterward said to him, when he came to answer my letter personally at the hotel. 

"'You know already, ' I said, 'that my marriage has not been a happy one. Draw your own conclusions from that; and don't press me to tell you whether the news of Mr. Armadale's rescue from the sea is, or is not, the welcome news that it ought to be to his wife!' That was enough to put his withered old face in a glow, and to set his withered old hopes growing again. I had only to add, 'If you will do what I ask you to do, no matter how incomprehensible and how mysterious my request may seem to be; and if you will accept my assurances that you shall run no risk yourself, and that you shall receive the proper explanations at the proper time, you will have such a claim on my gratitude and my regard as no man living has ever had yet!' I had only to say those words, and to point them by a look and a stolen pressure of his hand, and I had him at my feet, blindly eager to obey me. If he could have seen what I thought of myself; but that doesn't matter: he saw nothing. 

"Hours have passed since I sent him away (pledged to secrecy, possessed of his instructions, and provided with his time-table) to the hotel near the terminus, at which he is to stay till Armadale appears on the railway platform. The excitement of the earlier part of the evening has all worn off; and the dull, numbed sensation has got me again. Are my energies wearing out, I wonder, just at the time when I most want them? Or is some foreshadowing of disaster creeping over me which I don't yet understand? 

"I might be in a humor to sit here for some time longer, thinking thoughts like these, and letting them find their way into words at their own will and pleasure, if my Diary would only let me. But my idle pen has been busy enough to make its way to the end of the volume. I have reached the last morsel of space left on the last page; and whether I like it or not, I must close the book this time for good and all, when I close it to-night. 

"Good-by, my old friend and companion of many a miserable day! Having nothing else to be fond of, I half suspect myself of having been unreasonably fond of _you_. 

"What a fool I am!" THE END OF THE FOURTH BOOK.


BOOK THE LAST
Mr. Armadale might be perverse enough, at his enviable age, to recover sooner than his medical advisers might have anticipated
No news, of course
Well! well
You seem strangely depressed this morning
What are you afraid of now
The imputation of being afraid, madam
is not an imputation to cast rashly on any man -- even when he belongs to such an essentially peaceful profession as mine. I am not afraid. I am (as you more correctly put it in the first instance) strangely depressed. My nature is, as you know, naturally sanguine, and I only see to-day what but for my habitual hopefulness I might have seen, and ought to have seen, a week since
If words cost money
the luxury of talking would be rather an expensive luxury in your case
Which I might have seen, and ought to have seen
a week since. To put it plainly, I feel by no means so certain as I did that Mr. Armadale will consent, without a struggle, to the terms which it is my interest (and in a minor degree yours) to impose on him. Observe! I don't question our entrapping him successfully into the Sanitarium: I only doubt whether he will prove quite as manageable as I originally anticipated when we have got him there. Say
say that he is bold, obstinate, what you please; and that he holds out -- holds out for weeks together, for months together, as men in similar situations to his have held out before him. What follows? The risk of keeping him forcibly in concealment -- of suppressing him, if I may so express myself -- increases at compound interest, and becomes Enormous! My house is at this moment virtually ready for patients. Patients may present themselves in a week's time. Patients may communicate with Mr. Armadale, or Mr. Armadale may communicate with patients. A note may be smuggled out of the house, and may reach the Commissioners in Lunacy. Even in the case of an unlicensed establishment like mine, those gentlemen -- no! those chartered despots in a land of liberty -- have only to apply to the Lord Chancellor for an order, and to enter (by heavens, to enter My Sanitarium!) and search the house from top to bottom at a moment's notice! I don't wish to despond; I don't wish to alarm you; I don't pretend to say that the means we are taking to secure your own safety are any other than the best means at our disposal. All I ask you to do is to imagine the Commissioners in the house -- and then to conceive the consequences. The consequences
Have you anything more to say
Have you any remarks
to offer on your side
I think I understand you
I beg your pardon
What did you say
Nothing
Nothing
If you happened to catch another fly this morning
I might be capable of shocking you by another 'little joke
Hard
not to have forgiven me that unlucky blunder of mine, even yet
What else have you to say? I am waiting for you
I have a question to ask, in the first place
and a measure of necessary precaution to suggest, in the second. If you will honor me with your attention, I will put the question first
I am listening
You know that Mr. Armadale is alive
and you know that he is coming back to England. Why do you continue to wear your widow's dress
Because I am of a sanguine disposition, like you. I mean to trust to the chapter of accidents to the very last. Mr. Armadale may die yet, on his way home
And suppose he gets home alive -- what then
Then there is another chance still left
What is it, pray
He may die in your Sanitarium
Madam
Wait! you spoke of the chapter of accidents
Yes! yes! of course. I understand you this time. Even the healing art is at the mercy of accidents; even such a Sanitarium as mine is liable to be surprised by Death. Just so! just so
There _is_ the chapter of accidents, I admit -- if you choose to trust to it. Mind! I say emphatically, _if_ you choose to trust to it
Go on
you haven't done yet
True
Having put my question, I have my measure of precaution to impress on you next. You will see, my dear madam, that I am not disposed to trust to the chapter of accidents on my side. Reflection has convinced me that you and I are not (logically speaking) so conveniently situated as we might be in case of emergency. Cabs are, as yet, rare in this rapidly improving neighborhood. I am twenty minutes' walk from you; you are twenty minutes' walk from me. I know nothing of Mr. Armadale's character; you know it well. It might be necessary -- vitally necessary -- to appeal to your superior knowledge of him at a moment's notice. And how am I to do that unless we are within easy reach of each other, under the same roof? In both our interests, I beg to invite you, my dear madam, to become for a limited period an inmate of My Sanitarium
I understand you
I beg your pardon
An inmate of your Sanitarium
You consult appearances in everything else; do you propose to consult appearances in receiving me into your house
Most assuredly
I am surprised at your asking me the question! Did you ever know a man of any eminence in my profession who set appearances at defiance? If you honor me by accepting my invitation, you enter My Sanitarium in the most unimpeachable of all possible characters -- in the character of a Patient
When do you want my answer
Can you decide to-day
To-morrow
Yes. Have you anything more to say
Nothing more
Leave me, then. _I_ don't keep up appearances. I wish to be alone, and I say so. Good-morning
Oh, the sex! the sex
So delightfully impulsive! so charmingly reckless of what they say or how they say it! 'Oh, woman, in our hours of ease, uncertain, coy, and hard to please!' There! there! there! Good-morning
Armadale himself drove me to it the first time
Manuel drove me to it the second time.-- You cowardly scoundrel! shall I let _you_ drive me to it for the third time, and the last
I'll have more time
No man alive shall hurry me faster than I like
I want another day
The time is getting on
For all we know to the contrary, Mr. Armadale may be here to-night
I want another day
Granted
Don't be too loud -- the servants may hear you. Mind
I depend on your honor not to press me for any further delay
You had better depend on my despair
Quite right, my dear
I remember where your despair led you in past times; and I think I may trust it to lead you the same way now
Can that be Mr. Bashwood
I see I have surprised you
You are looking, I suppose, for somebody else? Have you heard from Allan? Is he on his way home again already
I know nothing about Mr. Armadale -- oh dear, no, sir, I know nothing about Mr. Armadale
Welcome back to England, sir
I didn't know you had been abroad. It's so long since we have had the pleasure -- since I have had the pleasure. Have you enjoyed yourself, sir, in foreign parts? Such different manners from ours -- yes, yes, yes -- such different manners from ours! Do you make a long stay in England, now you have come back
I hardly know
I have been obliged to alter my plans, and to come to England unexpectedly
A serious anxiety has brought me back. I can't say what my plans will be until that anxiety is set at rest
I'm sorry, sir -- I'm sure I'm very sorry. If I could be of any use
I am afraid you can be of no use, Mr. Bashwood -- but I am obliged to you for your offer, all the same
Suppose she should _not_ be ill? Suppose some misfortune should have happened
If she has left her mother, some trace of her _might_ be found by inquiring at Thorpe Ambrose
A lady, sir
Are you looking for a lady
I am looking
for my wife
Married, sir
Married since I last had the pleasure of seeing you! Might I take the liberty of asking
You knew the lady in former times
I have married Miss Gwilt
What's the matter
What is there so very startling
in Miss Gwilt's being my wife
_Your_ wife
Mrs. Armadale
You referred to my wife just now
and you spoke of _Mrs. Armadale_ in the same breath. What do you mean by that
I ask you again
what do you mean by it
Nothing, sir! I give you my word of honor, I meant nothing
I only meant to say, sir
that Mr. Armadale would be surprised
You said _Mrs._ Armadale
No, sir -- on my word of honor, on my sacred word of honor, you are mistaken -- you are, indeed! I said _Mr._ Armadale -- how could I say anything else? Please to let me go, sir -- I'm pressed for time. I do assure you I'm dreadfully pressed for time
I beg your pardon
I have no doubt you are right. Pray attribute my rudeness to over-anxiety and over-fatigue. I wish you good-evening
Double your fare, whatever it is
if you keep the cab before you in view, and follow it wherever it goes
Hampstead
Why did you say 'Hampstead
Because the man before me said 'Hampstead,' sir
Right in front of us
Has the gentleman whom you drove from the station gone into that house
Yes, sir
Did you hear him inquire for anybody when the door was opened
He asked for a lady, sir. Mrs
It wasn't a common name, sir; I should know it again if I heard it
Was it 'Midwinter
No, sir. "Armadale
That's it, sir. Mrs. Armadale
Are you sure it was 'Mrs.' and not 'Mr
Is
Mrs. Armadale
is your mistress at home
Yes, sir
There is some mistake
I wished to see
Mrs. Armadale
Yes
Show the gentleman upstairs, Jenny
Any name, sir
No name
What does that mean
Mr. Midwinter
our acquaintance hardly entitles you to speak to me in that manner
She calls me 'Mr. Midwinter
She speaks of 'our acquaintance
I once did you a service
and you once told me you were not an ungrateful man. Are you grateful enough to answer me if I ask you something
I see you looking at me
Is there some change in me that I am not conscious of myself? Am I seeing things that you don't see? Am I hearing words that you don't hear? Am I looking or speaking like a man out of his senses
Is that woman
the woman whom you once knew, whose name was Miss Gwilt
You compel me to repeat
that you are presuming on our acquaintance, and that you are forgetting what is due to me
Are you, or are you not, My Wife
I am _not_ your wife
Go in there
For God's sake, be quick! He'll kill you
_Let_ him kill me
Go for a doctor
and keep the people of the house away till he comes
Is he dead
It is a fainting fit
nothing more
Are you going to wait here till he recovers
Is the cab that brought you here from the railway still at the door
Yes
Drive at once to the gates of the Sanitarium, and wait there till I join you
The gentleman is coming to, ma'am
He has just breathed again
Where is she
It is impossible for me to remain here to-night, after what has happened. I will return to-morrow to take away my luggage, and to pay what I owe you
Where is she
Gone, sir
I don't believe it
If you know her handwriting, sir
perhaps you may believe _that_
I beg your pardon, ma'am
I beg your pardon, with all my heart
I am afraid there is some dreadful trouble, sir, at the bottom of all this
Do you wish me to give any message to the lady when she comes back
I will bring my own message to-morrow
I must see her before she leaves your house
Can I see you home
You had better not walk, if it is far. You mustn't overexert yourself; you mustn't catch a chill this cold night
I have been used to hard walking and cold nights, sir
and I am not easily worn out, even when I look so broken as I do now. If you will tell me the nearest way out of these streets, I think the quiet of the country and the quiet of the night will help me. I have something serious to do to-morrow
and I can't rest or sleep till I have thought over it to-night
Oh, for the old life
I never knew till now how happy the old life was
She has denied her husband to-night
She shall know her master to-morrow
Think what you like of me
but don't speak to me to-night. Drive back to your hotel as if nothing had happened. Meet the tidal train to-morrow as usual, and come to me afterward at the Sanitarium. Go without a word, and I shall believe there is one man in the world who really loves me. Stay and ask questions, and I shall bid you good-by at once and forever
Shivering again
Who would have thought I had so much feeling left in me
Mercy on me
What does this mean
It means
that I have decided to-night instead of deciding to-morrow. You, who know women so well, ought to know that they act on impulse. I am here on an impulse. Take me or leave me, just as you like
Take you or leave you
My dear lady, what a dreadful way of putting it! Your room shall be got ready instantly! Where is your luggage? Will you let me send for it? No? You can do without your luggage tonight? What admirable fortitude! You will fetch it yourself to-morrow? What extraordinary independence! Do take off your bonnet. Do draw in to the fire! What can I offer you
Offer me the strongest sleeping draught you ever made in your life
And leave me alone till the time comes to take it. I shall be your patient in earnest
I shall be the maddest of the mad if you irritate me to-night
Sit down in that dark corner
Not a soul shall disturb you. In half an hour you will find your room ready, and your sleeping draught on the table
Good heavens, what business has she with a conscience, after such a life as hers has been
Head Nurse
Wanted immediately, Benjamin
A lady patient -- Mrs. Armadale, Room No. 1, second floor. Ah, dear, dear
an anxious case, Benjamin -- an anxious case
Have you done with the laudanum? Put it back, and lock the cabinet, and give me the key. Is the draught ready? Label it, 'To be taken at bedtime,' and give it to the nurse, Benjamin -- give it to the nurse
to view the Sanitarium, between the hours of two and four P.M
December 10th
I think it will do
I think it will do
The lady has ordered me to call her to-morrow at seven o'clock, sir
She means to fetch her luggage herself, and she wants to have a cab at the door as soon as she is dressed. What am I to do
Do what the lady tells you
She may be safely trusted to return to the Sanitarium
Why waste so much energy
Why be in such a hurry, my dear lady, when you had all the morning before you
Mere restlessness
The longer I live, the more impatient I get
She has made up her mind at last
I may say to her this morning what I couldn't say to her last night
Now you have got your luggage
permit me to suggest putting that cap away, and wearing another gown
Why
Do you remember what you told me a day or two since
You said there was a chance of Mr. Armadale's dying in my Sanitarium
I will say it again, if you like
A more unlikely chance
it is hardly possible to imagine! But as long as it is a chance at all, it is worth considering. Say, then, that he dies -- dies suddenly and unexpectedly, and makes a Coroner's Inquest necessary in the house. What is our course in that case? Our course is to preserve the characters to which we have committed ourselves -- you as his widow, and I as the witness of your marriage -- and, _in_ those characters, to court the fullest inquiry. In the entirely improbable event of his dying just when we want him to die, my idea -- I might even say, my resolution -- is to admit that we knew of his resurrection from the sea; and to acknowledge that we instructed Mr. Bashwood to entrap him into this house, by means of a false statement about Miss Milroy. When the inevitable questions follow, I propose to assert that he exhibited symptoms of mental alienation shortly after your marriage; that his delusion consisted in denying that you were his wife, and in declaring that he was engaged to be married to Miss Milroy; that you were in such terror of him on this account, when you heard he was alive and coming back, as to be in a state of nervous agitation that required my care; that at your request, and to calm that nervous agitation, I saw him professionally, and got him quietly into the house by a humoring of his delusion, perfectly justifiable in such a case; and, lastly, that I can certify his brain to have been affected by one of those mysterious disorders, eminently incurable, eminently fatal, in relation to which medical science is still in the dark. Such a course as this (in the remotely possible event which we are now supposing) would be, in your interests and mine, unquestionably the right course to take; and such a dress as _that_ is, just as certainly, under existing circumstances, the wrong dress to wear
Shall I take it off at once
Anytime before two o'clock to-day will do
Why before two
Because this is one of my 'Visitors' Days,' And the visitors' time is from two to four
What have I to do with your visitors
Simply this. I think it important that perfectly respectable and perfectly disinterested witnesses should see you, in my house, in the character of a lady who has come to consult me
Your motive seems rather far-fetched, Is it the only motive you have in the matter
My dear, dear lady
have I any concealments from _you_? Surely, you ought to know me better than that
Yes
It's dull enough of me not to understand you by this time. Send word upstairs when I am wanted
My First Inmate
This lady only arrived late last night; and she takes the present opportunity (the only one my morning's engagements have allowed me to give her) of going over the Sanitarium.-- Allow me, ma'am
Shattered nerves -- domestic anxiety
Sweet woman! sad case
The grounds, ladies and gentlemen
are, as you have seen, in a partially unfinished condition. Under any circumstances, I should lay little stress on the grounds, having Hampstead Heath so near at hand, and carriage exercise and horse exercise being parts of my System. In a lesser degree, it is also necessary for me to ask your indulgence for the basement floor, on which we now stand. The waiting-room and study on that side, and the Dispensary on the other (to which I shall presently ask your attention), are completed. But the large drawing-room is still in the decorator's hands. In that room (when the walls are dry -- not a moment before) my inmates will assemble for cheerful society. Nothing will be spared that can improve, elevate, and adorn life at these happy little gatherings. Every evening, for example, there will be music for those who like it
Sacred music, of course, ma'am
Handel on Sunday evening -- and Haydn occasionally, when not too cheerful. But, as I was about to say, music is not the only entertainment offered to my nervous inmates. Amusing reading is provided for those who prefer books
Only such novels as I have selected and perused myself, in the first instance
Nothing painful, ma'am! There may be plenty that is painful in real life; but for that very reason, we don't want it in books. The English novelist who enters my house (no foreign novelist will be admitted) must understand his art as the healthy-minded English reader understands it in our time. He must know that our purer modern taste, our higher modern morality, limits him to doing exactly two things for us, when he writes us a book. All we want of him is -- occasionally to make us laugh; and invariably to make us comfortable
Numbers one to four, ladies and gentlemen
include the dormitories of the attendants. Numbers four to eight are rooms intended for the accommodation of the poorer class of patients, whom I receive on terms which simply cover my expenditure -- nothing more. In the cases of these poorer persons among my suffering fellow creatures, personal piety and the recommendation of two clergymen are indispensable to admission. Those are the only conditions I make; but those I insist on. Pray observe that the rooms are all ventilated, and the bedsteads all iron and kindly notice, as we descend again to the second floor, that there is a door shutting off all communication between the second story and the top story when necessary. The rooms on the second floor, which we have now reached, are (with the exception of my own room) entirely devoted to the reception of lady-inmates -- experience having convinced me that the greater sensitiveness of the female constitution necessitates the higher position of the sleeping apartment, with a view to the greater purity and freer circulation of the air. Here the ladies are established immediately under my care, while my assistant- physician (whom I expect to arrive in a week's time) looks after the gentlemen on the floor beneath. Observe, again, as we descend to this lower, or first floor, a second door, closing all communication at night between the two stories to every one but the assistant physician and myself. And now that we have reached the gentleman's part of the house, and that you have observed for yourselves the regulations of the establishment, permit me to introduce you to a specimen of my system of treatment next. I can exemplify it practically, by introducing you to a room fitted up, under my own direction, for the accommodation of the most complicated cases of nervous suffering and nervous delusion that can come under my care
Look in, ladies and gentlemen
and, if you see anything remarkable, pray mention it
A word, ladies and gentlemen
literally a word, on nervous derangement first. What is the process of treatment, when, let us say, mental anxiety has broken you down, and you apply to your doctor? He sees you, hears you, and gives you two prescriptions. One is written on paper, and made up at the chemist's. The other is administered by word of mouth, at the propitious moment when the fee is ready; and consists in a general recommendation to you to keep your mind easy. That excellent advice given, your doctor leaves you to spare yourself all earthly annoyances by your own unaided efforts, until he calls again. Here my System steps in and helps you! When _I_ see the necessity of keeping your mind easy, I take the bull by the horns and do it for you. I place you in a sphere of action in which the ten thousand trifles which must, and do, irritate nervous people at home are expressly considered and provided against. I throw up impregnable moral intrenchments between Worry and You. Find a door banging in _this_ house, if you can! Catch a servant in _this_ house rattling the tea-things when he takes away the tray! Discover barking dogs, crowing cocks, hammering workmen, screeching children _here_ -- and I engage to close My Sanitarium to-morrow! Are these nuisances laughing matters to nervous people? Ask them! Can they escape these nuisances at home? Ask them! Will ten minutes' irritation from a barking dog or a screeching child undo every atom of good done to a nervous sufferer by a month's medical treatment? There isn't a competent doctor in England who will venture to deny it! On those plain grounds my System is based. I assert the medical treatment of nervous suffering to be entirely subsidiary to the moral treatment of it. That moral treatment of it you find here. That moral treatment, sedulously pursued throughout the day, follows the sufferer into his room at night; and soothes, helps and cures him, without his own knowledge -- you shall see how
Say, ladies and gentlemen
that my patient has just come in. His mind is one mass of nervous fancies and caprices, which his friends (with the best possible intentions) have been ignorantly irritating at home. They have been afraid of him, for instance, at night. They have forced him to have somebody to sleep in the room with him, or they have forbidden him, in case of accidents, to lock his door. He comes to me the first night, and says: 'Mind, I won't have anybody in my room!'--'Certainly not!'--'I insist on locking my door.'--'By all means!' In he goes, and locks his door; and there he is, soothed and quieted, predisposed to confidence, predisposed to sleep, by having his own way. 'This is all very well,' you may say; 'but suppose something happens, suppose he has a fit in the night, what then?' You shall see! Hallo, my young friend
Let's have a game. You shall be the poor sick man, and I'll be the good doctor. Go into that room and lock the door. There's a brave boy! Have you locked it? Very good! Do you think I can't get at you if I like? I wait till you're asleep -- I press this little white button, hidden here in the stencilled pattern of the outer wall -- the mortise of the lock inside falls back silently against the door-post -- and I walk into the room whenever I like. The same plan is pursued with the window. My capricious patient won't open it at night, when he ought. I humor him again. 'Shut it, dear sir, by all means!' As soon as he is asleep, I pull the black handle hidden here, in the corner of the wall. The window of the room inside noiselessly opens, as you see. Say the patient's caprice is the other way -- he persists in opening the window when he ought to shut it. Let him! by all means, let him! I pull a second handle when he is snug in his bed, and the window noiselessly closes in a moment. Nothing to irritate him, ladies and gentlemen -- absolutely nothing to irritate him! But I haven't done with him yet. Epidemic disease, in spite of all my precautions, may enter this Sanitarium, and may render the purifying of the sick-room necessary. Or the patient's case may be complicated by other than nervous malady -- say, for instance, asthmatic difficulty of breathing. In the one case, fumigation is necessary; in the other, additional oxygen in the air will give relief. The epidemic nervous patient says, 'I won't be smoked under my own nose!' The asthmatic nervous patient gasps with terror at the idea of a chemical explosion in his room. I noiselessly fumigate one of them; I noiselessly oxygenize the other, by means of a simple Apparatus fixed outside in the corner here. It is protected by this wooden casing; it is locked with my own key; and it communicates by means of a tube with the interior of the room. Look at it
I might introduce you to all sorts of other contrivances of the same kind
but it would be only the same thing over and over again. A nervous patient who always has his own way is a nervous patient who is never worried; and a nervous patient who is never worried is a nervous patient cured. There it is in a nutshell! Come and see the Dispensary, ladies; the Dispensary and the kitchen next
Armadale will die this time
The doctor will kill him, by my hands
There is nothing to interest you inside
Nothing but rows of little shabby bottles containing the poisons used in medicine which I keep under lock and key. Come to the kitchen, ladies, and honor me with your advice on domestic matters below stairs
Wait here
Quite an intellectual treat
And what a very superior man
Doctor
I am as curious as the other ladies about that pretty cabinet of yours. Now they are all gone, won't you show the inside of it to _me_
The old story
Blue-Beard's locked chamber, and female curiosity! (Don't go, Benjamin, don't go.) My dear lady, what interest can you possibly have in looking at a medical bottle, simply because it happens to be a bottle of poison
I have the interest of looking at it
and of thinking, if it got into some people's hands, of the terrible things it might do
Curious, Benjamin
the romantic view taken of these drugs of ours by the unscientific mind! My dear lady
if _that_ is the interest you attach to looking at poisons, you needn't ask me to unlock my cabinet -- you need only look about you round the shelves of this room. There are all sorts of medical liquids and substances in those bottles -- most innocent, most useful in themselves -- which, in combination with other substances and other liquids, become poisons as terrible and as deadly as any that I have in my cabinet under lock and key
Show me one
Do you see that bottle
that plump, round, comfortable-looking bottle? Never mind the name of what is beside it; let us stick to the bottle, and distinguish it, if you like, by giving it a name of our own. Suppose we call it 'our Stout Friend'? Very good. Our Stout Friend, by himself, is a most harmless and useful medicine. He is freely dispensed every day to tens of thousands of patients all over the civilized world. He has made no romantic appearances in courts of law; he has excited no breathless interest in novels; he has played no terrifying part on the stage. There he is, an innocent, inoffensive creature, who troubles nobody with the responsibility of locking him up! _But_ bring him into contact with something else -- introduce him to the acquaintance of a certain common mineral substance, of a universally accessible kind, broken into fragments; provide yourself with (say) six doses of our Stout Friend, and pour those doses consecutively on the fragments I have mentioned, at intervals of not less than five minutes. Quantities of little bubbles will rise at every pouring; collect the gas in those bubbles, and convey it into a closed chamber -- and let Samson himself be in that closed chamber; our stout Friend will kill him in half an hour! Will kill him slowly, without his seeing anything, without his smelling anything, without his feeling anything but sleepiness. Will kill him, and tell the whole College of Surgeons nothing, if they examine him after death, but that he died of apoplexy or congestion of the lungs! What do you think of _that_, my dear lady, in the way of mystery and romance? Is our harmless Stout Friend as interesting _now_ as if he rejoiced in the terrible popular fame of the Arsenic and the Strychnine which I keep locked up there? Don't suppose I am exaggerating! Don't suppose I'm inventing a story to put you off with, as the children say. Ask Benjamin there
Ask Benjamin
if six doses from that bottle, at intervals of five minutes each, would not, under the conditions I have stated, produce the results I have described
The doctor is quite right, ma'am
the production of the gas, extended over half an hour, would be quite gradual enough. And
the volume of the gas would be sufficient at the end of the time -- if I am not mistaken, sir?-- to be fatal to any person entering the room in less than five minutes
Unquestionably, Benjamin
But I think we have had enough of chemistry for the present
With every desire, my dear lady, to gratify every passing wish you may form, I venture to propose trying a more cheerful subject. Suppose we leave the Dispensary, before it suggests any more inquiries to that active mind of yours? No? You want to see an experiment? You want to see how the little bubbles are made? Well, well! there is no harm in that. We will let Mrs. Armadale see the bubbles
Try if you can find a few of those fragments that we want, Benjamin. I dare say the workmen (slovenly fellows!) have left something of the sort about the house or the grounds
Bless my soul
what's this? A key? A duplicate key, as I'm alive, of my fumigating apparatus upstairs! Oh dear, dear, how careless I get
I hadn't the least idea that I possessed this second key. I should never have missed it. I do assure you I should never have missed it if anybody had taken it out of the drawer
Thank you, Benjamin
Kindly cover them with water, while I get the bottle down
Oh, my fingers and thumbs
what in the world do you mean by playing me such a wicked trick as that? Well, well, well -- it can't be helped. Have we got any more of it, Benjamin
Not a drop, sir
Not a drop
My dear madam, what excuses can I offer you? My clumsiness has made our little experiment impossible for to-day. Remind me to order some more to-morrow, Benjamin, and don't think of troubling yourself to put that mess to rights. I'll send the man here to mop it all up. Our Stout Friend is harmless enough now, my dear lady -- in combination with a boarded floor and a coming mop! I'm so sorry; I really am so sorry to have disappointed you
Have you done with me for the present
Oh, dear, dear, what a way of putting it
Dinner at six
I'm not in prison
I've got the use of my limbs! I can go -- no matter where, as long as I am out of this house
No
the gulf is dug between us -- the worst is done
What time is the train due to-night
At ten
What room is Mr. Armadale to have when he comes
What room would you like him to have
Number Four
Number Four let it be
Provided, of course, that Number Four is unoccupied at the time
Thank God for this
I don't ask how you came here: it's enough for me that you have come. Miserable news has met me already, Midwinter. Nobody but you can comfort me, and help me to bear it
Was he waiting your arrival here to tell you this about Miss Milroy
Yes
He has been kindly waiting here, night after night, to meet me, and break the news to me
How have you become acquainted with this sad news
Through the major, of course
Who is the doctor who has the care of Miss Milroy
He is a man with a foreign name
He keeps a Sanitarium near Hampstead. What did you say the place was called, Mr. Bashwood
Fairweather Vale, sir
Is the major in Norfolk
or is he near his daughter in London
In Norfolk
I object, if you please, to be cross-examined, sir. I know what I have told Mr. Armadale, and I know no more
Don't think me impatient
but it's getting late; it's a long way to Hampstead. I'm afraid the Sanitarium will be shut up
You are not going to the Sanitarium to-night
If you were as fond of her as I am
you would take no rest, you could get no sleep, till you had seen the doctor, and heard the best and the worst he had to tell you. Poor dear little soul! who knows, if she could only see me alive and well
Stand back
I want to speak to Mr. Armadale
Allan
I have reasons
I have reasons
for advising you not to believe too readily what Mr. Bashwood may say. Don't tell him this, but take the warning
It was you who always liked Mr. Bashwood
It was you who trusted him, when he first came to the great house
Perhaps I was wrong, Allan, and perhaps you were right. Will you only wait till we can telegraph to Major Milroy and get his answer? Will you only wait over the night
I shall go mad if I wait over the night
You have made me more anxious than I was before. If I am not to speak about it to Bashwood, I must and will go to the Sanitarium, and find out whether she is or is not there, from the doctor himself
Will you let me go with you
You dear, good fellow
It was the very thing I was going to beg of you myself
Mr. Armadale is going to the Sanitarium
and I mean to accompany him. Get a cab and come with us
It's not my fault
They met together, and there was no parting them
Wait a little
I know all about it
Do you wish to speak to me
Don't drive me to despair
Don't look at me in that way, now I have found it out
What have you found out
Mr. Armadale is not the man who took you away from me
Mr. Midwinter is the man. I found it out in your face yesterday. I see it in your face now. Why did you sign your name 'Armadale' when you wrote to me? Why do you call yourself 'Mrs. Armadale' still
I wish I had pitied you when we first met
as I pity you now
You have waited already at my request
Wait till to-morrow, and you will know all. If you trust nothing else that I have told you, you may trust what I tell you now. _It will end to-night_
It will end to-night
Don't let me disturb you, sir
I have nothing to say to Mrs. Armadale but what you or anybody may hear
It will end to-night
You have heard, no doubt
that Mr. Armadale has arrived. Permit me to add, my dear lady, that there is not the least reason for any nervous agitation on your part. He has been carefully humored, and he is as quiet and manageable as his best friends could wish. I have informed him that it is impossible to allow him an interview with the young lady to-night; but that he may count on seeing her (with the proper precautions) at the earliest propitious hour, after she is awake to-morrow morning. As there is no hotel near, and as the propitious hour may occur at a moment's notice, it was clearly incumbent on me, under the peculiar circumstances, to offer him the hospitality of the Sanitarium. He has accepted it with the utmost gratitude; and has thanked me in a most gentlemanly and touching manner for the pains I have taken to set his mind at ease. Perfectly gratifying, perfectly satisfactory, so far! But there has been a little hitch -- now happily got over --- which I think it right to mention to you before we all retire for the night
Pardon me
I thought I heard something downstairs. With regard to the little hitch that I adverted to just now, permit me to inform you that Mr. Armadale has brought a friend here with him, who bears the strange name of Midwinter. Do you know the gentleman at all
I know him to be an old friend of Mr. Armadale's
Does he
Does he, too, stay here to-night
Mr. Midwinter is a person of coarse manners and suspicious temper
He was rude enough to insist on staying here as soon as Mr. Armadale had accepted my invitation
Did you permit him to have his way
In your place, I should have shown him the door
If I had only had my own feelings to consult
I don't disguise from you that I should (as you say) have shown Mr. Midwinter the door. But on appealing to Mr. Armadale, I found he was himself anxious not to be parted from his friend. Under those circumstances, but one alternative was left -- the alternative of humoring him again. The responsibility of thwarting him -- to say nothing
of my natural apprehension, with such a temper as his friend's, of a scandal and disturbance in the house -- was not to be thought of for a moment. Mr. Midwinter accordingly remains here for the night; and occupies (I ought to say, insists on occupying) the next room to Mr. Armadale. Advise me, my dear madam, in this emergency
What rooms shall we put them in, on the first floor
Put Mr. Armadale in Number Four
And his friend next to him, in Number Three
Well! well! well! perhaps they _are_ the most comfortable rooms. I'll give my orders immediately. Don't hurry away, Mr. Bashwood
I have left the assistant physician's key on the windowsill yonder, and Mrs. Armadale can let you out at the staircase door whenever she pleases. Don't sit up late, Mrs. Armadale! Yours is a nervous system that requires plenty of sleep. 'Tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep.' Grand line! God bless you -- good-night
Am I to go now
No. You are to stay. I said you should know all if you waited till the morning. Wait here
The doctor
I thought the doctor said
The doctor will interfere with nothing that I do in this house to-night. I tell you to stay. There are empty rooms on the floor above this. Take one of them
May I ask
Ask nothing. I want you
Will you please to tell me
I will tell you nothing till the night is over and the morning has come
Is it something dreadful
Too dreadful to tell me
Go
You do quite right to distrust me -- you do quite right to follow me no further in the dark. Go before the house is shut up. I can do without you
Forget me, and forgive me
We meet no more
I can't leave you
What must I do
Come and see
Notice that room
Wait here
while I go back upstairs; and lock yourself in, if you like. You will be in the dark, but the gas will be burning in the corridor. Keep at the grating, and make sure that Mr. Armadale goes into the room I have just pointed out to you, and that he doesn't leave it afterward. If you lose sight of the room for a single moment before I come back, you will repent it to the end of your life. If you do as I tell you, you shall see me to-morrow, and claim your own reward. Quick with your answer! Is it Yes or No
Shall I break the door in
and make sure? No; it would be giving the doctor an excuse for turning me out of the house
Allan, are you in bed
No
come in
Wait a minute
If there is anybody watching us in there
let him watch us through this
You know what poor nerves I have
and what a wretched sleeper I am at the best of times. I can't sleep to-night. The window in my room rattles every time the wind blows. I wish it was as fast as your window here
My dear fellow
I don't mind a rattling window. Let's change rooms. Nonsense! Why should you make excuses to _me_? Don't I know how easily trifles upset those excitable nerves of yours? Now the doctor has quieted my mind about my poor little Neelie, I begin to feel the journey; and I'll answer for sleeping anywhere till to-morrow comes
We must be quick about it
They haven't left me much candle to go to bed by
Be very quiet, Allan
We mustn't disturb the house at this time of night
Yes, yes
Good-night; I hope you'll sleep as well as I shall
Good-night
I can trust to one thing
I can trust myself to keep awake
Let yourself out
and follow me
Was Mr. Armadale shown into Number Four
Answer me in words. Has Mr. Armadale left the room since
No
Have you never lost sight of Number Four since I left you
_Never_
You seem to be overexcited
The night has been too much for you. Go upstairs, and rest. You will find the door of one of the rooms left open. That is the room you are to occupy. Good-night
Don't
oh, don't, don't, don't go downstairs to-night
You shall see me to-morrow
Not a word more now
The night will go quickly
I shall dream of her till the morning comes
Think if there is no other way
No
The one chance left is to go through with it to the end. He will leave the thing undone which he has come here to do; he will leave the words unspoken which he has come here to say -- when he knows that the act may make me a public scandal, and that the words may send me to the scaffold
I shall be your widow
in half an hour
Armadale hates cats
Come up and see Armadale killed
I might go in there
Has he left the key
All the doors open softly in this house
there's no fear of my waking him
It might have been hard, love
You have made it easy now
Ah
I had forgotten my best friend -- I had forgotten that there is more to pour in yet
Five minutes more
Shall I write him a farewell word
Shall I tell him the truth before I leave him forever
I am worse than the worst you can think of me. You have saved Armadale by changing rooms with him to-night; and you have saved him from me. You can guess now whose widow I should have claimed to be, if you had not preserved his life; and you will know what a wretch you married when you married the woman who writes these lines. Still, I had some innocent moments, and then I loved you dearly. Forget me, my darling, in the love of a better woman than I am. I might, perhaps, have been that better woman myself, if I had not lived a miserable life before you met with me. It matters little now. The one atonement I can make for all the wrong I have done you is the atonement of my death. It is not hard for me to die, now I know you will live. Even my wickedness has one merit -- it has not prospered. I have never been a happy woman
Live, my angel, live
All your life is before you -- a happy life, and an honored life, if you are freed from _me_
It is no merit to have loved you
You are one of the men whom women all like
Oh, God, forgive me
Oh, Christ, bear witness that I have suffered
Good-by
POSTSCRIPT.-- I think it likely that the account you mention in the French papers, of a fatal quarrel among some foreign sailors in one of the Lipari Islands, and of the death of their captain, among others, may really have been a quarrel among the scoundrels who robbed Mr. Armadale and scuttled his yacht. _Those_ fellows, luckily for society, can't always keep up appearances; and, in their case, Rogues and Retribution do occasionally come into collision with each other
We have had enough, and more than enough, of _my_ future
Let's say something now, Midwinter, about yours. You have promised me, I know, that, if you take to literature, it shan't part us, and that, if you go on a sea-voyage, you will remember, when you come back, that my house is your home. But this is the last chance we have of being together in our old way; and I own I should like to know
You would like to know, Allan
that I shall not bring an aching heart with me to your wedding day? If you will let me go back for a moment to the past, I think I can satisfy you
Why distress yourself
why go back to the past
For two reasons, Allan. I ought to have thanked you long since for the silence you have observed, for my sake, on a matter that must have seemed very strange to you. You know what the name is which appears on the register of my marriage, and yet you have forborne to speak of it, from the fear of distressing me. Before you enter on your new life, let us come to a first and last understanding about this. I ask you -- as one more kindness to me -- to accept my assurance (strange as the thing may seem to you) that I am blameless in this matter; and I entreat you to believe that the reasons I have for leaving it unexplained are reasons which, if Mr. Brock was living, Mr. Brock himself would approve
One word more
a word which will take us, this time, from past to future. It has been said, and truly said, that out of Evil may come Good. Out of the horror and the misery of that night you know of has come the silencing of a doubt which once made my life miserable with groundless anxiety about you and about myself. No clouds raised by my superstition will ever come between us again. I can't honestly tell you that I am more willing now than I was when we were in the Isle of Man to take what is called the rational view of your Dream. Though I know what extraordinary coincidences are perpetually happening in the experience of all of us, still I cannot accept coincidences as explaining the fulfillment of the Visions which our own eyes have seen. All I can sincerely say for myself is, what I think it will satisfy you to know, that I have learned to view the purpose of the Dream with a new mind. I once believed that it was sent to rouse your distrust of the friendless man whom you had taken as a brother to your heart. I now _know_ that it came to you as a timely warning to take him closer still. Does this help to satisfy you that I, too, am standing hopefully on the brink of a new life, and that while we live, brother, your love and mine will never be divided again
I have heard all I ever want to hear about the past
and I know what I most wanted to know about the future. Everybody says, Midwinter, you have a career before you, and I believe that everybody is right. Who knows what great things may happen before you and I are many years older
Who _need_ know
Happen what may, God is all-merciful, God is all-wise. In those words your dear old friend once wrote to me. In that faith I can look back without murmuring at the years that are past, and can look on without doubting to the years that are to come
</text>
