<text>
Penang lawyer
To James Mortimer, M.R.C.S., from his friends of the C.C.H
1884
Well, Watson, what do you make of it
How did you know what I was doing? I believe you have eyes in the back of your head
I have, at least, a well-polished, silver-plated coffee-pot in front of me
But, tell me, Watson, what do you make of our visitor's stick? Since we have been so unfortunate as to miss him and have no notion of his errand, this accidental souvenir becomes of importance. Let me hear you reconstruct the man by an examination of it
I think
that Dr. Mortimer is a successful, elderly medical man, well-esteemed since those who know him give him this mark of their appreciation
Good
Excellent
I think also that the probability is in favour of his being a country practitioner who does a great deal of his visiting on foot
Why so
Because this stick, though originally a very handsome one has been so knocked about that I can hardly imagine a town practitioner carrying it. The thick-iron ferrule is worn down, so it is evident that he has done a great amount of walking with it
Perfectly sound
And then again, there is the 'friends of the C.C.H.' I should guess that to be the Something Hunt, the local hunt to whose members he has possibly given some surgical assistance, and which has made him a small presentation in return
Really, Watson, you excel yourself
I am bound to say that in all the accounts which you have been so good as to give of my own small achievements you have habitually underrated your own abilities. It may be that you are not yourself luminous, but you are a conductor of light. Some people without possessing genius have a remarkable power of stimulating it. I confess, my dear fellow, that I am very much in your debt
Interesting, though elementary
There are certainly one or two indications upon the stick. It gives us the basis for several deductions
Has anything escaped me
I trust that there is nothing of consequence which I have overlooked
I am afraid, my dear Watson, that most of your conclusions were erroneous. When I said that you stimulated me I meant, to be frank, that in noting your fallacies I was occasionally guided towards the truth. Not that you are entirely wrong in this instance. The man is certainly a country practitioner. And he walks a good deal
Then I was right
To that extent
But that was all
No, no, my dear Watson, not all -- by no means all. I would suggest, for example, that a presentation to a doctor is more likely to come from a hospital than from a hunt, and that when the initials 'C.C.' are placed before that hospital the words 'Charing Cross' very naturally suggest themselves
You may be right
The probability lies in that direction. And if we take this as a working hypothesis we have a fresh basis from which to start our construction of this unknown visitor
Well, then, supposing that 'C.C.H.' does stand for 'Charing Cross Hospital,' what further inferences may we draw
Do none suggest themselves? You know my methods. Apply them
I can only think of the obvious conclusion that the man has practised in town before going to the country
I think that we might venture a little farther than this. Look at it in this light. On what occasion would it be most probable that such a presentation would be made? When would his friends unite to give him a pledge of their good will? Obviously at the moment when Dr. Mortimer withdrew from the service of the hospital in order to start a practice for himself. We know there has been a presentation. We believe there has been a change from a town hospital to a country practice. Is it, then, stretching our inference too far to say that the presentation was on the occasion of the change
It certainly seems probable
Now, you will observe that he could not have been on the staff of the hospital, since only a man well-established in a London practice could hold such a position, and such a one would not drift into the country. What was he, then? If he was in the hospital and yet not on the staff he could only have been a house-surgeon or a house-physician -- little more than a senior student. And he left five years ago -- the date is on the stick. So your grave, middle-aged family practitioner vanishes into thin air, my dear Watson, and there emerges a young fellow under thirty, amiable, unambitious, absent-minded, and the possessor of a favourite dog, which I should describe roughly as being larger than a terrier and smaller than a mastiff
As to the latter part, I have no means of checking you
but at least it is not difficult to find out a few particulars about the man's age and professional career
Mortimer, James, M.R.C.S., 1882, Grimpen, Dartmoor, Devon. House-surgeon, from 1882 to 1884, at Charing Cross Hospital. Winner of the Jackson prize for Comparative Pathology, with essay entitled 'Is Disease a Reversion?' Corresponding member of the Swedish Pathological Society. Author of 'Some Freaks of Atavism' (Lancet 1882). 'Do We Progress?' (Journal of Psychology, March, 1883). Medical Officer for the parishes of Grimpen, Thorsley, and High Barrow
No mention of that local hunt, Watson
but a country doctor, as you very astutely observed. I think that I am fairly justified in my inferences. As to the adjectives, I said, if I remember right, amiable, unambitious, and absent-minded. It is my experience that it is only an amiable man in this world who receives testimonials, only an unambitious one who abandons a London career for the country, and only an absent-minded one who leaves his stick and not his visiting-card after waiting an hour in your room
And the dog
Has been in the habit of carrying this stick behind his master. Being a heavy stick the dog has held it tightly by the middle, and the marks of his teeth are very plainly visible. The dog's jaw, as shown in the space between these marks, is too broad in my opinion for a terrier and not broad enough for a mastiff. It may have been -- yes, by Jove, it is a curly-haired spaniel
My dear fellow, how can you possibly be so sure of that
For the very simple reason that I see the dog himself on our very door-step, and there is the ring of its owner. Don't move, I beg you, Watson. He is a professional brother of yours, and your presence may be of assistance to me. Now is the dramatic moment of fate, Watson, when you hear a step upon the stair which is walking into your life, and you know not whether for good or ill. What does Dr. James Mortimer, the man of science, ask of Sherlock Holmes, the specialist in crime? Come in
I am so very glad
I was not sure whether I had left it here or in the Shipping Office. I would not lose that stick for the world
A presentation, I see
Yes, sir
From Charing Cross Hospital
From one or two friends there on the occasion of my marriage
Dear, dear, that's bad
Why was it bad
Only that you have disarranged our little deductions. Your marriage, you say
Yes, sir. I married, and so left the hospital, and with it all hopes of a consulting practice. It was necessary to make a home of my own
Come, come, we are not so far wrong, after all
And now, Dr. James Mortimer
Mister, sir, Mister -- a humble M.R.C.S
And a man of precise mind, evidently
A dabbler in science, Mr. Holmes, a picker up of shells on the shores of the great unknown ocean. I presume that it is Mr. Sherlock Holmes whom I am addressing and not
No, this is my friend Dr. Watson
Glad to meet you, sir. I have heard your name mentioned in connection with that of your friend. You interest me very much, Mr. Holmes. I had hardly expected so dolichocephalic a skull or such well-marked supra-orbital development. Would you have any objection to my running my finger along your parietal fissure? A cast of your skull, sir, until the original is available, would be an ornament to any anthropological museum. It is not my intention to be fulsome, but I confess that I covet your skull
You are an enthusiast in your line of thought, I perceive, sir, as I am in mine
I observe from your forefinger that you make your own cigarettes. Have no hesitation in lighting one
I presume, sir
that it was not merely for the purpose of examining my skull that you have done me the honour to call here last night and again today
No, sir, no; though I am happy to have had the opportunity of doing that as well. I came to you, Mr. Holmes, because I recognized that I am myself an unpractical man and because I am suddenly confronted with a most serious and extraordinary problem. Recognizing, as I do, that you are the second highest expert in Europe
Indeed, sir! May I inquire who has the honour to be the first
To the man of precisely scientific mind the work of Monsieur Bertillon must always appeal strongly
Then had you not better consult him
I said, sir, to the precisely scientific mind. But as a practical man of affairs it is acknowledged that you stand alone. I trust, sir, that I have not inadvertently
Just a little
I think, Dr. Mortimer, you would do wisely if without more ado you would kindly tell me plainly what the exact nature of the problem is in which you demand my assistance
I have in my pocket a manuscript
I observed it as you entered the room
It is an old manuscript
Early eighteenth century, unless it is a forgery
How can you say that, sir
You have presented an inch or two of it to my examination all the time that you have been talking. It would be a poor expert who could not give the date of a document within a decade or so. You may possibly have read my little monograph upon the subject. I put that at 1730
The exact date is 1742
This family paper was committed to my care by Sir Charles Baskerville, whose sudden and tragic death some three months ago created so much excitement in Devonshire. I may say that I was his personal friend as well as his medical attendant. He was a strong-minded man, sir, shrewd, practical, and as unimaginative as I am myself. Yet he took this document very seriously, and his mind was prepared for just such an end as did eventually overtake him
You will observe, Watson, the alternative use of the long s and the short. It is one of several indications which enabled me to fix the date
Baskerville Hall
1742
It appears to be a statement of some sort
Yes, it is a statement of a certain legend which runs in the Baskerville family
But I understand that it is something more modern and practical upon which you wish to consult me
Most modern. A most practical, pressing matter, which must be decided within twenty-four hours. But the manuscript is short and is intimately connected with the affair. With your permission I will read it to you
Well
Do you not find it interesting
To a collector of fairy tales
Now, Mr. Holmes, we will give you something a little more recent. This is the Devon County Chronicle of May14 th of this year. It is a short account of the facts elicited at the death of Sir Charles Baskerville which occurred a few days before that date
The recent sudden death of Sir Charles Baskerville, whose name has been mentioned as the probable Liberal candidate for Mid-Devon at the next election, has cast a gloom over the county. Though Sir Charles had resided at Baskerville Hall for a comparatively short period his amiability of character and extreme generosity had won the affection and respect of all who had been brought into contact with him. In these days of nouveaux riches it is refreshing to find a case where the scion of an old county family which has fallen upon evil days is able to make his own fortune and to bring it back with him to restore the fallen grandeur of his line. Sir Charles, as is well known, made large sums of money in South African speculation. More wise than those who go on until the wheel turns against them, he realized his gains and returned to England with them. It is only two years since he took up his residence at Baskerville Hall, and it is common talk how large were those schemes of reconstruction and improvement which have been interrupted by his death. Being himself childless, it was his openly expressed desire that the whole countryside should, within his own lifetime, profit by his good fortune, and many will have personal reasons for bewailing his untimely end. His generous donations to local and county charities have been frequently chronicled in these columns. "The circumstances connected with the death of Sir Charles cannot be said to have been entirely cleared up by the inquest, but at least enough has been done to dispose of those rumours to which local superstition has given rise. There is no reason whatever to suspect foul play, or to imagine that death could be from any but natural causes. Sir Charles was a widower, and a man who may be said to have been in some ways of an eccentric habit of mind. In spite of his considerable wealth he was simple in his personal tastes, and his indoor servants at Baskerville Hall consisted of a married couple named Barrymore, the husband acting as butler and the wife as housekeeper. Their evidence, corroborated by that of several friends, tends to show that Sir Charles's health has for some time been impaired, and points especially to some affection of the heart, manifesting itself in changes of colour, breathlessness, and acute attacks of nervous depression. Dr. James Mortimer, the friend and medical attendant of the deceased, has given evidence to the same effect. 

"The facts of the case are simple. Sir Charles Baskerville was in the habit every night before going to bed of walking down the famous yew alley of Baskerville Hall. The evidence of the Barrymores shows that this had been his custom. On the fourth of May Sir Charles had declared his intention of starting next day for London, and had ordered Barrymore to prepare his luggage. That night he went out as usual for his nocturnal walk, in the course of which he was in the habit of smoking a cigar. He never returned. At twelve o'clock Barrymore, finding the hall door still open, became alarmed, and, lighting a lantern, went in search of his master. The day had been wet, and Sir Charles's footmarks were easily traced down the alley. Halfway down this walk there is a gate which leads out on to the moor. There were indications that Sir Charles had stood for some little time here. He then proceeded down the alley, and it was at the far end of it that his body was discovered. One fact which has not been explained is the statement of Barrymore that his master's footprints altered their character from the time that he passed the moor-gate, and that he appeared from thence onward to have been walking upon his toes. One Murphy, a gipsy horse-dealer, was on the moor at no great distance at the time, but he appears by his own confession to have been the worse for drink. He declares that he heard cries but is unable to state from what direction they came. No signs of violence were to be discovered upon Sir Charles's person, and though the doctor's evidence pointed to an almost incredible facial distortion -- so great that Dr. Mortimer refused at first to believe that it was indeed his friend and patient who lay before him -- it was explained that that is a symptom which is not unusual in cases of dyspnoea and death from cardiac exhaustion. This explanation was borne out by the post-mortem examination, which showed long-standing organic disease, and the coroner's jury returned a verdict in accordance with the medical evidence. It is well that this is so, for it is obviously of the utmost importance that Sir Charles's heir should settle at the Hall and continue the good work which has been so sadly interrupted. Had the prosaic finding of the coroner not finally put an end to the romantic stories which have been whispered in connection with the affair, it might have been difficult to find a tenant for Baskerville Hall. It is understood that the next of kin is Mr. Henry Baskerville, if he be still alive, the son of Sir Charles Baskerville's younger brother. The young man when last heard of was in America, and inquiries are being instituted with a view to informing him of his good fortune
Those are the public facts, Mr. Holmes, in connection with the death of Sir Charles Baskerville
I must thank you
for calling my attention to a case which certainly presents some features of interest. I had observed some newspaper comment at the time, but I was exceedingly preoccupied by that little affair of the Vatican cameos, and in my anxiety to oblige the Pope I lost touch with several interesting English cases. This article, you say, contains all the public facts
It does
Then let me have the private ones
In doing so
The moor is very sparsely inhabited, and those who live near each other are thrown very much together. For this reason I saw a good deal of Sir Charles Baskerville. With the exception of Mr. Frankland, of Lafter Hall, and Mr. Stapleton, the naturalist, there are no other men of education within many miles. Sir Charles was a retiring man, but the chance of his illness brought us together, and a community of interests in science kept us so. He had brought back much scientific information from South Africa, and many a charming evening we have spent together discussing the comparative anatomy of the Bushman and the Hottentot. "Within the last few months it became increasingly plain to me that Sir Charles's nervous system was strained to the breaking point. He had taken this legend which I have read you exceedingly to heart -- so much so that, although he would walk in his own grounds, nothing would induce him to go out upon the moor at night. Incredible as it may appear to you, Mr. Holmes, he was honestly convinced that a dreadful fate overhung his family, and certainly the records which he was able to give of his ancestors were not encouraging. The idea of some ghastly presence constantly haunted him, and on more than one occasion he has asked me whether I had on my medical journeys at night ever seen any strange creature or heard the baying of a hound. The latter question he put to me several times, and always with a voice which vibrated with excitement. 

"I can well remember driving up to his house in the evening some three weeks before the fatal event. He chanced to be at his hall door. I had descended from my gig and was standing in front of him, when I saw his eyes fix themselves over my shoulder and stare past me with an expression of the most dreadful horror. I whisked round and had just time to catch a glimpse of something which I took to be a large black calf passing at the head of the drive. So excited and alarmed was he that I was compelled to go down to the spot where the animal had been and look around for it. It was gone, however, and the incident appeared to make the worst impression upon his mind. I stayed with him all the evening, and it was on that occasion, to explain the emotion which he had shown, that he confided to my keeping that narrative which I read to you when first I came. I mention this small episode because it assumes some importance in view of the tragedy which followed, but I was convinced at the time that the matter was entirely trivial and that his excitement had no justification. 

"It was at my advice that Sir Charles was about to go to London. His heart was, I knew, affected, and the constant anxiety in which he lived, however chimerical the cause of it might be, was evidently having a serious effect upon his health. I thought that a few months among the distractions of town would send him back a new man. Mr. Stapleton, a mutual friend who was much concerned at his state of health, was of the same opinion. At the last instant came this terrible catastrophe. 

"On the night of Sir Charles's death Barrymore the butler, who made the discovery, sent Perkins the groom on horseback to me, and as I was sitting up late I was able to reach Baskerville Hall within an hour of the event. I checked and corroborated all the facts which were mentioned at the inquest. I followed the footsteps down the yew alley, I saw the spot at the moor-gate where he seemed to have waited, I remarked the change in the shape of the prints after that point, I noted that there were no other footsteps save those of Barrymore on the soft gravel, and finally I carefully examined the body, which had not been touched until my arrival. Sir Charles lay on his face, his arms out, his fingers dug into the ground, and his features convulsed with some strong emotion to such an extent that I could hardly have sworn to his identity. There was certainly no physical injury of any kind. But one false statement was made by Barrymore at the inquest. He said that there were no traces upon the ground round the body. He did not observe any. But I did -- some little distance off, but fresh and clear
Footprints
Footprints
A man's or a woman's
Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound
You saw this
As clearly as I see you
And you said nothing
What was the use
How was it that no one else saw it
The marks were some twenty yards from the body and no one gave them a thought. I don't suppose I should have done so had I not known this legend
There are many sheep-dogs on the moor
No doubt, but this was no sheep-dog
You say it was large
Enormous
But it had not approached the body
No
What sort of night was it?' "Damp and raw
But not actually raining
No
What is the alley like
There are two lines of old yew hedge, twelve feet high and impenetrable. The walk in the centre is about eight feet across
Is there anything between the hedges and the walk
Yes, there is a strip of grass about six feet broad on either side
I understand that the yew hedge is penetrated at one point by a gate
Yes, the wicket-gate which leads on to the moor
Is there any other opening
None
So that to reach the yew alley one either has to come down it from the house or else to enter it by the moor-gate
There is an exit through a summer-house at the far end
Had Sir Charles reached this
No; he lay about fifty yards from it
Now, tell me, Dr. Mortimer -- and this is important -- the marks which you saw were on the path and not on the grass
No marks could show on the grass
Were they on the same side of the path as the moor-gate
Yes; they were on the edge of the path on the same side as the moor-gate
You interest me exceedingly. Another point. Was the wicket-gate closed
Closed and padlocked
How high was it
About four feet high
Then anyone could have got over it
Yes
And what marks did you see by the wicket-gate
None in particular
Good heaven! Did no one examine
Yes, I examined, myself
And found nothing
It was all very confused. Sir Charles had evidently stood there for five or ten minutes
How do you know that
Because the ash had twice dropped from his cigar
Excellent! This is a colleague, Watson, after our own heart. But the marks
He had left his own marks all over that small patch of gravel. I could discern no others
If I had only been there
It is evidently a case of extraordinary interest, and one which presented immense opportunities to the scientific expert. That gravel page upon which I might have read so much has been long ere this smudged by the rain and defaced by the clogs of curious peasants. Oh, Dr. Mortimer, Dr. Mortimer, to think that you should not have called me in! You have indeed much to answer for
I could not call you in, Mr. Holmes, without disclosing these facts to the world, and I have already given my reasons for not wishing to do so. Besides, besides
Why do you hesitate
There is a realm in which the most acute and most experienced of detectives is helpless
You mean that the thing is supernatural
I did not positively say so
No, but you evidently think it
Since the tragedy, Mr. Holmes, there have come to my ears several incidents which are hard to reconcile with the settled order of Nature
For example
I find that before the terrible event occurred several people had seen a creature upon the moor which corresponds with this Baskerville demon, and which could not possibly be any animal known to science. They all agreed that it was a huge creature, luminous, ghastly, and spectral. I have cross-examined these men, one of them a hard-headed countryman, one a farrier, and one a moorland farmer, who all tell the same story of this dreadful apparition, exactly corresponding to the hell-hound of the legend. I assure you that there is a reign of terror in the district, and that it is a hardy man who will cross the moor at night
And you, a trained man of science, believe it to be supernatural
I do not know what to believe
I have hitherto confined my investigations to this world
In a modest way I have combated evil, but to take on the Father of Evil himself would, perhaps, be too ambitious a task. Yet you must admit that the footmark is material
The original hound was material enough to tug a man's throat out, and yet he was diabolical as well
I see that you have quite gone over to the supernaturalists. But now, Dr. Mortimer, tell me this. If you hold these views, why have you come to consult me at all? You tell me in the same breath that it is useless to investigate Sir Charles's death, and that you desire me to do it
I did not say that I desired you to do it
Then, how can I assist you
By advising me as to what I should do with Sir Henry Baskerville, who arrives at Waterloo Station
in exactly one hour and a quarter
He being the heir
Yes. On the death of Sir Charles we inquired for this young gentleman and found that he had been farming in Canada. From the accounts which have reached us he is an excellent fellow in every way. I speak now not as a medical man but as a trustee and executor of Sir Charles's will
There is no other claimant, I presume
None. The only other kinsman whom we have been able to trace was Rodger Baskerville, the youngest of three brothers of whom poor Sir Charles was the elder. The second brother, who died young, is the father of this lad Henry. The third, Rodger, was the black sheep of the family. He came of the old masterful Baskerville strain and was the very image, they tell me, of the family picture of old Hugo. He made England too hot to hold him, fled to Central America, and died there in 1876 of yellow fever. Henry is the last of the Baskervilles. In one hour and five minutes I meet him at Waterloo Station. I have had a wire that he arrived at Southampton this morning. Now, Mr. Holmes, what would you advise me to do with him
Why should he not go to the home of his fathers
It seems natural, does it not? And yet, consider that every Baskerville who goes there meets with an evil fate. I feel sure that if Sir Charles could have spoken with me before his death he would have warned me against bringing this, the last of the old race, and the heir to great wealth, to that deadly place. And yet it cannot be denied that the prosperity of the whole poor, bleak countryside depends upon his presence. All the good work which has been done by Sir Charles will crash to the ground if there is no tenant of the Hall. I fear lest I should be swayed too much by my own obvious interest in the matter, and that is why I bring the case before you and ask for your advice
Put into plain words, the matter is this
In your opinion there is a diabolical agency which makes Dartmoor an unsafe abode for a Baskerville -- that is your opinion
At least I might go the length of saying that there is some evidence that this may be so
Exactly. But surely, if your supernatural theory be correct, it could work the young man evil in London as easily as in Devonshire. A devil with merely local powers like a parish vestry would be too inconceivable a thing
You put the matter more flippantly, Mr. Holmes, than you would probably do if you were brought into personal contact with these things. Your advice, then, as I understand it, is that the young man will be as safe in Devonshire as in London. He comes in fifty minutes. What would you recommend
I recommend, sir, that you take a cab, call off your spaniel who is scratching at my front door, and proceed to Waterloo to meet Sir Henry Baskerville
And then
And then you will say nothing to him at all until I have made up my mind about the matter
How long will it take you to make up your mind
Twenty-four hours. At ten o'clock tomorrow, Dr. Mortimer, I will be much obliged to you if you will call upon me here, and it will be of help to me in my plans for the future if you will bring Sir Henry Baskerville with you
I will do so, Mr. Holmes
Only one more question, Dr. Mortimer. You say that before Sir Charles Baskerville's death several people saw this apparition upon the moor
Three people did
Did any see it after
I have not heard of any
Thank you. Good-morning
Going out, Watson
Unless I can help you
No, my dear fellow, it is at the hour of action that I turn to you for aid. But this is splendid, really unique from some points of view. When you pass Bradley's, would you ask him to send up a pound of the strongest shag tobacco? Thank you. It would be as well if you could make it convenient not to return before evening. Then I should be very glad to compare impressions as to this most interesting problem which has been submitted to us this morning
Caught cold, Watson
No, it's this poisonous atmosphere
I suppose it is pretty thick, now that you mention it
Thick! It is intolerable
Open the window, then! You have been at your club all day, I perceive
My dear Holmes
Am I right
Certainly, but how
There is a delightful freshness about you, Watson, which makes it a pleasure to exercise any small powers which I possess at your expense. A gentleman goes forth on a showery and miry day. He returns immaculate in the evening with the gloss still on his hat and his boots. He has been a fixture therefore all day. He is not a man with intimate friends. Where, then, could he have been? Is it not obvious
Well, it is rather obvious
The world is full of obvious things which nobody by any chance ever observes. Where do you think that I have been
A fixture also
On the contrary, I have been to Devonshire
In spirit
Exactly. My body has remained in this armchair and has, I regret to observe, consumed in my absence two large pots of coffee and an incredible amount of tobacco. After you left I sent down to Stamford's for the Ordnance map of this portion of the moor, and my spirit has hovered over it all day. I flatter myself that I could find my way about
A large-scale map, I presume
Very large
Here you have the particular district which concerns us. That is Baskerville Hall in the middle
With a wood round it
Exactly. I fancy the yew alley, though not marked under that name, must stretch along this line, with the moor, as you perceive, upon the right of it. This small clump of buildings here is the hamlet of Grimpen, where our friend Dr. Mortimer has his headquarters. Within a radius of five miles there are, as you see, only a very few scattered dwellings. Here is Lafter Hall, which was mentioned in the narrative. There is a house indicated here which may be the residence of the naturalist -- Stapleton, if I remember right, was his name. Here are two moorland farmhouses, High Tor and Foulmire. Then fourteen miles away the great convict prison of Princetown. Between and around these scattered points extends the desolate, lifeless moor. This, then, is the stage upon which tragedy has been played, and upon which we may help to play it again
It must be a wild place
Yes, the setting is a worthy one. If the devil did desire to have a hand in the affairs of men
Then you are yourself inclining to the supernatural explanation
The devil's agents may be of flesh and blood, may they not? There are two questions waiting for us at the outset. The one is whether any crime has been committed at all; the second is, what is the crime and how was it committed? Of course, if Dr. Mortimer's surmise should be correct, and we are dealing with forces outside the ordinary laws of Nature, there is an end of our investigation. But we are bound to exhaust all other hypotheses before falling back upon this one. I think we'll shut that window again, if you don't mind. It is a singular thing, but I find that a concentrated atmosphere helps a concentration of thought. I have not pushed it to the length of getting into a box to think, but that is the logical outcome of my convictions. Have you turned the case over in your mind
Yes, I have thought a good deal of it in the course of the day
What do you make of it
It is very bewildering
It has certainly a character of its own. There are points of distinction about it. That change in the footprints, for example. What do you make of that
Mortimer said that the man had walked on tiptoe down that portion of the alley
He only repeated what some fool had said at the inquest. Why should a man walk on tiptoe down the alley
What then
He was running, Watson -- running desperately, running for his life, running until he burst his heart -- and fell dead upon his face
Running from what
There lies our problem. There are indications that the man was crazed with fear before ever he began to run
How can you say that
I am presuming that the cause of his fears came to him across the moor. If that were so, and it seems most probable, only a man who had lost his wits would have run from the house instead of towards it. If the gipsy's evidence may be taken as true, he ran with cries for help in the direction where help was least likely to be. Then, again, whom was he waiting for that night, and why was he waiting for him in the yew alley rather than in his own house
You think that he was waiting for someone
The man was elderly and infirm. We can understand his taking an evening stroll, but the ground was damp and the night inclement. Is it natural that he should stand for five or ten minutes, as Dr. Mortimer, with more practical sense than I should have given him credit for, deduced from the cigar ash
But he went out every evening
I think it unlikely that he waited at the moor-gate every evening. On the contrary, the evidence is that he avoided the moor. That night he waited there. It was the night before he made his departure for London. The thing takes shape, Watson. It becomes coherent. Might I ask you to hand me my violin, and we will postpone all further thought upon this business until we have had the advantage of meeting Dr. Mortimer and Sir Henry Baskerville in the morning
This is Sir Henry Baskerville
Why, yes
and the strange thing is, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, that if my friend here had not proposed coming round to you this morning I should have come on my own account. I understand that you think out little puzzles, and I've had one this morning which wants more thinking out than I am able to give it
Pray take a seat, Sir Henry. Do I understand you to say that you have yourself had some remarkable experience since you arrived in London
Nothing of much importance, Mr. Holmes. Only a joke, as like as not. It was this letter, if you can call it a letter, which reached me this morning
Sir Henry Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel
Charing Cross
Who knew that you were going to the Northumberland Hotel
No one could have known. We only decided after I met Dr. Mortimer
But Dr. Mortimer was no doubt already stopping there
No, I had been staying with a friend
There was no possible indication that we intended to go to this hotel
Hum! Someone seems to be very deeply interested in your movements
Now
perhaps you will tell me, Mr. Holmes, what in thunder is the meaning of that, and who it is that takes so much interest in my affairs
What do you make of it, Dr. Mortimer? You must allow that there is nothing supernatural about this, at any rate
No, sir, but it might very well come from someone who was convinced that the business is supernatural
What business
It seems to me that all you gentlemen know a great deal more than I do about my own affairs
You shall share our knowledge before you leave this room, Sir Henry. I promise you that
We will confine ourselves for the present with your permission to this very interesting document, which must have been put together and posted yesterday evening. Have you yesterday's Times, Watson
It is here in the corner
Might I trouble you for it -- the inside page, please, with the leading articles
What do you think of that, Watson
Don't you think that is an admirable sentiment
I don't know much about the tariff and things of that kind
but it seems to me we've got a bit off the trail so far as that note is concerned
On the contrary, I think we are particularly hot upon the trail, Sir Henry. Watson here knows more about my methods than you do, but I fear that even he has not quite grasped the significance of this sentence
No, I confess that I see no connection
And yet, my dear Watson, there is so very close a connection that the one is extracted out of the other. 'You,' 'your,' 'your,' 'life,' 'reason,' 'value,' 'keep away,' 'from the.' Don't you see now whence these words have been taken
By thunder, you're right! Well, if that isn't smart
If any possible doubt remained it is settled by the fact that 'keep away' and 'from the' are cut out in one piece
Well, now -- so it is
Really, Mr. Holmes, this exceeds anything which I could have imagined
I could understand anyone saying that the words were from a newspaper; but that you should name which, and add that it came from the leading article, is really one of the most remarkable things which I have ever known. How did you do it
I presume, Doctor, that you could tell the skull of a negro from that of an Esquimau
Most certainly
But how
Because that is my special hobby. The differences are obvious. The supra-orbital crest, the facial angle, the maxillary curve, the
But this is my special hobby, and the differences are equally obvious. There is as much difference to my eyes between the leaded bourgeois type of a Times article and the slovenly print of an evening half-penny paper as there could be between your negro and your Esquimau. The detection of types is one of the most elementary branches of knowledge to the special expert in crime, though I confess that once when I was very young I confused the Leeds Mercury with the Western Morning News. But a Times leader is entirely distinctive, and these words could have been taken from nothing else. As it was done yesterday the strong probability was that we should find the words in yesterday's issue
So far as I can follow you, then, Mr. Holmes
someone cut out this message with a scissors
Nail-scissors
You can see that it was a very short-bladed scissors, since the cutter had to take two snips over 'keep away
That is so. Someone, then, cut out the message with a pair of short-bladed scissors, pasted it with paste
Gum
With gum on to the paper. But I want to know why the word 'moor' should have been written
Because he could not find it in print. The other words were all simple and might be found in any issue, but 'moor' would be less common
Why, of course, that would explain it. Have you read anything else in this message, Mr. Holmes
There are one or two indications, and yet the utmost pains have been taken to remove all clues. The address, you observe is printed in rough characters. But the Times is a paper which is seldom found in any hands but those of the highly educated. We may take it, therefore, that the letter was composed by an educated man who wished to pose as an uneducated one, and his effort to conceal his own writing suggests that that writing might be known, or come to be known, by you. Again, you will observe that the words are not gummed on in an accurate line, but that some are much higher than others. 'Life,' for example is quite out of its proper place. That may point to carelessness or it may point to agitation and hurry upon the part of the cutter. On the whole I incline to the latter view, since the matter was evidently important, and it is unlikely that the composer of such a letter would be careless. If he were in a hurry it opens up the interesting question why he should be in a hurry, since any letter posted up to early morning would reach Sir Henry before he would leave his hotel. Did the composer fear an interruption -- and from whom
We are coming now rather into the region of guesswork
Say, rather, into the region where we balance probabilities and choose the most likely. It is the scientific use of the imagination, but we have always some material basis on which to start our speculation. Now, you would call it a guess, no doubt, but I am almost certain that this address has been written in a hotel
How in the world can you say that
If you examine it carefully you will see that both the pen and the ink have given the writer trouble. The pen has spluttered twice in a single word and has run dry three times in a short address, showing that there was very little ink in the bottle. Now, a private pen or ink-bottle is seldom allowed to be in such a state, and the combination of the two must be quite rare. But you know the hotel ink and the hotel pen, where it is rare to get anything else. Yes, I have very little hesitation in saying that could we examine the waste-paper baskets of the hotels around Charing Cross until we found the remains of the mutilated Times leader we could lay our hands straight upon the person who sent this singular message. Halloa! Halloa! What's this
Well
Nothing
It is a blank half-sheet of paper, without even a water-mark upon it. I think we have drawn as much as we can from this curious letter; and now, Sir Henry, has anything else of interest happened to you since you have been in London
Why, no, Mr. Holmes. I think not
You have not observed anyone follow or watch you
I seem to have walked right into the thick of a dime novel
Why in thunder should anyone follow or watch me
We are coming to that. You have nothing else to report to us before we go into this matter
Well, it depends upon what you think worth reporting
I think anything out of the ordinary routine of life well worth reporting
I don't know much of British life yet, for I have spent nearly all my time in the States and in Canada. But I hope that to lose one of your boots is not part of the ordinary routine of life over here
You have lost one of your boots
My dear sir
it is only mislaid. You will find it when you return to the hotel. What is the use of troubling Mr. Holmes with trifles of this kind
Well, he asked me for anything outside the ordinary routine
Exactly
however foolish the incident may seem. You have lost one of your boots, you say
Well, mislaid it, anyhow. I put them both outside my door last night, and there was only one in the morning. I could get no sense out of the chap who cleans them. The worst of it is that I only bought the pair last night in the Strand, and I have never had them on
If you have never worn them, why did you put them out to be cleaned
They were tan boots and had never been varnished. That was why I put them out
Then I understand that on your arrival in London yesterday you went out at once and bought a pair of boots
I did a good deal of shopping. Dr. Mortimer here went round with me. You see, if I am to be squire down there I must dress the part, and it may be that I have got a little careless in my ways out West. Among other things I bought these brown boots -- gave six dollars for them -- and had one stolen before ever I had them on my feet
It seems a singularly useless thing to steal
I confess that I share Dr. Mortimer's belief that it will not be long before the missing boot is found
And, now, gentlemen
it seems to me that I have spoken quite enough about the little that I know. It is time that you kept your promise and gave me a full account of what we are all driving at
Your request is a very reasonable one
Dr. Mortimer, I think you could not do better than to tell your story as you told it to us
Well, I seem to have come into an inheritance with a vengeance
Of course, I've heard of the hound ever since I was in the nursery. It's the pet story of the family, though I never thought of taking it seriously before. But as to my uncle's death -- well, it all seems boiling up in my head, and I can't get it clear yet. You don't seem quite to have made up your mind whether it's a case for a policeman or a clergyman
Precisely
And now there's this affair of the letter to me at the hotel. I suppose that fits into its place
It seems to show that someone knows more than we do about what goes on upon the moor
And also
that someone is not ill-disposed towards you, since they warn you of danger
Or it may be that they wish, for their own purposes, to scare me away
Well, of course, that is possible also. I am very much indebted to you, Dr. Mortimer, for introducing me to a problem which presents several interesting alternatives. But the practical point which we now have to decide, Sir Henry, is whether it is or is not advisable for you to go to Baskerville Hall
Why should I not go
There seems to be danger
Do you mean danger from this family fiend or do you mean danger from human beings
Well, that is what we have to find out
Whichever it is, my answer is fixed. There is no devil in hell, Mr. Holmes, and there is no man upon earth who can prevent me from going to the home of my own people, and you may take that to be my final answer
Meanwhile
I have hardly had time to think over all that you have told me. It's a big thing for a man to have to understand and to decide at one sitting. I should like to have a quiet hour by myself to make up my mind. Now, look here, Mr. Holmes, it's half-past eleven now and I am going back right away to my hotel. Suppose you and your friend, Dr. Watson, come round and lunch with us at two. I'll be able to tell you more clearly then how this thing strikes me
Is that convenient to you, Watson
Perfectly
Then you may expect us. Shall I have a cab called
I'd prefer to walk, for this affair has flurried me rather
I'll join you in a walk, with pleasure
Then we meet again at two o'clock. Au revoir, and good-morning
Your hat and boots, Watson, quick! Not a moment to lose
Shall I run on and stop them
Not for the world, my dear Watson. I am perfectly satisfied with your company if you will tolerate mine. Our friends are wise, for it is certainly a very fine morning for a walk
There's our man, Watson! Come along! We'll have a good look at him, if we can do no more
There now
Was ever such bad luck and such bad management, too? Watson, Watson, if you are an honest man you will record this also and set it against my successes
Who was the man
I have not an idea
A spy
Well, it was evident from what we have heard that Baskerville has been very closely shadowed by someone since he has been in town. How else could it be known so quickly that it was the Northumberland Hotel which he had chosen? If they had followed him the first day I argued that they would follow him also the second. You may have observed that I twice strolled over to the window while Dr. Mortimer was reading his legend
Yes, I remember
I was looking out for loiterers in the street, but I saw none. We are dealing with a clever man, Watson. This matter cuts very deep, and though I have not finally made up my mind whether it is a benevolent or a malevolent agency which is in touch with us, I am conscious always of power and design. When our friends left I at once followed them in the hopes of marking down their invisible attendant. So wily was he that he had not trusted himself upon foot, but he had availed himself of a cab so that he could loiter behind or dash past them and so escape their notice. His method had the additional advantage that if they were to take a cab he was all ready to follow them. It has, however, one obvious disadvantage
It puts him in the power of the cabman
Exactly
What a pity we did not get the number
My dear Watson, clumsy as I have been, you surely do not seriously imagine that I neglected to get the number? No. 2704 is our man. But that is no use to us for the moment
I fail to see how you could have done more
On observing the cab I should have instantly turned and walked in the other direction. I should then at my leisure have hired a second cab and followed the first at a respectful distance, or, better still, have driven to the Northumberland Hotel and waited there. When our unknown had followed Baskerville home we should have had the opportunity of playing his own game upon himself and seeing where he made for. As it is, by an indiscreet eagerness, which was taken advantage of with extraordinary quickness and energy by our opponent, we have betrayed ourselves and lost our man
There is no object in our following them
The shadow has departed and will not return. We must see what further cards we have in our hands and play them with decision. Could you swear to that man's face within the cab
I could swear only to the beard
And so could I -- from which I gather that in all probability it was a false one. A clever man upon so delicate an errand has no use for a beard save to conceal his features. Come in here, Watson
Ah, Wilson, I see you have not forgotten the little case in which I had the good fortune to help you
No, sir, indeed I have not. You saved my good name, and perhaps my life
My dear fellow, you exaggerate. I have some recollection, Wilson, that you had among your boys a lad named Cartwright, who showed some ability during the investigation
Yes, sir, he is still with us
Could you ring him up? -- thank you! And I should be glad to have change of this five-pound note
Let me have the Hotel Directory
Thank you! Now, Cartwright, there are the names of twenty-three hotels here, all in the immediate neighbourhood of Charing Cross. Do you see
Yes, sir
You will visit each of these in turn
Yes, sir
You will begin in each case by giving the outside porter one shilling. Here are twenty-three shillings
Yes, sir
You will tell him that you want to see the waste-paper of yesterday. You will say that an important telegram has miscarried and that you are looking for it. You understand
Yes, sir
But what you are really looking for is the centre page of the Times with some holes cut in it with scissors. Here is a copy of the Times. It is this page. You could easily recognize it, could you not
Yes, sir
In each case the outside porter will send for the hall porter, to whom also you will give a shilling. Here are twenty-three shillings. You will then learn in possibly twenty cases out of the twenty-three that the waste of the day before has been burned or removed. In the three other cases you will be shown a heap of paper and you will look for this page of the Times among it. The odds are enormously against your finding it. There are ten shillings over in case of emergencies. Let me have a report by wire at Baker Street before evening. And now, Watson, it only remains for us to find out by wire the identity of the cabman, No. 2704, and then we will drop into one of the Bond Street picture galleries and fill in the time until we are due at the hotel
Sir Henry Baskerville is upstairs expecting you
He asked me to show you up at once when you came
Have you any objection to my looking at your register
Not in the least
Surely that must be the same Johnson whom I used to know
A lawyer, is he not, gray-headed, and walks with a limp
No, sir, this is Mr. Johnson, the coal-owner, a very active gentleman, not older than yourself
Surely you are mistaken about his trade
No, sir! he has used this hotel for many years, and he is very well known to us
Ah, that settles it. Mrs. Oldmore, too; I seem to remember the name. Excuse my curiosity, but often in calling upon one friend one finds another
She is an invalid lady, sir. Her husband was once mayor of Gloucester. She always comes to us when she is in town
Thank you; I am afraid I cannot claim her acquaintance. We have established a most important fact by these questions, Watson
We know now that the people who are so interested in our friend have not settled down in his own hotel. That means that while they are, as we have seen, very anxious to watch him, they are equally anxious that he should not see them. Now, this is a most suggestive fact
What does it suggest
It suggests -- halloa, my dear fellow, what on earth is the matter
Seems to me they are playing me for a sucker in this hotel
They'll find they've started in to monkey with the wrong man unless they are careful. By thunder, if that chap can't find my missing boot there will be trouble. I can take a joke with the best, Mr. Holmes, but they've got a bit over the mark this time
Still looking for your boot
Yes, sir, and mean to find it
But, surely, you said that it was a new brown boot
So it was, sir. And now it's an old black one
What! you don't mean to say
That's just what I do mean to say. I only had three pairs in the world -- the new brown, the old black, and the patent leathers, which I am wearing. Last night they took one of my brown ones, and today they have sneaked one of the black. Well, have you got it? Speak out, man, and don't stand staring
No, sir; I have made inquiry all over the hotel, but I can hear no word of it
Well, either that boot comes back before sundown or I'll see the manager and tell him that I go right straight out of this hotel
It shall be found, sir -- I promise you that if you will have a little patience it will be found
Mind it is, for it's the last thing of mine that I'll lose in this den of thieves. Well, well, Mr. Holmes, you'll excuse my troubling you about such a trifle
I think it's well worth troubling about
Why, you look very serious over it
How do you explain it
I just don't attempt to explain it. It seems the very maddest, queerest thing that ever happened to me
The queerest perhaps
What do you make of it yourself
Well, I don't profess to understand it yet. This case of yours is very complex, Sir Henry. When taken in conjunction with your uncle's death I am not sure that of all the five hundred cases of capital importance which I have handled there is one which cuts so deep. But we hold several threads in our hands, and the odds are that one or other of them guides us to the truth. We may waste time in following the wrong one, but sooner or later we must come upon the right
To go to Baskerville Hall
And when
At the end of the week
On the whole
I think that your decision is a wise one. I have ample evidence that you are being dogged in London, and amid the millions of this great city it is difficult to discover who these people are or what their object can be. If their intentions are evil they might do you a mischief, and we should be powerless to prevent it. You did not know, Dr. Mortimer, that you were followed this morning from my house
Followed! By whom
That, unfortunately, is what I cannot tell you. Have you among your neighbours or acquaintances on Dartmoor any man with a black, full beard
No -- or, let me see -- why, yes. Barrymore, Sir Charles's butler, is a man with a full, black beard
Ha! Where is Barrymore
He is in charge of the Hall
We had best ascertain if he is really there, or if by any possibility he might be in London
How can you do that
Give me a telegraph form. 'Is all ready for Sir Henry?' That will do. Address to Mr. Barrymore, Baskerville Hall. What is the nearest telegraph-office? Grimpen. Very good, we will send a second wire to the postmaster, Grimpen: 'Telegram to Mr. Barrymore to be delivered into his own hand. If absent, please return wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel.' That should let us know before evening whether Barrymore is at his post in Devonshire or not
That's so
By the way, Dr. Mortimer, who is this Barrymore, anyhow
He is the son of the old caretaker, who is dead. They have looked after the Hall for four generations now. So far as I know, he and his wife are as respectable a couple as any in the county
At the same time
it's clear enough that so long as there are none of the family at the Hall these people have a mighty fine home and nothing to do
That is true
Did Barrymore profit at all by Sir Charles's will
He and his wife had five hundred pounds each
Ha! Did they know that they would receive this
Yes; Sir Charles was very fond of talking about the provisions of his will
That is very interesting
I hope
that you do not look with suspicious eyes upon everyone who received a legacy from Sir Charles, for I also had a thousand pounds left to me
Indeed! And anyone else
There were many insignificant sums to individuals, and a large number of public charities. The residue all went to Sir Henry
And how much was the residue
Seven hundred and forty thousand pounds
I had no idea that so gigantic a sum was involved
Sir Charles had the reputation of being rich, but we did not know how very rich he was until we came to examine his securities. The total value of the estate was close on to a million
Dear me! It is a stake for which a man might well play a desperate game. And one more question, Dr. Mortimer. Supposing that anything happened to our young friend here -- you will forgive the unpleasant hypothesis!-- who would inherit the estate
Since Rodger Baskerville, Sir Charles's younger brother died unmarried, the estate would descend to the Desmonds, who are distant cousins. James Desmond is an elderly clergyman in Westmoreland
Thank you. These details are all of great interest. Have you met Mr. James Desmond
Yes; he once came down to visit Sir Charles. He is a man of venerable appearance and of saintly life. I remember that he refused to accept any settlement from Sir Charles, though he pressed it upon him
And this man of simple tastes would be the heir to Sir Charles's thousands
He would be the heir to the estate because that is entailed. He would also be the heir to the money unless it were willed otherwise by the present owner, who can, of course, do what he likes with it
And have you made your will, Sir Henry
No, Mr. Holmes, I have not. I've had no time, for it was only yesterday that I learned how matters stood. But in any case I feel that the money should go with the title and estate. That was my poor uncle's idea. How is the owner going to restore the glories of the Baskervilles if he has not money enough to keep up the property? House, land, and dollars must go together
Quite so. Well, Sir Henry, I am of one mind with you as to the advisability of your going down to Devonshire without delay. There is only one provision which I must make. You certainly must not go alone
Dr. Mortimer returns with me
But Dr. Mortimer has his practice to attend to, and his house is miles away from yours. With all the goodwill in the world he may be unable to help you. No, Sir Henry, you must take with you someone, a trusty man, who will be always by your side
Is it possible that you could come yourself, Mr. Holmes
If matters came to a crisis I should endeavour to be present in person; but you can understand that, with my extensive consulting practice and with the constant appeals which reach me from many quarters, it is impossible for me to be absent from London for an indefinite time. At the present instant one of the most revered names in England is being besmirched by a blackmailer, and only I can stop a disastrous scandal. You will see how impossible it is for me to go to Dartmoor
Whom would you recommend, then
If my friend would undertake it there is no man who is better worth having at your side when you are in a tight place. No one can say so more confidently than I
Well, now, that is real kind of you, Dr. Watson
You see how it is with me, and you know just as much about the matter as I do. If you will come down to Baskerville Hall and see me through I'll never forget it
I will come, with pleasure
I do not know how I could employ my time better
And you will report very carefully to me
When a crisis comes, as it will do, I will direct how you shall act. I suppose that by Saturday all might be ready
Would that suit Dr. Watson
Perfectly
Then on Saturday, unless you hear to the contrary, we shall meet at the ten-thirty train from Paddington
My missing boot
May all our difficulties vanish as easily
But it is a very singular thing
I searched this room carefully before lunch
And so did I
Every inch of it
There was certainly no boot in it then
In that case the waiter must have placed it there while we were lunching
There go two of my threads, Watson. There is nothing more stimulating than a case where everything goes against you. We must cast round for another scent
We have still the cabman who drove the spy
Exactly. I have wired to get his name and address from the Official Registry. I should not be surprised if this were an answer to my question
I got a message from the head office that a gent at this address had been inquiring for No. 2704
I've driven my cab this seven years and never a word of complaint. I came here straight from the Yard to ask you to your face what you had against me
I have nothing in the world against you, my good man
On the contrary, I have half a sovereign for you if you will give me a clear answer to my questions
Well, I've had a good day and no mistake
What was it you wanted to ask, sir
First of all your name and address, in case I want you again
John Clayton, 3 Turpey Street, the Borough. My cab is out of Shipley's Yard, near Waterloo Station
Now, Clayton, tell me all about the fare who came and watched this house at ten o'clock this morning and afterwards followed the two gentlemen down Regent Street
Why, there's no good my telling you things, for you seem to know as much as I do already
The truth is that the gentleman told me that he was a detective and that I was to say nothing about him to anyone
My good fellow; this is a very serious business, and you may find yourself in a pretty bad position if you try to hide anything from me. You say that your fare told you that he was a detective
Yes, he did
When did he say this
When he left me
Did he say anything more
He mentioned his name
Oh, he mentioned his name, did he? That was imprudent. What was the name that he mentioned
His name
was Mr. Sherlock Holmes
A touch, Watson -- an undeniable touch
I feel a foil as quick and supple as my own. He got home upon me very prettily that time. So his name was Sherlock Holmes, was it
Yes, sir, that was the gentleman's name
Excellent! Tell me where you picked him up and all that occurred
He hailed me at half-past nine in Trafalgar Square. He said that he was a detective, and he offered me two guineas if I would do exactly what he wanted all day and ask no questions. I was glad enough to agree. First we drove down to the Northumberland Hotel and waited there until two gentlemen came out and took a cab from the rank. We followed their cab until it pulled up somewhere near here
This very door
Well, I couldn't be sure of that, but I dare say my fare knew all about it. We pulled up halfway down the street and waited an hour and a half. Then the two gentlemen passed us, walking, and we followed down Baker Street and along
I know
Until we got three-quarters down Regent Street. Then my gentleman threw up the trap, and he cried that I should drive right away to Waterloo Station as hard as I could go. I whipped up the mare and we were there under the ten minutes. Then he paid up his two guineas, like a good one, and away he went into the station. Only just as he was leaving he turned round and he said: 'It might interest you to know that you have been driving Mr. Sherlock Holmes.' That's how I come to know the name
I see. And you saw no more of him
Not after he went into the station
And how would you describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes
Well, he wasn't altogether such an easy gentleman to describe. I'd put him at forty years of age, and he was of a middle height, two or three inches shorter than you, sir. He was dressed like a toff, and he had a black beard, cut square at the end, and a pale face. I don't know as I could say more than that
Colour of his eyes
No, I can't say that
Nothing more that you can remember
No, sir; nothing
Well, then, here is your half-sovereign. There's another one waiting for you if you can bring any more information. Good-night
Good-night, sir, and thank you
Snap goes our third thread, and we end where we began
The cunning rascal! He knew our number, knew that Sir Henry Baskerville had consulted me, spotted who I was in Regent Street, conjectured that I had got the number of the cab and would lay my hands on the driver, and so sent back this audacious message. I tell you, Watson, this time we have got a foeman who is worthy of our steel. I've been checkmated in London. I can only wish you better luck in Devonshire. But I'm not easy in my mind about it
About what
About sending you. It's an ugly business, Watson, an ugly dangerous business, and the more I see of it the less I like it. Yes, my dear fellow, you may laugh, but I give you my word that I shall be very glad to have you back safe and sound in Baker Street once more
I will not bias your mind by suggesting theories or suspicions, Watson
I wish you simply to report facts in the fullest possible manner to me, and you can leave me to do the theorizing
What sort of facts
Anything which may seem to have a bearing however indirect upon the case, and especially the relations between young Baskerville and his neighbours or any fresh particulars concerning the death of Sir Charles. I have made some inquiries myself in the last few days, but the results have, I fear, been negative. One thing only appears to be certain, and that is that Mr. James Desmond, who is the next heir, is an elderly gentleman of a very amiable disposition, so that this persecution does not arise from him. I really think that we may eliminate him entirely from our calculations. There remain the people who will actually surround Sir Henry Baskerville upon the moor
Would it not be well in the first place to get rid of this Barrymore couple
By no means. You could not make a greater mistake. If they are innocent it would be a cruel injustice, and if they are guilty we should be giving up all chance of bringing it home to them. No, no, we will preserve them upon our list of suspects. Then there is a groom at the Hall, if I remember right. There are two moorland farmers. There is our friend Dr. Mortimer, whom I believe to be entirely honest, and there is his wife, of whom we know nothing. There is this naturalist, Stapleton, and there is his sister, who is said to be a young lady of attractions. There is Mr. Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who is also an unknown factor, and there are one or two other neighbours. These are the folk who must be your very special study
I will do my best
You have arms, I suppose
Yes, I thought it as well to take them
Most certainly. Keep your revolver near you night and day, and never relax your precautions
No, we have no news of any kind
I can swear to one thing, and that is that we have not been shadowed during the last two days. We have never gone out without keeping a sharp watch, and no one could have escaped our notice
You have always kept together, I presume
Except yesterday afternoon. I usually give up one day to pure amusement when I come to town, so I spent it at the Museum of the College of Surgeons
And I went to look at the folk in the park
But we had no trouble of any kind
It was imprudent, all the same
I beg, Sir Henry, that you will not go about alone. Some great misfortune will befall you if you do. Did you get your other boot
No, sir, it is gone forever
Indeed. That is very interesting. Well, good-bye
Bear in mind, Sir Henry, one of the phrases in that queer old legend which Dr. Mortimer has read to us, and avoid the moor in those hours of darkness when the powers of evil are exalted
I've been over a good part of the world since I left it, Dr. Watson
but I have never seen a place to compare with it
I never saw a Devonshire man who did not swear by his county
It depends upon the breed of men quite as much as on the county
A glance at our friend here reveals the rounded head of the Celt, which carries inside it the Celtic enthusiasm and power of attachment. Poor Sir Charles's head was of a very rare type, half Gaelic, half Ivernian in its characteristics. But you were very young when you last saw Baskerville Hall, were you not
I was a boy in my teens at the time of my father's death and had never seen the Hall, for he lived in a little cottage on the South Coast. Thence I went straight to a friend in America. I tell you it is all as new to me as it is to Dr. Watson, and I'm as keen as possible to see the moor
Are you? Then your wish is easily granted, for there is your first sight of the moor
Halloa
what is this
What is this, Perkins
There's a convict escaped from Princetown, sir. He's been out three days now, and the warders watch every road and every station, but they've had no sight of him yet. The farmers about here don't like it, sir, and that's a fact
Well, I understand that they get five pounds if they can give information
Yes, sir, but the chance of five pounds is but a poor thing compared to the chance of having your throat cut. You see, it isn't like any ordinary convict. This is a man that would stick at nothing
Who is he, then
It is Selden, the Notting Hill murderer
Baskerville Hall
Was it here
No, no, the yew alley is on the other side
It's no wonder my uncle felt as if trouble were coming on him in such a place as this
It's enough to scare any man. I'll have a row of electric lamps up here inside of six months, and you won't know it again, with a thousand candle-power Swan and Edison right here in front of the hall door
Welcome, Sir Henry! Welcome to Baskerville Hall
You don't mind my driving straight home, Sir Henry
My wife is expecting me
Surely you will stay and have some dinner
No, I must go. I shall probably find some work awaiting me. I would stay to show you over the house, but Barrymore will be a better guide than I. Good-bye, and never hesitate night or day to send for me if I can be of service
It's just as I imagined it
Is it not the very picture of an old family home? To think that this should be the same hall in which for five hundred years my people have lived. It strikes me solemn to think of it
Would you wish dinner to be served at once, sir
Is it ready
In a very few minutes, sir. You will find hot water in your rooms. My wife and I will be happy, Sir Henry, to stay with you until you have made your fresh arrangements, but you will understand that under the new conditions this house will require a considerable staff
What new conditions
I only meant, sir, that Sir Charles led a very retired life, and we were able to look after his wants. You would, naturally, wish to have more company, and so you will need changes in your household
Do you mean that your wife and you wish to leave
Only when it is quite convenient to you, sir
But your family have been with us for several generations, have they not? I should be sorry to begin my life here by breaking an old family connection
I feel that also, sir, and so does my wife. But to tell the truth, sir, we were both very much attached to Sir Charles, and his death gave us a shock and made these surroundings very painful to us. I fear that we shall never again be easy in our minds at Baskerville Hall
But what do you intend to do
I have no doubt, sir, that we shall succeed in establishing ourselves in some business. Sir Charles's generosity has given us the means to do so. And now, sir, perhaps I had best show you to your rooms
My word, it isn't a very cheerful place
I suppose one can tone down to it, but I feel a bit out of the picture at present. I don't wonder that my uncle got a little jumpy if he lived all alone in such a house as this. However, if it suits you, we will retire early tonight, and perhaps things may seem more cheerful in the morning
I guess it is ourselves and not the house that we have to blame
We were tired with our journey and chilled by our drive, so we took a gray view of the place. Now we are fresh and well, so it is all cheerful once more
And yet it was not entirely a question of imagination
Did you, for example, happen to hear someone, a woman I think, sobbing in the night
That is curious, for I did when I was half asleep fancy that I heard something of the sort. I waited quite a time, but there was no more of it, so I concluded that it was all a dream
I heard it distinctly, and I am sure that it was really the sob of a woman
We must ask about this right away
There are only two women in the house, Sir Henry
One is the scullery-maid, who sleeps in the other wing. The other is my wife, and I can answer for it that the sound could not have come from her
Certainly, sir
I had the telegram delivered to Mr. Barrymore exactly as directed
Who delivered it
My boy here. James, you delivered that telegram to Mr. Barrymore at the Hall last week, did you not
Yes, father, I delivered it
Into his own hands
Well, he was up in the loft at the time, so that I could not put it into his own hands, but I gave it into Mrs. Barrymore's hands, and she promised to deliver it at once
Did you see Mr. Barrymore
No, sir; I tell you he was in the loft
If you didn't see him, how do you know he was in the loft
Well, surely his own wife ought to know where he is
Didn't he get the telegram? If there is any mistake it is for Mr. Barrymore himself to complain
You will, I am sure, excuse my presumption, Dr. Watson
Here on the moor we are homely folk and do not wait for formal introductions. You may possibly have heard my name from our mutual friend, Mortimer. I am Stapleton, of Merripit House
Your net and box would have told me as much
for I knew that Mr. Stapleton was a naturalist. But how did you know me
I have been calling on Mortimer, and he pointed you out to me from the window of his surgery as you passed. As our road lay the same way I thought that I would overtake you and introduce myself. I trust that Sir Henry is none the worse for his journey
He is very well, thank you
We were all rather afraid that after the sad death of Sir Charles the new baronet might refuse to live here. It is asking much of a wealthy man to come down and bury himself in a place of this kind, but I need not tell you that it means a very great deal to the countryside. Sir Henry has, I suppose, no superstitious fears in the matter
I do not think that it is likely
Of course you know the legend of the fiend dog which haunts the family
I have heard it
It is extraordinary how credulous the peasants are about here! Any number of them are ready to swear that they have seen such a creature upon the moor
The story took a great hold upon the imagination of Sir Charles, and I have no doubt that it led to his tragic end
But how
His nerves were so worked up that the appearance of any dog might have had a fatal effect upon his diseased heart. I fancy that he really did see something of the kind upon that last night in the yew alley. I feared that some disaster might occur, for I was very fond of the old man, and I knew that his heart was weak
How did you know that
My friend Mortimer told me
You think, then, that some dog pursued Sir Charles, and that he died of fright in consequence
Have you any better explanation
I have not come to any conclusion
Has Mr. Sherlock Holmes
It is useless for us to pretend that we do not know you, Dr. Watson
The records of your detective have reached us here, and you could not celebrate him without being known yourself. When Mortimer told me your name he could not deny your identity. If you are here, then it follows that Mr. Sherlock Holmes is interesting himself in the matter, and I am naturally curious to know what view he may take
I am afraid that I cannot answer that question
May I ask if he is going to honour us with a visit himself
He cannot leave town at present. He has other cases which engage his attention
What a pity! He might throw some light on that which is so dark to us. But as to your own researches, if there is any possible way in which I can be of service to you I trust that you will command me. If I had any indication of the nature of your suspicions or how you propose to investigate the case, I might perhaps even now give you some aid or advice
I assure you that I am simply here upon a visit to my friend, Sir Henry, and that I need no help of any kind
Excellent
You are perfectly right to be wary and discreet. I am justly reproved for what I feel was an unjustifiable intrusion, and I promise you that I will not mention the matter again
A moderate walk along this moor-path brings us to Merripit House
Perhaps you will spare an hour that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to my sister
It is a wonderful place, the moor
You never tire of the moor. You cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains. It is so vast, and so barren, and so mysterious
You know it well, then
I have only been here two years. The residents would call me a newcomer. We came shortly after Sir Charles settled. But my tastes led me to explore every part of the country round, and I should think that there are few men who know it better than I do
Is it hard to know
Very hard. You see, for example, this great plain to the north here with the queer hills breaking out of it. Do you observe anything remarkable about that
It would be a rare place for a gallop
You would naturally think so and the thought has cost several their lives before now. You notice those bright green spots scattered thickly over it
Yes, they seem more fertile than the rest
That is the great Grimpen Mire
A false step yonder means death to man or beast. Only yesterday I saw one of the moor ponies wander into it. He never came out. I saw his head for quite a long time craning out of the bog-hole, but it sucked him down at last. Even in dry seasons it is a danger to cross it, but after these autumn rains it is an awful place. And yet I can find my way to the very heart of it and return alive. By George, there is another of those miserable ponies
It's gone
The mire has him. Two in two days, and many more, perhaps, for they get in the way of going there in the dry weather and never know the difference until the mire has them in its clutches. It's a bad place, the great Grimpen Mire
And you say you can penetrate it
Yes, there are one or two paths which a very active man can take. I have found them out
But why should you wish to go into so horrible a place
Well, you see the hills beyond? They are really islands cut off on all sides by the impassable mire, which has crawled round them in the course of years. That is where the rare plants and the butterflies are, if you have the wit to reach them
I shall try my luck some day
For God's sake put such an idea out of your mind
Your blood would be upon my head. I assure you that there would not be the least chance of your coming back alive. It is only by remembering certain complex landmarks that I am able to do it
Halloa
What is that
Queer place, the moor
But what is it
The peasants say it is the Hound of the Baskervilles calling for its prey. I've heard it once or twice before, but never quite so loud
You are an educated man. You don't believe such nonsense as that
What do you think is the cause of so strange a sound
Bogs make queer noises sometimes. It's the mud settling, or the water rising, or something
No, no, that was a living voice
Well, perhaps it was. Did you ever hear a bittern booming
No, I never did
It's a very rare bird -- practically extinct -- in England now, but all things are possible upon the moor. Yes, I should not be surprised to learn that what we have heard is the cry of the last of the bitterns
It's the weirdest, strangest thing that ever I heard in my life
Yes, it's rather an uncanny place altogether. Look at the hillside yonder. What do you make of those
What are they? Sheep-pens
No, they are the homes of our worthy ancestors. Prehistoric man lived thickly on the moor, and as no one in particular has lived there since, we find all his little arrangements exactly as he left them. These are his wigwams with the roofs off. You can even see his hearth and his couch if you have the curiosity to go inside. "But it is quite a town. When was it inhabited
Neolithic man -- no date
What did he do
He grazed his cattle on these slopes, and he learned to dig for tin when the bronze sword began to supersede the stone axe. Look at the great trench in the opposite hill. That is his mark. Yes, you will find some very singular points about the moor, Dr. Watson. Oh, excuse me an instant! It is surely Cyclopides
Go back
Go straight back to London, instantly
Why should I go back
I cannot explain
But for God's sake do what I ask you. Go back and never set foot upon the moor again
But I have only just come
Man, man
Can you not tell when a warning is for your own good? Go back to London! Start tonight! Get away from this place at all costs! Hush, my brother is coming! Not a word of what I have said. Would you mind getting that orchid for me among the mare's-tails yonder? We are very rich in orchids on the moor, though, of course, you are rather late to see the beauties of the place
Halloa, Beryl
Well, Jack, you are very hot
Yes, I was chasing a Cyclopides. He is very rare and seldom found in the late autumn. What a pity that I should have missed him
You have introduced yourselves, I can see
Yes. I was telling Sir Henry that it was rather late for him to see the true beauties of the moor
Why, who do you think this is
I imagine that it must be Sir Henry Baskerville
No, no
Only a humble commoner, but his friend. My name is Dr. Watson
We have been talking at cross purposes
Why, you had not very much time for talk
I talked as if Dr. Watson were a resident instead of being merely a visitor
It cannot much matter to him whether it is early or late for the orchids. But you will come on, will you not, and see Merripit House
Queer spot to choose, is it not
And yet we manage to make ourselves fairly happy, do we not, Beryl
Quite happy
I had a school
It was in the north country. The work to a man of my temperament was mechanical and uninteresting, but the privilege of living with youth, of helping to mould those young minds, and of impressing them with one's own character and ideals was very dear to me. However, the fates were against us. A serious epidemic broke out in the school and three of the boys died. It never recovered from the blow, and much of my capital was irretrievably swallowed up. And yet, if it were not for the loss of the charming companionship of the boys, I could rejoice over my own misfortune, for, with my strong tastes for botany and zoology, I find an unlimited field of work here, and my sister is as devoted to Nature as I am. All this, Dr. Watson, has been brought upon your head by your expression as you surveyed the moor out of our window
It certainly did cross my mind that it might be a little dull -- less for you, perhaps, than for your sister
No, no, I am never dull
We have books, we have our studies, and we have interesting neighbours. Dr. Mortimer is a most learned man in his own line. Poor Sir Charles was also an admirable companion. We knew him well and miss him more than I can tell. Do you think that I should intrude if I were to call this afternoon and make the acquaintance of Sir Henry
I am sure that he would be delighted
Then perhaps you would mention that I propose to do so. We may in our humble way do something to make things more easy for him until he becomes accustomed to his new surroundings. Will you come upstairs, Dr. Watson, and inspect my collection of Lepidoptera? I think it is the most complete one in the south-west of England. By the time that you have looked through them lunch will be almost ready
I have run all the way in order to cut you off, Dr. Watson
I had not even time to put on my hat. I must not stop, or my brother may miss me. I wanted to say to you how sorry I am about the stupid mistake I made in thinking that you were Sir Henry. Please forget the words I said, which have no application whatever to you
But I can't forget them, Miss Stapleton
I am Sir Henry's friend, and his welfare is a very close concern of mine. Tell me why it was that you were so eager that Sir Henry should return to London
A woman's whim, Dr. Watson. When you know me better you will understand that I cannot always give reasons for what I say or do
No, no. I remember the thrill in your voice. I remember the look in your eyes. Please, please, be frank with me, Miss Stapleton, for ever since I have been here I have been conscious of shadows all round me. Life has become like that great Grimpen Mire, with little green patches everywhere into which one may sink and with no guide to point the track. Tell me then what it was that you meant, and I will promise to convey your warning to Sir Henry
You make too much of it, Dr. Watson
But what is the danger
You know the story of the hound
I do not believe in such nonsense
But I do. If you have any influence with Sir Henry, take him away from a place which has always been fatal to his family. The world is wide. Why should he wish to live at the place of danger
Because it is the place of danger. That is Sir Henry's nature. I fear that unless you can give me some more definite information than this it would be impossible to get him to move
I cannot say anything definite, for I do not know anything definite
I would ask you one more question, Miss Stapleton. If you meant no more than this when you first spoke to me, why should you not wish your brother to overhear what you said? There is nothing to which he, or anyone else, could object
My brother is very anxious to have the Hall inhabited, for he thinks it is for the good of the poor folk upon the moor. He would be very angry if he knew that I have said anything which might induce Sir Henry to go away. But I have done my duty now and I will say no more. I must go back, or he will miss me and suspect that I have seen you. Good-bye
Did the boy deliver it into your own hands
No
I was in the box-room at the time, and my wife brought it up to me
Did you answer it yourself
No; I told my wife what to answer and she went down to write it
I could not quite understand the object of your questions this morning, Sir Henry
I trust that they do not mean that I have done anything to forfeit your confidence
I knew that Barrymore walked about nights, and I had a mind to speak to him about it
Two or three times I have heard his steps in the passage, coming and going, just about the hour you name
Perhaps then he pays a visit every night to that particular window
Perhaps he does. If so, we should be able to shadow him and see what it is that he is after. I wonder what your friend Holmes would do if he were here
I believe that he would do exactly what you now suggest
He would follow Barrymore and see what he did
Then we shall do it together
But surely he would hear us
The man is rather deaf, and in any case we must take our chance of that. We'll sit up in my room tonight and wait until he passes
What, are you coming, Watson
That depends on whether you are going on the moor
Yes, I am
Well, you know what my instructions are. I am sorry to intrude, but you heard how earnestly Holmes insisted that I should not leave you, and especially that you should not go alone upon the moor
My dear fellow
Holmes, with all his wisdom, did not foresee some things which have happened since I have been on the moor. You understand me? I am sure that you are the last man in the world who would wish to be a spoil-sport. I must go out alone
Halloa, Watson! Where have you dropped from
You don't mean to say that you came after me in spite of all
You would have thought the middle of that prairie a fairly safe place for a man to be private
but, by thunder, the whole countryside seems to have been out to see me do my wooing -- and a mighty poor wooing at that! Where had you engaged a seat
I was on that hill
Quite in the back row, eh? But her brother was well up to the front. Did you see him come out on us
Yes, I did
Did he ever strike you as being crazy -- this brother of hers
I can't say that he ever did
I dare say not. I always thought him sane enough until today, but you can take it from me that either he or I ought to be in a straitjacket. What's the matter with me, anyhow? You've lived near me for some weeks, Watson. Tell me straight, now! Is there anything that would prevent me from making a good husband to a woman that I loved
I should say not
He can't object to my worldly position, so it must be myself that he has this down on. What has he against me? I never hurt man or woman in my life that I know of. And yet he would not so much as let me touch the tips of her fingers
Did he say so
That, and a deal more. I tell you, Watson, I've only known her these few weeks, but from the first I just felt that she was made for me, and she, too -- she was happy when she was with me, and that I'll swear. There's a light in a woman's eyes that speaks louder than words. But he has never let us get together and it was only today for the first time that I saw a chance of having a few words with her alone. She was glad to meet me, but when she did it was not love that she would talk about, and she wouldn't have let me talk about it either if she could have stopped it. She kept coming back to it that this was a place of danger, and that she would never be happy until I had left it. I told her that since I had seen her I was in no hurry to leave it, and that if she really wanted me to go, the only way to work it was for her to arrange to go with me. With that I offered in as many words to marry her, but before she could answer, down came this brother of hers, running at us with a face on him like a madman. He was just white with rage, and those light eyes of his were blazing with fury. What was I doing with the lady? How dared I offer her attentions which were distasteful to her? Did I think that because I was a baronet I could do what I liked? If he had not been her brother I should have known better how to answer him. As it was I told him that my feelings towards his sister were such as I was not ashamed of, and that I hoped that she might honour me by becoming my wife. That seemed to make the matter no better, so then I lost my temper too, and I answered him rather more hotly than I should perhaps, considering that she was standing by. So it ended by his going off with her, as you saw, and here am I as badly puzzled a man as any in this county. Just tell me what it all means, Watson, and I'll owe you more than ever I can hope to pay
I don't say now that he isn't a crazy man
I can't forget the look in his eyes when he ran at me this morning, but I must allow that no man could make a more handsome apology than he has done
Did he give any explanation of his conduct
His sister is everything in his life, he says. That is natural enough, and I am glad that he should understand her value. They have always been together, and according to his account he has been a very lonely man with only her as a companion, so that the thought of losing her was really terrible to him. He had not understood, he said, that I was becoming attached to her, but when he saw with his own eyes that it was really so, and that she might be taken away from him, it gave him such a shock that for a time he was not responsible for what he said or did. He was very sorry for all that had passed, and he recognized how foolish and how selfish it was that he should imagine that he could hold a beautiful woman like his sister to himself for her whole life. If she had to leave him he had rather it was to a neighbour like myself than to anyone else. But in any case it was a blow to him and it would take him some time before he could prepare himself to meet it. He would withdraw all opposition upon his part if I would promise for three months to let the matter rest and to be content with cultivating the lady's friendship during that time without claiming her love. This I promised, and so the matter rests
by one night's work
What are you doing here, Barrymore
Nothing, sir
It was the window, sir. I go round at night to see that they are fastened
On the second floor
Yes, sir, all the windows
Look here, Barrymore
we have made up our minds to have the truth out of you, so it will save you trouble to tell it sooner rather than later. Come, now! No lies! What were you doing at that window
I was doing no harm, sir. I was holding a candle to the window
And why were you holding a candle to the window
Don't ask me, Sir Henry -- don't ask me! I give you my word, sir, that it is not my secret, and that I cannot tell it. If it concerned no one but myself I would not try to keep it from you
He must have been holding it as a signal
Let us see if there is any answer
There it is
No, no, sir, it is nothing -- nothing at all
I assure you, sir
Move your light across the window, Watson
See, the other moves also! Now, you rascal, do you deny that it is a signal? Come, speak up! Who is your confederate out yonder, and what is this conspiracy that is going on
It is my business, and not yours. I will not tell
Then you leave my employment right away
Very good, sir. If I must I must
And you go in disgrace. By thunder, you may well be ashamed of yourself. Your family has lived with mine for over a hundred years under this roof, and here I find you deep in some dark plot against me
No, no, sir; no, not against you
We have to go, Eliza. This is the end of it. You can pack our things
Oh, John, John, have I brought you to this? It is my doing, Sir Henry -- all mine. He has done nothing except for my sake and because I asked him
Speak out, then! What does it mean
My unhappy brother is starving on the moor. We cannot let him perish at our very gates. The light is a signal to him that food is ready for him, and his light out yonder is to show the spot to which to bring it
Then your brother is
The escaped convict, sir -- Selden, the criminal
That's the truth, sir
I said that it was not my secret and that I could not tell it to you. But now you have heard it, and you will see that if there was a plot it was not against you
Yes, sir, my name was Selden, and he is my younger brother. We humoured him too much when he was a lad and gave him his own way in everything until he came to think that the world was made for his pleasure, and that he could do what he liked in it. Then as he grew older he met wicked companions, and the devil entered into him until he broke my mother's heart and dragged our name in the dirt. From crime to crime he sank lower and lower until it is only the mercy of God which has snatched him from the scaffold; but to me, sir, he was always the little curly-headed boy that I had nursed and played with as an elder sister would. That was why he broke prison, sir. He knew that I was here and that we could not refuse to help him. When he dragged himself here one night, weary and starving, with the warders hard at his heels, what could we do? We took him in and fed him and cared for him. Then you returned, sir, and my brother thought he would be safer on the moor than anywhere else until the hue and cry was over, so he lay in hiding there. But every second night we made sure if he was still there by putting a light in the window, and if there was an answer my husband took out some bread and meat to him. Every day we hoped that he was gone, but as long as he was there we could not desert him. That is the whole truth, as I am an honest Christian woman and you will see that if there is blame in the matter it does not lie with my husband but with me, for whose sake he has done all that he has
Is this true, Barrymore
Yes, Sir Henry. Every word of it
Well, I cannot blame you for standing by your own wife. Forget what I have said. Go to your room, you two, and we shall talk further about this matter in the morning
I wonder he dares
It may be so placed as to be only visible from here
Very likely. How far do you think it is
Out by the Cleft Tor, I think
Not more than a mile or two off
Hardly that
Well, it cannot be far if Barrymore had to carry out the food to it. And he is waiting, this villain, beside that candle. By thunder, Watson, I am going out to take that man
I will come
Then get your revolver and put on your boots. The sooner we start the better, as the fellow may put out his light and be off
Are you armed
I have a hunting-crop
We must close in on him rapidly, for he is said to be a desperate fellow. We shall take him by surprise and have him at our mercy before he can resist
I say, Watson
what would Holmes say to this? How about that hour of darkness in which the power of evil is exalted
My God, what's that, Watson
I don't know. It's a sound they have on the moor. I heard it once before
Watson
it was the cry of a hound
What do they call this sound
Who
The folk on the countryside
Oh, they are ignorant people. Why should you mind what they call it
Tell me, Watson. What do they say of it
They say it is the cry of the Hound of the Baskervilles
A hound it was
but it seemed to come from miles away, over yonder, I think
It was hard to say whence it came
It rose and fell with the wind. Isn't that the direction of the great Grimpen Mire
Yes, it is
Well, it was up there. Come now, Watson, didn't you think yourself that it was the cry of a hound? I am not a child. You need not fear to speak the truth
Stapleton was with me when I heard it last. He said that it might be the calling of a strange bird
No, no, it was a hound. My God, can there be some truth in all these stories? Is it possible that I am really in danger from so dark a cause? You don't believe it, do you, Watson
No, no
And yet it was one thing to laugh about it in London, and it is another to stand out here in the darkness of the moor and to hear such a cry as that. And my uncle! There was the footprint of the hound beside him as he lay. It all fits together. I don't think that I am a coward, Watson, but that sound seemed to freeze my very blood. Feel my hand
You'll be all right tomorrow
I don't think I'll get that cry out of my head. What do you advise that we do now
Shall we turn back
No, by thunder; we have come out to get our man, and we will do it. We after the convict, and a hell-hound, as likely as not, after us. Come on! We'll see it through if all the fiends of the pit were loose upon the moor
What shall we do now
Wait here. He must be near his light. Let us see if we can get a glimpse of him
A warder, no doubt
The moor has been thick with them since this fellow escaped
Barrymore considers that he has a grievance
He thinks that it was unfair on our part to hunt his brother-in-law down when he, of his own free will, had told us the secret
I may have spoken too warmly, sir
and if I have, I am sure that I beg your pardon. At the same time, I was very much surprised when I heard you two gentlemen come back this morning and learned that you had been chasing Selden. The poor fellow has enough to fight against without my putting more upon his track
If you had told us of your own free will it would have been a different thing
you only told us, or rather your wife only told us, when it was forced from you and you could not help yourself
I didn't think you would have taken advantage of it, Sir Henry -- indeed I didn't
The man is a public danger. There are lonely houses scattered over the moor, and he is a fellow who would stick at nothing. You only want to get a glimpse of his face to see that. Look at Mr. Stapleton's house, for example, with no one but himself to defend it. There's no safety for anyone until he is under lock and key
He'll break into no house, sir. I give you my solemn word upon that. But he will never trouble anyone in this country again. I assure you, Sir Henry, that in a very few days the necessary arrangements will have been made and he will be on his way to South America. For God's sake, sir, I beg of you not to let the police know that he is still on the moor. They have given up the chase there, and he can lie quiet until the ship is ready for him. You can't tell on him without getting my wife and me into trouble. I beg you, sir, to say nothing to the police
What do you say, Watson
If he were safely out of the country it would relieve the tax-payer of a burden
But how about the chance of his holding someone up before he goes
He would not do anything so mad, sir. We have provided him with all that he can want. To commit a crime would be to show where he was hiding
That is true
Well, Barrymore
God bless you, sir, and thank you from my heart! It would have killed my poor wife had he been taken again
I guess we are aiding and abetting a felony, Watson? But, after what we have heard I don't feel as if I could give the man up, so there is an end of it. All right, Barrymore, you can go
You've been so kind to us, sir, that I should like to do the best I can for you in return. I know something, Sir Henry, and perhaps I should have said it before, but it was long after the inquest that I found it out. I've never breathed a word about it yet to mortal man. It's about poor Sir Charles's death
Do you know how he died
No, sir, I don't know that
What then
I know why he was at the gate at that hour. It was to meet a woman
To meet a woman! He
Yes, sir
And the woman's name
I can't give you the name, sir, but I can give you the initials. Her initials were L. L
How do you know this, Barrymore
Well, Sir Henry, your uncle had a letter that morning. He had usually a great many letters, for he was a public man and well known for his kind heart, so that everyone who was in trouble was glad to turn to him. But that morning, as it chanced, there was only this one letter, so I took the more notice of it. It was from Coombe Tracey, and it was addressed in a woman's hand
Well
Well, sir, I thought no more of the matter, and never would have done had it not been for my wife. Only a few weeks ago she was cleaning out Sir Charles's study -- it had never been touched since his death -- and she found the ashes of a burned letter in the back of the grate. The greater part of it was charred to pieces, but one little slip, the end of a page, hung together, and the writing could still be read, though it was gray on a black ground. It seemed to us to be a postscript at the end of the letter and it said: 'Please, please, as you are a gentleman, burn this letter, and be at the gate by ten o clock. Beneath it were signed the initials L. L
Have you got that slip
No, sir, it crumbled all to bits after we moved it
Had Sir Charles received any other letters in the same writing
Well, sir, I took no particular notice of his letters. I should not have noticed this one, only it happened to come alone
And you have no idea who L. L. is
No, sir. No more than you have. But I expect if we could lay our hands upon that lady we should know more about Sir Charles's death
I cannot understand, Barrymore, how you came to conceal this important information
Well, sir, it was immediately after that our own trouble came to us. And then again, sir, we were both of us very fond of Sir Charles, as we well might be considering all that he has done for us. To rake this up couldn't help our poor master, and it's well to go carefully when there's a lady in the case. Even the best of us
You thought it might injure his reputation
Well, sir, I thought no good could come of it. But now you have been kind to us, and I feel as if it would be treating you unfairly not to tell you all that I know about the matter
Very good, Barrymore; you can go
Well, Watson, what do you think of this new light
It seems to leave the darkness rather blacker than before
So I think. But if we can only trace L. L. it should clear up the whole business. We have gained that much. We know that there is someone who has the facts if we can only find her. What do you think we should do
Let Holmes know all about it at once. It will give him the clue for which he has been seeking. I am much mistaken if it does not bring him down
By the way, Mortimer
I suppose there are few people living within driving distance of this whom you do not know
Hardly any, I think
Can you, then, tell me the name of any woman whose initials are L. L
No
There are a few gipsies and labouring folk for whom I can't answer, but among the farmers or gentry there is no one whose initials are those. Wait a bit though
There is Laura Lyons -- her initials are L. L.-- but she lives in Coombe Tracey
Who is she
She is Frankland's daughter
What! Old Frankland the crank
Exactly. She married an artist named Lyons, who came sketching on the moor. He proved to be a blackguard and deserted her. The fault from what I hear may not have been entirely on one side. Her father refused to have anything to do with her because she had married without his consent and perhaps for one or two other reasons as well. So, between the old sinner and the young one the girl has had a pretty bad time
How does she live
I fancy old Frankland allows her a pittance, but it cannot be more, for his own affairs are considerably involved. Whatever she may have deserved one could not allow her to go hopelessly to the bad. Her story got about, and several of the people here did something to enable her to earn an honest living. Stapleton did for one, and Sir Charles for another. I gave a trifle myself. It was to set her up in a typewriting business
Well
has this precious relation of yours departed, or is he still lurking out yonder
I don't know, sir. I hope to heaven that he has gone, for he has brought nothing but trouble here! I've not heard of him since I left out food for him last, and that was three days ago
Did you see him then
No, sir, but the food was gone when next I went that way
Then he was certainly there
So you would think, sir, unless it was the other man who took it
You know that there is another man then
Yes, sir; there is another man upon the moor
Have you seen him
No, sir
How do you know of him then
Selden told me of him, sir, a week ago or more. He's in hiding, too, but he's not a convict as far as I can make out. I don't like it, Dr. Watson -- I tell you straight, sir, that I don't like it
Now, listen to me, Barrymore! I have no interest in this matter but that of your master. I have come here with no object except to help him. Tell me, frankly, what it is that you don't like
It's all these goings-on, sir
There's foul play somewhere, and there's black villainy brewing, to that I'll swear! Very glad I should be, sir, to see Sir Henry on his way back to London again
But what is it that alarms you
Look at Sir Charles's death! That was bad enough, for all that the coroner said. Look at the noises on the moor at night. There's not a man would cross it after sundown if he was paid for it. Look at this stranger hiding out yonder, and watching and waiting! What's he waiting for? What does it mean? It means no good to anyone of the name of Baskerville, and very glad I shall be to be quit of it all on the day that Sir Henry's new servants are ready to take over the Hall
But about this stranger
Can you tell me anything about him? What did Selden say? Did he find out where he hid, or what he was doing
He saw him once or twice, but he is a deep one and gives nothing away. At first he thought that he was the police, but soon he found that he had some lay of his own. A kind of gentleman he was, as far as he could see, but what he was doing he could not make out
And where did he say that he lived
Among the old houses on the hillside -- the stone huts where the old folk used to live
But how about his food
Selden found out that he has got a lad who works for him and brings all he needs. I dare say he goes to Coombe Tracey for what he wants
Very good, Barrymore. We may talk further of this some other time
I have the pleasure
of knowing your father
There is nothing in common between my father and me
I owe him nothing, and his friends are not mine. If it were not for the late Sir Charles Baskerville and some other kind hearts I might have starved for all that my father cared
It was about the late Sir Charles Baskerville that I have come here to see you
What can I tell you about him
You knew him, did you not
I have already said that I owe a great deal to his kindness. If I am able to support myself it is largely due to the interest which he took in my unhappy situation
Did you correspond with him
What is the object of these questions
The object is to avoid a public scandal. It is better that I should ask them here than that the matter should pass outside our control
Well, I'll answer
What are your questions
Did you correspond with Sir Charles
I certainly wrote to him once or twice to acknowledge his delicacy and his generosity
Have you the dates of those letters
No
Have you ever met him
Yes, once or twice, when he came into Coombe Tracey. He was a very retiring man, and he preferred to do good by stealth
But if you saw him so seldom and wrote so seldom, how did he know enough about your affairs to be able to help you, as you say that he has done
There were several gentlemen who knew my sad history and united to help me. One was Mr. Stapleton, a neighbour and intimate friend of Sir Charles's. He was exceedingly kind, and it was through him that Sir Charles learned about my affairs
Did you ever write to Sir Charles asking him to meet you
Really, sir, this is a very extraordinary question
I am sorry, madam, but I must repeat it
Then I answer, certainly not
Not on the very day of Sir Charles's death
Surely your memory deceives you
I could even quote a passage of your letter. It ran 'Please, please, as you are a gentleman, burn this letter, and be at the gate by ten o'clock
Is there no such thing as a gentleman
You do Sir Charles an injustice. He did burn the letter. But sometimes a letter may be legible even when burned. You acknowledge now that you wrote it
Yes, I did write it
I did write it. Why should I deny it? I have no reason to be ashamed of it. I wished him to help me. I believed that if I had an interview I could gain his help, so I asked him to meet me
But why at such an hour
Because I had only just learned that he was going to London next day and might be away for months. There were reasons why I could not get there earlier
But why a rendezvous in the garden instead of a visit to the house
Do you think a woman could go alone at that hour to a bachelor's house
Well, what happened when you did get there
I never went
Mrs. Lyons
No, I swear it to you on all I hold sacred. I never went. Something intervened to prevent my going
What was that
That is a private matter. I cannot tell it
You acknowledge then that you made an appointment with Sir Charles at the very hour and place at which he met his death, but you deny that you kept the appointment
That is the truth
Mrs. Lyons
you are taking a very great responsibility and putting yourself in a very false position by not making an absolutely clean breast of all that you know. If I have to call in the aid of the police you will find how seriously you are compromised. If your position is innocent, why did you in the first instance deny having written to Sir Charles upon that date
Because I feared that some false conclusion might be drawn from it and that I might find myself involved in a scandal
And why were you so pressing that Sir Charles should destroy your letter
If you have read the letter you will know
I did not say that I had read all the letter
You quoted some of it
I quoted the postscript. The letter had, as I said, been burned and it was not all legible. I ask you once again why it was that you were so pressing that Sir Charles should destroy this letter which he received on the day of his death
The matter is a very private one
The more reason why you should avoid a public investigation
I will tell you, then. If you have heard anything of my unhappy history you will know that I made a rash marriage and had reason to regret it
I have heard so much
My life has been one incessant persecution from a husband whom I abhor. The law is upon his side, and every day I am faced by the possibility that he may force me to live with him. At the time that I wrote this letter to Sir Charles I had learned that there was a prospect of my regaining my freedom if certain expenses could be met. It meant everything to me -- peace of mind, happiness, self-respect -- everything. I knew Sir Charles's generosity, and I thought that if he heard the story from my own lips he would help me
Then how is it that you did not go
Because I received help in the interval from another source
Why then, did you not write to Sir Charles and explain this
So I should have done had I not seen his death in the paper next morning
Good-day, Dr. Watson
you must really give your horses a rest and come in to have a glass of wine and to congratulate me
It is a great day for me, sir -- one of the red-letter days of my life
I have brought off a double event. I mean to teach them in these parts that law is law, and that there is a man here who does not fear to invoke it. I have established a right of way through the centre of old Middleton's park, slap across it, sir, within a hundred yards of his own front door. What do you think of that? We'll teach these magnates that they cannot ride roughshod over the rights of the commoners, confound them! And I've closed the wood where the Fernworthy folk used to picnic. These infernal people seem to think that there are no rights of property, and that they can swarm where they like with their papers and their bottles. Both cases decided, Dr. Watson, and both in my favour. I haven't had such a day since I had Sir John Morland for trespass because he shot in his own warren
How on earth did you do that
Look it up in the books, sir. It will repay reading -- Frankland v. Morland, Court of Queen's Bench. It cost me 200 pounds, but I got my verdict
Did it do you any good
None, sir, none. I am proud to say that I had no interest in the matter. I act entirely from a sense of public duty. I have no doubt, for example, that the Fernworthy people will burn me in effigy tonight. I told the police last time they did it that they should stop these disgraceful exhibitions. The County Constabulary is in a scandalous state, sir, and it has not afforded me the protection to which I am entitled. The case of Frankland v. Regina will bring the matter before the attention of the public. I told them that they would have occasion to regret their treatment of me, and already my words have come true
How so
Because I could tell them what they are dying to know; but nothing would induce me to help the rascals in any way
Some poaching case, no doubt
Ha, ha, my boy, a very much more important matter than that! What about the convict on the moor
You don't mean that you know where he is
I may not know exactly where he is, but I am quite sure that I could help the police to lay their hands on him. Has it never struck you that the way to catch that man was to find out where he got his food and so trace it to him
No doubt
but how do you know that he is anywhere upon the moor
I know it because I have seen with my own eyes the messenger who takes him his food
You'll be surprised to hear that his food is taken to him by a child. I see him every day through my telescope upon the roof. He passes along the same path at the same hour, and to whom should he be going except to the convict
I should say that it was much more likely that it was the son of one of the moorland shepherds taking out his father's dinner
Indeed, sir
Do you see that Black Tor over yonder? Well, do you see the low hill beyond with the thornbush upon it? It is the stoniest part of the whole moor. Is that a place where a shepherd would be likely to take his station? Your suggestion, sir, is a most absurd one
You may be sure, sir, that I have very good grounds before I come to an opinion. I have seen the boy again and again with his bundle. Every day, and sometimes twice a day, I have been able -- but wait a moment, Dr. Watson. Do my eyes deceive me, or is there at the present moment something moving upon that hillside
Come, sir, come
You will see with your own eyes and judge for yourself
Quick, Dr. Watson, quick, before he passes over the hill
Well! Am I right
Certainly, there is a boy who seems to have some secret errand
And what the errand is even a county constable could guess. But not one word shall they have from me, and I bind you to secrecy also, Dr. Watson. Not a word! You understand
Just as you wish
They have treated me shamefully -- shamefully. When the facts come out in Frankland v. Regina I venture to think that a thrill of indignation will run through the country. Nothing would induce me to help the police in any way. For all they cared it might have been me, instead of my effigy, which these rascals burned at the stake. Surely you are not going! You will help me to empty the decanter in honour of this great occasion
Dr. Watson has gone to Coombe Tracey
It is a lovely evening, my dear Watson
I really think that you will be more comfortable outside than in
Holmes
Holmes
Come out
and please be careful with the revolver
I never was more glad to see anyone in my life
Or more astonished, eh
Well, I must confess to it
The surprise was not all on one side, I assure you. I had no idea that you had found my occasional retreat, still less that you were inside it, until I was within twenty paces of the door
My footprint, I presume
No, Watson, I fear that I could not undertake to recognize your footprint amid all the footprints of the world. If you seriously desire to deceive me you must change your tobacconist; for when I see the stub of a cigarette marked Bradley, Oxford Street, I know that my friend Watson is in the neighbourhood. You will see it there beside the path. You threw it down, no doubt, at that supreme moment when you charged into the empty hut
Exactly
I thought as much -- and knowing your admirable tenacity I was convinced that you were sitting in ambush, a weapon within reach, waiting for the tenant to return. So you actually thought that I was the criminal
I did not know who you were, but I was determined to find out
Excellent, Watson! And how did you localize me? You saw me, perhaps, on the night of the convict hunt, when I was so imprudent as to allow the moon to rise behind me
Yes, I saw you then
And have no doubt searched all the huts until you came to this one
No, your boy had been observed, and that gave me a guide where to look
The old gentleman with the telescope, no doubt. I could not make it out when first I saw the light flashing upon the lens
Ha, I see that Cartwright has brought up some supplies. What's this paper? So you have been to Coombe Tracey, have you
Yes
To see Mrs. Laura Lyons
Exactly
Well done! Our researches have evidently been running on parallel lines, and when we unite our results I expect we shall have a fairly full knowledge of the case
Well, I am glad from my heart that you are here, for indeed the responsibility and the mystery were both becoming too much for my nerves. But how in the name of wonder did you come here, and what have you been doing? I thought that you were in Baker Street working out that case of blackmailing
That was what I wished you to think
Then you use me, and yet do not trust me
I think that I have deserved better at your hands, Holmes
My dear fellow, you have been invaluable to me in this as in many other cases, and I beg that you will forgive me if I have seemed to play a trick upon you. In truth, it was partly for your own sake that I did it, and it was my appreciation of the danger which you ran which led me to come down and examine the matter for myself. Had I been with Sir Henry and you it is confident that my point of view would have been the same as yours, and my presence would have warned our very formidable opponents to be on their guard. As it is, I have been able to get about as I could not possibly have done had I been living in the Hall, and I remain an unknown factor in the business, ready to throw in all my weight at a critical moment
But why keep me in the dark
For you to know could not have helped us and might possibly have led to my discovery. You would have wished to tell me something, or in your kindness you would have brought me out some comfort or other, and so an unnecessary risk would be run. I brought Cartwright down with me -- you remember the little chap at the express office -- and he has seen after my simple wants: a loaf of bread and a clean collar. What does man want more? He has given me an extra pair of eyes upon a very active pair of feet, and both have been invaluable
Then my reports have all been wasted
Here are your reports, my dear fellow, and very well thumbed, I assure you. I made excellent arrangements, and they are only delayed one day upon their way. I must compliment you exceedingly upon the zeal and the intelligence which you have shown over an extraordinarily difficult case
That's better
And now tell me the result of your visit to Mrs. Laura Lyons -- it was not difficult for me to guess that it was to see her that you had gone, for I am already aware that she is the one person in Coombe Tracey who might be of service to us in the matter. In fact, if you had not gone today it is exceedingly probable that I should have gone tomorrow
This is most important
It fills up a gap which I had been unable to bridge in this most complex affair. You are aware, perhaps, that a close intimacy exists between this lady and the man Stapleton
I did not know of a close intimacy
There can be no doubt about the matter. They meet, they write, there is a complete understanding between them. Now, this puts a very powerful weapon into our hands. If I could only use it to detach his wife
His wife
I am giving you some information now, in return for all that you have given me. The lady who has passed here as Miss Stapleton is in reality his wife
Good heavens, Holmes! Are you sure of what you say? How could he have permitted Sir Henry to fall in love with her
Sir Henry's falling in love could do no harm to anyone except Sir Henry. He took particular care that Sir Henry did not make love to her, as you have yourself observed. I repeat that the lady is his wife and not his sister
But why this elaborate deception
Because he foresaw that she would be very much more useful to him in the character of a free woman
It is he, then, who is our enemy -- it is he who dogged us in London
So I read the riddle
And the warning -- it must have come from her
Exactly
But are you sure of this, Holmes? How do you know that the woman is his wife
Because he so far forgot himself as to tell you a true piece of autobiography upon the occasion when he first met you, and I dare say he has many a time regretted it since. He was once a schoolmaster in the north of England. Now, there is no one more easy to trace than a schoolmaster. There are scholastic agencies by which one may identify any man who has been in the profession. A little investigation showed me that a school had come to grief under atrocious circumstances, and that the man who had owned it -- the name was different -- had disappeared with his wife. The descriptions agreed. When I learned that the missing man was devoted to entomology the identification was complete
If this woman is in truth his wife, where does Mrs. Laura Lyons come in
That is one of the points upon which your own researches have shed a light. Your interview with the lady has cleared the situation very much. I did not know about a projected divorce between herself and her husband. In that case, regarding Stapleton as an unmarried man, she counted no doubt upon becoming his wife
And when she is undeceived
Why, then we may find the lady of service. It must be our first duty to see her -- both of us -- tomorrow. Don't you think, Watson, that you are away from your charge rather long? Your place should be at Baskerville Hall
One last question, Holmes
Surely there is no need of secrecy between you and me. What is the meaning of it all? What is he after
It is murder, Watson -- refined, cold-blooded, deliberate murder. Do not ask me for particulars. My nets are closing upon him, even as his are upon Sir Henry, and with your help he is already almost at my mercy. There is but one danger which can threaten us. It is that he should strike before we are ready to do so. Another day -- two at the most -- and I have my case complete, but until then guard your charge as closely as ever a fond mother watched her ailing child. Your mission today has justified itself, and yet I could almost wish that you had not left his side. Hark
Oh, my God
What is it? What does it mean
Hush
Hush
Where is it
Where is it, Watson
There, I think
No, there
The hound
Come, Watson, come! Great heavens, if we are too late
He has beaten us, Watson. We are too late
No, no, surely not
Fool that I was to hold my hand. And you, Watson, see what comes of abandoning your charge! But, by Heaven, if the worst has happened we'll avenge him
Can you see anything
Nothing
But, hark, what is that
The brute! The brute
Oh Holmes, I shall never forgive myself for having left him to his fate
I am more to blame than you, Watson. In order to have my case well rounded and complete, I have thrown away the life of my client. It is the greatest blow which has befallen me in my career. But how could I know -- how could l know -- that he would risk his life alone upon the moor in the face of all my warnings
That we should have heard his screams -- my God, those screams!-- and yet have been unable to save him! Where is this brute of a hound which drove him to his death? It may be lurking among these rocks at this instant. And Stapleton, where is he? He shall answer for this deed
He shall. I will see to that. Uncle and nephew have been murdered -- the one frightened to death by the very sight of a beast which he thought to be supernatural, the other driven to his end in his wild flight to escape from it. But now we have to prove the connection between the man and the beast. Save from what we heard, we cannot even swear to the existence of the latter, since Sir Henry has evidently died from the fall. But, by heavens, cunning as he is, the fellow shall be in my power before another day is past
Why should we not seize him at once
Our case is not complete. The fellow is wary and cunning to the last degree. It is not what we know, but what we can prove. If we make one false move the villain may escape us yet
What can we do
There will be plenty for us to do tomorrow. Tonight we can only perform the last offices to our poor friend
We must send for help, Holmes! We cannot carry him all the way to the Hall. Good heavens, are you mad
A beard! A beard! The man has a beard
A beard
It is not the baronet -- it is -- why, it is my neighbour, the convict
Then the clothes have been the poor devil's death
It is clear enough that the hound has been laid on from some article of Sir Henry's -- the boot which was abstracted in the hotel, in all probability -- and so ran this man down. There is one very singular thing, however: How came Selden, in the darkness, to know that the hound was on his trail
He heard him
To hear a hound upon the moor would not work a hard man like this convict into such a paroxysm of terror that he would risk recapture by screaming wildly for help. By his cries he must have run a long way after he knew the animal was on his track. How did he know
A greater mystery to me is why this hound, presuming that all our conjectures are correct
I presume nothing
Well, then, why this hound should be loose tonight. I suppose that it does not always run loose upon the moor. Stapleton would not let it go unless he had reason to think that Sir Henry would be there
My difficulty is the more formidable of the two, for I think that we shall very shortly get an explanation of yours, while mine may remain forever a mystery. The question now is, what shall we do with this poor wretch's body? We cannot leave it here to the foxes and the ravens
I suggest that we put it in one of the huts until we can communicate with the police
Exactly. I have no doubt that you and I could carry it so far. Halloa, Watson, what's this? It's the man himself, by all that's wonderful and audacious! Not a word to show your suspicions -- not a word, or my plans crumble to the ground
Why, Dr. Watson, that's not you, is it? You are the last man that I should have expected to see out on the moor at this time of night. But, dear me, what's this? Somebody hurt? Not -- don't tell me that it is our friend Sir Henry
Who -- who's this
It is Selden, the man who escaped from Princetown
Dear me! What a very shocking affair! How did he die
He appears to have broken his neck by falling over these rocks. My friend and I were strolling on the moor when we heard a cry
I heard a cry also. That was what brought me out. I was uneasy about Sir Henry
Why about Sir Henry in particular
Because I had suggested that he should come over. When he did not come I was surprised, and I naturally became alarmed for his safety when I heard cries upon the moor. By the way
did you hear anything else besides a cry
No
did you
No
What do you mean, then
Oh, you know the stories that the peasants tell about a phantom hound, and so on. It is said to be heard at night upon the moor. I was wondering if there were any evidence of such a sound tonight
We heard nothing of the kind
And what is your theory of this poor fellow's death
I have no doubt that anxiety and exposure have driven him off his head. He has rushed about the moor in a crazy state and eventually fallen over here and broken his neck
That seems the most reasonable theory
What do you think about it, Mr. Sherlock Holmes
You are quick at identification
We have been expecting you in these parts since Dr. Watson came down. You are in time to see a tragedy
Yes, indeed. I have no doubt that my friend's explanation will cover the facts. I will take an unpleasant remembrance back to London with me tomorrow
Oh, you return tomorrow
That is my intention
I hope your visit has cast some light upon those occurrences which have puzzled us
One cannot always have the success for which one hopes. An investigator needs facts and not legends or rumours. It has not been a satisfactory case
I would suggest carrying this poor fellow to my house, but it would give my sister such a fright that I do not feel justified in doing it. I think that if we put something over his face he will be safe until morning
We're at close grips at last
What a nerve the fellow has! How he pulled himself together in the face of what must have been a paralyzing shock when he found that the wrong man had fallen a victim to his plot. I told you in London, Watson, and I tell you now again, that we have never had a foeman more worthy of our steel
I am sorry that he has seen you
And so was I at first. But there was no getting out of it
What effect do you think it will have upon his plans now that he knows you are here
It may cause him to be more cautious, or it may drive him to desperate measures at once. Like most clever criminals, he may be too confident in his own cleverness and imagine that he has completely deceived us
Why should we not arrest him at once
My dear Watson, you were born to be a man of action. Your instinct is always to do something energetic. But supposing, for argument's sake, that we had him arrested tonight, what on earth the better off should we be for that? We could prove nothing against him. There's the devilish cunning of it! If he were acting through a human agent we could get some evidence, but if we were to drag this great dog to the light of day it would not help us in putting a rope round the neck of its master
Surely we have a case
Not a shadow of one -- only surmise and conjecture. We should be laughed out of court if we came with such a story and such evidence
There is Sir Charles's death
Found dead without a mark upon him. You and I know that he died of sheer fright, and we know also what frightened him, but how are we to get twelve stolid jurymen to know it? What signs are there of a hound? Where are the marks of its fangs? Of course we know that a hound does not bite a dead body and that Sir Charles was dead before ever the brute overtook him. But we have to prove all this, and we are not in a position to do it
Well, then, tonight
We are not much better off tonight. Again, there was no direct connection between the hound and the man's death. We never saw the hound. We heard it, but we could not prove that it was running upon this man's trail. There is a complete absence of motive. No, my dear fellow; we must reconcile ourselves to the fact that we have no case at present, and that it is worth our while to run any risk in order to establish one
And how do you propose to do so
I have great hopes of what Mrs. Laura Lyons may do for us when the position of affairs is made clear to her. And I have my own plan as well. Sufficient for tomorrow is the evil thereof; but I hope before the day is past to have the upper hand at last
Are you coming up
Yes; I see no reason for further concealment. But one last word, Watson. Say nothing of the hound to Sir Henry. Let him think that Selden's death was as Stapleton would have us believe. He will have a better nerve for the ordeal which he will have to undergo tomorrow, when he is engaged, if I remember your report aright, to dine with these people
And so am I
Then you must excuse yourself and he must go alone. That will be easily arranged. And now, if we are too late for dinner, I think that we are both ready for our suppers
I've been moping in the house all day since Watson went off in the morning
I guess I should have some credit, for I have kept my promise. If I hadn't sworn not to go about alone I might have had a more lively evening, for I had a message from Stapleton asking me over there
I have no doubt that you would have had a more lively evening
By the way, I don't suppose you appreciate that we have been mourning over you as having broken your neck
How was that
This poor wretch was dressed in your clothes. I fear your servant who gave them to him may get into trouble with the police
That is unlikely. There was no mark on any of them, as far as I know
That's lucky for him -- in fact, it's lucky for all of you, since you are all on the wrong side of the law in this matter. I am not sure that as a conscientious detective my first duty is not to arrest the whole household. Watson's reports are most incriminating documents
But how about the case
Have you made anything out of the tangle? I don't know that Watson and I are much the wiser since we came down
I think that I shall be in a position to make the situation rather more clear to you before long. It has been an exceedingly difficult and most complicated business. There are several points upon which we still want light -- but it is coming all the same
We've had one experience, as Watson has no doubt told you. We heard the hound on the moor, so I can swear that it is not all empty superstition. I had something to do with dogs when I was out West, and I know one when I hear one. If you can muzzle that one and put him on a chain I'll be ready to swear you are the greatest detective of all time
I think I will muzzle him and chain him all right if you will give me your help
Whatever you tell me to do I will do
Very good; and I will ask you also to do it blindly, without always asking the reason
Just as you like
If you will do this I think the chances are that our little problem will soon be solved. I have no doubt
What is it
Excuse the admiration of a connoisseur
Watson won't allow that I know anything of art but that is mere jealousy because our views upon the subject differ. Now, these are a really very fine series of portraits
Well, I'm glad to hear you say so
I don't pretend to know much about these things, and I'd be a better judge of a horse or a steer than of a picture. I didn't know that you found time for such things
I know what is good when I see it, and I see it now. That's a Kneller, I'll swear, that lady in the blue silk over yonder, and the stout gentleman with the wig ought to be a Reynolds. They are all family portraits, I presume
Every one
Do you know the names
Barrymore has been coaching me in them, and I think I can say my lessons fairly well
Who is the gentleman with the telescope
That is Rear-Admiral Baskerville, who served under Rodney in the West Indies. The man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is Sir William Baskerville, who was Chairman of Committees of the House of Commons under Pitt
And this Cavalier opposite to me -- the one with the black velvet and the lace
Ah, you have a right to know about him. That is the cause of all the mischief, the wicked Hugo, who started the Hound of the Baskervilles. We're not likely to forget him
Dear me
he seems a quiet, meek-mannered man enough, but I dare say that there was a lurking devil in his eyes. I had pictured him as a more robust and ruffianly person
There's no doubt about the authenticity, for the name and the date, 1647, are on the back of the canvas
Do you see anything there
Is it like anyone you know
There is something of Sir Henry about the jaw
Just a suggestion, perhaps. But wait an instant
Good heavens
Ha, you see it now. My eyes have been trained to examine faces and not their trimmings. It is the first quality of a criminal investigator that he should see through a disguise
But this is marvellous. It might be his portrait
Yes, it is an interesting instance of a throwback, which appears to be both physical and spiritual. A study of family portraits is enough to convert a man to the doctrine of reincarnation. The fellow is a Baskerville -- that is evident
With designs upon the succession
Exactly. This chance of the picture has supplied us with one of our most obvious missing links. We have him, Watson, we have him, and I dare swear that before tomorrow night he will be fluttering in our net as helpless as one of his own butterflies. A pin, a cork, and a card, and we add him to the Baker Street collection
Yes, we should have a full day today
The nets are all in place, and the drag is about to begin. We'll know before the day is out whether we have caught our big, leanjawed pike, or whether he has got through the meshes
Have you been on the moor already
I have sent a report from Grimpen to Princetown as to the death of Selden. I think I can promise that none of you will be troubled in the matter. And I have also communicated with my faithful Cartwright, who would certainly have pined away at the door of my hut, as a dog does at his master's grave, if I had not set his mind at rest about my safety
What is the next move
To see Sir Henry. Ah, here he is
Good-morning, Holmes
You look like a general who is planning a battle with his chief of the staff
That is the exact situation. Watson was asking for orders
And so do I
Very good. You are engaged, as I understand, to dine with our friends the Stapletons tonight
I hope that you will come also. They are very hospitable people, and I am sure that they would be very glad to see you
I fear that Watson and I must go to London
To London
Yes, I think that we should be more useful there at the present juncture
I hoped that you were going to see me through this business. The Hall and the moor are not very pleasant places when one is alone
My dear fellow, you must trust me implicitly and do exactly what I tell you. You can tell your friends that we should have been happy to have come with you, but that urgent business required us to be in town. We hope very soon to return to Devonshire. Will you remember to give them that message
If you insist upon it
There is no alternative, I assure you
When do you desire to go
Immediately after breakfast. We will drive in to Coombe Tracey, but Watson will leave his things as a pledge that he will come back to you. Watson, you will send a note to Stapleton to tell him that you regret that you cannot come
I have a good mind to go to London with you
Why should I stay here alone
Because it is your post of duty. Because you gave me your word that you would do as you were told, and I tell you to stay
All right, then, I'll stay
One more direction! I wish you to drive to Merripit House. Send back your trap, however, and let them know that you intend to walk home
To walk across the moor
Yes
But that is the very thing which you have so often cautioned me not to do
This time you may do it with safety. If I had not every confidence in your nerve and courage I would not suggest it, but it is essential that you should do it
Then I will do it
And as you value your life do not go across the moor in any direction save along the straight path which leads from Merripit House to the Grimpen Road, and is your natural way home
I will do just what you say
Very good. I should be glad to get away as soon after breakfast as possible, so as to reach London in the afternoon
Any orders, sir
You will take this train to town, Cartwright. The moment you arrive you will send a wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, in my name, to say that if he finds the pocketbook which I have dropped he is to send it by registered post to Baker Street
Yes, sir
And ask at the station office if there is a message for me
That is in answer to mine of this morning. He is the best of the professionals, I think, and we may need his assistance. Now, Watson, I think that we cannot employ our time better than by calling upon your acquaintance, Mrs. Laura Lyons
I am investigating the circumstances which attended the death of the late Sir Charles Baskerville
My friend here, Dr. Watson, has informed me of what you have communicated, and also of what you have withheld in connection with that matter
What have I withheld
You have confessed that you asked Sir Charles to be at the gate at ten o'clock. We know that that was the place and hour of his death. You have withheld what the connection is between these events
There is no connection
In that case the coincidence must indeed be an extraordinary one. But I think that we shall succeed in establishing a connection, after all. I wish to be perfectly frank with you, Mrs. Lyons. We regard this case as one of murder, and the evidence may implicate not only your friend Mr. Stapleton but his wife as well
His wife
The fact is no longer a secret. The person who has passed for his sister is really his wife
His wife
His wife! He is not a married man
Prove it to me! Prove it to me! And if you can do so
I have come prepared to do so
Here is a photograph of the couple taken in York four years ago. It is indorsed 'Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur,' but you will have no difficulty in recognizing him, and her also, if you know her by sight. Here are three written descriptions by trustworthy witnesses of Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur, who at that time kept St. Oliver's private school. Read them and see if you can doubt the identity of these people
Mr. Holmes
this man had offered me marriage on condition that I could get a divorce from my husband. He has lied to me, the villain, in every conceivable way. Not one word of truth has he ever told me. And why -- why? I imagined that all was for my own sake. But now I see that I was never anything but a tool in his hands. Why should I preserve faith with him who never kept any with me? Why should I try to shield him from the consequences of his own wicked acts? Ask me what you like, and there is nothing which I shall hold back. One thing I swear to you, and that is that when I wrote the letter I never dreamed of any harm to the old gentleman, who had been my kindest friend
I entirely believe you, madam
The recital of these events must be very painful to you, and perhaps it will make it easier if I tell you what occurred, and you can check me if I make any material mistake. The sending of this letter was suggested to you by Stapleton
He dictated it
I presume that the reason he gave was that you would receive help from Sir Charles for the legal expenses connected with your divorce
Exactly
And then after you had sent the letter he dissuaded you from keeping the appointment
He told me that it would hurt his self-respect that any other man should find the money for such an object, and that though he was a poor man himself he would devote his last penny to removing the obstacles which divided us
He appears to be a very consistent character. And then you heard nothing until you read the reports of the death in the paper
No
And he made you swear to say nothing about your appointment with Sir Charles
He did. He said that the death was a very mysterious one, and that I should certainly be suspected if the facts came out. He frightened me into remaining silent
Quite so. But you had your suspicions
I knew him
But if he had kept faith with me I should always have done so with him
I think that on the whole you have had a fortunate escape
You have had him in your power and he knew it, and yet you are alive. You have been walking for some months very near to the edge of a precipice. We must wish you good-morning now, Mrs. Lyons, and it is probable that you will very shortly hear from us again
Our case becomes rounded off, and difficulty after difficulty thins away in front of us
I shall soon be in the position of being able to put into a single connected narrative one of the most singular and sensational crimes of modern times. Students of criminology will remember the analogous incidents in Godno, in Little Russia, in the year '66, and of course there are the Anderson murders in North Carolina, but this case possesses some features which are entirely its own. Even now we have no clear case against this very wily man. But I shall be very much surprised if it is not clear enough before we go to bed this night
Anything good
The biggest thing for years
We have two hours before we need think of starting. I think we might employ it in getting some dinner and then, Lestrade, we will take the London fog out of your throat by giving you a breath of the pure night air of Dartmoor. Never been there? Ah, well, I don't suppose you will forget your first visit
Are you armed, Lestrade
As long as I have my trousers I have a hip-pocket, and as long as I have my hip-pocket I have something in it
Good! My friend and I are also ready for emergencies
You're mighty close about this affair, Mr. Holmes. What's the game now
A waiting game
My word, it does not seem a very cheerful place
I see the lights of a house ahead of us
That is Merripit House and the end of our journey. I must request you to walk on tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper
This will do
These rocks upon the right make an admirable screen
We are to wait here
Yes, we shall make our little ambush here. Get into this hollow, Lestrade. You have been inside the house, have you not, Watson? Can you tell the position of the rooms? What are those latticed windows at this end
I think they are the kitchen windows
And the one beyond, which shines so brightly
That is certainly the dining-room
The blinds are up. You know the lie of the land best. Creep forward quietly and see what they are doing -- but for heaven's sake don't let them know that they are watched
You say, Watson, that the lady is not there
No
Where can she be, then, since there is no light in any other room except the kitchen
I cannot think where she is
It's moving towards us, Watson
Is that serious
Very serious, indeed -- the one thing upon earth which could have disarranged my plans. He can't be very long, now. It is already ten o'clock. Our success and even his life may depend upon his coming out before the fog is over the path
If he isn't out in a quarter of an hour the path will be covered. In half an hour we won't be able to see our hands in front of us
Shall we move farther back upon higher ground
Yes, I think it would be as well
We are going too far
We dare not take the chance of his being overtaken before he can reach us. At all costs we must hold our ground where we are
Thank God, I think that I hear him coming
Hist
Look out! It's coming
My God
What was it? What, in heaven's name, was it
It's dead, whatever it is
We've laid the family ghost once and forever
Phosphorus
A cunning preparation of it
There is no smell which might have interfered with his power of scent. We owe you a deep apology, Sir Henry, for having exposed you to this fright. I was prepared for a hound, but not for such a creature as this. And the fog gave us little time to receive him
You have saved my life
Having first endangered it. Are you strong enough to stand
Give me another mouthful of that brandy and I shall be ready for anything. So! Now, if you will help me up. What do you propose to do
To leave you here. You are not fit for further adventures tonight. If you will wait, one or other of us will go back with you to the Hall
We must leave you now
It's a thousand to one against our finding him at the house
Those shots must have told him that the game was up
We were some distance off, and this fog may have deadened them
He followed the hound to call him off -- of that you may be certain. No, no, he's gone by this time! But we'll search the house and make sure
There's someone in here
I can hear a movement. Open this door
The brute
Here, Lestrade, your brandy-bottle! Put her in the chair! She has fainted from ill-usage and exhaustion
Is he safe
Has he escaped
He cannot escape us, madam
No, no, I did not mean my husband. Sir Henry? Is he safe
Yes
And the hound
It is dead
Thank God! Thank God! Oh, this villain! See how he has treated me
But this is nothing -- nothing! It is my mind and soul that he has tortured and defiled. I could endure it all, ill-usage, solitude, a life of deception, everything, as long as I could still cling to the hope that I had his love, but now I know that in this also I have been his dupe and his tool
You bear him no good will, madam
Tell us then where we shall find him. If you have ever aided him in evil, help us now and so atone
There is but one place where he can have fled
There is an old tin mine on an island in the heart of the mire. It was there that he kept his hound and there also he had made preparations so that he might have a refuge. That is where he would fly
See
No one could find his way into the Grimpen Mire tonight
He may find his way in, but never out
How can he see the guiding wands tonight? We planted them together, he and I, to mark the pathway through the mire. Oh, if I could only have plucked them out today. Then indeed you would have had him at your mercy
Meyers, Toronto
It is worth a mud bath
It is our friend Sir Henry's missing boot
Thrown there by Stapleton in his flight
Exactly. He retained it in his hand after using it to set the hound upon the track. He fled when he knew the game was up, still clutching it. And he hurled it away at this point of his flight. We know at least that he came so far in safety
A dog
By Jove, a curly-haired spaniel. Poor Mortimer will never see his pet again. Well, I do not know that this place contains any secret which we have not already fathomed. He could hide his hound, but he could not hush its voice, and hence came those cries which even in daylight were not pleasant to hear. On an emergency he could keep the hound in the out-house at Merripit, but it was always a risk, and it was only on the supreme day, which he regarded as the end of all his efforts, that he dared do it. This paste in the tin is no doubt the luminous mixture with which the creature was daubed. It was suggested, of course, by the story of the family hell-hound, and by the desire to frighten old Sir Charles to death. No wonder the poor devil of a convict ran and screamed, even as our friend did, and as we ourselves might have done, when he saw such a creature bounding through the darkness of the moor upon his track. It was a cunning device, for, apart from the chance of driving your victim to his death, what peasant would venture to inquire too closely into such a creature should he get sight of it, as many have done, upon the moor? I said it in London, Watson, and I say it again now, that never yet have we helped to hunt down a more dangerous man than he who is lying yonder
The whole course of events
from the point of view of the man who called himself Stapleton was simple and direct, although to us, who had no means in the beginning of knowing the motives of his actions and could only learn part of the facts, it all appeared exceedingly complex. I have had the advantage of two conversations with Mrs. Stapleton, and the case has now been so entirely cleared up that I am not aware that there is anything which has remained a secret to us. You will find a few notes upon the matter under the heading B in my indexed list of cases
Perhaps you would kindly give me a sketch of the course of events from memory
Certainly, though I cannot guarantee that I carry all the facts in my mind. Intense mental concentration has a curious way of blotting out what has passed. The barrister who has his case at his fingers' ends and is able to argue with an expert upon his own subject finds that a week or two of the courts will drive it all out of his head once more. So each of my cases displaces the last, and Mlle. Carere has blurred my recollection of Baskerville Hall. Tomorrow some other little problem may be submitted to my notice which will in turn dispossess the fair French lady and the infamous Upwood. So far as the case of the hound goes, however, I will give you the course of events as nearly as I can, and you will suggest anything which I may have forgotten. "My inquiries show beyond all question that the family portrait did not lie, and that this fellow was indeed a Baskerville. He was a son of that Rodger Baskerville, the younger brother of Sir Charles, who fled with a sinister reputation to South America, where he was said to have died unmarried. He did, as a matter of fact, marry, and had one child, this fellow, whose real name is the same as his father's. He married Beryl Garcia, one of the beauties of Costa Rica, and, having purloined a considerable sum of public money, he changed his name to Vandeleur and fled to England, where he established a school in the east of Yorkshire. His reason for attempting this special line of business was that he had struck up an acquaintance with a consumptive tutor upon the voyage home, and that he had used this man's ability to make the undertaking a success. Fraser, the tutor, died however, and the school which had begun well sank from disrepute into infamy. The Vandeleurs found it convenient to change their name to Stapleton, and he brought the remains of his fortune, his schemes for the future, and his taste for entomology to the south of England. I learned at the British Museum that he was a recognized authority upon the subject, and that the name of Vandeleur has been permanently attached to a certain moth which he had, in his Yorkshire days, been the first to describe. 

"We now come to that portion of his life which has proved to be of such intense interest to us. The fellow had evidently made inquiry and found that only two lives intervened between him and a valuable estate. When he went to Devonshire his plans were, I believe, exceedingly hazy, but that he meant mischief from the first is evident from the way in which he took his wife with him in the character of his sister. The idea of using her as a decoy was clearly already in his mind, though he may not have been certain how the details of his plot were to be arranged. He meant in the end to have the estate, and he was ready to use any tool or run any risk for that end. His first act was to establish himself as near to his ancestral home as he could, and his second was to cultivate a friendship with Sir Charles Baskerville and with the neighbours. 

"The baronet himself told him about the family hound, and so prepared the way for his own death. Stapleton, as I will continue to call him, knew that the old man's heart was weak and that a shock would kill him. So much he had learned from Dr. Mortimer. He had heard also that Sir Charles was superstitious and had taken this grim legend very seriously. His ingenious mind instantly suggested a way by which the baronet could be done to death, and yet it would be hardly possible to bring home the guilt to the real murderer. 

"Having conceived the idea he proceeded to carry it out with considerable finesse. An ordinary schemer would have been content to work with a savage hound. The use of artificial means to make the creature diabolical was a flash of genius upon his part. The dog he bought in London from Ross and Mangles, the dealers in Fulham Road. It was the strongest and most savage in their possession. He brought it down by the North Devon line and walked a great distance over the moor so as to get it home without exciting any remarks. He had already on his insect hunts learned to penetrate the Grimpen Mire, and so had found a safe hiding-place for the creature. Here he kennelled it and waited his chance. 

"But it was some time coming. The old gentleman could not be decoyed outside of his grounds at night. Several times Stapleton lurked about with his hound, but without avail. It was during these fruitless quests that he, or rather his ally, was seen by peasants, and that the legend of the demon dog received a new confirmation. He had hoped that his wife might lure Sir Charles to his ruin, but here she proved unexpectedly independent. She would not endeavour to entangle the old gentleman in a sentimental attachment which might deliver him over to his enemy. Threats and even, I am sorry to say, blows refused to move her. She would have nothing to do with it, and for a time Stapleton was at a deadlock. 

"He found a way out of his difficulties through the chance that Sir Charles, who had conceived a friendship for him, made him the minister of his charity in the case of this unfortunate woman, Mrs. Laura Lyons. By representing himself as a single man he acquired complete influence over her, and he gave her to understand that in the event of her obtaining a divorce from her husband he would marry her. His plans were suddenly brought to a head by his knowledge that Sir Charles was about to leave the Hall on the advice of Dr. Mortimer, with whose opinion he himself pretended to coincide. He must act at once, or his victim might get beyond his power. He therefore put pressure upon Mrs. Lyons to write this letter, imploring the old man to give her an interview on the evening before his departure for London. He then, by a specious argument, prevented her from going, and so had the chance for which he had waited. 

"Driving back in the evening from Coombe Tracey he was in time to get his hound, to treat it with his infernal paint, and to bring the beast round to the gate at which he had reason to expect that he would find the old gentleman waiting. The dog, incited by its master, sprang over the wicket-gate and pursued the unfortunate baronet, who fled screaming down the yew alley. In that gloomy tunnel it must indeed have been a dreadful sight to see that huge black creature, with its flaming jaws and blazing eyes, bounding after its victim. He fell dead at the end of the alley from heart disease and terror. The hound had kept upon the grassy border while the baronet had run down the path, so that no track but the man's was visible. On seeing him lying still the creature had probably approached to sniff at him, but finding him dead had turned away again. It was then that it left the print which was actually observed by Dr. Mortimer. The hound was called off and hurried away to its lair in the Grimpen Mire, and a mystery was left which puzzled the authorities, alarmed the countryside, and finally brought the case within the scope of our observation. 

"So much for the death of Sir Charles Baskerville. You perceive the devilish cunning of it, for really it would be almost impossible to make a case against the real murderer. His only accomplice was one who could never give him away, and the grotesque, inconceivable nature of the device only served to make it more effective. Both of the women concerned in the case, Mrs. Stapleton and Mrs. Laura Lyons, were left with a strong suspicion against Stapleton. Mrs. Stapleton knew that he had designs upon the old man, and also of the existence of the hound. Mrs. Lyons knew neither of these things, but had been impressed by the death occurring at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was only known to him. However, both of them were under his influence, and he had nothing to fear from them. The first half of his task was successfully accomplished but the more difficult still remained. 

"It is possible that Stapleton did not know of the existence of an heir in Canada. In any case he would very soon learn it from his friend Dr. Mortimer, and he was told by the latter all details about the arrival of Henry Baskerville. Stapleton's first idea was that this young stranger from Canada might possibly be done to death in London without coming down to Devonshire at all. He distrusted his wife ever since she had refused to help him in laying a trap for the old man, and he dared not leave her long out of his sight for fear he should lose his influence over her. It was for this reason that he took her to London with him. They lodged, I find, at the Mexborough Private Hotel, in Craven Street, which was actually one of those called upon by my agent in search of evidence. Here he kept his wife imprisoned in her room while he, disguised in a beard, followed Dr. Mortimer to Baker Street and afterwards to the station and to the Northumberland Hotel. His wife had some inkling of his plans; but she had such a fear of her husband -- a fear founded upon brutal ill-treatment -- that she dare not write to warn the man whom she knew to be in danger. If the letter should fall into Stapleton's hands her own life would not be safe. Eventually, as we know, she adopted the expedient of cutting out the words which would form the message, and addressing the letter in a disguised hand. It reached the baronet, and gave him the first warning of his danger. 

"It was very essential for Stapleton to get some article of Sir Henry's attire so that, in case he was driven to use the dog, he might always have the means of setting him upon his track. With characteristic promptness and audacity he set about this at once, and we cannot doubt that the boots or chamber-maid of the hotel was well bribed to help him in his design. By chance, however, the first boot which was procured for him was a new one and, therefore, useless for his purpose. He then had it returned and obtained another -- a most instructive incident, since it proved conclusively to my mind that we were dealing with a real hound, as no other supposition could explain this anxiety to obtain an old boot and this indifference to a new one. The more outre and grotesque an incident is the more carefully it deserves to be examined, and the very point which appears to complicate a case is, when duly considered and scientifically handled, the one which is most likely to elucidate it. 

"Then we had the visit from our friends next morning, shadowed always by Stapleton in the cab. From his knowledge of our rooms and of my appearance, as well as from his general conduct, I am inclined to think that Stapleton's career of crime has been by no means limited to this single Baskerville affair. It is suggestive that during the last three years there have been four considerable burglaries in the west country, for none of which was any criminal ever arrested. The last of these, at Folkestone Court, in May, was remarkable for the cold-blooded pistolling of the page, who surprised the masked and solitary burglar. I cannot doubt that Stapleton recruited his waning resources in this fashion, and that for years he has been a desperate and dangerous man. 

"We had an example of his readiness of resource that morning when he got away from us so successfully, and also of his audacity in sending back my own name to me through the cabman. From that moment he understood that I had taken over the case in London, and that therefore there was no chance for him there. He returned to Dartmoor and awaited the arrival of the baronet
One moment
You have, no doubt, described the sequence of events correctly, but there is one point which you have left unexplained. What became of the hound when its master was in London
I have given some attention to this matter and it is undoubtedly of importance. There can be no question that Stapleton had a confidant, though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in his power by sharing all his plans with him. There was an old manservant at Merripit House, whose name was Anthony. His connection with the Stapletons can be traced for several years, as far back as the schoolmastering days, so that he must have been aware that his master and mistress were really husband and wife. This man has disappeared and has escaped from the country. It is suggestive that Anthony is not a common name in England, while Antonio is so in all Spanish or Spanish-American countries. The man, like Mrs. Stapleton herself, spoke good English, but with a curious lisping accent. I have myself seen this old man cross the Grimpen Mire by the path which Stapleton had marked out. It is very probable, therefore, that in the absence of his master it was he who cared for the hound, though he may never have known the purpose for which the beast was used. "The Stapletons then went down to Devonshire, whither they were soon followed by Sir Henry and you. One word now as to how I stood myself at that time. It may possibly recur to your memory that when I examined the paper upon which the printed words were fastened I made a close inspection for the water-mark. In doing so I held it within a few inches of my eyes, and was conscious of a faint smell of the scent known as white jessamine. There are seventy-five perfumes, which it is very necessary that a criminal expert should be able to distinguish from each other, and cases have more than once within my own experience depended upon their prompt recognition. The scent suggested the presence of a lady, and already my thoughts began to turn towards the Stapletons. Thus I had made certain of the hound, and had guessed at the criminal before ever we went to the west country. 

"It was my game to watch Stapleton. It was evident, however, that I could not do this if I were with you, since he would be keenly on his guard. I deceived everybody, therefore, yourself included, and I came down secretly when I was supposed to be in London. My hardships were not so great as you imagined, though such trifling details must never interfere with the investigation of a case. I stayed for the most part at Coombe Tracey, and only used the hut upon the moor when it was necessary to be near the scene of action. Cartwright had come down with me, and in his disguise as a country boy he was of great assistance to me. I was dependent upon him for food and clean linen. When I was watching Stapleton, Cartwright was frequently watching you, so that I was able to keep my hand upon all the strings. 

"I have already told you that your reports reached me rapidly, being forwarded instantly from Baker Street to Coombe Tracey. They were of great service to me, and especially that one incidentally truthful piece of biography of Stapleton's. I was able to establish the identity of the man and the woman and knew at last exactly how I stood. The case had been considerably complicated through the incident of the escaped convict and the relations between him and the Barrymores. This also you cleared up in a very effective way, though I had already come to the same conclusions from my own observations. 

"By the time that you discovered me upon the moor I had a complete knowledge of the whole business, but I had not a case which could go to a jury. Even Stapleton's attempt upon Sir Henry that night which ended in the death of the unfortunate convict did not help us much in proving murder against our man. There seemed to be no alternative but to catch him red-handed, and to do so we had to use Sir Henry, alone and apparently unprotected, as a bait. We did so, and at the cost of a severe shock to our client we succeeded in completing our case and driving Stapleton to his destruction. That Sir Henry should have been exposed to this is, I must confess, a reproach to my management of the case, but we had no means of foreseeing the terrible and paralyzing spectacle which the beast presented, nor could we predict the fog which enabled him to burst upon us at such short notice. We succeeded in our object at a cost which both the specialist and Dr. Mortimer assure me will be a temporary one. A long journey may enable our friend to recover not only from his shattered nerves but also from his wounded feelings. His love for the lady was deep and sincere, and to him the saddest part of all this black business was that he should have been deceived by her. 

"It only remains to indicate the part which she had played throughout. There can be no doubt that Stapleton exercised an influence over her which may have been love or may have been fear, or very possibly both, since they are by no means incompatible emotions. It was, at least, absolutely effective. At his command she consented to pass as his sister, though he found the limits of his power over her when he endeavoured to make her the direct accessory to murder. She was ready to warn Sir Henry so far as she could without implicating her husband, and again and again she tried to do so. Stapleton himself seems to have been capable of jealousy, and when he saw the baronet paying court to the lady, even though it was part of his own plan, still he could not help interrupting with a passionate outburst which revealed the fiery soul which his self-contained manner so cleverly concealed. By encouraging the intimacy he made it certain that Sir Henry would frequently come to Merripit House and that he would sooner or later get the opportunity which he desired. On the day of the crisis, however, his wife turned suddenly against him. She had learned something of the death of the convict, and she knew that the hound was being kept in the outhouse on the evening that Sir Henry was coming to dinner. She taxed her husband with his intended crime, and a furious scene followed in which he showed her for the first time that she had a rival in his love. Her fidelity turned in an instant to bitter hatred, and he saw that she would betray him. He tied her up, therefore, that she might have no chance of warning Sir Henry, and he hoped, no doubt, that when the whole countryside put down the baronet's death to the curse of his family, as they certainly would do, he could win his wife back to accept an accomplished fact and to keep silent upon what she knew. In this I fancy that in any case he made a miscalculation, and that, if we had not been there, his doom would none the less have been sealed. A woman of Spanish blood does not condone such an injury so lightly. And now, my dear Watson, without referring to my notes, I cannot give you a more detailed account of this curious case. I do not know that anything essential has been left unexplained
He could not hope to frighten Sir Henry to death as he had done the old uncle with his bogie hound
The beast was savage and half-starved. If its appearance did not frighten its victim to death, at least it would paralyze the resistance which might be offered
No doubt. There only remains one difficulty. If Stapleton came into the succession, how could he explain the fact that he, the heir, had been living unannounced under another name so close to the property? How could he claim it without causing suspicion and inquiry
It is a formidable difficulty, and I fear that you ask too much when you expect me to solve it. The past and the present are within the field of my inquiry, but what a man may do in the future is a hard question to answer. Mrs. Stapleton has heard her husband discuss the problem on several occasions. There were three possible courses. He might claim the property from South America, establish his identity before the British authorities there and so obtain the fortune without ever coming to England at all, or he might adopt an elaborate disguise during the short time that he need be in London; or, again, he might furnish an accomplice with the proofs and papers, putting him in as heir, and retaining a claim upon some proportion of his income. We cannot doubt from what we know of him that he would have found some way out of the difficulty. And now, my dear Watson, we have had some weeks of severe work, and for one evening, I think, we may turn our thoughts into more pleasant channels. I have a box for 'Les Huguenots.' Have you heard the De Reszkes? Might I trouble you then to be ready in half an hour, and we can stop at Marcini's for a little dinner on the way
</text>
