<text>
A man
is SO in the way in the house
What does it signify how we dress here at Cranford, where everybody knows us
What does it signify how we dress here, where nobody knows us
a stick in petticoats
they will give you some rest to-morrow, but the next day, I have no doubt, they will call; so be at liberty after twelve -- from twelve to three are our calling hours
It is the third day; I dare say your mamma has told you, my dear, never to let more than three days elapse between receiving a call and returning it; and also, that you are never to stay longer than a quarter of an hour
But am I to look at my watch? How am I to find out when a quarter of an hour has passed
You must keep thinking about the time, my dear, and not allow yourself to forget it in conversation
elegant economy
Elegant economy
elegant
Get her a flannel waistcoat and flannel drawers, ma'am, if you wish to keep her alive. But my advice is, kill the poor creature at once
that she thought it was time for Miss Jessie to leave off her dimples, and not always to be trying to look like a child
Preference
through my uncle, who has the best assortment of Shetland goods of any one in Edinbro
Have you seen any numbers of 'The Pickwick
Capital thing
Yes, she had seen them; indeed, she might say she had read them
And what do you think of them
Aren't they famously good
I must say, I don't think they are by any means equal to Dr Johnson. Still, perhaps, the author is young. Let him persevere, and who knows what he may become if he will take the great Doctor for his model
It is quite a different sort of thing, my dear madam
I am quite aware of that
And I make allowances, Captain Brown
Just allow me to read you a scene out of this month's number
I had it only this morning, and I don't think the company can have read it yet
As you please
Fetch me 'Rasselas,' my dear, out of the book-room
Now allow me to read you a scene, and then the present company can judge between your favourite, Mr Boz, and Dr Johnson
I imagine I am now justified in my preference of Dr Johnson as a writer of fiction
I consider it vulgar, and below the dignity of literature, to publish in numbers
How was the Rambler published, ma'am
Dr Johnson's style is a model for young beginners. My father recommended it to me when I began to write letters -- I have formed my own style upon it; I recommended it to your favourite
I should be very sorry for him to exchange his style for any such pompous writing
I prefer Dr Johnson to Mr Boz
D-n Dr Johnson
After all, the Sunday morning's occurrence showed great goodness of heart
The Honourable Mrs Jamieson has only just quitted me; and, in the course of conversation, she communicated to me the intelligence that she had yesterday received a call from her revered husband's quondam friend, Lord Mauleverer. You will not easily conjecture what brought his lordship within the precincts of our little town. It was to see Captain Brown, with whom, it appears, his lordship was acquainted in the 'plumed wars,' and who had the privilege of averting destruction from his lordship's head when some great peril was impending over it, off the misnomered Cape of Good Hope. You know our friend the Honourable Mrs Jamieson's deficiency in the spirit of innocent curiosity, and you will therefore not be so much surprised when I tell you she was quite unable to disclose to me the exact nature of the peril in question. I was anxious, I confess, to ascertain in what manner Captain Brown, with his limited establishment, could receive so distinguished a guest; and I discovered that his lordship retired to rest, and, let us hope, to refreshing slumbers, at the Angel Hotel; but shared the Brunonian meals during the two days that he honoured Cranford with his august presence. Mrs Johnson, our civil butcher's wife, informs me that Miss Jessie purchased a leg of lamb; but, besides this, I can hear of no preparation whatever to give a suitable reception to so distinguished a visitor. Perhaps they entertained him with 'the feast of reason and the flow of soul'; and to us, who are acquainted with Captain Brown's sad want of relish for 'the pure wells of English undefiled,' it may be matter for congratulation that he has had the opportunity of improving his taste by holding converse with an elegant and refined member of the British aristocracy. But from some mundane failings who is altogether free
raw
She suffers a great deal, and she must suffer more: we do what we can to alleviate her pain;-- God's will be done
I really think she's an angel
To see her way of bearing with Miss Brown's crossness, and the bright face she puts on after she's been sitting up a whole night and scolded above half of it, is quite beautiful. Yet she looks as neat and as ready to welcome the Captain at breakfast-time as if she had been asleep in the Queen's bed all night. My dear! you could never laugh at her prim little curls or her pink bows again if you saw her as I have done
But, to be sure, what a town Cranford is for kindness! I don't suppose any one has a better dinner than usual cooked but the best part of all comes in a little covered basin for my sister. The poor people will leave their earliest vegetables at our door for her. They speak short and gruff, as if they were ashamed of it: but I am sure it often goes to my heart to see their thoughtfulness
But why does not this Lord Mauleverer do something for the man who saved his life
Why, you see, unless Captain Brown has some reason for it, he never speaks about being poor; and he walked along by his lordship looking as happy and cheerful as a prince; and as they never called attention to their dinner by apologies, and as Miss Brown was better that day, and all seemed bright, I daresay his lordship never knew how much care there was in the background. He did send game in the winter pretty often, but now he is gone abroad
What Jessie has been to us, God only knows
Oh, ma'am! Oh, Miss Jenkyns, ma'am! Captain Brown is killed by them nasty cruel railroads
How?-- where -- where? Good God! Jenny, don't waste time in crying, but tell us something
Come in -- come to my sister at once, Miss Jenkyns, the rector's daughter. Oh, man, man! say it is not true
Please, mum, it is true. I seed it myself
The Captain was a-reading some new book as he was deep in, a-waiting for the down train; and there was a little lass as wanted to come to its mammy, and gave its sister the slip, and came toddling across the line. And he looked up sudden, at the sound of the train coming, and seed the child, and he darted on the line and cotched it up, and his foot slipped, and the train came over him in no time. O Lord, Lord! Mum, it's quite true, and they've come over to tell his daughters. The child's safe, though, with only a bang on its shoulder as he threw it to its mammy. Poor Captain would be glad of that, mum, wouldn't he? God bless him
Matilda, bring me my bonnet. I must go to those girls. God pardon me, if ever I have spoken contemptuously to the Captain
Mr Hoggins says she cannot live many days, and she shall be spared this shock
But how can you manage, my dear
you cannot bear up, she must see your tears
God will help me -- I will not give way -- she was asleep when the news came; she may be asleep yet. She would be so utterly miserable, not merely at my father's death, but to think of what would become of me; she is so good to me
gallant gentleman was deeply engaged in the perusal of a number of 'Pickwick,' which he had just received
Poor, dear, infatuated man
It is not fit for you to go alone. It would be against both propriety and humanity were I to allow it
Oh, Jessie! Jessie! How selfish I have been! God forgive me for letting you sacrifice yourself for me as you did! I have so loved you -- and yet I have thought only of myself. God forgive me
Hush, love! hush
And my father, my dear, dear father! I will not complain now, if God will give me strength to be patient. But, oh, Jessie! tell my father how I longed and yearned to see him at last, and to ask his forgiveness. He can never know now how I loved him -- oh! if I might but tell him, before I die! What a life of sorrow his has been, and I have done so little to cheer him
Would it comfort you, dearest, to think that he does know?-- would it comfort you, love, to know that his cares, his sorrows
Mary! he has gone before you to the place where the weary are at rest. He knows now how you loved him
Father, mother, Harry, Archy
But you will be alone, Jessie
Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him
I can sew neatly
and I like nursing. I think, too, I could manage a house, if any one would try me as housekeeper; or I would go into a shop as saleswoman, if they would have patience with me at first
some people having no idea of their rank as a captain's daughter
A gentleman, my dear, who wants to know if you would see him
Is it?-- it is not
This is his card
May he come up
Oh, yes! certainly
Oh, goodness me
Deborah, there's a gentleman sitting in the drawing-room with his arm round Miss Jessie's waist
The most proper place in the world for his arm to be in. Go away, Matilda, and mind your own business
Ah
better than that strange old book, with the queer name, poor Captain Brown was killed for reading -- that book by Mr Boz, you know --'Old Poz'; when I was a girl -- but that's a long time ago -- I acted Lucy in 'Old Poz
Christmas Carol
Hortus Siccus
for
since my dear sister's death I am well aware I have no attractions to offer; it is only to the kindness of my friends that I can owe their company
Dear Miss Matty
My dear, I'd rather you did not call me Matty. She did not like it; but I did many a thing she did not like, I'm afraid -- and now she's gone! If you please, my love, will you call me Matilda
Have you drawers enough, dear
I don't know exactly how my sister used to arrange them. She had capital methods. I am sure she would have trained a servant in a week to make a better fire than this, and Fanny has been with me four months
Please, ma'am, I never had more than one at a time
for you know, miss
I don't see a creature from six o'clock tea, till Missus rings the bell for prayers at ten
my father, the rector's house
Army List
Oh! how must I manage
If Deborah had been alive she would have known what to do with a gentleman- visitor. Must I put razors in his dressing-room? Dear! dear! and I've got none. Deborah would have had them. And slippers, and coat-brushes
And after dinner, how am I to know when to get up and leave him to his wine? Deborah would have done it so well; she would have been quite in her element. Will he want coffee, do you think
Hand the vegetables round
take the vegetables round to people, and let them help themselves
And mind you go first to the ladies
Always go to the ladies before gentlemen when you are waiting
I'll do it as you tell me, ma'am
but I like lads best
Leave me, leave me to repose
pride which apes humility
And how came Miss Matilda not to marry him
Oh, I don't know. She was willing enough, I think; but you know Cousin Thomas would not have been enough of a gentleman for the rector and Miss Jenkyns
Well! but they were not to marry him
No; but they did not like Miss Matty to marry below her rank. You know she was the rector's daughter, and somehow they are related to Sir Peter Arley: Miss Jenkyns thought a deal of that
Poor Miss Matty
Nay, now, I don't know anything more than that he offered and was refused. Miss Matty might not like him -- and Miss Jenkyns might never have said a word -- it is only a guess of mine
Has she never seen him since
No, I think not. You see Woodley, Cousin Thomas's house, lies half-way between Cranford and Misselton; and I know he made Misselton his market-town very soon after he had offered to Miss Matty; and I don't think he has been into Cranford above once or twice since -- once, when I was walking with Miss Matty, in High Street, and suddenly she darted from me, and went up Shire Lane. A few minutes after I was startled by meeting Cousin Thomas
How old is he
He must be about seventy, I think, my dear
What can I have the pleasure of showing you to-day, sir
Matty -- Miss Matilda -- Miss Jenkyns! God bless my soul! I should not have known you. How are you? how are you
I should not have known you
Another time, sir! another time
My cousin might make a drive, I think
I think it is very pretty
my Lord Byrron
As Goethe says, 'Ye ever-verdant palaces
Ah
we farmers ought not to have much time for reading; yet somehow one can't help it
What a pretty room
What a pleasant place
Nay! if you like it
but can you sit on these great, black leather, three-cornered chairs? I like it better than the best parlour; but I thought ladies would take that for the smarter place
I don't know whether you like newfangled ways
Oh, not at all
No more do I
My house-keeper WILL have these in her new fashion; or else I tell her that, when I was a young man, we used to keep strictly to my father's rule, 'No broth, no ball; no ball, no beef'; and always began dinner with broth. Then we had suet puddings, boiled in the broth with the beef: and then the meat itself. If we did not sup our broth, we had no ball, which we liked a deal better; and the beef came last of all, and only those had it who had done justice to the broth and the ball. Now folks begin with sweet things, and turn their dinners topsy-turvy
It is very pleasant dining with a bachelor
I only hope it is not improper; so many pleasant things are
What a number of books he has
And how dusty they are
I think it must be like one of the great Dr Johnson's rooms
What a superior man your cousin must be
Yes
he's a great reader; but I am afraid he has got into very uncouth habits with living alone
Oh! uncouth is too hard a word. I should call him eccentric; very clever people always are
The cedar spreads his dark-green layers of shade
Capital term --'layers!' Wonderful man
wonderful
Ay! you may say 'wonderful.' Why, when I saw the review of his poems in Blackwood, I set off within an hour, and walked seven miles to Misselton (for the horses were not in the way) and ordered them. Now, what colour are ash-buds in March
What colour are they, I say
I am sure I don't know, sir
I knew you didn't. No more did I -- an old fool that I am!-- till this young man comes and tells me. Black as ash-buds in March. And I've lived all my life in the country; more shame for me not to know. Black: they are jet-black, madam
Locksley Hall
What a pretty book
Pretty, madam! it's beautiful! Pretty, indeed
It is so like that beautiful poem of Dr Johnson's my sister used to read -- I forget the name of it; what was it, my dear
Which do you mean, ma'am? What was it about
I don't remember what it was about, and I've quite forgotten what the name of it was; but it was written by Dr Johnson, and was very beautiful, and very like what Mr Holbrook has just been reading
I don't remember it
But I don't know Dr Johnson's poems well. I must read them
follower
Eh! dear ma'am, to think of your going out in an evening in such a thin shawl! It's no better than muslin. At your age, ma'am, you should be careful
My age
My age! Why, how old do you think I am, that you talk about my age
Well, ma'am, I should say you were not far short of sixty: but folks' looks is often against them -- and I'm sure I meant no harm
Martha, I'm not yet fifty-two
Well, madam! have you any commands for Paris? I am going there in a week or two
To Paris
Yes, madam! I've never been there, and always had a wish to go; and I think if I don't go soon, I mayn't go at all; so as soon as the hay is got in I shall go, before harvest time
God bless my soul, madam! but I nearly forgot half my errand. Here are the poems for you you admired so much the other evening at my house
Good- bye, miss
good-bye, Matty! take care of yourself
I wish he would not go to Paris
I don't believe frogs will agree with him; he used to have to be very careful what he ate, which was curious in so strong-looking a young man
How long has your mistress been so poorly
Well! I think its better than a fortnight; it is, I know; it was one Tuesday, after Miss Pole had been, that she went into this moping way. I thought she was tired, and it would go off with a night's rest; but no! she has gone on and on ever since, till I thought it my duty to write to you, ma'am
You did quite right, Martha. It is a comfort to think she has so faithful a servant about her. And I hope you find your place comfortable
Well, ma'am, missus is very kind, and there's plenty to eat and drink, and no more work but what I can do easily -- but
But what, Martha
Why, it seems so hard of missus not to let me have any followers; there's such lots of young fellows in the town; and many a one has as much as offered to keep company with me; and I may never be in such a likely place again, and it's like wasting an opportunity. Many a girl as I know would have 'em unbeknownst to missus; but I've given my word, and I'll stick to it; or else this is just the house for missus never to be the wiser if they did come: and it's such a capable kitchen -- there's such dark corners in it -- I'd be bound to hide any one. I counted up last Sunday night -- for I'll not deny I was crying because I had to shut the door in Jem Hearn's face, and he's a steady young man, fit for any girl; only I had given missus my word
And now I must go back with you, my dear, for I promised to let her know how Thomas Holbrook went on; and, I'm sorry to say, his housekeeper has sent me word to-day that he hasn't long to live. Poor Thomas! that journey to Paris was quite too much for him. His housekeeper says he has hardly ever been round his fields since, but just sits with his hands on his knees in the counting-house, not reading or anything, but only saying what a wonderful city Paris was! Paris has much to answer for if it's killed my cousin Thomas, for a better man never lived
Does Miss Matilda know of his illness
Dear! to be sure, yes! Has not she told you? I let her know a fortnight ago, or more, when first I heard of it. How odd she shouldn't have told you
To think of that pleasant day last June, when he seemed so well! And he might have lived this dozen years if he had not gone to that wicked Paris, where they are always having revolutions
But she wears widows' caps, ma'am
Oh! I only meant something in that style; not widows', of course, but rather like Mrs Jamieson's
Martha
you are young
Yes, please, ma'am; two-and-twenty last third of October, please, ma'am
And, perhaps, Martha, you may some time meet with a young man you like, and who likes you. I did say you were not to have followers; but if you meet with such a young man, and tell me, and I find he is respectable, I have no objection to his coming to see you once a week. God forbid
that I should grieve any young hearts
Please, ma'am, there's Jem Hearn, and he's a joiner making three- and-sixpence a-day, and six foot one in his stocking-feet, please, ma'am; and if you'll ask about him to-morrow morning, every one will give him a character for steadiness; and he'll be glad enough to come to-morrow night, I'll be bound
keep blind man's holiday
blind man's holiday
Letters interchanged between my ever-honoured father and my dearly-beloved mother, prior to their marriage, in July 1774
Paduasoy
Paduasoy
From my dearest John
We must burn them, I think
No one will care for them when I am gone
Letter of pious congratulation and exhortation from my venerable grandfather to my beloved mother, on occasion of my own birth. Also some practical remarks on the desirability of keeping warm the extremities of infants, from my excellent grandmother
T.O
my dear, dearest Molly
the prettiest little baby that ever was seen. Dear mother, I wish you could see her! Without any pershality, I do think she will grow up a regular bewty
My dearest John
My Honoured Husband
My Lord Judge
publishing by request
I shall ever hold the virtuous qualities of my Molly in remembrance, dum memor ipse mei, dum spiritus regit artus
idealised his Molly
People talk a great deal about idealising now-a-days, whatever that may mean
Maria
Hebrew verses sent me by my honoured husband. I thowt to have had a letter about killing the pig, but must wait. Mem., to send the poetry to Sir Peter Arley, as my husband desires
forrard
little Matty might not be vain, even if she were a bewty
I had very pretty hair, my dear
and not a bad mouth
a vale of tears
Epictetus
I canna be fashed
Herod Petrarch of Etruria
How trivial, my dear father, do all our apprehensions of the last evening appear, at the present moment, to calm and enquiring minds
But, indeed, my dear, they were not at all trivial or trifling at the time. I know I used to wake up in the night many a time and think I heard the tramp of the French entering Cranford. Many people talked of hiding themselves in the salt mines -- and meat would have kept capitally down there, only perhaps we should have been thirsty. And my father preached a whole set of sermons on the occasion; one set in the mornings, all about David and Goliath, to spirit up the people to fighting with spades or bricks, if need were; and the other set in the afternoons, proving that Napoleon (that was another name for Bony, as we used to call him) was all the same as an Apollyon and Abaddon. I remember my father rather thought he should be asked to print this last set; but the parish had, perhaps, had enough of them with hearing
poor Peter
Mother dear, do send me a cake, and put plenty of citron in
goody
You have not got that town in your map of Ireland; but Bonus Bernardus non videt omnia, as the Proverbia say
My dear, dear, dear, dearest mother, I will be a better boy; I will, indeed; but don't, please, be ill for me; I am not worth it; but I will be good, darling mother
Poor Peter
he was always in scrapes; he was too easy. They led him wrong, and then left him in the lurch. But he was too fond of mischief. He could never resist a joke. Poor Peter
My poor mother
I remember how she used to stand in the hall, just near enough the study-door, to catch the tone of my father's voice. I could tell in a moment if all was going right, by her face. And it did go right for a long time
What went wrong at last
That tiresome Latin, I dare say
No! it was not the Latin. Peter was in high favour with my father, for he worked up well for him. But he seemed to think that the Cranford people might be joked about, and made fun of, and they did not like it; nobody does. He was always hoaxing them; 'hoaxing' is not a pretty word, my dear, and I hope you won't tell your father I used it, for I should not like him to think that I was not choice in my language, after living with such a woman as Deborah. And be sure you never use it yourself. I don't know how it slipped out of my mouth, except it was that I was thinking of poor Peter and it was always his expression. But he was a very gentlemanly boy in many things. He was like dear Captain Brown in always being ready to help any old person or a child. Still, he did like joking and making fun; and he seemed to think the old ladies in Cranford would believe anything. There were many old ladies living here then; we are principally ladies now, I know, but we are not so old as the ladies used to be when I was a girl. I could laugh to think of some of Peter's jokes. No, my dear, I won't tell you of them, because they might not shock you as they ought to do, and they were very shocking. He even took in my father once, by dressing himself up as a lady that was passing through the town and wished to see the Rector of Cranford, 'who had published that admirable Assize Sermon.' Peter said he was awfully frightened himself when he saw how my father took it all in, and even offered to copy out all his Napoleon Buonaparte sermons for her -- him, I mean -- no, her, for Peter was a lady then. He told me he was more terrified than he ever was before, all the time my father was speaking. He did not think my father would have believed him; and yet if he had not, it would have been a sad thing for Peter. As it was, he was none so glad of it, for my father kept him hard at work copying out all those twelve Buonaparte sermons for the lady -- that was for Peter himself, you know. He was the lady. And once when he wanted to go fishing, Peter said, 'Confound the woman!'-- very bad language, my dear, but Peter was not always so guarded as he should have been; my father was so angry with him, it nearly frightened me out of my wits: and yet I could hardly keep from laughing at the little curtseys Peter kept making, quite slyly, whenever my father spoke of the lady's excellent taste and sound discrimination
Did Miss Jenkyns know of these tricks
Oh, no! Deborah would have been too much shocked. No, no one knew but me. I wish I had always known of Peter's plans; but sometimes he did not tell me. He used to say the old ladies in the town wanted something to talk about; but I don't think they did. They had the St James's Chronicle three times a week, just as we have now, and we have plenty to say; and I remember the clacking noise there always was when some of the ladies got together. But, probably, schoolboys talk more than ladies. At last there was a terrible, sad thing happened
I will lock the door after you, Martha. You are not afraid to go, are you
No, ma'am, not at all; Jem Hearn will be only too proud to go with me
We'll put out the candle, my dear. We can talk just as well by firelight, you know. There! Well, you see, Deborah had gone from home for a fortnight or so; it was a very still, quiet day, I remember, overhead; and the lilacs were all in flower, so I suppose it was spring. My father had gone out to see some sick people in the parish; I recollect seeing him leave the house with his wig and shovel-hat and cane. What possessed our poor Peter I don't know; he had the sweetest temper, and yet he always seemed to like to plague Deborah. She never laughed at his jokes, and thought him ungenteel, and not careful enough about improving his mind; and that vexed him. "Well! he went to her room, it seems, and dressed himself in her old gown, and shawl, and bonnet; just the things she used to wear in Cranford, and was known by everywhere; and he made the pillow into a little -- you are sure you locked the door, my dear, for I should not like anyone to hear -- into -- into a little baby, with white long clothes. It was only, as he told me afterwards, to make something to talk about in the town; he never thought of it as affecting Deborah. And he went and walked up and down in the Filbert walk -- just half-hidden by the rails, and half-seen; and he cuddled his pillow, just like a baby, and talked to it all the nonsense people do. Oh dear! and my father came stepping stately up the street, as he always did; and what should he see but a little black crowd of people -- I daresay as many as twenty -- all peeping through his garden rails. So he thought, at first, they were only looking at a new rhododendron that was in full bloom, and that he was very proud of; and he walked slower, that they might have more time to admire. And he wondered if he could make out a sermon from the occasion, and thought, perhaps, there was some relation between the rhododendrons and the lilies of the field. My poor father! When he came nearer, he began to wonder that they did not see him; but their heads were all so close together, peeping and peeping! My father was amongst them, meaning, he said, to ask them to walk into the garden with him, and admire the beautiful vegetable production, when -- oh, my dear, I tremble to think of it -- he looked through the rails himself, and saw -- I don't know what he thought he saw, but old Clare told me his face went quite grey- white with anger, and his eyes blazed out under his frowning black brows; and he spoke out -- oh, so terribly!-- and bade them all stop where they were -- not one of them to go, not one of them to stir a step; and, swift as light, he was in at the garden door, and down the Filbert walk, and seized hold of poor Peter, and tore his clothes off his back -- bonnet, shawl, gown, and all -- and threw the pillow among the people over the railings: and then he was very, very angry indeed, and before all the people he lifted up his cane and flogged Peter! 

"My dear, that boy's trick, on that sunny day, when all seemed going straight and well, broke my mother's heart, and changed my father for life. It did, indeed. Old Clare said, Peter looked as white as my father; and stood as still as a statue to be flogged; and my father struck hard! When my father stopped to take breath, Peter said, 'Have you done enough, sir?' quite hoarsely, and still standing quite quiet. I don't know what my father said -- or if he said anything. But old Clare said, Peter turned to where the people outside the railing were, and made them a low bow, as grand and as grave as any gentleman; and then walked slowly into the house. I was in the store-room helping my mother to make cowslip wine. I cannot abide the wine now, nor the scent of the flowers; they turn me sick and faint, as they did that day, when Peter came in, looking as haughty as any man -- indeed, looking like a man, not like a boy. 'Mother!' he said, 'I am come to say, God bless you for ever.' I saw his lips quiver as he spoke; and I think he durst not say anything more loving, for the purpose that was in his heart. She looked at him rather frightened, and wondering, and asked him what was to do. He did not smile or speak, but put his arms round her and kissed her as if he did not know how to leave off; and before she could speak again, he was gone. We talked it over, and could not understand it, and she bade me go and seek my father, and ask what it was all about. I found him walking up and down, looking very highly displeased. 

"'Tell your mother I have flogged Peter, and that he richly deserved it.' 

"I durst not ask any more questions. When I told my mother, she sat down, quite faint, for a minute. I remember, a few days after, I saw the poor, withered cowslip flowers thrown out to the leaf heap, to decay and die there. There was no making of cowslip wine that year at the rectory -- nor, indeed, ever after. 

"Presently my mother went to my father. I know I thought of Queen Esther and King Ahasuerus; for my mother was very pretty and delicate-looking, and my father looked as terrible as King Ahasuerus. Some time after they came out together; and then my mother told me what had happened, and that she was going up to Peter's room at my father's desire -- though she was not to tell Peter this -- to talk the matter over with him. But no Peter was there. We looked over the house; no Peter was there! Even my father, who had not liked to join in the search at first, helped us before long. The rectory was a very old house -- steps up into a room, steps down into a room, all through. At first, my mother went calling low and soft, as if to reassure the poor boy, 'Peter! Peter, dear! it's only me;' but, by-and-by, as the servants came back from the errands my father had sent them, in different directions, to find where Peter was -- as we found he was not in the garden, nor the hayloft, nor anywhere about -- my mother's cry grew louder and wilder, Peter! Peter, my darling! where are you?' for then she felt and understood that that long kiss meant some sad kind of 'good-bye.' The afternoon went on -- my mother never resting, but seeking again and again in every possible place that had been looked into twenty times before, nay, that she had looked into over and over again herself. My father sat with his head in his hands, not speaking except when his messengers came in, bringing no tidings; then he lifted up his face, so strong and sad, and told them to go again in some new direction. My mother kept passing from room to room, in and out of the house, moving noiselessly, but never ceasing. Neither she nor my father durst leave the house, which was the meeting-place for all the messengers. At last (and it was nearly dark), my father rose up. He took hold of my mother's arm as she came with wild, sad pace through one door, and quickly towards another. She started at the touch of his hand, for she had forgotten all in the world but Peter. 

"'Molly!' said he, 'I did not think all this would happen.' He looked into her face for comfort -- her poor face all wild and white; for neither she nor my father had dared to acknowledge -- much less act upon -- the terror that was in their hearts, lest Peter should have made away with himself. My father saw no conscious look in his wife's hot, dreary eyes, and he missed the sympathy that she had always been ready to give him -- strong man as he was, and at the dumb despair in her face his tears began to flow. But when she saw this, a gentle sorrow came over her countenance, and she said, 'Dearest John! don't cry; come with me, and we'll find him,' almost as cheerfully as if she knew where he was. And she took my father's great hand in her little soft one, and led him along, the tears dropping as he walked on that same unceasing, weary walk, from room to room, through house and garden. 

"Oh, how I wished for Deborah! I had no time for crying, for now all seemed to depend on me. I wrote for Deborah to come home. I sent a message privately to that same Mr Holbrook's house -- poor Mr Holbrook;-- you know who I mean. I don't mean I sent a message to him, but I sent one that I could trust to know if Peter was at his house. For at one time Mr Holbrook was an occasional visitor at the rectory -- you know he was Miss Pole's cousin -- and he had been very kind to Peter, and taught him how to fish -- he was very kind to everybody, and I thought Peter might have gone off there. But Mr Holbrook was from home, and Peter had never been seen. It was night now; but the doors were all wide open, and my father and mother walked on and on; it was more than an hour since he had joined her, and I don't believe they had ever spoken all that time. I was getting the parlour fire lighted, and one of the servants was preparing tea, for I wanted them to have something to eat and drink and warm them, when old Clare asked to speak to me. 

"'I have borrowed the nets from the weir, Miss Matty. Shall we drag the ponds to-night, or wait for the morning?' 

"I remember staring in his face to gather his meaning; and when I did, I laughed out loud. The horror of that new thought -- our bright, darling Peter, cold, and stark, and dead! I remember the ring of my own laugh now. 

"The next day Deborah was at home before I was myself again. She would not have been so weak as to give way as I had done; but my screams (my horrible laughter had ended in crying) had roused my sweet dear mother, whose poor wandering wits were called back and collected as soon as a child needed her care. She and Deborah sat by my bedside; I knew by the looks of each that there had been no news of Peter -- no awful, ghastly news, which was what I most had dreaded in my dull state between sleeping and waking. 

"The same result of all the searching had brought something of the same relief to my mother, to whom, I am sure, the thought that Peter might even then be hanging dead in some of the familiar home places had caused that never-ending walk of yesterday. Her soft eyes never were the same again after that; they had always a restless, craving look, as if seeking for what they could not find. Oh! it was an awful time; coming down like a thunder-bolt on the still sunny day when the lilacs were all in bloom
Where was Mr Peter
He had made his way to Liverpool; and there was war then; and some of the king's ships lay off the mouth of the Mersey; and they were only too glad to have a fine likely boy such as him (five foot nine he was), come to offer himself. The captain wrote to my father, and Peter wrote to my mother. Stay! those letters will be somewhere here
MY DEAREST PETER,-- You did not think we should be so sorry as we are, I know, or you would never have gone away. You are too good. Your father sits and sighs till my heart aches to hear him. He cannot hold up his head for grief; and yet he only did what he thought was right. Perhaps he has been too severe, and perhaps I have not been kind enough; but God knows how we love you, my dear only boy. Don looks so sorry you are gone. Come back, and make us happy, who love you so much. I know you will come back
And it was racetime, and all the post-horses at Cranford were gone to the races; but my father and mother set off in our own gig -- and oh! my dear, they were too late -- the ship was gone! And now read Peter's letter to my mother
Mother; we may go into battle. I hope we shall, and lick those French: but I must see you again before that time
And she was too late
too late
Oh
But, you see, he saw what we did not -- that it was killing my mother. Yes! killing her (put out the candle, my dear; I can talk better in the dark), for she was but a frail woman, and ill-fitted to stand the fright and shock she had gone through; and she would smile at him and comfort him, not in words, but in her looks and tones, which were always cheerful when he was there. And she would speak of how she thought Peter stood a good chance of being admiral very soon -- he was so brave and clever; and how she thought of seeing him in his navy uniform, and what sort of hats admirals wore; and how much more fit he was to be a sailor than a clergyman; and all in that way, just to make my father think she was quite glad of what came of that unlucky morning's work, and the flogging which was always in his mind, as we all knew. But oh, my dear! the bitter, bitter crying she had when she was alone; and at last, as she grew weaker, she could not keep her tears in when Deborah or me was by, and would give us message after message for Peter (his ship had gone to the Mediterranean, or somewhere down there, and then he was ordered off to India, and there was no overland route then); but she still said that no one knew where their death lay in wait, and that we were not to think hers was near. We did not think it, but we knew it, as we saw her fading away. "Well, my dear, it's very foolish of me, I know, when in all likelihood I am so near seeing her again. 

"And only think, love! the very day after her death -- for she did not live quite a twelvemonth after Peter went away -- the very day after -- came a parcel for her from India -- from her poor boy. It was a large, soft, white Indian shawl, with just a little narrow border all round; just what my mother would have liked. 

"We thought it might rouse my father, for he had sat with her hand in his all night long; so Deborah took it in to him, and Peter's letter to her, and all. At first, he took no notice; and we tried to make a kind of light careless talk about the shawl, opening it out and admiring it. Then, suddenly, he got up, and spoke: 'She shall be buried in it,' he said; 'Peter shall have that comfort; and she would have liked it.' 

"Well, perhaps it was not reasonable, but what could we do or say? One gives people in grief their own way. He took it up and felt it: 'It is just such a shawl as she wished for when she was married, and her mother did not give it her. I did not know of it till after, or she should have had it -- she should; but she shall have it now.' 

"My mother looked so lovely in her death! She was always pretty, and now she looked fair, and waxen, and young -- younger than Deborah, as she stood trembling and shivering by her. We decked her in the long soft folds; she lay smiling, as if pleased; and people came -- all Cranford came -- to beg to see her, for they had loved her dearly, as well they might; and the countrywomen brought posies; old Clare's wife brought some white violets and begged they might lie on her breast. 

"Deborah said to me, the day of my mother's funeral, that if she had a hundred offers she never would marry and leave my father. It was not very likely she would have so many -- I don't know that she had one; but it was not less to her credit to say so. She was such a daughter to my father as I think there never was before or since. His eyes failed him, and she read book after book, and wrote, and copied, and was always at his service in any parish business. She could do many more things than my poor mother could; she even once wrote a letter to the bishop for my father. But he missed my mother sorely; the whole parish noticed it. Not that he was less active; I think he was more so, and more patient in helping every one. I did all I could to set Deborah at liberty to be with him; for I knew I was good for little, and that my best work in the world was to do odd jobs quietly, and set others at liberty. But my father was a changed man
Did Mr Peter ever come home
Yes, once. He came home a lieutenant; he did not get to be admiral. And he and my father were such friends! My father took him into every house in the parish, he was so proud of him. He never walked out without Peter's arm to lean upon. Deborah used to smile (I don't think we ever laughed again after my mother's death), and say she was quite put in a corner. Not but what my father always wanted her when there was letter-writing or reading to be done, or anything to be settled
And then
Then Peter went to sea again; and, by-and-by, my father died, blessing us both, and thanking Deborah for all she had been to him; and, of course, our circumstances were changed; and, instead of living at the rectory, and keeping three maids and a man, we had to come to this small house, and be content with a servant-of-all- work; but, as Deborah used to say, we have always lived genteelly, even if circumstances have compelled us to simplicity. Poor Deborah
And Mr Peter
Oh, there was some great war in India -- I forget what they call it- -and we have never heard of Peter since then. I believe he is dead myself; and it sometimes fidgets me that we have never put on mourning for him. And then again, when I sit by myself, and all the house is still, I think I hear his step coming up the street, and my heart begins to flutter and beat; but the sound always goes past -- and Peter never comes. "That's Martha back? No! I'LL go, my dear; I can always find my way in the dark, you know. And a blow of fresh air at the door will do my head good, and it's rather got a trick of aching
Was it Martha
Yes. And I am rather uncomfortable, for I heard such a strange noise, just as I was opening the door
Talking
aristocratic connection
horrid cotton trade
aristocratic society
Her former occupation considered, could Miss Matty excuse the liberty
Mrs Jamieson is coming, I think you said
Yes. Mrs Jamieson most kindly and condescendingly said she would be happy to come. One little stipulation she made, that she should bring Carlo. I told her that if I had a weakness, it was for dogs
And Miss Pole
I am going to ask Miss Pole. Of course, I could not think of asking her until I had asked you, madam -- the rector's daughter, madam. Believe me, I do not forget the situation my father held under yours
And Mrs Forrester, of course
And Mrs Forrester. I thought, in fact, of going to her before I went to Miss Pole. Although her circumstances are changed, madam, she was born at Tyrrell, and we can never forget her alliance to the Bigges, of Bigelow Hall
Mrs Fitz-Adam -- I suppose" - "No, madam. I must draw a line somewhere. Mrs Jamieson would not, I think, like to meet Mrs Fitz-Adam. I have the greatest respect for Mrs Fitz-Adam -- but I cannot think her fit society for such ladies as Mrs Jamieson and Miss Matilda Jenkyns
May I beg you to come as near half-past six to my little dwelling, as possible, Miss Matilda? Mrs Jamieson dines at five, but has kindly promised not to delay her visit beyond that time -- half-past six
Miss Betty told me it was to be a choice and select few
Yes, so she said. Not even Mrs Fitz-Adam
as bold as a lion
bombazine would have shown a deeper sense of her loss
As most of the ladies of good family in Cranford were elderly spinsters, or widows without children, if we did not relax a little, and become less exclusive, by-and-by we should have no society at all
She had always understood that Fitz meant something aristocratic; there was Fitz-Roy -- she thought that some of the King's children had been called Fitz-Roy; and there was Fitz-Clarence, now -- they were the children of dear good King William the Fourth. Fitz- Adam!-- it was a pretty name, and she thought it very probably meant 'Child of Adam.' No one, who had not some good blood in their veins, would dare to be called Fitz; there was a deal in a name -- she had had a cousin who spelt his name with two little ffs -- ffoulkes -- and he always looked down upon capital letters and said they belonged to lately-invented families. She had been afraid he would die a bachelor, he was so very choice. When he met with a Mrs ffarringdon, at a watering-place, he took to her immediately; and a very pretty genteel woman she was -- a widow, with a very good fortune; and 'my cousin,' Mr ffoulkes, married her; and it was all owing to her two little ffs
Wait, Peggy! wait till I've run upstairs and washed my hands. When I cough, open the door; I'll not be a minute
After you, ma'am
Poor, sweet Carlo! I'm forgetting him. Come downstairs with me, poor ittie doggie, and it shall have its tea, it shall
pool
It is very gratifying to me
very gratifying indeed, to see how completely Mrs Jamieson feels at home in my poor little dwelling; she could not have paid me a greater compliment
Hush, ladies! if you please, hush! Mrs Jamieson is asleep
Very gratifying, indeed; I wish my poor sister had been alive to see this day
Oh, gentility
can yon endure this last shock
Why, Peggy, what have you brought us
just a little, leetle glass, ladies; after the oysters and lobsters, you know. Shell-fish are sometimes thought not very wholesome
It's very strong
I do believe there's spirit in it
Only a little drop -- just necessary to make it keep
You know we put brandy-pepper over our preserves to make them keep. I often feel tipsy myself from eating damson tart
My sister-in-law, Lady Glenmire, is coming to stay with me
Indeed
stopped the way
By the way, you'll think I'm strangely ignorant; but, do you really know, I am puzzled how we ought to address Lady Glenmire. Do you say, 'Your Ladyship,' where you would say 'you' to a common person? I have been puzzling all morning; and are we to say 'My Lady,' instead of 'Ma'am?' Now you knew Lady Arley -- will you kindly tell me the most correct way of speaking to the peerage
It is so long ago
Dear! dear! how stupid I am! I don't think I ever saw her more than twice. I know we used to call Sir Peter, 'Sir Peter'-- but he came much oftener to see us than Lady Arley did. Deborah would have known in a minute. 'My lady'-- 'your ladyship.' It sounds very strange, and as if it was not natural. I never thought of it before; but, now you have named it, I am all in a puzzle
Well, I really think
I had better just go and tell Mrs Forrester about our little difficulty. One sometimes grows nervous; and yet one would not have Lady Glenmire think we were quite ignorant of the etiquettes of high life in Cranford
And will you just step in here, dear Miss Pole, as you come back, please, and tell me what you decide upon? Whatever you and Mrs Forrester fix upon, will be quite right, I'm sure. 'Lady Arley,' 'Sir Peter
Who is Lady Glenmire
Oh, she's the widow of Mr Jamieson -- that's Mrs Jamieson's late husband, you know -- widow of his eldest brother. Mrs Jamieson was a Miss Walker, daughter of Governor Walker. 'Your ladyship.' My dear, if they fix on that way of speaking, you must just let me practice a little on you first, for I shall feel so foolish and hot saying it the first time to Lady Glenmire
Well! to be sure! You've had Mrs Jamieson here, I find from Martha; and we are not to call on Lady Glenmire. Yes! I met Mrs Jamieson, half-way between here and Mrs Forrester's, and she told me; she took me so by surprise, I had nothing to say. I wish I had thought of something very sharp and sarcastic; I dare say I shall to-night. And Lady Glenmire is but the widow of a Scotch baron after all! I went on to look at Mrs Forrester's Peerage, to see who this lady was, that is to be kept under a glass case: widow of a Scotch peer -- never sat in the House of Lords -- and as poor as job, I dare say; and she -- fifth daughter of some Mr Campbell or other. You are the daughter of a rector, at any rate, and related to the Arleys; and Sir Peter might have been Viscount Arley, every one says
And I went and ordered a cap this morning, to be quite ready
Mrs Jamieson shall see if it is so easy to get me to make fourth at a pool when she has none of her fine Scotch relations with her
Well, ma'am! is it the little lady with Mrs Jamieson, you mean? I thought you would like more to know how young Mrs Smith was dressed; her being a bride
Good gracious me! as if we cared about a Mrs Smith
The little lady in Mrs Jamieson's pew had on, ma'am, rather an old black silk, and a shepherd's plaid cloak, ma'am, and very bright black eyes she had, ma'am, and a pleasant, sharp face; not over young, ma'am, but yet, I should guess, younger than Mrs Jamieson herself. She looked up and down the church, like a bird, and nipped up her petticoats, when she came out, as quick and sharp as ever I see. I'll tell you what, ma'am, she's more like Mrs Deacon, at the 'Coach and Horses,' nor any one
Hush, Martha
that's not respectful
Lady
Lady -- as Mrs Deacon
So
Ah! I see you have got your note, too. Better late than never. I could have told my Lady Glenmire she would be glad enough of our society before a fortnight was over
Yes
we're asked for Tuesday evening. And perhaps you would just kindly bring your work across and drink tea with us that night. It is my usual regular time for looking over the last week's bills, and notes, and letters, and making candle- lighters of them; but that does not seem quite reason enough for saying I have a previous engagement at home, though I meant to make it do. Now, if you would come, my conscience would be quite at ease, and luckily the note is not written yet
Don't you mean to go then
Oh, no
You don't either, I suppose
I don't know
Yes, I think I do
You see, one would not like Mrs Jamieson to think that anything she could do, or say, was of consequence enough to give offence; it would be a kind of letting down of ourselves, that I, for one, should not like. It would be too flattering to Mrs Jamieson if we allowed her to suppose that what she had said affected us a week, nay ten days afterwards
Well! I suppose it is wrong to be hurt and annoyed so long about anything; and, perhaps, after all, she did not mean to vex us. But I must say, I could not have brought myself to say the things Mrs Jamieson did about our not calling. I really don't think I shall go
Oh, come! Miss Matty, you must go; you know our friend Mrs Jamieson is much more phlegmatic than most people, and does not enter into the little delicacies of feeling which you possess in so remarkable a degree
I thought you possessed them, too, that day Mrs Jamieson called to tell us not to go
we were most happy to accept
regretting that we were obliged to decline
The impudence of the man
I should like to ask him whether his mistress pays her quarter-share for his exclusive use
My dear! ten pounds would have purchased every stitch she had on -- lace and all
Has your ladyship been to Court lately
See how judiciously I have chosen a subject befitting the rank of the stranger
I never was there in my life
to take us often from our home, even to Edinburgh. Ye'll have been in Edinburgh, maybe
I had better ring the bell, my dear, had not I
No -- I think not -- Mulliner does not like to be hurried
Oh
Lady Glenmire rang the bell; I believe it was for tea
my lady
your ladyship
you have Spadille, I believe
Yes
I always wash it myself. And once it had a narrow escape. Of course, your ladyship knows that such lace must never be starched or ironed. Some people wash it in sugar and water, and some in coffee, to make it the right yellow colour; but I myself have a very good receipt for washing it in milk, which stiffens it enough, and gives it a very good creamy colour. Well, ma'am, I had tacked it together (and the beauty of this fine lace is that, when it is wet, it goes into a very little space), and put it to soak in milk, when, unfortunately, I left the room; on my return, I found pussy on the table, looking very like a thief, but gulping very uncomfortably, as if she was half-chocked with something she wanted to swallow and could not. And, would you believe it? At first I pitied her, and said 'Poor pussy! poor pussy!' till, all at once, I looked and saw the cup of milk empty -- cleaned out! 'You naughty cat!' said I, and I believe I was provoked enough to give her a slap, which did no good, but only helped the lace down -- just as one slaps a choking child on the back. I could have cried, I was so vexed; but I determined I would not give the lace up without a struggle for it. I hoped the lace might disagree with her, at any rate; but it would have been too much for Job, if he had seen, as I did, that cat come in, quite placid and purring, not a quarter of an hour after, and almost expecting to be stroked. 'No, pussy!' said I, 'if you have any conscience you ought not to expect that!' And then a thought struck me; and I rang the bell for my maid, and sent her to Mr Hoggins, with my compliments, and would he be kind enough to lend me one of his top-boots for an hour? I did not think there was anything odd in the message; but Jenny said the young men in the surgery laughed as if they would be ill at my wanting a top-boot. When it came, Jenny and I put pussy in, with her forefeet straight down, so that they were fastened, and could not scratch, and we gave her a teaspoonful of current-jelly in which (your ladyship must excuse me) I had mixed some tartar emetic. I shall never forget how anxious I was for the next half- hour. I took pussy to my own room, and spread a clean towel on the floor. I could have kissed her when she returned the lace to sight, very much as it had gone down. Jenny had boiling water ready, and we soaked it and soaked it, and spread it on a lavender- bush in the sun before I could touch it again, even to put it in milk. But now your ladyship would never guess that it had been in pussy's inside
vulgarity of wealth
Don't you find it very unpleasant walking
Oh dear, no! it is so pleasant and still at night
Such a refreshment after the excitement of a party
The stars are so beautiful
Are you fond of astronomy
Not very
my lady
I am sure you did your best, my dear. It is just like the caps all the ladies in Cranford are wearing, and they have had theirs for a year, I dare say. I should have liked something newer, I confess -- something more like the turbans Miss Betty Barker tells me Queen Adelaide wears; but it is very pretty, my dear. And I dare say lavender will wear better than sea-green. Well, after all, what is dress, that we should care anything about it? You'll tell me if you want anything, my dear. Here is the bell. I suppose turbans have not got down to Drumble yet
I was foolish to expect anything very genteel out of the Drumble shops; poor girl! she did her best, I've no doubt
As I was stepping out of Gordon's shop to-day, I chanced to go into the 'George' (my Betty has a second-cousin who is chambermaid there, and I thought Betty would like to hear how she was), and, not seeing anyone about, I strolled up the staircase, and found myself in the passage leading to the Assembly Room (you and I remember the Assembly Room, I am sure, Miss Matty! and the minuets de la cour!); so I went on, not thinking of what I was about, when, all at once, I perceived that I was in the middle of the preparations for to-morrow night -- the room being divided with great clothes-maids, over which Crosby's men were tacking red flannel; very dark and odd it seemed; it quite bewildered me, and I was going on behind the screens, in my absence of mind, when a gentleman (quite the gentleman, I can assure you) stepped forwards and asked if I had any business he could arrange for me. He spoke such pretty broken English, I could not help thinking of Thaddeus of Warsaw, and the Hungarian Brothers, and Santo Sebastiani; and while I was busy picturing his past life to myself, he had bowed me out of the room. But wait a minute! You have not heard half my story yet! I was going downstairs, when who should I meet but Betty's second-cousin. So, of course, I stopped to speak to her for Betty's sake; and she told me that I had really seen the conjuror -- the gentleman who spoke broken English was Signor Brunoni himself. Just at this moment he passed us on the stairs, making such a graceful bow! in reply to which I dropped a curtsey -- all foreigners have such polite manners, one catches something of it. But when he had gone downstairs, I bethought me that I had dropped my glove in the Assembly Room (it was safe in my muff all the time, but I never found it till afterwards); so I went back, and, just as I was creeping up the passage left on one side of the great screen that goes nearly across the room, who should I see but the very same gentleman that had met me before, and passed me on the stairs, coming now forwards from the inner part of the room, to which there is no entrance -- you remember, Miss Matty -- and just repeating, in his pretty broken English, the inquiry if I had any business there- -I don't mean that he put it quite so bluntly, but he seemed very determined that I should not pass the screen -- so, of course, I explained about my glove, which, curiously enough, I found at that very moment
Had he a beard
Was he young, or old
Fair, or dark
Did he look
How did he look
winding-sheets
roley- poleys
Ah! I see; I comprehend perfectly. A represents the ball. Put A between B and D -- no! between C and F, and turn the second joint of the third finger of your left hand over the wrist of your right H. Very clear indeed! My dear Mrs Forrester, conjuring and witchcraft is a mere affair of the alphabet. Do let me read you this one passage
doors opened at seven precisely
George
receipts
it was not the thing
like a being of another sphere
That's not Signor Brunoni
Signor Brunoni had no beard -- but perhaps he'll come soon
You see, my dear, turbans ARE worn
I don't believe him
I don't
Signor Brunoni had not got that muffy sort of thing about his chin, but looked like a close-shaved Christian gentleman
if she thought it was quite right to have come to see such things? She could not help fearing they were lending encouragement to something that was not quite
in order to get the night over the sooner
George Inn
What was the use
of locks and bolts, and bells to the windows, and going round the house every night? That last trick was fit for a conjuror. Now she did believe that Signor Brunoni was at the bottom of it
Take care of that
It's my plate. I am sure there is a plan to rob my house to-night. I am come to throw myself on your hospitality, Miss Matty. Betty is going to sleep with her cousin at the 'George.' I can sit up here all night if you will allow me; but my house is so far from any neighbours, and I don't believe we could be heard if we screamed ever so
But
what has alarmed you so much? Have you seen any men lurking about the house
Oh, yes
Two very bad-looking men have gone three times past the house, very slowly; and an Irish beggar-woman came not half-an-hour ago, and all but forced herself in past Betty, saying her children were starving, and she must speak to the mistress. You see, she said 'mistress,' though there was a hat hanging up in the hall, and it would have been more natural to have said 'master.' But Betty shut the door in her face, and came up to me, and we got the spoons together, and sat in the parlour-window watching till we saw Thomas Jones going from his work, when we called to him and asked him to take care of us into the town
where nae men should be
that murderous gang
her men
Well
well, Miss Matty! men will be men. Every mother's son of them wishes to be considered Samson and Solomon rolled into one -- too strong ever to be beaten or discomfited -- too wise ever to be outwitted. If you will notice, they have always foreseen events, though they never tell one for one's warning before the events happen. My father was a man, and I know the sex pretty well
They are very incomprehensible, certainly
Now, only think
There, I have undergone the risk of having one of my remaining teeth drawn (for one is terribly at the mercy of any surgeon-dentist; and I, for one, always speak them fair till I have got my mouth out of their clutches), and, after all, Mr Hoggins is too much of a man to own that he was robbed last night
Not robbed
Don't tell me
I believe he was robbed, just as Betty told me, and he is ashamed to own it; and, to be sure, it was very silly of him to be robbed just at his own door; I daresay he feels that such a thing won't raise him in the eyes of Cranford society, and is anxious to conceal it -- but he need not have tried to impose upon me, by saying I must have heard an exaggerated account of some petty theft of a neck of mutton, which, it seems, was stolen out of the safe in his yard last week; he had the impertinence to add, he believed that that was taken by the cat. I have no doubt, if I could get at the bottom of it, it was that Irishman dressed up in woman's clothes, who came spying about my house, with the story about the starving children
Ghosts
Don't leave me
Could not you -- could not you take Miss Matty round by Headingley Causeway?-- the pavement in Darkness Lane jolts so, and she is not very strong
Oh! pray go on! What is the matter? What is the matter? I will give you sixpence more to go on very fast; pray don't stop here
And I'll give you a shilling
if you'll go by Headingley Causeway
I have been just telling Lady Glenmire of our poor friend Mrs Forrester, and her terror of ghosts. It comes from living so much alone, and listening to the bug-a-boo stories of that Jenny of hers
shaken
Sam
Jack's up
Pref
Rising Sun
My dear
my heart is sad for that little careworn child. Although her father is a conjuror, she looks as if she had never had a good game of play in her life. I used to make very pretty balls in this way when I was a girl, and I thought I would try if I could not make this one smart and take it to Phoebe this afternoon. I think 'the gang' must have left the neighbourhood, for one does not hear any more of their violence and robbery now
that she wished she could agree with her as to the very small reason we had had for alarm, but with the recollection of a man disguised as a woman who had endeavoured to force himself into her house while his confederates waited outside; with the knowledge gained from Lady Glenmire herself, of the footprints seen on Mrs Jamieson's flower borders; with the fact before her of the audacious robbery committed on Mr Hoggins at his own door
her ladyship
Well, to be sure
Not to any particular person, my dear
only the old story, you know, of ladies always saying, 'WHEN I marry,' and gentlemen, 'IF I marry
But, after all, I have not told you the truth. It is so long ago, and no one ever knew how much I thought of it at the time, unless, indeed, my dear mother guessed; but I may say that there was a time when I did not think I should have been only Miss Matty Jenkyns all my life; for even if I did meet with any one who wished to marry me now (and, as Miss Pole says, one is never too safe), I could not take him -- I hope he would not take it too much to heart, but I could NOT take him -- or any one but the person I once thought I should be married to; and he is dead and gone, and he never knew how it all came about that I said 'No,' when I had thought many and many a time -- Well, it's no matter what I thought. God ordains it all, and I am very happy, my dear. No one has such kind friends as I
My father once made us
keep a diary, in two columns; on one side we were to put down in the morning what we thought would be the course and events of the coming day, and at night we were to put down on the other side what really had happened. It would be to some people rather a sad way of telling their lives
do you know I dream sometimes that I have a little child -- always the same -- a little girl of about two years old; she never grows older, though I have dreamt about her for many years. I don't think I ever dream of any words or sound she makes; she is very noiseless and still, but she comes to me when she is very sorry or very glad, and I have wakened with the clasp of her dear little arms round my neck. Only last night -- perhaps because I had gone to sleep thinking of this ball for Phoebe -- my little darling came in my dream, and put up her mouth to be kissed, just as I have seen real babies do to real mothers before going to bed. But all this is nonsense, dear! only don't be frightened by Miss Pole from being married. I can fancy it may be a very happy state, and a little credulity helps one on through life very smoothly -- better than always doubting and doubting and seeing difficulties and disagreeables in everything
though
how people can mistake Thomas for the real Signor Brunoni, I can't conceive; but he says they do; so I suppose I must believe him. Not but what he is a very good man; I am sure I don't know how we should have paid our bill at the 'Rising Sun' but for the money he sends; but people must know very little about art if they can take him for my husband. Why, Miss, in the ball trick, where my husband spreads his fingers wide, and throws out his little finger with quite an air and a grace, Thomas just clumps up his hand like a fist, and might have ever so many balls hidden in it. Besides, he has never been in India, and knows nothing of the proper sit of a turban
Have you been in India
Oh, yes! many a year, ma'am. Sam was a sergeant in the31 st; and when the regiment was ordered to India, I drew a lot to go, and I was more thankful than I can tell; for it seemed as if it would only be a slow death to me to part from my husband. But, indeed, ma'am, if I had known all, I don't know whether I would not rather have died there and then than gone through what I have done since. To be sure, I've been able to comfort Sam, and to be with him; but, ma'am, I've lost six children
Yes! Six children died off, like little buds nipped untimely, in that cruel India. I thought, as each died, I never could -- I never would -- love a child again; and when the next came, it had not only its own love, but the deeper love that came from the thoughts of its little dead brothers and sisters. And when Phoebe was coming, I said to my husband, 'Sam, when the child is born, and I am strong, I shall leave you; it will cut my heart cruel; but if this baby dies too, I shall go mad; the madness is in me now; but if you let me go down to Calcutta, carrying my baby step by step, it will, maybe, work itself off; and I will save, and I will hoard, and I will beg -- and I will die, to get a passage home to England, where our baby may live?' God bless him! he said I might go; and he saved up his pay, and I saved every pice I could get for washing or any way; and when Phoebe came, and I grew strong again, I set off. It was very lonely; through the thick forests, dark again with their heavy trees -- along by the river's side (but I had been brought up near the Avon in Warwickshire, so that flowing noise sounded like home)-- from station to station, from Indian village to village, I went along, carrying my child. I had seen one of the officer's ladies with a little picture, ma'am -- done by a Catholic foreigner, ma'am -- of the Virgin and the little Saviour, ma'am. She had him on her arm, and her form was softly curled round him, and their cheeks touched. Well, when I went to bid good-bye to this lady, for whom I had washed, she cried sadly; for she, too, had lost her children, but she had not another to save, like me; and I was bold enough to ask her would she give me that print. And she cried the more, and said her children were with that little blessed Jesus; and gave it me, and told me that she had heard it had been painted on the bottom of a cask, which made it have that round shape. And when my body was very weary, and my heart was sick (for there were times when I misdoubted if I could ever reach my home, and there were times when I thought of my husband, and one time when I thought my baby was dying), I took out that picture and looked at it, till I could have thought the mother spoke to me, and comforted me. And the natives were very kind. We could not understand one another; but they saw my baby on my breast, and they came out to me, and brought me rice and milk, and sometimes flowers -- I have got some of the flowers dried. Then, the next morning, I was so tired; and they wanted me to stay with them -- I could tell that -- and tried to frighten me from going into the deep woods, which, indeed, looked very strange and dark; but it seemed to me as if Death was following me to take my baby away from me; and as if I must go on, and on -- and I thought how God had cared for mothers ever since the world was made, and would care for me; so I bade them good-bye, and set off afresh. And once when my baby was ill, and both she and I needed rest, He led me to a place where I found a kind Englishman lived, right in the midst of the natives
And you reached Calcutta safely at last
Yes, safely! Oh! when I knew I had only two days' journey more before me, I could not help it, ma'am -- it might be idolatry, I cannot tell -- but I was near one of the native temples, and I went into it with my baby to thank God for His great mercy; for it seemed to me that where others had prayed before to their God, in their joy or in their agony, was of itself a sacred place. And I got as servant to an invalid lady, who grew quite fond of my baby aboard-ship; and, in two years' time, Sam earned his discharge, and came home to me, and to our child. Then he had to fix on a trade; but he knew of none; and once, once upon a time, he had learnt some tricks from an Indian juggler; so he set up conjuring, and it answered so well that he took Thomas to help him -- as his man, you know, not as another conjuror, though Thomas has set it up now on his own hook. But it has been a great help to us that likeness between the twins, and made a good many tricks go off well that they made up together. And Thomas is a good brother, only he has not the fine carriage of my husband, so that I can't think how he can be taken for Signor Brunoni himself, as he says he is
Poor little Phoebe
Ah! you may say so! I never thought I should have reared her, though, when she fell ill at Chunderabaddad; but that good, kind Aga Jenkyns took us in, which I believe was the very saving of her
Jenkyns
Yes, Jenkyns. I shall think all people of that name are kind; for here is that nice old lady who comes every day to take Phoebe a walk
When was it -- in what year was it that you heard that Mr Peter was the Great Lama
surveying mankind from China to Peru
Don't go -- I can't wait -- it is not twelve, I know -- but never mind your dress -- I must speak to you
sanctuary of home
What do you think, Miss Matty? What DO you think? Lady Glenmire is to marry -- is to be married, I mean -- Lady Glenmire -- Mr Hoggins -- Mr Hoggins is going to marry Lady Glenmire
Marry
Marry! Madness
Marry
_I_ said marry! as you do; and I also said, 'What a fool my lady is going to make of herself!' I could have said 'Madness!' but I controlled myself, for it was in a public shop that I heard of it. Where feminine delicacy is gone to, I don't know! You and I, Miss Matty, would have been ashamed to have known that our marriage was spoken of in a grocer's shop, in the hearing of shopmen
But
perhaps it is not true. Perhaps we are doing her injustice
No
Marry
Well! I never thought of it. Two people that we know going to be married. It's coming very near
So near that my heart stopped beating when I heard of it, while you might have counted twelve
One does not know whose turn may come next. Here, in Cranford, poor Lady Glenmire might have thought herself safe
Bah
Set her on the Tintock tap, The wind will blaw a man till her.'" "That was because 'Tibbie Fowler' was rich, I think
Well! there was a kind of attraction about Lady Glenmire that I, for one, should be ashamed to have
But how can she have fancied Mr Hoggins? I am not surprised that Mr Hoggins has liked her
Oh! I don't know. Mr Hoggins is rich, and very pleasant- looking
and very good-tempered and kind- hearted
She has married for an establishment, that's it. I suppose she takes the surgery with it
Don't let Nature deprive me of the treasure which is mine, although for a time I can make no use of it
We also are spinsters
poor Peter
He was welly stawed wi' eating, for there were three or four houses where nowt would serve 'em but he must share in their breakfast
There! that's for yourself; that's for Jenny
Who is your letter from, my dear? Mine is a very civil invitation, signed 'Edwin Wilson,' asking me to attend an important meeting of the shareholders of the Town and County Bank, to be held in Drumble, on Thursday the twenty-first. I am sure, it is very attentive of them to remember me
important meeting
My father has no shares in the bank
Oh, no! I remember. He objected very much to Deborah's buying any, I believe. But she was quite the woman of business, and always judged for herself; and here, you see, they have paid eight per cent. all these years
Well, my dear
the thing is this: it is not etiquette to go till after twelve; but then, you see, all Cranford will be there, and one does not like to be too curious about dress and trimmings and caps with all the world looking on. It is never genteel to be over-curious on these occasions. Deborah had the knack of always looking as if the latest fashion was nothing new to her; a manner she had caught from Lady Arley, who did see all the new modes in London, you know. So I thought we would just slip down -- for I do want this morning, soon after breakfast half-a-pound of tea -- and then we could go up and examine the things at our leisure, and see exactly how my new silk gown must be made; and then, after twelve, we could go with our minds disengaged, and free from thoughts of dress
I am afraid
Whichever I choose I shall wish I had taken another. Look at this lovely crimson! it would be so warm in winter. But spring is coming on, you know. I wish I could have a gown for every season
However
it would give me a great deal of trouble to take care of them if I had them; so, I think, I'll only take one. But which must it be, my dear
Town and County Bank! I am not sure, sir, but I believe we have received a warning against notes issued by this bank only this morning. I will just step and ask Mr Johnson, sir; but I'm afraid I must trouble you for payment in cash, or in a note of a different bank
Dang it
the chap talks as if notes and gold were to be had for the picking up
What bank was it? I mean, what bank did your note belong to
Town and County Bank
Let me see it
I don't understand it
That is our bank, is it not?-- the Town and County Bank
Yes
This lilac silk will just match the ribbons in your new cap, I believe
Never mind the silks for a few minutes, dear. I don't understand you, sir
Is this a forged note
Oh, no, ma'am. It is a true note of its kind; but you see, ma'am, it is a joint-stock bank, and there are reports out that it is likely to break. Mr Johnson is only doing his duty, ma'am, as I am sure Mr Dobson knows
It's hard upon a poor man
I will give you five sovereigns for your note, my good man
I think there is some great mistake about it, for I am one of the shareholders, and I'm sure they would have told me if things had not been going on right
Perhaps so
But I don't pretend to understand business; I only know that if it is going to fail, and if honest people are to lose their money because they have taken our notes -- I can't explain myself
only I would rather exchange my gold for the note, if you please
and then you can take your wife the shawl. It is only going without my gown a few days longer
Then, I have no doubt, everything will be cleared up
But if it is cleared up the wrong way
Why, then it will only have been common honesty in me, as a shareholder, to have given this good man the money. I am quite clear about it in my own mind; but, you know, I can never speak quite as comprehensibly as others can, only you must give me your note, Mr Dobson, if you please, and go on with your purchases with these sovereigns
I'm loth to make another one lose instead of me, if it is a loss; but, you see, five pounds is a deal of money to a man with a family; and, as you say, ten to one in a day or two the note will be as good as gold again
No hope of that, my friend
The more reason why I should take it
Thank you. I will wait a day or two before I purchase any of these silks; perhaps you will then have a greater choice. My dear, will you come upstairs
My dear, I never feel as if my mind was what people call very strong; and it's often hard enough work for me to settle what I ought to do with the case right before me. I was very thankful to- -I was very thankful, that I saw my duty this morning, with the poor man standing by me; but its rather a strain upon me to keep thinking and thinking what I should do if such and such a thing happened; and, I believe, I had rather wait and see what really does come; and I don't doubt I shall be helped then if I don't fidget myself, and get too anxious beforehand. You know, love, I'm not like Deborah. If Deborah had lived, I've no doubt she would have seen after them, before they had got themselves into this state
If that bank goes wrong, I shall lose one hundred and forty-nine pounds thirteen shillings and fourpence a year; I shall only have thirteen pounds a year left
I hope it's not wrong -- not wicked -- but, oh! I am so glad poor Deborah is spared this. She could not have borne to come down in the world -- she had such a noble, lofty spirit
I don't mean to deny that men are troublesome in a house. I don't judge from my own experience, for my father was neatness itself, and wiped his shoes on coming in as carefully as any woman; but still a man has a sort of knowledge of what should be done in difficulties, that it is very pleasant to have one at hand ready to lean upon. Now, Lady Glenmire, instead of being tossed about, and wondering where she is to settle, will be certain of a home among pleasant and kind people, such as our good Miss Pole and Mrs Forrester. And Mr Hoggins is really a very personable man; and as for his manners, why, if they are not very polished, I have known people with very good hearts and very clever minds too, who were not what some people reckoned refined, but who were both true and tender
I am not crying for myself, dear
I believe I am crying for the very silly thought of how my mother would grieve if she could know; she always cared for us so much more than for herself. But many a poor person has less, and I am not very extravagant, and, thank God, when the neck of mutton, and Martha's wages, and the rent are paid, I have not a farthing owing. Poor Martha! I think she'll be sorry to leave me
But, Martha
Don't, 'but Martha' me
I'll not listen to reason
Reason always means what someone else has got to say. Now I think what I've got to say is good enough reason; but reason or not, I'll say it, and I'll stick to it. I've money in the Savings Bank, and I've a good stock of clothes, and I'm not going to leave Miss Matty. No, not if she gives me warning every hour in the day
Well
I'm thankful you begin with 'well!' If you'd have begun with 'but,' as you did afore, I'd not ha' listened to you. Now you may go on
I telled her so. A loss she'd never cease to be sorry for
Still, she will have so little -- so very little -- to live upon, that I don't see just now how she could find you food -- she will even be pressed for her own. I tell you this, Martha, because I feel you are like a friend to dear Miss Matty, but you know she might not like to have it spoken about
Was that the reason Miss Matty wouldn't order a pudding to-day? She said she had no great fancy for sweet things, and you and she would just have a mutton chop. But I'll be up to her. Never you tell, but I'll make her a pudding, and a pudding she'll like, too, and I'll pay for it myself; so mind you see she eats it. Many a one has been comforted in their sorrow by seeing a good dish come upon the table
Ah! vous dirai-je, maman
spills
There
I should like to keep this pudding under a glass shade, my dear
I am sure, dear, I have seen uglier things under a glass shade before now
Please, ma'am, he's only Jem Hearn
And please, ma'am, he wants to marry me off-hand. And please, ma'am, we want to take a lodger -- just one quiet lodger, to make our two ends meet; and we'd take any house conformable; and, oh dear Miss Matty, if I may be so bold, would you have any objections to lodging with us? Jem wants it as much as I do
You great oaf! why can't you back me!-- But he does want it all the same, very bad -- don't you, Jem?-- only, you see, he's dazed at being called on to speak before quality
It's not that
only Martha has such quick ways with her when once she takes a thing into her head; and marriage, ma'am -- marriage nails a man, as one may say. I dare say I shan't mind it after it's once over
Please, ma'am
don't mind him, he'll come to; 'twas only last night he was an-axing me, and an-axing me, and all the more because I said I could not think of it for years to come, and now he's only taken aback with the suddenness of the joy; but you know, Jem, you are just as full as me about wanting a lodger
Ay! if Miss Matty would lodge with us -- otherwise I've no mind to be cumbered with strange folk in the house
Marriage is a very solemn thing, Martha
It is indeed, ma'am
Not that I've no objections to Martha
You've never let me a-be for asking me for to fix when I would be married
and now you're shaming me before my missus and all
Nay, now! Martha don't ee! don't ee! only a man likes to have breathing-time
I hope, ma'am, you know that I am bound to respect every one who has been kind to Martha. I always looked on her as to be my wife -- some time; and she has often and often spoken of you as the kindest lady that ever was; and though the plain truth is, I would not like to be troubled with lodgers of the common run, yet if, ma'am, you'd honour us by living with us, I'm sure Martha would do her best to make you comfortable; and I'd keep out of your way as much as I could, which I reckon would be the best kindness such an awkward chap as me could do
Don't let any thought of me hurry you into marriage: pray don't. Marriage is such a very solemn thing
But Miss Matilda will think of your plan, Martha
And I'm sure neither she nor I can ever forget your kindness; nor your's either, Jem
Why, yes, ma'am! I'm sure I mean kindly, though I'm a bit fluttered by being pushed straight ahead into matrimony, as it were, and mayn't express myself conformable. But I'm sure I'm willing enough, and give me time to get accustomed; so, Martha, wench, what's the use of crying so, and slapping me if I come near
with Miss Pole's kind regards
But without Mrs Jamieson
we, the ladies of Cranford, in my drawing-room assembled, can resolve upon something. I imagine we are none of us what may be called rich, though we all possess a genteel competency, sufficient for tastes that are elegant and refined, and would not, if they could, be vulgarly ostentatious
Miss Smith
I have conversed in private -- I made it my business to do so yesterday afternoon -- with these ladies on the misfortune which has happened to our friend, and one and all of us have agreed that while we have a superfluity, it is not only a duty, but a pleasure -- a true pleasure, Mary
to give what we can to assist her -- Miss Matilda Jenkyns. Only in consideration of the feelings of delicate independence existing in the mind of every refined female
we wish to contribute our mites in a secret and concealed manner, so as not to hurt the feelings I have referred to. And our object in requesting you to meet us this morning is that, believing you are the daughter -- that your father is, in fact, her confidential adviser, in all pecuniary matters, we imagined that, by consulting with him, you might devise some mode in which our contribution could be made to appear the legal due which Miss Matilda Jenkyns ought to receive from -- Probably your father, knowing her investments, can fill up the blank
I have expressed your meaning, ladies, have I not? And while Miss Smith considers what reply to make, allow me to offer you some little refreshment
that I would name what Miss Pole had said to my father, and that if anything could be arranged for dear Miss Matty
I don't mind, among friends, stating that I -- no! I'm not poor exactly, but I don't think I'm what you may call rich; I wish I were, for dear Miss Matty's sake -- but, if you please, I'll write down in a sealed paper what I can give. I only wish it was more; my dear Mary, I do indeed
movement
Miss Matty
that I thought was such a fine young lady when I was nothing but a country girl, coming to market with eggs and butter and such like things. For my father, though well-to-do, would always make me go on as my mother had done before me, and I had to come into Cranford every Saturday, and see after sales, and prices, and what not. And one day, I remember, I met Miss Matty in the lane that leads to Combehurst; she was walking on the footpath, which, you know, is raised a good way above the road, and a gentleman rode beside her, and was talking to her, and she was looking down at some primroses she had gathered, and pulling them all to pieces, and I do believe she was crying. But after she had passed, she turned round and ran after me to ask -- oh, so kindly -- about my poor mother, who lay on her death-bed; and when I cried she took hold of my hand to comfort me -- and the gentleman waiting for her all the time -- and her poor heart very full of something, I am sure; and I thought it such an honour to be spoken to in that pretty way by the rector's daughter, who visited at Arley Hall. I have loved her ever since, though perhaps I'd no right to do it; but if you can think of any way in which I might be allowed to give a little more without any one knowing it, I should be so much obliged to you, my dear. And my brother would be delighted to doctor her for nothing -- medicines, leeches, and all. I know that he and her ladyship (my dear, I little thought in the days I was telling you of that I should ever come to be sister-in-law to a ladyship!) would do anything for her. We all would
Eh? eh? it's as dear as daylight. What's your objection
Yes
Certainly
Decidedly
What there was to decide
See, Mary, how a good, innocent life makes friends all around. Confound it! I could make a good lesson out of it if I were a parson; but, as it is, I can't get a tail to my sentences -- only I'm sure you feel what I want to say. You and I will have a walk after lunch and talk a bit more about these plans
Remember, dear, I'm the only one left -- I mean, there's no one to be hurt by what I do. I'm willing to do anything that's right and honest; and I don't think, if Deborah knows where she is, she'll care so very much if I'm not genteel; because, you see, she'll know all, dear. Only let me see what I can do, and pay the poor people as far as I'm able
Matilda Jenkyns, licensed to sell tea
great nonsense
wondered how tradespeople were to get on if there was to be a continual consulting of each other's interests, which would put a stop to all competition directly
I am sure you would be sorry to bring me wrong weight
such simplicity might be very well in Cranford, but would never do in the world
how glad he should be to take a library, so well selected as he knew that the late Mr Jenkyns's must have been, at any valuation put upon them
Johnson's Dictionary
one man's meat might be another man's poison
for indeed, miss
I'm afraid she won't approve of it, and I'm sure I don't know who is to take care of her as she should be taken care of when I am laid up
way of make-weight
The little things like it so much
Is your name Mary Smith
Yes
those things
It is -- oh, sir! can you be Peter
I have been too sudden for you, Matty -- I have, my little girl
I suppose hot climates age people very quickly
When you left Cranford you had not a grey hair in your head
But how many years ago is that
Ah, true! yes, I suppose you and I are getting old. But still I did not think we were so very old! But white hair is very becoming to you, Peter
I suppose I forgot dates too, Matty, for what do you think I have brought for you from India? I have an Indian muslin gown and a pearl necklace for you somewhere in my chest at Portsmouth
I'm afraid I'm too old; but it was very kind of you to think of it. They are just what I should have liked years ago -- when I was young
So I thought, my little Matty. I remembered your tastes; they were so like my dear mother's
I must go and settle about a room at the 'George.' My carpet-bag is there too
No
you must not go; please, dear Peter -- pray, Mary -- oh! you must not go
My dear children, don't make yourselves ill
so very Oriental
if he did not remind me of the Father of the Faithful
Do you know, little Matty, I could have sworn you were on the high road to matrimony when I left England that last time! If anybody had told me you would have lived and died an old maid then, I should have laughed in their faces
It was Holbrook, that fine manly fellow who lived at Woodley, that I used to think would carry off my little Matty. You would not think it now, I dare say, Mary; but this sister of mine was once a very pretty girl -- at least, I thought so, and so I've a notion did poor Holbrook. What business had he to die before I came home to thank him for all his kindness to a good-for-nothing cub as I was? It was that that made me first think he cared for you; for in all our fishing expeditions it was Matty, Matty, we talked about. Poor Deborah! What a lecture she read me on having asked him home to lunch one day, when she had seen the Arley carriage in the town, and thought that my lady might call. Well, that's long years ago; more than half a life-time, and yet it seems like yesterday! I don't know a fellow I should have liked better as a brother-in-law. You must have played your cards badly, my little Matty, somehow or another -- wanted your brother to be a good go-between, eh, little one
Why, what's this? you're shivering and shaking, Matty, with that confounded open window. Shut it, Mary, this minute
those Hogginses
Leave Mrs Jamieson to me
George
If Peter should marry, what would become of poor dear Miss Matty? And Mrs Jamieson, of all people
It was so wanting in delicacy in a widow to think of such a thing
Signor Brunoni, Magician to the King of Delhi, the Rajah of Oude, and the great Lama of Thibet
perform in Cranford for one night only
George
UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF THE HONOURABLE MRS JAMIESON
George
But, Mr Peter, shooting a cherubim -- don't you think -- I am afraid that was sacrilege
Don't be shocked, prim little Mary, at all my wonderful stories. I consider Mrs Jamieson fair game, and besides I am bent on propitiating her, and the first step towards it is keeping her well awake. I bribed her here by asking her to let me have her name as patroness for my poor conjuror this evening; and I don't want to give her time enough to get up her rancour against the Hogginses, who are just coming in. I want everybody to be friends, for it harasses Matty so much to hear of these quarrels. I shall go at it again by-and-by, so you need not look shocked. I intend to enter the Assembly Room to-night with Mrs Jamieson on one side, and my lady, Mrs Hoggins, on the other. You see if I don't
</text>
