<text>
Faites votre jeu, mesdames et messieurs
Le jeu ne va plus
A striking girl -- that Miss Harleth -- unlike others
Yes, she has got herself up as a sort of serpent now -- all green and silver, and winds her neck about a little more than usual
Oh, she must always be doing something extraordinary. She is that kind of girl, I fancy. Do you think her pretty, Mr. Vandernoodt
Very. A man might risk hanging for her -- I mean a fool might
You like a _nez retrousse_, then, and long narrow eyes
When they go with such an _ensemble_
The _ensemble du serpent_
If you will. Woman was tempted by a serpent; why not man
She is certainly very graceful; but she wants a tinge of color in her cheeks. It is a sort of Lamia beauty she has
On the contrary, I think her complexion one of her chief charms. It is a warm paleness; it looks thoroughly healthy. And that delicate nose with its gradual little upward curve is distracting. And then her mouth -- there never was a prettier mouth, the lips curled backward so finely, eh, Mackworth
Think so? I cannot endure that sort of mouth. It looks so self- complacent, as if it knew its own beauty -- the curves are too immovable. I like a mouth that trembles more
For my part, I think her odious
It is wonderful what unpleasant girls get into vogue. Who are these Langens? Does anybody know them
They are quite _comme il faut_. I have dined with them several times at the _Russie_. The baroness is English. Miss Harleth calls her cousin. The girl herself is thoroughly well-bred, and as clever as possible
Dear me! and the baron?". "A very good furniture picture
Your baroness is always at the roulette-table
I fancy she has taught the girl to gamble
Oh, the old woman plays a very sober game; drops a ten-franc piece here and there. The girl is more headlong. But it is only a freak
I hear she has lost all her winnings to-day. Are they rich? Who knows
Ah, who knows? Who knows that about anybody
Mr. Vandernoodt, you know everybody
Who is that near the door
There are half a dozen near the door. Do you mean that old Adonis in the George the Fourth wig
No, no; the dark-haired young man on the right with the dreadful expression
Dreadful, do you call it? I think he is an uncommonly fine fellow
But who is he
He is lately come to our hotel with Sir Hugo Mallinger
Sir Hugo Mallinger
Yes. Do you know him
No
He has a place near us, but he never comes to it. What did you say was the name of that gentleman near the door
Deronda -- Mr. Deronda
What a delightful name! Is he an Englishman
Yes. He is reported to be rather closely related to the baronet. You are interested in him
Yes. I think he is not like young men in general
And you don't admire young men in general
Not in the least. I always know what they will say. I can't at all guess what this Mr. Deronda would say. What _does_ he say
Nothing, chiefly. I sat with his party for a good hour last night on the terrace, and he never spoke -- and was not smoking either. He looked bored
Another reason why I should like to know him. I am always bored
I should think he would be charmed to have an introduction. Shall I bring it about? Will you allow it, baroness
Why not?-- since he is related to Sir Hugo Mallinger. It is a new _role_ of yours, Gwendolen, to be always bored
Until now you have always seemed eager about something from morning till night
That is just because I am bored to death. If I am to leave off play I must break my arm or my collar-bone. I must make something happen; unless you will go into Switzerland and take me up the Matterhorn
Perhaps this Mr. Deronda's acquaintance will do instead of the Matterhorn
Perhaps
Poor mamma
_A stranger who has found Miss Harleth's necklace returns it to her with the hope that she will not again risk the loss of it
Let no flower of the spring pass by us; let us crown ourselves with rosebuds before they be withered
Why did you marry again, mamma? It would have been nicer if you had not
You have no feeling, child
Well, dear, what do you think of the place
I think it is charming
A romantic place; anything delightful may happen in it; it would be a good background for anything. No one need be ashamed of living here
There is certainly nothing common about it
Oh, it would do for fallen royalty or any sort of grand poverty. We ought properly to have been living in splendor, and have come down to this. It would have been as romantic as could be. But I thought my uncle and aunt Gascoigne would be here to meet us, and my cousin Anna
We are early
You expect Mr. and Mrs. Gascoigne
Yes, madam; they were here yesterday to give particular orders about the fires and the dinner. But as to fires, I've had 'em in all the rooms for the last week, and everything is well aired. I could wish some of the furniture paid better for all the cleaning it's had, but I _think_ you'll see the brasses have been done justice to. I _think_ when Mr. and Mrs. Gascoigne come, they'll tell you nothing has been neglected. They'll be here at five, for certain
Mamma, mamma, pray come here
Here is an organ. I will be Saint Cecilia: some one shall paint me as Saint Cecilia. Jocosa (this was her name for Miss Merry), let down my hair. See, mamma
A charming picture, my dear
What a queer, quaint, picturesque room
I like these old embroidered chairs, and the garlands on the wainscot, and the pictures that may be anything. That one with the ribs -- nothing but ribs and darkness -- I should think that is Spanish, mamma
Oh, Gwendolen
How horrible
You will never stay in this room by yourself, Gwendolen
How dare you open things which were meant to be shut up, you perverse little creature
There is a lock -- where is the key? Let the key be found, or else let one be made, and let nobody open it again; or rather, let the key be brought to me
Let us go up to our own room, mamma
I don't know what you mean, Mrs. Startin
I mean the young lady that's to command us all-and well worthy for looks and figure
She'll know what key it is
If you have laid out what we want, go and see to the others, Bugle
I will help mamma
That is a becoming glass, Gwendolen; or is it the black and gold color that sets you off
I should make a tolerable St. Cecilia with some white roses on my head
only how about my nose, mamma? I think saint's noses never in the least turn up. I wish you had given me your perfectly straight nose; it would have done for any sort of character -- a nose of all work. Mine is only a happy nose; it would not do so well for tragedy
Oh, my dear, any nose will do to be miserable with in this world
Now, mamma
don't begin to be dull here. It spoils all my pleasure, and everything may be so happy now. What have you to be gloomy about _now_
Nothing, dear
It is always enough for me to see you happy
But you should be happy yourself
Can nobody be happy after they are quite young? You have made me feel sometimes as if nothing were of any use. With the girls so troublesome, and Jocosa so dreadfully wooden and ugly, and everything make-shift about us, and you looking so dull -- what was the use of my being anything? But now you _might_ be happy
So I shall, dear
Yes, but really. Not with a sort of make-believe
See what a hand and arm!-- much more beautiful than mine. Any one can see you were altogether more beautiful
No, no, dear; I was always heavier. Never half so charming as you are
Well, but what is the use of my being charming, if it is to end in my being dull and not minding anything? Is that what marriage always comes to
No, child, certainly not. Marriage is the only happy state for a woman, as I trust you will prove
I will not put up with it if it is not a happy state. I am determined to be happy -- at least not to go on muddling away my life as other people do, being and doing nothing remarkable. I have made up my mind not to let other people interfere with me as they have done. Here is some warm water ready for you, mamma
I am sure I have never crossed you, Gwendolen
You often want me to do what I don't like
You mean, to give Alice lessons
Yes. And I have done it because you asked me. But I don't see why I should, else. It bores me to death, she is so slow. She has no ear for music, or language, or anything else. It would be much better for her to be ignorant, mamma: it is her _role_, she would do it well
That is a hard thing to say of your poor sister, Gwendolen, who is so good to you, and waits on you hand and foot
I don't see why it is hard to call things by their right names, and put them in their proper places. The hardship is for me to have to waste my time on her. Now let me fasten up your hair, mamma
We must make haste; your uncle and aunt will be here soon. For heaven's sake, don't be scornful to _them_, my dear child! or to your cousin Anna, whom you will always be going out with. Do promise me, Gwendolen. You know, you can't expect Anna to be equal to you
I don't want her to be equal
Sold, but not paid for
You have outgrown Anna, my dear
She is not so old as you by a year, but her growing days are certainly over. I hope you will be excellent companions
A companion is just what I want. I am so glad we are come to live here. And mamma will be much happier now she is near you, aunt
You have brothers, Anna
I think you are enviable there
Yes
I am very fond of them; but of course their education is a great anxiety to papa. He used to say they made me a tomboy. I really was a great romp with Rex. I think you will like Rex. He will come home before Christmas
I remember I used to think you rather wild and shy; but it is difficult now to imagine you a romp
Of course, I am altered now; I am come out, and all that. But in reality I like to go blackberrying with Edwy and Lotta as well as ever. I am not very fond of going out; but I dare say I shall like it better now you will be often with me. I am not at all clever, and I never know what to say. It seems so useless to say what everybody knows, and I can think of nothing else, except what papa says
I shall like going out with you very much
Are you fond of riding
Yes, but we have only one Shetland pony amongst us. Papa says he can't afford more, besides the carriage-horses and his own nag; he has so many expenses
I intend to have a horse and ride a great deal now
Is the society pleasant in this neighborhood
Papa says it is, very. There are the clergymen all about, you know; and the Quallons, and the Arrowpoints, and Lord Brackenshaw, and Sir Hugo Mallinger's place, where there is nobody -- that's very nice, because we make picnics there -- and two or three families at Wanchester: oh, and old Mrs. Vulcany, at Nuttingwood, and
And it is always worth while to make a little sacrifice for a good style of house
especially where there is only a lady at the head. All the best people will call upon you; and you need give no expensive dinners. Of course, I have to spend a good deal in that way; it is a large item. But then I get my house for nothing. If I had to pay three hundred a year for my house I could not keep a table. My boys are too great a drain on me. You are better off than we are, in proportion; there is no great drain on you now, after your house and carriage
I assure you, Fanny, now that the children are growing up, I am obliged to cut and contrive
I am not a good manager by nature, but Henry has taught me. He is wonderful for making the best of everything; he allows himself no extras, and gets his curates for nothing. It is rather hard that he has not been made a prebendary or something, as others have been, considering the friends he has made and the need there is for men of moderate opinions in all respects. If the Church is to keep its position, ability and character ought to tell
Oh, my dear Nancy, you forget the old story -- thank Heaven, there are three hundred as good as I. And ultimately, we shall have no reason to complain, I am pretty sure. There could hardly be a more thorough friend than Lord Brackenshaw -- your landlord, you know, Fanny. Lady Brackenshaw will call upon you. And I have spoken for Gwendolen to be a member of our Archery Club -- the Brackenshaw Archery Club -- the most select thing anywhere. That is, if she has no objection
I should like it of all things
There is nothing I enjoy more than taking aim -- and hitting
Our Anna, poor child, is too short-sighed for archery. But I consider myself a first-rate shot, and you shall practice with me. I must make you an accomplished archer before our great meeting in July. In fact, as to neighborhood, you could hardly be better placed. There are the Arrowpoints -- they are some of our best people. Miss Arrowpoint is a delightful girl -- she has been presented at Court. They have a magnificent place -- Quetcham Hall -- worth seeing in point of art; and their parties, to which you are sure to be invited, are the best things of the sort we have. The archdeacon is intimate there, and they have always a good kind of people staying in the house. Mrs. Arrowpoint is peculiar, certainly; something of a caricature, in fact; but well-meaning. And Miss Arrowpoint is as nice as possible. It is not all young ladies who have mothers as handsome and graceful as yours and Anna's
My uncle and aunt, at least, are happy: they are not dull and dismal
Mamma, you have not spoken to my uncle about my riding
Gwendolen desires above all things to have a horse to ride -- a pretty, light, lady's horse
Do you think we can manage it
We could lend her the pony sometimes
That might be inconveniencing others, aunt, and would be no pleasure to me. I cannot endure ponies
I would rather give up some other indulgence and have a horse
She rides so well. She has had lessons, and the riding-master said she had so good a seat and hand she might be trusted with any mount
There is the price of the horse -- a good sixty with the best chance, and then his keep
There are the carriage-horses -- already a heavy item. And remember what you ladies cost in toilet now
I really wear nothing but two black dresses
And the younger girls, of course, require no toilet at present. Besides, Gwendolen will save me so much by giving her sisters lessons
If it were not for that, I must really have a more expensive governess, and masters besides
That is good -- that is decidedly good
The dear child has had no indulgences, no pleasures
I feel the expense is rather imprudent in this first year of our settling. But she really needs the exercise -- she needs cheering. And if you were to see her on horseback, it is something splendid
It is what we could not afford for Anna
But she, dear child, would ride Lotta's donkey and think it good enough
Certainly, a fine woman never looks better than on horseback
And Gwendolen has the figure for it. I don't say the thing should not be considered
We might try it for a time, at all events. It can be given up, if necessary
Well, I will consult Lord Brackenshaw's head groom. He is my _fidus Achates_ in the horsey way
Thanks
You are very kind
That he always is
I thought you were almost too indulgent about the horse for Gwendolen. She ought not to claim so much more than your own daughter would think of. Especially before we see how Fanny manages on her income. And you really have enough to do without taking all this trouble on yourself
My dear Nancy, one must look at things from every point of view. This girl is really worth some expense: you don't often see her equal. She ought to make a first-rate marriage, and I should not be doing my duty if I spared my trouble in helping her forward. You know yourself she has been under a disadvantage with such a father-in-law, and a second family, keeping her always in the shade. I feel for the girl, And I should like your sister and her family now to have the benefit of your having married rather a better specimen of our kind than she did
Rather better! I should think so. However, it is for me to be grateful that you will take so much on your shoulders for the sake of my sister and her children. I am sure I would not grudge anything to poor Fanny. But there is one thing I have been thinking of, though you have never mentioned it
What is that
The boys. I hope they will not be falling in love with Gwendolen
Don't presuppose anything of the kind, my dear, and there will be no danger. Rex will never be at home for long together, and Warham is going to India. It is the wiser plan to take it for granted that cousins will not fall in love. If you begin with precautions, the affair will come in spite of them. One must not undertake to act for Providence in these matters, which can no more be held under the hand than a brood of chickens. The boys will have nothing, and Gwendolen will have nothing. They can't marry. At the worst there would only be a little crying, and you can't save boys and girls from that
_Madelon._ -- Mon Dieu! que si tout le monde vous ressemblait, un roman serait bientot fini! La belle chose que ce serait, si d'abord Cyrus epousait Mandane, et qu'Aronce de plain-pied fut marie a Clelie! * * * Laissez-nous faire a loisir le tissu de notre roman, et n'en pressez pas tant la conclusion
Gwendolen will not rest without having the world at her feet
education
Who is that with Gascoigne
not less elegant than ingenious
By George! who is that girl with the awfully well-set head and jolly figure
She is not really so handsome if you come to examine her features
It is a certain style she has, which produces a great effect at first, but afterward she is less agreeable
You are fond of books as well as of music, riding, and archery, I hear
Catherine will be very glad to have so sympathetic a neighbor
It is I who am fortunate. Miss Arrowpoint will teach me what good music is. I shall be entirely a learner. I hear that she is a thorough musician
Catherine has certainly had every advantage. We have a first-rate musician in the house now -- Herr Klesmer; perhaps you know all his compositions. You must allow me to introduce him to you. You sing, I believe. Catherine plays three instruments, but she does not sing. I hope you you will let us hear you. I understand you are an accomplished singer
Oh, no!--'die Kraft ist schwach, allein die Lust ist gross,' as Mephistopheles says
Ah, you are a student of Goethe. Young ladies are so advanced now. I suppose you have read everything
No, really. I shall be so glad if you will tell me what to read. I have been looking into all the books in the library at Offendene, but there is nothing readable. The leaves all stick together and smell musty. I wish I could write books to amuse myself, as you can! How delightful it must be to write books after one's own taste instead of reading other people's! Home-made books must be so nice
I would give anything to write a book
And why should you not
You have but to begin as I did. Pen, ink, and paper are at everybody's command. But I will send you all I have written with pleasure
Thanks. I shall be so glad to read your writings. Being acquainted with authors must give a peculiar understanding of their books: one would be able to tell then which parts were funny and which serious. I am sure I often laugh in the wrong place
In Shakespeare, you know, and other great writers that we can never see. But I always want to know more than there is in the books
If you are interested in any of my subjects I can lend you many extra sheets in manuscript
These are things I dare say I shall publish eventually: several friends have urged me to do so, and one doesn't like to be obstinate. My Tasso, for example -- I could have made it twice the size
I dote on Tasso
Well, you shall have all my papers, if you like. So many, you know, have written about Tasso; but they are all wrong. As to the particular nature of his madness, and his feelings for Leonora, and the real cause of his imprisonment, and the character of Leonora, who, in my opinion, was a cold-hearted woman, else she would have married him in spite of her brother -- they are all wrong. I differ from everybody
How very interesting
I like to differ from everybody. I think it is so stupid to agree. That is the worst of writing your opinions; and make people agree with you
I know nothing of Tasso except the _Gerusalemme Liberata_, which we read and learned by heart at school
Ah, his life is more interesting than his poetry, I have constructed the early part of his life as a sort of romance. When one thinks of his father Bernardo, and so on, there is much that must be true
Imagination is often truer than fact
I shall be so glad to learn all about Tasso -- and his madness especially. I suppose poets are always a little mad
But it was not always found out, was it
I suppose some of them rolled their eyes in private. Mad people are often very cunning
Ah, here comes Herr Klesmer
Charming
It would be too cruel to a great musician. You cannot like to hear poor amateur singing
No, truly; but that makes nothing
That makes nothing. It is always acceptable to see you sing
Imagine what I have to go through with this professor! He can hardly tolerate anything we English do in music. We can only put up with his severity, and make use of it to find out the worst that can be said of us. It is a little comfort to know that; and one can bear it when every one else is admiring
I should be very much obliged to him for telling me the worst
I dare say I have been extremely ill taught, in addition to having no talent -- only liking for music
Yes, it is true: you have not been well taught
Still, you are not quite without gifts. You sing in tune, and you have a pretty fair organ. But you produce your notes badly; and that music which you sing is beneath you. It is a form of melody which expresses a puerile state of culture -- a dawdling, canting, see-saw kind of stuff -- the passion and thought of people without any breadth of horizon. There is a sort of self-satisfied folly about every phrase of such melody; no cries of deep, mysterious passion -- no conflict -- no sense of the universal. It makes men small as they listen to it. Sing now something larger. And I shall see
Oh, not now -- by-and-by
Yes, by-and-by. I always require half an hour to get up my courage after being criticised by Herr Klesmer. We will ask him to play to us now: he is bound to show us what is good music
I wish you would sing to us again, Miss Harleth
That is the style of music for me. I never can make anything of this tip-top playing. It is like a jar of leeches, where you can never tell either beginnings or endings. I could listen to your singing all day
Yes, we should be glad of something popular now -- another song from you would be a relaxation
That must be because you are in a puerile state of culture, and have no breadth of horizon. I have just learned that. I have been taught how bad my taste is, and am feeling growing pains. They are never pleasant
Well, we will not press anything disagreeably
I am glad you like this neighborhood
Exceedingly. There seems to be a little of everything and not much of anything
That is rather equivocal praise
Not with me. I like a little of everything; a little absurdity, for example, is very amusing. I am thankful for a few queer people; but much of them is a bore
I think there should be more croquet, for one thing
I am usually away, but if I were more here I should go in for a croquet club. You are one of the archers, I think. But depend upon it croquet is the game of the future. It wants writing up, though. One of our best men has written a poem on it, in four cantos;-- as good as Pope. I want him to publish it -- You never read anything better
I shall study croquet to-morrow. I shall take to it instead of singing
No, no, not that; but do take to croquet. I will send you Jenning's poem if you like. I have a manuscript copy
Is he a great friend of yours
Well, rather
Oh, if he is only rather, I think I will decline. Or, if you send it to me, will you promise not to catechise me upon it and ask me which part I like best? Because it is not so easy to know a poem without reading it as to know a sermon without listening
Decidedly
this girl is double and satirical. I shall be on my guard against her
Croyez-vous m'avoir humiliee pour m'avoir appris que la terre tourne autour du soleil? Je vous jure que je ne m'en estime pas moins
Do I look as well as Rachel, mamma
You have better arms than Rachel
your arms would do for anything, Gwen. But your voice is not so tragic as hers; it is not so deep
I can make it deeper, if I like
I think a higher voice is more tragic: it is more feminine; and the more feminine a woman is, the more tragic it seems when she does desperate actions
There may be something in that
But I don't know what good there is in making one's blood creep. And if there is anything horrible to be done, I should like it to be left to the men
Oh, mamma, you are so dreadfully prosaic! As if all the great poetic criminals were not women! I think the men are poor cautious creatures
Well, dear, and you -- who are afraid to be alone in the night -- I don't think you would be very bold in crime, thank God
I am not talking about reality, mamma
Anna, do ask my uncle to let us get up some charades at the rectory. Mr. Middleton and Warham could act with us -- just for practice. Mamma says it will not do to have Mr. Middleton consulting and rehearsing here. He is a stick, but we could give him suitable parts. Do ask, or else I will
Oh, not till Rex comes. He is so clever, and such a dear old thing, and he will act Napoleon looking over the sea. He looks just like Napoleon. Rex can do anything
I don't in the least believe in your Rex, Anna
He will turn out to be like those wretched blue and yellow water- colors of his which you hang up in your bedroom and worship
Very well, you will see
It is not that I know what is clever, but he has got a scholarship already, and papa says he will get a fellowship, and nobody is better at games. He is cleverer than Mr. Middleton, and everybody but you call Mr. Middleton clever
So he may be in a dark-lantern sort of way. But he _is_ a stick. If he had to say, 'Perdition catch my soul, but I do love her,' he would say it in just the same tone as, 'Here endeth the second lesson
Oh, Gwendolen
And it is very unkind of you to speak so of him, for he admires you very much. I heard Warham say one day to mamma, 'Middleton is regularly spooney upon Gwendolen.' She was very angry with him; but I know what it means. It is what they say at college for being in love
How can I help it
Perdition catch my soul if I love _him_
No, of course; papa, I think, would not wish it. And he is to go away soon. But it makes me sorry when you ridicule him
What shall you do to me when I ridicule Rex
Now, Gwendolen, dear, you _will not_
I could not bear it. But there really is nothing in him to ridicule. Only you may find out things. For no one ever thought of laughing at Mr. Middleton before you. Every one said he was nice-looking, and his manners perfect. I am sure I have always been frightened at him because of his learning and his square-cut coat, and his being a nephew of the bishop's, and all that. But you will not ridicule Rex -- promise me
You are a dear little coz
I don't ever want to do anything that will vex you. Especially if Rex is to make everything come off -- charades and everything
what some fellows did
coach
Something pleasant, children, I beseech you
I can't have any Greek wickedness
It is no worse than Christian wickedness, mamma
And less scandalous
Besides, one thinks of it as all gone by and done with. What do you say to Briseis being led away? I would be Achilles, and you would be looking round at me -- after the print we have at the rectory
That would be a good attitude for me
No. It will not do. There must be three men in proper costume, else it will be ridiculous
I have it
Hermione as the statue in Winter's Tale? I will be Leontes, and Miss Merry, Paulina, one on each side. Our dress won't signify
it will be more Shakespearian and romantic if Leontes looks like Napoleon, and Paulina like a modern spinster
Music, awake her, strike
A magnificent bit of _plastik_ that
Was it part of the play
Oh, no, surely not. Miss Harleth was too much affected. A sensitive creature
Dear me! I was not aware that there was a painting behind that panel; were you
No; how should I? Some eccentricity in one of the Earl's family long ago, I suppose
How very painful! Pray shut it up
Was the door locked? It is very mysterious. It must be the spirits
But there is no medium present
How do you know that? We must conclude that there is, when such things happen
Oh, the door was not locked; it was probably the sudden vibration from the piano that sent it open
it will not start open again
We have to thank you for devising a perfect climax: you could not have chosen a finer bit of _plastik_
I know the door was locked before the housekeeper gave me the key, for I tried it myself afterward. Some one must have been to my drawer and taken the key
Please forgive me, Gwendolen
_Perigot_. As the bonny lasse passed by, _Willie_. Hey, ho, bonnilasse! _P_. She roode at me with glauncing eye, _W_. As clear as the crystal glasse. _P_. All as the sunny beame so bright, _W_. Hey, ho, the sunnebeame! _P_. Glaunceth from Phoebus' face forthright, _W_. So love into thy heart did streame
The kindliest symptom, yet the most alarming crisis in the ticklish state of youth; the nourisher and destroyer of hopeful wits; * * * the servitude above freedom; the gentle mind's religion; the liberal superstition
Gwendolen is always very good to me
Where are you going, Rex
Going to see the hounds throw off at the Three Barns
Are you going to take Gwendolen
She told you, did she
No, but I thought -- Does papa know you are going
Not that I am aware of. I don't suppose he would trouble himself about the matter
You are going to use his horse
He knows I do that whenever I can
Don't let Gwendolen ride after the hounds, Rex
Why not
Papa and mamma and aunt Davilow all wish her not to. They think it is not right for her
Why should you suppose she is going to do what is not right
Gwendolen minds nobody sometimes
Then she would not mind me
Oh Rex, I cannot bear it. You will make yourself very unhappy
Nannie, Nannie, what on earth is the matter with you
She will not care for you one bit -- I know she never will
Anna had got it into her head that you would want to ride after the hounds this morning
Did she
What a little clairvoyant she is
Shall you
I don't know. I can't tell what I shall do till I get there. Clairvoyants are often wrong: they foresee what is likely. I am not fond of what is likely: it is always dull. I do what is unlikely
Ah, there you tell me a secret. When once I knew what people in general would be likely to do, I should know you would do the opposite. So you would have come round to a likelihood of your own sort. I shall be able to calculate on you. You couldn't surprise me
Yes, I could. I should turn round and do what was likely for people in general
You see you can't escape some sort of likelihood. And contradictoriness makes the strongest likelihood of all. You must give up a plan
No, I shall not. My plan is to do what pleases me
Can you manage to feel only what pleases you
Of course not; that comes from what other people do. But if the world were pleasanter, one would only feel what was pleasant. Girls' lives are so stupid: they never do what they like
I thought that was more the case of the men. They are forced to do hard things, and are often dreadfully bored, and knocked to pieces too. And then, if we love a girl very dearly we want to do as she likes, so after all you have your own way
I don't believe it. I never saw a married woman who had her own way
What should you like to do
Oh, I don't know!-- go to the North Pole, or ride steeple-chases, or go to be a queen in the East like Lady Hester Stanhope
You don't mean you would never be married
No; I didn't say that. Only when I married, I should not do as other women do
You might do just as you liked if you married a man who loved you more dearly than anything else in the world
I know one who does
Don't talk of Mr. Middleton, for heaven's sake
that is Anna's chant. I hear the hounds. Let us go on
Glad to see you here this fine morning, Miss Harleth
We shall have a first-rate run. A pity you didn't go with us. Have you ever tried your little chestnut at a ditch? you wouldn't be afraid, eh
Not the least in the world
I have often taken him at some rails and a ditch too, near
Ah, by Jove
Lord, sir, let me shove it in again for you! I's seen Nash, the bone- setter, do it, and done it myself for our little Sally twice over. It's all one and the same, shoulders is. If you'll trusten to me and tighten your mind up a bit, I'll do it for you in no time
Come then, old fellow
come alonk -- you musn't make believe as you can't
What is the matter
I'm very sorry, sir; Primrose has fallen down and broken his knees
Where have you been with him
To the Three Barns to see the hounds throw off
And you were fool enough to follow
Yes, sir. I didn't go at any fences, but the horse got his leg into a hole
And you got hurt yourself, I hope, eh
I got my shoulder put out, but a young blacksmith put it in again for me. I'm just a little battered, that's all
Well, sit down
I'm very sorry about the horse, sir; I knew it would be a vexation to you
And what has become of Gwendolen
I am anxious to know -- I should like to go or send at once to Offendene -- but she rides so well, and I think she would keep up -- there would most likely be many round her
I suppose it was she who led you on, eh
It was natural for her to want to go: she didn't intend it beforehand -- she was led away by the spirit of the thing. And, of course, I went when she went
But now you observe, young gentleman, that you are not furnished with a horse which will enable you to play the squire to your cousin. You must give up that amusement. You have spoiled my nag for me, and that is enough mischief for one vacation. I shall beg you to get ready to start for Southampton to-morrow and join Stilfox, till you go up to Oxford with him. That will be good for your bruises as well as your studies
I hope you will not insist on my going immediately, sir
Do you feel too ill
No, not that -- but
I want to go to Offendene, but I can go this evening
I am going there myself. I can bring word about Gwendolen, if that is what you want
Father, I can't go away without telling her that I love her, and knowing that she loves me
My dear boy, you are too young to be taking momentous, decisive steps of that sort. This is a fancy which you have got into your head during an idle week or two: you must set to work at something and dismiss it. There is every reason against it. An engagement at your age would be totally rash and unjustifiable; and moreover, alliances between first cousins are undesirable. Make up your mind to a brief disappointment. Life is full of them. We have all got to be broken in; and this is a mild beginning for you
No, not mild. I can't bear it. I shall be good for nothing. I shouldn't mind anything, if it were settled between us. I could do anything then
But it's of no use to pretend that I will obey you. I can't do it. If I said I would, I should be sure to break my word. I should see Gwendolen again
Well, wait till to-morrow morning, that we may talk of the matter again -- you will promise me that
Still, I do hope you will not do it again, Gwendolen. I should never have a moment's quiet. Her father died by an accident, you know
Mamma, dear
children don't take after their parents in broken legs
Oh, he must have been left far behind, and gone home in despair
Well, the exploit has ended better for you than for Rex
Yes, I dare say he had to make a terrible round. You have not taught Primrose to take the fences, uncle
Rex has had a fall
Oh, poor fellow! he is not hurt, I hope
Good heavens! There
He put his shoulder out, and got some bruises, I believe
Oh, poor fellow! it is nothing serious, then
He got his arm set again rather oddly. Some blacksmith -- not a parishioner of mine -- was on the field -- a loose fish, I suppose, but handy, and set the arm for him immediately. So after all, I believe, I and Primrose come off worst. The horse's knees are cut to pieces. He came down in a hole, it seems, and pitched Rex over his head
You are a pretty young lady -- to laugh at other people's calamities
Pray forgive me, uncle. Now Rex is safe, it is so droll to fancy the figure he and Primrose would cut -- in a lane all by themselves -- only a blacksmith running up. It would make a capital caricature of 'Following the Hounds
How can you laugh at broken bones, child
I wish we had never allowed you to have the horse. You will see that we were wrong
at least I was, to encourage her in asking for it
Yes, seriously, Gwendolen
I strongly recommend you -- I shall ask you to oblige me so far -- not to repeat your adventure of to-day. Lord Brackenshaw is very kind, but I feel sure that he would concur with me in what I say. To be spoken of as 'the young lady who hunts' by way of exception, would give a tone to the language about you which I am sure you would not like. Depend upon it, his lordship would not choose that Lady Beatrice or Lady Maria should hunt in this part of the country, if they were old enough to do so. When you are married, it will be different: you may do whatever your husband sanctions. But if you intend to hunt, you must marry a man who can keep horses
I don't know why I should do anything so horrible as to marry without _that_ prospect, at least
She always speaks in that way about marriage
but it will be different when she has seen the right person
Her heart has never been in the least touched, that you know of
It was only last night she said to me, 'Mamma, I wonder how girls manage to fall in love. It is easy to make them do it in books. But men are too ridiculous
How are your bruises, Rex
Oh, not very mellow yet, sir; only beginning to turn a little
You don't feel quite ready for a journey to Southampton
Not quite
Well, you can wait till to-morrow, and go to say goodbye to them at Offendene
I can only be thankful that she doesn't care about him
There are things in Gwendolen I cannot reconcile myself to. My Anna is worth two of her, with all her beauty and talent. It looks very ill in her that she will not help in the schools with Anna -- not even in the Sunday-school. What you or I advise is of no consequence to her: and poor Fannie is completely under her thumb. But I know you think better of her
Oh, my dear, there is no harm in the girl. It is only that she has a high spirit, and it will not do to hold the reins too tight. The point is, to get her well married. She has a little too much fire in her for her present life with her mother and sisters. It is natural and right that she should be married soon -- not to a poor man, but one who can give her a fitting position
Where is Gwendolen
I sent up her breakfast this morning. She needed a long rest
Aunt, I want to speak to Gwendolen -- I want to see her alone
Very well, dear; go into the drawing-room. I will send her there
I hope you are not much hurt, Rex; I deserve that you should reproach me for your accident
Not at all
There is hardly any thing the matter with me. I am so glad you had the pleasure: I would willingly pay for it by a tumble, only I was sorry to break the horse's knees
My father wants me to go to Southampton for the rest of the vacation
Southampton! That's a stupid place to go to, isn't it
It would be to me, because you would not be there
Should you mind about me going away, Gwendolen
Of course. Every one is of consequence in this dreary country
Are you angry with me, Gwendolen? Why do you treat me in this way all at once
Treat you? Nonsense! I am only rather cross. Why did you come so very early? You must expect to find tempers in dishabille
Be as cross with me as you like -- only don't treat me with indifference
All the happiness of my life depends on your loving me -- if only a little -- better than any one else
Pray don't make love to me! I hate it
Oh I am tired of them all in the books
Is that last word you have to say to me, Gwendolen? Will it always be so
About making love? Yes. But I don't dislike you for anything else
good-bye
My child, my child, what is it
Oh, mamma, what can become of my life? There is nothing worth living for
Why, dear
I shall never love anybody. I can't love people. I hate them
The time will come, dear, the time will come
I can't bear any one to be very near me but you
To-morrow
To-morrow
Let me alone
God bless you, my boy
Perhaps it is wicked of me, but I think I never _can_ love her again
I know of course it is better, and we ought to be thankful that she is not in love with the poor boy; but really. Henry, I think she is hard; she has the heart of a coquette. I can not help thinking that she must have made him believe something, or the disappointment would not have taken hold of him in that way. And some blame attaches to poor Fanny; she is quite blind about that girl
The less said on that point the better, Nancy. I ought to have been more awake myself. As to the boy, be thankful if nothing worse ever happens to him. Let the thing die out as quickly as possible; and especially with regard to Gwendolen -- let it be as if it had never been
Nannie
What a plague I am
Do speak to me
I'll tell you what I'm thinking of, Nannie. I will go to Canada, or somewhere of that sort
Oh, Rex, not for always
Yes, to get my bread there. I should like to build a hut, and work hard at clearing, and have everything wild about me, and a great wide quiet
And not take me with you
How could I
I should like it better than anything; and settlers go with their families. I would sooner go there than stay here in England. I could make the fires, and mend the clothes, and cook the food; and I could learn how to make the bread before we went. It would be nicer than anything -- like playing at life over again, as we used to do when we made our tent with the drugget, and had our little plates and dishes
Father and mother would not let you go
Yes, I think they would, when I explained everything. It would save money; and papa would have more to bring up the boys with
Well, my children
May we sit down with you a little, papa
Rex has something to say
With all my heart
You know all about what has upset me, father
I am quite done up for life in this part of the world. I am sure it will be no use my going back to Oxford. I couldn't do any reading. I should fail, and cause you expense for nothing. I want to have your consent to take another course, sir
If you would allow me a small outfit, I should like to go to the colonies and work on the land there
Oh, and with me, papa
Rex would want some one to take care of him, you know -- some one to keep house. And we shall never, either of us, be married. And I should cost nothing, and I should be so happy. I know it would be hard to leave you and mamma; but there are all the others to bring up, and we two should be no trouble to you any more
You will admit that my experience gives me some power of judging for you, and that I can probably guide you in practical matters better than you can guide yourself
Yes, sir
And perhaps you will admit -- though I don't wish to press that point -- that you are bound in duty to consider my judgment and wishes
I have never yet placed myself in opposition to you, sir
But you will do so if you persist in setting your mind toward a rash and foolish procedure, and deafening yourself to considerations which my experience of life assures me of. You think, I suppose, that you have had a shock which has changed all your inclinations, stupefied your brains, unfitted you for anything but manual labor, and given you a dislike to society? Is that what you believe
Something like that. I shall never be up to the sort of work I must do to live in this part of the world. I have not the spirit for it. I shall never be the same again. And without any disrespect to you, father, I think a young fellow should be allowed to choose his way of life, if he does nobody any harm. There are plenty to stay at home, and those who like might be allowed to go where there are empty places
But suppose I am convinced on good evidence -- as I am -- that this state of mind of yours is transient, and that if you went off as you propose, you would by-and-by repent, and feel that you had let yourself slip back from the point you have been gaining by your education till now? Have you not strength of mind enough to see that you had better act on my assurance for a time, and test it? In my opinion, so far from agreeing with you that you should be free to turn yourself into a colonist and work in your shirt- sleeves with spade and hatchet -- in my opinion you have no right whatever to expatriate yourself until you have honestly endeavored to turn to account the education you have received here. I say nothing of the grief to your mother and me
I'm very sorry; but what can I do? I can't study -- that's certain
Not just now, perhaps. You will have to miss a term. I have made arrangements for you -- how you are to spend the next two months. But I confess I am disappointed in you, Rex. I thought you had more sense than to take up such ideas -- to suppose that because you have fallen into a very common trouble, such as most men have to go through, you are loosened from all bonds of duty -- just as if your brain had softened and you were no longer a responsible being
You assent to my arrangement, then
I'll try what I can do, sir. I can't promise
Oh, papa
it is very hard for him. Doesn't he look ill
Yes, but he will soon be better; it will all blow over. And now, Anna, be as quiet as a mouse about it all. Never let it be mentioned when he is gone
No, papa. But I would not be like Gwendolen for any thing -- to have people fall in love with me so. It is very dreadful
I should have done with going out, and gloves, and crinoline, and having to talk when I am taken to dinner -- and all that
It would be a mercy, Fanny, if that girl were well married
I hear Mr. Grandcourt has got two places of his own, but he comes to Diplow for the hunting. It is to be hoped he will set a good example in the neighborhood. Have you heard what sort of a young man he is, Henry
It would not signify about her being in love, if she would only accept the right person
Tu seras heureuse, ma chere
Oui, maman, comme toi
How I pity all the other girls at the Archery Meeting -- all thinking of Mr. Grandcourt! And they have not a shadow of a chance
Now you know they have not, mamma. You and my uncle and aunt -- you all intend him to fall in love with me
Oh, my, dear, that is not so certain. Miss Arrowpoint has charms which you have not
I know, but they demand thought. My arrow will pierce him before he has time for thought. He will declare himself my slave -- I shall send him round the world to bring me back the wedding ring of a happy woman -- in the meantime all the men who are between him and the title will die of different diseases -- he will come back Lord Grandcourt -- but without the ring -- and fall at my feet. I shall laugh at him -- he will rise in resentment -- I shall laugh more -- he will call for his steed and ride to Quetcham, where he will find Miss Arrowpoint just married to a needy musician, Mrs. Arrowpoint tearing her cap off, and Mr. Arrowpoint standing by. Exit Lord Grandcourt, who returns to Diplow, and, like M. Jabot, _change de linge_
Why, what kind of a man do you imagine him to be, Gwendolen
Let me see
Short -- just above my shoulder -- crying to make himself tall by turning up his mustache and keeping his beard long -- a glass in his right eye to give him an air of distinction -- a strong opinion about his waistcoat, but uncertain and trimming about the weather, on which he will try to draw me out. He will stare at me all the while, and the glass in his eye will cause him to make horrible faces, especially when he smiles in a flattering way. I shall cast down my eyes in consequence, and he will perceive that I am not indifferent to his attentions. I shall dream that night that I am looking at the extraordinary face of a magnified insect -- and the next morning he will make an offer of his hand; the sequel as before
That is a portrait of some one you have seen already, Gwen. Mr. Grandcourt may be a delightful young man for what you know
Oh, yes
I wonder what sort of behavior a delightful young man would have? I know he would have hunters and racers, and a London house and two country-houses -- one with battlements and another with a veranda. And I feel sure that with a little murdering he might get a title
Don't talk in that way, child, for heaven's sake! you do read such books -- they give you such ideas of everything. I declare when your aunt and I were your age we knew nothing about wickedness. I think it was better so
Why did you not bring me up in that way, mamma
Mamma, mamma! I was only speaking in fun. I meant nothing
How could I, Gwendolen
Your will was always too strong for me -- if everything else had been different
Dear mamma, I don't find fault with you -- I love you
How can you help what I am? Besides, I am very charming. Come, now
Really -- I am contented with myself. I like myself better than I should have liked my aunt and you. How dreadfully dull you must have been
Mamma, I see now why girls are glad to be married -- to escape being expected to please everybody but themselves
anything you like
That girl is like a high-mettled racer
First chop! tremendously pretty too
I never saw her look better
What extreme guys those artistic fellows usually are
Do look at the figure he cuts, bowing with his hand on his heart to Lady Brackenshaw -- and Mrs. Arrowpoint's feather just reaching his shoulder
You are one of the profane
You are blind to the majesty of genius. Herr Klesmer smites me with awe; I feel crushed in his presence; my courage all oozes from me
Ah, you understand all about his music
No, indeed
it is he who understands all about mine and thinks it pitiable
It is not addressed to the ears of the future, I suppose. I'm glad of that: it suits mine
Oh, you are very kind. But how remarkably well Miss Arrowpoint looks to- day! She would make quite a fine picture in that gold-colored dress
Too splendid, don't you think
Well, perhaps a little too symbolical -- too much like the figure of Wealth in an allegory
How does the scoring stand, I wonder
It seems to me that Miss Harleth is likely to win the gold arrow
Gad, I think she will, if she carries it on! she is running Juliet Fenn hard. It is wonderful for one in her first year. Catherine is not up to her usual mark
But she got the gold arrow last time. And there's a luck even in these games of skill. That's better. It gives the hinder ones a chance
Catherine will be very glad for others to win
she is so magnanimous. It was entirely her considerateness that made us bring Herr Klesmer instead of Canon Stopley, who had expressed a wish to come. For her own pleasure, I am sure she would rather have brought the Canon; but she is always thinking of others. I told her it was not quite _en regle_ to bring one so far out of our own set; but she said, 'Genius itself is not _en regle_; it comes into the world to make new rules.' And one must admit that
Ay, to be sure
For my part, I am not magnanimous; I should like to win. But, confound it! I never have the chance now. I'm getting old and idle. The young ones beat me. As old Nestor says -- the gods don't give us everything at one time: I was a young fellow once, and now I am getting an old and wise one. Old, at any rate; which is a gift that comes to everybody if they live long enough, so it raises no jealousy
Oh, my lord, people who have been neighbors twenty years must not talk to each other about age
Years, as the Tuscans say, are made for the letting of houses. But where is our new neighbor? I thought Mr. Grandcourt was to be here to-day
Ah, by the way, so he was. The time's getting on too
But he only got to Diplow the other day. He came to us on Tuesday and said he had been a little bothered. He may have been pulled in another direction. Why, Gascoigne
this is a little too bad; you not only beat us yourself, but you bring up your niece to beat all the archeresses
It _is_ rather scandalous in her to get the better of elder members
But it is not my doing, my lord. I only meant her to make a tolerable figure, without surpassing any one
It is not my fault, either
If I am to aim, I can't help hitting
Ay, ay, that may be a fatal business for some people
The time's getting on, as you say. But Grandcourt is always late. I notice in town he's always late, and he's no bowman -- understands nothing about it. But I told him he must come; he would see the flower of the neighborhood here. He asked about you -- had seen Arrowpoint's card. I think you had not made his acquaintance in town. He has been a good deal abroad. People don't know him much
No; we are strangers
But that is not what might have been expected. For his uncle Sir Hugo Mallinger and I are great friends when we meet
I don't know; uncles and nephews are not so likely to be seen together as uncles and nieces
But just come with me one instant, Gascoigne, will you? I want to speak a word about the clout-shooting
Miss Harleth, here is a gentleman who is not willing to wait any longer for an introduction. He has been getting Mrs. Davilow to send me with him. Will you allow me to introduce Mr. Mallinger Grandcourt?" 

BOOK II -- MEETING STREAMS
He is not ridiculous
I used to think archery was a great bore
Are you converted to-day
Yes, since I saw you shooting. In things of this sort one generally sees people missing and simpering
I suppose you are a first-rate shot with a rifle
I have left off shooting
Oh then you are a formidable person. People who have done things once and left them off make one feel very contemptible, as if one were using cast- off fashions. I hope you have not left off all follies, because I practice a great many
What do you call follies
Well, in general I think, whatever is agreeable is called a folly. But you have not left off hunting, I hear
One must do something
And do you care about the turf?-- or is that among the things you have left off
I run a horse now and then; but I don't go in for the thing as some men do. Are you fond of horses
Yes, indeed: I never like my life so well as when I am on horseback, having a great gallop. I think of nothing. I only feel myself strong and happy
Do you like danger
I don't know. When I am on horseback I never think of danger. It seems to me that if I broke my bones I should not feel it. I should go at anything that came in my way
You would perhaps like tiger-hunting or pig-sticking. I saw some of that for a season or two in the East. Everything here is poor stuff after that
_You_ are fond of danger, then
One must have something or other. But one gets used to it
I begin to think I am very fortunate, because everything is new to me: it is only that I can't get enough of it. I am not used to anything except being dull, which I should like to leave off as you have left off shooting
Why are you dull
This is a dreadful neighborhood. There is nothing to be done in it. That is why I practiced my archery
You have made yourself queen of it. I imagine you will carry the first prize
I don't know that. I have great rivals. Did you not observe how well Miss Arrowpoint shot
Miss Arrowpoint. No -- that is, yes
Shall we go now and hear what the scoring says? Every one is going to the other end now -- shall we join them? I think my uncle is looking toward me. He perhaps wants me
You have just missed the gold arrow, Gwendolen
Miss Juliet Fenn scores eight above you
I am very glad to hear it. I should have felt that I was making myself too disagreeable -- taking the best of everything
intending bridegrooms
I wonder which style Miss Arrowpoint admires most
Shall we meet again in the ball-room
You were wrong for once Gwendolen
In what, mamma
About Mr. Grandcourt's appearance and manners. You can't find anything ridiculous in him
I suppose I could if I tried, but I don't want to do it
She knows, as I do, that our friends are ready to quarrel over a husband for us
and she is determined not to enter into the quarrel
I think Miss Arrowpoint has the best manners I ever saw
I wish I were like her
Why? Are you getting discontented with yourself, Gwen
No; but I am discontented with things. She seems contented
I am sure you ought to be satisfied to-day. You must have enjoyed the shooting. I saw you did
Oh, that is over now, and I don't know what will come next
The dancing will come next
You We sure to enjoy that
I shall only dance in the quadrille. I told Mr. Clintock so. I shall not waltz or polk with any one
Why in the world do you say that all on a sudden
I can't bear having ugly people so near me
Whom do you mean by ugly people
Oh, plenty
Mr. Clintock, for example, is not ugly
Well, I hate woolen cloth touching me
Fancy
Gwendolen says she will not waltz or polk
She is rather given to whims, I think
It would be more becoming in her to behave as other young ladies do on such an occasion as this; especially when she has had the advantage of first- rate dancing lessons
Why should I dance if I don't like it, aunt? It is not in the catechism
My _dear_
Are you under a vow, Miss Harleth
You waltzed with me in February
Gwendolen has usually good reasons
Mr. Grandcourt is a man of taste. He likes to see you dancing
Perhaps he likes to look at what is against his taste
He may be so tired of admiring that he likes disgust for variety
Those words are not suitable to your lips
Are you as critical of words as of music
Certainly I am. I should require your words to be what your face and form are -- always among the meanings of a noble music
That is a compliment as well as a correction. I am obliged for both. But do you know I am bold enough to wish to correct _you_, and require you to understand a joke
One may understand jokes without liking them
I have had opera books sent me full of jokes; it was just because I understood them that I did not like them. The comic people are ready to challenge a man because he looks grave. 'You don't see the witticism, sir?' 'No, sir, but I see what you meant.' Then I am what we call ticketed as a fellow without _esprit_. But, in fact
I am very sensible to wit and humor
I am glad you tell me that
Pray, who is that standing near the card-room door
He is a friend of yours, I think
No, no; an amateur I have seen in town; Lush, a Mr. Lush -- too fond of Meyerbeer and Scribe -- too fond of the mechanical-dramatic
Thanks. I wanted to know whether you thought his face and form required that his words should be among the meanings of noble music
May I ask if you are tired of dancing, Miss Harleth
Not in the least
Will you do me the honor -- the next -- or another quadrille
I should have been very happy
but I am engaged for the next to Mr. Clintock -- and indeed I perceive that I am doomed for every quadrille; I have not one to dispose of
I am unfortunate in being too late
It seemed to me that you did not care for dancing
I thought it might be one of the things you had left off
Yes, but I have not begun to dance with you
You make dancing a new thing, as you make archery
Is novelty always agreeable
No, no -- not always
Then I don't know whether to feel flattered or not. When you had once danced with me there would be no more novelty in it
On the contrary, there would probably be much more
That is deep. I don't understand
It is difficult to make Miss Harleth understand her power
I think she does not generally strike people as slow to understand
Mamma
I am adorably stupid, and want everything explained to me -- when the meaning is pleasant
If you are stupid, I admit that stupidity is adorable
I begin to think that my cavalier has forgotten me
I see the quadrille is being formed
He deserves to be renounced
I think he is very pardonable
There must have been some misunderstanding
Mr. Clintock was too anxious about the engagement to have forgotten it
Miss Harleth, Mr. Clintock has charged me to express to you his deep regret that he was obliged to leave without having the pleasure of dancing with you again. An express came from his father, the archdeacon; something important; he was to go. He was _au desespoir_
Oh, he was very good to remember the engagement under the circumstances
I am sorry he was called away
Then I can profit by Mr. Clintock's misfortune
May I hope that you will let me take his place
I shall be very happy to dance the next quadrille with you
I hope you will vote with us, Miss Harleth, and Mr. Grandcourt too, though he is not an archer
Diplow would be a good place for the meeting, and more convenient: there's a fine bit between the oaks toward the north gate
I should like to continue walking
Do you like this kind of thing
Yes
Gwendolen, dear, let me present Mr. Lush to you
I want to put on my burnous
Pray, permit me
No, thank you
You had perhaps better put it on
Thanks; perhaps it would be wise
O gentlemen, the time of life is short; To spend that shortness basely were too long, If life did ride upon a dial's point, Still ending at the arrival of an hour
Turn out that brute, will you
Shall you ride or drive to Quetcham to-day
I am not going to Quetcham
You did not go yesterday
I suppose you sent my card and inquiries
I went myself at four, and said you were sure to be there shortly. They would suppose some accident prevented you from fulfilling the intention. Especially if you go to-day
What men are invited here with their wives
The Captain and Mrs. Torrington come next week. Then there are Mr. Hollis and Lady Flora, and the Cushats and the Gogoffs
Rather a ragged lot
Why did you ask the Gogoffs? When you write invitations in my name, be good enough to give me a list, instead of bringing down a giantess on me without my knowledge. She spoils the look of the room
You invited the Gogoffs yourself when you met them in Paris
What has my meeting them in Paris to do with it? I told you to give me a list
Are there any other couples you would like to invite
Yes; think of some decent people, with a daughter or two. And one of your damned musicians. But not a comic fellow
I wonder if Klesmer would consent to come to us when he leaves Quetcham. Nothing but first-class music will go down with Miss Arrowpoint
What in the name of nonsense have I to do with Miss Arrowpoint and her music
Well, something
You need not give yourself much trouble, perhaps. But some forms must be gone through before a man can marry a million
Very likely. But I am not going to marry a million
That's a pity -- to fling away an opportunity of this sort, and knock down your own plans
_Your_ plans, I suppose you mean
You have some debts, you know, and things may turn out inconveniently after all. The heirship is not _absolutely_ certain
It really is a fine opportunity. The father and mother ask for nothing better, I can see, and the daughter's looks and manners require no allowances, any more than if she hadn't a sixpence. She is not beautiful; but equal to carrying any rank. And she is not likely to refuse such prospects as you can offer her
Perhaps not
The father and mother would let you do anything you like with them
But I should not like to do anything with them
Good God, Grandcourt! after your experience, will you let a whim interfere with your comfortable settlement in life
Spare your oratory. I know what I am going to do
What
I am going to marry the other girl
Have you fallen in love
I am going to marry her
You have made her an offer already, then
No
She is a young lady with a will of her own, I fancy. Extremely well fitted to make a rumpus. She would know what she liked
She doesn't like you
Perfectly true
However, if you and she are devoted to each other, that will be enough
Check, old boy
Philistia, be thou glad of me
Is he a man she would be happy with
Well, perhaps as happy as she would be with any one else -- or as most other women are
mean circumstances
not going to do as other women did
How do you like Criterion's paces
He is delightful to ride. I should like to have a leap with him, if it would not frighten mamma. There was a good wide channel we passed five minutes ago. I should like to have a gallop back and take it
Pray do. We can take it together
No, thanks. Mamma is so timid -- if she saw me it might make her ill
Let me go and explain. Criterion would take it without fail
No -- indeed -- you are very kind -- but it would alarm her too much. I dare take any leap when she is not by; but I do it and don't tell her about it
We can let the carriage pass and then set off
No, no, pray don't think of it any more: I spoke quite randomly
But Mrs. Davilow knows I shall take care of you
Yes, but she would think of you as having to take care of my broken neck
I should like to have the right always to take care of you
Oh, I am not sure that I want to be taken care of: if I chose to risk breaking my neck, I should like to be at liberty to do it
Damn her
This is a bore. Shall we go up there
Oh, certainly -- since we are exploring
There is nothing to be seen here: the thing was not worth climbing
What sort of a place do you prefer
Different places are agreeable in their way. On the whole, I think, I prefer places that are open and cheerful. I am not fond of anything sombre
Your place of Offendene is too sombre
It is, rather
You will not remain there long, I hope
Oh, yes, I think so. Mamma likes to be near her sister
It is not to be supposed that _you_ will always live there, though Mrs. Davilow may
I don't know. We women can't go in search of adventures -- to find out the North-West Passage or the source of the Nile, or to hunt tigers in the East. We must stay where we grow, or where the gardeners like to transplant us. We are brought up like the flowers, to look as pretty as we can, and be dull without complaining. That is my notion about the plants; they are often bored, and that is the reason why some of them have got poisonous. What do you think
I quite agree. Most things are bores
But a woman can be married
Some women can
You, certainly, unless you are obstinately cruel
I am not sure that I am not both cruel and obstinate
Are you as uncertain about yourself as you make others about you
I am quite uncertain about myself; I don't know how uncertain others may be
And you wish them to understand that you don't care
I did not say that
You do care, then
Ha! my whip
It is all coquetting
the next time I beckon she will come down
Something has happened, dear
Mr. Grandcourt has been saying something?-- Tell me, dear
What am I to tell you, mamma
I am sure something has agitated you. You ought to confide in me, Gwen. You ought not to leave me in doubt and anxiety
Mamma, dear, please don't be miserable
It only makes me more so. I am in doubt myself
About Mr. Grandcourt's intentions
No; not at all
About whether you will accept him, then
Precisely
Have you given him a doubtful answer
I have given him no answer at all
He _has_ spoken so that you could not misunderstand him
As far as I would let him speak
You expect him to persevere
You don't consider that you have discouraged him
I dare say not
I thought you liked him, dear
So I do, mamma, as liking goes. There is less to dislike about him than about most men. He is quiet and _distingue_
Indeed he has all the qualities that would make a husband tolerable -- battlement, veranda, stable, etc., no grins and no glass in his eye
Do be serious with me for a moment, dear. Am I to understand that you mean to accept him
Oh, pray, mamma, leave me to myself
My dear
I want to speak to you on a subject which is more momentous than any other with regard to your welfare. You will guess what I mean. But I shall speak to you with perfect directness: in such matters I consider myself bound to act as your father. You have no objection, I hope
Oh dear, no, uncle. You have always been very kind to me
It is naturally a satisfaction to me that the prospect of a marriage for you -- advantageous in the highest degree -- has presented itself so early. I do not know exactly what has passed between you and Mr. Grandcourt, but I presume there can be little doubt, from the way in which he has distinguished you, that he desires to make you his wife
Have you any doubt of that yourself, my dear
I suppose that is what he has been thinking of. But he may have changed his mind to-morrow
Why to-morrow? Has he made advances which you have discouraged
I think he meant -- he began to make advances -- but I did not encourage them. I turned the conversation
Will you confide in me so far as to tell me your reasons
I am not sure that I had any reasons, uncle
You are quite capable of reflecting, Gwendolen. You are aware that this is not a trivial occasion, and it concerns your establishment for life under circumstances which may not occur again. You have a duty here both to yourself and your family. I wish to understand whether you have any ground for hesitating as to your acceptance of Mr. Grandcourt
I suppose I hesitate without grounds
Is he disagreeable to you personally
No
Have you heard anything of him which has affected you disagreeably
I have heard nothing about him except that he is a great match
and that affects me very agreeably
Then, my dear Gwendolen, I have nothing further to say than this: you hold your fortune in your own hands -- a fortune such as rarely happens to a girl in your circumstances -- a fortune in fact which almost takes the question out of the range of mere personal feeling, and makes your acceptance of it a duty. If Providence offers you power and position -- especially when unclogged by any conditions that are repugnant to you -- your course is one of responsibility, into which caprice must not enter. A man does not like to have his attachment trifled with: he may not be at once repelled -- these things are matters of individual disposition. But the trifling may be carried too far. And I must point out to you that in case Mr. Grandcourt were repelled without your having refused him -- without your having intended ultimately to refuse him, your situation would be a humiliating and painful one. I, for my part, should regard you with severe disapprobation, as the victim of nothing else than your own coquetry and folly
I mean this in kindness, my dear
I am aware of that, uncle
I am not foolish. I know that I must be married some time -- before it is too late. And I don't see how I could do better than marry Mr. Grandcourt. I mean to accept him, if possible
My dear Gwendolen
I trust that you will find in marriage a new fountain of duty and affection. Marriage is the only true and satisfactory sphere of a woman, and if your marriage with Mr. Grandcourt should be happily decided upon, you will have, probably, an increasing power, both of rank and wealth, which may be used for the benefit of others. These considerations are something higher than romance! You are fitted by natural gifts for a position which, considering your birth and early prospects, could hardly be looked forward to as in the ordinary course of things; and I trust that, you will grace it, not only by those personal gifts, but by a good and consistent life
I hope mamma will be the happier
Did you suppose I should come wandering about here by myself? Why should I not bring all four if I liked
Oh, certainly
I will take, nay, I will lay odds that the marriage will never happen
You don't feel inclined to go a thousand miles away
Not exactly so far
It was a sad omission not to have written again before this. Can't you write how -- before we set out this morning
It is not so pressing. To-morrow will do. You see they leave town to-day. I must write to Dover. They will be there till Monday
Shall I write for you, dear -- if it teases you
Oh no, let it be; I will write to-morrow
Dear, old, beautiful mamma
Old, child, truly
Please don't, mamma! I meant old for darling. You are hardly twenty-five years older than I am. When you talk in that way my life shrivels up before me
One can have a great deal of happiness in twenty-five years, my dear
I must lose no time in beginning
The sooner I get my palaces and coaches the better
And a good husband who adores you, Gwen
Do you know how long it is since I first saw you in this dress
The archery meeting was on the 25th, and this is the 13th
I am not good at calculating, but I will venture to say that it must be nearly three weeks
That is a great loss of time
That your knowing me has caused you? Pray don't be uncomplimentary; I don't like it
It is because of the gain that I feel the loss
He is really very ingenious. He never speaks stupidly
The gain of knowing you makes me feel the time I lose in uncertainty. Do _you_ like uncertainty
I think I do, rather
There is more in it
Do you mean more torment for me
No, that would make me sorry
Mr. Grandcourt is not equal as a man to his uncle, Sir Hugo Mallinger -- too languid. To be sure, Mr. Grandcourt is a much younger man, but I shouldn't wonder if Sir Hugo were to outlive him, notwithstanding the difference of years. It is ill calculating on successions
It is indeed
It is come in time
We shall alight on him by-and-by
he can't be gone far
Can he too be starting away from a decision
Starting away
You'll be kind enough to go to the devil, will you
As you like it
How far are we from Green Arbor now
Oh, not more than half a mile, taking along the avenue we're going to cross up there: but I shall take round a Couple of miles, by the High Cross
Miss Harleth
Yes
Have you accepted Mr. Grandcourt
No
I have promised to tell you something. And you will promise to keep my secret. However you may decide you will not tell Mr. Grandcourt, or any one else, that you have seen me
I promise
My name is Lydia Glasher. Mr. Grandcourt ought not to marry any one but me. I left my husband and child for him nine years ago. Those two children are his, and we have two others -- girls -- who are older. My husband is dead now, and Mr. Grandcourt ought to marry me. He ought to make that boy his heir
I will not interfere with your wishes
You are very attractive, Miss Harleth. But when he first knew me, I too was young. Since then my life has been broken up and embittered. It is not fair that he should be happy and I miserable, and my boy thrust out of sight for another
I am a woman's life
Have you anything more to say to me
Nothing. You know what I wished you to know. You can inquire about me if you like. My husband was Colonel Glasher
Then I will go
Oh, I have been rather silly. I lingered behind to look at the Whispering Stones, and the rest hurried on after something, so I lost sight of them. I thought it best to come home by the short way -- the avenue that the warden had old me of. I'm not sorry after all. I had had enough walking
Your party did not meet Mr. Grandcourt, I presume
No
And we didn't see any carvings on the trees, either. Where can he be? I should think he has fallen into the pool or had an apoplectic fit
If you have no objection, mamma, I will order the carriage
I am tired. And every one will be going soon
Ah, there you are
We thought at first you had alighted on Grandcourt and he had taken you home. Lush said so. But after that we met Grandcourt. However, we didn't suppose you could be in any danger. The warden said he had told you a near way back
You are going
Yes, we are going
May I call at Offendene to-morrow
Oh yes, if you like
I got in, mamma, because I wished to be on this side
I intend to join the Langens at Dover, mamma. I shall pack up immediately on getting home, and set off by the early train. I shall be at Dover almost as soon as they are; we can let them know by telegraph
Good heavens, child! what can be your reason for saying so
My reason for saying it, mamma, is that I mean to do it
But why do you mean to do it
I wish to go away
Is it because you are offended with Mr. Grandcourt's odd behavior in walking off to-day
It is useless to enter into such questions. I am not going in any case to marry Mr. Grandcourt. Don't interest yourself further about it
What can I say to your uncle, Gwendolen? Consider the position you place me in. You led him to believe only last night that you had made up your mind in favor of Mr. Grandcourt
I am very sorry to cause you annoyance, mamma, dear, but I can't help it
Whatever you or my uncle may think or do, I shall not alter my resolve, and I shall not tell my reason. I don't care what comes of it. I don't care if I never marry any one. There is nothing worth caring for. I believe all men are bad, and I hate them
But need you set off in this way, Gwendolen
Now mamma, don't interfere with me. If you have ever had any trouble in your own life, remember it and don't interfere with me. If I am to be miserable, let it be by my own choice
_Festina lente_ -- celerity should be contempered with cunctation
Did you play much at Baden, Grandcourt
No; I looked on and betted a little with some Russians there
Had you luck
What did I win, Lush
You brought away about two hundred
You are not here for the sake of the play, then
No; I don't care about play now. It's a confounded strain
The fact is, somebody should invent a mill to do amusements for you, my dear fellow
as the Tartars get their praying done. But I agree with you; I never cared for play. It's monotonous -- knits the brain up into meshes. And it knocks me up to watch it now. I suppose one gets poisoned with the bad air. I never stay here more than ten minutes. But where's your gambling beauty, Deronda? Have you seen her lately
She's gone
An uncommonly fine girl, a perfect Diana
Really worth a little straining to look at her. I saw her winning, and she took it as coolly as if she had known it all beforehand. The same day Deronda happened to see her losing like wildfire, and she bore it with immense pluck. I suppose she was cleaned out, or was wise enough to stop in time. How do you know she's gone
Oh, by the Visitor-list
Vandernoodt told me her name was Harleth, and she was with the Baron and Baroness von Langen. I saw by the list that Miss Harleth was no longer there
Do you know those people -- the Langens
I have talked with them a little since Miss Harleth went away. I knew nothing of them before
Where is she gone -- do you know
She is gone home
But it is possible you know her. Her home is not far from Diplow: Offendene, near Winchester
What did you say, sir
Yes, I know her
What of her, eh
She must be a new-comer at Offendene. Old Blenny lived there after the dowager died
A little too much of her
Why? how
He has been on the brink of marrying her
But I hope it's off now. She's a niece of the clergyman -- Gascoigne -- at Pennicote. Her mother is a widow with a brood of daughters. This girl will have nothing, and is as dangerous as gunpowder. It would be a foolish marriage. But she has taken a freak against him, for she ran off here without notice, when he had agreed to call the next day. The fact is, he's here after her; but he was in no great hurry, and between his caprice and hers they are likely enough not to get together again. But of course he has lost his chance with the heiress
What a beastly den this is!-- a worse hole than Baden. I shall go back to the hotel
Rather a pretty story. That girl has something in her. She must be worth running after -- has _de l'imprevu_. I think her appearance on the scene has bettered my chance of getting Diplow, whether the marriage comes off or not
I should hope a marriage like that would not come off
What! are you a little touched with the sublime lash
Are you inclined to run after her
On the contrary
I should rather be inclined to run away from her
Why, you would easily cut out Grandcourt. A girl with her spirit would think you the finer match of the two
I suppose pedigree and land belong to a fine match
The best horse will win in spite of pedigree, my boy. You remember Napoleon's _mot -- Je suis un ancetre_
I am not sure that I want to be an ancestor
It doesn't seem to me the rarest sort of origination
You won't run after the pretty gambler, then
Decidedly not
Mr. Fraser, how was it that the popes and cardinals always had so many nephews
Their own children were called nephews
Why
It was just for the propriety of the thing; because, as you know very well, priests don't marry, and the children were illegitimate
You lost your father and mother when you were quite a little one; that is why I take care of you
Daniel, do you see that you are sitting on the bent pages of your book
Come here, Dan
What do you say to being a great singer? Should you like to be adored by the world and take the house by storm; like Mario and Tamberlik
No; I should hate it
Well, well, well
He features the mother, eh
Nunc
Ah, Dan
Come and sit down here
What is it, my boy? Have you heard anything that has put you out of spirits lately
All changes are painful when people have been happy, you know
You can't be educated exactly as I wish you to be without our parting. And I think you will find a great deal to like at school
Am I to go to school
Yes, I mean you to go to Eton. I wish you to have the education of an English gentleman; and for that it is necessary that you should go to a public school in preparation for the university: Cambridge I mean you to go to; it was my own university
What do you say, sirrah
I should like to be a gentleman
and go to school, if that is what a gentleman's son must do
And so you won't mind about leaving your old Nunc
Yes, I shall
But shan't I come home and be with you in the holidays
Oh yes, generally
But now I mean you to go at once to a new tutor, to break the change for you before you go to Eton
Do you think I shall know much less than the other boys, Mr. Fraser
There are dunces to be found everywhere
You'll not be the biggest; but you've not, the makings of a Porson in you, or a Leibnitz either
I don't want to be a Porson or a Leibnitz
I would rather be a greater leader, like Pericles or Washington
Ay, ay; you've a notion they did with little parsing, and less algebra
What do you intend me to be, sir
Whatever your inclination leads you to, my boy. I thought it right to give you the option of the army, but you shut the door on that, and I was glad. I don't expect you to choose just yet -- by-and-by, when you have looked about you a little more and tried your mettle among older men. The university has a good wide opening into the forum. There are prizes to be won, and a bit of good fortune often gives the turn to a man's taste. From what I see and hear, I should think you can take up anything you like. You are in the deeper water with your classics than I ever got into, and if you are rather sick of that swimming, Cambridge is the place where you can go into mathematics with a will, and disport yourself on the dry sand as much as you like. I floundered along like a carp
I suppose money will make some difference, sir
I shall have to keep myself by-and-by
Not exactly. I recommend you not to be extravagant -- yes, yes, I know -- you are not inclined to that;-- but you need not take up anything against the grain. You will have a bachelor's income -- enough for you to look about with. Perhaps I had better tell you that you may consider yourself secure of seven hundred a year. You might make yourself a barrister -- be a writer -- take up politics. I confess that is what would please me best. I should like to have you at my elbow and pulling with me
I am glad you have done some good reading outside your classics, and have got a grip of French and German. The truth is, unless a man can get the prestige and income of a Don and write donnish books, it's hardly worth while for him to make a Greek and Latin machine of himself and be able to spin you out pages of the Greek dramatists at any verse you'll give him as a cue. That's all very fine, but in practical life nobody does give you the cue for pages of Greek. In fact, it's a nicety of conversation which I would have you attend to -- much quotation of any sort, even in English is bad. It tends to choke ordinary remark. One couldn't carry on life comfortably without a little blindness to the fact that everything had been said better than we can put it ourselves. But talking of Dons, I have seen Dons make a capital figure in society; and occasionally he can shoot you down a cart-load of learning in the right place, which will tell in politics. Such men are wanted; and if you have any turn for being a Don, I say nothing against it
I think there's not much chance of that. Quicksett and Puller are both stronger than I am. I hope you will not be much disappointed if I don't come out with high honors
No, no. I should like you to do yourself credit, but for God's sake don't come out as a superior expensive kind of idiot, like young Brecon, who got a Double First, and has been learning to knit braces ever since. What I wish you to get is a passport in life. I don't go against our university system: we want a little disinterested culture to make head against cotton and capital, especially in the House. My Greek has all evaporated; if I had to construe a verse on a sudden, I should get an apoplectic fit. But it formed my taste. I dare say my English is the better for it
Deronda would have been first-rate if he had had more ambition
Old fellow, while you are hoisting me you are risking yourself. With your mathematical cram one may be like Moses or Mahomet or somebody of that sort who had to cram, and forgot in one day what it had taken him forty to learn
If you had got the scholarship, Sir Hugo would have thought that you asked to leave us with a better grace. You have spoiled your luck for my sake, and I can do nothing to amend it
Yes, you can; you are to be a first-rate fellow. I call that a first-rate investment of my luck
Oh, confound it! You save an ugly mongrel from drowning, and expect him to cut a fine figure. The poets have made tragedies enough about signing one's self over to wickedness for the sake of getting something plummy; I shall write a tragedy of a fellow who signed himself over to be good, and was uncomfortable ever after
So you don't want to be an Englishman to the backbone after all
I want to be an Englishman, but I want to understand other points of view. And I want to get rid of a merely English attitude in studies
I see; you don't want to be turned out in the same mould as every other youngster. And I have nothing to say against your doffing some of our national prejudices. I feel the better myself for having spent a good deal of my time abroad. But, for God's sake, keep an English cut, and don't become indifferent to bad tobacco! And, my dear boy, it is good to be unselfish and generous; but don't carry that too far. It will not do to give yourself to be melted down for the benefit of the tallow-trade; you must know where to find yourself. However, I shall put no vote on your going. Wait until I can get off Committee, and I'll run over with you
This is truth the poet sings, That a sorrow's crown of sorrow is remembering happier things
trailing clouds of glory
dreadful
Otello
I should not have forgotten the look of misery if she had been ugly and vulgar
Here am I
Don't be afraid. You are unhappy. Pray, trust me. Tell me what I can do to help you
I saw you before
nella miseria
It was you, singing
Nessun maggior dolore
Ah, yes
I am often singing them. But I fear you will injure yourself staying here. Pray let me take you in my boat to some place of safety. And that wet cloak -- let me take it
You look good. Perhaps it is God's command
Do trust me. Let me help you. I will die before I will let any harm come to you
Great God
perhaps my mother was like this one
I have nowhere to go -- nobody belonging to me in all this land
I will take you to a lady who has daughters
Do you belong to the theatre
No; I have nothing to do with the theatre
I will put you in perfect safety at once; with a lady, a good woman; I am sure she will be kind. Let us lose no time: you will make yourself ill. Life may still become sweet to you. There are good people -- there are good women who will take care of you
You had a covering for your head
My hat
It is quite hidden in the bush
I will find it
The boat is fixed
We must carry the cloak away, to prevent any one who may have noticed you from thinking you have been drowned
I wish I had any other garment than my coat to offer you. But shall you mind throwing it over your shoulders while we are on the water? It is quite an ordinary thing to do, when people return late and are not enough provided with wraps
I have some biscuits -- should you like them
No; I cannot eat. I had still some money left to buy bread
I like to listen to the oar
So do I
If you had not come, I should have been dead now
I cannot bear you to speak of that. I hope you will never be sorry that I came
I cannot see how I shall be glad to live. The _maggior dolore_ and the _miseria_ have lasted longer than the _tempo felice_
_Dolore -- miseria_ -- I think those words are alive
I thought it was not wicked. Death and life are one before the Eternal. I know our fathers slew their children and then slew themselves, to keep their souls pure. I meant it so. But now I am commanded to live. I cannot see how I shall live
You will find friends. I will find them for you
Not my mother and brother. I cannot find them
You are English? You must be -- speaking English so perfectly
You want to know if I am English
I want to know nothing except what you like to tell me
Perhaps it is not good for you to talk
Yes, I will tell you. I am English-born. But I am a Jewess
Do you despise me for it
Why should I
I am not so foolish
I know many Jews are bad
So are many Christians. But I should not think it fair for you to despise me because of that
My mother and brother were good. But I shall never find them. I am come a long way -- from abroad. I ran away; but I cannot tell you -- I cannot speak of it. I thought I might find my mother again -- God would guide me. But then I despaired. This morning when the light came, I felt as if one word kept sounding within me -- Never! never! But now -- I begin -- to think
I am commanded to live -- perhaps we are going to her
Ivanhoe
They are too good to have any fear about taking her in
the great world
I think that is the finest story in the world
Of course, Mab
it is the last you have heard. Everything that pleases you is the best in its turn
It is hardly to be called a story
It is a bit of history brought near us with a strong telescope. We can see the soldiers' faces: no, it is more than that -- we can hear everything -- we can almost hear their hearts beat
I don't care what you call it
Call it a chapter in Revelations. It makes me want to do something good, something grand. It makes me so sorry for everybody. It makes me like Schiller -- I want to take the world in my arms and kiss it. I must kiss you instead, little mother
Whenever you are in that mood, Mab, down goes your work
It would be doing something good to finish your cushion without soiling it
Oh -- oh -- oh
I wish I had three wounded conscripts to take care of
You would spill their beef-tea while you were talking
Poor Mab! don't be hard on her
Give me the embroidery now, child. You go on with your enthusiasm, and I will go on with the pink and white poppy
Well, ma, I think you are more caustic than Amy
Oh -- oh -- oh
I wish something wonderful would happen. I feel like the deluge. The waters of the great deep are broken up, and the windows of heaven are opened. I must sit down and play the scales
Dear me
it is after ten, and Phoebe is gone to bed
Mr. Deronda
There now! something _is_ going to happen
I know I am trusting to your goodness in a most extraordinary way
but you can imagine how helpless I feel with a young creature like this on my hands. I could not go with her among strangers, and in her nervous state I should dread taking her into a house full of servants. I have trusted to your mercy. I hope you will not think my act unwarrantable
On the contrary. You have honored me by trusting me. I see your difficulty. Pray bring her in. I will go and prepare the girls
Here is somebody to take care of instead of your wounded conscripts, Mab: a poor girl who was going to drown herself in despair. Mr. Deronda found her only just in time to save her. He brought her along in his boat, and did not know what else it would be safe to do with her, so he has trusted us and brought her here. It seems she is a Jewess, but quite refined, he says -- knowing Italian and music
I have brought you to some of the kindest people in the world: there are daughters like you. It is a happy home. Will you let me take you to them
You must be weary, poor child
We will take care of you -- we will comfort you -- we will love you
I am a stranger. I am a Jewess. You might have thought I was wicked
No, we are sure you are good
We think no evil of you, poor child. You shall be safe with us
Come now and sit down. You must have some food, and then you must go to rest
You will have no more fears with these friends? You will rest to-night
Oh, I should not fear. I should rest. I think these are the ministering angels
My name is Mirah Lapidoth. I am come a long way, all the way from Prague by myself. I made my escape. I ran away from dreadful things. I came to find my mother and brother in London. I had been taken from my mother when I was little, but I thought I could find her again. I had trouble -- the houses were all gone -- I could not find her. It has been a long while, and I had not much money. That is why I am in distress
Our mother will be good to you
See what a nice little mother she is
Do sit down now
Will you allow me to come again and inquire -- perhaps at five to-morrow
Yes, pray; we shall have had time to make acquaintance then
Good-bye
The God of our fathers bless you and deliver you from all evil as you have delivered me. I did not believe there was any man so good. None before have thought me worthy of the best. You found me poor and miserable, yet you have given me the best
I pity the man who can travel from Dan to Beersheba, and say, 'Tis all barren': and so it is: and so is all the world to him who will not cultivate the fruits it offers
It will hardly be denied that even in this frail and corrupted world, we sometimes meet persons who, in their very mien and aspect, as well as in the whole habit of life, manifest such a signature and stamp of virtue, as to make our judgment of them a matter of intuition rather than the result of continued examination
Oh, if you please, mamma
look at the slippers, how beautiful they fit! I declare she is like the Queen Budoor --' two delicate feet, the work of the protecting and all-recompensing Creator, support her; and I wonder how they can sustain what is above them
One could hardly imagine this creature having an evil thought. But wise people would tell me to be cautious
I fear the feet have had to sustain their burden a little too often lately. But to-day she will rest and be my companion
And she will tell you so many things and I shall not hear them
I remember my mother's face better than anything; yet I was not seven when I was taken away, and I am nineteen now
I can understand that
There are some earliest things that last the longest
Oh, yes, it was the earliest. I think my life began with waking up and loving my mother's face: it was so near to me, and her arms were round me, and she sang to me. One hymn she sang so often, so often: and then she taught me to sing it with her: it was the first I ever sang. They were always Hebrew hymns she sang; and because I never knew the meaning of the words they seemed full of nothing but our love and happiness. When I lay in my little bed and it was all white above me, she used to bend over me, between me and the white, and sing in a sweet, low voice. I can dream myself back into that time when I am awake, and it often comes back to me in my sleep -- my hand is very little, I put it up to her face and she kisses it. Sometimes in my dreams I begin to tremble and think that we are both dead; but then I wake up and my hand lies like this, and for a moment I hardly know myself. But if I could see my mother again I should know her
You must expect some change after twelve years
See my grey hair: ten years ago it was bright brown. The days and months pace over us like restless little birds, and leave the marks of their feet backward and forward; especially when they are like birds with heavy hearts-then they tread heavily
Ah, I am sure her heart has been heavy for want of me. But to feel her joy if we could meet again, and I could make her know I love her and give her deep comfort after all her mourning! If that could be, I should mind nothing; I should be glad that I have lived through my trouble. I did despair. The world seemed miserable and wicked; none helped me so that I could bear their looks and words; I felt that my mother was dead, and death was the only way to her. But then in the last moment -- yesterday, when I longed for the water to close over me -- and I thought that death was the best image of mercy -- then goodness came to me living, and I felt trust in the living. And -- it is strange -- but I began to hope that she was living too. And now I with you -- here -- this morning, peace and hope have come into me like a flood. I want nothing; I can wait; because I hope and believe and am grateful -- oh, so grateful! You have not thought evil of me -- you have not despised me
Many others would have felt as we do, my dear
But I did not meet them -- they did not come to me
How was it that you were taken from your mother
Ah, I am a long while coming to that. It is dreadful to speak of, yet I must tell you -- I must tell you everything. My father -- it was he that took me away. I thought we were only going on a little journey; and I was pleased. There was a box with all my little things in. But we went on board a ship, and got farther and farther away from the land. Then I was ill; and I thought it would never end -- it was the first misery, and it seemed endless. But at last we landed. I knew nothing then, and believed what my father said. He comforted me, and told me I should go back to my mother. But it was America we had reached, and it was long years before we came back to Europe. At first I often asked my father when we were going back; and I tried to learn writing fast, because I wanted to write to my mother; but one day when he found me trying to write a letter, he took me on his knee and told me that my mother and brother were dead; that was why we did not go back. I remember my brother a little; he carried me once; but he was not always at home. I believed my father when he said that they were dead. I saw them under the earth when he said they were there, with their eyes forever closed. I never thought of its not being true; and I used to cry every night in my bed for a long while. Then when she came so often to me, in my sleep, I thought she must be living about me though I could not always see her, and that comforted me. I was never afraid in the dark, because of that; and very often in the day I used to shut my eyes and bury my face and try to see her and to hear her singing. I came to do that at last without shutting my eyes
Still your father was not unkind to you, I hope
No; he petted me, and took pains to teach me. He was an actor; and I found out, after, that the 'Coburg' I used to hear of his going to at home was a theatre. But he had more to do with the theatre than acting. He had not always been an actor; he had been a teacher, and knew many languages. His acting was not very good; I think, but he managed the stage, and wrote and translated plays. An Italian lady, a singer, lived with us a long time. They both taught me, and I had a master besides, who made me learn by heart and recite. I worked quite hard, though I was so little; and I was not nine when I first went on the stage. I could easily learn things, and I was not afraid. But then and ever since I hated our way of life. My father had money, and we had finery about us in a disorderly way; always there were men and women coming and going; there was loud laughing and disputing, strutting, snapping of fingers, jeering, faces I did not like to look at -- though many petted and caressed me. But then I remembered my mother. Even at first when I understood nothing, I shrank away from all those things outside me into companionship with thoughts that were not like them; and I gathered thoughts very fast, because I read many things -- plays and poetry, Shakespeare and Schiller, and learned evil and good. My father began to believe that I might be a great singer: my voice was considered wonderful for a child; and he had the best teaching for me. But it was painful that he boasted of me, and set me to sing for show at any minute, as if I had been a musical box. Once when I was nine years old, I played the part of a little girl who had been forsaken and did not know it, and sat singing to herself while she played with flowers. I did it without any trouble; but the clapping and all the sounds of the theatre were hateful to me; and I never liked the praise I had, because it all seemed very hard and unloving: I missed the love and trust I had been born into. I made a life in my own thoughts quite different from everything about me: I chose what seemed to me beautiful out of the plays and everything, and made my world out of it; and it was like a sharp knife always grazing me that we had two sorts of life which jarred so with each other -- women looking good and gentle on the stage, and saying good things as if they felt them, and directly after I saw them with coarse, ugly manners. My father sometimes noticed my shrinking ways; and Signora said one day, when I had been rehearsing, 'She will never be an artist: she has no notion of being anybody but herself. That does very well now, but by- and-by you will see -- she will have no more face and action than a singing- bird.' My father was angry, and they quarreled. I sat alone and cried, because what she had said was like a long unhappy future unrolled before me. I did not want to be an artist; but this was what my father expected of me. After a while Signora left us, and a governess used to come and give me lessons in different things, because my father began to be afraid of my singing too much; but I still acted from time to time. Rebellious feelings grew stronger in me, and I wished to get away from this life; but I could not tell where to go, and I dreaded the world. Besides, I felt it would be wrong to leave my father: I dreaded doing wrong, for I thought I might get wicked and hateful to myself, in the same way that many others seemed hateful to me. For so long, so long I had never felt my outside world happy; and if I got wicked I should lose my world of happy thoughts where my mother lived with me. That was my childish notion all through those years. Oh how long they were
Had you no teaching about what was your duty
religion
No -- only that I ought to do what my father wished. He did not follow our religion at New York, and I think he wanted me not to know much about it. But because my mother used to take me to the synagogue, and I remembered sitting on her knee and looking through the railing and hearing the chanting and singing, I longed to go. One day when I was quite small I slipped out and tried to find the synagogue, but I lost myself a long while till a peddler questioned me and took me home. My father, missing me, had been much in fear, and was very angry. I too had been so frightened at losing myself that it was long before I thought of venturing out again. But after Signora left us we went to rooms where our landlady was a Jewess and observed her religion. I asked her to take me with her to the synagogue; and I read in her prayer-books and Bible, and when I had money enough I asked her to buy me books of my own, for these books seemed a closer companionship with my mother: I knew that she must have looked at the very words and said them. In that way I have come to know a little of our religion, and the history of our people, besides piecing together what I read in plays and other books about Jews and Jewesses; because I was sure my mother obeyed her religion. I had left off asking my father about her. It is very dreadful to say it, but I began to disbelieve him. I had found that he did not always tell the truth, and made promises without meaning to keep them; and that raised my suspicion that my mother and brother were still alive though he had told me they were dead. For in going over the past again as I got older and knew more, I felt sure that my mother had been deceived, and had expected to see us back again after a very little while; and my father taking me on his knee and telling me that my mother and brother were both dead seemed to me now but a bit of acting, to set my mind at rest. The cruelty of that falsehood sank into me, and I hated all untruth because of it. I wrote to my mother secretly: I knew the street, Colman Street, where we lived, and that it was not Blackfriars Bridge and the Coburg, and that our name was Cohen then, though my father called us Lapidoth, because, he said, it was a name of his forefathers in Poland. I sent my letter secretly; but no answer came, and I thought there was no hope for me. Our life in America did not last much longer. My father suddenly told me we were to pack up and go to Hamburg, and I was rather glad. I hoped we might get among a different sort of people, and I knew German quite well -- some German plays almost all by heart. My father spoke it better than he spoke English. I was thirteen then, and I seemed to myself quite old -- I knew so much, and yet so little. I think other children cannot feel as I did. I had often wished that I had been drowned when I was going away from my mother. But I set myself to obey and suffer: what else could I do? One day when we were on our voyage, a new thought came into my mind. I was not very ill that time, and I kept on deck a good deal. My father acted and sang and joked to amuse people on board, and I used often to hear remarks about him. One day, when I was looking at the sea and nobody took notice of me, I overheard a gentleman say, 'Oh, he is one of those clever Jews -- a rascal, I shouldn't wonder. There's no race like them for cunning in the men and beauty in the women. I wonder what market he means that daughter for.' When I heard this it darted into my mind that the unhappiness in my life came from my being a Jewess, and that always to the end the world would think slightly of me and that I must bear it, for I should be judged by that name; and it comforted me to believe that my suffering was part of the affliction of my people, my part in the long song of mourning that has been going on through ages and ages. For if many of our race were wicked and made merry in their wickedness -- what was that but part of the affliction borne by the just among them, who were despised for the sins of their brethren?-- But you have not rejected me
And we will try to save you from being judged unjustly by others, my poor child
Go on, go on: tell me all
After that we lived in different towns -- Hamburg and Vienna, the longest. I began to study singing again: and my father always got money about the theatres. I think he brought a good deal of money from America, I never knew why we left. For some time he was in great spirits about my singing, and he made me rehearse parts and act continually. He looked forward to my coming out in the opera. But by-and-by it seemed that my voice would never be strong enough -- it did not fulfill its promise. My master at Vienna said, 'Don't strain it further: it will never do for the public:-- it is gold, but a thread of gold dust.' My father was bitterly disappointed: we were not so well off at that time. I think I have not quite told you what I felt about my father. I knew he was fond of me and meant to indulge me, and that made me afraid of hurting him; but he always mistook what would please me and give me happiness. It was his nature to take everything lightly; and I soon left off asking him any questions about things that I cared for much, because he always turned them off with a joke. He would even ridicule our own people; and once when he had been imitating their movements and their tones in praying, only to make others laugh, I could not restrain myself -- for I always had an anger in my heart about my mother -- and when we were alone, I said, 'Father, you ought not to mimic our own people before Christians who mock them: would it not be bad if I mimicked you, that they might mock you?' But he only shrugged his shoulders and laughed and pinched my chin, and said, 'You couldn't do it, my dear
But soon there came the dreadful time. We had been at Pesth and we came back to Vienna. In spite of what my master Leo had said, my father got me an engagement, not at the opera, but to take singing parts at a suburb theatre in Vienna. He had nothing to do with the theatre then; I did not understand what he did, but I think he was continually at a gambling house, though he was careful always about taking me to the theatre. I was very miserable. The plays I acted in were detestable to me. Men came about us and wanted to talk to me: women and men seemed to look at me with a sneering smile; it was no better than a fiery furnace. Perhaps I make it worse than it was -- you don't know that life: but the glare and the faces, and my having to go on and act and sing what I hated, and then see people who came to stare at me behind the scenes -- it was all so much worse than when I was a little girl. I went through with it; I did it; I had set my mind to obey my father and work, for I saw nothing better that I could do. But I felt that my voice was getting weaker, and I knew that my acting was not good except when it was not really acting, but the part was one that I could be myself in, and some feeling within me carried me along. That was seldom. "Then, in the midst of all this, the news came to me one morning that my father had been taken to prison, and he had sent for me. He did not tell me the reason why he was there, but he ordered me to go to an address he gave me, to see a Count who would be able to get him released. The address was to some public rooms where I was to ask for the Count, and beg him to come to my father. I found him, and recognized him as a gentleman whom I had seen the other night for the first time behind the scenes. That agitated me, for I remembered his way of looking at me and kissing my hand -- I thought it was in mockery. But I delivered my errand, and he promised to go immediately to my father, who came home again that very evening, bringing the Count with him. I now began to feel a horrible dread of this man, for he worried me with his attentions, his eyes were always on me: I felt sure that whatever else there might be in his mind toward me, below it all there was scorn for the Jewess and the actress. And when he came to me the next day in the theatre and would put my shawl around me, a terror took hold of me; I saw that my father wanted me to look pleased. The Count was neither very young nor very old; his hair and eyes were pale; he was tall and walked heavily, and his face was heavy and grave except when he looked at me. He smiled at me, and his smile went through me with horror: I could not tell why he was so much worse to me than other men. Some feelings are like our hearing: they come as sounds do, before we know their reason. My father talked to me about him when we were alone, and praised him -- said what a good friend he had been. I said nothing, because I supposed he had got my father out of prison. When the Count came again, my father left the room. He asked me if I liked being on the stage. I said No, I only acted in obedience to my father. He always spoke French, and called me 'petite ange' and such things, which I felt insulting. I knew he meant to make love to me, and I had it firmly in my mind that a nobleman and one who was not a Jew could have no love for me that was not half contempt. But then he told me that I need not act any longer; he wished me to visit him at his beautiful place, where I might be queen of everything. It was difficult to me to speak, I felt so shaken with anger: I could only say, 'I would rather stay on the stage forever,' and I left him there. Hurrying out of the room I saw my father sauntering in the passage. My heart was crushed. I went past him and locked myself up. It had sunk into me that my father was in a conspiracy with that man against me. But the next day he persuaded me to come out: he said that I had mistaken everything, and he would explain: if I did not come out and act and fulfill my engagement, we should be ruined and he must starve. So I went on acting, and for a week or more the Count never came near me. My father changed our lodgings, and kept at home except when he went to the theatre with me. He began one day to speak discouragingly of my acting, and say, I could never go on singing in public -- I should lose my voice -- I ought to think of my future, and not put my nonsensical feelings between me and my fortune. He said, 'What will you do? You will be brought down to sing and beg at people's doors. You have had a splendid offer and ought to accept it.' I could not speak: a horror took possession of me when I thought of my mother and of him. I felt for the first time that I should not do wrong to leave him. But the next day he told me that he had put an end to my engagement at the theatre, and that we were to go to Prague. I was getting suspicious of everything, and my will was hardening to act against him. It took us two days to pack and get ready; and I had it in my mind that I might be obliged to run away from my father, and then I would come to London and try if it were possible to find my mother. I had a little money, and I sold some things to get more. I packed a few clothes in a little bag that I could carry with me, and I kept my mind on the watch. My father's silence -- his letting drop that subject of the Count's offer -- made me feel sure that there was a plan against me. I felt as if it had been a plan to take me to a madhouse. I once saw a picture of a madhouse, that I could never forget; it seemed to me very much like some of the life I had seen -- the people strutting, quarreling, leering -- the faces with cunning and malice in them. It was my will to keep myself from wickedness; and I prayed for help. I had seen what despised women were: and my heart turned against my father, for I saw always behind him that man who made me shudder. You will think I had not enough reason for my suspicions, and perhaps I had not, outside my own feeling; but it seemed to me that my mind had been lit up, and all that might be stood out clear and sharp. If I slept, it was only to see the same sort of things, and I could hardly sleep at all. Through our journey I was everywhere on the watch. I don't know why, but it came before me like a real event, that my father would suddenly leave me and I should find myself with the Count where I could not get away from him. I thought God was warning me: my mother's voice was in my soul. It was dark when we reached Prague, and though the strange bunches of lamps were lit it was difficult to distinguish faces as we drove along the street. My father chose to sit outside -- he was always smoking now -- and I watched everything in spite of the darkness. I do believe I could see better then than I ever did before: the strange clearness within seemed to have got outside me. It was not my habit to notice faces and figures much in the street; but this night I saw every one; and when we passed before a great hotel I caught sight only of a back that was passing in -- the light of the great bunch of lamps a good way off fell on it. I knew it -- before the face was turned, as it fell into shadow, I knew who it was. Help came to me. I feel sure help came. I did not sleep that night. I put on my plainest things -- the cloak and hat I have worn ever since; and I sat watching for the light and the sound of the doors being unbarred. Some one rose early -- at four o'clock, to go to the railway. That gave me courage. I slipped out, with my little bag under my cloak, and none noticed me. I had been a long while attending to the railway guide that I might learn the way to England; and before the sun had risen I was in the train for Dresden. Then I cried for joy. I did not know whether my money would last out, but I trusted. I could sell the things in my bag, and the little rings in my ears, and I could live on bread only. My only terror was lest my father should follow me. But I never paused. I came on, and on, and on, only eating bread now and then. When I got to Brussels I saw that I should not have enough money, and I sold all that I could sell; but here a strange thing happened. Putting my hand into the pocket of my cloak, I found a half-napoleon. Wondering and wondering how it came there, I remembered that on the way from Cologne there was a young workman sitting against me. I was frightened at every one, and did not like to be spoken to. At first he tried to talk, but when he saw that I did not like it, he left off. It was a long journey; I ate nothing but a bit of bread, and he once offered me some of the food he brought in, but I refused it. I do believe it was he who put that bit of gold in my pocket. Without it I could hardly have got to Dover, and I did walk a good deal of the way from Dover to London. I knew I should look like a miserable beggar-girl. I wanted not to look very miserable, because if I found my mother it would grieve her to see me so. But oh, how vain my hope was that she would be there to see me come! As soon as I set foot in London, I began to ask for Lambeth and Blackfriars Bridge, but they were a long way off, and I went wrong. At last I got to Blackfriars Bridge and asked for Colman Street. People shook their heads. None knew it. I saw it in my mind -- our doorsteps, and the white tiles hung in the windows, and the large brick building opposite with wide doors. But there was nothing like it. At last when I asked a tradesman where the Coburg Theatre and Colman Street were, he said, 'Oh, my little woman, that's all done away with. The old streets have been pulled down; everything is new.' I turned away and felt as if death had laid a hand on me. He said: 'Stop, stop! young woman; what is it you're wanting with Colman Street, eh?' meaning well, perhaps. But his tone was what I could not bear; and how could I tell him what I wanted? I felt blinded and bewildered with a sudden shock. I suddenly felt that I was very weak and weary, and yet where could I go? for I looked so poor and dusty, and had nothing with me -- I looked like a street-beggar. And I was afraid of all places where I could enter. I lost my trust. I thought I was forsaken. It seemed that I had been in a fever of hope -- delirious -- all the way from Prague: I thought that I was helped, and I did nothing but strain my mind forward and think of finding my mother; and now -- there I stood in a strange world. All who saw me would think ill of me, and I must herd with beggars. I stood on the bridge and looked along the river. People were going on to a steamboat. Many of them seemed poor, and I felt as if it would be a refuge to get away from the streets; perhaps the boat would take me where I could soon get into a solitude. I had still some pence left, and I bought a loaf when I went on the boat. I wanted to have a little time and strength to think of life and death. How could I live? And now again it seemed that if ever I were to find my mother again, death was the way to her. I ate, that I might have strength to think. The boat set me down at a place along the river -- I don't know where -- and it was late in the evening. I found some large trees apart from the road, and I sat down under them that I might rest through the night. Sleep must have soon come to me, and when I awoke it was morning. The birds were singing, and the dew was white about me, I felt chill and oh, so lonely! I got up and walked and followed the river a long way and then turned back again. There was no reason why I should go anywhere. The world about me seemed like a vision that was hurrying by while I stood still with my pain. My thoughts were stronger than I was; they rushed in and forced me to see all my life from the beginning; ever since I was carried away from my mother I had felt myself a lost child taken up and used by strangers, who did not care what my life was to me, but only what I could do for them. It seemed all a weary wandering and heart-loneliness -- as if I had been forced to go to merrymakings without the expectation of joy. And now it was worse. I was lost again, and I dreaded lest any stranger should notice me and speak to me. I had a terror of the world. None knew me; all would mistake me. I had seen so many in my life who made themselves glad with scorning, and laughed at another's shame. What could I do? This life seemed to be closing in upon me with a wall of fire -- everywhere there was scorching that made me shrink. The high sunlight made me shrink. And I began to think that my despair was the voice of God telling me to die. But it would take me long to die of hunger. Then I thought of my people, how they had been driven from land to land and been afflicted, and multitudes had died of misery in their wandering -- was I the first? And in the wars and troubles when Christians were cruelest, our fathers had sometimes slain their children and afterward themselves: it was to save them from being false apostates. That seemed to make it right for me to put an end to my life; for calamity had closed me in too, and I saw no pathway but to evil. But my mind got into war with itself, for there were contrary things in it. I knew that some had held it wrong to hasten their own death, though they were in the midst of flames; and while I had some strength left it was a longing to bear if I ought to bear -- else where was the good of all my life? It had not been happy since the first years: when the light came every morning I used to think, 'I will bear it.' But always before I had some hope; now it was gone. With these thoughts I wandered and wandered, inwardly crying to the Most High, from whom I should not flee in death more than in life -- though I had no strong faith that He cared for me. The strength seemed departing from my soul; deep below all my cries was the feeling that I was alone and forsaken. The more I thought the wearier I got, till it seemed I was not thinking at all, but only the sky and the river and the Eternal God were in my soul. And what was it whether I died or lived? If I lay down to die in the river, was it more than lying down to sleep?-- for there too I committed my soul -- I gave myself up. I could not bear memories any more; I could only feel what was present in me -- it was all one longing to cease from my weary life, which seemed only a pain outside the great peace that I might enter into. That was how it was. When the evening came and the sun was gone, it seemed as if that was all I had to wait for. And a new strength came into me to will what I would do. You know what I did. I was going to die. You know what happened -- did he not tell you? Faith came to me again; I was not forsaken. He told you how he found me
She's just a pearl; the mud has only washed her
What is your feeling about a search for this mother
Have you no fears? I have, I confess
Oh, I believe the mother's good
or _was_ good. She may be dead -- that's my fear. A good woman, you may depend: you may know it by the scoundrel the father is. Where did the child get her goodness from? Wheaten flour has to be accounted for
We should be very jealous of any one who took the task from us
She will stay under my roof; there is Hans's old room for her
Will she be content to wait
No trouble there. It is not her nature to run into planning and devising: only to submit. See how she submitted to that father! It was a wonder to herself how she found the will and contrivance to run away from him. About finding her mother, her only notion now is to trust; since you were sent to save her and we are good to her, she trusts that her mother will be found in the same unsought way. And when she is talking I catch her feeling like a child
Oh, yes; we will hurry nothing
Rely upon it, she shall be taken tender care of. If you like to give me your address abroad, I will write to let you know how we get on. It is not fair that we should have all the pleasure of her salvation to ourselves. And besides, I want to make believe that I am doing something for you as well as for Mirah
That is no make-believe. What should I have done without you last night? Everything would have gone wrong. I shall tell Hans that the best of having him for a friend is, knowing his mother
Kate burns a pastille before his portrait every day
And I carry his signature in a little black-silk bag round my neck to keep off the cramp. And Amy says the multiplication-table in his name. We must all do something extra in honor of him, now he has brought you to us
I suppose he is too great a person to want anything
He is perhaps very high in the world
He is very much above us in rank
He is related to grand people. I dare say he leans on some of the satin cushions we prick our fingers over
I am glad he is of high rank
Now, why are you glad of that
Because I have always disliked men of high rank before
Oh, Mr. Deronda is not so very high
He need not hinder us from thinking ill of the whole peerage and baronetage if we like
I will ask Daniel
Let there not be
Now go away, girls
Never mind, mamma dear
Never mind. I don't mind. I will do something. I will be something. Things will come right. It seemed worse because I was away. Come now! you must be glad because I am here
something
Bless you, my good, good darling! I can be happy, if you can
Keep them all away from us to-day, mamma. Let you and me be alone together
What have you thought of doing, exactly, mamma
Oh, my dear, the next thing to be done is to move away from this house. Mr. Haynes most fortunately is as glad to have it now as he would have been when we took it. Lord Brackenshaw's agent is to arrange everything with him to the best advantage for us: Bazley, you know; not at all an ill-natured man
I cannot help thinking that Lord Brackenshaw would let you stay here rent-free, mamma
My dear child, Lord Brackenshaw is in Scotland, and knows nothing about us. Neither your uncle nor I would choose to apply to him. Besides, what could we do in this house without servants, and without money to warm it? The sooner we are out the better. We have nothing to carry but our clothes, you know
I suppose you mean to go abroad, then
Oh, no, dear, no. How could we travel? You never did learn anything about income and expenses
that makes it so much harder for you, my pet
But where are we to go
It is all decided. A little furniture is to be got in from the rectory -- all that can be spared
It is Sawyer's Cottage we are to go to
That is impossible. Something else than that ought to have been thought of. My uncle ought not to allow that. I will not submit to it
My sweet child, what else could have been thought of? Your uncle, I am sure, is as kind as he can be: but he is suffering himself; he has his family to bring up. And do you quite understand? You must remember -- we have nothing. We shall have absolutely nothing except what he and my sister give us. They have been as wise and active a possible, and we must try to earn something. I and the girls are going to work a table-cloth border for the Ladies' Charity at Winchester, and a communion cloth that the parishioners are to present to Pennicote Church
But surely somewhere else than Sawyer's Cottage might have been found
No, indeed, dear. You know houses are scarce, and we may be thankful to get anything so private. It is not so very bad. There are two little parlors and four bedrooms. You shall sit alone whenever you like
I cannot conceive that all your property is gone at once, mamma. How can you be sure in so short a time? It is not a week since you wrote to me
Oh, how vexatious
If I had known, I could have brought home the money I had won: and for want of knowing, I stayed and lost it. I had nearly two hundred pounds, and it would have done for us to live on a little while, till I could carry out some plan
Everything has gone against me. People have come near me only to blight me
We must resign ourselves to the will of Providence, my child
But I don't resign myself. I shall do what I can against it. What is the good of calling the people's wickedness Providence? You said in your letter it was Mr. Lassman's fault we had lost our money. Has he run away with it all
No, dear, you don't understand. There were great speculations: he meant to gain. It was all about mines and things of that sort. He risked too much
I don't call that Providence: it was his improvidence with our money, and he ought to be punished. Can't we go to law and recover our fortune? My uncle ought to take measures, and not sit down by such wrongs. We ought to go to law
My dear child, law can never bring back money lost in that way. Your uncle says it is milk spilled upon the ground. Besides, one must have a fortune to get any law: there is no law for people who are ruined. And our money has only gone along with other's people's. We are not the only sufferers: others have to resign themselves besides us
But I don't resign myself to live at Sawyer's Cottage and see you working for sixpences and shillings because of that. I shall not do it. I shall do what is more befitting our rank and education
I am sure your uncle and all of us will approve of that, dear, and admire you the more for it
I didn't mean that you should resign yourself to worse when anything better offered itself. Both your uncle and aunt have felt that your abilities and education were a fortune for you, and they have already heard of something within your reach
What is that, mamma
There are two situations that offer themselves. One is in a bishop's family, where there are three daughters, and the other is in quite a high class of school; and in both, your French, and music, and dancing -- and then your manners and habits as a lady, are exactly what is wanted. Each is a hundred a year -- and -- just for the present
to save you from the petty, common way of living that we must go to -- you would perhaps accept one of the two
What! be like Miss Graves at Madame Meunier's? No
I think, myself, that Dr. Monpert's would be more suitable. There could be no hardship in a bishop's family
Excuse me, mamma. There are hardships everywhere for a governess. And I don't see that it would be pleasanter to be looked down on in a bishop's family than in any other. Besides, you know very well I hate teaching. Fancy me shut up with three awkward girls something like Alice! I would rather emigrate than be a governess
I have some ornaments, mamma, and I could sell them
They would make a sum: I want a little sum -- just to go on with. I dare say Marshall, at Wanchester, would take them: I know he showed me some bracelets once that he said he had bought from a lady. Jocosa might go and ask him. Jocosa is going to leave us, of course. But she might do that first
She would do anything she could, poor, dear soul. I have not told you yet -- she wanted me to take all her savings -- her three hundred pounds. I tell her to set up a little school. It will be hard for her to go into a new family now she has been so long with us
Oh, recommend her for the bishop's daughter's
I am sure she will do better than I should
Do take care not to say such things to your uncle
He will be hurt at your despising what he has exerted himself about. But I dare say you have something else in your mind that he might not disapprove, if you consulted him
There is some one else I want to consult first. Are the Arrowpoint's at Quetcham still, and is Herr Klesmer there? But I daresay you know nothing about it, poor, dear mamma. Can Jeffries go on horseback with a note
Oh, my dear, Jefferies is not here, and the dealer has taken the horses. But some one could go for us from Leek's farm. The Arrowpoints are at Quetcham, I know. Miss Arrowpoint left her card the other day: I could not see her. But I don't know about Herr Klesmer. Do you want to send before to-morrow
Yes, as soon as possible. I will write a note
What can you be thinking of, Gwen
Don't mind what, there's a dear, good mamma
I mean to do something. Never mind what until it is all settled. And then you shall be comforted. The dear face!-- it is ten years older in these three weeks. Now, now, now! don't cry
But mind you don't contradict me or put hindrances in my way. I must decide for myself. I cannot be dictated to by my uncle or any one else. My life is my own affair. And I think
I think I can do better for you than let you live in Sawyer's Cottage
Pray get this sent to Quetcham at once, mamma
The man must be told to wait for an answer. Let no time be lost
taking a situation
pat betwixt too early and too late
Buy cheap, sell dear
I had no idea before that you were a political man
You must have been used to public speaking. You speak uncommonly well, though I don't agree with you. From what you said about sentiment, I fancy you are a Panslavist
No; my name is Elijah. I am the Wandering Jew
Herr Klesmer has cosmopolitan ideas
He looks forward to a fusion of races
With all my heart
I was sure he had too much talent to be a mere musician
Ah, sir, you are under some mistake there
No man has too much talent to be a musician. Most men have too little. A creative artist is no more a mere musician than a great statesman is a mere politician. We are not ingenious puppets, sir, who live in a box and look out on the world only when it is gaping for amusement. We help to rule the nations and make the age as much as any other public men. We count ourselves on level benches with legislators. And a man who speaks effectively through music is compelled to something more difficult than parliamentary eloquence
Your pianist does not think small beer of himself
Herr Klesmer is something more than a pianist
He is a great musician in the fullest sense of the word. He will rank with Schubert and Mendelssohn
Ah, you ladies understand these things
Why were you so heated last night with Mr. Bult? He meant no harm
You wish me to be complaisant to him
I think it is hardly worth your while to be other than civil
You find no difficulty in tolerating him, then?-- you have a respect for a political platitudinarian as insensible as an ox to everything he can't turn into political capital. You think his monumental obtuseness suited to the dignity of the English gentleman
I did not say that
You mean that I acted without dignity, and you are offended with me
Now you are slightly nearer the truth
Then I had better put my burial-clothes in my portmanteau and set off at once
I don't see that. If I have to bear your criticism of my operetta, you should not mind my criticism of your impatience
But I do mind it. You would have wished me to take his ignorant impertinence about a 'mere musician' without letting him know his place. I am to hear my gods blasphemed as well as myself insulted. But I beg pardon. It is impossible you should see the matter as I do. Even you can't understand the wrath of the artist: he is of another caste for you
That is true
He is of a caste to which I look up -- a caste above mine
That is finely felt -- I am grateful. But I had better go, all the same. I have made up my mind to go, for good and all. You can get on exceedingly well without me: your operetta is on wheels -- it will go of itself. And your Mr. Bull's company fits me 'wie die Faust ins Auge.' I am neglecting my engagements. I must go off to St. Petersburg
You agree with me that I had better go
Certainly; if that is what your business and feeling prompt. I have only to wonder that you have consented to give us so much of your time in the last year. There must be treble the interest to you anywhere else. I have never thought of you consenting to come here as anything else than a sacrifice
Why should I make the sacrifice
Ich hab' dich geliebet und liebe dich noch
That is the mystery
You can conceive no motive
None that seems in the least probable
Then I shall tell you. It is because you are to me the chief woman in the world -- the throned lady whose colors I carry between my heart and my armor
This would be the last impertinence in me, if I meant to found anything upon it. That is out of the question. I meant no such thing. But you once said it was your doom to suspect every man who courted you of being an adventurer, and what made you angriest was men's imputing to you the folly of believing that they courted you for your own sake. Did you not say so
Very likely
It was a bitter word. Well, at least one man who has seen women as plenty as flowers in May has lingered about you for your own sake. And since he is one whom you can never marry, you will believe him. There is an argument in favor of some other man. But don't give yourself for a meal to a minotaur like Bult. I shall go now and pack. I shall make my excuses to Mrs. Arrowpoint
You must take this heap of manuscript
Why should I not marry the man who loves me, if I love him
It would be too hard -- impossible -- you could not carry it through. I am not worth what you would have to encounter. I will not accept the sacrifice. It would be thought a _mesalliance_ for you and I should be liable to the worst accusations
Is it the accusations you are afraid of? I am afraid of nothing but that we should miss the passing of our lives together
Tasso
If Klesmer has presumed to offer himself to you, your father shall horsewhip him off the premises. Pray, speak, Mr. Arrowpoint
This will never do, Cath
Do
who in their senses ever thought it would do? You might as well say poisoning and strangling will not do. It is a comedy you have got up, Catherine. Else you are mad
I am quite sane and serious, mamma, and Herr Klesmer is not to blame. He never thought of my marrying him. I found out that he loved me, and loving him, I told him I would marry him
Leave that unsaid, Catherine
Every one else will say that for you. You will be a public fable. Every one will say that you must have made an offer to a man who has been paid to come to the house -- who is nobody knows what -- a gypsy, a Jew, a mere bubble of the earth
Never mind, mamma
We all know he is a genius -- as Tasso was
Those times were not these, nor is Klesmer Tasso
There is no sting in _that_ sarcasm, except the sting of undutifulness
I am sorry to hurt you, mamma. But I will not give up the happiness of my life to ideas that I don't believe in and customs I have no respect for
You have lost all sense of duty, then? You have forgotten that you are our only child -- that it lies with you to place a great property in the right hands
What are the right hands? My grandfather gained the property in trade
Mr. Arrowpoint, _will_ you sit by and hear this without speaking
I am a gentleman, Cath. We expect you to marry a gentleman
And a man connected with the institutions of this country
A woman in your position has serious duties. Where duty and inclination clash, she must follow duty
I don't deny that
But one may say very true things and apply them falsely. People can easily take the sacred word duty as a name for what they desire any one else to do
Your parent's desire makes no duty for you, then
Yes, within reason. But before I give up the happiness of my life
Catherine, Catherine, it will not be your happiness
Well, what seems to me my happiness -- before I give it up, I must see some better reason than the wish that I should marry a nobleman, or a man who votes with a party that he may be turned into a nobleman. I feel at liberty to marry the man I love and think worthy, unless some higher duty forbids
And so it does, Catherine, though you are blinded and cannot see it. It is a woman's duty not to lower herself. You are lowering yourself. Mr. Arrowpoint, will you tell your daughter what is her duty
You must see, Catherine, that Klesmer is not the man for you
He won't do at the head of estates. He has a deuced foreign look -- is an unpractical man
I really can't see what that has to do with it, papa. The land of England has often passed into the hands of foreigners -- Dutch soldiers, sons of foreign women of bad character:-- if our land were sold to-morrow it would very likely pass into the hands of some foreign merchant on 'Change. It is in everybody's mouth that successful swindlers may buy up half the land in the country. How can I stem that tide
It will never do to argue about marriage, Cath
It's no use getting up the subject like a parliamentary question. We must do as other people do. We must think of the nation and the public good
I can't see any public good concerned here, papa
Why is it to be expected of any heiress that she should carry the property gained in trade into the hands of a certain class? That seems to be a ridiculous mishmash of superannuated customs and false ambition. I should call it a public evil. People had better make a new sort of public good by changing their ambitions
That is mere sophistry, Catherine
Because you don't wish to marry a nobleman, you are not obliged to marry a mountebank or a charlatan
I cannot understand the application of such words, mamma
No, I dare say not
You have got to a pitch at which we are not likely to understand each other
It can't be done, Cath
A man like Klesmer can't marry such a property as yours. It can't be done
It certainly will not be done
Where is the man? Let him be fetched
I cannot fetch him to be insulted
Nothing will be achieved by that
I suppose you would wish him to know that in marrying you he will not marry your fortune
Certainly; if it were so, I should wish him to know it
Then you had better fetch him
Come
Herr Klesmer
it is unnecessary to repeat what has passed between us and our daughter. Mr. Arrowpoint will tell you our resolution
Your marrying is out of the question
It is a wild scheme altogether. A man has been called out for less
You have taken a base advantage of our confidence
The pretension is ridiculous. You had better give it up and leave the house at once
I can give up nothing without reference to your daughter's wish
My engagement is to her
It is useless to discuss the question
We shall never consent to the marriage. If Catherine disobeys us we shall disinherit her. You will not marry her fortune. It is right you should know that
Madam, her fortune has been the only thing I have had to regret about her. But I must ask her if she will not think the sacrifice greater than I am worthy of
It is no sacrifice to me
except that I am sorry to hurt my father and mother. I have always felt my fortune to be a wretched fatality of my life
You mean to defy us, then
I mean to marry Herr Klesmer
He had better not count on our relenting
Madam
certain reasons forbid me to retort. But understand that I consider it out of the power either of you, or of your fortune, to confer on me anything that I value. My rank as an artist is of my own winning, and I would not exchange it for any other. I am able to maintain your daughter, and I ask for no change in my life but her companionship
You will leave the house, however
I go at once
Let there be no misunderstanding, mamma
I consider myself engaged to Herr Klesmer, and I intend to marry him
It's all very fine
but what the deuce are we to do with the property
There is Harry Brendall. He can take the name
Harry Brendall will get through it all in no time
Pray go to church, mamma
I prefer seeing Herr Klesmer alone
That is hardly correct, I think
Our affairs are too serious for us to think of such nonsensical rules
They are insulting as well as ridiculous
You would not mind Isabel sitting with you? She would be reading in a corner
No; she could not: she would bite her nails and stare. It would be too irritating. Trust my judgment, mamma, I must be alone, Take them all to church
I _am_ beautiful
It is most kind of you to come, Herr Klesmer. I hope you have not thought me presumptuous
I took your wish as a command that did me honor
I wish to consult you, Herr Klesmer. We have lost all our fortune; we have nothing. I must get my own bread, and I desire to provide for my mamma, so as to save her from any hardship. The only way I can think of -- and I should like it better than anything -- is to be an actress -- to go on the stage. But, of course, I should like to take a high position, and I thought -- if you thought I could
it would be better for me to be a singer -- to study singing also
I know
I know that my method of singing is very defective; but I have been ill taught. I could be better taught; I could study. And you will understand my wish:-- to sing and act too, like Grisi, is a much higher position. Naturally, I should wish to take as high rank as I can. And I can rely on your judgment. I am sure you will tell me the truth
You have never seen anything, I think, of artists and their lives?-- I mean of musicians, actors, artists of that kind
Oh, no
You are -- pardon me
in coming to a conclusion on such a matter as this, everything must be taken into consideration -- you are perhaps twenty
I am twenty-one
Do you think I am too old
Many persons begin later than others
You have probably not thought of an artistic career until now: you did not entertain the notion, the longing -- what shall I say?-- you did not wish yourself an actress, or anything of that sort, till the present trouble
Not exactly: but I was fond of acting. I have acted; you saw me, if you remember -- you saw me here in charades, and as Hermione
Yes, yes
I remember -- I remember perfectly
I shall be very much obliged to you for taking the trouble to give me your advice, whatever it maybe
Miss Harleth
I will veil nothing from you in this matter. I should reckon myself guilty if I put a false visage on things -- made them too black or too white. The gods have a curse for him who willingly tells another the wrong road. And if I misled one who is so young, so beautiful -- who, I trust, will find her happiness along the right road, I should regard myself as a -- _Boesewicht_
You are a beautiful young lady -- you have been brought up in ease -- you have done what you would -- you have not said to yourself, 'I must know this exactly,' 'I must understand this exactly,' 'I must do this exactly
In sum, you have not been called upon to be anything but a charming young lady, whom it is an impoliteness to find fault with
Well, then, with that preparation, you wish to try the life of an artist; you wish to try a life of arduous, unceasing work, and -- uncertain praise. Your praise would have to be earned, like your bread; and both would come slowly, scantily -- what do I say?-- they may hardly come at all
I thought that you, being an artist, would consider the life one of the most honorable and delightful. And if I can do nothing better?-- I suppose I can put up with the same risks as other people do
Do nothing better
No, my dear Miss Harleth, you could do nothing better -- neither man nor woman could do anything better -- if you could do what was best or good of its kind. I am not decrying the life of the true artist. I am exalting it. I say, it is out of the reach of any but choice organizations -- natures framed to love perfection and to labor for it; ready, like all true lovers, to endure, to wait, to say, I am not yet worthy, but she -- Art, my mistress -- is worthy, and I will live to merit her. An honorable life? Yes. But the honor comes from the inward vocation and the hard-won achievement: there is no honor in donning the life as a livery
I am quite prepared to bear hardships at first. Of course no one can become celebrated all at once. And it is not necessary that every one should be first-rate -- either actresses or singers. If you would be so kind as to tell me what steps I should take, I shall have the courage to take them. I don't mind going up hill. It will be easier than the dead level of being a governess. I will take any steps you recommend
I will tell you the steps, not that I recommend, but that will be forced upon you. It is all one, so far, what your goal will be -- excellence, celebrity, second, third rateness -- it is all one. You must go to town under the protection of your mother. You must put yourself under training -- musical, dramatic, theatrical:-- whatever you desire to do you have to learn
I know. You have exercised your talents -- you recite -- you sing -- from the drawing-room _standpunkt_. My dear Fraeulein, you must unlearn all that. You have not yet conceived what excellence is: you must unlearn your mistaken admirations. You must know what you have to strive for, and then you must subdue your mind and body to unbroken discipline. Your mind, I say. For you must not be thinking of celebrity: put that candle out of your eyes, and look only at excellence. You would of course earn nothing -- you could get no engagement for a long while. You would need money for yourself and your family. But that
that could perhaps be found
Now, what sort of issue might be fairly expected from all this self- denial? You would ask that. It is right that your eyes should be open to it. I will tell you truthfully. This issue would be uncertain, and, most probably, would not be worth much
You think I want talent, or am too old to begin
Yes! The desire and the training should have begun seven years ago -- or a good deal earlier. A mountebank's child who helps her father to earn shillings when she is six years old -- a child that inherits a singing throat from a long line of choristers and learns to sing as it learns to talk, has a likelier beginning. Any great achievement in acting or in music grows with the growth. Whenever an artist has been able to say, 'I came, I saw, I conquered,' it has been at the end of patient practice. Genius at first is little more than a great capacity for receiving discipline. Singing and acting, like the fine dexterity of the juggler with his cups and balls, require a shaping of the organs toward a finer and finer certainty of effect. Your muscles -- your whole frame -- must go like a watch, true, true to a hair. That is the work of spring-time, before habits have been determined
I did not pretend to genius
I only suppose that I might have a little talent -- enough to improve
I don't deny that
If you had been put in the right track some years ago and had worked well you might now have made a public singer, though I don't think your voice would have counted for much in public. For the stage your personal charms and intelligence might then have told without the present drawback of inexperience -- lack of discipline -- lack of instruction
I understood, of course, that no one can be a finished actress at once. It may be impossible to tell beforehand whether I should succeed; but that seems to me a reason why I should try. I should have thought that I might have taken an engagement at a theatre meanwhile, so as to earn money and study at the same time
Can't be done, my dear Miss Harleth -- I speak plainly -- it can't be done. I must clear your mind of these notions which have no more resemblance to reality than a pantomime. Ladies and gentlemen think that when they have made their toilet and drawn on their gloves they are as presentable on the stage as in a drawing-room. No manager thinks that. With all your grace and charm, if you were to present yourself as an aspirant to the stage, a manager would either require you to pay as an amateur for being allowed to perform or he would tell you to go and be taught -- trained to bear yourself on the stage, as a horse, however beautiful, must be trained for the circus; to say nothing of that study which would enable you to personate a character consistently, and animate it with the natural language of face, gesture, and tone. For you to get an engagement fit for you straight away is out of the question
I really cannot understand that
I shall be obliged to you if you will explain how it is that such poor actresses get engaged. I have been to the theatre several times, and I am sure there were actresses who seemed to me to act not at all well and who were quite plain
Ah, my dear Miss Harleth, that is the easy criticism of the buyer. We who buy slippers toss away this pair and the other as clumsy; but there went an apprenticeship to the making of them. Excuse me; you could not at present teach one of those actresses; but there is certainly much that she could teach you. For example, she can pitch her voice so as to be heard: ten to one you could not do it till after many trials. Merely to stand and move on the stage is an art -- requires practice. It is understood that we are not now talking of a _comparse_ in a petty theatre who earns the wages of a needle-woman. That is out of the question for you
Of course I must earn more than that
but I think I could soon learn to do tolerably well all those little things you have mentioned. I am not so very stupid. And even in Paris, I am sure, I saw two actresses playing important ladies' parts who were not at all ladies and quite ugly. I suppose I have no particular talent, but I _must_ think it is an advantage, even on the stage, to be a lady and not a perfect fright
Ah, let us understand each other
I was speaking of what you would have to go through if you aimed at becoming a real artist -- if you took music and the drama as a higher vocation in which you would strive after excellence. On that head, what I have said stands fast. You would find -- after your education in doing things slackly for one-and-twenty years -- great difficulties in study; you would find mortifications in the treatment you would get when you presented yourself on the footing of skill. You would be subjected to tests; people would no longer feign not to see your blunders. You would at first only be accepted on trial. You would have to bear what I may call a glaring insignificance: any success must be won by the utmost patience. You would have to keep your place in a crowd, and after all it is likely you would lose it and get out of sight. If you determine to face these hardships and still try, you will have the dignity of a high purpose, even though you may have chosen unfortunately. You will have some merit, though you may win no prize. You have asked my judgment on your chances of winning. I don't pretend to speak absolutely; but measuring probabilities, my judgment is:-- you will hardly achieve more than mediocrity
_But_
But -- there are certainly other ideas, other dispositions with which a young lady may take up an art that will bring her before the public. She may rely on the unquestioned power of her beauty as a passport. She may desire to exhibit herself to an admiration which dispenses with skill. This goes a certain way on the stage: not in music: but on the stage, beauty is taken when there is nothing more commanding to be had. Not without some drilling, however: as I have said before, technicalities have in any case to be mastered. But these excepted, we have here nothing to do with art. The woman who takes up this career is not an artist: she is usually one who thinks of entering on a luxurious life by a short and easy road -- perhaps by marriage -- that is her most brilliant chance, and the rarest. Still, her career will not be luxurious to begin with: she can hardly earn her own poor bread independently at once, and the indignities she will be liable to are such as I will not speak of
I desire to be independent
That was my reason for asking whether I could not get an immediate engagement. Of course I cannot know how things go on about theatres. But I thought that I could have made myself independent. I have no money, and I will not accept help from any one
That is a hard saying for your friends
I have given you pain. That was inevitable. I was bound to put the truth, the unvarnished truth, before you. I have not said -- I will not say -- you will do wrong to choose the hard, climbing path of an endeavoring artist. You have to compare its difficulties with those of any less hazardous -- any more private course which opens itself to you. If you take that more courageous resolve I will ask leave to shake hands with you on the strength of our freemasonry, where we are all vowed to the service of art, and to serve her by helping every fellow-servant
Where there is the duty of service there must be the duty of accepting it. The question is not one of personal obligation. And in relation to practical matters immediately affecting your future -- excuse my permitting myself to mention in confidence an affair of my own. I am expecting an event which would make it easy for me to exert myself on your behalf in furthering your opportunities of instruction and residence in London -- under the care, that is, of your family -- without need for anxiety on your part. If you resolve to take art as a bread-study, you need only undertake the study at first; the bread will be found without trouble. The event I mean is my marriage -- in fact -- you will receive this as a matter of confidence -- my marriage with Miss Arrowpoint, which will more than double such right as I have to be trusted by you as a friend. Your friendship will have greatly risen in value for _her_ by your having adopted that generous labor
I congratulate you sincerely, Herr Klesmer. I think I never saw any one so admirable as Miss Arrowpoint. And I have to thank you for every sort of kindness this morning. But I can't decide now. If I make the resolve you have spoken of, I will use your permission -- I will let you know. But I fear the obstacles are too great. In any case, I am deeply obliged to you. It was very bold of me to ask you to take this trouble
She will never let me know
Command me at any time. There is an address on this card which will always find me with little delay
If I take the wrong road, it will not be because of your flattery
God forbid that you should take any road but one where you will find and give happiness
Too old -- should have begun seven years ago -- you will not, at best, achieve more than mediocrity -- hard, incessant work, uncertain praise -- bread coming slowly, scantily, perhaps not at all -- mortifications, people no longer feigning not to see your blunders -- glaring insignificance
An end of it
Well, my darling
I see by the wheel-marks that Klesmer has been here. Have you been satisfied with the interview
Satisfied, mamma? oh, yes
Your uncle and aunt were disappointed at not seeing you
I only said that you wanted rest
Quite right, mamma
Am I not to know anything now, Gwendolen? Am I always to be in the dark
There is really nothing to tell now, mamma
I had a mistaken idea about something I could do. Herr Klesmer has undeceived me. That is all
Don't look and speak in that way, my dear child: I cannot bear it
Mamma, don't speak to me now. It is useless to cry and waste our strength over what can't be altered. You will live at Sawyer's Cottage, and I am going to the bishop's daughters. There is no more to be said. Things cannot be altered, and who cares? It makes no difference to any one else what we do. We must try not to care ourselves. We must not give way. I dread giving way. Help me to be quiet
I question things but do not find One that will answer to my mind: And all the world appears unkind
How _shall_ you endure it, mamma
You and the four girls all in that closet of a room, with the green and yellow paper pressing on your eyes? And without me
It will be some comfort that you have not to bear it too, dear
If it were not that I must get some money, I would rather be there than go to be a governess
Don't set yourself against it beforehand, Gwendolen. If you go to the palace you will have every luxury about you. And you know how much you have always cared for that. You will not find it so hard as going up and down those steep narrow stairs, and hearing the crockery rattle through the house, and the dear girls talking
It is like a bad dream
I cannot believe that my uncle will let you go to such a place. He ought to have taken some other steps
Don't be unreasonable, dear child. What could he have done
That was for him to find out. It seems to me a very extraordinary world if people in our position must sink in this way all at once
I felt that there was no time to be lost, Gwendolen; for a position in a good family where you will have some consideration is not to be had at a moment's notice. And however long we waited we could hardly find one where you would be better off than at Bishop Mompert's. I am known to both him and Mrs. Mompert, and that of course is an advantage to you. Our correspondence has gone on favorably; but I cannot be surprised that Mrs. Mompert wishes to see you before making an absolute engagement. She thinks of arranging for you to meet her at Wanchester when she is on her way to town. I dare say you will feel the interview rather trying for you, my dear; but you will have a little time to prepare your mind
Do you know _why_ she wants to see me, uncle
Don't be alarmed, my dear. She would like to have a more precise idea of you than my report can give. And a mother is naturally scrupulous about a companion for her daughters. I have told her you are very young. But she herself exercises a close supervision over her daughters' education, and that makes her less anxious as to age. She is a woman of taste and also of strict principle, and objects to having a French person in the house. I feel sure that she will think your manners and accomplishments as good as she is likely to find; and over the religious and moral tone of the education she, and indeed the bishop himself, will preside
I think so highly of the position, that I should have been tempted to try and get it for Anna, if she had been at all likely to meet Mrs. Mompert's wants. It is really a home, with a continuance of education in the highest sense: 'governess' is a misnomer. The bishop's views are of a more decidedly Low Church color than my own -- he is a close friend of Lord Grampian's; but, though privately strict, he is not by any means narrow in public matters. Indeed, he has created as little dislike in his diocese as any bishop on the bench. He has always remained friendly to me, though before his promotion, when he was an incumbent of this diocese, we had a little controversy about the Bible Society
Continuance of education
privately strict
There was another situation, I think, mamma spoke of
but that is in a school. I should not have the same satisfaction in your taking that. It would be much harder work, you are aware, and not so good in any other respect. Besides, you have not an equal chance of getting it
Oh dear no
it would be much less appropriate, You might not have a bedroom to yourself
When is Mrs. Mompert likely to send for me
That is rather uncertain, but she has promised not to entertain any other proposal till she has seen you. She has entered with much feeling into your position. It will be within the next fortnight, probably. But I must be off now. I am going to let part of my glebe uncommonly well
What a stay Henry is to us all
He is indeed
I think cheerfulness is a fortune in itself. I wish I had it
And Rex is just like him
I must tell you the comfort we have had in a letter from him. I must read you a little bit
However, he tells us that our trouble has made a man of him; he sees a reason for any amount of work: he means to get a fellowship, to take pupils, to set one of his brothers going, to be everything that is most remarkable. The letter is full of fun -- just like him. He says, 'Tell mother she has put out an advertisement for a jolly good hard-working son, in time to hinder me from taking ship; and I offer myself for the place.' The letter came on Friday. I never saw my husband so much moved by anything since Rex was born. It seemed a gain to balance our loss
Nothing is wrong with you now, is it
take a situation
I suppose I shall begin to pretend by-and-by, but why should I do it now
Mamma
I had forgotten these things. Why didn't you remind me of them? Do see about getting them sold. You will not mind about parting with them. You gave them all to me long ago
If we can do without them, darling, I would rather keep them for you
Why, how came you to put that pocket handkerchief in here
It happened to be with the necklace -- I was in a hurry
Don't sell the necklace, mamma
No, dear, no; it was made out of your dear father's chain. And I should prefer not selling the other things. None of them are of any great value. All my best ornaments were taken from me long ago
And these things have not been reckoned on for any expenses. Carry them with you
That would be quite useless, mamma
Governesses don't wear ornaments. You had better get me a gray frieze livery and a straw poke, such as my aunt's charity children wear
No, dear, no; don't take that view of it. I feel sure the Momperts will like you the better for being graceful and elegant
I am not at all sure what the Momperts will like me to be. It is enough that I am expected to be what they like
If there is anything you would object to less -- anything that could be done -- instead of your going to the bishop's, do say so, Gwendolen. Tell me what is in your heart. I will try for anything you wish
Don't keep things away from me. Let us bear them together
Oh, mamma, there is nothing to tell. I can't do anything better. I must think myself fortunate if they will have me. I shall get some money for you. That is the only thing I have to think of. I shall not spend any money this year: you will have all the eighty pounds. I don't know how far that will go in housekeeping; but you need not stitch your poor fingers to the bone, and stare away all the sight that the tears have left in your dear eyes
Bless you for your tenderness, my good darling
Don't despair because there are clouds now. You are so young. There may be great happiness in store for you yet
I don't see any reason for expecting it, mamma
What did happen between her and Mr. Grandcourt
I _will_ keep this necklace, mamma
But do get the other things sold, even if they will not bring much. Ask my uncle what to do with them. I shall certainly not use them again. I am going to take the veil. I wonder if all the poor wretches who have ever taken it felt as I do
Don't exaggerate evils, dear
How can any one know that I exaggerate, when I am speaking of my own feeling? I did not say what any one else felt
Yes; I heard somebody say how providential it was that there always happened to be springs at gambling places
Oh, that was a joke
in imitation of the old one about the towns and the rivers, you know
Ah, perhaps
Oh, my dear, he is not a fool. You must not suppose that he can't see a joke. He can play his cards as well as most of us
He has never seemed to me a very sensible man
You had better come over for a run or two when the season begins
Well, you will let me know the turn of events
if this marriage seems likely to come off after all, or if anything else happens to make the want of money pressing. My plan would be much better for him than burdening Ryelands
That's true
only it must not be urged on him -- just placed in his way that the scent may tickle him. Grandcourt is not a man to be always led by what makes for his own interest; especially if you let him see that it makes for your interest too. I'm attached to him, of course. I've given up everything else for the sake of keeping by him, and it has lasted a good fifteen years now. He would not easily get any one else to fill my place. He's a peculiar character, is Henleigh Grandcourt, and it has been growing on him of late years. However, I'm of a constant disposition, and I've been a sort of guardian to him since he was twenty; an uncommonly fascinating fellow he was then, to be sure -- and could be now, if he liked. I'm attached to him; and it would be a good deal worse for him if he missed me at his elbow
Are you making all the arrangements for our starting by the Paris train
I didn't know you meant to start
You might have known
Just see to everything, will you? and mind no brute gets into the same carriage with us. And leave my P. P. C. at the Mallingers
Oh
What is it
Shut the door, will you? I can't speak into the corridor
Is Miss Harleth at Offendene
Well, I hardly know
The family's utterly done up. They and the Gascoignes too have lost all their money. It's owing to some rascally banking business. The poor mother hasn't a _sou_, it seems. She and the girls have to huddle themselves into a little cottage like a laborer's
Don't lie to me, if you please
It's not amusing, and it answers no other purpose
What do you mean
Just tell me the truth, will you
It's no invention of mine. I have heard the story from several -- Bazley, Brackenshaw's man, for one. He is getting a new tenant for Offendene
I don't mean that. Is Miss Harleth there, or is she not
Upon my soul, I can't tell
She may have left yesterday. I heard she had taken a situation as governess; she may be gone to it for what I know. But if you wanted to see her no doubt the mother would send for her back
Send Hutchins to inquire whether she will be there tomorrow
It would be as well for you to remember, Grandcourt, that you are coming under closer fire now. There can be none of the ordinary flirting done, which may mean everything or nothing. You must make up your mind whether you wish to be accepted; and more than that, how you would like being refused. Either one or the other. You can't be philandering after her again for six weeks
Everything has a more serious look now than it had before. There is her family to be provided for. You could not let your wife's mother live in beggary. It will be a confoundedly hampering affair. Marriage will pin you down in a way you haven't been used to; and in point of money you have not too much elbow-room. And after all, what will you get by it? You are master over your estates, present or future, as far as choosing your heir goes; it's a pity to go on encumbering them for a mere whim, which you may repent of in a twelvemonth. I should be sorry to see you making a mess of your life in that way. If there were anything solid to be gained by the marriage, that would be a different affair
I knew before that you had an objection to my marrying Miss Harleth
But I never considered that a reason against it
I never supposed you did
It was not _that_ I urged as a reason. I should have thought it might have been a reason against it, after all your experience, that you would be acting like the hero of a ballad, and making yourself absurd -- and all for what? You know you couldn't make up your mind before. It's impossible you can care much about her. And as for the tricks she is likely to play, you may judge of that from what you heard at Leubronn. However, what I wished to point out to you was, that there can be no shilly-shally now
Perfectly
I don't intend that there should be. I dare say it's disagreeable to you. But if you suppose I care a damn for that you are most stupendously mistaken
Oh, well
if you have made up your mind!-- only there's another aspect of the affair. I have been speaking on the supposition that it was absolutely certain she would accept you, and that destitution would have no choice. But I am not so sure that the young lady is to be counted on. She is kittle cattle to shoe, I think. And she had her reasons for running away before
She had her reasons
I had come to that conclusion before
Yes, but I hardly think you know what her reasons were
You do, apparently
Yes, and you had better know too, that you may judge of the influence you have over her if she swallows her reasons and accepts you. For my own part I would take odds against it. She saw Lydia in Cardell Chase and heard the whole story
What follows
check
Oblige me by pushing that pen and paper here, will you
Just wait for this letter
Let Hutchins go with it at once, will you
They're fair, but I will none of them
You will find an interest in varied experience, my dear, and I have no doubt you will be a more valuable woman for having sustained such a part as you are called to
I cannot pretend to believe that I shall like it
But I am quite aware that I am obliged to bear it
And your good sense will teach you to behave suitably under it
I feel sure that Mrs. Mompert will be pleased with you. You will know how to conduct yourself to a woman who holds in all senses the relation of a superior to you. This trouble has come on you young, but that makes it in some respects easier, and there is a benefit in all chastisement if we adjust our minds to it
I have always, ever since I was little, felt that mamma was not a happy woman; and now I dare say I shall be more unhappy than she has been
Poor mamma! it will be still worse for her now. I can get a little money for her -- that is all I shall care about now
Poor Gwen too is sad and faded now
It was nothing, mamma
It is all over now
What is that letter?-- worse news still
I don't know what you will think it, dear
You will hardly guess where it comes from
Don't ask me to guess anything
It is addressed to you, dear
It comes from Diplow
It must be answered, darling
The man waits
I wish I had never known it
It will be necessary for you to write, dear. Or shall I write an answer for you -- which you will dictate
No, mamma
But please lay me out the pen and paper
There is really no reason on earth why you should be so alarmed at the man's waiting a few minutes, mamma
Servants expect nothing else than to wait. It is not to be supposed that I must write on the instant
No, dear
he can wait another quarter of an hour, if you like
I did not mean him to wait long enough for that needlework to be finished
But if you don't feel able to decide
I _must_ decide
If Mr. Grandcourt has only just returned from Leubronn
I wonder whether he has heard of our misfortunes
That could make no difference to a man in his position
It would to some men
They would not like to take a wife from a family in a state of beggary almost, as we are. Here we are at Offendene with a great shell over us, as usual. But just imagine his finding us at Sawyer's Cottage. Most men are afraid of being bored or taxed by a wife's family. If Mr. Grandcourt did know, I think it a strong proof of his attachment to you
Miss Harleth presents her compliments to Mr. Grandcourt. She will be at home after two o'clock to-morrow
Pray ring the bell, mamma, if there is any one to answer it
What did you say, Gwen
I said that I should be at home
You must not expect, because Mr. Grandcourt is coming, that anything is going to happen, mamma
I don't allow myself to expect anything, dear. I desire you to follow your own feeling. You have never told me what that was
What is the use of telling
When I have anything pleasant to tell, you may be sure I will tell you
But Mr. Grandcourt will consider that you have already accepted him, in allowing him to come. His note tells you plainly enough that he is coming to make you an offer
Very well; and I wish to have the pleasure of refusing him
Put down that detestable needle-work, and let us walk in the avenue. I am stifled
Only gather it up easily and make a coil, mamma
Let me bring you some ear-rings, Gwen
You do want your earrings
No, mamma; I shall not wear any ornaments, and I shall put on my black silk. Black is the only wear when one is going to refuse an offer
Suppose the offer is not made after all
Then that will be because I refuse it beforehand
It comes to the same thing
She is quite herself again. It must be pleasure in his coming. Can her mind be really made up against him
I will not interfere with your wishes
Mamma managed baldly
I wonder what mamma and my uncle would say if they knew about Mrs. Glasher
I wonder what anybody would say; or what they would say to Mr. Grandcourt's marrying some one else and having other children
poor mamma
I was disappointed not to find you at Leubronn
The place was intolerable without you. A mere kennel of a place. Don't you think so
I can't judge what it would be without myself
_With_ myself I like it well enough to have stayed longer, if I could. But I was obliged to come home on account of family troubles
It was very cruel of you to go to Leubronn
You must have known that it would spoil everything: you knew you were the heart and soul of everything that went on. Are you quite reckless about me
no
Perhaps there is some deeper interest? Some attraction -- some engagement -- which it would have been only fair to make me aware of? Is there any man who stands between us
No; but there is a woman
Am I to understand that some one else is preferred
No
What then? I may not be ready to take _you_
The last thing I would do, is to importune you. I should not hope to win you by making myself a bore. If there were no hope for me, I would ask you to tell me so at once, that I might just ride away to -- no matter where
I fear you are not aware of what has happened to us. I have lately had to think so much of my mamma's troubles, that other subjects have been quite thrown into the background. She has lost all her fortune, and we are going to leave this place. I must ask you to excuse my seeming preoccupied
You will tell me now, I hope, that Mrs. Davilow's loss of fortune will not trouble you further. You will trust me to prevent it from weighing upon her. You will give me the claim to provide against that
You are very generous
You accept what will make such things a matter of course
You consent to become my wife
Do you command me to go
No
You accept my devotion
Yes
Will you not see mamma? I will fetch her
Let us wait a little
Have you anything else to say to me
Yes -- I know having things said to you is a great bore
Not when they are things I like to hear
Will it bother you to be asked how soon we can be married
I think it will, to-day
Not to-day, then, but to-morrow. Think of it before I come to-morrow. In a fortnight -- or three weeks -- as soon as possible
Ah, you think you will be tired of my company
I notice when people are married the husband is not so much with his wife as when they are engaged. But perhaps I shall like that better, too
You shall have whatever you like
And nothing that I don't like?-- please say that; because I think I dislike what I don't like more than I like what I like
I don't know -- this is such a brute of a world, things are always turning up that one doesn't like. I can't always hinder your being bored. If you like to ride Criterion, I can't hinder his coming down by some chance or other
Ah, my friend Criterion, how is he
He is outside: I made the groom ride him, that you might see him. He had the side-saddle on for an hour or two yesterday. Come to the window and look at him
Will you ride Criterion to-morrow
If you will, everything shall be arranged
I should like it of all things
I want to lose myself in a gallop again. But now I must go and fetch mamma
Take my arm to the door, then
Oh, while I think of it -- there is something I dislike that you can save me from. I do _not_ like Mr. Lush's company
You shall not have it. I'll get rid of him
You are not fond of him yourself
Not in the least. I let him hang on me because he has always been a poor devil
They got him to travel with me when I was a lad. He was always that coarse-haired kind of brute -- sort of cross between a hog and a _dilettante_
Come down, mamma, and see Mr. Grandcourt. I am engaged to him
My darling child
Yes
Everything is settled. You are not going to Sawyer's Cottage, I am not going to be inspected by Mrs. Mompert, and everything is to be as I like. So come down with me immediately." 

BOOK IV -- GWENDOLEN GETS HER CHOICE
Il est plus aise de connoitre l'homme en general que de connoitre un homme en particulier.-- LA ROCHEFOUCAULD
My dear, let me congratulate you on having created a strong attachment
You look serious, and I don't wonder at it: a lifelong union is a solemn thing. But from the way Mr. Grandcourt has acted and spoken I think we may already see some good arising out of our adversity. It has given you an opportunity of observing your future husband's delicate liberality
But I have no doubt that Mr. Grandcourt would have behaved quite as handsomely if you had not gone away to Germany, Gwendolen, and had been engaged to him, as you no doubt might have been, more than a month ago
But now there is no more room for caprice; indeed, I trust you have no inclination to any. A woman has a great debt of gratitude to a man who perseveres in making her such an offer. But no doubt you feel properly
I am not at all sure that I do, aunt
I don't know everything it is proper to feel on being engaged
I do hope you will be happy
Sir Charles Grandison
I should like to know exactly what sort of places Ryelands and Gadsmere are
Gadsmere, I believe, is a secondary place
But Ryelands I know to be one of our finest seats. The park is extensive and the woods of a very valuable order. The house was built by Inigo Jones, and the ceilings are painted in the Italian style. The estate is said to be worth twelve thousand a year, and there are two livings, one a rectory, in the gift of the Grandcourts. There may be some burdens on the land. Still, Mr. Grandcourt was an only child
It would be most remarkable
if he were to become Lord Stannery in addition to everything else. Only think: there is the Grandcourt estate, the Mallinger estate, _and_ the baronetcy, _and_ the peerage
but they say there will be no land coming to him with the peerage
The peerage
must be regarded as a remote chance. There are two cousins between the present peer and Mr. Grandcourt. It is certainly a serious reflection how death and other causes do sometimes concentrate inheritances on one man. But an excess of that kind is to be deprecated. To be Sir Mallinger Grandcourt Mallinger -- I suppose that will be his style -- with corresponding properties, is a valuable talent enough for any man to have committed to him. Let us hope it will be well used
And what a position for the wife, Gwendolen
a great responsibility indeed. But you must lose no time in writing to Mrs. Mompert, Henry. It is a good thing that you have an engagement of marriage to offer as an excuse, else she might feel offended. She is rather a high woman
I am rid of that horror
looking on darkness which the blind do see
Mamma
Yes, dear
Let me come to you
I am sorry to wake you, darling, but I thought it better to give you this at once. The groom has brought Criterion; he has come on another horse, and says he is to stay here
How very kind and delicate
But I really should like better not to be dependent on a son-in-law. I and the girls could get along very well
Mamma, if you say that again, I will not marry him
My dear child, I trust you are not going to marry only for my sake
What I long for is your happiness, dear
I will not say anything to vex you. Will you not put on the ring
I thought the lover always put on the betrothal ring himself
I know why he has sent it
Why
He would rather make me put it on than ask me to let him do it. Aha! he is very proud. But so am I. We shall match each other. I should hate a man who went down on his knees, and came fawning on me. He really is not disgusting
That is very moderate praise, Gwen
No, it is not, for a man
But now I must get up and dress. Will you come and do my hair, mamma, dear
and not be so naughty any more as to talk of living in poverty? You must bear to be made comfortable, even if you don't like it. And Mr. Grandcourt behaves perfectly, now, does he not
Certainly he does
Of what use would it be to her that I should not marry him? He could have married her if he liked; but he did _not_ like. Perhaps she is to blame for that. There must be a great deal about her that I know nothing of. And he must have been good to her in many ways, else she would not have wanted to marry him
Perhaps we shall have no children. I hope we shall not. And he might leave the estate to the pretty little boy. My uncle said that Mr. Grandcourt could do as he liked with the estates. Only when Sir Hugo Mallinger dies there will be enough for two
Go back and make yourself look like a duchess, mamma
Put your point-lace over your head. I must have you look like a duchess. You must not take things humbly
It was very good of you to think of everything and send me that packet
You will tell me if there is anything I forget
I will do anything you wish
But I am very unreasonable in my wishes
Yes, I expect that. Women always are
Then I will not be unreasonable
I will not be told that I am what women always are
I did not say that
You are what no other woman is
And what is that, pray
You are the woman I love
Oh, what nice speeches
Give me a nice speech in return. Say when we are to be married
Not yet. Not till we have had a gallop over the downs. I am so thirsty for that, I can think of nothing else. I wish the hunting had begun. Sunday the twentieth, twenty-seventh, Monday, Tuesday
It will begin in ten days
Let us be married in ten days, then
and we shall not be bored about the stables
What do women always say in answer to that
They agree to it
Then I will not
And when is the marriage to take place
On the tenth
I suppose you intend to remain here
We shall go to Ryelands for a little while; but we shall return here for the sake of the hunting
You had better make some new arrangement for yourself
What! I am to cut and run
Something of that kind
The bride objects to me. I hope she will make up to you for the want of my services
I can't help your being so damnably disagreeable to women
To one woman, if you please
It makes no difference since she is the one in question
I suppose I am not to be turned adrift after fifteen years without some provision
You must have saved something out of me
Deuced little. I have often saved something for you
You can have three hundred a year. But you must live in town and be ready to look after things when I want you. I shall be rather hard up
If you are not going to be at Ryelands this winter, I might run down there and let you know how Swinton goes on
If you like. I don't care a toss where you are, so that you keep out of sight
Much obliged
Perhaps you will not object to packing up as soon as possible
The Torringtons are coming, and Miss Harleth will be riding over here
With all my heart. Can't I be of use in going to Gadsmere
No. I am going myself
About your being rather hard up. Have you thought of that plan
Just leave me alone, will you
You see this fine young fellow -- not such as you see every day, is he?-- he belongs to me in a sort of way. I brought him up from a child; but you would not ticket him off easily, he has notions of his own, and he's as far as the poles asunder from what I was at his age
What do you say, Dan? It would be pleasant enough for you. You have not seen the place for a good many years now, and you might have a famous run with the harriers if you went down next week
I should not go on that account
I think Lush's notion is a good one. And it would be a pity to lose the occasion
That is a different matter -- if you think my going of importance to your object
Why, you will see the fair gambler, the Leubronn Diana, I shouldn't wonder
We shall have to invite her to the Abbey, when they are married
I cannot conceive whom you mean
I mean that Grandcourt is going to marry the girl you saw at Leubronn -- don't you remember her -- the Miss Harleth who used to play at roulette
Dear me! Is that a good match for him
That depends on the sort of goodness he wants
However, she and her friends have nothing, and she will bring him expenses. It's a good match for my purposes, because if I am willing to fork out a sum of money, he may be willing to give up his chance of Diplow, so that we shall have it out and out, and when I die you will have the consolation of going to the place you would like to go to -- wherever I may go
I wish you would not talk of dying in that light way, dear
It's rather a heavy way, Lou, for I shall have to pay a heavy sum -- forty thousand, at least
But why are we to invite them to the Abbey
I do _not_ like women who gamble, like Lady Cragstone
Oh, you will not mind her for a week. Besides, she is not like Lady Cragstone because she gambled a little, any more than I am like a broker because I'm a Whig. I want to keep Grandcourt in good humor, and to let him see plenty of this place, that he may think the less of Diplow. I don't know yet whether I shall get him to meet me in this matter. And if Dan were to go over on a visit there, he might hold out the bait to him. It would be doing me a great service
Daniel is not fond of Mr. Grandcourt, I think, is he
There is no avoiding everybody one doesn't happen to be fond of
I will go to Diplow -- I don't know that I have anything better to do -- since Sir Hugo wishes it
That's a trump
And if you don't find it very pleasant, it's so much experience. Nothing used to come amiss to me when I was young. You must see men and manners
Yes; but I have seen that man, and something of his manners too
Not nice manners, I think
Well, you see they succeed with your sex
And he was an uncommonly good-looking fellow when he was two or three and twenty -- like his father. He doesn't take after his father in marrying the heiress, though. If he had got Miss Arrowpoint and my land too, confound him, he would have had a fine principality
Surely whoever speaks to me in the right voice, him or her I shall follow. As the water follows the moon, silently, with fluid steps anywhere around the globe
Now my cousins are at Diplow
will you go there?-- to- morrow? The carriage shall come for Mrs. Davilow. You can tell me what you would like done in the rooms. Things must be put in decent order while we are away at Ryelands. And to-morrow is the only day
I beg your pardon -- did I annoy you
Oh, it was nothing
only I cannot bear -- to be kissed under my ear
Why is to-morrow the only day
Because the next day is the first with the hounds
And after that
After that I must go away for a couple of days -- it's a bore -- but I shall go one day and come back the next
You object to my going away
It's no use objecting
Yes it is
I will put off going. And I will travel at night, so as only to be away one day
Then don't put off going, but travel at night
Then you will go to Diplow to-morrow
Oh, yes, if you wish it
How you treat us poor devils of men
We are always getting the worst of it
_Are_ you
_Are_ you always getting the worst
Yes. Are you as kind to me as I am to you
If I were as kind to you as you are to me, that would spoil your generosity: it would no longer be as great as it could be -- and it is that now
Then I am not to ask for one kiss
Not one
Apropos
is there any one besides Captain and Mrs. Torrington at Diplow?-- or do you leave them _tete-a- tete_? I suppose he converses in cigars, and she answers with her chignon
She has a sister with her
and there are two men besides -- one of them you know, I believe
Ah, then, I have a poor opinion of him
You saw him at Leubronn -- young Deronda -- a young fellow with the Mallingers
I never spoke to him
Is he not disagreeable
No, not particularly
He thinks a little too much of himself. I thought he had been introduced to you
No. Some one told me his name the evening before I came away? that was all. What is he
A sort of ward of Sir Hugo Mallinger's. Nothing of any consequence
Oh, poor creature! How very unpleasant for him
I wonder if it has left off raining
Deronda, Miss Harleth tells me you were not introduced to her at Leubronn
Miss Harleth hardly remembers me, I imagine
She was intensely occupied when I saw her
On the contrary. I remember you very well
You did not approve of my playing at roulette
How did you come to that conclusion
Oh, you cast an evil eye on my play
I began to lose as soon as you came to look on. I had always been winning till then
Roulette in such a kennel as Leubronn is a horrid bore
_I_ found it a bore when I began to lose
I wonder what he thinks of me, really? He must have felt interested in me, else he would not have sent me my necklace. I wonder what he thinks of my marriage? What notions has he to make him so grave about things? Why is he come to Diplow
Shall you hunt to-morrow, Mr. Deronda
Yes, I believe so
You don't object to hunting, then
I find excuses for it. It is a sin I am inclined to -- when I can't get boating or cricketing
Do you object to my hunting
I have no right to object to anything you choose to do
You thought you had a right to object to my gambling
I was sorry for it. I am not aware that I told you of my objection
You hindered me from gambling again
Was it really so, or only a joke of yours, about Mr. Deronda's spoiling your play, Gwen
Oh, it merely happened that he was looking on when I began to lose
I noticed him
I don't wonder at that: he is a striking young man. He puts me in mind of Italian paintings. One would guess, without being told, that there was foreign blood in his veins
Is there
Mrs. Torrington says so. I asked particularly who he was, and she told me that his mother was some foreigner of high rank
His mother
Then who was his father
Well -- every one says he is the son of Sir Hugo Mallinger, who brought him up; though he passes for a ward. She says, if Sir Hugo Mallinger could have done as he liked with his estates, he would have left them to this Mr. Deronda, since he has no legitimate son
Mamma, have men generally children before they are married
No, dear, no
Why do you ask such a question
If it were so, I ought to know
You are thinking of what I said about Mr. Deronda and Sir Hugo Mallinger. That is a very unusual case, dear
Does Lady Mallinger know
She knows enough to satisfy her. That is quite clear, because Mr. Deronda has lived with them
And people think no worse of him
Well, of course he is under some disadvantage: it is not as if he were Lady Mallinger's son. He does not inherit the property, and he is not of any consequence in the world. But people are not obliged to know anything about his birth; you see, he is very well received
I wonder whether he knows about it; and whether he is angry with his father
My dear child, why should you think of that
Why
Haven't children reason to be angry with their parents? How can they help their parents marrying or not marrying
How can I help it
How can I help what other people have done? Things would not come right if I were to turn round now and declare that I would not marry Mr. Grandcourt
Go on! I want to speak to Mr. Deronda
Mr. Deronda, you must enlighten my ignorance. I want to know why you thought it wrong for me to gamble. Is it because I am a woman
Not altogether; but I regretted it the more because you were a woman
I think it would be better for men not to gamble. It is a besotting kind of taste, likely to turn into a disease. And, besides, there is something revolting to me in raking a heap of money together, and internally chuckling over it, when others are feeling the loss of it. I should even call it base, if it were more than an exceptional lapse. There are enough inevitable turns of fortune which force us to see that our gain is another's loss:-- that is one of the ugly aspects of life. One would like to reduce it as much as one could, not get amusement out of exaggerating it
But you do admit that we can't help things
I mean that things are so in spite of us; we can't always help it that our gain is another's loss
Clearly. Because of that, we should help it where we can
But why should you regret it more because I am a woman
Perhaps because we need that you should be better than we are
But suppose _we_ need that men should be better than we are
check
That is rather a difficulty
I suppose I should have said, we each of us think it would be better for the other to be good
You see, I needed you to be better than I was -- and you thought so
Don't you want to know what I had to say to Mr. Deronda
A -- no
Now that is the first impolite word you have spoken -- that you don't wish to hear what I had to say
I wish to hear what you say to me -- not to other men
Then you wish to hear this. I wanted to make him tell me why he objected to my gambling, and he gave me a little sermon
Yes -- but excuse me the sermon
If you ever marry another woman I will give them up to her: are you going to marry another woman
How changed
Hush, dear! I think some one is coming
Mamma, is it the miller with my donkey
How far are you come
From Diplow
You are tired, then
No, I rested at the Junction -- a hideous hole. These railway journeys are always a confounded bore. But I had coffee and smoked
I expected to see you -- it was so long since I had heard from you. I suppose the weeks seem longer at Gadsmere than they do at Diplow
Yes
But you found the money paid into the bank
Oh, yes
Yes
the time has gone on at rather a rattling pace with me; generally it is slow enough. But there has been a good deal happening, as you know
What do I know
That I was thinking of marrying. You saw Miss Harleth
_She_ told you that
No. Lush told me
Good God! say at once that you are going to marry her
Of course, this kind of thing must happen some time or other, Lydia
You didn't always see the necessity
Perhaps not. I see it now
All this is of no consequence to you. I and the children are importunate creatures. You wish to get away again and be with Miss Harleth
Don't make the affair more disagreeable than it need be. Lydia. It is of no use to harp on things that can't be Altered. Of course, its deucedly disagreeable to me to see you making yourself miserable. I've taken this journey to tell you what you must make up your mind to:-- you and the children will be provided for as usual;-- and there's an end of it
It will be better for you. You may go on living here. But I think of by- and-by settling a good sum on you and the children, and you can live where you like. There will be nothing for you to complain of then. Whatever happens, you will feel secure. Nothing could be done beforehand. Every thing has gone on in a hurry
You have never had any reason to fear that I should be illiberal. I don't care a curse about the money
If you did care about it, I suppose you would not give it us
That's a devilishly unfair thing to say
and I advise you not to say that sort of thing again
Should you punish me by leaving the children in beggary
There is no question about leaving the children in beggary
I advise you not to say things that you will repent of
I am used to repenting
Perhaps you will repent. You have already repented of loving me
All this will only make it uncommonly difficult for us to meet again. What friend have you besides me
Quite true
There is one thing I had to mention, Lydia. My diamonds -- you have them
Yes, I have them
They are in this house, I suppose
No; not in this house
I thought you said you kept them by you
When I said so it was true. They are in the bank at Dudley
Get them away, will you? I must make an arrangement for your delivering them to some one
Make no arrangement. They shall be delivered to the person you intended them for. _I_ will make the arrangement
What do you mean
What I say. I have always told you that I would give them up to your wife. I shall keep my word. She is not your wife yet
This is foolery
The diamonds must be delivered to me before my marriage
What is your wedding-day
The tenth. There is no time to be lost
And where do you go after the marriage
You must appoint a day before then, to get them from the bank and meet me -- or somebody else I will commission;-- it's a great nuisance, Mention a day
No; I shall not do that. They shall be delivered to her safely. I shall keep my word
Do you mean to say
that you will not do as I tell you
Yes, I mean that
Infernal idiots that women are
Why will you not tell me where you are going after the marriage? I could be at the wedding if I liked, and learn in that way
Of course, if you like, you can play the mad woman
It is not to be supposed that you will wait to think what good will come of it -- or what you owe to me
Don't let us part in anger, Henleigh
it is a very little thing I ask. If I were refusing to give anything up that you call yours it would be different: that would be a reason for treating me as if you hated me. But I ask such a little thing. If you will tell me where you are going on the wedding-day I will take care that the diamonds shall be delivered to her without scandal. Without scandal
Such preposterous whims make a woman odious
What is the use of talking to mad people
Yes, I am foolish -- loneliness has made me foolish -- indulge me
If you will indulge me in this one folly I will be very meek -- I will never trouble you
I will be very meek after that
Be quiet, and hear what I tell you, I will never forgive you if you present yourself again and make a scene
I will not -- if you will let me have my way -- I promise you not to thrust myself forward again. I have never broken my word to you -- how many have you broken to me? When you gave me the diamonds to wear you were not thinking of having another wife. And I now give them up -- I don't reproach you -- I only ask you to let me give them up in my own way. Have I not borne it well? Everything is to be taken away from me, and when I ask for a straw, a chip -- you deny it me
I will not bear to have it denied me
We are going to Ryelands then
They shall be delivered to her there
Very well, I am going
Forgive me; I will never vex you again
It is only I who have to forgive
You had better keep that promise. You have made me feel uncommonly ill with your folly
Poor thing
Light a cigar
A wild dedication of yourselves To unpath'd waters, undreamed shores
Oh, child, men's men: gentle or simple, they're much of a muchness. I've heard my mother say Squire Pelton used to take his dogs and a long whip into his wife's room, and flog 'em there to frighten her; and my mother was lady's- maid there at the very time
That's unlucky talk for a wedding, Mrs. Girdle
A quarrel may end wi' the whip, but it begins wi' the tongue, and it's the women have got the most o' that
The Lord gave it 'em to use, I suppose
_He_ never meant you to have it all your own way
By what I can make out from the gentleman as attends to the grooming at Offendene
this Mr. Grandcourt has wonderful little tongue. Everything must be done dummy-like without his ordering
Then he's the more whip, I doubt
_She's_ got tongue enough, I warrant her. See, there they come out together
What wonderful long corners she's got to her eyes
She makes you feel comical when she looks at you
Thank God you bear it so well, my darling
Why, you might have said that, if I had been going to Mrs. Mompert's, you dear, sad, incorrigible mamma
Here am I -- Mrs. Grandcourt! what else would you have me, but what I am sure to be? You know you were ready to die with vexation when you thought that I would not be Mrs. Grandcourt
Hush, hush, my child, for heaven's sake
How can I help feeling it when I am parting from you. But I can bear anything gladly if you are happy
Not gladly, mamma, no
Willingly you would bear it, but always sorrowfully. Sorrowing is your sauce; you can take nothing without it
And you shall sorrow over my having everything at my beck --- and enjoying everything glorious -- splendid houses -- and horses -- and diamonds, I shall have diamonds -- and going to court -- and being Lady Certainly -- and Lady Perhaps -- and grand here -- and tantivy there -- and always loving you better than anybody else in the world
My sweet child!-- But I shall not be jealous if you love your husband better; and he will expect to be first
Rather a ridiculous expectation. However, I don't mean to treat him ill, unless he deserves it
I wish you were going with me, mamma
Good-bye; God bless you; we shall see you again before long
Let us be thankful, Fanny. She is in a position well suited to her, and beyond what I should have dared to hope for. And few women can have been chosen more entirely for their own sake. You should feel yourself a happy mother
somebody
Here we are at home
These are our dens
You will like to be quiet here till dinner. We shall dine early
Will you tell Hudson when she has put out my dress to leave everything? I shall not want her again, unless I ring
Here is a packet, madam, which I was ordered to give into nobody's hands but yours, when you were alone. The person who brought it said it was a present particularly ordered by Mr. Grandcourt; but he was not to know of its arrival till he saw you wear it. Excuse me, madam; I felt it right to obey orders
And what did you think of the future bride on a nearer survey
I thought better of her than I did in Leubronn. Roulette was not a good setting for her; it brought out something of the demon. At Dinlow she seemed much more womanly and attractive -- less hard and self-possessed. I thought her mouth and eyes had quite a different expression
Don't flirt with her too much, Dan
If you make Grandcourt savage when they come to the Abbey at Christmas, it will interfere with my affairs
I can stay in town, sir
No, no. Lady Mallinger and the children can't do without you at Christmas. Only don't make mischief -- unless you can get up a duel, and manage to shoot Grandcourt, which might be worth a little inconvenience
I don't think you ever saw me flirt
Oh, haven't I, though
You are always looking tenderly at the women, and talking to them in a Jesuitical way. You are a dangerous young fellow -- a kind of Lovelace who will make the Clarissas run after you instead of you running after them
We are getting fonder of her every day
At breakfast-time we all look toward the door with expectation to see her come in; and we watch her and listen to her as if she were a native from a new country. I have not heard a word from her lips that gives me a doubt about her. She is quite contented and full of gratitude. My daughters are learning from her, and they hope to get her other pupils; for she is anxious not to eat the bread of idleness, but to work, like my girls. Mab says our life has become like a fairy tale, and all she is afraid of is that Mirah will turn into a nightingale again and fly away from us. Her voice is just perfect: not loud and strong, but searching and melting, like the thoughts of what has been. That is the way old people like me feel a beautiful voice
Excuse me, Mirah, but _does_ it seem quite right to you that the women should sit behind rails in a gallery apart
Yes, I never thought of anything else
And you like better to see the men with their hats on
Oh, yes. I like what I have always seen there, because it brings back to me the same feelings -- the feelings I would not part with for anything else in the world
She says herself she is a very bad Jewess, and does not half know her people's religion
Perhaps it would gradually melt away from her, and she would pass into Christianity like the rest of the world, if she got to love us very much, and never found her mother. It is so strange to be of the Jews' religion now
Oh, oh, oh
I wish I were not such a hideous Christian. How can an ugly Christian, who is always dropping her work, convert a beautiful Jewess, who has not a fault
It may be wicked of me
but I cannot help wishing that her mother may not be found. There might be something unpleasant
I don't think it, my dear
and a dead mother is worth more that a living one
Well, and so she may be, little mother
but we would rather hold you cheaper, and have you alive
nicht so leicht zu bekommen
Happy the eye which saw all these things; but verily to hear only of them afflicts our soul. Happy the eye that saw our temple and the joy of our congregation; but verily to hear only of them afflicts our soul. Happy the eye that saw the fingers when tuning every kind of song; but verily to hear only of them afflicts our soul
Excuse me, young gentleman -- allow me -- what is your parentage -- your mother's family -- her maiden name
I am an Englishman
peace on earth and good will to men
See how different I am from the miserable creature by the river! all because you found me and brought me to the very best
It was my good chance to find you
Any other man would have been glad to do what I did
That is not the right way to be thinking about it
I think of what really was. It was you, and not another, who found me and were good to me
I agree with Mirah
Saint Anybody is a bad saint to pray to
Besides, Anybody could not have brought me to you
And I would rather be with you than with any one else in the world except my mother. I wonder if ever a poor little bird, that was lost and could not fly, was taken and put into a warm nest where was a mother and sisters who took to it so that everything came naturally, as if it had been always there. I hardly thought before that the world could ever be as happy and without fear as it is to me now
sometimes I am a _little_ afraid
What is it you are afraid of
That when I am turning at the corner of a street I may meet my father. It seems dreadful that I should be afraid of meeting him. That is my only sorrow
It is surely not very probable
Would it be a great grief to you now if you were never to meet your mother
I want her to know that I have always loved her, and if she is alive I want to comfort her. She may be dead. If she were I should long to know where she was buried; and to know whether my brother lives, so that we can remember her together. But I will try not to grieve. I have thought much for so many years of her being dead. And I shall have her with me in my mind, as I have always had. We can never be really parted. I think I have never sinned against her. I have always tried not to do what would hurt her. Only, she might be sorry that I was not a good Jewess
In what way are you not a good Jewess
I am ignorant, and we never observed the laws, but lived among Christians just as they did. But I have heard my father laugh at the strictness of the Jews about their food and all customs, and their not liking Christians. I think my mother was strict; but she could never want me not to like those who are better to me than any of my own people I have ever known. I think I could obey in other things that she wished but not in that. It is so much easier to me to share in love than in hatred. I remember a play I read in German -- since I have been here it has come into my mind -- where the heroine says something like that
Antigone
Ah, you know it. But I do not believe that my mother would wish me not to love my best friends. She would be grateful to them
Oh, if we ever do meet and know each other as we are now, so that I could tell what would comfort her -- I should be so full of blessedness my soul would know no want but to love her
God bless you, child
It is curious that Mirah, who remembers her mother so well it is as if she saw her, cannot recall her brother the least bit -- except the feeling of having been carried by him when she was tired, and of his being near her when she was in her mother's lap. It must be that he was rarely at home. He was already grown up. It is a pity her brother should be quite a stranger to her
He is good; I feel sure Ezra is good
He loved my mother -- he would take care of her. I remember more of him than that. I remember my mother's voice once calling, 'Ezra!' and then his answering from a distance 'Mother
and then he came close to us. I feel sure he is good. I have always taken comfort from that
Is it not wonderful how I remember the voices better than anything else? I think they must go deeper into us than other things. I have often fancied heaven might be made of voices
Like your singing -- yes
Ma, do ask Mirah to sing. Mr. Deronda has not heard her
Would it be disagreeable to you to sing now
Oh, I shall like it
My voice has come back a little with rest
I think I never enjoyed a song more than that
You like my singing? I am so glad
It has been a great pain to me, because it failed in what it was wanted for. But now we think I can use it to get my bread. I have really been taught well. And now I have two pupils, that Miss Meyrick found for me. They pay me nearly two crowns for their two lessons
I think I know some ladies who would find you many pupils after Christmas
You would not mind singing before any one who wished to hear you
Oh no, I want to do something to get money. I could teach reading and speaking, Mrs. Meyrick thinks. But if no one would learn of me, that is difficult
I dare say I should find her poor -- I mean my mother. I should want to get money for her. And I can not always live on charity; though
it is the sweetest charity in all the world
I should think you can get rich
Great ladies will perhaps like you to teach their daughters, We shall see. But now do sing again to us
Oh, Mirah, if you would not mind singing the little hymn
It is too childish
It is like lisping
What is the hymn
It is the Hebrew hymn she remembers her mother singing over her when she lay in her cot
I should like very much to hear it
if you think I am worthy to hear what is so sacred
I will sing it if you like
but I don't sing real words -- only here and there a syllable like hers -- the rest is lisping. Do you know Hebrew? because if you do, my singing will seem childish nonsense
It will be quite good Hebrew to me
If I were ever to know the real words, I should still go on in my old way with them
Why not
The lisped syllables are very full of meaning
Yes, indeed
A mother hears something of a lisp in her children's talk to the very last. Their words are not just what everybody else says, though they may be spelled the same. If I were to live till my Hans got old, I should still see the boy in him. A mother's love, I often say, is like a tree that has got all the wood in it, from the very first it made
Is not that the way with friendship, too
We must not let the mothers be too arrogant
It is easier to find an old mother than an old friend. Friendships begin with liking or gratitude -- roots that can be pulled up. Mother's love begins deeper down
Like what you were saying about the influence of voices
I don't think your hymn would have had more expression for me if I had known the words. I went to the synagogue at Frankfort before I came home, and the service impressed me just as much as if I had followed the words -- perhaps more
Oh, was it great to you? Did it go to your heart
I thought none but our people would feel that. I thought it was all shut away like a river in a deep valley, where only heaven saw -- I mean
I understand
But there is not really such a separation -- deeper down, as Mrs. Meyrick says. Our religion is chiefly a Hebrew religion; and since Jews are men, their religious feelings must have much in common with those of other men -- just as their poetry, though in one sense peculiar, has a great deal in common with the poetry of other nations. Still it is to be expected that a Jew would feel the forms of his people's religion more than one of another race -- and yet
that is perhaps not always so
Ah no
I have seen that. I have seen them mock. Is it not like mocking your parents?-- like rejoicing in your parents' shame
Some minds naturally rebel against whatever they were brought up in, and like the opposite; they see the faults in what is nearest to them
But you are not like that
No, I think not
but you know I was not brought up as a Jew
Ah, I am always forgetting
Whichever way we take it, we have to tolerate each other; for if we all went in opposition to our teaching, we must end in difference, just the same
To be sure. We should go on forever in zig-zags
I think it is very weak-minded to make your creed up by the rule of the contrary. Still one may honor one's parents, without following their notions exactly, any more than the exact cut of their clothing. My father was a Scotch Calvinist and my mother was a French Calvinist; I am neither quite Scotch, nor quite French, nor two Calvinists rolled into one, yet I honor my parents' memory
But I could not make myself not a Jewess
even if I changed my belief
No, my dear. But if Jews and Jewesses went on changing their religion, and making no difference between themselves and Christians, there would come a time when there would be no Jews to be seen
Oh, please not to say that
It is the first unkind thing you ever said. I will not begin that. I will never separate myself from my mother's people. I was forced to fly from my father; but if he came back in age and weakness and want, and needed me, should I say, 'This is not my father'? If he had shame, I must share it. It was he who was given to me for my father, and not another. And so it is with my people. I will always be a Jewess. I will love Christians when they are good, like you. But I will always cling to my people. I will always worship with them
I am a Jew
Mirah, Mirah, my dear child, you mistake me
God forbid I should want you to do anything against your conscience. I was only saying what might be if the world went on. But I had better have left the world alone, and not wanted to be over-wise. Forgive me, come! we will not try to take you from anybody you feel has more right to you
I would do anything else for you. I owe you my life
Hush, hush, now
I have been punished enough for wagging my tongue foolishly -- making an almanac for the Millennium, as my husband used to say
But everything in the world must come to an end some time. We must bear to think of that
That 'prospect of everything coming to an end will not guide us far in practice. Mirah's feelings, she tells us, are concerned with what is
I only meant that we must have courage to hear things, else there is hardly anything we can talk about
What motive has a man to live, if not for the pleasure of discourse
Hans is to share my chambers when he comes at Christmas
You have written to Rome about that
How very good and thoughtful of you! You mentioned Mirah, then
Yes, I referred to her. I concluded he knew everything from you
I must confess my folly. I have not yet written a word about her. I have always been meaning to do it, and yet have ended my letter without saying a word. And I told the girls to leave it to me. However!-- Thank you a thousand times
I have my hands on the reins now
and I will not drop them. I shall go there as little as possible
This one is the better for me
I would as soon hold out my finger to be bitten off as set about spoiling her peace
It was one of the rarest bits of fortune that I should have had friends like the Meyricks to place her with -- generous, delicate friends without any loftiness in their ways, so that her dependence on them is not only safety but happiness. There could be no refuge to replace that, if it were broken up. But what is the use of my taking the vows and settling everything as it should be, if that marplot Hans comes and upsets it all
At least, I will look about
I may find some special Jewish machinery. I will wait till after Christmas
No man
may turn the bones of his father and mother into spoons
Why not
Good day, sir
good day
Confound it, Dan! why don't you make an opportunity of saying these things in public? You're wrong, you know. You won't succeed. You've got the massive sentiment -- the heavy artillery of the country against you. But it's all the better ground for a young man to display himself on. When I was your age, I should have taken it. And it would be quite as well for you to be in opposition to me here and there. It would throw you more into relief. If you would seize an occasion of this sort to make an impression, you might be in Parliament in no time. And you know that would gratify me
I am sorry not to do what would gratify you, sir
But I cannot persuade myself to look at politics as a profession
Why not? if a man is not born into public life by his position in the country, there's no way for him but to embrace it by his own efforts. The business of the country must be done -- her Majesty's Government carried on, as the old Duke said. And it never could be, my boy, if everybody looked at politics as if they were prophecy, and demanded an inspired vocation. If you are to get into Parliament, it won't do to sit still and wait for a call either from heaven or constituents
I don't want to make a living out of opinions
especially out of borrowed opinions. Not that I mean to blame other men. I dare say many better fellows than I don't mind getting on to a platform to praise themselves, and giving their word of honor for a party
I'll tell you what, Dan
a man who sets his face against every sort of humbug is simply a three-cornered, impracticable fellow. There's a bad style of humbug, but there is also a good style -- one that oils the wheels and makes progress possible. If you are to rule men, you must rule them through their own ideas; and I agree with the Archbishop at Naples who had a St. Januarius procession against the plague. It's no use having an Order in Council against popular shallowness. There is no action possible without a little acting
One may be obliged to give way to an occasional necessity
But it is one thing to say, 'In this particular case I am forced to put on this foolscap and grin,' and another to buy a pocket foolscap and practice myself in grinning. I can't see any real public expediency that does not keep an ideal before it which makes a limit of deviation from the direct path. But if I were to set up for a public man I might mistake my success for public expediency
What is the price of this book
There is no mark, and Mr. Ram is not in now. I am keeping the shop while he is gone to dinner. What are you disposed to give for it
Don't you know how much it is worth
Not its market-price. May I ask have you read it
No. I have read an account of it, which makes me want to buy it
You are a man of learning -- you are interested in Jewish history
I am certainly interested in Jewish history
You are perhaps of our race
No
I believe Mr. Ram will be satisfied with half-a-crown, sir
good-morning
Mother! Mother
Coming, sir -- coming directly
How can I serve you, sir
I should like to look at the silver clasps in the window
the larger ones, please, in the corner there
I'll reach 'em, mother; I'll reach 'em
Mother's too proud: she wants to do everything herself. That's why I called her to wait on you, sir. When there's a particular gentleman customer, sir, I daren't do any other than call her. But I can't let her do herself mischief with stretching
This boy will be at his jokes, but you see he's the best son in the world
They are only three guineas, sir
First-rate workmanship, sir -- worth twice the money; only I get 'em a bargain from Cologne
Addy
Addy
What is your name, sirrah
Jacob Alexander Cohen
You are not named after your father, then
No, after my grandfather; he sells knives and razors and scissors -- my grandfather does
He gave me this knife
Is not that a dangerous plaything
_He_'ll never hurt himself, bless you
Have _you_ got a knife
Yes. Do you want to see it
Mine's the best
You won't find Jacob choosing the worst
Are these the only grandchildren you have
All. This is my only son
And you have no daughter
I think you're a first-rate gentleman in the city, sir, if I may be allowed to guess
No
I have nothing to do with the city
That's a bad job. I thought you might be the young principal of a first- rate firm
But you understand silver-work, I see
A little
To tell you the truth
my errand is not so much to buy as to borrow. I dare say you go into rather heavy transactions occasionally
Well, sir, I've accommodated gentlemen of distinction -- I'm proud to say it. I wouldn't exchange my business with any in the world. There's none more honorable, nor more charitable, nor more necessary for all classes, from the good lady who wants a little of the ready for the baker, to a gentleman like yourself, sir, who may want it for amusement. I like my business, I like my street, and I like my shop. I wouldn't have it a door further down. And I wouldn't be without a pawn-shop, sir, to be the Lord Mayor. It puts you in connection with the world at large. I say it's like the government revenue -- it embraces the brass as well as the gold of the country. And a man who doesn't get money, sir, can't accommodate. Now, what can I do for _you_, sir
I have a fine diamond ring to offer as security -- not with me at this moment, unfortunately, for I am not in the habit of wearing it. But I will come again this evening and bring it with me. Fifty pounds at once would be a convenience to me
Well, you know, this evening is the Sabbath, young gentleman
and I go to the _Shool_. The shop will be closed. But accommodation is a work of charity; if you can't get here before, and are any ways pressed -- why, I'll look at your diamond. You're perhaps from the West End -- a longish drive
Yes; and your Sabbath begins early at this season. I could be here by five -- will that do
You are coming again. Have you got any more knives at home
I think I have one
Has it two blades and a hook -- and a white handle like that
I dare say it has
Do you like a cork-screw
Yes
Bring your knife, then, and we'll shwop
Adelaide Rebekah is her name
Speak to the gentleman, lovey
Shlav'm Shabbes fyock on
Her Sabbath frock, she means
She'll have her Sabbath frock on this evening
And will you let me see you in it, Adelaide
Say yes, lovey -- yes, if you please, sir
And will you give me a kiss this evening
You see there's somebody will be disappointed if you don't come this evening, sir. You won't mind sitting down in our family place and waiting a bit for me, if I'm not in when you come, sir? I'll stretch a point to accommodate a gent of your sort. Bring the diamond, and I'll see what I can do for you
Er ist geheissen Israel. Ihn hat verwandelt Hexenspruch in elnen Hund. Aber jeden Freitag Abend, In der Daemmrungstunde, ploetzlich Weicht der Zauber, und der Hund Wird aufs Neu' ein menschlich Wesen
Is that the sort of thing you want, Jacob
Why do you like a hook better than a cork-screw
Caush I can get hold of things with a hook. A corkscrew won't go into anything but corks. But it's better for you, you can draw corks
You agree to change, then
What else have you got in your pockets
Hush, hush, Jacob, love
I think I must not tell you that. Our business was with the knives
I'll shwop
Well, sir, you found your welcome in my family, I think
And you've been punctual. Nothing like a little stress here
It's good for us all in our turn. I've felt it when I've had to make up payments. I began to fit every sort of box. It's bracing to the mind. Now then! let us see, let us see
That is the ring I spoke of
I believe it cost a hundred pounds. It will be a sufficient pledge to you for fifty, I think. I shall probably redeem it in a month or so
Good, good. We'll talk of it after our meal. Perhaps you'll join us, if you've no objection. Me and my wife'll feel honored, and so will mother; won't you, mother
Mordecai
I dare say you know all about it better than we do, sir
Our baby is named _Eu_genie Esther
It's wonderful how the Emperor's like a cousin of mine in the face
it struck me like lightning when I caught sight of him. I couldn't have thought it
Mother, and me went to see the Emperor and Empress at the Crystal Palace
I had a fine piece of work to take care of, mother; she might have been squeezed flat -- though she was pretty near as lusty then as she is now. I said if I had a hundred mothers I'd never take one of 'em to see the Emperor and Empress at the Crystal Palace again; and you may think a man can't afford it when he's got but one mother -- not if he'd ever so big an insurance on her
Your mother has been a widow a long while, perhaps
That has made your care for her the more needful
Ay, ay, it's a good many _yore-zeit_ since I had to manage for her and myself
I went early to it. It's that makes you a sharp knife
What does -- what makes a sharp knife, father
Having your nose put on the grindstone
What does that mean -- putting my nose to the grindstone
It means that you are to bear being hurt without making a noise
I shan't though
I fancy that is the right quarter for learning
You have been a great student, I imagine
I have studied
And you?-- You know German by the book you were buying
Yes, I have studied in Germany. Are you generally engaged in bookselling
No; I only go to Mr. Ram's shop every day to keep it while he goes to meals
Perhaps you know Hebrew
I am sorry to say, not at all
I've had something else to do than to get book-learning
I've had to make myself knowing about useful things. I know stones well
I'm not afraid of taking that ring of yours at my own valuation. But now
what do you want for it
Fifty or sixty pounds
Couldn't do you that. Happy to oblige, but couldn't go that lengths. Forty pound -- say forty -- I'll let you have forty on it
Very well, I shall redeem it in a month or so
Good. I'll make you out the ticket by-and-by
That seems to be rather a remarkable man
Does he belong to your family
No, no
Charity! charity! he worked for me, and when he got weaker and weaker I took him in. He's an incumbrance; but he brings a blessing down, and he teaches the boy. Besides, he does the repairing at the watches and jewelry
accommodation
cousin
I fancy there are some natures one could see growing or degenerating every day, if one watched them
I suppose some of us go on faster than others: and I am sure she is a creature who keeps strong traces of anything that has once impressed her. That little affair of the necklace, and the idea that somebody thought her gambling wrong, had evidently bitten into her. But such impressibility leads both ways: it may drive one to desperation as soon as to anything better. And whatever fascinations Grandcourt may have for capricious tastes -- good heavens! who can believe that he would call out the tender affections in daily companionship? One might be tempted to horsewhip him for the sake of getting some show of passion into his face and speech. I'm afraid she married him out of ambition -- to escape poverty. But why did she run out of his way at first? The poverty came after, though. Poor thing! she may have been urged into it. How can one feel anything else than pity for a young creature like that -- full of unused life -- ignorantly rash -- hanging all her blind expectations on that remnant of a human being
Men who have seen a good deal of life don't always end by choosing their wives so well. He has had rather an anecdotic history -- gone rather deep into pleasures, I fancy, lazy as he is. But, of course, you know all about him
No, really
I know little more of him than that he is Sir Hugo's nephew
By George, I think she's handsomer, if anything
Deronda, you will like to hear what Mrs. Grandcourt tells me about your favorite Klesmer
The Arrowpoints have condoned the marriage, and he is spending the Christmas with his bride at Quetcham
I suppose he will be glad of it for the sake of his wife, else I dare say he would not have minded keeping at a distance
It's a sort of troubadour story
I'm glad to find a little romance left among us. I think our young people now are getting too worldly wise
It shows the Arrowpoints' good sense, however, to have adopted the affair, after the fuss in the paper
And disowning your own child because of a _mesalliance_ is something like disowning your one eye: everybody knows it's yours, and you have no other to make an appearance with
As to _mesalliance_, there's no blood on any side
Old Admiral Arrowpoint was one of Nelson's men, you know -- a doctor's son. And we all know how the mother's money came
If they were any _mesalliance_ in the case, I should say it was on Klesmer's side
Ah, you think it is a case of the immortal marrying the mortal. What is your opinion
I have no doubt that Herr Klesmer thinks himself immortal. But I dare say his wife will burn as much incense before him as he requires
Don't you approve of a wife burning incense before her husband
Oh, yes
if it were only to make others believe in him
When Herr Klesmer admires his own genius, it will take off some of the absurdity if his wife says Amen
Klesmer is no favorite of yours, I see
I think very highly of him, I assure you
His genius is quite above my judgment, and I know him to be exceedingly generous
Is not this a beautiful room? It was part of the refectory of the Abbey. There was a division made by those pillars and the three arches, and afterward they were built up. Else it was half as large again originally. There used to be rows of Benedictines sitting where we are sitting. Suppose we were suddenly to see the lights burning low and the ghosts of the old monks rising behind all our chairs
Please don't
It is very nice to come after ancestors and monks, but they should know their places and keep underground. I should be rather frightened to go about this house all alone. I suppose the old generations must be angry with us because we have altered things so much
Oh, the ghosts must be of all political parties
And those fellows who wanted to change things while they lived and couldn't do it must be on our side. But if you would not like to go over the house alone, you will like to go in company, I hope. You and Grandcourt ought to see it all. And we will ask Deronda to go found with us. He is more learned about it than I am
You don't know how much I am afraid of Mr. Deronda
How's that? Because you think him too learned
No. It is ever since I first saw him at Leubronn. Because when he came to look on at the roulette-table, I began to lose. He cast an evil eye on my play. He didn't approve it. He has told me so. And now whatever I do before him, I am afraid he will cast an evil eye upon it
Gad! I'm rather afraid of him myself when he doesn't approve
I don't think ladies generally object to have his eyes upon them
I object to any eyes that are critical
Are there many of these old rooms left in the Abbey
Not many. There is a fine cloistered court with a long gallery above it. But the finest bit of all is turned into stables. It is part of the old church. When I improved the place I made the most of every other bit; but it was out of my reach to change the stables, so the horses have the benefit of the fine old choir. You must go and see it
I shall like to see the horses as well as the building
Oh, I have no stud to speak of. Grandcourt will look with contempt at my horses
I've given up hunting, and go on in a jog-trot way, as becomes an old gentlemen with daughters. The fact is, I went in for doing too much at this place. We all lived at Diplow for two years while the alterations were going on: Do you like Diplow
Not particularly
Ah! it will not do after Ryelands
Grandcourt, I know, took it for the sake of the hunting. But he found something so much better there
that he might well prefer it to any other place in the world
It has one attraction for me
that it is within reach of Offendene
I understand that
Will you not join in the music
I join in it by listening. I am fond of music
Are you not a musician
I have given a great deal of time to music. But I have not talent enough to make it worth while. I shall never sing again
But if you are fond of music, it will always be worth while in private, for your own delight. I make it a virtue to be content with my middlingness
it is always pardonable, so that one does not ask others to take it for superiority
I cannot imitate you
To be middling with me is another phrase for being dull. And the worst fault I have to find with the world is, that it is dull. Do you know, I am going to justify gambling in spite of you. It is a refuge from dullness
I don't admit the justification
I think what we call the dullness of things is a disease in ourselves. Else how can any one find an intense interest in life? And many do
Ah, I see! The fault I find in the world is my own fault
Do _you_ never find fault with the world or with others
Oh, yes. When I am in a grumbling mood
And hate people? Confess you hate them when they stand in your way -- when their gain is your loss? That is your own phrase, you know
We are often standing in each other's way when we can't help it. I think it is stupid to hate people on that ground
But if they injure you and could have helped it
Why, then, after all, I prefer my place to theirs
There I believe you are right
What is the use of it all
I can't do anything to help her -- nobody can, if she has found out her mistake already. And it seems to me that she has a dreary lack of the ideas that might help her. Strange and piteous to human flesh like that might be, wrapped round with fine raiment, her ears pierced for gems, her head held loftily, her mouth all smiling pretence, the poor soul within her sitting in sick distaste of all things! But what do I know of her? There may be a demon in her to match the worst husband, for what I can tell. She was clearly an ill-educated, worldly girl: perhaps she is a coquette
coquette
The thaw has gone on like magic, and it's so pleasant out of doors just now -- shall we go and see the stables and the other odd bits about the place
Yes, pray
You will like to see the stables, Henleigh
Uncommonly
Who else is inclined to make the tour of the house and premises
The ladies must muffle themselves; there is only just about time to do it well before sunset. You will go, Dan, won't you
Oh, yes
All meet in the library, then, when they are ready -- say in half an hour
Oh, you are there already
I must go and put on my coat
A -- you look rather ill
Do you feel equal to the walk
Yes, I shall like it
We could put off going over the house, you know, and only go out of doors
Oh, dear no
let us put off nothing. I want a long walk
Well, now, to my mind
that is more interesting standing as it is in the middle of what is frankly four centuries later, than if the whole front had been dressed up in a pretense of the thirteenth century. Additions ought to smack of the time when they are made and carry the stamp of their period. I wouldn't destroy any old bits, but that notion of reproducing the old is a mistake, I think. At least, if a man likes to do it he must pay for his whistle. Besides, where are you to stop along that road -- making loopholes where you don't want to peep, and so on? You may as well ask me to wear out the stones with kneeling; eh, Grandcourt
A confounded nuisance
I hate fellows wanting to howl litanies -- acting the greatest bores that have ever existed
Well, yes, that's what their romanticism must come to
that is if they carry it out logically
I think that way of arguing against a course because it may be ridden down to an absurdity would soon bring life to a standstill
It is not the logic of human action, but of a roasting-jack, that must go on to the last turn when it has been once wound up. We can do nothing safely without some judgment as to where we are to stop
I find the rule of the pocket the best guide
And as for most of your new-old building, you had need to hire men to scratch and chip it all over artistically to give it an elderly-looking surface; which at the present rate of labor would not answer
Do you want to keep up the old fashions, then, Mr. Deronda
Some of them. I don't see why we should not use our choice there as we do elsewhere -- or why either age or novelty by itself is an argument for or against. To delight in doing things because our fathers did them is good if it shuts out nothing better; it enlarges the range of affection -- and affection is the broadest basis of good in life
Do you think so
I should have thought you cared most about ideas, knowledge, wisdom, and all that
But to care about _them_ is a sort of affection
Call it attachment; interest, willing to bear a great deal for the sake of being with them and saving them from injury. Of course, it makes a difference if the objects of interest are human beings; but generally in all deep affections the objects are a mixture -- half persons and half ideas -- sentiments and affections flow in together
I wonder whether I understand that
I believe I am not very affectionate; perhaps you mean to tell me, that is the reason why I don't see much good in life
No, I did _not_ mean to tell you that; but I admit that I should think it true if I believed what you say of yourself
I never can get Mr. Deronda to pay me a compliment
I have quite a curiosity to see whether a little flattery can be extracted from him
Ah
the fact is, it is useless to flatter a bride. We give it up in despair. She has been so fed on sweet speeches that every thing we say seems tasteless
Quite true
Mr. Grandcourt won me by neatly-turned compliments. If there had been one word out of place it would have been fatal
Do you hear that
Yes
It's a deucedly hard thing to keep up, though
Pray don't ask us to see two kitchens at once. It makes the heat double. I must really go out of it
I wondered how long you meant to stay in that damned place
It was certainly rather too warm in one's wraps
Oh, this is glorious
This _is_ glorious! Only I wish there were a horse in every one of the boxes. I would ten times rather have these stables than those at Diplow
Do you take off your hat to horses
Why not
The fact is, stables dive deeper and deeper into the pocket nowadays, and I am very glad to have got rid of that _demangeaison_
What is a man to do, though
He must ride. I don't see what else there is to do. And I don't call it riding to sit astride a set of brutes with every deformity under the sun
Now we are going to see the cloister -- the finest bit of all -- in perfect preservation; the monks might have been walking there yesterday
You had better take my arm
It's a great bore being dragged about in this way, and no cigar
I thought you would like it
Like it!-- one eternal chatter. And encouraging those ugly girls -- inviting one to meet such monsters. How that _fat_ Deronda can bear looking at her
Why do you call him _fat_? Do you object to him so much
Object? no. What do I care about his being a _fat_? It's of no consequence to me. I'll invite him to Diplow again if you like
I don't think he would come. He is too clever and learned to care about _us_
I never saw that make much difference in a man. Either he is a gentleman, or he is not
I wonder whether one oftener learns to love real objects through their representations, or the representations through the real objects
When I was a little fellow these capitals taught me to observe and delight in the structure of leaves
I suppose you can see every line of them with your eyes shut
Yes. I was always repeating them, because for a good many years this court stood for me as my only image of a convent, and whenever I read of monks and monasteries, this was my scenery for them
You must love this place very much
So many homes are like twenty others. But this is unique, and you seem to know every cranny of it. I dare say you could never love another home so well
Oh, I carry it with me
To most men their early home is no more than a memory of their early years, and I'm not sure but they have the best of it. The image is never marred. There's no disappointment in memory, and one's exaggerations are always on the good side
Don't ask me -- it was my feeling about everything -- it was the sudden change from home
I am the grave in which your chance of happiness is buried as well as mine. You had your warning. You have chosen to injure me and my children. He had meant to marry me. He would have married me at last, if you had not broken your word. You will have your punishment. I desire it with all my soul. Will you give him this letter to set him against me and ruin us more -- me and my children? Shall you like to stand before your husband with these diamonds on you, and these words of mine in his thoughts and yours? Will he think you have any right to complain when he has made you miserable? You took him with your eyes open. The willing wrong you have done me will be your curse
Am I altogether as you like
No
You are not in any way what I like
Oh, mercy
How am I to alter myself
Put on the diamonds
Oh, please not. I don't think diamonds suit me
What you think has nothing to do with it
I wish you to wear the diamonds
Pray excuse me; I like these emeralds
Oblige me by telling me your reason for not wearing the diamonds when I desire it
He delights in making the dogs and horses quail: that is half his pleasure in calling them his
It will come to be so with me; and I shall quail. What else is there for me? I will not say to the world, 'Pity me
You want some one to fasten them
What a privilege this is, to have robbed another woman of
What makes you so cold
Pray put plenty of furs on. I hate to see a woman come into a room looking frozen. If you are to appear as a bride at all, appear decently
Oh, yes, mamma, quite happy
Not at all disappointed in Ryelands. It is a much finer place than this -- larger in every way. But don't you want some more money
Did you not know that Mr. Grandcourt left me a letter on your wedding- day? I am to have eight hundred a year. He wishes me to keep Offendene for the present, while you are at Diplow. But if there were some pretty cottage near the park at Ryelands we might live there without much expense, and I should have you most of the year, perhaps
We must leave that to Mr. Grandcourt, mamma
Oh, certainly. It is exceedingly handsome of him to say that he will pay the rent for Offendene till June. And we can go on very well -- without any man-servant except Crane, just for out-of-doors. Our good Merry will stay with us and help me to manage everything. It is natural that Mr. Grandcourt should wish me to live in a good style of house in your neighborhood, and I cannot decline. So he said nothing about it to you
No; he wished me to hear it from you, I suppose
It is very good of you to provide for mamma. You took a great deal on yourself in marrying a girl who had nothing but relations belonging to her
Of course I was not going to let her live like a gamekeeper's mother
At least he is not mean about money
and mamma is the better off for my marriage
manage differently from mamma
I wish he could know everything about me without my telling him
I wish he knew that I am not so contemptible as he thinks me; that I am in deep trouble, and want to be something better if I could
Rien ne pese tant qu'un secret Le porter loin est difficile aux dames: Et je scais mesme sur ce fait Bon nombre d'hommes qui sont femmes
What a washed-out piece of cambric Grandcourt is! But if he is a favorite of yours, I withdraw the remark
Not the least in the world
I thought not. One wonders how he came to have a great passion again; and he must have had -- to marry in this way. Though Lush, his old chum, hints that he married this girl out of obstinacy. By George! it was a very accountable obstinacy. A man might make up his mind to marry her without the stimulus of contradiction. But he must have made himself a pretty large drain of money, eh
I know nothing of his affairs
What! not of the other establishment he keeps up
Diplow? Of course. He took that of Sir Hugo. But merely for the year
No, no; not Diplow: Gadsmere. Sir Hugo knows, I'll answer for it
Lush would not altogether own to it, of course. He's a confident and go- between of Grandcourt's. But I have it on the best authority. The fact is, there's another lady with four children at Gadsmere. She has had the upper hand of him these ten years and more, and by what I can understand has it still -- left her husband for him, and used to travel with him everywhere. Her husband's dead now; I found a fellow who was in the same regiment with him, and knew this Mrs. Glasher before she took wing. A fiery dark-eyed woman -- a noted beauty at that time -- he thought she was dead. They say she has Grandcourt under her thumb still, and it's a wonder he didn't marry her, for there's a very fine boy, and I understand Grandcourt can do absolutely as he pleases with the estates. Lush told me as much as that
What right had he to marry this girl
_She_ can know nothing of it
Could she have known anything of it
It's rather a piquant picture
Grandcourt between two fiery women. For depend upon it this light-haired one has plenty of devil in her. I formed that opinion of her at Leubronn. It's a sort of Medea and Creuesa business. Fancy the two meeting! Grandcourt is a new kind of Jason: I wonder what sort of a part he'll make of it. It's a dog's part at best. I think I hear Ristori now, saying, 'Jasone! Jasone!' These fine women generally get hold of a stick
Grandcourt can bite, I fancy
He is no stick
No, no; I meant Jason. I can't quite make out Grandcourt. But he's a keen fellow enough -- uncommonly well built too. And if he comes into all this property, the estates will bear dividing. This girl, whose friends had come to beggary, I understand, may think herself lucky to get him. I don't want to be hard on a man because he gets involved in an affair of that sort. But he might make himself more agreeable. I was telling him a capital story last night, and he got up and walked away in the middle. I felt inclined to kick him. Do you suppose that is inattention or insolence, now
Oh, a mixture. He generally observes the forms: but he doesn't listen much
I should think there must be some exaggeration or inaccuracy in what you have heard about this lady at Gadsmere
Not a bit, depend upon it; it has all lain snug of late years. People have forgotten all about it. But there the nest is, and the birds are in it. And I know Grandcourt goes there. I have good evidence that he goes there. However, that's nobody's business but his own. The affair has sunk below the surface
I wonder you could have learned so much about it
Oh, there are plenty of people who knew all about it; but such stories get packed away like old letters. They interest me. I like to know the manners of my time -- contemporary gossip, not antediluvian. These Dryasdust fellows get a reputation by raking up some small scandal about Semiramis or Nitocris, and then we have a thousand and one poems written upon it by all the warblers big and little. But I don't care a straw about the _faux pas_ of the mummies. You do, though. You are one of the historical men -- more interested in a lady when she's got a rag face and skeleton toes peeping out. Does that flatter your imagination
Well, if she had any woes in her love, one has the satisfaction of knowing that she's well out of them
Ah, you are thinking of the Medea, I see
Shall I be acceptable
Perhaps I had better go back and look for the others. I suppose they are in the billiard-room
No, no; stay where you are
They were all getting tired of me; let us hear what _you_ have to say
That is rather an embarrassing appeal
I think I had better take the opportunity of mentioning our songstress
unless you have done so
Oh, the little Jewess
No, I have not mentioned her. It never entered my head that any one here wanted singing lessons
All ladies know some one else who wants singing lessons
I have happened to find an exquisite singer
She is living with some ladies who are friends of mine -- the mother and sisters of a man who was my chum at Cambridge. She was on the stage at Vienna; but she wants to leave that life, and maintain herself by teaching
There are swarms of those people, aren't there
Are her lessons to be very cheap or very expensive? Those are the two baits I know of
There is another bait for those who hear her
Her singing is something quite exceptional, I think. She has had such first-rate teaching -- or rather first-rate instinct with her teaching -- that you might imagine her singing all came by nature
Why did she leave the stage, then
I'm too old to believe in first-rate people giving up first-rate chances
Her voice was too weak. It is a delicious voice for a room. You who put up with my singing of Schubert would be enchanted with hers
And I imagine she would not object to sing at private parties or concerts. Her voice is quite equal to that
I am to have her in my drawing-room when we go up to town
You shall hear her then. I have not heard her myself yet; but I trust Daniel's recommendation. I mean my girls to have lessons of her
Is it a charitable affair
I can't bear charitable music
It is a charity to those who want to have a good model of feminine singing
I think everybody who has ears would benefit by a little improvement on the ordinary style. If you heard Miss Lapidoth
perhaps you would revoke your resolution to give up singing
I should rather think my resolution would be confirmed
I don't feel able to follow your advice of enjoying my own middlingness
For my part
people who do anything finely always inspirit me to try. I don't mean that they make me believe I can do it as well. But they make the thing, whatever it may be, seem worthy to be done. I can bear to think my own music not good for much, but the world would be more dismal if I thought music itself not good for much. Excellence encourages one about life generally; it shows the spiritual wealth of the world
But then, if we can't imitate it, it only makes our own life seem the tamer
That depends on the point of view, I think
We should have a poor life of it if we were reduced for all our pleasure to our own performances. A little private imitation of what is good is a sort of private devotion to it, and most of us ought to practice art only in the light of private study -- preparation to understand and enjoy what the few can do for us. I think Miss Lapidoth is one of the few
She must be a very happy person, don't you think
I don't know
I must hear more of her before I say that
It may have been a bitter disappointment to her that her voice failed her for the stage
I suppose she's past her best, though
On the contrary, she has not reached it
She is barely twenty
And very pretty
And she has very good manners. I'm sorry she's a bigoted Jewess; I should not like it for anything else, but it doesn't matter in singing
Well, since her voice is too weak for her to scream much, I'll tell Lady Clementina to set her on my nine granddaughters
and I hope she'll convince eight of them that they have not voice enough to sing anywhere but at church. My notion is, that many of our girls nowadays want lessons not to sing
I have had my lessons in that
You see Lady Pentreath is on my side
What imposition is Deronda putting on you, ladies -- slipping in among you by himself
Wanting to pass off an obscurity on us as better than any celebrity
a pretty singing Jewess who is to astonish these young people. You and I, who heard Catalani in her prime, are not so easily astonished
Well, you know, a Liberal is bound to think that there have been singers since Catalani's time
Ah, you are younger than I am. I dare say you are one of the men who ran after Alcharisi. But she married off and left you all in the lurch
Yes, yes; it's rather too bad when these great singers marry themselves into silence before they have a crack in their voices. And the husband is a public robber. I remember Leroux saying, 'A man might as well take down a fine peal of church bells and carry them off to the steppes
Are you relenting about the music and looking for something to play or sing
I am not looking for anything, but I _am_ relenting
May I know the reason
I should like to hear Miss Lapidoth and have lessons from her, since you admire her so much,-- that is, of course, when we go to town. I mean lessons in rejoicing at her excellence and my own deficiency
I shall be really glad for you to see and hear her
Is she as perfect in every thing else as in her music
I can't vouch for that exactly. I have not seen enough of her. But I have seen nothing in her that I could wish to be different. She has had an unhappy life. Her troubles began in early childhood, and she has grown up among very painful surroundings. But I think you will say that no advantages could have given her more grace and truer refinement
I wonder what sort of trouble hers were
I have not any very precise knowledge. But I know that she was on the brink of drowning herself in despair
And what hindered her
Some ray or other came -- which made her feel that she ought to live -- that it was good to live
She is full of piety, and seems capable of submitting to anything when it takes the form of duty
Those people are not to be pitied
I have no sympathy with women who are always doing right. I don't believe in their great sufferings
It is true
that the consciousness of having done wrong is something deeper, more bitter. I suppose we faulty creatures can never feel so much for the irreproachable as for those who are bruised in the struggle with their own faults. It is a very ancient story, that of the lost sheep -- but it comes up afresh every day
That is a way of speaking -- it is not acted upon, it is not real
You admire Miss Lapidoth because you think her blameless, perfect. And you know you would despise a woman who had done something you thought very wrong
That would depend entirely upon her own view of what she had done
You would be satisfied if she were very wretched, I suppose
No, not satisfied -- full of sorrow for her. It was not a mere way of speaking. I did not mean to say that the finer nature is not more adorable; I meant that those who would be comparatively uninteresting beforehand may become worthier of sympathy when they do something that awakens in them a keen remorse. Lives are enlarged in different ways. I dare say some would never get their eyes opened if it were not for a violent shock from the consequences of their own actions. And when they are suffering in that way one must care for them more than, for the comfortably self-satisfied
Are you persuading Mrs. Grandcourt to play to us, Dan
I cannot persuade myself
young Grandcourt
I shall stand up for one dance, but I shall choose my partner. Mr. Deronda, you are the youngest man, I mean to dance with you. Nobody is old enough to make a good pair with me. I must have a contrast
Yes; I shall not dance any more. Are you not glad
you might have felt obliged humbly to offer yourself as a partner, and I feel sure you have danced more than you like already
I will not deny that
since you have danced as much as you like
But will you take trouble for me in another way, and fetch me a glass of that fresh water
What is that hideous thing you have got on your wrist
That
it is an old necklace I like to wear. I lost it once, and someone found it for me
It is worth while for you to go and look out at one of the windows on that side. You can see the finest possible moonlight on the stone pillars and carving, and shadows waving across it in the wind
I should like to see it. Will you go
No, Deronda will take you
Will you take my arm and go, while only servants are there
Suppose I had gambled again, and lost the necklace again, what should you have thought of me
Worse than I do now
Then you are mistaken about me. You wanted me not to do that -- not to make my gain out of another's loss in that way -- and I have done a great deal worse
I can't imagine temptations
Perhaps I am able to understand what you mean. At least I understand self-reproach
What should you do if you were like me -- feeling that you were wrong and miserable, and dreading everything to come
That is not to be amended by doing one thing only -- but many
What
I mean there are many thoughts and habits that may help us to bear inevitable sorrow. Multitudes have to bear it
You must tell me then what to think and what to do; else why did you not let me go on doing as I liked and not minding? If I had gone on gambling I might have won again, and I might have got not to care for anything else. You would not let me do that. Why shouldn't I do as I like, and not mind? Other people do
I don't believe you would ever get not to mind
If it were true that baseness and cruelty made an escape from pain, what difference would that make to people who can't be quite base or cruel? Idiots escape some pain; but you can't be an idiot. Some may do wrong to another without remorse; but suppose one does feel remorse? I believe you could never lead an injurious life -- all reckless lives are injurious, pestilential -- without feeling remorse
Then tell me what better I can do
Many things. Look on other lives besides your own. See what their troubles are, and how they are borne. Try to care about something in this vast world besides the gratification of small selfish desires. Try to care for what is best in thought and action -- something that is good apart from the accidents of your own lot
You mean that I am selfish and ignorant
You will not go on being selfish and ignorant
Shall I lead you back
I am ready to go now. Mr. Deronda will excuse us to Lady Mallinger
Certainly
Lord and Lady Pentreath disappeared some time ago
Thanks
Sit down
Oblige me in future by not showing whims like a mad woman in a play
What do you mean
I suppose there is some understanding between you and Deronda about that thing you have on your wrist. If you have anything to say to him, say it. But don't carry on a telegraphing which other people are supposed not to see. It's damnably vulgar
You can know all about the necklace
I don't want to know. Keep to yourself whatever you like
What I care to know I shall know without your telling me. Only you will please to behave as becomes my wife. And not make a spectacle of yourself
Do you object to my talking to Mr. Deronda
I don't care two straws about Deronda, or any other conceited hanger-on. You may talk to him as much as you like. He is not going to take my place. You are my wife. And you will either fill your place properly -- to the world and to me -- or you will go to the devil
I never intended anything but to fill my place properly
You put that thing on your wrist, and hid it from me till you wanted him to see it. Only fools go into that deaf and dumb talk, and think they're secret. You will understand that you are not to compromise yourself. Behave with dignity. That's all I have to say
Shall I ring
The wrong you have done me will be your own curse
Why did you put your fangs into me and not into him
Mr. Deronda
Am I wrong to come in
I thought you were far on your walk
I turned back
Do you intend to go out again? I could join you now, if you would allow me
No; I want to say something, and I can't stay long
I want to tell you that it is really so -- I can't help feeling remorse for having injured others. That was what I meant when I said that I had done worse than gamble again and pawn the necklace again -- something more injurious, as you called it. And I can't alter it. I am punished, but I can't alter it. You said I could do many things. Tell me again. What should you do -- what should you feel if you were in my place
I should feel something of what you feel -- deep sorrow
But what would you try to do
Order my life so as to make any possible amends, and keep away from doing any sort of injury again
But I can't -- I can't; I must go on
I have thrust out others -- I have made my gain out of their loss -- tried to make it -- tried. And I must go on. I can't alter it
That is the bitterest of all -- to wear the yoke of our own wrong-doing. But if you submitted to that as men submit to maiming or life-long incurable disease?-- and made the unalterable wrong a reason for more effort toward a good, that may do something to counterbalance the evil? One who has committed irremediable errors may be scourged by that consciousness into a higher course than is common. There are many examples. Feeling what it is to have spoiled one life may well make us long to save other lives from being spoiled
But you have not wronged any one, or spoiled their lives
It is only others who have wronged _you_
I suppose our keen feeling for ourselves might end in giving us a keen feeling for others, if, when we are suffering acutely, we were to consider that others go through the same sharp experience. That is a sort of remorse before commission. Can't you understand that
I think I do -- now
But you were right -- I _am_ selfish. I have never thought much of any one's feelings, except my mother's. I have not been fond of people. But what can I do
I must get up in the morning and do what every one else does. It is all like a dance set beforehand. I seem to see all that can be -- and I am tired and sick of it. And the world is all confusion to me
You say I am ignorant. But what is the good of trying to know more, unless life were worth more
This good
life _would_ be worth more to you: some real knowledge would give you an interest in the world beyond the small drama of personal desires. It is the curse of your life -- forgive me -- of so many lives, that all passion is spent in that narrow round, for want of ideas and sympathies to make a larger home for it. Is there any single occupation of mind that you care about with passionate delight or even independent interest
I take what you said of music for a small example -- it answers for all larger things -- you will not cultivate it for the sake of a private joy in it. What sort of earth or heaven would hold any spiritual wealth in it for souls pauperized by inaction? If one firmament has no stimulus for our attention and awe, I don't see how four would have it. We should stamp every possible world with the flatness of our own inanity -- which is necessarily impious, without faith or fellowship. The refuge you are needing from personal trouble is the higher, the religious life, which holds an enthusiasm for something more than our own appetites and vanities. The few may find themselves in it simply by an elevation of feeling; but for us who have to struggle for our wisdom, the higher life must be a region in which the affections are clad with knowledge
I will try. I will think
You said affection was the best thing, and I have hardly any -- none about me. If I could, I would have mamma; but that is impossible. Things have changed to me so -- in such a short time. What I used not to like I long for now. I think I am almost getting fond of the old things now they are gone
Take the present suffering as a painful letting in of light
You are conscious of more beyond the round of your own inclinations -- you know more of the way in which your life presses on others, and their life on yours. I don't think you could have escaped the painful process in some form or other
But it is a very cruel form
I am frightened at everything. I am frightened at myself. When my blood is fired I can do daring things -- take any leap; but that makes me frightened at myself
Turn your fear into a safeguard. Keep your dread fixed on the idea of increasing that remorse which is so bitter to you. Fixed meditation may do a great deal toward defining our longing or dread. We are not always in a state of strong emotion, and when we are calm we can use our memories and gradually change the bias of our fear, as we do our tastes. Take your fear as a safeguard. It is like quickness of hearing. It may make consequences passionately present to you. Try to take hold of your sensibility, and use it as if it were a faculty, like vision
Yes, I know; I understand what you mean
But if feelings rose -- there are some feelings -- hatred and anger -- how can I be good when they keep rising? And if there came a moment when I felt stifled and could bear it no longer
I am grieving you. I am ungrateful. You _can_ help me. I will think of everything. I will try. Tell me -- it will not be a pain to you that I have dared to speak of my trouble to you? You began it, you know, when you rebuked me
It will not be a pain to you
Not if it does anything to save you from an evil to come
otherwise, it will be a lasting pain
No -- no -- it shall not be. It may be -- it shall be better with me because I have known you
Has Mrs. Grandcourt been in here
Yes, she has
Where are the others
I believe she left them somewhere in the grounds
I hope you are not playing with fire, Dan -- you understand me
I believe I do, sir
But there is nothing answering to your metaphor -- no fire, and therefore no chance of scorching
So much the better. For, between ourselves, I fancy there may be some hidden gunpowder in that establishment
I knew you would like to see my casts and antiquities
so I didn't scruple to unlade my chests here. But I've found two rooms at Chelsea not many hundred yards from my mother and sisters, and I shall soon be ready to hang out there -- when they've scraped the walls and put in some new lights. That's all I'm waiting for. But you see I don't wait to begin work: you can't conceive what a great fellow I'm going to be. The seed of immortality has sprouted within me
Only a fungoid growth, I dare say -- a growing disease in the lungs
What do you think of them
The full face looks too massive; otherwise the likenesses are good
No, it is not too massive
I have noted that. There is always a little surprise when one passes from the profile to the full face. But I shall enlarge her scale for Berenice. I am making a Berenice series -- look at the sketches along there -- and now I think of it, you are just the model I want for the Agrippa
No, no, I forgot; you don't like sitting for your portrait, confound you! However, I've picked up a capital Titus. There are to be five in the series. The first is Berenice clasping the knees of Gessius Florus and beseeching him to spare her people; I've got that on the easel. Then, this, where she is standing on the Xystus with Agrippa, entreating the people not to injure themselves by resistance
Agrippa's legs will never do
The legs are good realistically
public men are often shaky about the legs --' Their legs, the emblem of their various thought,' as somebody says in the 'Rehearsal
But these are as impossible as the legs of Raphael's Alcibiades
Then they are good ideally
Agrippa's legs were possibly bad; I idealize that and make them impossibly bad. Art, my Eugenius, must intensify. But never mind the legs now: the third sketch in the series is Berenice exulting in the prospects of being Empress of Rome, when the news has come that Vespasian is declared Emperor and her lover Titus his successor
You must put a scroll in her mouth, else people will not understand that. You can't tell that in a picture
It will make them feel their ignorance then -- an excellent aesthetic effect. The fourth is, Titus sending Berenice away from Rome after she has shared his palace for ten years -- both reluctant, both sad -- _invitus invitam_, as Suetonius hath it. I've found a model for the Roman brute
Shall you make Berenice look fifty? She must have been that
No, no; a few mature touches to show the lapse of time. Dark-eyed beauty wears well, hers particularly. But now, here is the fifth: Berenice seated lonely on the ruins of Jerusalem. That is pure imagination. That is what ought to have been -- perhaps was. Now, see how I tell a pathetic negative. Nobody knows what became of her -- that is finely indicated by the series coming to a close. There is no sixth picture
I break off in the Homeric style. The story is chipped off, so to speak, and passes with a ragged edge into nothing -- _le neant_; can anything be more sublime, especially in French? The vulgar would desire to see her corpse and burial -- perhaps her will read and her linen distributed. But now come and look at this on the easel. I have made some way there
That beseeching attitude is really good
You have been very industrious in the Christmas holidays; for I suppose you have taken up the subject since you came to London
No
I made up my mind to the subject before. I take that lucky chance for an augury that I am going to burst on the world as a great painter. I saw a splendid woman in the Trastevere -- the grandest women there are half Jewesses -- and she set me hunting for a fine situation of a Jewess at Rome. Like other men of vast learning, I ended by taking what lay on the surface. I'll show you a sketch of the Trasteverina's head when I can lay my hands on it
I should think she would be a more suitable model for Berenice
Not a bit of it. The model ought to be the most beautiful Jewess in the world, and I have found her
Have you made yourself sure that she would like to figure in that character? I should think no woman would be more abhorrent to her. Does she quite know what you are doing
Certainly. I got her to throw herself precisely into this attitude. Little mother sat for Gessius Florus, and Mirah clasped her knees
I dare say she knows nothing about Berenice's history
Oh, yes, she does -- ladies' edition. Berenice was a fervid patriot, but was beguiled by love and ambition into attaching herself to the arch-enemy of her people. Whence the Nemesis. Mirah takes it as a tragic parable, and cries to think what the penitent Berenice suffered as she wandered back to Jerusalem and sat desolate amidst desolation. That was her own phrase. I couldn't find it in my heart to tell her I invented that part of the story
Show me your Trasteverina
Shall you mind turning over that folio
My studies of heads are all there. But they are in confusion. You will perhaps find her next to a crop-eared undergraduate
These seem to be all Cambridge heads and bits of country. Perhaps I had better begin at the other end
No; you'll find her about the middle. I emptied one folio into another
Is this one of your undergraduates
It's an unusually agreeable face
That! Oh, that's a man named Gascoigne -- Rex Gascoigne. An uncommonly good fellow; his upper lip, too, is good. I coached him before he got his scholarship. He ought to have taken honors last Easter. But he was ill, and has had to stay up another year. I must look him up. I want to know how he's going on
Here she is, I suppose
Ah
too coarse. I was unregenerate then
I dare say my scruples are excessive, Meyrick, but I must ask you to oblige me by giving up this notion
What! my series -- my immortal Berenice series? Think of what you are saying, man -- destroying, as Milton says, not a life but an immortality. Wait before you, answer, that I may deposit the implements of my art and be ready to uproot my hair
Paint as many Berenices as you like, but I wish you could feel with me -- perhaps you will, on reflection -- that you should choose another model
Why
Because she may get into such a position that her face is likely to be recognized. Mrs. Meyrick and I are anxious for her that she should be known as an admirable singer. It is right, and she wishes it, that she should make herself independent. And she has excellent chances. One good introduction is secured already, and I am going to speak to Klesmer. Her face may come to be very well known, and -- well, it is useless to attempt to explain, unless you feel as I do. I believe that if Mirah saw the circumstances clearly, she would strongly object to being exhibited in this way -- to allowing herself to be used as a model for a heroine of this sort
Excuse my laughing, Deronda. You never gave me an advantage over you before. If it had been about anything but my own pictures, I should have swallowed every word because you said it. And so you actually believe that I should get my five pictures hung on the line in a conspicuous position, and carefully studied by the public? Zounds, man! cider-cup and conceit never gave me half such a beautiful dream. My pictures are likely to remain as private as the utmost hypersensitiveness could desire
But even supposing I had a public rushing after my pictures as if they were a railway series including nurses, babies and bonnet-boxes, I can't see any justice in your objection. Every painter worth remembering has painted the face he admired most, as often as he could. It is a part of his soul that goes out into his pictures. He diffuses its influence in that way. He puts what he hates into a caricature. He puts what he adores into some sacred, heroic form. If a man could paint the woman he loves a thousand times as the Stella Marts to put courage into the sailors on board a thousand ships, so much the more honor to her. Isn't that better than painting a piece of staring immodesty and calling it by a worshipful name
Every objection can be answered if you take broad ground enough, Hans: no special question of conduct can be properly settled in that way
I might admit all your generalities, and yet be right in saying you ought not to publish Mirah's face as a model for Berenice. But I give up the question of publicity. I was unreasonable there
Still, even as a private affair, there might be good reasons for your not indulging yourself too much in painting her from the point of view you mention. You must feel that her situation at present is a very delicate one; and until she is in more independence, she should be kept as carefully as a bit of Venetian glass, for fear of shaking her out of the safe place she is lodged in. Are you quite sure of your own discretion? Excuse me, Hans. My having found her binds me to watch over her. Do you understand me
Perfectly
You have the very justifiable opinion of me that I am likely to shatter all the glass in my way, and break my own skull into the bargain. Quite fair. Since I got into the scrape of being born, everything I have liked best has been a scrape either for myself or somebody else. Everything I have taken to heartily has somehow turned into a scrape. My painting is the last scrape; and I shall be all my life getting out of it. You think now I shall get into a scrape at home. No; I am regenerate. You think I must be over head and ears in love with Mirah. Quite right; so I am. But you think I shall scream and plunge and spoil everything. There you are mistaken -- excusably, but transcendently mistaken. I have undergone baptism by immersion. Awe takes care of me. Ask the little mother
You don't reckon a hopeless love among your scrapes, then
I don't mean to call mine hopeless
My dear fellow, you are only preparing misery for yourself
She would not marry a Christian, even if she loved him. Have you heard her -- of course you have -- heard her speak of her people and her religion
That can't last
She will see no Jew who is tolerable. Every male of that race is insupportable,-- 'insupportably advancing'-- his nose
She may rejoin her family. That is what she longs for. Her mother and brother are probably strict Jews
I'll turn proselyte, if she wishes it
Don't talk nonsense, Hans. I thought you professed a serious love for her
So I do. You think it desperate, but I don't
I know nothing; I can't tell what has happened. We must be prepared for surprises. But I can hardly imagine a greater surprise to me than that there should have seemed to be anything in Mirah's sentiments for you to found a romantic hope on
I don't found my romantic hopes on a woman's sentiments
I go to science and philosophy for my romance. Nature designed Mirah to fall in love with me. The amalgamation of races demands it -- the mitigation of human ugliness demands it -- the affinity of contrasts assures it. I am the utmost contrast to Mirah -- a bleached Christian, who can't sing two notes in tune. Who has a chance against me
I see now; it was all _persiflage_. You don't mean a word you say, Meyrick
I was a wiseacre to answer you seriously
Upon my honor I do mean it, though
I am at the confessional. I meant to tell you as soon as you came. My mother says you are Mirah's guardian, and she thinks herself responsible to you for every breath that falls on Mirah in her house. Well, I love her -- I worship her -- I won't despair -- I mean to deserve her
My dear fellow, you can't do it
I should have said, I mean to try
You can't keep your resolve, Hans. You used to resolve what you would do for your mother and sisters
You have a right to reproach me, old fellow
Perhaps I am ungenerous
Yet it can't be ungenerous to warn you that you are indulging mad, Quixotic expectations
Who will be hurt but myself, then
I am not going to say anything to her unless I felt sure of the answer. I dare not ask the oracles: I prefer a cheerful caliginosity, as Sir Thomas Browne might say. I would rather run my chance there and lose, than be sure of winning anywhere else. And I don't mean to swallow the poison of despair, though you are disposed to thrust it on me. I am giving up wine, so let me get a little drunk on hope and vanity
With all my heart, if it will do you any good
He passes from one figure to another as if he were a bit of flame where you fancied the figures without seeing them
he is so wonderfully quick. I used never to like comic things on the stage -- they were dwelt on too long; but all in one minute Mr. Hans makes himself a blind bard, and then Rienzi addressing the Romans, and then an opera-dancer, and then a desponding young gentleman -- I am sorry for them all, and yet I laugh, all in one
We hardly thought that Mirah could laugh till Hans came
Hans seems in great force just now
I don't wonder at his enlivening you
He's been just perfect ever since he came back
if it will but last
It is a great happiness
to see the son and brother come into this dear home. And I hear them all talk about what they did together when they were little. That seems like heaven, and to have a mother and brother who talk in that way. I have never had it
Nor I
No
I wish you had. I wish you had had every good
But Mr. Hans said yesterday that you thought so much of others you hardly wanted anything for yourself. He told us a wonderful story of Buddha giving himself to the famished tigress to save her and her little ones from starving. And he said you were like Buddha. That is what we all imagine of you
Pray don't imagine that
Even if it were true that I thought so much of others, it would not follow that I had no wants for myself. When Buddha let the tigress eat him he might have been very hungry himself
Perhaps if he was starved he would not mind so much about being eaten
Please don't think that, Mab; it takes away the beauty of the action
But if it were true, Mirah
you always take what is beautiful as if it were true
So it is
If people have thought what is the most beautiful and the best thing, it must be true. It is always there
Now, Mirah, what do you mean
I understand her
It is a truth in thought though it may never have been carried out in action. It lives as an idea. Is that it
It must be that, because you understand me, but I cannot quite explain
But _was_ it beautiful for Buddha to let the tiger eat him
It would be a bad pattern
The world would get full of fat tigers
It is like a passionate word
the exaggeration is a flash of fervor. It is an extreme image of what is happening every day-the transmutation of self
I think I can say what I mean, now
When the best thing comes into our thoughts, it is like what my mother has been to me. She has been just as really with me as all the other people about me -- often more really with me
But we must not get too far away from practical matters. I came, for one thing, to tell of an interview I had yesterday, which I hope Mirah will find to have been useful to her. It was with Klesmer, the great pianist
Ah
You think he will help her
I hope so. He is very much occupied, but has promised to fix a time for receiving and hearing Miss Lapidoth, as we must learn to call her
If she consents to go to him
I shall be very grateful
He wants to hear me sing, before he can judge whether I ought to be helped
It will not be at all trying to you, I hope, if Mrs. Meyrick will kindly go with you to Klesmer's house
Oh, no, not at all trying. I have been doing that all my life -- I mean, told to do things that others may judge of me. And I have gone through a bad trial of that sort. I am prepared to bear it, and do some very small thing. Is Klesmer a severe man
He is peculiar, but I have not had experience enough of him to know whether he would be what you would call severe
I know he is kind-hearted -- kind in action, if not in speech
I have been used to be frowned at and not praised
By the by, Klesmer frowns a good deal
but there is often a sort of smile in his eyes all the while. Unhappily he wears spectacles, so you must catch him in the right light to see the smile
I shall not be frightened
If he were like a roaring lion, he only wants me to sing. I shall do what I can
Then I feel sure you will not mind being invited to sing in Lady Mallinger's drawing-room
She intends to ask you next month, and will invite many ladies to hear you, who are likely to want lessons from you for their daughters
How fast we are mounting
You never thought of getting grand so quickly, Mirah
I am a little frightened at being called Miss Lapidoth
Might I be called Cohen
I understand you
But I assure you, you must not be called Cohen. The name is inadmissible for a singer. This is one of the trifles in which we must conform to vulgar prejudice. We could choose some other name, however -- such as singers ordinarily choose -- an Italian or Spanish name, which would suit your _physique_
No. If Cohen will not do, I will keep the name I have been called by. I will not hide myself. I have friends to protect me. And now -- if my father were very miserable and wanted help -- no
I should think, then, that he was perhaps crying as I used to see him, and had nobody to pity him, and I had hidden myself from him. He had none belonging to him but me. Others that made friends with him always left him
Keep to what you feel right, my dear child
_I_ would not persuade you to the contrary
I am rather base to be angry with Hans. How can he help being in love with her? But it is too absurdly presumptuous for him even to frame the idea of appropriating her, and a sort of blasphemy to suppose that she could possibly give herself to him
I sleep, but my heart waketh
If not I, then another
I am lord of this moment's change, and will charge it with my soul
The boy will get them engraved within him
it is a way of printing
My words may rule him some day. Their meaning may flash out on him. It is so with a nation -- after many days
Away from me the garment of forgetfulness. Withering the heart; The oil and wine from presses of the Goyim, Poisoned with scorn. Solitude is on the sides of Mount Nebo, In its heart a tomb: There the buried ark and golden cherubim Make hidden light: There the solemn gaze unchanged, The wings are spread unbroken: Shut beneath in silent awful speech The Law lies graven. Solitude and darkness are my covering, And my heart a tomb; Smite and shatter it, O Gabriel! Shatter it as the clay of the founder Around the golden image
Child! child
What
A curse is on your generation, child. They will open the mountain and drag forth the golden wings and coin them into money, and the solemn faces they will break up into ear-rings for wanton women! And they shall get themselves a new name, but the angel of ignominy, with the fiery brand, shall know them, and their heart shall be the tomb of dead desires that turn their life to rottenness
Our sick eyes make it
Vor den Wissenden sich stellen Sicher ist's in alien Faellen! Wenn du lange dich gequaelet Weiss er gleich wo dir es fehlet; Auch auf Beifall darfst du hoffen, Denn er weiss wo du's getroffen
The Praise of Chimney-Sweeps
innocent blackness
Dear me
can it be Lady Mallinger? Is there a grand carriage, Amy
No -- only a hansom cab. It must be a gentleman
The Prime Minister, I should think
Hans says the greatest man in London may get into a hansom cab
Oh, oh, oh
Suppose it should be Lord Russell
I hope I have not taken too great a freedom. Being in the neighborhood, I ventured to save time by calling. Our friend, Mr. Deronda, mentioned to me an understanding that I was to have the honor of becoming acquainted with a young lady here -- Miss Lapidoth
Those are my daughters: this is Miss Lapidoth
Ah
You will not object to beginning our acquaintance by singing to me
I shall be very glad. It is good of you to be willing to listen to me
Shall I accompany myself
By all means
He will like her singing better if he sees her
_O patria mia, vedo le mura c gli archi E le colonne e i simula-cri e l'erme Torridegli avi nostri_
_Ma la gloria -- non vedo_
_Beatissimi voi. Che offriste il petto alle nemiche lance Per amor di costei che al sol vi diede_
_Oh viva, oh viva: Beatissimi voi Mentre nel monde si favelli o scriva
That is Joseph Leo's music
Yes, he was my last master -- at Vienna: so fierce and so good
He prophesied that my voice would not do for the stage. And he was right
_Con_tinue, if you please
Faust
Let us shake hands: you are a musician
Not for great tasks. No high roofs. We are no skylarks. We must be modest
as if Mirah had shown the least sign of conceit
I would not advise -- I would not further your singing in any larger space than a private drawing-room. But you will do there. And here in London that is one of the best careers open. Lessons will follow. Will you come and sing at a private concert at my house on Wednesday
Oh, I shall be grateful
I would rather get my bread in that way than by anything more public. I will try to improve. What should I work at most
I shall introduce you to Astorga: he is the foster-father of good singing and will give you advice
Mrs. Klesmer will call before Wednesday, with your permission
We shall feel that to be a great kindness
You will sing to her
Sicher ist's in alien Faellen
Schoen
That young lady is musical, I see
Yes
And she has a touch
Oh, please, Mirah -- a scramble, not a touch
Will she like to accompany Miss Lapidoth and hear the music on Wednesday
There could hardly be a greater pleasure for her
She will be most glad and grateful
She will do: if she doesn't attempt too much and her voice holds out, she can make an income. I know that is the great point: Deronda told me. You are taking care of her. She looks like a good girl
She is an angel
No
she is a pretty Jewess: the angels must not get the credit of her. But I think she has found a guardian angel
We can never get her a new dress before Wednesday
Thank heaven my table is not knocked over
Now, now, Mab
come and sit down reasonably and let us talk
Yes, let us talk
I am beginning to feel large again. Hans said he was coming this afternoon. I wish he had been here -- only there would have been no room for him. Mirah, what are you looking sad for
I am too happy
I feel so full of gratitude to you all; and he was so very kind
Yes, at last
But he might have said something encouraging sooner. I thought him dreadfully ugly when he sat frowning, and only said, '_Con_tinue.' I hated him all the long way from the top of his hair to the toe of his polished boot
Nonsense, Mab; he has a splendid profile
_Now_, but not _then_. I cannot bear people to keep their minds bottled up for the sake of letting them off with a pop. They seem to grudge making you happy unless they can make you miserable beforehand. However, I forgive him everything
but he has invited me. I wonder why he fixed on me as the musical one? Was it because I have a bulging forehead, ma, and peep from under it like a newt from under a stone
It was your way of listening to the singing, child
He has magic spectacles and sees everything through them, depend upon it. But what was that German quotation you were so ready with, Mirah -- you learned puss
Oh, that was not learning
I said it so many times for a lesson. It means that it is safer to do anything -- singing or anything else -- before those who know and understand all about it
That was why you were not one bit frightened, I suppose
But now, what we have to talk about is a dress for you on Wednesday
I don't want anything better than this black merino
Some white gloves and some new _bottines_
There comes Hans
Stand still, and let us hear what he says about the dress. Artists are the best people to consult about such things
You don't consult me, ma
I notice mothers are like the people I deal with -- the girls' doings are always priced low
My dear child, the boys are such a trouble -- we could never put up with them, if we didn't make believe they were worth more
Hans, we want your opinion about Mirah's dress. A great event has happened. Klesmer has been here, and she is going to sing at his house on Wednesday among grand people. She thinks this dress will do
Let me see
This would be thought a very good stage-dress for me
in a part where I was to come on as a poor Jewess and sing to fashionable Christians
It would be effective
it would stand out well among the fashionable _chiffons_
But you ought not to claim all the poverty on your side, Mirah
There are plenty of poor Christians and dreadfully rich Jews and fashionable Jewesses
I didn't mean any harm
Only I have been used to thinking about my dress for parts in plays. And I almost always had a part with a plain dress
That makes me think it questionable
It looks a little too theatrical. We must not make you a _role_ of the poor Jewess -- or of being a Jewess at all
But it is what I am really. I am not pretending anything. I shall never be anything else
I always feel myself a Jewess
But we can't feel that about you
What does it signify whether a perfect woman is a Jewess or not
That is your kind way of praising me; I never was praised so before
People don't think of me as a British Christian
They think of me as an imperfectly handsome young man and an unpromising painter
But you are wandering from the dress
If that will not do, how are we to get another before Wednesday? and to-morrow Sunday
Indeed this will do
It is all real, you know
even if it seemed theatrical. Poor Berenice sitting on the ruins -- any one might say that was theatrical, but I know that this is just what she would do
I am a scoundrel
That is my invention. Nobody knows that she did that. Shall you forgive me for not saying so before
Oh, yes
You knew it was what she would be sure to do -- a Jewess who had not been faithful -- who had done what she did and was penitent. She could have no joy but to afflict herself; and where else would she go? I think it is very beautiful that you should enter so into what a Jewess would feel
The Jewesses of that time sat on ruins
That makes them convenient for pictures
But the dress -- the dress
is it settled
Yes; is it not
What do you think, Hans
That dress will not do
She is not going to sit on ruins. You must jump into a cab with her, little mother, and go to Regent Street. It's plenty of time to get anything you like -- a black silk dress such as ladies wear. She must not be taken for an object of charity. She has talents to make people indebted to her
I think it is what Mr. Deronda would like -- for her to have a handsome dress
Of course it is
You may take my word for what a gentleman would feel
I wish to do what Mr. Deronda would like me to do
Shouldn't you like to make a study of Klesmer's head, Hans
I suppose you have often seen him
Seen him
Perhaps you don't like this mimicry; you must always stop my nonsense when you don't like it
Thank you. But you have never done anything I did not like. I hardly think he could, belonging to you
Within the soul a faculty abides, That with interpositions, which would hide And darken, so can deal, that they become Contingencies of pomp; and serve to exalt Her native brightness, as the ample moon. In the deep stillness of a summer even. Rising behind a thick and lofty grove. Into a substance glorious as her own, Yea, with her own incorporated, by power Capacious and serene
I suppose if I got from this man the information I am most anxious about
I should be contented enough if he felt no disposition to tell me more of himself, or why he seemed to have some expectation from me which was disappointed. The sort of curiosity he stirs would die out; and yet it might be that he had neared and parted as one can imagine two ships doing, each freighted with an exile who would have recognized the other if the two could have looked out face to face. Not that there is any likelihood of a peculiar tie between me and this poor fellow, whose voyage, I fancy, must soon be over. But I wonder whether there is much of that momentous mutual missing between people who interchange blank looks, or even long for one another's absence in a crowded place. However, one makes one's self chances of missing by going on the recruiting sergeant's plan
I was very glad to see you standing here
for I was intending to go on to the book-shop and look for you again. I was there yesterday -- perhaps they mentioned it to you
Yes
that was the reason I came to the bridge
You knew nothing of my being at Chelsea
No; but I expected you to come down the river. I have been waiting for you these five years
It will be a satisfaction to me if I can be of any real use to you
Shall we get into a cab and drive to -- wherever you wish to go? You have probably had walking enough with your short breath
Let us go to the book-shop. It will soon be time for me to be there. But now look up the river
See the sky, how it is slowly fading. I have always loved this bridge: I stood on it when I was a little boy. It is a meeting-place for the spiritual messengers. It is true -- what the Masters said -- that each order of things has its angel: that means the full message of each from what is afar. Here I have listened to the messages of earth and sky; when I was stronger I used to stay and watch for the stars in the deep heavens. But this time just about sunset was always what I loved best. It has sunk into me and dwelt with me -- fading, slowly fading: it was my own decline: it paused -- it Waited, till at last it brought me my new life -- my new self -- who will live when this breath is all breathed out
madness
Let us go now
We will get down at the end of the street and walk to the shop. You can look at the books, and Mr. Ram will be going away directly and leave us alone
a man of the world
I suppose I am in a state of complete superstition, just as if I were awaiting the destiny that could interpret the oracle. But some strong relation there must be between me and this man, since he feels it strongly. Great heaven! what relation has proved itself more potent in the world than faith even when mistaken -- than expectation even when perpetually disappointed? Is my side of the relation to be disappointing or fulfilling?-- well, if it is ever possible for me to fulfill I will not disappoint
My boy
You cannot know what has guided me to you and brought us together at this moment. You are wondering
I am not impatient
I am ready to listen to whatever you may wish to disclose
You see some of the reasons why I needed you
You see that I am dying. You see that I am as one shut up behind bars by the wayside, who if he spoke to any would be met only by head-shaking and pity. The day is closing -- the light is fading -- soon we should not have been able to discern each other. But you have come in time
I rejoice that I am come in time
I hope you are not mistaken in me
mistaken
But the hidden reasons why I need you began afar off
began in my early years when I was studying in another land. Then ideas, beloved ideas, came to me, because I was a Jew. They were a trust to fulfill, because I was a Jew. They were an inspiration, because I was a Jew, and felt the heart of my race beating within me. They were my life; I was not fully born till then. I counted this heart, and this breath, and this right hand
I counted my sleep and my waking, and the work I fed my body with, and the sights that fed my eyes -- I counted them but as fuel to the divine flame. But I had done as one who wanders and engraves his thought in rocky solitudes, and before I could change my course came care and labor and disease, and blocked the way before me, and bound me with the iron that eats itself into the soul. Then I said, 'How shall I save the life within me from being stifled with this stifled breath
But you may misunderstand me. I speak not as an ignorant dreamer -- as one bred up in the inland valleys, thinking ancient thoughts anew, and not knowing them ancient, never having stood by the great waters where the world's knowledge passes to and fro. English is my mother-tongue, England is the native land of this body, which is but as a breaking pot of earth around the fruit-bearing tree, whose seed might make the desert rejoice. But my true life was nourished in Holland at the feet of my mother's brother, a Rabbi skilled in special learning: and when he died I went to Hamburg to study, and afterwards to Goettingen, that I might take a larger outlook on my people, and on the Gentile world, and drank knowledge at all sources. I was a youth; I felt free; I saw our chief seats in Germany; I was not then in utter poverty. And I had possessed myself of a handicraft. For I said, I care not if my lot be as that of Joshua ben Chananja: after the last destruction he earned his bread by making needles, but in his youth he had been a singer on the steps of the Temple, and had a memory of what was before the glory departed. I said, let my body dwell in poverty, and my hands be as the hands of the toiler: but let my soul be as a temple of remembrance where the treasures of knowledge enter and the inner sanctuary is hope. I knew what I chose. They said, 'He feeds himself on visions,' and I denied not; for visions are the creators and feeders of the world. I see, I measure the world as it is, which the vision will create anew. You are not listening to one who raves aloof from the lives of his fellows
Do me the justice to believe that I was not inclined to call your words raving. I listen that I may know, without prejudgment. I have had experience which gives me a keen interest in the story of a spiritual destiny embraced willingly, and embraced in youth
A spiritual destiny embraced willingly -- in youth
It was the soul fully born within me, and it came in my boyhood. It brought its own world -- a mediaeval world, where there are men who made the ancient language live again in new psalms of exile. They had absorbed the philosophy of the Gentile into the faith of the Jew, and they still yearned toward a center for our race. One of their souls was born again within me, and awakened amid the memories of their world. It traveled into Spain and Provence; it debated with Aben-Ezra; it took ship with Jehuda ha-Levi; it heard the roar of the Crusaders and the shrieks of tortured Israel. And when its dumb tongue was loosed, it spoke the speech they had made alive with the new blood of their ardor, their sorrow, and their martyred trust: it sang with the cadence of their strain
While it is imprisoned in me, it will never learn another
Have you written entirely in Hebrew, then
Yes -- yes
in my youth I wandered toward that solitude, not feeling that it was a solitude. I had the ranks of the great dead around me; the martyrs gathered and listened. But soon I found that the living were deaf to me. At first I saw my life spread as a long future: I said part of my Jewish heritage is an unbreaking patience; part is skill to seek divers methods and find a rooting-place where the planters despair. But there came new messengers from the Eternal. I had to bow under the yoke that presses on the great multitude born of woman: family troubles called me -- I had to work, to care, not for myself alone. I was left solitary again; but already the angel of death had turned to me and beckoned, and I felt his skirts continually on my path. I loosed not my effort. I besought hearing and help. I spoke; I went to men of our people -- to the rich in influence or knowledge, to the rich in other wealth. But I found none to listen with understanding. I was rebuked for error; I was offered a small sum in charity. No wonder. I looked poor; I carried a bundle of Hebrew manuscript with me; I said, our chief teachers are misleading the hope of our race. Scholar and merchant were both too busy to listen. Scorn stood as interpreter between me and them. One said, 'The book of Mormon would never have answered in Hebrew; and if you mean to address our learned men, it is not likely you can teach them anything.' He touched a truth there
But though you had accustomed yourself to write in Hebrew, few, surely, can use English better
Too late -- too late. I can write no more. My writing would be like this gasping breath. But the breath may wake the fount of pity -- the writing not. If I could write now and used English, I should be as one who beats a board to summon those who have been used to no signal but a bell. My soul has an ear to hear the faults of its own speech. New writing of mine would be like this body
within it there might be the Ruach-ha-kodesh -- the breath of divine thought -- but, men would smile at it and say, 'A poor Jew!' and the chief smilers would be of my own people
I feel with you -- I feel strongly with you
But forgive me if I speak hastily -- for what you have actually written there need be no utter burial. The means of publication are within reach. If you will rely on me, I can assure you of all that is necessary to that end
That is not enough
That is not all my trust in you. You must be not only a hand to me, but a soul -- believing my belief -- being moved by my reasons -- hoping my hope-seeing the vision I point to -- beholding a glory where I behold it
You will be my life: it will be planted afresh; it will grow. You shall take the inheritance; it has been gathering for ages. The generations are crowding on my narrow life as a bridge: what has been and what is to be are meeting there; and the bridge is breaking. But I have found you. You have come in time, You will take the inheritance which the base son refuses because of the tombs which the plow and harrow may not pass over or the gold-seeker disturb: you will take the sacred inheritance of the Jew
Do you forget what I told you when we first saw each other? Do you remember that I said I was not of your race
It can't be true
It can't be true
You are not sure of your own origin
How do you know that
I know it -- I know it; what is my life else
Tell me everything: tell me why you deny
I have never known my mother. I have no knowledge about her. I have never called any man father. But I am convinced that my father is an Englishman
It will be seen -- it will be declared
We must not lose sight of the fact that the outward event has not always been a fulfillment of the firmest faith
You would remind me that I may be under an illusion -- that the history of our people's trust has been full of illusion. I face it all
_So if might be with my trust, if you would make it an illusion. But you will not
What my birth was does not lie in my will
My sense of claims on me cannot be independent of my knowledge there. And I cannot promise you that I will try to hasten a disclosure. Feelings which have struck root through half my life may still hinder me from doing what I have never been able to do. Everything must be waited for. I must know more of the truth about my own life, and I must know more of what it would become if it were made a part of yours
You _shall_ know. What are we met for, but that you should know. Your doubts lie as light as dust on my belief. I know the philosophies of this time and of other times; if I chose I could answer a summons before their tribunals. I could silence the beliefs which are the mother-tongue of my soul and speak with the rote-learned language of a system, that gives you the spelling of all things, sure of its alphabet covering them all. I could silence them: may not a man silence his awe or his love, and take to finding reasons, which others demand? But if his love lies deeper than any reasons to be found? Man finds his pathways: at first they were foot tracks, as those of the beast in the wilderness: now they are swift and invisible: his thought dives through the ocean, and his wishes thread the air: has he found all the pathways yet? What reaches him, stays with him, rules him: he must accept it, not knowing its pathway. Say, my expectation of you has grown but as false hopes grow. That doubt is in your mind? Well, my expectation was there, and you are come. Men have died of thirst. But I was thirsty, and the water is on my lips? What are doubts to me? In the hour when you come to me and say, 'I reject your soul: I know that I am not a Jew: we have no lot in common' -- I shall not doubt. I shall be certain -- certain that I have been deluded. That hour will never come
It is my wish to meet and satisfy your wishes wherever that is possible to me. It is certain to me at least that I desire not to undervalue your toil and your suffering. Let me know your thoughts. But where can we meet
I have thought of that
It is not hard for you to come into this neighborhood later in the evening? You did so once
I can manage it very well occasionally
You live under the same roof with the Cohens, I think
We can't meet there: my room is too narrow
But there is a tavern not far from here where I sometimes go to a club. It is the _Hand and Banner_, in the street at the next turning, five doors down. We can have the parlor there any evening
We can try that for once
But you will perhaps let me provide you with some lodging, which would give you more freedom and comfort than where you are
No; I need nothing. My outer life is as nought. I will take nothing less precious from you than your soul's brotherhood. I will think of nothing else yet. But I am glad you are rich. You did not need money on that diamond ring. You had some other motive for bringing it
it is all one. Had you been in need of the money, the great end would have been that we should meet again. But you are rich
Not rich, except in the sense that every one is rich who has more than he needs for himself
I desired that your life should be free
mine has been a bondage
Can you tell me why Mrs. Cohen, the mother, must not be spoken to about her daughter
I know the reason. But I will not speak even of trivial family affairs which I have heard in the privacy of the family. I dwell in their tent as in a sanctuary. Their history, so far as they injure none other, is their own possession
I will part from you now
When will you come back
May I leave that unfixed? May I ask for you at the Cohens' any evening after your hour at the book-shop? There is no objection, I suppose, to their knowing that you and I meet in private
None
But the days I wait now are longer than the years of my strength. Life shrinks: what was but a tithe is now the half. My hope abides in you
I will be faithful
I will come the first evening I can after seven: on Saturday or Monday, if possible. Trust me
This is come to pass, and the rest will come
This, too is probable, according to that saying of Agathon: 'It is a part of probability that many improbable things will happen
A consumptive Jew, possessed by a fanaticism which obstacles and hastening death intensified, had fixed on Deronda as the antitype of some visionary image, the offspring of wedded hope and despair: despair of his own life, irrepressible hope in the propagation of his fanatical beliefs. The instance was perhaps odd, exceptional in its form, but substantially it was not rare. Fanaticism was not so common as bankruptcy, but taken in all its aspects it was abundant enough. While Mordecai was waiting on the bridge for the fulfillment of his visions, another man was convinced that he had the mathematical key of the universe which would supersede Newton, and regarded all known physicists as conspiring to stifle his discovery and keep the universe locked; another, that he had the metaphysical key, with just that hair's-breadth of difference from the old wards which would make it fit exactly. Scattered here and there in every direction you might find a terrible person, with more or less power of speech, and with an eye either glittering or preternaturally dull, on the look-out for the man who must hear him; and in most cases he had volumes which it was difficult to get printed, or if printed to get read. This Mordecai happened to have a more pathetic aspect, a more passionate, penetrative speech than was usual with such monomaniacs; he was more poetical than a social reformer with colored views of the new moral world in parallelograms, or than an enthusiast in sewage; still he came under the same class. It would be only right and kind to indulge him a little, to comfort him with such help as was practicable; but what likelihood was there that his notions had the sort of value he ascribed to them? In such cases a man of the world knows what to think beforehand. And as to Mordecai's conviction that he had found a new executive self, it might be preparing for him the worst of disappointments -- that which presents itself as final
Great benefactors of mankind, deliverers
Let the ages try the spirits, and see what they are worth
You must believe my beliefs -- be moved by my reasons -- hope my hopes -- see the vision I point to -- behold a glory where I behold it
My contempt for them binds me to see that I don't adopt their mistake on a small scale
But if the issue should be quite different?-- well, there will be something painful to go through. I shall almost inevitably have to be an active cause of that poor fellow's crushing disappointment. Perhaps this issue is the one I had need prepare myself for. I fear that no tenderness of mine can make his suffering lighter. Would the alternative -- that I should not disappoint him -- be less painful to me
The bare possibility
I should be glad
If there are ranks in suffering, Israel takes precedence of all the nations -- if the duration of sorrows and the patience with which they are borne ennoble, the Jews are among the aristocracy of every land -- if a literature is called rich in the possession of a few classic tragedies, what shall we say to a National Tragedy lasting for fifteen hundred years, in which the poets and the actors were also the heroes
done nothing but talk of it ever since
mother and the children
Stop
Don't tread on my plate. Stop and see me throw it up again
Is Mordecai in just now
Where is he, Addy
In the workroom there
The fact is, sir
we don't know what's come to him this last day or two. He's always what I may call a little touched, you know
not quite so rational in all things, like you and me; but he's mostly wonderful regular and industrious so far as a poor creature can be, and takes as much delight in the boy as anybody could. But this last day or two he's been moving about like a sleep-walker, or else sitting as still as a wax figure
It's the disease, poor dear creature
I doubt whether he can stand long against it
No; I think its only something he's got in his head
He's been turning over writing continually, and when I speak to him it takes him ever so long to hear and answer
You may think us a little weak ourselves
But my wife and mother wouldn't part with him if he was a still worse encumbrance. It isn't that we don't know the long and short of matters, but it's our principle. There's fools do business at a loss and don't know it. I'm not one of 'em
Oh, Mordecai carries a blessing inside him
He's got something the matter inside him
He said he couldn't talk to me, and he wouldn't have a bit o' bun
So far from wondering at your feeling for him
I already feel something of the same sort myself. I have lately talked to him at Ram's book-shop -- in fact, I promised to call for him here, that we might go out together
That's it, then
He's been expecting you, and it's taken hold of him. I suppose he talks about his learning to you. It's uncommonly kind of _you_, sir; for I don't suppose there's much to be got out of it, else it wouldn't have left him where he is. But there's the shop
I'll call Mordecai for you, if you like
No, Jacob
open the door for the gentleman, and let him go in himself Hush! don't make a noise
I am come for you. Are you ready
See my cup and ball
Fine, fine
You have forgotten your greatcoat and comforter
He's come to life again, do you see
I told you so: I'm mostly right
Well, sir, we mustn't detain you now, I suppose; but I hope this isn't the last time we shall see you
Shall you come again
See, I can catch the ball; I'll bet I catch it without stopping, if you come again
He has clever hands
Which side of the family does he get them from
My side. My wife's family are not in that line. But bless your soul! ours is a sort of cleverness as good as gutta percha; you can twist it which way you like. There's nothing some old gentlemen won't do if you set 'em to it
Old gentlemen, old gentlemen
I shall never know anything decisive about these people until I ask Cohen pointblank whether he lost a sister named Mirah when she was six years old
The Cohens seem to have an affection for you
And I for them
They have the heart of the Israelite within them, though they are as the horse and the mule, without understanding beyond the narrow path they tread
I have caused you some uneasiness, I fear
by my slowness in fulfilling my promise. I wished to come yesterday, but I found it impossible
Yes -- yes, I trusted you. But it is true I have been uneasy, for the spirit of my youth has been stirred within me, and this body is not strong enough to bear the beating of its wings. I am as a man bound and imprisoned through long years: behold him brought to speech of his fellow and his limbs set free: he weeps, he totters, the joy within him threatens to break and overthrow the tabernacle of flesh
You must not speak too much in this evening air
Cover your mouth with the woolen scarf. We are going to the _Hand and Banner_, I suppose, and shall be in private there
No, that is my trouble that you did not come yesterday. For this is the evening of the club I spoke of, and we might not have any minutes alone until late, when all the rest are gone. Perhaps we had better seek another place. But I am used to that only. In new places the outer world presses on me and narrows the inward vision. And the people there are familiar with my face
I don't mind the club if I am allowed to go in
It is enough that you like this place best. If we have not enough time I will come again. What sort of club is it
It is called 'The Philosophers.' They are few -- like the cedars of Lebanon -- poor men given to thought. But none so poor as I am: and sometimes visitors of higher worldly rank have been brought. We are allowed to introduce a friend, who is interested in our topics. Each orders beer or some other kind of drink, in payment for the room. Most of them smoke. I have gone when I could, for there are other men of my race who come, and sometimes I have broken silence. I have pleased myself with a faint likeness between these poor philosophers and the Masters who handed down the thought of our race -- the great Transmitters, who labored with their hands for scant bread, but preserved and enlarged for us the heritage of memory, and saved the soul of Israel alive as a seed among the tombs. The heart pleases itself with faint resemblances
I shall be very glad to go and sit among them, if that will suit you. It is a sort of meeting I should like to join in
As thought by thought is piled, till some great truth Is loosened, and the nations echo round
I have brought a friend who is interested in our subjects
He has traveled and studied much
Is the gentlemen anonymous? Is he a Great 'Unknown
My name is Daniel Deronda. I am unknown, but not in any sense great
Hear, hear
You recommend the name, sir, and are welcome. Here, Mordecai, come to this corner against me
This is what I call one of our touch-and-go nights, sir
Sometimes we stick pretty close to the point. But tonight our friend Pash, there, brought up the law of progress; and we got on statistics; then Lily, there, saying we knew well enough before counting that in the same state of society the same sort of things would happen, and it was no more wonder that quantities should remain the same, than that qualities should remain the same, for in relation to society numbers are qualities -- the number of drunkards is a quality in society -- the numbers are an index to the qualities, and give us no instruction, only setting us to consider the causes of difference between different social states -- Lily saying this, we went off on the causes of social change, and when you came in I was going upon the power of ideas, which I hold to be the main transforming cause
I don't hold with you there, Miller
For either you mean so many sorts of things by ideas that I get no knowledge by what you say, any more than if you said light was a cause; or else you mean a particular sort of ideas, and then I go against your meaning as too narrow. For, look at it in one way, all actions men put a bit of thought into are ideas -- say, sowing seed, or making a canoe, or baking clay; and such ideas as these work themselves into life and go on growing with it, but they can't go apart from the material that set them to work and makes a medium for them. It's the nature of wood and stone yielding to the knife that raises the idea of shaping them, and with plenty of wood and stone the shaping will go on. I look at it, that such ideas as are mixed straight away with all the other elements of life are powerful along with 'em. The slower the mixing, the less power they have. And as to the causes of social change, I look at it in this way -- ideas are a sort of parliament, but there's a commonwealth outside and a good deal of the commonwealth is working at change without knowing what the parliament is doing
But if you take ready mixing as your test of power
some of the least practical ideas beat everything. They spread without being understood, and enter into the language without being thought of
They may act by changing the distribution of gases
instruments are getting so fine now, men may come to register the spread of a theory by observed changes in the atmosphere and corresponding changes in the nerves
Yes
there is the idea of nationalities; I dare say the wild asses are snuffing it, and getting more gregarious
You don't share that idea
Say, rather, he does not share that spirit
Unless nationality is a feeling, what force can it have as an idea
Granted, Mordecai
And as the feeling of nationality is dying, I take the idea to be no better than a ghost, already walking to announce the death
A sentiment may seem to be dying and yet revive into strong life
Nations have revived. We may live to see a great outburst of force in the Arabs, who are being inspired with a new zeal
Amen, amen
That may hold with backward nations
but with us in Europe the sentiment of nationality is destined to die out. It will last a little longer in the quarters where oppression lasts, but nowhere else. The whole current of progress is setting against it
Ay
ye've done well to bring us round to the point. Ye're all agreed that societies change -- not always and everywhere -- but on the whole and in the long run. Now, with all deference, I would beg t' observe that we have got to examine the nature of changes before we have a warrant to call them progress, which word is supposed to include a bettering, though I apprehend it to be ill-chosen for that purpose, since mere motion onward may carry us to a bog or a precipice. And the questions I would put are three: Is all change in the direction of progress? if not, how shall we discern which change is progress and which not? and thirdly, how far and in what way can we act upon the course of change so as to promote it where it is beneficial, and divert it where it is injurious
Change and progress are merged in the idea of development. The laws of development are being discovered, and changes taking place according to them are necessarily progressive; that is to say, it we have any notion of progress or improvement opposed to them, the notion is a mistake
I really can't see how you arrive at that sort of certitude about changes by calling them development
There will still remain the degrees of inevitableness in relation to our own will and acts, and the degrees of wisdom in hastening or retarding; there will still remain the danger of mistaking a tendency which should be resisted for an inevitable law that we must adjust ourselves to,-- which seems to me as bad a superstition or false god as any that has been set up without the ceremonies of philosophising
That is a truth
Woe to the men who see no place for resistance in this generation! I believe in a growth, a passage, and a new unfolding of life whereof the seed is more perfect, more charged with the elements that are pregnant with diviner form. The life of a people grows, it is knit together and yet expanded, in joy and sorrow, in thought and action; it absorbs the thought of other nations into its own forms, and gives back the thought as new wealth to the world; it is a power and an organ in the great body of the nations. But there may come a check, an arrest; memories may be stifled, and love may be faint for the lack of them; or memories may shrink into withered relics -- the soul of a people, whereby they know themselves to be one, may seem to be dying for want of common action. But who shall say, 'The fountain of their life is dried up, they shall forever cease to be a nation?' Who shall say it? Not he who feels the life of his people stirring within his own. Shall he say, 'That way events are wending, I will not resist?' His very soul is resistance, and is as a seed of fire that may enkindle the souls of multitudes, and make a new pathway for events
I don't deny patriotism
but we all know you have a particular meaning, Mordecai. You know Mordecai's way of thinking, I suppose
I'm a rational Jew myself. I stand by my people as a sort of family relations, and I am for keeping up our worship in a rational way. I don't approve of our people getting baptised, because I don't believe in a Jew's conversion to the Gentile part of Christianity. And now we have political equality, there's no excuse for a pretense of that sort. But I am for getting rid of all of our superstitions and exclusiveness. There's no reason now why we shouldn't melt gradually into the populations we live among. That's the order of the day in point of progress. I would as soon my children married Christians as Jews. And I'm for the old maxim, 'A man's country is where he's well off
That country's not so easy to find, Gideon
You get ten shillings a-week more than I do, and have only half the number of children. If somebody will introduce a brisk trade in watches among the 'Jerusalem wares,' I'll go -- eh, Mordecai, what do you say
What I say is, let every man keep far away from the brotherhood and inheritance he despises. Thousands on thousands of our race have mixed with the Gentiles as Celt with Saxon, and they may inherit the blessing that belongs to the Gentile. You cannot follow them. You are one of the multitudes over this globe who must walk among the nations and be known as Jews, and with words on their lips which mean, 'I wish I had not been born a Jew, I disown any bond with the long travail of my race, I will outdo the Gentile in mocking at our separateness,' they all the while feel breathing on them the breath of contempt because they are Jews, and they will breathe it back poisonously. Can a fresh-made garment of citizenship weave itself straightway into the flesh and change the slow deposit of eighteen centuries? What is the citizenship of him who walks among a people he has no hardy kindred and fellowship with, and has lost the sense of brotherhood with his own race? It is a charter of selfish ambition and rivalry in low greed. He is an alien of spirit, whatever he may be in form; he sucks the blood of mankind, he is not a man, sharing in no loves, sharing in no subjection of the soul, he mocks it all. Is it not truth I speak, Pash
Not exactly, Mordecai
if you mean that I think the worse of myself for being a Jew. What I thank our fathers for is that there are fewer blockheads among us than among other races. But perhaps you are right in thinking the Christians don't like me so well for it
Catholics and Protestants have not liked each other much better
We must wait patiently for prejudices to die out. Many of our people are on a footing with the best, and there's been a good filtering of our blood into high families. I am for making our expectations rational
And so am I
I, too, claim to be a rational Jew. But what is it to be rational -- what is it to feel the light of the divine reason growing stronger within and without? It is to see more and more of the hidden bonds that bind and consecrate change as a dependent growth -- yea, consecrate it with kinship: the past becomes my parent and the future stretches toward me the appealing arms of children. Is it rational to drain away the sap of special kindred that makes the families of men rich in interchanged wealth, and various as the forests are various with the glory of the cedar and the palm? When it is rational to say, 'I know not my father or my mother, let my children be aliens to me, that no prayer of mine may touch them,' then it will be rational for the Jew to say, 'I will seek to know no difference between me and the Gentile, I will not cherish the prophetic consciousness of our nationality -- let the Hebrew cease to be, and let all his memorials be antiquarian trifles, dead as the wall- paintings of a conjectured race. Yet let his child learn by rote the speech of the Greek, where he abjures his fellow-citizens by the bravery of those who fought foremost at Marathon -- let him learn to say that was noble in the Greek, that is the spirit of an immortal nation! But the Jew has no memories that bind him to action; let him laugh that his nation is degraded from a nation; let him hold the monuments of his law which carried within its frame the breath of social justice, of charity, and of household sanctities -- let him hold the energy of the prophets, the patient care of the Masters, the fortitude of martyred generations, as mere stuff for a professorship. The business of the Jew in all things is to be even as the rich Gentile
I submit
that ye're traveling away from the questions I put concerning progress
Say they're levanting, Buchan
Never mind. Let us have a Jewish night; we've not had one for a long while. Let us take the discussion on Jewish ground. I suppose we've no prejudice here; we're all philosophers; and we like our friends Mordecai, Pash, and Gideon, as well as if they were no more kin to Abraham than the rest of us. We're all related through Adam, until further showing to the contrary, and if you look into history we've all got some discreditable forefathers. So I mean no offence when I say I don't think any great things of the part the Jewish people have played in the world. What then? I think they were iniquitously dealt by in past times. And I suppose we don't want any men to be maltreated, white, black, brown, or yellow -- I know I've just given my half-crown to the contrary. And that reminds me, I've a curious old German book -- I can't read it myself, but a friend of mine was reading out of it to me the other day -- about the prejudicies against the Jews, and the stories used to be told against 'em, and what do you think one was? Why, that they're punished with a bad odor in their bodies; and _that_, says the author, date 1715 (I've just been pricing and marking the book this very morning)-- that is true, for the ancients spoke of it. But then, he says, the other things are fables, such as that the odor goes away all at once when they're baptized, and that every one of the ten tribes, mind you, all the ten being concerned in the crucifixion, has got a particular punishment over and above the smell:-- Asher, I remember, has the right arm a handbreadth shorter than the left, and Naphthali has pig's ears and a smell of live pork. What do you think of that? There's been a good deal of fun made of rabbinical fables, but in point of fables my opinion is, that all over the world it's six of one and half-a-dozen of the other. However, as I said before, I hold with the philosophers of the last century that the Jews have played no great part as a people, though Pash will have it they're clever enough to beat all the rest of the world. But if so, I ask, why haven't they done it
For the same reason that the cleverest men in the country don't get themselves or their ideas into Parliament
because the blockheads are too many for 'em
That is a vain question
whether our people would beat the rest of the world. Each nation has its own work, and is a member of the world, enriched by the work of each. But it is true, as Jehuda-ha-Levi first said, that Israel is the heart of mankind, if we mean by heart the core of affection which binds a race and its families in dutiful love, and the reverence for the human body which lifts the needs of our animal life into religion, and the tenderness which is merciful to the poor and weak and to the dumb creature that wears the yoke for us
They're not behind any nation in arrogance
and if they have got in the rear, it has not been because they were over-modest
Oh, every nation brags in its turn
Yes
and some of them in the Hebrew text
Well, whatever the Jews contributed at one time, they are a stand-still people
They are the type of obstinate adherence to the superannuated. They may show good abilities when they take up liberal ideas, but as a race they have no development in them
That is false
Let their history be known and examined; let the seed be sifted, let its beginning be traced to the weed of the wilderness -- the more glorious will be the energy that transformed it. Where else is there a nation of whom it may be as truly said that their religion and law and moral life mingled as the stream of blood in the heart and made one growth -- where else a people who kept and enlarged their spiritual store at the very time when they are hated with a hatred as fierce as the forest fires that chase the wild beast from his covert? There is a fable of the Roman, that swimming to save his life he held the roll of his writings between his teeth and saved them from the waters. But how much more than that is true of our race? They struggled to keep their place among the nations like heroes -- yea, when the hand was hacked off, they clung with their teeth; but when the plow and the harrow had passed over the last visible signs of their national covenant, and the fruitfulness of their land was stifled with the blood of the sowers and planters, they said, 'The spirit is alive, let us make it a lasting habitation -- lasting because movable -- so that it may be carried from generation to generation, and our sons unborn may be rich in the things that have been, and possess a hope built on an unchangeable foundation.' They said it and they wrought it, though often breathing with scant life, as in a coffin, or as lying wounded amid a heap of slain. Hooted and scared like the unknown dog, the Hebrew made himself envied for his wealth and wisdom, and was bled of them to fill the bath of Gentile luxury; he absorbed knowledge, he diffused it; his dispersed race was a new Phoenicia working the mines of Greece and carrying their products to the world. The native spirit of our tradition was not to stand still, but to use records as a seed and draw out the compressed virtues of law and prophecy; and while the Gentile, who had said, 'What is yours is ours, and no longer yours,' was reading the letter of our law as a dark inscription, or was turning its parchments into shoe- soles for an army rabid with lust and cruelty, our Masters were still enlarging and illuminating with fresh-fed interpretation. But the dispersion was wide, the yoke of oppression was a spiked torture as well as a load; the exile was forced afar among brutish people, where the consciousness of his race was no clearer to him than the light of the sun to our fathers in the Roman persecution, who had their hiding-place in a cave, and knew not that it was day save by the dimmer burning of their candles. What wonder that multitudes of our people are ignorant, narrow, superstitious? What wonder
What wonder? The night is unto them, that they have no vision; in their darkness they are unable to divine; the sun is gone down over the prophets, and the day is dark above them; their observances are as nameless relics. But which among the chief of the Gentile nations has not an ignorant multitude? They scorn our people's ignorant observance; but the most accursed ignorance is that which has no observance -- sunk to the cunning greed of the fox, to which all law is no more than a trap or the cry of the worrying hound. There is a degradation deep down below the memory that has withered into superstition. In the multitudes of the ignorant on three continents who observe our rites and make the confession of the divine Unity, the soul of Judaism is not dead. Revive the organic centre: let the unity of Israel which has made the growth and form of its religion be an outward reality. Looking toward a land and a polity, our dispersed people in all the ends of the earth may share the dignity of a national life which has a voice among the peoples of the East and the West -- which will plant the wisdom and skill of our race so that it may be, as of old, a medium of transmission and understanding. Let that come to pass, and the living warmth will spread to the weak extremities of Israel, and superstition will vanish, not in the lawlessness of the renegade, but in the illumination of great facts which widen feeling, and make all knowledge alive as the young offspring of beloved memories
You must hope my hopes -- see the vision I point to -- behold a glory where I behold it
You have your own way of looking at things, Mordecai, and as you say, your own way seems to you rational. I know you don't hold with the restoration of Judea by miracle, and so on; but you are as well aware as I am that the subject has been mixed with a heap of nonsense both by Jews and Christians. And as to the connection of our race with Palestine, it has been perverted by superstition till it's as demoralizing as the old poor-law. The raff and scum go there to be maintained like able-bodied paupers, and to be taken special care of by the angel Gabriel when they die. It's no use fighting against facts. We must look where they point; that's what I call rationality. The most learned and liberal men among us who are attached to our religion are for clearing our liturgy of all such notions as a literal fulfillment of the prophecies about restoration, and so on. Prune it of a few useless rites and literal interpretations of that sort, and our religion is the simplest of all religions, and makes no barrier, but a union, between us and the rest of the world
As plain as a pike-staff
You pluck it up by the roots, strip off the leaves and bark, shave off the knots, and smooth it at top and bottom; put it where you will, it will do no harm, it will never sprout. You may make a handle of it, or you may throw it on the bonfire of scoured rubbish. I don't see why our rubbish is to be held sacred any more than the rubbish of Brahmanism or Buddhism
No
no, Pash, because you have lost the heart of the Jew. Community was felt before it was called good. I praise no superstition, I praise the living fountains of enlarging belief. What is growth, completion, development? You began with that question, I apply it to the history of our people. I say that the effect of our separateness will not be completed and have its highest transformation unless our race takes on again the character of a nationality. That is the fulfillment of the religious trust that moulded them into a people, whose life has made half the inspiration of the world. What is it to me that the ten tribes are lost untraceably, or that multitudes of the children of Judah have mixed themselves with the Gentile populations as a river with rivers? Behold our people still! Their skirts spread afar; they are torn and soiled and trodden on; but there is a jeweled breastplate. Let the wealthy men, the monarchs of commerce, the learned in all knowledge, the skilful in all arts, the speakers, the political counselors, who carry in their veins the Hebrew blood which has maintained its vigor in all climates, and the pliancy of the Hebrew genius for which difficulty means new device -- let them say, 'we will lift up a standard, we will unite in a labor hard but glorious like that of Moses and Ezra, a labor which shall be a worthy fruit of the long anguish whereby our fathers maintained their separateness, refusing the ease of falsehood.' They have wealth enough to redeem the soil from debauched and paupered conquerors; they have the skill of the statesman to devise, the tongue of the orator to persuade. And is there no prophet or poet among us to make the ears of Christian Europe tingle with shame at the hideous obloquy of Christian strife which the Turk gazes at as at the fighting of beasts to which he has lent an arena? There is store of wisdom among us to found a new Jewish polity, grand, simple, just, like the old -- a republic where there is equality of protection, an equality which shone like a star on the forehead of our ancient community, and gave it more than the brightness of Western freedom amid the despotisms of the East. Then our race shall have an organic centre, a heart and brain to watch and guide and execute; the outraged Jew shall have a defense in the court of nations, as the outraged Englishman of America. And the world will gain as Israel gains. For there will be a community in the van of the East which carries the culture and the sympathies of every great nation in its bosom: there will be a land set for a halting-place of enmities, a neutral ground for the East as Belgium is for the West. Difficulties? I know there are difficulties. But let the spirit of sublime achievement move in the great among our people, and the work will begin
Ay, we may safely admit that, Mordecai
When there are great men on 'Change, and high-flying professors converted to your doctrine, difficulties will vanish like smoke
If we look back to the history of efforts which have made great changes, it is astonishing how many of them seemed hopeless to those who looked on in the beginning. "Take what we have all heard and seen something of -- the effort after the unity of Italy, which we are sure soon to see accomplished to the very last boundary. Look into Mazzini's account of his first yearning, when he was a boy, after a restored greatness and a new freedom to Italy, and of his first efforts as a young man to rouse the same feelings in other young men, and get them to work toward a united nationality. Almost everything seemed against him; his countrymen were ignorant or indifferent, governments hostile, Europe incredulous. Of course the scorners often seemed wise. Yet you see the prophecy lay with him. As long as there is a remnant of national consciousness, I suppose nobody will deny that there may be a new stirring of memories and hopes which may inspire arduous action
Amen
What is needed is the leaven -- what is needed is the seed of fire. The heritage of Israel is beating in the pulses of millions; it lives in their veins as a power without understanding, like the morning exultation of herds; it is the inborn half of memory, moving as in a dream among writings on the walls, which it sees dimly but cannot divide into speech. Let the torch of visible community be lit! Let the reason of Israel disclose itself in a great outward deed, and let there be another great migration, another choosing of Israel to be a nationality whose members may still stretch to the ends of the earth, even as the sons of England and Germany, whom enterprise carries afar, but who still have a national hearth and a tribunal of national opinion. Will any say 'It cannot be'? Baruch Spinoza had not a faithful Jewish heart, though he had sucked the life of his intellect at the breasts of Jewish tradition. He laid bare his father's nakedness and said, 'They who scorn him have the higher wisdom.' Yet Baruch Spinoza confessed, he saw not why Israel should not again be a chosen nation. Who says that the history and literature of our race are dead? Are they not as living as the history and literature of Greece and Rome, which have inspired revolutions, enkindled the thought of Europe, and made the unrighteous powers tremble? These were an inheritance dug from the tomb. Ours is an inheritance that has never ceased to quiver in millions of human frames
It may seem well enough on one side to make so much of our memories and inheritance as you do, Mordecai
but there's another side. It isn't all gratitude and harmless glory. Our people have inherited a good deal of hatred. There's a pretty lot of curses still flying about, and stiff settled rancor inherited from the times of persecution. How will you justify keeping one sort of memory and throwing away the other? There are ugly debts standing on both sides
I justify the choice as all other choice is justified
I cherish nothing for the Jewish nation, I seek nothing for them, but the good which promises good to all the nations. The spirit of our religious life, which is one with our national life, is not hatred of aught but wrong. The Master has said, an offence against man is worse than an offence against God. But what wonder if there is hatred in the breasts of Jews, who are children of the ignorant and oppressed -- what wonder, since there is hatred in the breasts of Christians? Our national life was a growing light. Let the central fire be kindled again, and the light will reach afar. The degraded and scorned of our race will learn to think of their sacred land, not as a place for saintly beggary to await death in loathsome idleness, but as a republic where the Jewish spirit manifests itself in a new order founded on the old, purified and enriched by the experience our greatest sons have gathered from the life of the ages. How long is it?-- only two centuries since a vessel carried over the ocean the beginning of the great North American nation. The people grew like meeting waters -- they were various in habit and sect -- there came a time, a century ago, when they needed a polity, and there were heroes of peace among them. What had they to form a polity with but memories of Europe, corrected by the vision of a better? Let our wise and wealthy show themselves heroes. They have the memories of the East and West, and they have the full vision of a better. A new Persia with a purified religion magnified itself in art and wisdom. So will a new Judaea, poised between East and West -- a covenant of reconciliation. Will any say, the prophetic vision of your race has been hopelessly mixed with folly and bigotry: the angel of progress has no message for Judaism -- it is a half-buried city for the paid workers to lay open -- the waters are rushing by it as a forsaken field? I say that the strongest principle of growth lies in human choice. The sons of Judah have to choose that God may again choose them. The Messianic time is the time when Israel shall will the planting of the national ensign. The Nile overflowed and rushed onward: the Egyptian could not choose the overflow, but he chose to work and make channels for the fructifying waters, and Egypt became the land of corn. Shall man, whose soul is set in the royalty of discernment and resolve, deny his rank and say, I am an onlooker, ask no choice or purpose of me? That is the blasphemy of this time. The divine principle of our race is action, choice, resolved memory. Let us contradict the blasphemy, and help to will our own better future and the better future of the world -- not renounce our higher gift and say, 'Let us be as if we were not among the populations;' but choose our full heritage, claim the brotherhood of our nation, and carry into it a new brotherhood with the nations of the Gentiles. The vision is there; it will be fulfilled
My spirit is too weak; mortality Weighs heavily on me like unwilling sleep, And each imagined pinnacle and steep Of godlike hardship tells me I must die Like a sick eagle looking at the sky
In the doctrine of the Cabbala, souls are born again and again in new bodies till they are perfected and purified, and a soul liberated from a worn-out body may join the fellow-soul that needs it, that they may be perfected together, and their earthly work accomplished. Then they will depart from the mortal region, and leave place for new souls to be born out of the store in the eternal bosom. It is the lingering imperfection of the souls already born into the mortal region that hinders the birth of new souls and the preparation of the Messianic time:-- thus the mind has given shape to what is hidden, as the shadow of what is known, and has spoken truth, though it were only in parable. When my long-wandering soul is liberated from this weary body, it will join yours, and its work will be perfected
Everything I can in conscience do to make your life effective I will do
I know it
I heard it. You see it all -- you are by my side on the mount of vision, and behold the paths of fulfillment which others deny
You will take up my life where it was broken. I feel myself back in that day when my life was broken. The bright morning sun was on the quay -- it was at Trieste -- the garments of men from all nations shone like jewels -- the boats were pushing off -- the Greek vessel that would land us at Beyrout was to start in an hour. I was going with a merchant as his clerk and companion. I said, I shall behold the lands and people of the East, and I shall speak with a fuller vision. I breathed then as you do, without labor; I had the light step and the endurance of youth, I could fast, I could sleep on the hard ground. I had wedded poverty, and I loved my bride -- for poverty to me was freedom. My heart exulted as if it had been the heart of Moses ben Maimon, strong with the strength of three score years, and knowing the work that was to fill them. It was the first time I had been south; the soul within me felt its former sun; and standing on the quay, where the ground I stood on seemed to send forth light, and the shadows had an azure glory as of spirits become visible, I felt myself in the flood of a glorious life, wherein my own small year-counted existence seemed to melt, so that I knew it not; and a great sob arose within me as at the rush of waters that were too strong a bliss. So I stood there awaiting my companion; and I saw him not till he said: 'Ezra, I have been to the post and there is your letter
Ezra
Ezra
I was expecting a letter; for I wrote continually to my mother. And that sound of my name was like the touch of a wand that recalled me to the body wherefrom I had been released as it were to mingle with the ocean of human existence, free from the pressure of individual bondage. I opened the letter; and the name came again as a cry that would have disturbed me in the bosom of heaven, and made me yearn to reach where that sorrow was -- 'Ezra, my son
She was a mother of whom it might have come -- yea, might have come to be said, 'Her children arise up and call her blessed.' In her I understood the meaning of that Master who, perceiving the footsteps of his mother, rose up and said, 'The Majesty of the Eternal cometh near!' And that letter was her cry from the depths of anguish and desolation -- the cry of a mother robbed of her little ones. I was her eldest. Death had taken four babes one after the other. Then came, late, my little sister, who was, more than all the rest, the desire of my mother's eyes; and the letter was a piercing cry to me --'Ezra, my son, I am robbed of her. He has taken her away and left disgrace behind. They will never come again
Mine was the lot of Israel. For the sin of the father my soul must go into exile. For the sin of the father the work was broken, and the day of fulfilment delayed. She who bore me was desolate, disgraced, destitute. I turned back. On the instant I turned -- her spirit and the spirit of her fathers, who had worthy Jewish hearts, moved within me, and drew me. God, in whom dwells the universe, was within me as the strength of obedience. I turned and traveled with hardship -- to save the scant money which she would need. I left the sunshine, and traveled into freezing cold. In the last stage I spent a night in exposure to cold and snow. And that was the beginning of this slow death
But I worked. We were destitute -- every thing had been seized. And she was ill: the clutch of anguish was too strong for her, and wrought with some lurking disease. At times she could not stand for the beating of her heart, and the images in her brain became as chambers of terror, where she beheld my sister reared in evil. In the dead of night I heard her crying for her child. Then I rose, and we stretched forth our arms together and prayed. We poured forth our souls in desire that Mirah might be delivered from evil
Mirah
Did you say Mirah
That was my little sister's name. After we had prayed for her, my mother would rest awhile. It lasted hardly four years, and in the minute before she died, we were praying the same prayer -- I aloud, she silently. Her soul went out upon its wings
Have you never since heard of your sister
Never. Never have I heard whether she was delivered according to our prayer. I know not, I know not. Who shall say where the pathways lie? The poisonous will of the wicked is strong. It poisoned my life -- it is slowly stifling this breath. Death delivered my mother, and I felt it a blessedness that I was alone in the winters of suffering. But what are the winters now?-- they are far off
there is nothing to wail in the withering of my body. The work will be the better done. Once I said the work of this beginning was mine, I am born to do it. Well, I shall do it. I shall live in you. I shall live in you
Let us go now. I cannot talk any longer
about things
He said, I must get more interest in others, and more knowledge, and that I must care about the best things -- but how am I to begin
medicine for the mind
She disguises it under an air of taking everything as a matter of course
A stranger might suppose that she had condescended rather than risen. I always noticed that doubleness in her
We can't be having _those people_ always. Gascoigne talks too much. Country clergy are always bores -- with their confounded fuss about everything
Mr. Grandcourt wants to recognize you as little as possible; and besides it is better you should not see much of my married life, else you might find out that I am miserable
It would not be so nice for you as being near the rectory here, mamma. We shall perhaps be very little at Ryelands. You would miss my aunt and uncle
happiness ever after
Mr. Grandcourt is gone out, so I determined to fill up the time by coming to you, mamma
That is a punishment to you for not wearing better lace on your head. You didn't think I should come and detect you -- you dreadfully careless-about-yourself mamma
Scold me, dear
But I wish there was something you could eat after your ride -- instead of these scraps. Let Jocosa make you a cup of chocolate in your old way. You used to like that
Oh, no, a piece of bread, or one of those hard biscuits. I can't think about eating. I am come to say good-bye
What! going to Ryelands again
No, we are going to town
It is rather early to go to town
and Mr. Grandcourt not in Parliament
Oh, there is only one more day's hunting to be had, and Henleigh has some business in town with lawyers, I think
I am very glad. I shall like to go to town
You will see your house in Grosvenor Square
Yes
And there is so much to be seen and done in town
I wish, my dear Gwendolen
that you would use your influence with Mr. Grandcourt to induce him to enter Parliament. A man of his position should make his weight felt in politics. The best judges are confident that the ministry will have to appeal to the country on this question of further Reform, and Mr. Grandcourt should be ready for the opportunity. I am not quite sure that his opinions and mine accord entirely; I have not heard him express himself very fully. But I don't look at the matter from that point of view. I am thinking of your husband's standing in the country. And he has now come to that stage of life when a man like him should enter into public affairs. A wife has great influence with her husband. Use yours in that direction, my dear
I should be very glad, uncle. But I think Mr. Grandcourt would not like the trouble of an election -- at least, unless it could be without his making speeches. I thought candidates always made speeches
Not necessarily -- to any great extent
A man of position and weight can get on without much of it. A county member need have very little trouble in that way, and both out of the House and in it is liked the better for not being a speechifier. Tell Mr. Grandcourt that I say so
Here comes Jocosa with my chocolate after all
Your uncle and Anna will very likely be in town about Easter
Dear Rex hopes to come out with honors and a fellowship, and he wants his father and Anna to meet him in London, that they may be jolly together, as he says. I shouldn't wonder if Lord Brackenshaw invited them, he has been so very kind since he came back to the Castle
I hope my uncle will bring Ann to stay in Grosvenor Square
I am very glad of Rex's good fortune
We must not be premature, and rejoice too much beforehand
Not but that I am in correspondence with impartial judges, who have the highest hopes about my son, as a singularly clear- headed young man. And of his excellent disposition and principle I have had the best evidence
We shall have him a great lawyer some time
How very nice
Talking of Lord Brackenshaw's kindness
you don't know how delightful he has been, Gwendolen. He has begged me to consider myself his guest in this house till I can get another that I like -- he did it in the most graceful way. But now a house has turned up. Old Mr. Jodson is dead, and we can have his house. It is just what I want; small, but with nothing hideous to make you miserable thinking about it. And it is only a mile from the Rectory. You remember the low white house nearly hidden by the trees, as we turn up the lane to the church
Yes, but you have no furniture, poor mamma
Oh, I am saving money for that. You know who has made me rather rich, dear
And Jocosa really makes so little do for housekeeping -- it is quite wonderful
Oh, please let me go up-stairs with you and arrange my hat, mamma
I suppose I shall never see all this again
You are not well, dear
No; that chocolate has made me sick
I should be allowed to come to you if you were ill, darling
Oh, yes
But you know I never am ill. I am as strong as possible; and you must not take to fretting about me, but make yourself as happy as you can with the girls. They are better children to you than I have been, you know
You have always been good, my darling. I remember nothing else
Why, what did I ever do that was good to you, except marry Mr. Grandcourt
And I should not have done that unless it had pleased myself
God forbid, child! I would not have had you marry for my sake. Your happiness by itself is half mine
Very well
then you will please to consider that you are half happy, which is more than I am used to seeing you
Now I am ready; but oh, mamma, Mr. Grandcourt gives me a quantity of money, and expects me to spend it, and I can't spend it; and you know I can't bear charity children and all that; and here are thirty pounds. I wish the girls would spend it for me on little things for themselves when you go to the new house. Tell them so
God bless you, dear
It will please them so that you should have thought of them in particular
Oh, they are troublesome things; but they don't trouble me now
I think I am making a very good Mrs. Grandcourt
a dog-hutch of a place in a black country
must go on
to be there
capable of submitting to anything in the form of duty
_O patria mia_
He thinks I am in the right road now
damnably vulgar
amateur too fond of Meyerbeer
Well, your Jewess is pretty -- there's no denying that. But where is her Jewish impudence? She looks as demure as a nun. I suppose she learned that on the stage
that Vandyke duchess of a beauty
I thought you could admire no style of woman but your Berenice
That is the style I worship -- not admire
Other styles of women I might make myself wicked for, but for Berenice I could make myself -- well, pretty good, which is something much more difficult
Hush
_O patria mia_
Non ti difende Nessun de tuoi! L'armi, qua l'armi: io solo Combattero, procombero sol io
Good, good -- the crescendo better than before
the little Jewess
But is it not cowardly to make that a reason for turning away
You must let me say how much I am obliged to you
I had heard from Mr. Deronda that I should have a great treat in your singing, but I was too ignorant to imagine how great
You are very good to say so
We shall all want to learn of you -- I, at least
I sing very badly, as Herr Klesmer will tell you
but I have been rebuked for not liking to middling, since I can be nothing more. I think that is a different doctrine from yours
Not if it means that it would be worth while for you to study further, and for Miss Lapidoth to have the pleasure of helping you
If you think I could teach you, I shall be very glad. I am anxious to teach, but I have only just begun. If I do it well, it must be by remembering how my master taught me
You have not been long in London, I think?-- but you were perhaps introduced to Mr. Deronda abroad
No
I never saw him before I came to England in the summer
But he has seen you often and heard you sing a great deal, has he not
He spoke of you to me with the highest praise. He seemed to know you quite well
Oh, I was poor and needed help
and Mr. Deronda has given me the best friends in the world. That is the only way he came to know anything about me -- because he was sorry for me. I had no friends when I came. I was in distress. I owe everything to him
Miss Lapidoth is everything you described her to be
You have been very quick in discovering that
I have not found out all the excellencies you spoke of -- I don't mean that
but I think her singing is charming, and herself, too. Her face is lovely -- not in the least common; and she is such a complete little person. I should think she will be a great success
You despise me for talking artificially
No
I think that is quite excusable sometimes. But I did not think what you were last saying was altogether artificial
There was something in it that displeased you
What was it
It is impossible to explain such things
One can never communicate niceties of feeling about words and manner
You think I am shut out from understanding them
Have I shown myself so very dense to everything you have said
Not at all
But experience differs for different people. We don't all wince at the same things. I have had plenty of proof that you are not dense
But one may feel things and are not able to do anything better for all that
I begin to think we can only get better by having people about us who raise good feelings. You must not be surprised at anything in me. I think it is too late for me to alter. I don't know how to set about being wise, as you told me to be
I seldom find I do any good by my preaching. I might as well have kept from meddling
Don't say that
If you despair of me, I shall despair. Your saying that I should not go on being selfish and ignorant has been some strength to me. If you say you wish you had not meddled -- that means you despair of me and forsake me. And then you will decide for me that I shall not be good. It is you who will decide; because you might have made me different by keeping as near to me as you could, and believing in me
What an enviable fellow you are
sitting on a sofa with that young duchess, and having an interesting quarrel with her
Quarrel with her
Oh, about theology, of course; nothing personal. But she told you what you ought to think, and then left you with a grand air which was admirable. Is she an Antinomian -- if so, tell her I am an Antinomian painter, and introduce me. I should like to paint her and her husband. He has the sort of handsome _physique_ that the Duke ought to have in _Lucrezia Borgia_ -- if it could go with a fine baritone, which it can't
Lush will dine with us among the other people to-morrow. You will treat him civilly
You are breaking your promise to me -- the first promise you made me
I thought you did not intend him to frequent the house again
I want him just now. He is useful to me; and he must be treated civilly
If any one should importune me to give a reason why I loved him, I feel it could no otherwise be expressed than by making answer, 'Because it was he, because it was I.' There is, beyond what I am able to say, I know not what inexplicable power that brought on this union
I am as glad as you are that the pawnbroker is not her brother: there are Ezras and Ezras in the world; and really it is a comfort to think that all Jews are not like those shopkeepers who _will not_ let you get out of their shops: and besides, what he said to you about his mother and sister makes me bless him. I am sure he's good. But I never did like anything fanatical. I suppose I heard a little too much preaching in my youth and lost my palate for it
I don't think you will find that Mordecai obtrudes any preaching
He is not what I should call fanatical. I call a man fanatical when his enthusiasm is narrow and hoodwinked, so that he has no sense of proportions, and becomes unjust and unsympathetic to men who are out of his own track. Mordecai is an enthusiast; I should like to keep that word for the highest order of minds -- those who care supremely for grand and general benefits to mankind. He is not a strictly orthodox Jew, and is full of allowances for others; his conformity in many things is an allowance for the condition of other Jews. The people he lives with are as fond of him as possible, and they can't in the least understand his ideas
Oh, well, I can live up to the level of the pawnbroker's mother, and like him for what I see to be good in him; and for what I don't see the merits of I will take your word. According to your definition, I suppose one might be fanatical in worshipping common-sense; for my poor husband used to say the world would be a poor place if there were nothing but common- sense in it. However, Mirah's brother will have good bedding -- that I have taken care of; and I shall have this extra window pasted up with paper to prevent draughts
It is a comfort to think that the people of the house are no strangers to me -- no hypocritical harpies. And when the children know, we shall be able to make the rooms much prettier
The next stage of the affair is to tell all to Mordecai, and get him to move -- which may be a more difficult business
And will you tell Mirah before I say anything to the children
No, I think not. Let me tell Hans and the girls the evening before, and they will be away the next morning
Yes, that will be best. But do justice to my account of Mordecai -- or Ezra, as I suppose Mirah will wish to call him: don't assist their imagination by referring to Habakkuk Mucklewrath
Trust me, trust me
I shall have to persuade them so hard to be glad, that I shall convert myself. When I am frightened I find it a good thing to have somebody to be angry with for not being brave: it warms the blood
I suppose Mordecai is at home and expecting me
What do you want to talk to Mordecai about
Something that is very interesting to him
but that you can't understand
Can you say this
No, really
I can't say anything like it
I thought not
Mordecai, here's the young swell
You are coming to tell me something that my soul longs for
It is true I have something very weighty to tell you -- something I trust that you will rejoice in
It is all revealed -- it is made clear to you
You are even as my brother that sucked the breasts of my mother -- the heritage is yours -- there is no doubt to divide us
I have learned nothing new about myself
Except
except that I had really some time ago come into another sort of hidden connection with you, besides what you have spoken of as existing in your own feeling
I had made the acquaintance of one in whom you are interested
One who is closely related to your departed mother
whom she and you held dear above all others
What was prayed for has come to pass: Mirah has been delivered from evil
Your sister is worthy of the mother you honored
It was in search of them
that I turned into this house: the name Ezra Cohen was just then the most interesting name in the world to me. I confess I had fear for a long while. Perhaps you will forgive me now for having asked you that question about the elder Mrs. Cohen's daughter. I cared very much what I should find Mirah's friends to be. But I had found a brother worthy of her when I knew that her Ezra was disguised under the name of Mordecai
Mordecai is really my name -- Ezra Mordecai Cohen
Is there any kinship between this family and yours
Only the kinship of Israel. My soul clings to these people, who have sheltered me and given me succor out of the affection that abides in Jewish hearts, as sweet odor in things long crushed and hidden from the outer air. It is good for me to bear with their ignorance and be bound to them in gratitude, that I may keep in mind the spiritual poverty of the Jewish million, and not put impatient knowledge in the stead of loving wisdom
But you don't feel bound to continue with them now there is a closer tie to draw you
It seems to me right now -- is it not?-- that you should live with your sister; and I have prepared a home to take you to in the neighborhood of her friends, that she may join you there. Pray grant me this wish. It will enable me to be with you often in the hours when Mirah is obliged to leave you. That is my selfish reason. But the chief reason is, that Mirah will desire to watch over you, and that you ought to give her the guardianship of a brother's presence. You shall have books about you. I shall want to learn of you, and to take you out to see the river and trees. And you will have the rest and comfort that you will be more and more in need of -- nay, that I need for you. This is the claim I make on you, now that we have found each other
And you would have me hold it doubtful whether you were born a Jew! Have we not from the first touched each other with invisible fibres -- have we not quivered together like the leaves from a common stem with stirring from a common root? I know what I am outwardly, I am one among the crowd of poor -- I am stricken, I am dying. But our souls know each other. They gazed in silence as those who have long been parted and meet again, but when they found voice they were assured, and all their speech is understanding. The life of Israel is in your veins
What you wish of me I will do. And our mother -- may the blessing of the Eternal be with her in our souls!-- would have wished it too. I will accept what your loving kindness has prepared, and Mirah's home shall be mine
But I shall grieve to part from these parents and the little ones. You must tell them, for my heart would fail me
I felt that you would want me to tell them. Shall we go now at once
Yes; let us not defer it. It must be done
But do not dwell on my sister more than is needful
Ask your father to come, and tell Sarah to mind the shop. My friend has something to say
Well, sir! I'm glad you're doing us the honor to join our family party again. We are pretty comfortable, I think
I have just been telling Mordecai of an event that makes a great change in his life
but I hope you will agree with me that it is a joyful one. Since he thinks of you as his best friends, he wishes me to tell you for him at once
Relations with money, sir
No; not exactly
But a very precious relation wishes to be reunited to him -- a very good and lovely young sister, who will care for his comfort in every way
Married, sir
No, not married
But with a maintenance
With talents which will secure her a maintenance. A home is already provided for Mordecai
Well, well! and so you're going away from us, Mordecai
And where there's no children as there is here
No Jacob, and no Adelaide, and no Eugenie
Ay, ay, Jacob's learning 'ill all wear out of him. He must go to school. It'll be hard times for Jacob
Never mind, old man; you shall go to the riders
It's not as we're the people to grudge anybody's good luck, sir, or the portion of their cup being made fuller, as I may say. I'm not an envious man, and if anybody offered to set up Mordecai in a shop of my sort two doors lower down, _I_ shouldn't make wry faces about it. I'm not one of them that had need have a poor opinion of themselves, and be frightened at anybody else getting a chance. If I'm offal, let a wise man come and tell me, for I've never heard it yet. And in point of business, I'm not a class of goods to be in danger. If anybody takes to rolling me, I can pack myself up like a caterpillar, and find my feet when I'm let alone. And though, as I may say, you're taking some of our good works from us, which is property bearing interest, I'm not saying but we can afford that, though my mother and my wife had the good will to wish and do for Mordecai to the last; and a Jew must not be like a servant who works for reward -- though I see nothing against a reward if I can get it. And as to the extra outlay in schooling, I'm neither poor nor greedy -- I wouldn't hang myself for sixpence, nor half a crown neither. But the truth of it is, the women and children are fond of Mordecai. You may partly see how it is, sir, by your own sense. A Jewish man is bound to thank God, day by day, that he was not made a woman; but a woman has to thank God that He has made her according to His will. And we all know what He has made her -- a child- bearing, tender-hearted thing is the woman of our people. Her children are mostly stout, as I think you'll say Addy's are, and she's not mushy, but her heart is tender. So you must excuse present company, sir, for not being glad all at once. And as to this young lady -- for by what you say 'young lady' is the proper term
we shall all be glad for Mordecai's sake by-and-by, when we cast up our accounts and see where we are
Friends, friends! For food and raiment and shelter I would not have sought better than you have given me. You have sweetened the morsel with love; and what I thought of as a joy that would be left to me even in the last months of my waning strength was to go on teaching the lad. But now I am as one who had clad himself beforehand in his shroud, and used himself to making the grave his bed, when the divine command sounded in his ears, 'Arise, and go forth; the night is not yet come.' For no light matter would I have turned away from your kindness to take another's. But it has been taught us, as you know, that _the reward of one duty is the power to fulfill another_ -- so said Ben Azai. You have made your duty to one of the poor among your brethren a joy to you and me; and your reward shall be that you will not rest without the joy of like deeds in the time to come. And may not Jacob come and visit me
Surely that can be managed. It is no further than Brompton
Well
I hope there'll be nothing in the way of your getting _kosher_ meat, Mordecai. For you'll have to trust to those you live with
That's all right, that's all right, you may be sure, mother
So, sir
it was better than learning you had to talk to Mordecai about! I wondered to myself at the time. I thought somehow there was a something
Mordecai will perhaps explain to you how it was that I was seeking him
Mirah would wish to thank the Cohens for their goodness. You would wish her to do so -- to come and see them, would you not
I cannot tell. I fear not. There is a family sorrow, and the sight of my sister might be to them as the fresh bleeding of wounds. There is a daughter and sister who will never be restored as Mirah is. But who knows the pathways? We are all of us denying or fulfilling prayers -- and men in their careless deeds walk amidst invisible outstretched arms and pleadings made in vain. In my ears I have the prayers of generations past and to come. My life is as nothing to me but the beginning of fulfilment. And yet I am only another prayer -- which you will fulfil
And you must love him ere to you He will seem worthy of your love
seeing
Now, Kate, put out your candle, and all come round the fire cosily. Hans, dear, do leave off laughing at those poems for the ninety-ninth time, and come too. I have something wonderful to tell
As if I didn't know that, ma. I have seen it in the corner of your eye ever so long, and in your pretense of errands
Well, then, if you are so wise, perhaps you know that Mirah's brother is found
Oh, confound it
Hans, that is wicked
Suppose we had lost you
I _cannot_ help being rather sorry
And her mother?-- where is she
Her mother is dead
I hope the brother is not a bad man
Nor a fellow all smiles and jewelry -- a Crystal Palace Assyrian with a hat on
Were there ever such unfeeling children
You don't think the least bit of Mirah's joy in the matter
You know, ma, Mirah hardly remembers her brother
People who are lost for twelve years should never come back again
They are always in the way
Hans
If you had lost me for _twenty_ years, I should have thought
I said twelve years
Anywhere about twelve years is the time at which lost relations should keep out of the way
Well, but it's nice finding people -- there is something to tell
Did Prince Camaralzaman find him
Mr. Deronda has the highest admiration for him
seems quite to look up to him. And he says Mirah is just the sister to understand this brother
Deronda is getting perfectly preposterous about those Jews
He wants to do everything he can to encourage Mirah in her prejudices
Oh, for shame, Hans!-- to speak in that way of Mr. Deronda
And now we shall never be all together
but we must have this prophet Elijah to tea with us, and Mirah will think of nothing but sitting on the ruins of Jerusalem. She will be spoiled as an artist -- mind that -- she will get as narrow as a nun. Everything will be spoiled -- our home and everything. I shall take to drinking
Oh, really, Hans
I do think men are the most contemptible animals in all creation. Every one of them must have everything to his mind, else he is unbearable
Oh, oh, oh, it's very dreadful
I feel as if ancient Nineveh were come again
I should like to know what is the good of having gone to the university and knowing everything, if you are so childish, Hans
You ought to put up with a man that Providence sends you to be kind to. _We_ shall have to put up with him
I hope you will all of you like the new Lamentations of Jeremiah --'to be continued in our next'-- that's all
It's no use being one thing more than another if one has to endure the company of those men with a fixed idea, staring blankly at you, and requiring all your remarks to be small foot-notes to their text. If you're to be under a petrifying wall, you'd better be an old boot. I don't feel myself an old boot
Good night, little mother
Good-night, girls
Suppose Mirah knew how you are behaving
I _should_ like to see Mirah when Mr. Deronda tells her
I know she will look so beautiful
I must keep my old garments by me for a remembrance
You like to go in that dress, dear
My brother is poor, and I want to look as much like him as I can, else he may feel distant from me
Ezra
That was our mother's voice. You remember her calling me
Yes, and how you answered her --'Mother!'-- and I knew you loved her
Ah, the dear head, the dear head
You are very ill, Ezra
Yes, dear child, I shall not be long with you in the body
Oh, I will love you and we will talk to each other
I will tell you everything, and you will teach me:-- you will teach me to be a good Jewess -- what she would have liked me to be. I shall always be with you when I am not working. For I work now. I shall get money to keep us. Oh, I have had such good friends
See this dear lady
I was a stranger, a poor wanderer, and she believed in me, and has treated me as a daughter. Please give my brother your hand
The Eternal Goodness has been with you
You have helped to fulfill our mother's prayer
I think we will go now, shall we?-- and return later
brutes
Nothing makes a woman more of a gawky than looking out after people and showing tempers in public. A woman ought to have good manners. Else it's intolerable to appear with her
I think of making myself accomplished while we are in town, and having singing lessons
Why
Why
because I can't eat _pate de foie gras_ to make me sleepy, and I can't smoke, and I can't go to the club to make me like to come away again -- I want a variety of _ennui_. What would be the most convenient time, when you are busy with your lawyers and people, for me to have lessons from that little Jewess, whose singing is getting all the rage
Whenever you like
I don't see why a lady should sing. Amateurs make fools of themselves. A lady can't risk herself in that way in company. And one doesn't want to hear squalling in private
I like frankness: that seems to me a husband's great charm
But
I suppose you don't object to Miss Lapidoth's singing at our party on the fourth? I thought of engaging her. Lady Brackenshaw had her, you know: and the Raymonds, who are very particular about their music. And Mr. Deronda, who is a musician himself and a first-rate judge, says there is no singing in such good taste as hers for a drawing-room. I think his opinion is an authority
It's very indecent of Deronda to go about praising that girl
Indecent
to go about praising
Yes; and especially when she is patronized by Lady Mallinger. He ought to hold his tongue about her. Men can see what is his relation to her
Men who judge of others by themselves
Of course. And a woman should take their judgment -- else she is likely to run her head into the wrong place
I suppose you take Deronda for a saint
Oh dear no
Only a little less of a monster
It is not true! What does it matter whether _he_ believes it or not
Perhaps you wonder to see me -- perhaps I ought to have written -- but I wished to make a particular request
I am glad to see you instead of having a letter
Vandyke duchess
I thought
at least I hoped, you would not object to sing at our house on the 4th -- in the evening -- at a party like Lady Brackenshaw's. I should be so much obliged
I shall be very happy to sing for you. At ten
At ten, please
Mr. Deronda is in the next room
Yes
He is reading Hebrew with my brother
You have a brother
Yes, a dear brother who is ill-consumptive, and Mr. Deronda is the best of friends to him, as he has been to me
Tell me
tell me -- tell me the truth. You are sure he is quite good. You know no evil of him. Any evil that people say of him is false
Who are the people that say evil of him? I would not believe any evil of him, if an angel came to tell it me. He found me when I was so miserable -- I was going to drown myself; I looked so poor and forsaken; you would have thought I was a beggar by the wayside. And he treated me as if I had been a king's daughter. He took me to the best of women. He found my brother for me. And he honors my brother -- though he too was poor -- oh, almost as poor as he could be. And my brother honors him. That is no light thing to say
for my brother is very learned and great-minded. And Mr. Deronda says there are few men equal to him
Thank you, thank you
I must go, I shall see you -- on the fourth -- I am so much obliged
May I ask where you have been at this extraordinary hour
Oh, yes; I have been to Miss Lapidoth's, to ask her to come and sing for us
And to ask her about her relations with Deronda
Yes; and what you said is false -- a low, wicked falsehood
She told you so -- did she
It's of no consequence so far as her singing goes
You can have her to sing, if you like
But you will please to observe that you are not to go near that house again. As my wife, you must take my word about what is proper for you. When you undertook to be Mrs. Grandcourt, you undertook not to make a fool of yourself. You have been making a fool of yourself this morning; and if you were to go on as you have begun, you might soon get yourself talked of at the clubs in a way you would not like. What do _you_ know about the world? You have married _me_, and must be guided by my opinion
A -- Gwendolen, there's some business about property to be explained. I have told Lush to come and explain it to you. He knows all about these things. I am going out. He can come up now. He's the only person who can explain. I suppose you'll not mind
You know that I do mind
I shall not see him
It's no use making a fuss. There are plenty of brutes in the world that one has to talk to. People with any _savoir vivre_ don't make a fuss about such things. Some business must be done. You can't expect agreeable people to do it. If I employ Lush, the proper thing for you is to take it as a matter of course. Not to make a fuss about it. Not to toss your head and bite your lips about people of that sort
I have arranged for Lush to come up now, while I am out
Shall I tell him he may come
Yes
I shall come back in time to ride, if you like to get ready
She is in a desperate rage
Don't make yourself more disagreeable than nature obliges you
That depends
I will write a brief abstract for Mrs. Grandcourt to read
How do you do
I need hardly say that I should not have presented myself if Mr. Grandcourt had not expressed a strong wish to that effect -- as no doubt he has mentioned to you
My having been in Mr. Grandcourt's confidence for fifteen years or more -- since he was a youth, in fact -- of course gives me a peculiar position. He can speak to me of affairs that he could not mention to any one else; and, in fact, he could not have employed any one else in this affair. I have accepted the task out of friendship for him. Which is my apology for accepting the task -- if you would have preferred some one else
This paper contains some information about Mr. Grandcourt's will, an abstract of a part he wished you to know -- if you'll be good enough to cast your eyes over it. But there is something I had to say by way of introduction -- which I hope you'll pardon me for, if it's not quite agreeable
not quite agreeable
Say what you have to say without apologizing, please
I have only to remind you of something that occurred before your engagement to Mr. Grandcourt
You met a lady in Cardell Chase, if you remember, who spoke to you of her position with regard to Mr. Grandcourt. She had children with her -- one a very fine boy
Mr. Grandcourt was aware that you were acquainted with this unfortunate affair beforehand, and he thinks it only right that his position and intentions should be made quite clear to you. It is an affair of property and prospects; and if there were any objection you had to make, if you would mention it to me -- it is a subject which of course he would rather not speak about himself -- if you will be good enough just to read this
Lay it on the table. And go into the next room, please
My lady winces considerably. She didn't know what would be the charge for that superfine article, Henleigh Grandcourt
Tell Mr. Grandcourt that his arrangements are just what I desired
I will insist on being separated from him
I will leave him whether he consents or not. If this boy becomes his heir, I have made an atonement
insist on separation
If I am to have misery anyhow
I had better have the misery that I can keep to myself
You might at least have raised your hat to her
I wish you would come and see me to-morrow between five and six, Mr. Deronda
Certainly
How do you do
You will wonder why. I begged you to come. I wanted to ask you something. You said I was ignorant. That is true. And what can I do but ask you
My only regret is, that I can be of so little use to you
I wanted to tell you that I have always been thinking of your advice, but is it any use?-- I can't make myself different, because things about me raise bad feelings -- and I must go on -- I can alter nothing -- it is no use
But if I go on I shall get worse. I want not to get worse. I should like to be what you wish. There are people who are good and enjoy great things -- I know there are. I am a contemptible creature. I feel as if I should get wicked with hating people. I have tried to think that I would go away from everybody. But I can't. There are so many things to hinder me. You think, perhaps, that I don't mind. But I do mind. I am afraid of everything. I am afraid of getting wicked. Tell me what I can do
Confess everything to your husband; have nothing concealed
I will not stay longer now. Good bye
I am going yachting to the Mediterranean
When
The day after to-morrow. The yacht is at Marseilles. Lush is gone to get everything ready
Shall I have mamma to stay with me, then
No; you will go with me
thank you
I shall not see you again for a long while: I am going away
Come immediately. Something has happened
It is nothing to grieve you, sir
No, Dan, no. Sit down. I have something to say
Not to grieve me, my boy, no. At least, if there is nothing in it that will grieve you too much. But I hardly expected that this -- just this -- would ever happen. There have been reasons why I have never prepared you for it. There have been reasons why I have never told you anything about your parentage. But I have striven in every way not to make that an injury to you
I have never felt it an injury
I have acted in obedience to your mother's wishes. The secrecy was her wish. But now she desires to remove it. She desires to see you. I will put this letter into your hands, which you can look at by-and-by. It will merely tell you what she wishes you to do, and where you will find her
Is my father also living
No
Perhaps I was wrong, Dan, to undertake what I did. And perhaps I liked it a little too well -- having you all to myself. But if you have had any pain which I might have helped, I ask you to forgive me
The forgiveness has long been there
The chief pain has always been on account of some one else -- whom I never knew -- whom I am now to know. It has not hindered me from feeling an affection for you which has made a large part of all the life I remember
If some mortal, born too soon, Were laid away in some great trance -- the ages Coming and going all the while -- till dawned His true time's advent; and could then record The words they spoke who kept watch by his bed, Then I might tell more of the breath so light Upon my eyelids, and the fingers warm Among my hair. Youth is confused; yet never So dull was I but, when that spirit passed, I turned to him, scarce consciously, as turns A water-snake when fairies cross his sleep
I am going to learn the truth about my birth
I will ask to have the child Jacob to stay with me
I will drive round and ask Mrs. Cohen to let him come
The grandmother will deny you nothing
I'm glad you were a little wrong as well as I
You thought that old Mrs. Cohen would not bear to see Mirah
I undervalued her heart
She is capable of rejoicing that another's plant blooms though her own be withered
Oh, they are dear good people; I feel as if we all belonged to each other
What should you have felt if that Ezra had been your brother
He is not a bad man -- I think he would never forsake any one
If he should come and find us
God bless you, Dan
Whatever else changes for you, it can't change my being the oldest friend you have known, and the one who has all along felt the most for you. I couldn't have loved you better if you'd been my own-only I should have been better pleased with thinking of you always as the future master of the Abbey instead of my fine nephew; and then you would have seen it necessary for you to take a political line. However -- things must be as they may
remain near her -- must not forsake her
Lamenti saettaron me diversi Ca che di piefermti avean gli strali
You are a beautiful creature
I knew you would be
I am your mother. But you can have no love for me
I have thought of you more than of any other being in the world
I am not like what you thought I was
I used to think that you might be suffering
I used to wish that I could be a comfort to you
I _am_ suffering. But with a suffering that you can't comfort
Sit down
I am not suffering at this moment. I am at ease now. I am able to talk
No
I did not send for you to comfort me. I could not know beforehand -- I don't know now -- what you will feel toward me. I have not the foolish notion that you can love me merely because I am your mother, when you have never seen or heard of me in all your life. But I thought I chose something better for you than being with me. I did not think I deprived you of anything worth having
You cannot wish me to believe that your affection would not have been worth having
I don't mean to speak ill of myself
But I had not much affection to give you. I did not want affection. I had been stifled with it. I wanted to live out the life that was in me, and not to be hampered with other lives. You wonder what I was. I was no princess then
No princess in this tame life that I live in now. I was a great singer, and I acted as well as I sang. All the rest were poor beside me. Men followed me from one country to another. I was lining a myriad lives in one. I did not want a child
I did not want to marry. I was forced into marrying your father -- forced, I mean, by my father's wishes and commands; and besides, it was my best way of getting some freedom. I could rule my husband, but not my father. I had a right to be free. I had a right to seek my freedom from a bondage that I hated
And the bondage I hated for myself I wanted to keep you from. What better could the most loving mother have done? I relieved you from the bondage of having been born a Jew
Then I _am_ a Jew
My father was a Jew, and you are a Jewess
Yes, your father was my cousin
I am glad of it
Why do you say you are glad? You are an English gentleman. I secured you that
You did not know what you secured me. How could you choose my birthright for me
I chose for you what I would have chosen for myself. How could I know that you would have the spirit of my father in you? How could I know that you would love what I hated?-- if you really love to be a Jew
Forgive me, if I speak hastily
Why have you resolved now on disclosing to me what you took care to have me brought up in ignorance of? Why -- since you seem angry that I should be glad
Oh -- the reasons of our actions
When you are as old as I am, it will not seem so simple a question --'Why did you do this?' People talk of their motives in a cut and dried way. Every woman is supposed to have the same set of motives, or else to be a monster. I am not a monster, but I have not felt exactly what other women feel -- or say they feel, for fear of being thought unlike others. When you reproach me in your heart for sending you away from me, you mean that I ought to say I felt about you as other women say they feel about their children. I did _not_ feel that. I was glad to be freed from you. But I did well for you, and I gave you your father's fortune. Do I seem now to be revoking everything?-- Well, there are reasons. I feel many things that I cannot understand. A fatal illness has been growing in me for a year. I shall very likely not live another year. I will not deny anything I have done. I will not pretend to love where I have no love. But shadows are rising round me. Sickness makes them. If I have wronged the dead -- I have but little time to do what I left undone
Sir Hugo has written much about you. He tells me you have a wonderful mind -- you comprehend everything -- you are wiser than he is with all his sixty years. You say you are glad to know that you were born a Jew. I am not going to tell you that I have changed my mind about that. Your feelings are against mine. You don't thank me for what I did. Shall you comprehend your mother, or only blame her
There is not a fibre within me but makes me wish to comprehend her
It is a bitter reversal of my longing to think of blaming her. What I have been most trying to do for fifteen years is to have some understanding of those who differ from myself
Then you have become unlike your grandfather in that
though you are a young copy of him in your face. He never comprehended me, or if he did, he only thought of fettering me into obedience. I was to be what he called 'the Jewish woman' under pain of his curse. I was to feel everything I did not feel, and believe everything I did not believe. I was to feel awe for the bit of parchment in the _mezuza_ over the door; to dread lest a bit of butter should touch a bit of meat; to think it beautiful that men should bind the _tephillin_ on them, and women not,-- to adore the wisdom of such laws, however silly they might seem to me. I was to love the long prayers in the ugly synagogue, and the howling, and the gabbling, and the dreadful fasts, and the tiresome feasts, and my father's endless discoursing about our people, which was a thunder without meaning in my ears. I was to care forever about what Israel had been; and I did not care at all. I cared for the wide world, and all that I could represent in it. I hated living under the shadow of my father's strictness. Teaching, teaching for everlasting --'this you must be,' 'that you must not be'-- pressed on me like a frame that got tighter and tighter as I grew. I wanted to live a large life, with freedom to do what every one else did, and be carried along in a great current, not obliged to care. Ah
you are glad to have been born a Jew. You say so. That is because you have not been brought up as a Jew. That separateness seems sweet to you because I saved you from it
When you resolved on that, you meant that I should never know my origin
You have at least changed in your feeling on that point
Yes, that was what I meant. That is what I persevered in. And it is not true to say that I have changed. Things have changed in spite of me. I am still the same Leonora
here within me is the same desire, the same will, the same choice, _but_
events come upon us like evil enchantments: and thoughts, feelings, apparitions in the darkness are events -- are they not? I don't consent. We only consent to what we love. I obey something tyrannic
I am forced to be withered, to feel pain, to be dying slowly. Do I love that? Well, I have been forced to obey my dead father. I have been forced to tell you that you are a Jew, and deliver to you what he commanded me to deliver
I beseech you to tell me what moved you -- when you were young, I mean -- to take the course you did
I gather that my grandfather opposed your bent to be an artist. Though my own experience has been quite different, I enter into the painfulness of your struggle. I can imagine the hardship of an enforced renunciation
No
You are not a woman. You may try -- but you can never imagine what it is to have a man's force of genius in you, and yet to suffer the slavery of being a girl. To have a pattern cut out -- 'this is the Jewish woman; this is what you must be; this is what you are wanted for; a woman's heart must be of such a size and no larger, else it must be pressed small, like Chinese feet; her happiness is to be made as cakes are, by a fixed receipt.' That was what my father wanted. He wished I had been a son; he cared for me as a make-shift link. His heart was set on his Judaism. He hated that Jewish women should be thought of by the Christian world as a sort of ware to make public singers and actresses of. As if we were not the more enviable for that! That is a chance of escaping from bondage
Was my grandfather a learned man
Oh, yes,-- and a clever physician -- and good: I don't deny that he was good. A man to be admired in a play -- grand, with an iron will. Like the old Foscari before he pardons. But such men turn their wives and daughters into slaves. They would rule the world if they could; but not ruling the world, they throw all the weight of their will on the necks and souls of women. But nature sometimes thwarts them. My father had no other child than his daughter, and she was like himself
Your father was different. Unlike me -- all lovingness and affection. I knew I could rule him; and I made him secretly promise me, before I married him, that he would put no hindrance in the way of my being an artist. My father was on his deathbed when we were married: from the first he had fixed his mind on my marrying my cousin Ephraim. And when a woman's will is as strong as the man's who wants to govern her, half her strength must be concealment. I meant to have my will in the end, but I could only have it by seeming to obey. I had an awe of my father -- always I had had an awe of him: it was impossible to help it. I hated to feel awed -- I wished I could have defied him openly; but I never could. It was what I could not imagine: I could not act it to myself that I should begin to defy my father openly and succeed. And I never would risk failure
Tell me only what is necessary
Where was my grandfather's home
Here in Genoa, where I was married; and his family had lived here generations ago. But my father had been in various countries
You must surely have lived in England
My mother was English -- a Jewess of Portuguese descent. My father married her in England. Certain circumstances of that marriage made all the difference in my life: through that marriage my father thwarted his own plans. My mother's sister was a singer, and afterward she married the English partner of a merchant's house here in Genoa, and they came and lived here eleven years. My mother died when I was eight years old, and my father allowed me to be continually with my Aunt Leonora and be taught under her eyes, as if he had not minded the danger of her encouraging my wish to be a singer, as she had been. But this was it -- I saw it again and again in my father:-- he did not guard against consequences, because he felt sure he could hinder them if he liked. Before my aunt left Genoa, I had had enough teaching to bring out the born singer and actress within me: my father did not know everything that was done; but he knew that I was taught music and singing -- he knew my inclination. That was nothing to him: he meant that I should obey his will. And he was resolved that I should marry my cousin Ephraim, the only one left of my father's family that he knew. I wanted not to marry. I thought of all plans to resist it, but at last I found that I could rule my cousin, and I consented. My father died three weeks after we were married, and then I had my way
It has not lasted, though. My father is getting his way now
You are like him -- but milder -- there is something of your own father in you; and he made it the labor of his life to devote himself to me: wound up his money-changing and banking, and lived to wait upon me -- he went against his conscience for me. As I loved the life of my art, so he loved me. Let me look at your hand again: the hand with the ring on. It was your father's ring
Mother! take us all into your heart -- the living and the dead. Forgive every thing that hurts you in the past. Take my affection
I reject nothing, but I have nothing to give
It is better so. We must part again soon and you owe me no duties. I did not wish you to be born. I parted with you willingly. When your father died I resolved that I would have no more ties, but such as I could free myself from. I was the Alcharisi you have heard of: the name had magic wherever it was carried. Men courted me. Sir Hugo Mallinger was one who wished to marry me. He was madly in love with me. One day I asked him, 'Is there a man capable of doing something for love of me, and expecting nothing in return?' He said: 'What is it you want done?' I said, 'Take my boy and bring him up as an Englishman, and never let him know anything about his parents.' You were little more than two years old, and were sitting on his foot. He declared that he would pay money to have such a boy. I had not meditated much on the plan beforehand, but as soon as I had spoken about it, it took possession of me as something I could not rest without doing. At first he thought I was not serious, but I convinced him, and he was never surprised at anything. He agreed that it would be for your good, and the finest thing for you. A great singer and actress is a queen, but she gives no royalty to her son. All that happened at Naples. And afterward I made Sir Hugo the trustee of your fortune. That is what I did; and I had a joy in doing it. My father had tyrannized over me -- he cared more about a grandson to come than he did about me: I counted as nothing. You were to be such a Jew as he; you were to be what he wanted. But you were my son, and it was my turn to say what you should be. I said you should not know you were a Jew
And for months events have been preparing me to be glad that I am a Jew
It would always have been better that I should have known the truth. I have always been rebelling against the secrecy that looked like shame. It is no shame to have Jewish parents -- the shame is to disown it
You say it was a shame to me, then, that I used that secrecy
There is no shame attaching to me. I have no reason to be ashamed. I rid myself of the Jewish tatters and gibberish that make people nudge each other at sight of us, as if we were tattooed under our clothes, though our faces are as whole as theirs. I delivered you from the pelting contempt that pursues Jewish separateness. I am not ashamed that I did it. It was the better for you
Then why have you now undone the secrecy?-- no, not undone it -- the effects will never be undone. But why have you now sent for me to tell me that I am a Jew
Why?-- ah, why
I can't explain; I can only say what is. I don't love my father's religion now any more than I did then. Before I married the second time I was baptized; I made myself like the people I lived among. I had a right to do it; I was not like a brute, obliged to go with my own herd. I have not repented; I will not say that I have repented. But yet
It is illness, I don't doubt that it has been gathering illness -- my mind has gone back: more than a year ago it began. You see my gray hair, my worn look: it has all come fast. Sometimes I am in an agony of pain -- I dare say I shall be to-night. Then it is as if all the life I have chosen to live, all thoughts, all will, forsook me and left me alone in spots of memory, and I can't get away: my pain seems to keep me there. My childhood -- my girlhood -- the day of my marriage -- the day of my father's death -- there seems to be nothing since. Then a great horror comes over me: what do I know of life or death? and what my father called 'right' may be a power that is laying hold of me -- that is clutching me now. Well, I will satisfy him. I cannot go into the darkness without satisfying him. I have hidden what was his. I thought once I would burn it. I have not burned it. I thank God I have not burned it
Will you not spare yourself this evening? Let us leave the rest till to- morrow
No
I will confess it all, now that I have come up to it. Often when I am at ease it all fades away; my whole self comes quite back; but I know it will sink away again, and the other will come -- the poor, solitary, forsaken remains of self, that can resist nothing. It was my nature to resist, and say, 'I have a right to resist.' Well, I say so still when I have any strength in me. You have heard me say it, and I don't withdraw it. But when my strength goes, some other right forces itself upon me like iron in an inexorable hand; and even when I am at ease, it is beginning to make ghosts upon the daylight. And now you have made it worse for me
but I shall have told you everything. And what reproach is there against me
since I have made you glad to be a Jew? Joseph Kalonymos reproached me: he said you had been turned into a proud Englishman, who resented being touched by a Jew. I wish you had
Who is Joseph Kalonymos
Ah! some vengeance sent him back from the East, that he might see you and come to reproach me. He was my father's friend. He knew of your birth: he knew of my husband's death, and once, twenty years ago, after he had been away in the Levant, he came to see me and inquire about you. I told him that you were dead: I meant you to be dead to all the world of my childhood. If I had said that your were living, he would have interfered with my plans: he would have taken on him to represent my father, and have tried to make me recall what I had done. What could I do but say you were dead? The act was done. If I had told him of it there would have been trouble and scandal -- and all to conquer me, who would not have been conquered. I was strong then, and I would have had my will, though there might have been a hard fight against me. I took the way to have it without any fight. I felt then that I was not really deceiving: it would have come to the same in the end; or if not to the same, to something worse. He believed me and begged that I would give up to him the chest that my father had charged me and my husband to deliver to our eldest son. I knew what was in the chest -- things that had been dinned in my ears since I had had any understanding -- things that were thrust on my mind that I might feel them like a wall around my life -- my life that was growing like a tree. Once, after my husband died, I was going to burn the chest. But it was difficult to burn; and burning a chest and papers looks like a shameful act. I have committed no shameful act -- except what Jews would call shameful. I had kept the chest, and I gave it to Joseph Kalonymos. He went away mournful, and said, 'If you marry again, and if another grandson is born to him who is departed, I will deliver up the chest to him.' I bowed in silence. I meant not to marry again -- no more than I meant to be the shattered woman that I am now
But months ago this Kalonymos saw you in the synagogue at Frankfort. He saw you enter the hotel, and he went to ask your name. There was nobody else in the world to whom the name would have told anything about me
Then it is not my real name
Oh, as real as another
The Jews have always been changing their names. My father's family had kept the name of Charisi: my husband was a Charisi. When I came out as a singer, we made it Alcharisi. But there had been a branch of the family my father had lost sight of who called themselves Deronda, and when I wanted a name for you, and Sir Hugo said, 'Let it be a foreign name,' I thought of Deronda. But Joseph Kalonymos had heard my father speak of the Deronda branch, and the name confirmed his suspicion. He began to suspect what had been done. It was as if everything had been whispered to him in the air. He found out where I was. He took a journey into Russia to see me; he found me weak and shattered. He had come back again, with his white hair, and with rage in his soul against me. He said I was going down to the grave clad in falsehood and robbery -- falsehood to my father and robbery of my own child. He accused me of having kept the knowledge of your birth from you, and having brought you up as if you had been the son of an English gentleman. Well, it was true; and twenty years before I would have maintained that I had a right to do it. But I can maintain nothing now. No faith is strong within me. My father may have God on his side. This man's words were like lion's teeth upon me. My father's threats eat into me with my pain. If I tell everything -- if I deliver up everything -- what else can be demanded of me? I cannot make myself love the people I have never loved -- is it not enough that I lost the life I did love
Mother, take comfort
Is it not possible that I could be near you often and comfort you
No, not possible
I have a husband and five children. None of them know of your existence
You wonder why I married
I meant never to marry again. I meant to be free and to live for my art. I had parted with you. I had no bonds. For nine years I was a queen. I enjoyed the life I had longed for. But something befell me. It was like a fit of forgetfulness. I began to sing out of tune. They told me of it. Another woman was thrusting herself in my place. I could not endure the prospect of failure and decline. It was horrible to me
It drove me to marry. I made believe that I preferred being the wife of a Russian noble to being the greatest lyric actress of Europe; I made believe -- I acted that part. It was because I felt my greatness sinking away from me, as I feel my life sinking now. I would not wait till men said, 'She had better go
I repented. It was a resolve taken in desperation. That singing out of tune was only like a fit of illness; it went away. I repented; but it was too late. I could not go back. All things hindered, me -- all things
I can bear no more now
Stay. How do I know that I can see you again? I cannot bear to be seen when I am in pain
This is addressed to the banking-house in Mainz, where you are to go for your grandfather's chest. It is a letter written by Joseph Kalonymos: if he is not there himself, this order of his will be obeyed
Kneel again, and let me kiss you
You see, I had no life left to love you with
But there is more fortune for you. Sir Hugo was to keep it in reserve. I gave you all your father's fortune. They can never accuse me of robbery there
If you had needed anything I would have worked for you
I need nothing that the skill of man can give me
But perhaps now I have satisfied my father's will, your face will come instead of his -- your young, loving face
But you will see me again
Yes -- perhaps. Wait, wait. Leave me now
La meme fermete qui sert a resister a l'amour sert aussi a le rendre violent et durable; et les personnes faibles qui sont toujours agitees des passions n'en sont presque jamais veritablement remplies
time will show
No! are you
A wretch so empty that if e'er there be In nature found the least vacuity 'Twill be in him
My good fellow, your attempts at the historic and poetic are simply pitiable. Your brush is just that of a successful portrait-painter -- it has a little truth and a great facility in falsehood -- your idealism will never do for gods and goddesses and heroic story, but it may fetch a high price as flattery. Fate, my friend, has made you the hinder wheel -- _rota posterior curras, et in axe secundo_ -- run behind, because you can't help it
O night, O blackness, etc., etc
understood that sort of learning and what is writ about it
hair is like a flock of goats on Mount Gilead
Already he is beginning to play at love: he is taking the whole affair as a comedy
he knows very well that there is no chance for him. Just like him -- never opening his eyes on any possible objection I could have to receive his outpourings about Mirah. Poor old Hans! If we were under a fiery hail together he would howl like a Greek, and if I did not howl too it would never occur to him that I was as badly off as he. And yet he is tender-hearted and affectionate in intention, and I can't say that he is not active in imagining what goes on in other people -- but then he always imagines it to fit his own inclination
Ezra, how is it
I am continually going to speak to Mr. Deronda as if he were a Jew
I suppose it is because he treats us as if he were our brother. But he loves not to have the difference of birth dwelt upon
He has never lived with his parents, Mr. Hans, says
Seek not to know such things from Mr. Hans
What Daniel Deronda wishes us to know about himself is for him to tell us
I see no one so great as my brother
It is difficult to think that he belongs to the same world as those people I used to live amongst. I told you once that they made life seem like a madhouse; but when I am with Ezra he makes me feel that his life is a great good, though he has suffered so much; not like me, who wanted to die because I had suffered a little, and only for a little while. His soul is so full, it is impossible for him to wish for death as I did. I get the same sort of feeling from him that I got yesterday, when I was tired, and came home through the park after the sweet rain had fallen and the sunshine lay on the grass and flowers. Everything in the sky and under the sky looked so pure and beautiful that the weariness and trouble and folly seemed only a small part of what is, and I became more patient and hopeful
Is there any fresh trouble on your mind, my dear
I am too ready to speak of troubles, I think. It seems unkind to put anything painful into other people's minds, unless one were sure it would hinder something worse. And perhaps I am too hasty and fearful
Oh, my dear, mothers are made to like pain and trouble for the sake of their children. Is it because the singing lessons are so few, and are likely to fall off when the season comes to an end? Success in these things can't come all at once
No, not that
I have been a little disappointed because so many ladies said they wanted me to give them or their daughters lessons, and then I never heard of them again, But perhaps after the holidays I shall teach in some schools. Besides, you know, I am as rich as a princess now. I have not touched the hundred pounds that Mrs. Klesmer gave me; and I should never be afraid that Ezra would be in want of anything, because there is Mr. Deronda
It is the chief honor of my life that your brother will share anything with me. Oh, no! Ezra and I can have no fears for each other about such things as food and clothing
But there is some other fear on your mind
a fear of something that may disturb your peace; Don't be forecasting evil, dear child, unless it is what you can guard against. Anxiety is good for nothing if we can't turn it into a defense. But there's no defense against all the things that might be. Have you any more reason for being anxious now than you had a month ago
Yes, I have
I have kept it from Ezra. I have not dared to tell him. Pray forgive me that I can't do without telling you. I _have_ more reason for being anxious. It is five days ago now. I am quite sure I saw my father
The year has changed him
He had already been much altered and worn in the time before I left him. You remember I said how he used sometimes to cry. He was always excited one way or the other. I have told Ezra everything that I told you, and he says that my father had taken to gambling, which makes people easily distressed, and then again exalted. And now -- it was only a moment that I saw him -- his face was more haggard, and his clothes were shabby. He was with a much worse-looking man, who carried something, and they were hurrying along after an omnibus
Well, child, he did not see you, I hope
No. I had just come from Mrs. Raymond's, and I was waiting to cross near the Marble Arch. Soon he was on the omnibus and gone out of sight. It was a dreadful moment. My old life seemed to have come back again, and it was worse than it had ever been before. And I could not help feeling it a new deliverance that he was gone out of sight without knowing that I was there. And yet it hurt me that I was feeling so -- it seemed hateful in me -- almost like words I once had to speak in a play, that 'I had warmed my hands in the blood of my kindred.' For where might my father be going? What may become of him? And his having a daughter who would own him in spite of all, might have hindered the worst. Is there any pain like seeing what ought to be the best things in life turned into the worst? All those opposite feelings were meeting and pressing against each other, and took up all my strength. No one could act that. Acting is slow and poor to what we go through within. I don't know how I called a cab. I only remember that I was in it when I began to think, 'I cannot tell Ezra; he must not know
You are afraid of grieving him
Yes -- and there is something more
I want to tell you; I cannot tell any one else. I could not have told my own mother: I should have closed it up before her. I feel shame for my father, and it is perhaps strange -- but the shame is greater before Ezra than before any one else in the world. He desired me to tell him all about my life, and I obeyed him. But it is always like a smart to me to know that those things about my father are in Ezra's mind. And -- can you believe it? when the thought haunts me how it would be if my father were to come and show himself before us both, what seems as if it would scorch me most is seeing my father shrinking before Ezra. That is the truth. I don't know whether it is a right feeling. But I can't help thinking that I would rather try to maintain my father in secret, and bear a great deal in that way, if I could hinder him from meeting my brother
You must not encourage that feeling, Mirah
It would be very dangerous; it would be wrong. You must not have concealment of that sort
But ought I now to tell Ezra that I have seen my father
No
I don't know that it is necessary to do that. Your father may go away with the birds. It is not clear that he came after you; you may never see him again. And then your brother will have been spared a useless anxiety. But promise me that if your father sees you -- gets hold of you in any way again -- and you will let us all know. Promise me that solemnly, Mirah. I have a right to ask it
Since you ask it, I do promise. I will bear this feeling of shame. I have been so long used to think that I must bear that sort of inward pain. But the shame for my father burns me more when I think of his meeting Ezra
And we are his children -- and he was once young like us -- and my mother loved him. Oh! I cannot help seeing it all close, and it hurts me like a cruelty
Think of our surprise, Mirah
We were speaking of Mr. Deronda and the Mallingers, and it turns out that Miss Gascoigne knows them
I only knew about them
I have not even seen them. But some months ago, my cousin married Sir Hugo Mallinger's nephew, Mr. Grandcourt, who lived in Sir Hugo's place at Diplow, near us
There
Something must come of that. Mrs. Grandcourt, the Vandyke duchess, is your cousin
Oh, yes; I was her bridesmaid
Her mamma and mine are sisters. My aunt was much richer before last year, but then she and mamma lost all their fortune. Papa is a clergyman, you know, so it makes very little difference to us, except that we keep no carriage, and have no dinner parties -- and I like it better. But it was very sad for poor Aunt Davilow, for she could not live with us, because she has four daughters besides Gwendolen; but then, when she married Mr. Grandcourt, it did not signify so much, because of his being so rich
Oh, this finding out relationships is delightful
It is like a Chinese puzzle that one has to fit together. I feel sure something wonderful may be made of it, but I can't tell what
Dear me, Mab
relationships must branch out. The only difference is, that we happen to know some of the people concerned. Such things are going on every day
And pray, Amy, why do you insist on the number nine being so wonderful
I am sure that is happening every day. Never mind, Miss Gascoigne; please go on. And Mr. Deronda?-- have you never seen Mr. Deronda? You _must_ bring him in
No, I have not seen him
but he was at Diplow before my cousin was married, and I have heard my aunt speaking of him to papa. She said what you have been saying about him -- only not so much: I mean, about Mr. Deronda living with Sir Hugo Mallinger, and being so nice, she thought. We talk a great deal about every one who comes near Pennicote, because it is so seldom there is any one new. But I remember, when I asked Gwendolen what she thought of Mr. Deronda, she said, 'Don't mention it, Anna: but I think his hair is dark.' That was her droll way of answering: she was always so lively. It is really rather wonderful that I should come to hear so much about him, all through Mr. Hans knowing Rex, and then my having the pleasure of knowing you
The pleasure is on our side too; but the wonder would have been, if you had come to this house without hearing of Mr. Deronda -- wouldn't it, Mirah
My son calls Mrs. Grandcourt the Vandyke duchess
he thinks her so striking and picturesque
Yes
Gwendolen was always so beautiful -- people fell dreadfully in love with her. I thought it a pity, because it made them unhappy
And how do you like Mr. Grandcourt, the happy lover
Papa approved of Gwendolen's accepting him, and my aunt says he is very generous
else I should have thought he was not very nice -- rather proud, and not at all lively, like Gwendolen. I should have thought some one younger and more lively would have suited her better. But, perhaps, having a brother who seems to us better than any one makes us think worse of others
Wait till you see Mr. Deronda
Nobody's brother will do after him
Our brothers _must_ do for people's husbands
because they will not get Mr. Deronda. No woman will do for him to marry
No woman ought to want him to marry him
_I_ never should. Fancy finding out that he had a tailor's bill, and used boot-hooks, like Hans. Who ever thought of his marrying
I have
When I drew a wedding for a frontispiece to 'Hearts and Diamonds,' I made a sort of likeness to him for the bridegroom, and I went about looking for a grand woman who would do for his countess, but I saw none that would not be poor creatures by the side of him
You should have seen this Mrs. Grandcourt then
Hans says that she and Mr. Deronda set each other off when they are side by side. She is tall and fair. But you know her, Mirah -- you can always say something descriptive. What do _you_ think of Mrs. Grandcourt
I think she is the _Princess of Eboli_ in _Don Carlos_
Your comparison is a riddle for me, my dear
You said that Mrs. Grandcourt was tall and fair
That is quite true
Mrs. Grandcourt had thought of having lessons of Mirah
But many have talked of having lessons, and then have found no time. Fashionable ladies have too much work to do
Ezra, does it ever hurt your love for Mr. Deronda that so much of his life was all hidden away from you -- that he is amongst persons and cares about persons who are all so unlike us -- I mean unlike you
No, assuredly no
Rather it is a precious thought to me that he has a preparation which I lacked, and is an accomplished Egyptian
I have the more to give him, since his treasure differs from mine. That is a blessedness in friendship
Still
it would be a trial to your love for him if that other part of his life were like a crowd in which he had got entangled, so that he was carried away from you -- I mean in his thoughts, and not merely carried out of sight as he is now -- and not merely for a little while, but continually. How should you bear that! Our religion commands us to bear. But how should you bear it
Not well, my sister -- not well; but it will never happen
Shall I tell you what is the difference between you and me, Ezra? You are a spring in the drought, and I am an acorn-cup; the waters of heaven fill me, but the least little shake leaves me empty
Why, what has shaken thee
Thoughts
thoughts that come like the breeze and shake me -- bad people, wrong things, misery -- and how they might touch our life
We must take our portion, Mirah. It is there. On whose shoulder would we lay it, that we might be free
I leave to-day. Come and see me at once
You are quite relieved now, I trust
Yes, I am at ease again. Is there anything more that you would like to ask me
Can I find the house in Genoa where you used to live with my grandfather
No
it is pulled down -- not to be found. But about our family, and where my father lived at various times -- you will find all that among the papers in the chest, better than I can tell you. My father, I told you, was a physician. My mother was a Morteira. I used to hear all those things without listening. You will find them all. I was born amongst them without my will. I banished them as soon as I could
Anything else that I should desire to know from you could only be what it is some satisfaction to your own feeling to tell me
I think I have told you everything that could be demanded of me
I have done it all. I have confessed all. I will not go through it again. I will save myself from agitation
Then are we to part and I never be anything to you
It is better so
There could be nothing but hard duty for you, even if it were possible for you to take the place of my son. You would not love me. Don't deny it
I know what is the truth. You don't like what I did. You are angry with me. You think I robbed you of something. You are on your grandfather's side, and you will always have a condemnation of me in your heart
You are wrong to be angry with me. You are the better for what I did
And now tell me what you shall do
Do you mean now, immediately
or as to the course of my future life
I mean in the future. What difference will it make to you that I have told you about your birth
A very great difference
I can hardly think of anything that would make a greater difference
What shall you do then
Make yourself just like your grandfather -- be what he wished you -- turn yourself into a Jew like him
That is impossible. The effect of my education can never be done away with. The Christian sympathies in which my mind was reared can never die out of me
But I consider it my duty -- it is the impulse of my feeling -- to identify myself, as far as possible, with my hereditary people, and if I can see any work to be done for them that I can give my soul and hand to I shall choose to do it
You are in love with a Jewess
My reasons would be independent of any such fact
I know better. I have seen what men are
Tell me the truth. She is a Jewess who will not accept any one but a Jew. There _are_ a few such
You love her as your father loved me, and she draws you after her as I drew him
But I was leading him the other way. And now your grandfather is getting his revenge
Mother
don't let us think of it in that way. I will admit that there may come some benefit from the education you chose for me. I prefer cherishing the benefit with gratitude, to dwelling with resentment on the injury. I think it would have been right that I should have been brought up with the consciousness that I was a Jew, but it must always have been a good to me to have as wide an instruction and sympathy as possible. And now, you have restored me my inheritance -- events have brought a fuller restitution than you could have made -- you have been saved from robbing my people of my service and me of my duty: can you not bring your whole soul to consent to this
You have told me that you sought what you held the best for me: open your heart to relenting and love toward my grandfather, who sought what he held the best for you
Not for me, no
I tell you, he never thought of his daughter except as an instrument. Because I had wants outside his purpose, I was to be put in a frame and tortured. If that is the right law for the world, I will not say that I love it. If my acts were wrong -- if it is God who is exacting from me that I should deliver up what I withheld -- who is punishing me because I deceived my father and did not warn him that I should contradict his trust -- well, I have told everything. I have done what I could. And _your_ soul consents. That is enough. I have after all been the instrument my father wanted.--'I desire a grandson who shall have a true Jewish heart. Every Jew should rear his family as if he hoped that a Deliverer might spring from it
Were those my grandfather's words
Yes, yes; and you will find them written. I wanted to thwart him
You would have me love what I have hated from the time I was so high
That can never be. But what does it matter? His yoke has been on me, whether I loved it or not. You are the grandson he wanted. You speak as men do -- as if you felt yourself wise. What does it all mean
Mother, don't say that I feel myself wise. We are set in the midst of difficulties. I see no other way to get any clearness than by being truthful -- not by keeping back facts which may -- which should carry obligation within them -- which should make the only guidance toward duty. No wonder if such facts come to reveal themselves in spite of concealments. The effects prepared by generations are likely to triumph over a contrivance which would bend them all to the satisfaction of self. Your will was strong, but my grandfather's trust which you accepted and did not fulfill -- what you call his yoke -- is the expression of something stronger, with deeper, farther-spreading roots, knit into the foundations of sacredness for all men. You renounced me -- you still banish me -- as a son
But that stronger Something has determined that I shall be all the more the grandson whom also you willed to annihilate
Sit down again
You rebuke me. Well -- I am the loser. And you are angry because I banish you. What could you do for me but weary your own patience? Your mother is a shattered woman. My sense of life is little more than a sense of what was -- except when the pain is present. You reproach me that I parted with you. I had joy enough without you then. Now you are come back to me, and I cannot make you a joy. Have you the cursing spirit of the Jew in you? Are you not able to forgive me? Shall you be glad to think that I am punished because I was not a Jewish mother to you
How can you ask me that
Have I not besought you that I might now at least be a son to you? My grief is that you have declared me helpless to comfort you. I would give up much that is dear for the sake of soothing your anguish
You shall give up nothing
You shall be happy. You shall let me think of you as happy. I shall have done you no harm. You have no reason to curse me. You shall feel for me as they feel for the dead whom they say prayers for -- you shall long that I may be freed from all suffering -- from all punishment. And I shall see you instead of always seeing your grandfather. Will any harm come to me because I broke his trust in the daylight after he was gone into darkness? I cannot tell:-- if you think _Kaddish_ will help me -- say it, say it. You will come between me and the dead. When I am in your mind, you will look as you do now -- always as if you were a tender son -- always -- as if I had been a tender mother
Is she beautiful
Who
The woman you love
Yes
Not ambitious
No, I think not
Not one who must have a path of her own
I think her nature is not given to make great claims
She is not like that
Had I not a rightful claim to be something more than a mere daughter and mother? The voice and the genius matched the face. Whatever else was wrong, acknowledge that I had a right to be an artist, though my father's will was against it. My nature gave me a charter
I do acknowledge that
Will you take the portrait
If she is a kind woman, teach her to think of me kindly
I shall be grateful for the portrait
but -- I ought to say, I have no assurance that she whom I love will have any love for me. I have kept silence
Who and what is she
She was brought up as a singer for the stage
Her father took her away early from her mother, and her life has been unhappy. She is very young -- only twenty. Her father wished to bring her up in disregard -- even in dislike of her Jewish origin, but she has clung with all her affection to the memory of her mother and the fellowship of her people
Ah, like you. She is attached to the Judaism she knows nothing of
That is poetry -- fit to last through an opera night. Is she fond of her artist's life -- is her singing worth anything
Her singing is exquisite. But her voice is not suited to the stage. I think that the artist's life has been made repugnant to her
Why, she is made for you then. Sir Hugo said you were bitterly against being a singer, and I can see that you would never have let yourself be merged in a wife, as your father was
I repeat
I repeat that I have no assurance of her love for me, of the possibility that we can ever be united. Other things -- painful issues may lie before me. I have always felt that I should prepare myself to renounce, not cherish that prospect. But I suppose I might feel so of happiness in general. Whether it may come or not, one should try and prepare one's self to do without it
Do you feel in that way
Poor boy!---- I wonder how it would have been if I had kept you with me ---- whether you would have turned your heart to the old things against mine ---- and we should have quarreled ---- your grandfather would have been in you ---- and you would have hampered my life with your young growth from the old root
I think my affection might have lasted through all our quarreling
and that would not have hampered -- surely it would have enriched your life
Not then, not then ---- I did not want it then ---- I might have been glad of it now
if I could have been glad of anything
But you love your other children, and they love you
Oh, yes
But
I am not a loving woman. That is the truth. It is a talent to love -- I lack it. Others have loved me -- and I have acted their love. I know very well what love makes of men and women -- it is subjection. It takes another for a larger self, enclosing this one
I was never willingly subject to any man. Men have been subject to me
Perhaps the man who was subject was the happier of the two
Perhaps -- but I _was_ happy -- for a few years I was happy. If I had not been afraid of defeat and failure, I might have gone on. I miscalculated. What then? It is all over. Another life! Men talk of 'another life,' as if it only began on the other side of the grave. I have long entered on another life
Good-bye, my son, good-bye. We shall hear no more of each other. Kiss me
The unwilling brain Feigns often what it would not; and we trust Imagination with such phantasies As the tongue dares not fashion into words; Which have no words, their horror makes them dim To the mind's eye
There's a plantation of sugar- canes at the foot of that rock; should you like to look
Yes, please
Turn your fear into a safeguard. Keep your dread fixed on the idea of increasing your remorse. * * * Take your fear as a safeguard. It is like quickness of hearing. It may make consequences passionately present to you
I will not mind if I can keep from getting wicked
How long are we to be yachting
What else should we do
I'm not tired of it. I don't see why we shouldn't stay out any length of time. There's less to bore one in this way. And where would you go to? I'm sick of foreign places. And we shall have enough of Ryelands. Would you rather be at Ryeland's
Oh, no
I only wondered how long you would like this
I like yachting longer than anything else
and I had none last year. I suppose you are beginning to tire of it. Women are so confoundedly whimsical. They expect everything to give way to them
Oh, dear, no
I never expect you to give way
Why should I
There's been the devil's own work in the night. The skipper says we shall have to stay at Genoa for a week while things are set right
Do you mind that
I should think so. Who wants to be broiling at Genoa
It will be a change
_I_ don't want any change. Besides, the place is intolerable; and one can't move along the roads. I shall go out in a boat, as I used to do, and manage it myself. One can get a few hours every day in that way instead of striving in a damnable hotel
A -- just ring, please, and tell Gibbs to order some dinner for us at three
I'm going to send Angus to find a little sailing-boat for us to go out in; one that I can manage, with you at the tiller. It's uncommonly pleasant these fine evenings -- the least boring of anything we can do
I would rather not go in the boat
Take some one else with you
Very well; if you don't go, I shall not go
We shall stay suffocating here, that's all
I can't bear to go in a boat
That is a sudden change
But, since you decline, we shall stay indoors
Have you come round yet? or do you find it agreeable to be out of temper. You make things uncommonly pleasant for me
Why do you want to make them unpleasant for _me_
Now, will you be good enough to say what it is you have to complain of
Is it that I stay indoors when you stay
I hope this is useful
All I can say is, it's most confoundedly unpleasant. What the devil women can see in this kind of thing, I don't know. _You_ see something to be got by it, of course. All I can see is, that we shall be shut up here when we might have been having a pleasant sail
Let us go, then
Perhaps we shall be drowned
Just be quiet and listen, will you
Let us understand each other
I know very well what this nonsense means. But if you suppose I am going to let you make a fool of me, just dismiss that notion from your mind. What are you looking forward to, if you can't behave properly as my wife? There is disgrace for you, if you like to have it, but I don't know anything else; and as to Deronda, it's quite clear that he hangs back from you
It's all false
You don't in the least imagine what is in my mind. I have seen enough of the disgrace that comes in that way. And you had better leave me at liberty to speak with any one I like. It will be better for you
You will allow me to judge of that
What decision have you come to
What orders shall I give
Oh, let us go
God help me
What is the matter
Oh, nothing
Don't you find this pleasant
Very
You admit now we couldn't have done anything better
No -- I see nothing better. I think we shall go on always, like the Flying Dutchman
If you like, we can go to Spezia in the morning, and let them take us up there
No; I shall like nothing better than this
Very well: we'll do the same to-morrow. But we must be turning in soon. I shall put about
Ritorna a tua scienza Che vuoi, quanto la cosa e piu perfetta Piu senta if bene, e cosi la doglienza
I will stay over to-night, because it is Friday, and I should like to go to the evening service at the synagogue where they must all have gone; and besides, I may see the Grandcourts again
It is come, it is come! He is dead
Hush, hush
quiet yourself
I am a connection of this lady's husband. If you will get her on to the _Italia_ as quickly as possible, I will undertake everything else
The pang, the curse with which they died, Had never passed away: I could not draw my eyes from theirs, Nor lift them up to pray
I beseech you to rest -- not to stand
Will you sit down near me
I want to speak very low
You know I am a guilty woman
I know nothing
He is dead
Yes
His face will not be seen above the water again
No
Not by any one else -- only by me -- a dead face -- I shall never get away from it
You will not say that I ought to tell the world? you will not say that I ought to be disgraced? I could not do it. I could not bear it. I cannot have my mother know. Not if I were dead. I could not have her know. I must tell you; but you will not say that any one else should know
I can say nothing in my ignorance
except that I desire to help you
I told you from the beginning -- as soon as I could -- I told you I was afraid of myself
I felt a hatred in me that was always working like an evil spirit -- contriving things. Everything I could do to free myself came into my mind; and it got worse -- all things got worse. That is why I asked you to come to me in town. I thought then I would tell you the worst about myself. I tried. But I could not tell everything. And _he_ came in
I will tell you everything now. Do you think a woman who cried, and prayed, and struggled to be saved from herself, could be a murderess
Great God
don't torture me needlessly. You have not murdered him. You threw yourself into the water with the impulse to save him. Tell me the rest afterward. This death was an accident that you could not have hindered
Don't be impatient with me
You said -- you used to say -- you felt more for those who had done something wicked and were miserable; you said they might get better -- they might be scourged into something better. If you had not spoken in that way, Everything would have been worse. I _did_ remember all you said to me. It came to me always. It came to me at the very last -- that was the reason why I -- But now, if you cannot bear with me when I tell you everything -- if you turn away from me and forsake me, what shall I do? Am I worse than I was when you found me and wanted to make me better? All the wrong I have done was in me then -- and more -- and more -- if you had not come and been patient with me. And now -- will you forsake me
I will not forsake you
All sorts of contrivances in my mind -- but all so difficult. And I fought against them -- I was terrified at them -- I saw his dead face
ever so long ago I saw it and I wished him to be dead. And yet it terrified me. I was like two creatures. I could not speak -- I wanted to kill -- it was as strong as thirst -- and then directly -- I felt beforehand I had done something dreadful, unalterable -- that would make me like an evil spirit. And it came -- it came
It had all been in my mind when I first spoke to you -- when we were at the Abbey. I had done something then. I could not tell you that. It was the only thing I did toward carrying out my thoughts. They went about over everything; but they all remained like dreadful dreams -- all but one. I did one act -- and I never undid it -- it is there still -- as long ago as when we were at Ryelands. There it was -- something my fingers longed for among the beautiful toys in the cabinet in my boudoir -- small and sharp like a long willow leaf in a silver sheath. I locked it in the drawer of my dressing- case. I was continually haunted with it and how I should use it. I fancied myself putting it under my pillow. But I never did. I never looked at it again. I dared not unlock the drawer: it had a key all to itself; and not long ago, when we were in the yacht, I dropped the key into the deep water. It was my wish to drop it and deliver myself. After that I began to think how I could open the drawer without the key: and when I found we were to stay at Genoa, it came into my mind that I could get it opened privately at the hotel. But then, when we were going up the stairs, I met you; and I thought I should talk to you alone and tell you this -- everything I could not tell you in town; and then I was forced to go out in the boat
And it has all remained in your imagination. It has gone on only in your thought. To the last the evil temptation has been resisted
No, no; I will tell you everything as God knows it. I will tell you no falsehood; I will tell you the exact truth. What should I do else? I used to think I could never be wicked. I thought of wicked people as if they were a long way off me. Since then I have been wicked. I have felt wicked. And everything has been a punishment to me -- all the things I used to wish for -- it is as if they had been made red-hot. The very daylight has often been a punishment to me. Because -- you know -- I ought not to have married. That was the beginning of it. I wronged some one else. I broke my promise. I meant to get pleasure for myself, and it all turned to misery. I wanted to make my gain out of another's loss -- you remember?-- it was like roulette -- and the money burned into me. And I could not complain. It was as if I had prayed that another should lose and I should win. And I had won, I knew it all -- I knew I was guilty. When we were on the sea, and I lay awake at night in the cabin, I sometimes felt that everything I had done lay open without excuse -- nothing was hidden -- how could anything be known to me only?-- it was not my own knowledge, it was God's that had entered into me, and even the stillness -- everything held a punishment for me -- everything but you. I always thought that you would not want me to be punished -- you would have tried and helped me to be better. And only thinking of that helped me. You will not change -- you will not want to punish me now
God forbid
That all made it so hard when I was forced to go in the boat. Because when I saw you it was an unexpected joy, and I thought I could tell you everything -- about the locked-up drawer and what I had not told you before. And if I had told you, and knew it was in your mind, it would have less power over me. I hoped and trusted in that. For after all my struggles and my crying, the hatred and rage, the temptation that frightened me, the longing, the thirst for what I dreaded, always came back. And that disappointment -- when I was quite shut out from speaking to you, and was driven to go in the boat -- brought all the evil back, as if I had been locked in a prison with it and no escape. Oh, it seems so long ago now since I stepped into that boat! I could have given up everything in that moment, to have the forked lightning for a weapon to strike him dead
If he were here again, what should I do? I cannot wish him here -- and yet I cannot bear his dead face. I was a coward. I ought to have borne contempt. I ought to have gone away -- gone and wandered like a beggar rather than to stay to feel like a fiend. But turn where I would there was something I could not bear. Sometimes I thought he would kill _me_ if I resisted his will. But now -- his dead face is there, and I cannot bear it
I have been a cruel woman! What can _I_ do but cry for help? _I_ am sinking. Die -- die -- you are forsaken -- go down, go down into darkness. Forsaken -- no pity -- _I_ shall be forsaken
You know I am a guilty woman
I know it, but I shall all the less forsake you
I make you very unhappy
Oh
There is no question of being happy or unhappy. What I most desire at this moment is what will most help you. Tell me all you feel it a relief to tell
Perhaps you are too weary. Shall I go away, and come again whenever you wish it
No, no
I want to tell you what it was that came over me in that boat. I was full of rage at being obliged to go -- full of rage -- and I could do nothing but sit there like a galley slave. And then we got away -- out of the port -- into the deep -- and everything was still -- and we never looked at each other, only he spoke to order me -- and the very light about me seemed to hold me a prisoner and force me to sit as I did. It came over me that when I was a child I used to fancy sailing away into a world where people were not forced to live with any one they did not like -- I did not like my father- in-law to come home. And now, I thought, just the opposite had come to me. I had stepped into a boat, and my life was a sailing and sailing away -- gliding on and no help -- always into solitude with _him_, away from deliverance. And because I felt more helpless than ever, my thoughts went out over worse things -- I longed for worse things -- I had cruel wishes -- I fancied impossible ways of -- I did not want to die myself; I was afraid of our being drowned together. If it had been any use I should have prayed -- I should have prayed that something might befall him. I should have prayed that he might sink out of my sight and leave me alone. I knew no way of killing hint there, but I did, I did kill him in my thoughts
But yet, all the while I felt that I was getting more wicked. And what had been with me so much, came to me just then -- what you once said -- about dreading to increase my wrong-doing and my remorse -- I should hope for nothing then. It was all like a writing of fire within me. Getting wicked was misery -- being shut out forever from knowing what you -- what better lives were. That had always been coming back to me then -- but yet with a despair -- a feeling that it was no use -- evil wishes were too strong. I remember then letting go the tiller and saying 'God help me!' But then I was forced to take it again and go on; and the evil longings, the evil prayers came again and blotted everything else dim, till, in the midst of them -- I don't know how it was -- he was turning the sail -- there was a gust -- he was struck -- I know nothing -- I only know that I saw my wish outside me
I saw him sink, and my heart gave a leap as if it were going out of me. I think I did not move. I kept my hands tight. It was long enough for me to be glad, and yet to think it was no use -- he would come up again. And he _was_ come -- farther off -- the boat had moved. It was all like lightning. 'The rope!' he called out in a voice -- not his own -- I hear it now -- and I stooped for the rope -- I felt I must -- I felt sure he could swim, and he would come back whether or not, and I dreaded him. That was in my mind -- he would come back. But he was gone down again, and I had the rope in my hand -- no, there he was again -- his face above the water -- and he cried again -- and I held my hand, and my heart said, 'Die!'-- and he sank; and I felt 'It is done -- I am wicked, I am lost!-- and I had the rope in my hand -- I don't know what I thought -- I was leaping away from myself -- I would have saved him then. I was leaping from my crime, and there it was -- close to me as I fell -- there was the dead face -- dead, dead. It can never be altered. That was what happened. That was what I did. You know it all. It can never be altered
It can never be altered -- it remains unaltered, to alter other things
You must rest now. Try to rest: try to sleep. And may I see you again this evening -- to-morrow -- when you have had some rest? Let us say no more now
The unripe grape, the ripe, and the dried. All things are changes, not into nothing, but into that which is not at present
How long ago it is
Will you sit near me again a little while
You will not say that any one else should know
Most decidedly not
There is no action that ought to be taken in consequence. There is no injury that could be righted in that way. There is no retribution that any mortal could apportion justly
But if I had not had that murderous will -- that moment -- if I had thrown the rope on the instant -- perhaps it would have hindered death
No -- I think not
If it were true that he could swim, he must have been seized with cramp. With your quickest, utmost effort, it seems impossible that you could have done anything to save him. That momentary murderous will cannot, I think, have altered the course of events. Its effect is confined to the motives in your own breast. Within ourselves our evil will is momentous, and sooner or later it works its way outside us -- it may be in the vitiation that breeds evil acts, but also it may be in the self-abhorrence that stings us into better striving
I am saved from robbing others -- there are others -- they will have everything -- they will have what they ought to have. I knew that some time before I left town. You do not suspect me of wrong desires about those things
I had not thought of them
I was thinking too much of the other things
Perhaps you don't quite know the beginning of it all
There was some one else he ought to have married. And I knew it, and I told her I would not hinder it. And I went away -- that was when you first saw me. But then we became poor all at once, and I was very miserable, and I was tempted. I thought, 'I shall do as I like and make everything right.' I persuaded myself. And it was all different. It was all dreadful. Then came hatred and wicked thoughts. That was how it all came. I told you I was afraid of myself. And I did what you told me -- I did try to make my fear a safeguard. I thought of what would be if I -- I felt what would come -- how I should dread the morning -- wishing it would be always night -- and yet in the darkness always seeing something -- seeing death. If you did not know how miserable I was, you might -- but now it has all been no use. I can care for nothing but saving the rest from knowing -- poor mamma, who has never been happy
You cannot bear to look at me any more. You think I am too wicked. You do not believe that I can become any better -- worth anything -- worthy enough -- I shall always be too wicked to
I believe that you may become worthier than you have ever yet been -- worthy to lead a life that may be a blessing. No evil dooms us hopelessly except the evil we love, and desire to continue in, and make no effort to escape from. You _have_ made efforts -- you will go on making them
But you were the beginning of them. You must not forsake me
I will bear any penance. I will lead any life you tell me. But you must not forsake me. You must be near. If you had been near me -- if I could have said everything to you, I should have been different. You will not forsake me
It could never be my impulse to forsake you
I expect Sir Hugh Mallinger to arrive by to-morrow night at least; and I am not without hope that Mrs. Davilow may shortly follow him. Her presence will be the greatest comfort to you -- it will give you a motive to save her from unnecessary pain
Yes, yes -- I will try. And you will not go away
Not till after Sir Hugo has come
But we shall all go to England
As soon as possible
You will always be with Sir Hugo now
You will always live at the Abbey -- or else at Diplow
I am quite uncertain where I shall live
It is impossible to think how my life will go on. I think now it would be better for me to be poor and obliged to work
New promptings will come as the days pass. When you are among your friends again, you will discern new duties
Make it a task now to get as well and calm -- as much like yourself as you can, before
Before my mother comes
Ah! I must be changed. I have not looked at myself. Should you have known me
if you had met me now?-- should you have known me for the one you saw at Leubronn
Yes, I should have known you
The outside change is not great. I should have seen at once that it was you, and that you had gone through some great sorrow
Don't wish now that you had never seen me; don't wish that
I should despise myself for wishing it
How could I know what I was wishing? We must find our duties in what comes to us, not in what we imagine might have been. If I took to foolish wishing of that sort, I should wish -- not that I had never seen you, but that I had been able to save you from this
You have saved me from worse
I should have been worse if it had not been for you. If you had not been good, I should have been more wicked than I am
It will be better for me to go now
Remember what we said of your task -- to get well and calm before other friends come
Much adoe there was, God wot; He wold love and she wold not
You don't repent the choice of the law as a profession, Rex
There is no profession I would choose before it
I should like to end my life as a first-rate judge, and help to draw up a code. I reverse the famous dictum. I should say, 'Give me something to do with making the laws, and let who will make the songs
You will have to stow in an immense amount of rubbish, I suppose -- that's the worst of it
I don't see that law-rubbish is worse than any other sort. It is not so bad as the rubbishy literature that people choke their minds with. It doesn't make one so dull. Our wittiest men have often been lawyers. Any orderly way of looking at things as cases and evidence seems to me better than a perpetual wash of odds and ends bearing on nothing in particular. And then, from a higher point of view, the foundations and the growth of law make the most interesting aspects of philosophy and history. Of course there will be a good deal that is troublesome, drudging, perhaps exasperating. But the great prizes in life can't be won easily -- I see that
Well, my boy, the best augury of a man's success in his profession is that he thinks it the finest in the world. But I fancy it so with most work when a man goes into it with a will. Brewitt, the blacksmith, said to me the other day that his 'prentice had no mind to his trade; 'and yet, sir,' said Brewitt, 'what would a young fellow have if he doesn't like the blacksmithing
Rex will be a distinguished man, Nancy, I am sure of it -- as sure as Paley's father was about his son
Was Paley an old bachelor
That is hardly to the point, my dear
Jodson's
in a situation
the newspaper
never have been properly argued with
couldn't bear them
cram
painted with fear
My dears, Mr. Grandcourt
Mr. Grandcourt is drowned
Can I do anything, aunt? Can I carry any word to my father from you
Yes, dear. Tell him I will be ready -- he is very good. He says he will go with me to Genoa -- he will be here at half-past six. Jocosa and Alice, help me to get ready. She is safe -- Gwendolen is safe -- but she must be ill. I am sure she must be very ill. Rex, dear -- Rex and Anna -- go and and tell your father I will be quite ready. I would not for the world lose another night. And bless him for being ready so soon. I can travel night and day till we get there
Nannie, I will leave you to say everything to my father. If he wants me immediately, let me know. I shall stay in the shrubbery for ten minutes -- only ten minutes
Gwendolen rich, exalted, courted
She would never love me; and that is not the question -- I could never approach her as a lover in her present position. I am exactly of no consequence at all, and am not likely to be of much consequence till my head is turning gray. But what has that to do with it? She would not have me on any terms, and I would not ask her. It is a meanness to be thinking about it now -- no better than lurking about the battle-field to strip the dead; but there never was more gratuitous sinning. I have nothing to gain there -- absolutely nothing. * * * Then why can't I face the facts, and behave as they demand, instead of leaving my father to suppose that there are matters he can't speak to me about, though I might be useful in them
Can I be of any use, sir
Yes, my boy; when I'm gone, just see to my letters, and answer where necessary, and send me word of everything. Dymock will manage the parish very well, and you will stay with your mother, or, at least, go up and down again, till I come back, whenever that may be
You will hardly be very long, sir, I suppose
You will perhaps bring my cousin back to England
That depends
Perhaps her mother may stay there with her, and I may come back very soon. This telegram leaves us in ignorance which is rather anxious. But no doubt the arrangements of the will lately made are satisfactory, and there may possibly be an heir yet to be born. In any case, I feel confident that Gwendolen will be liberally -- I should expect, splendidly -- provided for
It must have been a great shock for her
I suppose he was a devoted husband
No doubt of it
Few men of his position would have come forward as he did under the circumstances
I count myself in nothing else so happy As in a soul remembering my good friends
Well, Dan
I have taken my journey easily, and am in excellent condition
I didn't hurry in setting off, because I wanted to inquire into things a little, and so I got sight of your letter to Lady Mallinger before I started. But now, how is the widow
Getting calmer
She seems to be escaping the bodily illness that one might have feared for her, after her plunge and terrible excitement. Her uncle and mother came two days ago, and she is being well taken care of
Any prospect of an heir being born
From what Mr. Gascoigne said to me, I conclude not. He spoke as if it were a question whether the widow would have the estates for her life
It will not be much of a wrench to her affections, I fancy, this loss of the husband
The suddenness of the death has been a great blow to her
I wonder whether Grandcourt gave her any notion what were the provisions of his will
Do you know what they are, sir
Yes, I do
Gad! if there is no prospect of a legitimate heir, he has left everything to a boy he had by a Mrs. Glasher; you know nothing about the affair, I suppose, but she was a sort of wife to him for a good many years, and there are three older children -- girls. The boy is to take his father's name; he is Henleigh already, and he is to be Henleigh Mallinger Grandcourt. The Mallinger will be of no use to him, I am happy to say; but the young dog will have more than enough with his fourteen years' minority -- no need to have had holes filled up with my fifty thousand for Diplow that he had no right to: and meanwhile my beauty, the young widow, is to put up with a poor two thousand a year and the house at Gadsmere -- a nice kind of banishment for her if she chose to shut herself up there, which I don't think she will. The boy's mother has been living there of late years. I'm perfectly disgusted with Grandcourt. I don't know that I'm obliged to think the better of him because he's drowned, though, so far as my affairs are concerned, nothing in his life became him like the leaving it
In my opinion he did wrong when he married this wife -- not in leaving his estates to the son
I say nothing against his leaving the land to the lad
but since he had married this girl he ought to have given her a handsome provision, such as she could live on in a style fitted to the rank he had raised her to. She ought to have had four or five thousand a year and the London house for her life; that's what I should have done for her. I suppose, as she was penniless, her friends couldn't stand out for a settlement, else it's ill trusting to the will a man may make after he's married. Even a wise man generally lets some folly ooze out of him in his will -- my father did, I know; and if a fellow has any spite or tyranny in him, he's likely to bottle off a good deal for keeping in that sort of document. It's quite clear Grandcourt meant that his death should put an extinguisher on his wife, if she bore him no heir
And, in the other case, I suppose everything would have been reversed -- illegitimacy would have had the extinguisher
Precisely -- Gadsmere and the two thousand. It's queer. One nuisance is that Grandcourt has made me an executor; but seeing he was the son of my only brother, I can't refuse to act. And I shall mind it less if I can be of any use to the widow. Lush thinks she was not in ignorance about the family under the rose, and the purport of the will. He hints that there was no very good understanding between the couple. But I fancy you are the man who knew most about what Mrs. Grandcourt felt or did not feel -- eh, Dan
She was certainly not happy. They were unsuited to each other. But as to the disposal of the property -- from all I have seen of her, I should predict that she will be quite contented with it
Then she is not much like the rest of her sex; that's all I can say
However, she ought to be something extraordinary, for there must be an entanglement between your horoscope and hers -- eh? When that tremendous telegram came, the first thing Lady Mallinger said was, 'How very strange that it should be Daniel who sends it!' But I have had something of the same sort in my own life. I was once at a foreign hotel where a lady had been left by her husband without money. When I heard of it, and came forward to help her, who should she be but an early flame of mine, who had been fool enough to marry an Austrian baron with a long mustache and short affection? But it was an affair of my own that called me there -- nothing to do with knight-errantry, any more than you coming to Genoa had to do with the Grandcourts
And about the main business of your coming to Genoa, Dan? You have not been deeply pained by anything you have learned, I hope? There is nothing that you feel need change your position in any way? You know, whatever happens to you must always be of importance to me
I desire to meet your goodness by perfect confidence, sir
But I can't answer those questions truly by a simple yes or no. Much that I have heard about the past has pained me. And it has been a pain to meet and part with my mother in her suffering state, as I have been compelled to do, But it is no pain -- it is rather a clearing up of doubts for which I am thankful, to know my parentage. As to the effect on my position, there will be no change in my gratitude to you, sir, for the fatherly care and affection you have always shown me. But to know that I was born a Jew, may have a momentous influence on my life, which I am hardly able to tell you of at present
I have long expected something remarkable from you, Dan; but, for God's sake, don't go into any eccentricities! I can tolerate any man's difference of opinion, but let him tell it me without getting himself up as a lunatic. At this stage of the world, if a man wants to be taken seriously, he must keep clear of melodrama. Don't misunderstand me. I am not suspecting you of setting up any lunacy on your own account. I only think you might easily be led arm in arm with a lunatic, especially if he wanted defending. You have a passion for people who are pelted, Dan. I'm sorry for them too; but so far as company goes, it's a bad ground of selection. However, I don't ask you to anticipate your inclination in anything you have to tell me. When you make up your mind to a course that requires money, I have some sixteen thousand pounds that have been accumulating for you over and above what you have been having the interest of as income. And now I am come, I suppose you want to get back to England as soon as you can
I must go first to Mainz to get away a chest of my grandfather's, and perhaps to see a friend of his
Although the chest has been lying there these twenty years, I have an unreasonable sort of nervous eagerness to get it away under my care, as if it were more likely now than before that something might happen to it. And perhaps I am the more uneasy, because I lingered after my mother left, instead of setting out immediately. Yet I can't regret that I was here -- else Mrs. Grandcourt would have had none but servants to act for her
Yes, yes
I hope you are not going to set a dead Jew above a living Christian
But I shall say no more of this at this time; for this is to be felt and not to be talked of; and they who never touched it with their fingers may secretly perhaps laugh at it in their hearts and be never the wiser
Good! It is now you who seek me, young man
Yes; I seek you with gratitude, as a friend of my grandfather's
and I am under an obligation to you for giving yourself much trouble on my account
So you are no longer angry at being something more than an Englishman
On the contrary. I thank you heartily for helping to save me from remaining in ignorance of my parentage, and for taking care of the chest that my grandfather left in trust for me
Sit down, sit down
contain a potency of life in them to be as active as that soul whose progeny they are
As thy goodness has been great to the former generations, even so may it be to the latter
Young man, I rejoice that I was not yet set off again on my travels, and that you are come in time for me to see the image of my friend as he was in his youth -- no longer perverted from the fellowship of your people -- no longer shrinking in proud wrath from the touch of him who seemed to be claiming you as a Jew. You come with thankfulness yourself to claim the kindred and heritage that wicked contrivance would have robbed you of. You come with a willing soul to declare, 'I am the grandson of Daniel Charisi.' Is it not so
Assuredly it is
But let me say that I should at no time have been inclined to treat a Jew with incivility simply because he was a Jew. You can understand that I shrank from saying to a stranger, 'I know nothing of my mother
A sin, a sin
A robbery of our people -- as when our youths and maidens were reared for the Roman Edom. But it is frustrated. I have frustrated it. When Daniel Charisi -- may his Rock and his Redeemer guard him!-- when Daniel Charisi was a stripling and I was a lad little above his shoulder, we made a solemn vow always to be friends. He said, 'Let us bind ourselves with duty, as if we were sons of the same mother.' That was his bent from first to last -- as he said, to fortify his soul with bonds. It was a saying of his, 'Let us bind love with duty; for duty is the love of law; and law is the nature of the Eternal.' So we bound ourselves. And though we were much apart in our later life, the bond has never been broken. When he was dead, they sought to rob him; but they could not rob him of me. I rescued that remainder of him which he had prized and preserved for his offspring. And I have restored to him the offspring they had robbed him of. I will bring you the chest forthwith
So
And here is the curious key
Bestow it carefully. I trust you are methodic and wary
I shall be more careful of this than of any other property
I never before possessed anything that was a sign to me of so much cherished hope and effort. And I shall never forget that the effort was partly yours. Have you time to tell me more of my grandfather? Or shall I be trespassing in staying longer
Stay yet a while. In an hour and eighteen minutes I start for Trieste
and presently my sons will expect my attention. Will you let me make you known to them, so that they may have the pleasure of showing hospitality to my friend's grandson? They dwell here in ease and luxury, though I choose to be a wanderer
I shall be glad if you will commend me to their acquaintance for some future opportunity
There are pressing claims calling me to England -- friends who may be much in need of my presence. I have been kept away from them too long by unexpected circumstances. But to know more of you and your family would be motive enough to bring me again to Mainz
Good! Me you will hardly find, for I am beyond my threescore years and ten, and I am a wanderer, carrying my shroud with me. But my sons and their children dwell here in wealth and unity. The days are changed for us since Karl the Great fetched my ancestors from Italy to bring some tincture of knowledge to our rough German brethren. I and my contemporaries have had to fight for it too. Our youth fell on evil days; but this we have won; we increase our wealth in safety, and the learning of all Germany is fed and fattened by Jewish brains -- though they keep not always their Jewish hearts. Have you been left altogether ignorant of your people's life, young man
No
I have lately, before I had any true suspicion of my parentage, been led to study everything belonging to their history with more interest than any other subject. It turns out that I have been making myself ready to understand my grandfather a little
So-you would perhaps have been such a man as he if your education had not hindered; for you are like him in features:-- yet not altogether, young man. He had an iron will in his face: it braced up everybody about him. When he was quite young he had already got one deep upright line in his brow. I see none of that in you. Daniel Charisi used to say, 'Better, a wrong will than a wavering; better a steadfast enemy than an uncertain friend; better a false belief than no belief at all.' What he despised most was indifference. He had longer reasons than I can give you
Yet his knowledge was not narrow
Narrow? no
From his childhood upward, he drank in learning as easily as the plant sucks up water. But he early took to medicine and theories about life and health. He traveled to many countries, and spent much of his substance in seeing and knowing. What he used to insist on was that the strength and wealth of mankind depended on the balance of separateness and communication, and he was bitterly against our people losing themselves among the Gentiles; 'It's no better,' said he, 'than the many sorts of grain going back from their variety into sameness.' He mingled all sorts of learning; and in that he was like our Arabic writers in the golden time. We studied together, but he went beyond me. Though we were bosom friends, and he poured himself out to me, we were as different as the inside and outside of the bowl. I stood up for two notions of my own: I took Charisi's sayings as I took the shape of the trees: they were there, not to be disputed about. It came to the same thing in both of us; we were both faithful Jews, thankful not to be Gentiles. And since I was a ripe man, I have been what I am now, for all but age-loving to wander, loving transactions, loving to behold all things, and caring nothing about hardship. Charisi thought continually of our people's future: he went with all his soul into that part of our religion: I, not. So we have freedom, I am content. Our people wandered before they were driven. Young man when I am in the East, I lie much on deck and watch the greater stars. The sight of them satisfies me. I know them as they rise, and hunger not to know more. Charisi was satisfied with no sight, but pieced it out with what had been before and what would come after. Yet we loved each other, and as he said, he bound our love with duty; we solemnly pledged ourselves to help and defend each other to the last. I have fulfilled my pledge
And in being faithful to him you have caused justice to be done to me. It would have been a robbery of me too that I should never have known of the inheritance he had prepared for me. I thank you with my whole soul
Be worthy of him, young man. What is your vocation
I cannot say that I have any
Get one, get one. The Jew must be diligent. You will call yourself a Jew and profess the faith of your fathers
I shall call myself a Jew
But I will not say that I shall profess to believe exactly as my fathers have believed. Our fathers themselves changed the horizon of their belief and learned of other races. But I think I can maintain my grandfather's notion of separateness with communication. I hold that my first duty is to my own people, and if there is anything to be done toward restoring or perfecting their common life, I shall make that my vocation
Ah, you argue and you look forward -- you are Daniel Charisi's grandson
Within the gentle heart Love shelters him, As birds within the green shade of the grove. Before the gentle heart, in Nature's scheme, Love was not, nor the gentle heart ere Love
O-o-o, Hans! why do you bring a more horrible noise than my singing
What on earth is the wonderful news
Anything about Italy -- anything about the Austrians giving up Venice
Nothing about Italy, but something from Italy
What do you think
Nothing bad
Not bad for anybody we care much about
rather uncommonly lucky, I think. I never knew anybody die conveniently before. Considering what a dear gazelle I am, I am constantly wondering to find myself alive
Oh me, Hans
if you must talk of yourself, let it be behind your own back. What _is_ it that has happened
Duke Alfonso is drowned, and the Duchess is alive, that's all
But more than all is -- Deronda was at Genoa in the same hotel with them, and he saw her brought in by the fishermen who had got her out of the water time enough to save her from any harm. It seems they saw her jump in after her husband, which was a less judicious action than I should have expected of the Duchess. However Deronda is a lucky fellow in being there to take care of her
Poor thing! she must have been fond of her husband to jump in after him
It was an inadvertence -- a little absence of mind
Who can be fond of a jealous baritone, with freezing glances, always singing asides?-- that was the husband's _role_, depend upon it. Nothing can be neater than his getting drowned. The Duchess is at liberty now to marry a man with a fine head of hair, and glances that will melt instead of freezing her. And I shall be invited to the wedding
Mr. Hans, you ought not to speak in that way. Mr. Deronda would not like you to speak so. Why will you say he is lucky -- why will you use words of that sort about life and death -- when what is life to one is death to another? How do you know it would be lucky if he loved Mrs. Grandcourt? It might be a great evil to him. She would take him away from my brother -- I know she would. Mr. Deronda would not call that lucky to pierce my brother's heart
I am a fool and a brute, and I withdraw every word. I'll go and hang myself like Judas -- if it's allowable to mention him
Mirah is quite right to scold you, Hans. You are always taking Mr. Deronda's name in vain. And it is horrible, joking in that way about his marrying Mrs. Grandcourt. Men's minds must be very black, I think
Quite true, my dear
We had better go on, Mab; you have not given your full time to the lesson
Will you sing this again, or shall I sing it to you
Oh, please sing it to me
I must go home now. Ezra expects me
God bless you, my dear
Now, Hans
you are not going to walk home with Mirah. I am sure she would rather not. You are so dreadfully disagreeable to-day
I shall go to take care of her, if she does not forbid me
Good-bye
Will you not come in and see my brother
If you will let me
A letter from Daniel Deronda
Brief -- only saying that he hopes soon to return. Unexpected claims have detained him. The promise of seeing him again is like the bow in the cloud to me
and to you it must be a gladness. For who has two friends like him
What I have read about and sung about and seen acted, is happening to me -- this that I am feeling is the love that makes jealousy
I could bear everything that used to be -- but this is worse -- this is worse,-- I used not to have horrible feelings
Seest thou, Mirah
the _Shemah_, wherein we briefly confess the divine Unity, is the chief devotional exercise of the Hebrew; and this made our religion the fundamental religion for the whole world; for the divine Unity embraced as its consequence the ultimate unity of mankind. See, then -- the nation which has been scoffed at for its separateness, has given a binding theory to the human race. Now, in complete unity a part possesses the whole as the whole possesses every part: and in this way human life is tending toward the image of the Supreme Unity: for as our life becomes more spiritual by capacity of thought, and joy therein, possession tends to become more universal, being independent of gross material contact; so that in a brief day the soul of man may know in fuller volume the good which has been and is, nay, is to come, than all he could possess in a whole life where he had to follow the creeping paths of the senses. In this moment, my sister, I hold the joy of another's future within me: a future which these eyes will not see, and which my spirit may not then recognize as mine. I recognize it now, and love it so, that I can lay down this poor life upon its altar and say: 'Burn, burn indiscernibly into that which shall be, which is my love and not me.' Dost thou understand, Mirah
A little
but my mind is too poor to have felt it
And yet
women are specially framed for the love which feels possession in renouncing, and is thus a fit image of what I mean. Somewhere in the later _Midrash_, I think, is the story of a Jewish maiden who loved a Gentile king so well, that this was what she did:-- she entered into prison and changed clothes with the woman who was beloved by the king, that she might deliver that woman from death by dying in her stead, and leave the king to be happy in his love which was not for her. This is the surpassing love, that loses self in the object of love
No, Ezra, no
that was not it. She wanted the king when she was dead to know what she had done, and feel that she was better than the other. It was her strong self, wanting to conquer, that made her die
That might be, Mirah. But if she acted so, believing the king would never know
You can make the story so in your mind, Ezra, because you are great, and like to fancy the greatest that could be. But I think it was not really like that. The Jewish girl must have had jealousy in her heart, and she wanted somehow to have the first place in the king's mind. That is what she would die for
My sister, thou hast read too many plays, where the writers delight in showing the human passions as indwelling demons, unmixed with the relenting and devout elements of the soul. Thou judgest by the plays, and not by thy own heart, which is like our mother's
Mirah
It is you, father
Why did you run away from me, child
What were you afraid of? You knew I never made you do anything against your will. It was for your sake I broke up your engagement in the Vorstadt, because I saw it didn't suit you, and you repaid me by leaving me to the bad times that came in consequence. I had made an easier engagement for you at the Vorstadt Theater in Dresden: I didn't tell you, because I wanted to take you by surprise. And you left me planted there -- obliged to make myself scarce because I had broken contract. That was hard lines for me, after I had given up everything for the sake of getting you an education which was to be a fortune to you. What father devoted himself to his daughter more than I did to you? You know how I bore that disappointment in your voice, and made the best of it: and when I had nobody besides you, and was getting broken, as a man must who has had to fight his way with his brains -- you chose that time to leave me. Who else was it you owed everything to, if not to me? and where was your feeling in return? For what my daughter cared, I might have died in a ditch
You know why I left you, father; and I had reason to distrust you, because I felt sure that you had deceived my mother. If I could have trusted you, I would have stayed with you and worked for you
I never meant to deceive your mother, Mirah
I meant to take you back to her, but chances hindered me just at the time, and then there came information of her death. It was better for you that I should stay where I was, and your brother could take care of himself. Nobody had any claim on me but you. I had word of your mother's death from a particular friend, who had undertaken to manage things for me, and I sent him over money to pay expenses. There's one chance to be sure
he may have written me lies for the sake of getting the money out of me
I don't believe one word of what you say
You seem to have done well for yourself, Mirah? _You_ are in no want, I see
Good friends who found me in distress have helped me to get work
I give lessons. I have sung in private houses. I have just been singing at a private concert
I have very good friends, who know all about me
And you would be ashamed they should see your father in this plight? No wonder. I came to England with no prospect, but the chance of finding you. It was a mad quest; but a father's heart is superstitious -- feels a loadstone drawing it somewhere or other. I might have done very well, staying abroad: when I hadn't you to take care of, I could have rolled or settled as easily as a ball; but it's hard being lonely in the world, when your spirit's beginning to break. And I thought my little Mirah would repent leaving her father when she came to look back. I've had a sharp pinch to work my way; I don't know what I shall come down to next. Talents like mine are no use in this country. When a man's getting out at elbows nobody will believe in him. I couldn't get any decent employ with my appearance. I've been obliged to get pretty low for a shilling already
Where do you live, Mirah
Here, in this square. We are not far from the house
In lodgings
Yes
Any one to take care of you
Yes
my brother
Ezra? How did you know -- how did you find him
That would take long to tell. Here we are at the door. My brother would not wish me to close it on you
Stay a minute, _Liebchen_
what sort of man has Ezra turned out
A good man -- a wonderful man
But he was very poor when my friends found him for me -- a poor workman. Once -- twelve years ago -- he was strong and happy, going to the East, which he loved to think of; and my mother called him back because -- because she had lost me. And he went to her, and took care of her through great trouble, and worked for her till she died -- died in grief. And Ezra, too, had lost his health and strength. The cold had seized him coming back to my mother, because she was forsaken. For years he has been getting weaker -- always poor, always working -- but full of knowledge, and great-minded. All who come near him honor him. To stand before him is like standing before a prophet of God
falsehoods are no use
Mirah, _Liebchen_
shouldn't you like me to make myself a little more respectable before my son sees me? If I had a little sum of money, I could fit myself out and come home to you as your father ought, and then I could offer myself for some decent place. With a good shirt and coat on my back, people would be glad enough to have me. I could offer myself for a courier, if I didn't look like a broken- down mountebank. I should like to be with my children, and forget and forgive. But you have never seen your father look like this before. If you had ten pounds at hand -- or I could appoint you to bring it me somewhere -- I could fit myself out by the day after to-morrow
I don't like to deny you what you ask, father; but I have given a promise not to do things for you in secret. It _is_ hard to see you looking needy; but we will bear that for a little while; and then you can have new clothes, and we can pay for them
You are a hard and fast young lady -- you have been learning useful virtues -- keeping promises not to help your father with a pound or two when you are getting money to dress yourself in silk -- your father who made an idol of you, and gave up the best part of his life to providing for you
It seems cruel -- I know it seems cruel
But, father, it is more cruel to break the promises people trust in. That broke my mother's heart -- it has broken Ezra's life. You and I must eat now this bitterness from what has been. Bear it. Bear to come in and be cared for as you are
To-morrow, then
I'm a little cut up with all this, Mirah. I shall get up my spirits by to-morrow. If you've a little money in your pocket, I suppose it isn't against your promise to give me a trifle -- to buy a cigar with
Good-bye, my little girl -- to-morrow then
May Mirah be delivered from evil
Ezra, Ezra
Ezra, my father! our father! He followed me. I wanted him to come in. I said you would let him come in. And he said No, he would not -- not now, but to-morrow. And he begged for money from me. And I gave him my purse, and he went away
Wait for calm, Mirah, and then tell me all
He will not come to-morrow
Seest thou
our lot is the lot of Israel. The grief and the glory are mingled as the smoke and the flame. It is because we children have inherited the good that we feel the evil. These things are wedded for us, as our father was wedded to our mother
The Omnipresent
is occupied in making marriages
Moses, trotz seiner Bafeindung der Kunst, dennoch selber ein grosser Kuenstler war und den wahren Kuenstlergeist besass. Nur war dieser Kuenstlergeist bei ihm, wie bei seinen aegyptischen Landsleuteu, nurauf das Colossale und Unverwustliche gerichtet. Aber nicht vie die Aegypter formirte er seine Kunstwerke aus Backstem und Granit, sondern er baute Menchen-pyramiden, er meisselte Menschen Obelisken, ernahm einen armen Hirtenstamm und Schuf daraus ein Volk, das ebenfalls den Jahrhahunderten, trotzen sollte * * * er Schuf Israel
Daniel Deronda -- may he come in
Come! come
Has anything happened?-- any trouble
Talk not of trouble now
There is joy in your face -- let the joy be ours
It is for something he cannot tell us
That is true
I have a joy which will remain to us even in the worst trouble. I did not tell you the reason of my journey abroad, Mordecai, because -- never mind -- I went to learn my parentage. And you were right. I am a Jew
We have the same people. Our souls have the same vocation. We shall not be separated by life or by death
Our God and the God of our fathers
And it is not only that I am a Jew
but I come of a strain that has ardently maintained the fellowship of our race -- a line of Spanish Jews that has borne many students and men of practical power. And I possess what will give us a sort of communion with them. My grandfather, Daniel Charisi, preserved manuscripts, family records stretching far back, in the hope that they would pass into the hands of his grandson. And now his hope is fulfilled, in spite of attempts to thwart it by hiding my parentage from me. I possess the chest containing them, with his own papers, and it is down below in this house. I mean to leave it with you, Mordecai, that you may help me to study the manuscripts. Some of them I can read easily enough -- those in Spanish and Italian. Others are in Hebrew, and, I think, Arabic; but there seem to be Latin translations. I was only able to look at them cursorily while I stayed at Mainz. We will study them together
Daniel, from the first, I have said to you, we know not all the pathways. Has there not been a meeting among them, as of the operations in one soul, where an idea being born and breathing draws the elements toward it, and is fed and glows? For all things are bound together in that Omnipresence which is the place and habitation of the world, and events are of a glass wherethrough our eyes see some of the pathways. And if it seems that the erring and unloving wills of men have helped to prepare you, as Moses was prepared, to serve your people the better, that depends on another order than the law which must guide our footsteps. For the evil will of man makes not a people's good except by stirring the righteous will of man; and beneath all the clouds with which our thought encompasses the Eternal, this is clear -- that a people can be blessed only by having counsellors and a multitude whose will moves in obedience to the laws of justice and love. For see, now, it was your loving will that made a chief pathway, and resisted the effect of evil; for, by performing the duties of brotherhood to my sister, and seeking out her brother in the flesh, your soul has been prepared to receive with gladness this message of the Eternal, 'behold the multitude of your brethren
It is quite true that you and Mirah have been my teachers
If this revelation had been made to me before I knew you both, I think my mind would have rebelled against it. Perhaps I should have felt then -- 'If I could have chosen, I would not have been a Jew.' What I feel now is -- that my whole being is a consent to the fact. But it has been the gradual accord between your mind and mine which has brought about that full consent
It is through your inspiration that I have discerned what may be my life's task. It is you who have given shape to what, I believe, was an inherited yearning -- the effect of brooding, passionate thoughts in many ancestors -- thoughts that seem to have been intensely present in my grandfather. Suppose the stolen offspring of some mountain tribe brought up in a city of the plain, or one with an inherited genius for painting, and born blind -- the ancestral life would lie within them as a dim longing for unknown objects and sensations, and the spell-bound habit of their inherited frames would be like a cunningly-wrought musical instrument, never played on, but quivering throughout in uneasy mysterious meanings of its intricate structure that, under the right touch, gives music. Something like that, I think, has been my experience. Since I began to read and know, I have always longed for some ideal task, in which I might feel myself the heart and brain of a multitude -- some social captainship, which would come to me as a duty, and not be striven for as a personal prize. You have raised the image of such a task for me -- to bind our race together in spite of heresy. You have said to me -- 'Our religion united us before it divided us -- it made us a people before it made Rabbanites and Karaites.' I mean to try what can be done with that union -- I mean to work in your spirit. Failure will not be ignoble, but it would be ignoble for me not to try
Even as my brother that fed at the breasts of my mother
It has begun already -- the marriage of our souls. It waits but the passing away of this body, and then they who are betrothed shall unite in a stricter bond, and what is mine shall be thine. Call nothing mine that I have written, Daniel; for though our masters delivered rightly that everything should be quoted in the name of him that said it -- and their rule is good -- yet it does not exclude the willing marriage which melts soul into soul, and makes thought fuller as the clear waters are made fuller, where the fullness is inseparable and the clearness is inseparable. For I have judged what I have written, and I desire the body that I gave my thought to pass away as this fleshly body will pass; but let the thought be born again from our fuller soul which shall be called yours
You must not ask me to promise that
I must be convinced first of special reasons for it in the writings themselves. And I am too backward a pupil yet. That blent* transmission must go on without any choice of ours; but what we can't hinder must not make our rule for what we ought to choose. I think our duty is faithful tradition where we can attain it. And so you would insist for any one but yourself. Don't ask me to deny my spiritual parentage, when I am finding the clue of my life in the recognition of natural parentage
I will ask for no promise till you see the reason
You have said the truth: I would obey the Master's rule for another. But for years my hope, nay, my confidence, has been, not that the imperfect image of my thought, which is an ill-shaped work of the youthful carver who has seen a heavenly pattern, and trembles in imitating the vision -- not that this should live, but that my vision and passion should enter into yours -- yea, into yours; for he whom I longed for afar, was he not you whom I discerned as mine when you came near? Nevertheless, you shall judge. For my soul is satisfied
What moved your parents
Nay, I ask not that you should tell me aught concerning others, unless it is your pleasure
Some time -- gradually -- you will know all
But now tell me more about yourselves, and how the time has passed since I went away. I am sure there has been some trouble. Mirah has been in distress about something
To day there has been a grief. A duty which seemed to have gone far into the distance, has come back and turned its face upon us, and raised no gladness -- has raised a dread that we must submit to. But for the moment we are delivered from any visible yoke. Let us defer speaking of it as if this evening which is deepening about us were the beginning of the festival in which we must offer the first fruits of our joy, and mingle no mourning with them
Are you going? I must leave almost immediately -- when I and Mrs. Adam have mounted the precious chest, and I have delivered the key to Mordecai -- no, Ezra,-- may I call him Ezra now? I have learned to think of him as Ezra since I have heard you call him so
Please call him Ezra
Questa montagna e tale, Che sempre al cominciar di sotto a grave. E quanto uom piu va su e men fa male
I shall never like to see the Mediterranean again
Are you there, mamma
Yes, dear; can I do anything for you
No, thank you; only I like so to know you are there. Do you mind my waking you
I was not asleep, darling
It seemed not real that you were with me. I wanted to make it real. I can bear things if you are with me. But you must not lie awake, anxious about me. You must be happy now. You must let me make you happy now at last -- else what shall I do
God bless you, dear; I have the best happiness I can have, when you make much of me
Let me give you your sleeping-draught, Gwendolen
No, mamma, thank you; I don't want to sleep
It would be so good for you to sleep more, my darling
Don't say what would be good for me, mamma
You don't know what would be good for me. You and my uncle must not contradict me and tell me anything is good for me when I feel it is not good
I was always naughty to you, mamma
No, dear, no
Yes, I was
It is because I was always wicked that I am miserable now
When a young man makes his will in health, he usually counts on living a long while. Probably Mr. Grandcourt did not believe that this will would ever have its present effect
The effect is painful in more ways than one. Female morality is likely to suffer from this marked advantage and prominence being given to illegitimate offspring
Well, in point of fact
since the boy is there, this was really the best alternative for the disposal of the estates. Grandcourt had nobody nearer than his cousin. And it's a chilling thought that you go out of this life only for the benefit of a cousin. A man gets a little pleasure in making his will, if it's for the good of his own curly heads; but it's a nuisance when you're giving the bequeathing to a used-up fellow like yourself, and one you don't care two straws for. It's the next worse thing to having only a life interest in your estates. No; I forgive Grandcourt for that part of his will. But, between ourselves, what I don't forgive him for, is the shabby way he has provided for your niece -- _our_ niece, I will say -- no better a position than if she had been a doctor's widow. Nothing grates on me more than that posthumous grudgingness toward a wife. A man ought to have some pride and fondness for his widow. _I_ should, I know. I take it as a test of a man, that he feels the easier about his death when he can think of his wife and daughters being comfortable after it. I like that story of the fellows in the Crimean war, who were ready to go to the bottom of the sea if their widows were provided for
It has certainly taken me by surprise
all the more because, as the one who stood in the place of father to my niece, I had shown my reliance on Mr. Grandcourt's apparent liberality in money matters by making no claims for her beforehand. That seemed to me due to him under the circumstances. Probably you think me blamable
Not blamable exactly. I respect a man for trusting another. But take my advice. If you marry another niece, though it may be to the Archbishop of Canterbury, bind him down. Your niece can't be married for the first time twice over. And if he's a good fellow, he'll wish to be bound. But as to Mrs. Grandcourt, I can only say that I feel my relation to her all the nearer because I think that she has not been well treated. And I hope you will urge her to rely on me as a friend
I hope you don't expect that I am going to be rich and grand, mamma
perhaps I shall have nothing at all
Oh yes, dear, you will have something. Sir Hugo knows all about the will
That will not decide
Surely, dear: Sir Hugo says you are to have two thousand a year and the house at Gadsmere
What I have will depend on what I accept
You and my uncle must not attempt to cross me and persuade me about this. I will do everything I can do to make you happy, but in anything about my husband I must not be interfered with. Is eight hundred a year enough for you, mamma
More than enough, dear. You must not think of giving me so much
Do you know who is to have the estates and the rest of the money
Yes
I know everything. It is all perfectly right, and I wish never to have it mentioned
Come and sit nearer to me, mamma, and don't be unhappy
I mean to be very wise; I do, really. And good -- oh, so good to you, dear, old, sweet mamma, you won't know me. Only you must not cry
my dear
_I_ shouldn't mind about the soot myself
Nothing is more healthy. And if one's business lay there, Gadsmere would be a paradise. It makes quite a feature in Scrogg's history of the county, with the little tower and the fine piece of water -- the prettiest print in the book
A more important place than Offendene, I suppose
Much
I was there with my poor brother -- it is more than a quarter of a century ago, but I remember it very well. The rooms may not be larger, but the grounds are on a different scale
Our poor dear Offendene is empty after all
When it came to the point, Mr. Haynes declared off, and there has been no one to take it since. I might as well have accepted Lord Brackenshaw's kind offer that I should remain in it another year rent-free: for I should have kept the place aired and warmed
I hope you've something snug instead
A little too snug
You are rather thick upon the ground
I don't mind telling _you_
Sir Hugo, I wish to see Mr. Deronda again as soon as possible. I don't know his address. Will you tell it me, or let him know that I want to see him
Upon my word, I don't know whether he's at his chambers or the Abbey at this moment. But I'll make sure of him. I'll send a note now to his chambers telling him to come, and if he's at the Abbey I can give him your message and send him up at once. I am sure he will want to obey your wish
O, welcome, pure-eyed Faith, white-handed Hope, Thou hovering angel, girt with golden wings
It was good of you to come. Let us sit down
I asked you to come because I want you to tell me what I ought to do
Don't be afraid of telling me what you think is right, because it seems hard. I have made up my mind to do it. I was afraid once of being poor; I could not bear to think of being under other people; and that was why I did something -- why I married. I have borne worse things now. I think I could bear to be poor, if you think I ought. Do you know about my husband's will
Yes, Sir Hugo told me
Ought I to take anything he has left me? I will tell you what I have been thinking
Perhaps you may not quite know that I really did think a good deal about my mother when I married. I _was_ selfish, but I did love her, and feel about her poverty; and what comforted me most at first, when I was miserable, was her being better off because I had married. The thing that would be hardest to me now would be to see her in poverty again; and I have been thinking that if I took enough to provide for her, and no more -- nothing for myself -- it would not be wrong; for I was very precious to my mother -- and he took me from her -- and he meant -- and if she had known
Do not hurt yourself by speaking of that
There is no need; the case is very simple. I think I can hardly judge wrongly about it. You consult me because I am the only person to whom you have confided the most painful part of your experience: and I can understand your scruples
You are conscious of something which you feel to be a crime toward one who is dead. You think that you have forfeited all claim as a wife. You shrink from taking what was his. You want to keep yourself from profiting by his death. Your feeling even urges you to some self- punishment -- some scourging of the self that disobeyed your better will -- the will that struggled against temptation. I have known something of that myself. Do I understand you
Yes -- at least, I want to be good -- not like what I have been
I will try to bear what you think I ought to bear. I have tried to tell you the worst about myself. What ought I to do
If no one but yourself were concerned in this question of income
I should hardly dare to urge you against any remorseful prompting; but I take as a guide now, your feeling about Mrs. Davilow, which seems to me quite just. I cannot think that your husband's dues even to yourself are nullified by any act you have committed. He voluntarily entered into your life, and affected its course in what is always the most momentous way. But setting that aside, it was due from him in his position that he should provide for your mother, and he of course understood that if this will took effect she would share the provision he had made for you
She has had eight hundred a year. What I thought of was to take that and leave the rest
I think it is not your duty to fix a limit in that way
You would be making a painful enigma for Mrs. Davilow; an income from which you shut yourself out must be embittered to her. And your own course would become too difficult. We agreed at Genoa that the burden on your conscience is one what no one ought to be admitted to the knowledge of. The future beneficence of your life will be best furthered by your saving all others from the pain of that knowledge. In my opinion you ought simply to abide by the provisions of your husband's will, and let your remorse tell only on the use that you will make of your monetary independence
I will do what you tell me
but what else shall I do
You will probably be soon going with Mrs. Davilow into the country
Yes, in a week or ten days
I want to be kind to them all -- they can be happier than I can. Is that the best I can do
I think so. It is a duty that cannot be doubtful
Other duties will spring from it. Looking at your life as a debt may seem the dreariest view of things at a distance; but it cannot really be so. What makes life dreary is the want of motive: but once beginning to act with that penitential, loving purpose you have in your mind, there will be unexpected satisfactions -- there will be newly-opening needs -- continually coming to carry you on from day to day. You will find your life growing like a plant
This sorrow, which has cut down to the root, has come to you while you are so young -- try to think of it not as a spoiling of your life, but as a preparation for it. Let it be a preparation
See! you have been saved from the worst evils that might have come from your marriage, which you feel was wrong. You have had a vision of injurious, selfish action -- a vision of possible degradation; think that a severe angel, seeing you along the road of error, grasped you by the wrist and showed you the horror of the life you must avoid. And it has come to you in your spring-time. Think of it as a preparation. You can, you will, be among the best of women, such as make others glad that they were born
I must not weary you
You look ill yet -- unlike yourself
I can't sleep much
Things repeat themselves in me so. They come back -- they will all come back
By degrees they will be less insistent
Sir Hugo says he shall come to stay at Diplow
You will come too
Probably
Yes, I shall come
And not again here, before I leave town
If I can be of any use -- if you wish me -- certainly I will
I must wish it
you know I must wish it. What strength have I? Who else is there
I will certainly come
Don't be unhappy about me
I shall remember your words -- every one of them. I shall remember what you believe about me; I shall try
One day still fierce 'mid many a day struck calm
_Herz, mein Herz_
A gentleman below says he is your father, miss
I will go down to him
No, Mirah, not so
Let him come up, Mrs. Adam
Father, sure enough
Well, Ezra, my boy, you hardly know me after so many years
I know you -- too well -- father
Ah, you are not pleased with me. I don't wonder at it. Appearances have been against me. When a man gets into straits he can't do just as he would by himself or anybody else, _I_'ve suffered enough, I know
Here's your little purse, my dear. I thought you'd be anxious about it because of that bit of writing. I've emptied it, you'll see, for I had a score to pay for food and lodging. I knew you would like me to clear myself, and here I stand -- without a single farthing in my pocket -- at the mercy of my children; You can turn me out if you like, without getting a policeman. Say the word, Mirah; say, 'Father, I've had enough of you; you made a pet of me, and spent your all on me, when I couldn't have done without you; but I can do better without you now,'-- say that, and I'm gone out like a spark. I shan't spoil your pleasure again
You know I could never say it, father
Mirah, my sister, leave us
Remember, Ezra -- you said my mother would not have shut him out
Trust me, and go
This home that we have here
is maintained partly by the generosity of a beloved friend who supports me, and partly by the labors of my sister, who supports herself. While we have a home we will not shut you out from it. We will not cast you out to the mercy of your vices. For you are our father, and though you have broken your bond, we acknowledge ours. But I will never trust you. You absconded with money, leaving your debts unpaid; you forsook my mother; you robbed her of her little child and broke her heart; you have become a gambler, and where shame and conscience were there sits an insatiable desire; you were ready to sell my sister -- you had sold her, but the price was denied you. The man who has done these things must never expect to be trusted any more. We will share our food with you -- you shall have a bed, and clothing. We will do this duty to you, because you are our father. But you will never be trusted. You are an evil man: you made the misery of our mother. That such a man is our father is a brand on our flesh which will not cease smarting. But the Eternal has laid it upon us; and though human justice were to flog you for crimes, and your body fell helpless before the public scorn, we would still say, 'This is our father; make way, that we may carry him out of your sight
Good-bye, Mirah; your father will not trouble you again. He deserves to die like a dog by the roadside, and he will. If your mother had lived, she would have forgiven me -- thirty-four years ago I put the ring on her finger under the _Chuppa_, and we were made one. She would have forgiven me, and we should have spent our old age together. But I haven't deserved it. Good-bye
good-bye
No, father, no
Ezra, you have not forbidden him?-- Stay, father, and leave off wrong things. Ezra, I cannot bear it. How can I say to my father, 'Go and die
I have not said it
I have said, stay and be sheltered
Then you will stay, father -- and be taken care of -- and come with me
This is my sitting-room when I am not with Ezra, and there is a bed-room behind which shall be yours. You will stay and be good, father. Think that you are come back to my mother, and that she has forgiven you -- she speaks to you through me
I am become calm in beholding him now
and I try to think it possible that my sister's tenderness, and the daily tasting a life of peace, may win him to remain aloof from temptation. I have enjoined her, and she has promised, to trust him with no money. I have convinced her that he will buy with it his own destruction
Let all the writing be done here; for I cannot trust the papers out of my sight, lest there be an accident by burning or otherwise
You don't look much as if you had been in the country, old fellow. Is it Cambridge you have been to
No
I've been to I-don't-know-where -- No man's land -- and a mortally unpleasant country it is
You don't mean to say you have been drinking, Hans
Nothing so good. I've been smoking opium. I always meant to do it some time or other, to try how much bliss could be got by it; and having found myself just now rather out of other bliss, I thought it judicious to seize the opportunity. But I pledge you my word I shall never tap a cask of that bliss again. It disagrees with my constitution
What has been the matter? You were in good spirits enough when you wrote to me
Oh, nothing in particular. The world began to look seedy -- a sort of cabbage-garden with all the cabbages cut. A malady of genius, you may be sure
and, in fact, I was tired of being virtuous without reward, especially in this hot London weather
Nothing else? No real vexation
I came to tell you of my own affairs, but I can't do it with a good grace if you are to hide yours
Haven't an affair in the world
except a quarrel with a bric-a-brac man. Besides, as it is the first time in our lives that you ever spoke to me about your own affairs, you are only beginning to pay a pretty long debt
You laughed at the mystery of my journey to Italy, Hans
It was for an object that touched my happiness at the very roots. I had never known anything about my parents, and I really went to Genoa to meet my mother. My father has been long dead -- died when I was an infant. My mother was the daughter of an eminent Jew; my father was her cousin. Many things had caused me to think of this origin as almost a probability before I set out. I was so far prepared for the result that I was glad of it -- glad to find myself a Jew
You must not expect me to look surprised, Deronda
You knew it
My mother told me. She went to the house the morning after you had been there -- brother and sister both told her. You may imagine we can't rejoice as they do. But whatever you are glad of, I shall come to be glad of in the end -- _when_ exactly the end may be I can't predict
I quite understand that you can't share my feeling
but I could not let silence lie between us on what casts quite a new light over my future. I have taken up some of Mordecai's ideas, and I mean to try and carry them out, so far as one man's efforts can go. I dare say I shall by and by travel to the East and be away for some years
Excuse the question, but does Mrs. Grandcourt know of all this
No; and I must beg of you, Hans
to cease joking on that subject. Any notions you have are wide of the truth -- are the very reverse of the truth
I am no more inclined to joke than I shall be at my own funeral
But I am not at all sure that you are aware what are my notions on that subject
Perhaps not
But let me say, once for all, that in relation to Mrs. Grandcourt, I never have had, and never shall have the position of a lover. If you have ever seriously put that interpretation on anything you have observed, you are supremely mistaken
Perhaps I have been mistaken in another interpretation, also
What is that
That you had no wish to hold the position of a lover toward another woman, who is neither wife nor widow
I can't pretend not to understand you, Meyrick. It is painful that our wishes should clash. I hope you will tell me if you have any ground for supposing that you would succeed
That seems rather a superfluous inquiry on your part, Deronda
Why superfluous
Because you are perfectly convinced on the subject -- and probably have had the very best evidence to convince you
I will be more frank with you than you are with me
I have never had the slightest evidence that I should succeed myself. In fact, I have very little hope
And in our present situation
I don't see how I can deliberately make known my feeling to her. If she could not return it, I should have embittered her best comfort; for neither she nor I can be parted from her brother, and we should have to meet continually. If I were to cause her that sort of pain by an unwilling betrayal of my feeling, I should be no better than a mischievous animal
I don't know that I have ever betrayed _my_ feeling to her
You mean that we are on a level, then; you have no reason to envy me
Oh, not the slightest
You have measured my conceit and know what it out-tops ail your advantages
I am a nuisance to you, Meyrick. I am sorry, but I can't help it
After what passed between us before, I wished to have this explanation; and I don't see that any pretensions of mine have made a real difference to you. They are not likely to make any pleasant difference to myself under present circumstances. Now the father is there -- did you know that the father is there
Yes. If he were not a Jew I would permit myself to damn him -- with faint praise, I mean
She and I meet under greater constraint than ever. Things might go on in this way for two years without my getting any insight into her feeling toward me. That is the whole state of affairs, Hans. Neither you nor I have injured the other, that I can see. We must put up with this sort of rivalry in a hope that is likely enough to come to nothing. Our friendship can bear that strain, surely
No, it can't
Our friendship -- my friendship -- can't bear the strain of behaving to you like an ungrateful dastard and grudging you your happiness. For you _are_ the happiest dog in the world. If Mirah loves anybody better than her brother, _you are the man_
It is a good-natured fiction of yours, Hans
I am not in a good-natured mood. I assure you I found the fact disagreeable when it was thrust on me -- all the more, or perhaps all the less, because I believed then that your heart was pledged to the duchess. But now, confound you! you turn out to be in love in the right place -- a Jew -- and everything eligible
Tell me what convinced you -- there's a good fellow
Don't ask. Little mother was witness. The upshot is, that Mirah is jealous of the duchess, and the sooner you relieve your mind the better. There! I've cleared off a score or two, and may be allowed to swear at you for getting what you deserve -- which is just the very best luck I know of
God bless you, Hans
All thoughts, all passions, all delights, Whatever stirs this mortal frame, All are but ministers of Love, And feed his sacred flame
This little room is too close for you, Ezra
The week's heat we sometimes get here is worse than the heat in Genoa, where one sits in the shaded coolness of large rooms. You must have a better home now. I shall do as I like with you, being the stronger half
I am straitened for nothing except breath. But you, who might be in a spacious palace, with the wide green country around you, find this a narrow prison. Nevertheless, I cannot say, 'Go
Oh, the country would be a banishment while you are here
This is the happiest room in the world to me. Besides, I will imagine myself in the East, since I am getting ready to go there some day. Only I will not wear a cravat and a heavy ring there
I have been wearing my memorable ring ever since I came home
But I am such a Sybarite that I constantly put it off as a burden when I am doing anything. I understand why the Romans had summer rings -- _if_ they had them. Now then, I shall get on better
I only came in to see that Ezra had his new draught. I must go directly to Mrs. Meyrick's to fetch something
Pray allow me to walk with you
I must not tire Ezra any further; besides my brains are melting. I want to go to Mrs. Meyrick's: may I go with you
Oh, yes
Pray excuse my dishabille -- I did not mean you to see it
Good heavens, where is my ring gone
Did you lay it down
Yes
Was my father here
You have not found it
I perhaps put it in my pocket
It is not there?-- you put it on the table
Mirah, let me think that he is my father as well as yours -- that we can have no sorrow, no disgrace, no joy apart. I will rather take your grief to be mine than I would take the brightest joy of another woman. Say you will not reject me -- say you will take me to share all things with you. Say you will promise to be my wife -- say it now. I have been in doubt so long -- I have had to hide my love so long. Say that now and always I may prove to you that I love you with complete love
worthy of the best
yes
Let us go and comfort Ezra
The human nature unto which I felt That I belonged, and reverenced with love, Was not a punctual presence, but a spirit Diffused through time and space, with aid derived Of evidence from monuments, erect, Prostrate, or leaning toward their common rest In earth, the widely scattered wreck sublime Of vanished nations
Oh, nonsense, my dear! depend upon it, Dan will not make a fool of himself. He has large notions about Judaism -- political views which you can't understand. No fear but Dan will keep himself head uppermost
If it is an unkind cut to the poor thing (meaning Gwendolen), the longer she is without knowing it the better, in her present nervous state. And she will best learn it from Dan himself
in the Gainsborough style
his metal had given a better ring than he would have sworn to beforehand
When did you come down, Hans
Oh, ten days ago; before the time Sir Hugo fixed. I ran down with Rex Gascoigne and stayed at the rectory a day or two. I'm up in all the gossip of these parts; I know the state of the wheelwright's interior, and have assisted at an infant school examination. Sister Anna, with the good upper lip, escorted me, else I should have been mobbed by three urchins and an idiot, because of my long hair and a general appearance which departs from the Pennicote type of the beautiful. Altogether, the village is idyllic. Its only fault is a dark curate with broad shoulders and broad trousers who ought to have gone into the heavy drapery line. The Gascoignes are perfect -- besides being related to the Vandyke duchess. I caught a glimpse of her in her black robes at a distance, though she doesn't show to visitors
She was not staying at the rectory
No; but I was taken to Offendene to see the old house, and as a consequence I saw the duchess' family. I suppose you have been there and know all about them
Yes, I have been there
A fine old place. An excellent setting for a widow with romantic fortunes. And she seems to have had several romances. I think I have found out that there was one between her and my friend Rex
Not long before her marriage, then
for they had only been a year at Offendene. How came you to know anything of it
Oh -- not ignorant of what it is to be a miserable devil. I learn to gloat on the signs of misery in others. I found out that Rex never goes to Offendene, and has never seen the duchess since she came back; and Miss Gascoigne let fall something in our talk about charade-acting -- for I went through some of my nonsense to please the young ones -- something that proved to me that Rex was once hovering about his fair cousin close enough to get singed. I don't know what was her part in the affair. Perhaps the duke came in and carried her off. That is always the way when an exceptionally worthy young man forms an attachment. I understand now why Gascoigne talks of making the law his mistress and remaining a bachelor. But these are green resolves. Since the duke did not get himself drowned for your sake, it may turn out to be for my friend Rex's sake. Who knows
Is it absolutely necessary that Mrs. Grandcourt should marry again
You monster
do you want her to wear weeds for _you_ all her life -- burn herself in perpetual suttee while you are alive and merry
Why didn't she fall in love with me
She would have had no rivals. No woman ever wanted to discuss theology with me
You were afraid of coming to see me, because I was so full of grief and despair the last time. But I am not so today. I have been sorry ever since. I have been making it a reason why I should keep up my hope and be as cheerful as I can, because I would not give you any pain about me
I _am_ in some trouble to-day
but it is because I have things to tell you which you will almost think it a want of confidence on my part not to have spoken of before. They are things affecting my own life -- my own future. I shall seem to have made an ill return to you for the trust you have placed in me -- never to have given you an idea of events that make great changes for me. But when we have been together we have hardly had time to enter into subjects which at the moment were really less pressing to me than the trials you have been going through
You never thought of anything but what you could do to help me; and I was so troublesome. How could you tell me things
It will perhaps astonish you
that I have only quite lately known who were my parents
The reason why you found me in Italy was that I had gone there to learn that -- in fact, to meet my mother. It was by her wish that I was brought up in ignorance of my parentage. She parted with me after my father's death, when I was a little creature. But she is now very ill, and she felt that the secrecy ought not to be any longer maintained. Her chief reason had been that she did not wish me to know I was a Jew
_A Jew_
What difference need that have made
It has made a great difference to me that I have known it
I hope there is nothing to make you mind. _You_ are just the same as if you were not a Jew
The discovery was far from being painful to me
I had been gradually prepared for it, and I was glad of it. I had been prepared for it by becoming intimate with a very remarkable Jew, whose ideas have attracted me so much that I think of devoting the best part of my life to some effort at giving them effect
That is an object
which will by-and-by force me to leave England for some time -- for some years. I have purposes which will take me to the East
But you will come back
If I live
_some time_
What are you going to do
Can I understand the ideas, or am I too ignorant
I am going to the East to become better acquainted with the condition of my race in various countries there
The idea that I am possessed with is that of restoring a political existence to my people, making them a nation again, giving them a national center, such as the English has, though they too are scattered over the face of the globe. That is a task which presents itself to me as a duty; I am resolved to begin it, however feebly. I am resolved to devote my life to it. At the least, I may awaken a movement in other minds, such as has been awakened in my own
Is that all you can tell me
The Jew whom I mentioned just now
the remarkable man who has greatly influenced my mind, has not perhaps been totally unheard of by you. He is the brother of Miss Lapidoth, whom you have often heard sing
He is very ill -- very near death now
Did she tell you that I went to her
No
I don't understand you
But _can_ you marry
Yes
I am going to marry
I said I should be forsaken. I have been a cruel woman. And I am forsaken
I am cruel, too, I am cruel
I said -- I said -- it should be better -- better with me -- for having known you
We shall not be quite parted
I will write to you always, when I can, and you will answer
I will try
I shall be more with you than I used to be
If we had been much together before, we should have felt our differences more, and seemed to get farther apart. Now we can perhaps never see each other again. But our minds may get nearer
You have been very good to me. I have deserved nothing. I will try -- try to live. I shall think of you. What good have I been? Only harm. Don't let me be harm to _you_. It shall be the better for me
Gwendolen, dearest, you look very ill
Yes, mamma. But don't be afraid. I am going to live
Don't be afraid. I shall live. I mean to live
Ah, poor mamma! You have been sitting up with me. Don't be unhappy. I shall live. I shall be better
_To the bride of our dear Daniel Deronda all blessings. H. and L. M
Never mind where I die, so that I am with you
Do not quit me to-day. I shall die before it is ended
Death is coming to me as the divine kiss which is both parting and reunion -- which takes me from your bodily eyes and gives me full presence in your soul. Where thou goest, Daniel, I shall go. Is it not begun? Have I not breathed my soul into you? We shall live together
Nothing is here for tears, nothing to wail Or knock the breast; no weakness, no contempt, Dispraise or blame; nothing but well and fair, And what may quiet us in a death so noble
</text>
