<text>
It is your best work, Basil, the best thing you have ever done
You must certainly send it next year to the Grosvenor. The Academy is too large and too vulgar. Whenever I have gone there, there have been either so many people that I have not been able to see the pictures, which was dreadful, or so many pictures that I have not been able to see the people, which was worse. The Grosvenor is really the only place
I don't think I shall send it anywhere
No, I won't send it anywhere
Not send it anywhere? My dear fellow, why? Have you any reason? What odd chaps you painters are! You do anything in the world to gain a reputation. As soon as you have one, you seem to want to throw it away. It is silly of you, for there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about. A portrait like this would set you far above all the young men in England, and make the old men quite jealous, if old men are ever capable of any emotion
I know you will laugh at me
but I really can't exhibit it. I have put too much of myself into it
Yes, I knew you would; but it is quite true, all the same
Too much of yourself in it! Upon my word, Basil, I didn't know you were so vain; and I really can't see any resemblance between you, with your rugged strong face and your coal-black hair, and this young Adonis, who looks as if he was made out of ivory and rose-leaves. Why, my dear Basil, he is a Narcissus, and you -- well, of course you have an intellectual expression and all that. But beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins. Intellect is in itself a mode of exaggeration, and destroys the harmony of any face. The moment one sits down to think, one becomes all nose, or all forehead, or something horrid. Look at the successful men in any of the learned professions. How perfectly hideous they are! Except, of course, in the Church. But then in the Church they don't think. A bishop keeps on saying at the age of eighty what he was told to say when he was a boy of eighteen, and as a natural consequence he always looks absolutely delightful. Your mysterious young friend, whose name you have never told me, but whose picture really fascinates me, never thinks. I feel quite sure of that. He is some brainless beautiful creature who should be always here in winter when we have no flowers to look at, and always here in summer when we want something to chill our intelligence. Don't flatter yourself, Basil: you are not in the least like him
You don't understand me, Harry
Of course I am not like him. I know that perfectly well. Indeed, I should be sorry to look like him. You shrug your shoulders? I am telling you the truth. There is a fatality about all physical and intellectual distinction, the sort of fatality that seems to dog through history the faltering steps of kings. It is better not to be different from one's fellows. The ugly and the stupid have the best of it in this world. They can sit at their ease and gape at the play. If they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat. They live as we all should live -- undisturbed, indifferent, and without disquiet. They neither bring ruin upon others, nor ever receive it from alien hands. Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are -- my art, whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray's good looks -- we shall all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly
Dorian Gray? Is that his name
Yes, that is his name. I didn't intend to tell it to you
But why not
Oh, I can't explain. When I like people immensely, I never tell their names to any one. It is like surrendering a part of them. I have grown to love secrecy. It seems to be the one thing that can make modern life mysterious or marvellous to us. The commonest thing is delightful if one only hides it. When I leave town now I never tell my people where I am going. If I did, I would lose all my pleasure. It is a silly habit, I dare say, but somehow it seems to bring a great deal of romance into one's life. I suppose you think me awfully foolish about it
Not at all
not at all, my dear Basil. You seem to forget that I am married, and the one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties. I never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what I am doing. When we meet -- we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together, or go down to the Duke's -- we tell each other the most absurd stories with the most serious faces. My wife is very good at it -- much better, in fact, than I am. She never gets confused over her dates, and I always do. But when she does find me out, she makes no row at all. I sometimes wish she would; but she merely laughs at me
I hate the way you talk about your married life, Harry
I believe that you are really a very good husband, but that you are thoroughly ashamed of your own virtues. You are an extraordinary fellow. You never say a moral thing, and you never do a wrong thing. Your cynicism is simply a pose
Being natural is simply a pose, and the most irritating pose I know
I am afraid I must be going, Basil
and before I go, I insist on your answering a question I put to you some time ago
What is that
You know quite well
I do not, Harry
Well, I will tell you what it is. I want you to explain to me why you won't exhibit Dorian Gray's picture. I want the real reason
I told you the real reason
No, you did not. You said it was because there was too much of yourself in it. Now, that is childish
Harry
every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter. The sitter is merely the accident, the occasion. It is not he who is revealed by the painter; it is rather the painter who, on the coloured canvas, reveals himself. The reason I will not exhibit this picture is that I am afraid that I have shown in it the secret of my own soul
And what is that
I will tell you
I am all expectation, Basil
Oh, there is really very little to tell, Harry
and I am afraid you will hardly understand it. Perhaps you will hardly believe it
I am quite sure I shall understand it
and as for believing things, I can believe anything, provided that it is quite incredible
The story is simply this
Two months ago I went to a crush at Lady Brandon's. You know we poor artists have to show ourselves in society from time to time, just to remind the public that we are not savages. With an evening coat and a white tie, as you told me once, anybody, even a stock-broker, can gain a reputation for being civilized. Well, after I had been in the room about ten minutes, talking to huge overdressed dowagers and tedious academicians, I suddenly became conscious that some one was looking at me. I turned half-way round and saw Dorian Gray for the first time. When our eyes met, I felt that I was growing pale. A curious sensation of terror came over me. I knew that I had come face to face with some one whose mere personality was so fascinating that, if I allowed it to do so, it would absorb my whole nature, my whole soul, my very art itself. I did not want any external influence in my life. You know yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature. I have always been my own master; had at least always been so, till I met Dorian Gray. Then -- but I don't know how to explain it to you. Something seemed to tell me that I was on the verge of a terrible crisis in my life. I had a strange feeling that fate had in store for me exquisite joys and exquisite sorrows. I grew afraid and turned to quit the room. It was not conscience that made me do so: it was a sort of cowardice. I take no credit to myself for trying to escape
Conscience and cowardice are really the same things, Basil. Conscience is the trade-name of the firm. That is all
I don't believe that, Harry, and I don't believe you do either. However, whatever was my motive -- and it may have been pride, for I used to be very proud -- I certainly struggled to the door. There, of course, I stumbled against Lady Brandon. 'You are not going to run away so soon, Mr. Hallward?' she screamed out. You know her curiously shrill voice
Yes; she is a peacock in everything but beauty
I could not get rid of her. She brought me up to royalties, and people with stars and garters, and elderly ladies with gigantic tiaras and parrot noses. She spoke of me as her dearest friend. I had only met her once before, but she took it into her head to lionize me. I believe some picture of mine had made a great success at the time, at least had been chattered about in the penny newspapers, which is the nineteenth-century standard of immortality. Suddenly I found myself face to face with the young man whose personality had so strangely stirred me. We were quite close, almost touching. Our eyes met again. It was reckless of me, but I asked Lady Brandon to introduce me to him. Perhaps it was not so reckless, after all. It was simply inevitable. We would have spoken to each other without any introduction. I am sure of that. Dorian told me so afterwards. He, too, felt that we were destined to know each other
And how did Lady Brandon describe this wonderful young man
I know she goes in for giving a rapid precis of all her guests. I remember her bringing me up to a truculent and red-faced old gentleman covered all over with orders and ribbons, and hissing into my ear, in a tragic whisper which must have been perfectly audible to everybody in the room, the most astounding details. I simply fled. I like to find out people for myself. But Lady Brandon treats her guests exactly as an auctioneer treats his goods. She either explains them entirely away, or tells one everything about them except what one wants to know
Poor Lady Brandon! You are hard on her, Harry
My dear fellow, she tried to found a salon, and only succeeded in opening a restaurant. How could I admire her? But tell me, what did she say about Mr. Dorian Gray
Oh, something like, 'Charming boy -- poor dear mother and I absolutely inseparable. Quite forget what he does -- afraid he -- doesn't do anything -- oh, yes, plays the piano -- or is it the violin, dear Mr. Gray?' Neither of us could help laughing, and we became friends at once
Laughter is not at all a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is far the best ending for one
You don't understand what friendship is, Harry
or what enmity is, for that matter. You like every one; that is to say, you are indifferent to every one
How horribly unjust of you
Yes; horribly unjust of you. I make a great difference between people. I choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their good intellects. A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies. I have not got one who is a fool. They are all men of some intellectual power, and consequently they all appreciate me. Is that very vain of me? I think it is rather vain
I should think it was, Harry. But according to your category I must be merely an acquaintance
My dear old Basil, you are much more than an acquaintance
And much less than a friend. A sort of brother, I suppose
Oh, brothers! I don't care for brothers. My elder brother won't die, and my younger brothers seem never to do anything else
Harry
My dear fellow, I am not quite serious. But I can't help detesting my relations. I suppose it comes from the fact that none of us can stand other people having the same faults as ourselves. I quite sympathize with the rage of the English democracy against what they call the vices of the upper orders. The masses feel that drunkenness, stupidity, and immorality should be their own special property, and that if any one of us makes an ass of himself, he is poaching on their preserves. When poor Southwark got into the divorce court, their indignation was quite magnificent. And yet I don't suppose that ten per cent of the proletariat live correctly
I don't agree with a single word that you have said, and, what is more, Harry, I feel sure you don't either
How English you are Basil! That is the second time you have made that observation. If one puts forward an idea to a true Englishman -- always a rash thing to do -- he never dreams of considering whether the idea is right or wrong. The only thing he considers of any importance is whether one believes it oneself. Now, the value of an idea has nothing whatsoever to do with the sincerity of the man who expresses it. Indeed, the probabilities are that the more insincere the man is, the more purely intellectual will the idea be, as in that case it will not be coloured by either his wants, his desires, or his prejudices. However, I don't propose to discuss politics, sociology, or metaphysics with you. I like persons better than principles, and I like persons with no principles better than anything else in the world. Tell me more about Mr. Dorian Gray. How often do you see him
Every day. I couldn't be happy if I didn't see him every day. He is absolutely necessary to me
How extraordinary! I thought you would never care for anything but your art
He is all my art to me now
I sometimes think, Harry, that there are only two eras of any importance in the world's history. The first is the appearance of a new medium for art, and the second is the appearance of a new personality for art also. What the invention of oil-painting was to the Venetians, the face of Antinous was to late Greek sculpture, and the face of Dorian Gray will some day be to me. It is not merely that I paint from him, draw from him, sketch from him. Of course, I have done all that. But he is much more to me than a model or a sitter. I won't tell you that I am dissatisfied with what I have done of him, or that his beauty is such that art cannot express it. There is nothing that art cannot express, and I know that the work I have done, since I met Dorian Gray, is good work, is the best work of my life. But in some curious way -- I wonder will you understand me?-- his personality has suggested to me an entirely new manner in art, an entirely new mode of style. I see things differently, I think of them differently. I can now recreate life in a way that was hidden from me before. 'A dream of form in days of thought'-- who is it who says that? I forget; but it is what Dorian Gray has been to me. The merely visible presence of this lad -- for he seems to me little more than a lad, though he is really over twenty -- his merely visible presence -- ah! I wonder can you realize all that that means? Unconsciously he defines for me the lines of a fresh school, a school that is to have in it all the passion of the romantic spirit, all the perfection of the spirit that is Greek. The harmony of soul and body -- how much that is! We in our madness have separated the two, and have invented a realism that is vulgar, an ideality that is void. Harry! if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me! You remember that landscape of mine, for which Agnew offered me such a huge price but which I would not part with? It is one of the best things I have ever done. And why is it so? Because, while I was painting it, Dorian Gray sat beside me. Some subtle influence passed from him to me, and for the first time in my life I saw in the plain woodland the wonder I had always looked for and always missed
Basil, this is extraordinary! I must see Dorian Gray
Harry
Dorian Gray is to me simply a motive in art. You might see nothing in him. I see everything in him. He is never more present in my work than when no image of him is there. He is a suggestion, as I have said, of a new manner. I find him in the curves of certain lines, in the loveliness and subtleties of certain colours. That is all
Then why won't you exhibit his portrait
Because, without intending it, I have put into it some expression of all this curious artistic idolatry, of which, of course, I have never cared to speak to him. He knows nothing about it. He shall never know anything about it. But the world might guess it, and I will not bare my soul to their shallow prying eyes. My heart shall never be put under their microscope. There is too much of myself in the thing, Harry -- too much of myself
Poets are not so scrupulous as you are. They know how useful passion is for publication. Nowadays a broken heart will run to many editions
I hate them for it
An artist should create beautiful things, but should put nothing of his own life into them. We live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of autobiography. We have lost the abstract sense of beauty. Some day I will show the world what it is; and for that reason the world shall never see my portrait of Dorian Gray
I think you are wrong, Basil, but I won't argue with you. It is only the intellectually lost who ever argue. Tell me, is Dorian Gray very fond of you
He likes me
I know he likes me. Of course I flatter him dreadfully. I find a strange pleasure in saying things to him that I know I shall be sorry for having said. As a rule, he is charming to me, and we sit in the studio and talk of a thousand things. Now and then, however, he is horribly thoughtless, and seems to take a real delight in giving me pain. Then I feel, Harry, that I have given away my whole soul to some one who treats it as if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of decoration to charm his vanity, an ornament for a summer's day
Days in summer, Basil, are apt to linger
Perhaps you will tire sooner than he will. It is a sad thing to think of, but there is no doubt that genius lasts longer than beauty. That accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to over-educate ourselves. In the wild struggle for existence, we want to have something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place. The thoroughly well-informed man -- that is the modern ideal. And the mind of the thoroughly well-informed man is a dreadful thing. It is like a bric-a-brac shop, all monsters and dust, with everything priced above its proper value. I think you will tire first, all the same. Some day you will look at your friend, and he will seem to you to be a little out of drawing, or you won't like his tone of colour, or something. You will bitterly reproach him in your own heart, and seriously think that he has behaved very badly to you. The next time he calls, you will be perfectly cold and indifferent. It will be a great pity, for it will alter you. What you have told me is quite a romance, a romance of art one might call it, and the worst of having a romance of any kind is that it leaves one so unromantic
Harry, don't talk like that. As long as I live, the personality of Dorian Gray will dominate me. You can't feel what I feel. You change too often
Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it. Those who are faithful know only the trivial side of love: it is the faithless who know love's tragedies
My dear fellow, I have just remembered
Remembered what, Harry
Where I heard the name of Dorian Gray
Where was it
Don't look so angry, Basil. It was at my aunt, Lady Agatha's. She told me she had discovered a wonderful young man who was going to help her in the East End, and that his name was Dorian Gray. I am bound to state that she never told me he was good-looking. Women have no appreciation of good looks; at least, good women have not. She said that he was very earnest and had a beautiful nature. I at once pictured to myself a creature with spectacles and lank hair, horribly freckled, and tramping about on huge feet. I wish I had known it was your friend
I am very glad you didn't, Harry
Why
I don't want you to meet him
You don't want me to meet him
No
Mr. Dorian Gray is in the studio, sir
You must introduce me now
Ask Mr. Gray to wait, Parker: I shall be in in a few moments
Dorian Gray is my dearest friend
He has a simple and a beautiful nature. Your aunt was quite right in what she said of him. Don't spoil him. Don't try to influence him. Your influence would be bad. The world is wide, and has many marvellous people in it. Don't take away from me the one person who gives to my art whatever charm it possesses: my life as an artist depends on him. Mind, Harry, I trust you
What nonsense you talk
Forest Scenes
You must lend me these, Basil
I want to learn them. They are perfectly charming
That entirely depends on how you sit to-day, Dorian
Oh, I am tired of sitting, and I don't want a life-sized portrait of myself
I beg your pardon, Basil, but I didn't know you had any one with you
This is Lord Henry Wotton, Dorian, an old Oxford friend of mine. I have just been telling him what a capital sitter you were, and now you have spoiled everything
You have not spoiled my pleasure in meeting you, Mr. Gray
My aunt has often spoken to me about you. You are one of her favourites, and, I am afraid, one of her victims also
I am in Lady Agatha's black books at present
I promised to go to a club in Whitechapel with her last Tuesday, and I really forgot all about it. We were to have played a duet together -- three duets, I believe. I don't know what she will say to me. I am far too frightened to call
Oh, I will make your peace with my aunt. She is quite devoted to you. And I don't think it really matters about your not being there. The audience probably thought it was a duet. When Aunt Agatha sits down to the piano, she makes quite enough noise for two people
That is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me
You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray -- far too charming
Harry, I want to finish this picture to-day. Would you think it awfully rude of me if I asked you to go away
Am I to go, Mr. Gray
Oh, please don't, Lord Henry. I see that Basil is in one of his sulky moods, and I can't bear him when he sulks. Besides, I want you to tell me why I should not go in for philanthropy
I don't know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray. It is so tedious a subject that one would have to talk seriously about it. But I certainly shall not run away, now that you have asked me to stop. You don't really mind, Basil, do you? You have often told me that you liked your sitters to have some one to chat to
If Dorian wishes it, of course you must stay. Dorian's whims are laws to everybody, except himself
You are very pressing, Basil, but I am afraid I must go. I have promised to meet a man at the Orleans. Good-bye, Mr. Gray. Come and see me some afternoon in Curzon Street. I am nearly always at home at five o'clock. Write to me when you are coming. I should be sorry to miss you
Basil
if Lord Henry Wotton goes, I shall go, too. You never open your lips while you are painting, and it is horribly dull standing on a platform and trying to look pleasant. Ask him to stay. I insist upon it
Stay, Harry, to oblige Dorian, and to oblige me
It is quite true, I never talk when I am working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious for my unfortunate sitters. I beg you to stay
But what about my man at the Orleans
I don't think there will be any difficulty about that. Sit down again, Harry. And now, Dorian, get up on the platform, and don't move about too much, or pay any attention to what Lord Henry says. He has a very bad influence over all his friends, with the single exception of myself
Have you really a very bad influence, Lord Henry? As bad as Basil says
There is no such thing as a good influence, Mr. Gray. All influence is immoral -- immoral from the scientific point of view
Why
Because to influence a person is to give him one's own soul. He does not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions. His virtues are not real to him. His sins, if there are such things as sins, are borrowed. He becomes an echo of some one else's music, an actor of a part that has not been written for him. The aim of life is self-development. To realize one's nature perfectly -- that is what each of us is here for. People are afraid of themselves, nowadays. They have forgotten the highest of all duties, the duty that one owes to one's self. Of course, they are charitable. They feed the hungry and clothe the beggar. But their own souls starve, and are naked. Courage has gone out of our race. Perhaps we never really had it. The terror of society, which is the basis of morals, the terror of God, which is the secret of religion -- these are the two things that govern us. And yet
Just turn your head a little more to the right, Dorian, like a good boy
And yet
I believe that if one man were to live out his life fully and completely, were to give form to every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream -- I believe that the world would gain such a fresh impulse of joy that we would forget all the maladies of mediaevalism, and return to the Hellenic ideal -- to something finer, richer than the Hellenic ideal, it may be. But the bravest man amongst us is afraid of himself. The mutilation of the savage has its tragic survival in the self-denial that mars our lives. We are punished for our refusals. Every impulse that we strive to strangle broods in the mind and poisons us. The body sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of purification. Nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure, or the luxury of a regret. The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it. Resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing for the things it has forbidden to itself, with desire for what its monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful. It has been said that the great events of the world take place in the brain. It is in the brain, and the brain only, that the great sins of the world take place also. You, Mr. Gray, you yourself, with your rose-red youth and your rose-white boyhood, you have had passions that have made you afraid, thoughts that have filled you with terror, day-dreams and sleeping dreams whose mere memory might stain your cheek with shame
Stop
stop! you bewilder me. I don't know what to say. There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it. Don't speak. Let me think. Or, rather, let me try not to think
Basil, I am tired of standing
I must go out and sit in the garden. The air is stifling here
My dear fellow, I am so sorry. When I am painting, I can't think of anything else. But you never sat better. You were perfectly still. And I have caught the effect I wanted -- the half-parted lips and the bright look in the eyes. I don't know what Harry has been saying to you, but he has certainly made you have the most wonderful expression. I suppose he has been paying you compliments. You mustn't believe a word that he says
He has certainly not been paying me compliments. Perhaps that is the reason that I don't believe anything he has told me
You know you believe it all
I will go out to the garden with you. It is horribly hot in the studio. Basil, let us have something iced to drink, something with strawberries in it
Certainly, Harry. Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I will tell him what you want. I have got to work up this background, so I will join you later on. Don't keep Dorian too long. I have never been in better form for painting than I am to-day. This is going to be my masterpiece. It is my masterpiece as it stands
You are quite right to do that
Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul
Yes
that is one of the great secrets of life -- to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul. You are a wonderful creation. You know more than you think you know, just as you know less than you want to know
Let us go and sit in the shade
Parker has brought out the drinks, and if you stay any longer in this glare, you will be quite spoiled, and Basil will never paint you again. You really must not allow yourself to become sunburnt. It would be unbecoming
What can it matter
It should matter everything to you, Mr. Gray
Why
Because you have the most marvellous youth, and youth is the one thing worth having
I don't feel that, Lord Henry
No, you don't feel it now. Some day, when you are old and wrinkled and ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its lines, and passion branded your lips with its hideous fires, you will feel it, you will feel it terribly. Now, wherever you go, you charm the world. Will it always be so? . . . You have a wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray. Don't frown. You have. And beauty is a form of genius -- is higher, indeed, than genius, as it needs no explanation. It is of the great facts of the world, like sunlight, or spring-time, or the reflection in dark waters of that silver shell we call the moon. It cannot be questioned. It has its divine right of sovereignty. It makes princes of those who have it. You smile? Ah! when you have lost it you won't smile. . . . People say sometimes that beauty is only superficial. That may be so, but at least it is not so superficial as thought is. To me, beauty is the wonder of wonders. It is only shallow people who do not judge by appearances. The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible. . . . Yes, Mr. Gray, the gods have been good to you. But what the gods give they quickly take away. You have only a few years in which to live really, perfectly, and fully. When your youth goes, your beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly discover that there are no triumphs left for you, or have to content yourself with those mean triumphs that the memory of your past will make more bitter than defeats. Every month as it wanes brings you nearer to something dreadful. Time is jealous of you, and wars against your lilies and your roses. You will become sallow, and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed. You will suffer horribly.... Ah! realize your youth while you have it. Don't squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying to improve the hopeless failure, or giving away your life to the ignorant, the common, and the vulgar. These are the sickly aims, the false ideals, of our age. Live! Live the wonderful life that is in you! Let nothing be lost upon you. Be always searching for new sensations. Be afraid of nothing. . . . A new Hedonism -- that is what our century wants. You might be its visible symbol. With your personality there is nothing you could not do. The world belongs to you for a season. . . . The moment I met you I saw that you were quite unconscious of what you really are, of what you really might be. There was so much in you that charmed me that I felt I must tell you something about yourself. I thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted. For there is such a little time that your youth will last -- such a little time. The common hill-flowers wither, but they blossom again. The laburnum will be as yellow next June as it is now. In a month there will be purple stars on the clematis, and year after year the green night of its leaves will hold its purple stars. But we never get back our youth. The pulse of joy that beats in us at twenty becomes sluggish. Our limbs fail, our senses rot. We degenerate into hideous puppets, haunted by the memory of the passions of which we were too much afraid, and the exquisite temptations that we had not the courage to yield to. Youth! Youth! There is absolutely nothing in the world but youth
I am waiting
Do come in. The light is quite perfect, and you can bring your drinks
You are glad you have met me, Mr. Gray
Yes, I am glad now. I wonder shall I always be glad
Always! That is a dreadful word. It makes me shudder when I hear it. Women are so fond of using it. They spoil every romance by trying to make it last for ever. It is a meaningless word, too. The only difference between a caprice and a lifelong passion is that the caprice lasts a little longer
In that case, let our friendship be a caprice
It is quite finished
My dear fellow, I congratulate you most warmly
It is the finest portrait of modern times. Mr. Gray, come over and look at yourself
Is it really finished
Quite finished
And you have sat splendidly to-day. I am awfully obliged to you
That is entirely due to me
Isn't it, Mr. Gray
Don't you like it
Of course he likes it
Who wouldn't like it? It is one of the greatest things in modern art. I will give you anything you like to ask for it. I must have it
It is not my property, Harry
Whose property is it
Dorian's, of course
He is a very lucky fellow
How sad it is
How sad it is! I shall grow old, and horrible, and dreadful. But this picture will remain always young. It will never be older than this particular day of June. . . . If it were only the other way! If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old! For that -- for that -- I would give everything! Yes, there is nothing in the whole world I would not give! I would give my soul for that
You would hardly care for such an arrangement, Basil
It would be rather hard lines on your work
I should object very strongly, Harry
I believe you would, Basil. You like your art better than your friends. I am no more to you than a green bronze figure. Hardly as much, I dare say
Yes
I am less to you than your ivory Hermes or your silver Faun. You will like them always. How long will you like me? Till I have my first wrinkle, I suppose. I know, now, that when one loses one's good looks, whatever they may be, one loses everything. Your picture has taught me that. Lord Henry Wotton is perfectly right. Youth is the only thing worth having. When I find that I am growing old, I shall kill myself
Dorian! Dorian
don't talk like that. I have never had such a friend as you, and I shall never have such another. You are not jealous of material things, are you?-- you who are finer than any of them
I am jealous of everything whose beauty does not die. I am jealous of the portrait you have painted of me. Why should it keep what I must lose? Every moment that passes takes something from me and gives something to it. Oh, if it were only the other way! If the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint it? It will mock me some day -- mock me horribly
This is your doing, Harry
It is the real Dorian Gray -- that is all
It is not
If it is not, what have I to do with it
You should have gone away when I asked you
I stayed when you asked me
Harry, I can't quarrel with my two best friends at once, but between you both you have made me hate the finest piece of work I have ever done, and I will destroy it. What is it but canvas and colour? I will not let it come across our three lives and mar them
Don't, Basil, don't
It would be murder
I am glad you appreciate my work at last, Dorian
I never thought you would
Appreciate it? I am in love with it, Basil. It is part of myself. I feel that
Well, as soon as you are dry, you shall be varnished, and framed, and sent home. Then you can do what you like with yourself
You will have tea, of course, Dorian? And so will you, Harry? Or do you object to such simple pleasures
I adore simple pleasures
They are the last refuge of the complex. But I don't like scenes, except on the stage. What absurd fellows you are, both of you! I wonder who it was defined man as a rational animal. It was the most premature definition ever given. Man is many things, but he is not rational. I am glad he is not, after all -- though I wish you chaps would not squabble over the picture. You had much better let me have it, Basil. This silly boy doesn't really want it, and I really do
If you let any one have it but me, Basil, I shall never forgive you
and I don't allow people to call me a silly boy
You know the picture is yours, Dorian. I gave it to you before it existed
And you know you have been a little silly, Mr. Gray, and that you don't really object to being reminded that you are extremely young
I should have objected very strongly this morning, Lord Henry
Ah! this morning! You have lived since then
Let us go to the theatre to-night
There is sure to be something on, somewhere. I have promised to dine at White's, but it is only with an old friend, so I can send him a wire to say that I am ill, or that I am prevented from coming in consequence of a subsequent engagement. I think that would be a rather nice excuse: it would have all the surprise of candour
It is such a bore putting on one's dress-clothes
And, when one has them on, they are so horrid
Yes
the costume of the nineteenth century is detestable. It is so sombre, so depressing. Sin is the only real colour-element left in modern life
You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry
Before which Dorian? The one who is pouring out tea for us, or the one in the picture
Before either
I should like to come to the theatre with you, Lord Henry
Then you shall come; and you will come, too, Basil, won't you
I can't, really. I would sooner not. I have a lot of work to do
Well, then, you and I will go alone, Mr. Gray
I should like that awfully
I shall stay with the real Dorian
Is it the real Dorian
Am I really like that
Yes; you are just like that
How wonderful, Basil
At least you are like it in appearance. But it will never alter
That is something
What a fuss people make about fidelity
Why, even in love it is purely a question for physiology. It has nothing to do with our own will. Young men want to be faithful, and are not; old men want to be faithless, and cannot: that is all one can say
Don't go to the theatre to-night, Dorian
Stop and dine with me
I can't, Basil
Why
Because I have promised Lord Henry Wotton to go with him
He won't like you the better for keeping your promises. He always breaks his own. I beg you not to go
I entreat you
I must go, Basil
Very well
It is rather late, and, as you have to dress, you had better lose no time. Good-bye, Harry. Good-bye, Dorian. Come and see me soon. Come to-morrow
Certainly
You won't forget
No, of course not
And ... Harry
Yes, Basil
Remember what I asked you, when we were in the garden this morning
I have forgotten it
I trust you
I wish I could trust myself
Come, Mr. Gray, my hansom is outside, and I can drop you at your own place. Good-bye, Basil. It has been a most interesting afternoon
Well, Harry
what brings you out so early? I thought you dandies never got up till two, and were not visible till five
Pure family affection, I assure you, Uncle George. I want to get something out of you
Money, I suppose
Well, sit down and tell me all about it. Young people, nowadays, imagine that money is everything
Yes
and when they grow older they know it. But I don't want money. It is only people who pay their bills who want that, Uncle George, and I never pay mine. Credit is the capital of a younger son, and one lives charmingly upon it. Besides, I always deal with Dartmoor's tradesmen, and consequently they never bother me. What I want is information: not useful information, of course; useless information
Well, I can tell you anything that is in an English Blue Book, Harry, although those fellows nowadays write a lot of nonsense. When I was in the Diplomatic, things were much better. But I hear they let them in now by examination. What can you expect? Examinations, sir, are pure humbug from beginning to end. If a man is a gentleman, he knows quite enough, and if he is not a gentleman, whatever he knows is bad for him
Mr. Dorian Gray does not belong to Blue Books, Uncle George
Mr. Dorian Gray? Who is he
That is what I have come to learn, Uncle George. Or rather, I know who he is. He is the last Lord Kelso's grandson. His mother was a Devereux, Lady Margaret Devereaux. I want you to tell me about his mother. What was she like? Whom did she marry? You have known nearly everybody in your time, so you might have known her. I am very much interested in Mr. Gray at present. I have only just met him
Kelso's grandson
Kelso's grandson! ... Of course.... I knew his mother intimately. I believe I was at her christening. She was an extraordinarily beautiful girl, Margaret Devereux, and made all the men frantic by running away with a penniless young fellow -- a mere nobody, sir, a subaltern in a foot regiment, or something of that kind. Certainly. I remember the whole thing as if it happened yesterday. The poor chap was killed in a duel at Spa a few months after the marriage. There was an ugly story about it. They said Kelso got some rascally adventurer, some Belgian brute, to insult his son-in-law in public -- paid him, sir, to do it, paid him -- and that the fellow spitted his man as if he had been a pigeon. The thing was hushed up, but, egad, Kelso ate his chop alone at the club for some time afterwards. He brought his daughter back with him, I was told, and she never spoke to him again. Oh, yes; it was a bad business. The girl died, too, died within a year. So she left a son, did she? I had forgotten that. What sort of boy is he? If he is like his mother, he must be a good-looking chap
He is very good-looking
I hope he will fall into proper hands
He should have a pot of money waiting for him if Kelso did the right thing by him. His mother had money, too. All the Selby property came to her, through her grandfather. Her grandfather hated Kelso, thought him a mean dog. He was, too. Came to Madrid once when I was there. Egad, I was ashamed of him. The Queen used to ask me about the English noble who was always quarrelling with the cabmen about their fares. They made quite a story of it. I didn't dare show my face at Court for a month. I hope he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies
I don't know
I fancy that the boy will be well off. He is not of age yet. He has Selby, I know. He told me so. And . . . his mother was very beautiful
Margaret Devereux was one of the loveliest creatures I ever saw, Harry. What on earth induced her to behave as she did, I never could understand. She could have married anybody she chose. Carlington was mad after her. She was romantic, though. All the women of that family were. The men were a poor lot, but, egad! the women were wonderful. Carlington went on his knees to her. Told me so himself. She laughed at him, and there wasn't a girl in London at the time who wasn't after him. And by the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this humbug your father tells me about Dartmoor wanting to marry an American? Ain't English girls good enough for him
It is rather fashionable to marry Americans just now, Uncle George
I'll back English women against the world, Harry
The betting is on the Americans
They don't last, I am told
A long engagement exhausts them, but they are capital at a steeplechase. They take things flying. I don't think Dartmoor has a chance
Who are her people
Has she got any
American girls are as clever at concealing their parents, as English women are at concealing their past
They are pork-packers, I suppose
I hope so, Uncle George, for Dartmoor's sake. I am told that pork-packing is the most lucrative profession in America, after politics
Is she pretty
She behaves as if she was beautiful. Most American women do. It is the secret of their charm
Why can't these American women stay in their own country? They are always telling us that it is the paradise for women
It is. That is the reason why, like Eve, they are so excessively anxious to get out of it
Good-bye, Uncle George. I shall be late for lunch, if I stop any longer. Thanks for giving me the information I wanted. I always like to know everything about my new friends, and nothing about my old ones
Where are you lunching, Harry
At Aunt Agatha's. I have asked myself and Mr. Gray. He is her latest protege
Humph! tell your Aunt Agatha, Harry, not to bother me any more with her charity appeals. I am sick of them. Why, the good woman thinks that I have nothing to do but to write cheques for her silly fads
All right, Uncle George, I'll tell her, but it won't have any effect. Philanthropic people lose all sense of humanity. It is their distinguishing characteristic
Late as usual, Harry
We are talking about poor Dartmoor, Lord Henry
Do you think he will really marry this fascinating young person
I believe she has made up her mind to propose to him, Duchess
How dreadful
Really, some one should interfere
I am told, on excellent authority, that her father keeps an American dry-goods store
My uncle has already suggested pork-packing Sir Thomas
Dry-goods! What are American dry-goods
American novels
Don't mind him, my dear
He never means anything that he says
When America was discovered
I wish to goodness it never had been discovered at all
Really, our girls have no chance nowadays. It is most unfair
Perhaps, after all, America never has been discovered
I myself would say that it had merely been detected
Oh! but I have seen specimens of the inhabitants
I must confess that most of them are extremely pretty. And they dress well, too. They get all their dresses in Paris. I wish I could afford to do the same
They say that when good Americans die they go to Paris
Really! And where do bad Americans go to when they die
They go to America
I am afraid that your nephew is prejudiced against that great country
I have travelled all over it in cars provided by the directors, who, in such matters, are extremely civil. I assure you that it is an education to visit it
But must we really see Chicago in order to be educated
I don't feel up to the journey
Mr. Erskine of Treadley has the world on his shelves. We practical men like to see things, not to read about them. The Americans are an extremely interesting people. They are absolutely reasonable. I think that is their distinguishing characteristic. Yes, Mr. Erskine, an absolutely reasonable people. I assure you there is no nonsense about the Americans
How dreadful
I can stand brute force, but brute reason is quite unbearable. There is something unfair about its use. It is hitting below the intellect
I do not understand you
I do, Lord Henry
Paradoxes are all very well in their way
Was that a paradox
I did not think so. Perhaps it was. Well, the way of paradoxes is the way of truth. To test reality we must see it on the tight rope. When the verities become acrobats, we can judge them
Dear me
how you men argue! I am sure I never can make out what you are talking about. Oh! Harry, I am quite vexed with you. Why do you try to persuade our nice Mr. Dorian Gray to give up the East End? I assure you he would be quite invaluable. They would love his playing
I want him to play to me
But they are so unhappy in Whitechapel
I can sympathize with everything except suffering
I cannot sympathize with that. It is too ugly, too horrible, too distressing. There is something terribly morbid in the modern sympathy with pain. One should sympathize with the colour, the beauty, the joy of life. The less said about life's sores, the better
Still, the East End is a very important problem
Quite so
It is the problem of slavery, and we try to solve it by amusing the slaves
What change do you propose, then
I don't desire to change anything in England except the weather
I am quite content with philosophic contemplation. But, as the nineteenth century has gone bankrupt through an over-expenditure of sympathy, I would suggest that we should appeal to science to put us straight. The advantage of the emotions is that they lead us astray, and the advantage of science is that it is not emotional
But we have such grave responsibilities
Terribly grave
Humanity takes itself too seriously. It is the world's original sin. If the caveman had known how to laugh, history would have been different
You are really very comforting
I have always felt rather guilty when I came to see your dear aunt, for I take no interest at all in the East End. For the future I shall be able to look her in the face without a blush
A blush is very becoming, Duchess
Only when one is young
When an old woman like myself blushes, it is a very bad sign. Ah! Lord Henry, I wish you would tell me how to become young again
Can you remember any great error that you committed in your early days, Duchess
A great many, I fear
Then commit them over again
To get back one's youth, one has merely to repeat one's follies
A delightful theory
I must put it into practice
A dangerous theory
Yes
that is one of the great secrets of life. Nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistakes
How annoying
I must go. I have to call for my husband at the club, to take him to some absurd meeting at Willis's Rooms, where he is going to be in the chair. If I am late he is sure to be furious, and I couldn't have a scene in this bonnet. It is far too fragile. A harsh word would ruin it. No, I must go, dear Agatha. Good-bye, Lord Henry, you are quite delightful and dreadfully demoralizing. I am sure I don't know what to say about your views. You must come and dine with us some night. Tuesday? Are you disengaged Tuesday
For you I would throw over anybody, Duchess
Ah! that is very nice, and very wrong of you
You talk books away
why don't you write one
I am too fond of reading books to care to write them, Mr. Erskine. I should like to write a novel certainly, a novel that would be as lovely as a Persian carpet and as unreal. But there is no literary public in England for anything except newspapers, primers, and encyclopaedias. Of all people in the world the English have the least sense of the beauty of literature
I fear you are right
I myself used to have literary ambitions, but I gave them up long ago. And now, my dear young friend, if you will allow me to call you so, may I ask if you really meant all that you said to us at lunch
I quite forget what I said
Was it all very bad
Very bad indeed. In fact I consider you extremely dangerous, and if anything happens to our good duchess, we shall all look on you as being primarily responsible. But I should like to talk to you about life. The generation into which I was born was tedious. Some day, when you are tired of London, come down to Treadley and expound to me your philosophy of pleasure over some admirable Burgundy I am fortunate enough to possess
I shall be charmed. A visit to Treadley would be a great privilege. It has a perfect host, and a perfect library
You will complete it
And now I must bid good-bye to your excellent aunt. I am due at the Athenaeum. It is the hour when we sleep there
All of you, Mr. Erskine
Forty of us, in forty arm-chairs. We are practising for an English Academy of Letters
I am going to the park
Let me come with you
But I thought you had promised Basil Hallward to go and see him
I would sooner come with you; yes, I feel I must come with you. Do let me. And you will promise to talk to me all the time? No one talks so wonderfully as you do
Ah! I have talked quite enough for to-day
All I want now is to look at life. You may come and look at it with me, if you care to
How late you are, Harry
I am afraid it is not Harry, Mr. Gray
I beg your pardon. I thought
You thought it was my husband. It is only his wife. You must let me introduce myself. I know you quite well by your photographs. I think my husband has got seventeen of them
Not seventeen, Lady Henry
Well, eighteen, then. And I saw you with him the other night at the opera
That was at Lohengrin, Lady Henry, I think
Yes; it was at dear Lohengrin. I like Wagner's music better than anybody's. It is so loud that one can talk the whole time without other people hearing what one says. That is a great advantage, don't you think so, Mr. Gray
I am afraid I don't think so, Lady Henry. I never talk during music -- at least, during good music. If one hears bad music, it is one's duty to drown it in conversation
Ah! that is one of Harry's views, isn't it, Mr. Gray? I always hear Harry's views from his friends. It is the only way I get to know of them. But you must not think I don't like good music. I adore it, but I am afraid of it. It makes me too romantic. I have simply worshipped pianists -- two at a time, sometimes, Harry tells me. I don't know what it is about them. Perhaps it is that they are foreigners. They all are, ain't they? Even those that are born in England become foreigners after a time, don't they? It is so clever of them, and such a compliment to art. Makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn't it? You have never been to any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray? You must come. I can't afford orchids, but I share no expense in foreigners. They make one's rooms look so picturesque. But here is Harry! Harry, I came in to look for you, to ask you something -- I forget what it was -- and I found Mr. Gray here. We have had such a pleasant chat about music. We have quite the same ideas. No; I think our ideas are quite different. But he has been most pleasant. I am so glad I've seen him
I am charmed, my love, quite charmed
So sorry I am late, Dorian. I went to look after a piece of old brocade in Wardour Street and had to bargain for hours for it. Nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing
I am afraid I must be going
I have promised to drive with the duchess. Good-bye, Mr. Gray. Good-bye, Harry. You are dining out, I suppose? So am I. Perhaps I shall see you at Lady Thornbury's
I dare say, my dear
Never marry a woman with straw-coloured hair, Dorian
Why, Harry
Because they are so sentimental
But I like sentimental people
Never marry at all, Dorian. Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed
I don't think I am likely to marry, Harry. I am too much in love. That is one of your aphorisms. I am putting it into practice, as I do everything that you say
Who are you in love with
With an actress
That is a rather commonplace debut
You would not say so if you saw her, Harry
Who is she
Her name is Sibyl Vane
Never heard of her
No one has. People will some day, however. She is a genius
My dear boy, no woman is a genius. Women are a decorative sex. They never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly. Women represent the triumph of matter over mind, just as men represent the triumph of mind over morals
Harry, how can you
My dear Dorian, it is quite true. I am analysing women at present, so I ought to know. The subject is not so abstruse as I thought it was. I find that, ultimately, there are only two kinds of women, the plain and the coloured. The plain women are very useful. If you want to gain a reputation for respectability, you have merely to take them down to supper. The other women are very charming. They commit one mistake, however. They paint in order to try and look young. Our grandmothers painted in order to try and talk brilliantly. Rouge and esprit used to go together. That is all over now. As long as a woman can look ten years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied. As for conversation, there are only five women in London worth talking to, and two of these can't be admitted into decent society. However, tell me about your genius. How long have you known her
Ah! Harry, your views terrify me
Never mind that. How long have you known her
About three weeks
And where did you come across her
I will tell you, Harry, but you mustn't be unsympathetic about it. After all, it never would have happened if I had not met you. You filled me with a wild desire to know everything about life. For days after I met you, something seemed to throb in my veins. As I lounged in the park, or strolled down Piccadilly, I used to look at every one who passed me and wonder, with a mad curiosity, what sort of lives they led. Some of them fascinated me. Others filled me with terror. There was an exquisite poison in the air. I had a passion for sensations. . . . Well, one evening about seven o'clock, I determined to go out in search of some adventure. I felt that this grey monstrous London of ours, with its myriads of people, its sordid sinners, and its splendid sins, as you once phrased it, must have something in store for me. I fancied a thousand things. The mere danger gave me a sense of delight. I remembered what you had said to me on that wonderful evening when we first dined together, about the search for beauty being the real secret of life. I don't know what I expected, but I went out and wandered eastward, soon losing my way in a labyrinth of grimy streets and black grassless squares. About half-past eight I passed by an absurd little theatre, with great flaring gas-jets and gaudy play-bills. A hideous Jew, in the most amazing waistcoat I ever beheld in my life, was standing at the entrance, smoking a vile cigar. He had greasy ringlets, and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a soiled shirt. 'Have a box, my Lord?' he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an air of gorgeous servility. There was something about him, Harry, that amused me. He was such a monster. You will laugh at me, I know, but I really went in and paid a whole guinea for the stage-box. To the present day I can't make out why I did so; and yet if I hadn't -- my dear Harry, if I hadn't -- I should have missed the greatest romance of my life. I see you are laughing. It is horrid of you
I am not laughing, Dorian; at least I am not laughing at you. But you should not say the greatest romance of your life. You should say the first romance of your life. You will always be loved, and you will always be in love with love. A grande passion is the privilege of people who have nothing to do. That is the one use of the idle classes of a country. Don't be afraid. There are exquisite things in store for you. This is merely the beginning
Do you think my nature so shallow
No; I think your nature so deep
How do you mean
My dear boy, the people who love only once in their lives are really the shallow people. What they call their loyalty, and their fidelity, I call either the lethargy of custom or their lack of imagination. Faithfulness is to the emotional life what consistency is to the life of the intellect -- simply a confession of failure. Faithfulness! I must analyse it some day. The passion for property is in it. There are many things that we would throw away if we were not afraid that others might pick them up. But I don't want to interrupt you. Go on with your story
Well, I found myself seated in a horrid little private box, with a vulgar drop-scene staring me in the face. I looked out from behind the curtain and surveyed the house. It was a tawdry affair, all Cupids and cornucopias, like a third-rate wedding-cake. The gallery and pit were fairly full, but the two rows of dingy stalls were quite empty, and there was hardly a person in what I suppose they called the dress-circle. Women went about with oranges and ginger-beer, and there was a terrible consumption of nuts going on
It must have been just like the palmy days of the British drama
Just like, I should fancy, and very depressing. I began to wonder what on earth I should do when I caught sight of the play-bill. What do you think the play was, Harry
I should think 'The Idiot Boy', or 'Dumb but Innocent'. Our fathers used to like that sort of piece, I believe. The longer I live, Dorian, the more keenly I feel that whatever was good enough for our fathers is not good enough for us. In art, as in politics, les grandperes ont toujours tort
This play was good enough for us, Harry. It was Romeo and Juliet. I must admit that I was rather annoyed at the idea of seeing Shakespeare done in such a wretched hole of a place. Still, I felt interested, in a sort of way. At any rate, I determined to wait for the first act. There was a dreadful orchestra, presided over by a young Hebrew who sat at a cracked piano, that nearly drove me away, but at last the drop-scene was drawn up and the play began. Romeo was a stout elderly gentleman, with corked eyebrows, a husky tragedy voice, and a figure like a beer-barrel. Mercutio was almost as bad. He was played by the low-comedian, who had introduced gags of his own and was on most friendly terms with the pit. They were both as grotesque as the scenery, and that looked as if it had come out of a country-booth. But Juliet! Harry, imagine a girl, hardly seventeen years of age, with a little, flowerlike face, a small Greek head with plaited coils of dark-brown hair, eyes that were violet wells of passion, lips that were like the petals of a rose. She was the loveliest thing I had ever seen in my life. You said to me once that pathos left you unmoved, but that beauty, mere beauty, could fill your eyes with tears. I tell you, Harry, I could hardly see this girl for the mist of tears that came across me. And her voice -- I never heard such a voice. It was very low at first, with deep mellow notes that seemed to fall singly upon one's ear. Then it became a little louder, and sounded like a flute or a distant hautboy. In the garden-scene it had all the tremulous ecstasy that one hears just before dawn when nightingales are singing. There were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of violins. You know how a voice can stir one. Your voice and the voice of Sibyl Vane are two things that I shall never forget. When I close my eyes, I hear them, and each of them says something different. I don't know which to follow. Why should I not love her? Harry, I do love her. She is everything to me in life. Night after night I go to see her play. One evening she is Rosalind, and the next evening she is Imogen. I have seen her die in the gloom of an Italian tomb, sucking the poison from her lover's lips. I have watched her wandering through the forest of Arden, disguised as a pretty boy in hose and doublet and dainty cap. She has been mad, and has come into the presence of a guilty king, and given him rue to wear and bitter herbs to taste of. She has been innocent, and the black hands of jealousy have crushed her reedlike throat. I have seen her in every age and in every costume. Ordinary women never appeal to one's imagination. They are limited to their century. No glamour ever transfigures them. One knows their minds as easily as one knows their bonnets. One can always find them. There is no mystery in any of them. They ride in the park in the morning and chatter at tea-parties in the afternoon. They have their stereotyped smile and their fashionable manner. They are quite obvious. But an actress! How different an actress is! Harry! why didn't you tell me that the only thing worth loving is an actress
Because I have loved so many of them, Dorian
Oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces
Don't run down dyed hair and painted faces. There is an extraordinary charm in them, sometimes
I wish now I had not told you about Sibyl Vane
You could not have helped telling me, Dorian. All through your life you will tell me everything you do
Yes, Harry, I believe that is true. I cannot help telling you things. You have a curious influence over me. If I ever did a crime, I would come and confess it to you. You would understand me
People like you -- the wilful sunbeams of life -- don't commit crimes, Dorian. But I am much obliged for the compliment, all the same. And now tell me -- reach me the matches, like a good boy -- thanks -- what are your actual relations with Sibyl Vane
Harry! Sibyl Vane is sacred
It is only the sacred things that are worth touching, Dorian
But why should you be annoyed? I suppose she will belong to you some day. When one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one's self, and one always ends by deceiving others. That is what the world calls a romance. You know her, at any rate, I suppose
Of course I know her. On the first night I was at the theatre, the horrid old Jew came round to the box after the performance was over and offered to take me behind the scenes and introduce me to her. I was furious with him, and told him that Juliet had been dead for hundreds of years and that her body was lying in a marble tomb in Verona. I think, from his blank look of amazement, that he was under the impression that I had taken too much champagne, or something
I am not surprised
Then he asked me if I wrote for any of the newspapers. I told him I never even read them. He seemed terribly disappointed at that, and confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a conspiracy against him, and that they were every one of them to be bought
I should not wonder if he was quite right there. But, on the other hand, judging from their appearance, most of them cannot be at all expensive
Well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means
By this time, however, the lights were being put out in the theatre, and I had to go. He wanted me to try some cigars that he strongly recommended. I declined. The next night, of course, I arrived at the place again. When he saw me, he made me a low bow and assured me that I was a munificent patron of art. He was a most offensive brute, though he had an extraordinary passion for Shakespeare. He told me once, with an air of pride, that his five bankruptcies were entirely due to 'The Bard,' as he insisted on calling him. He seemed to think it a distinction
It was a distinction, my dear Dorian -- a great distinction. Most people become bankrupt through having invested too heavily in the prose of life. To have ruined one's self over poetry is an honour. But when did you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane
The third night. She had been playing Rosalind. I could not help going round. I had thrown her some flowers, and she had looked at me -- at least I fancied that she had. The old Jew was persistent. He seemed determined to take me behind, so I consented. It was curious my not wanting to know her, wasn't it
No; I don't think so
My dear Harry, why
I will tell you some other time. Now I want to know about the girl
Sibyl? Oh, she was so shy and so gentle. There is something of a child about her. Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I told her what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of her power. I think we were both rather nervous. The old Jew stood grinning at the doorway of the dusty greenroom, making elaborate speeches about us both, while we stood looking at each other like children. He would insist on calling me 'My Lord,' so I had to assure Sibyl that I was not anything of the kind. She said quite simply to me, 'You look more like a prince. I must call you Prince Charming
Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments
You don't understand her, Harry. She regarded me merely as a person in a play. She knows nothing of life. She lives with her mother, a faded tired woman who played Lady Capulet in a sort of magenta dressing-wrapper on the first night, and looks as if she had seen better days
I know that look. It depresses me
The Jew wanted to tell me her history, but I said it did not interest me
You were quite right. There is always something infinitely mean about other people's tragedies
Sibyl is the only thing I care about. What is it to me where she came from? From her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and entirely divine. Every night of my life I go to see her act, and every night she is more marvellous
That is the reason, I suppose, that you never dine with me now. I thought you must have some curious romance on hand. You have; but it is not quite what I expected
My dear Harry, we either lunch or sup together every day, and I have been to the opera with you several times
You always come dreadfully late
Well, I can't help going to see Sibyl play
even if it is only for a single act. I get hungry for her presence; and when I think of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I am filled with awe
You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can't you
To-night she is Imogen
and to-morrow night she will be Juliet
When is she Sibyl Vane
Never
I congratulate you
How horrid you are! She is all the great heroines of the world in one. She is more than an individual. You laugh, but I tell you she has genius. I love her, and I must make her love me. You, who know all the secrets of life, tell me how to charm Sibyl Vane to love me! I want to make Romeo jealous. I want the dead lovers of the world to hear our laughter and grow sad. I want a breath of our passion to stir their dust into consciousness, to wake their ashes into pain. My God, Harry, how I worship her
And what do you propose to do
I want you and Basil to come with me some night and see her act. I have not the slightest fear of the result. You are certain to acknowledge her genius. Then we must get her out of the Jew's hands. She is bound to him for three years -- at least for two years and eight months -- from the present time. I shall have to pay him something, of course. When all that is settled, I shall take a West End theatre and bring her out properly. She will make the world as mad as she has made me
That would be impossible, my dear boy
Yes, she will. She has not merely art, consummate art-instinct, in her, but she has personality also; and you have often told me that it is personalities, not principles, that move the age
Well, what night shall we go
Let me see. To-day is Tuesday. Let us fix to-morrow. She plays Juliet to-morrow
All right. The Bristol at eight o'clock; and I will get Basil
Not eight, Harry, please. Half-past six. We must be there before the curtain rises. You must see her in the first act, where she meets Romeo
Half-past six! What an hour! It will be like having a meat-tea, or reading an English novel. It must be seven. No gentleman dines before seven. Shall you see Basil between this and then? Or shall I write to him
Dear Basil! I have not laid eyes on him for a week. It is rather horrid of me, as he has sent me my portrait in the most wonderful frame, specially designed by himself, and, though I am a little jealous of the picture for being a whole month younger than I am, I must admit that I delight in it. Perhaps you had better write to him. I don't want to see him alone. He says things that annoy me. He gives me good advice
People are very fond of giving away what they need most themselves. It is what I call the depth of generosity
Oh, Basil is the best of fellows, but he seems to me to be just a bit of a Philistine. Since I have known you, Harry, I have discovered that
Basil, my dear boy, puts everything that is charming in him into his work. The consequence is that he has nothing left for life but his prejudices, his principles, and his common sense. The only artists I have ever known who are personally delightful are bad artists. Good artists exist simply in what they make, and consequently are perfectly uninteresting in what they are. A great poet, a really great poet, is the most unpoetical of all creatures. But inferior poets are absolutely fascinating. The worse their rhymes are, the more picturesque they look. The mere fact of having published a book of second-rate sonnets makes a man quite irresistible. He lives the poetry that he cannot write. The others write the poetry that they dare not realize
I wonder is that really so, Harry
It must be, if you say it. And now I am off. Imogen is waiting for me. Don't forget about to-morrow. Good-bye
Mother, Mother, I am so happy
I am so happy
and you must be happy, too
Happy
I am only happy, Sibyl, when I see you act. You must not think of anything but your acting. Mr. Isaacs has been very good to us, and we owe him money
Money, Mother
what does money matter? Love is more than money
Mr. Isaacs has advanced us fifty pounds to pay off our debts and to get a proper outfit for James. You must not forget that, Sibyl. Fifty pounds is a very large sum. Mr. Isaacs has been most considerate
He is not a gentleman, Mother, and I hate the way he talks to me
I don't know how we could manage without him
We don't want him any more, Mother. Prince Charming rules life for us now
I love him
Foolish child! foolish child
Mother, Mother
why does he love me so much? I know why I love him. I love him because he is like what love himself should be. But what does he see in me? I am not worthy of him. And yet -- why, I cannot tell -- though I feel so much beneath him, I don't feel humble. I feel proud, terribly proud. Mother, did you love my father as I love Prince Charming
Forgive me, Mother. I know it pains you to talk about our father. But it only pains you because you loved him so much. Don't look so sad. I am as happy to-day as you were twenty years ago. Ah! let me be happy for ever
My child, you are far too young to think of falling in love. Besides, what do you know of this young man? You don't even know his name. The whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when James is going away to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I must say that you should have shown more consideration. However, as I said before, if he is rich "Ah! Mother, Mother, let me be happy
You might keep some of your kisses for me, Sibyl, I think
Ah! but you don't like being kissed, Jim
You are a dreadful old bear
I want you to come out with me for a walk, Sibyl. I don't suppose I shall ever see this horrid London again. I am sure I don't want to
My son, don't say such dreadful things
Why not, Mother? I mean it
You pain me, my son. I trust you will return from Australia in a position of affluence. I believe there is no society of any kind in the Colonies -- nothing that I would call society -- so when you have made your fortune, you must come back and assert yourself in London
Society
I don't want to know anything about that. I should like to make some money to take you and Sibyl off the stage. I hate it
Oh, Jim
how unkind of you! But are you really going for a walk with me? That will be nice! I was afraid you were going to say good-bye to some of your friends -- to Tom Hardy, who gave you that hideous pipe, or Ned Langton, who makes fun of you for smoking it. It is very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon. Where shall we go? Let us go to the park
I am too shabby
Only swell people go to the park
Nonsense, Jim
Very well
but don't be too long dressing
Mother, are my things ready
Quite ready, James
I hope you will be contented, James, with your sea-faring life
You must remember that it is your own choice. You might have entered a solicitor's office. Solicitors are a very respectable class, and in the country often dine with the best families
I hate offices, and I hate clerks
But you are quite right. I have chosen my own life. All I say is, watch over Sibyl. Don't let her come to any harm. Mother, you must watch over her
James, you really talk very strangely. Of course I watch over Sibyl
I hear a gentleman comes every night to the theatre and goes behind to talk to her. Is that right? What about that
You are speaking about things you don't understand, James. In the profession we are accustomed to receive a great deal of most gratifying attention. I myself used to receive many bouquets at one time. That was when acting was really understood. As for Sibyl, I do not know at present whether her attachment is serious or not. But there is no doubt that the young man in question is a perfect gentleman. He is always most polite to me. Besides, he has the appearance of being rich, and the flowers he sends are lovely
You don't know his name, though
No
He has not yet revealed his real name. I think it is quite romantic of him. He is probably a member of the aristocracy
Watch over Sibyl, Mother
watch over her
My son, you distress me very much. Sibyl is always under my special care. Of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why she should not contract an alliance with him. I trust he is one of the aristocracy. He has all the appearance of it, I must say. It might be a most brilliant marriage for Sibyl. They would make a charming couple. His good looks are really quite remarkable; everybody notices them
How serious you both are
What is the matter
Nothing
I suppose one must be serious sometimes. Good-bye, Mother; I will have my dinner at five o'clock. Everything is packed, except my shirts, so you need not trouble
Good-bye, my son
Kiss me, Mother
My child! my child
Come, Sibyl
You are not listening to a word I am saying, Jim
and I am making the most delightful plans for your future. Do say something
What do you want me to say
Oh! that you will be a good boy and not forget us
You are more likely to forget me than I am to forget you, Sibyl
What do you mean, Jim
You have a new friend, I hear. Who is he? Why have you not told me about him? He means you no good
Stop, Jim
You must not say anything against him. I love him
Why, you don't even know his name
Who is he? I have a right to know
He is called Prince Charming. Don't you like the name. Oh! you silly boy! you should never forget it. If you only saw him, you would think him the most wonderful person in the world. Some day you will meet him -- when you come back from Australia. You will like him so much. Everybody likes him, and I ... love him. I wish you could come to the theatre to-night. He is going to be there, and I am to play Juliet. Oh! how I shall play it! Fancy, Jim, to be in love and play Juliet! To have him sitting there! To play for his delight! I am afraid I may frighten the company, frighten or enthrall them. To be in love is to surpass one's self. Poor dreadful Mr. Isaacs will be shouting 'genius' to his loafers at the bar. He has preached me as a dogma; to-night he will announce me as a revelation. I feel it. And it is all his, his only, Prince Charming, my wonderful lover, my god of graces. But I am poor beside him. Poor? What does that matter? When poverty creeps in at the door, love flies in through the window. Our proverbs want rewriting. They were made in winter, and it is summer now; spring-time for me, I think, a very dance of blossoms in blue skies
He is a gentleman
A prince
What more do you want
He wants to enslave you
I shudder at the thought of being free
I want you to beware of him
To see him is to worship him; to know him is to trust him
Sibyl, you are mad about him
You dear old Jim, you talk as if you were a hundred. Some day you will be in love yourself. Then you will know what it is. Don't look so sulky. Surely you should be glad to think that, though you are going away, you leave me happier than I have ever been before. Life has been hard for us both, terribly hard and difficult. But it will be different now. You are going to a new world, and I have found one. Here are two chairs; let us sit down and see the smart people go by
There he is
Who
Prince Charming
Show him to me. Which is he? Point him out. I must see him
He is gone
I wish you had seen him
I wish I had, for as sure as there is a God in heaven, if he ever does you any wrong, I shall kill him
Come away, Jim; come away
You are foolish, Jim, utterly foolish; a bad-tempered boy, that is all. How can you say such horrible things? You don't know what you are talking about. You are simply jealous and unkind. Ah! I wish you would fall in love. Love makes people good, and what you said was wicked
I am sixteen
and I know what I am about. Mother is no help to you. She doesn't understand how to look after you. I wish now that I was not going to Australia at all. I have a great mind to chuck the whole thing up. I would, if my articles hadn't been signed
Oh, don't be so serious, Jim. You are like one of the heroes of those silly melodramas Mother used to be so fond of acting in. I am not going to quarrel with you. I have seen him, and oh! to see him is perfect happiness. We won't quarrel. I know you would never harm any one I love, would you
Not as long as you love him, I suppose
I shall love him for ever
And he
For ever, too
He had better
Mother, I have something to ask you
Tell me the truth. I have a right to know. Were you married to my father
No
My father was a scoundrel then
I knew he was not free. We loved each other very much. If he had lived, he would have made provision for us. Don't speak against him, my son. He was your father, and a gentleman. Indeed, he was highly connected
I don't care for myself
but don't let Sibyl. . . . It is a gentleman, isn't it, who is in love with her, or says he is? Highly connected, too, I suppose
Sibyl has a mother
I had none
I am sorry if I have pained you by asking about my father
but I could not help it. I must go now. Good-bye. Don't forget that you will have only one child now to look after, and believe me that if this man wrongs my sister, I will find out who he is, track him down, and kill him like a dog. I swear it
I suppose you have heard the news, Basil
No, Harry
What is it? Nothing about politics, I hope! They don't interest me. There is hardly a single person in the House of Commons worth painting, though many of them would be the better for a little whitewashing
Dorian Gray is engaged to be married
Dorian engaged to be married
Impossible
It is perfectly true
To whom
To some little actress or other
I can't believe it. Dorian is far too sensible
Dorian is far too wise not to do foolish things now and then, my dear Basil
Marriage is hardly a thing that one can do now and then, Harry
Except in America
But I didn't say he was married. I said he was engaged to be married. There is a great difference. I have a distinct remembrance of being married, but I have no recollection at all of being engaged. I am inclined to think that I never was engaged
But think of Dorian's birth, and position, and wealth. It would be absurd for him to marry so much beneath him
If you want to make him marry this girl, tell him that, Basil. He is sure to do it, then. Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it is always from the noblest motives
I hope the girl is good, Harry. I don't want to see Dorian tied to some vile creature, who might degrade his nature and ruin his intellect
Oh, she is better than good -- she is beautiful
Dorian says she is beautiful, and he is not often wrong about things of that kind. Your portrait of him has quickened his appreciation of the personal appearance of other people. It has had that excellent effect, amongst others. We are to see her to-night, if that boy doesn't forget his appointment
Are you serious
Quite serious, Basil. I should be miserable if I thought I should ever be more serious than I am at the present moment
But do you approve of it, Harry
You can't approve of it, possibly. It is some silly infatuation
I never approve, or disapprove, of anything now. It is an absurd attitude to take towards life. We are not sent into the world to air our moral prejudices. I never take any notice of what common people say, and I never interfere with what charming people do. If a personality fascinates me, whatever mode of expression that personality selects is absolutely delightful to me. Dorian Gray falls in love with a beautiful girl who acts Juliet, and proposes to marry her. Why not? If he wedded Messalina, he would be none the less interesting. You know I am not a champion of marriage. The real drawback to marriage is that it makes one unselfish. And unselfish people are colourless. They lack individuality. Still, there are certain temperaments that marriage makes more complex. They retain their egotism, and add to it many other egos. They are forced to have more than one life. They become more highly organized, and to be highly organized is, I should fancy, the object of man's existence. Besides, every experience is of value, and whatever one may say against marriage, it is certainly an experience. I hope that Dorian Gray will make this girl his wife, passionately adore her for six months, and then suddenly become fascinated by some one else. He would be a wonderful study
You don't mean a single word of all that, Harry; you know you don't. If Dorian Gray's life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier than yourself. You are much better than you pretend to be
The reason we all like to think so well of others is that we are all afraid for ourselves. The basis of optimism is sheer terror. We think that we are generous because we credit our neighbour with the possession of those virtues that are likely to be a benefit to us. We praise the banker that we may overdraw our account, and find good qualities in the highwayman in the hope that he may spare our pockets. I mean everything that I have said. I have the greatest contempt for optimism. As for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but one whose growth is arrested. If you want to mar a nature, you have merely to reform it. As for marriage, of course that would be silly, but there are other and more interesting bonds between men and women. I will certainly encourage them. They have the charm of being fashionable. But here is Dorian himself. He will tell you more than I can
My dear Harry, my dear Basil, you must both congratulate me
I have never been so happy. Of course, it is sudden -- all really delightful things are. And yet it seems to me to be the one thing I have been looking for all my life
I hope you will always be very happy, Dorian
but I don't quite forgive you for not having let me know of your engagement. You let Harry know
And I don't forgive you for being late for dinner
Come, let us sit down and try what the new chef here is like, and then you will tell us how it all came about
There is really not much to tell
What happened was simply this. After I left you yesterday evening, Harry, I dressed, had some dinner at that little Italian restaurant in Rupert Street you introduced me to, and went down at eight o'clock to the theatre. Sibyl was playing Rosalind. Of course, the scenery was dreadful and the Orlando absurd. But Sibyl! You should have seen her! When she came on in her boy's clothes, she was perfectly wonderful. She wore a moss-coloured velvet jerkin with cinnamon sleeves, slim, brown, cross-gartered hose, a dainty little green cap with a hawk's feather caught in a jewel, and a hooded cloak lined with dull red. She had never seemed to me more exquisite. She had all the delicate grace of that Tanagra figurine that you have in your studio, Basil. Her hair clustered round her face like dark leaves round a pale rose. As for her acting -- well, you shall see her to-night. She is simply a born artist. I sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled. I forgot that I was in London and in the nineteenth century. I was away with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen. After the performance was over, I went behind and spoke to her. As we were sitting together, suddenly there came into her eyes a look that I had never seen there before. My lips moved towards hers. We kissed each other. I can't describe to you what I felt at that moment. It seemed to me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect point of rose-coloured joy. She trembled all over and shook like a white narcissus. Then she flung herself on her knees and kissed my hands. I feel that I should not tell you all this, but I can't help it. Of course, our engagement is a dead secret. She has not even told her own mother. I don't know what my guardians will say. Lord Radley is sure to be furious. I don't care. I shall be of age in less than a year, and then I can do what I like. I have been right, Basil, haven't I, to take my love out of poetry and to find my wife in Shakespeare's plays? Lips that Shakespeare taught to speak have whispered their secret in my ear. I have had the arms of Rosalind around me, and kissed Juliet on the mouth
Yes, Dorian, I suppose you were right
Have you seen her to-day
I left her in the forest of Arden; I shall find her in an orchard in Verona
At what particular point did you mention the word marriage, Dorian? And what did she say in answer? Perhaps you forgot all about it
My dear Harry, I did not treat it as a business transaction, and I did not make any formal proposal. I told her that I loved her, and she said she was not worthy to be my wife. Not worthy! Why, the whole world is nothing to me compared with her
Women are wonderfully practical
much more practical than we are. In situations of that kind we often forget to say anything about marriage, and they always remind us
Don't, Harry. You have annoyed Dorian. He is not like other men. He would never bring misery upon any one. His nature is too fine for that
Dorian is never annoyed with me
I asked the question for the best reason possible, for the only reason, indeed, that excuses one for asking any question -- simple curiosity. I have a theory that it is always the women who propose to us, and not we who propose to the women. Except, of course, in middle-class life. But then the middle classes are not modern
You are quite incorrigible, Harry; but I don't mind. It is impossible to be angry with you. When you see Sibyl Vane, you will feel that the man who could wrong her would be a beast, a beast without a heart. I cannot understand how any one can wish to shame the thing he loves. I love Sibyl Vane. I want to place her on a pedestal of gold and to see the world worship the woman who is mine. What is marriage? An irrevocable vow. You mock at it for that. Ah! don't mock. It is an irrevocable vow that I want to take. Her trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good. When I am with her, I regret all that you have taught me. I become different from what you have known me to be. I am changed, and the mere touch of Sibyl Vane's hand makes me forget you and all your wrong, fascinating, poisonous, delightful theories
And those are
Oh, your theories about life, your theories about love, your theories about pleasure. All your theories, in fact, Harry
Pleasure is the only thing worth having a theory about
But I am afraid I cannot claim my theory as my own. It belongs to Nature, not to me. Pleasure is Nature's test, her sign of approval. When we are happy, we are always good, but when we are good, we are not always happy
Ah! but what do you mean by good
Yes
what do you mean by good, Harry
To be good is to be in harmony with one's self
Discord is to be forced to be in harmony with others. One's own life -- that is the important thing. As for the lives of one's neighbours, if one wishes to be a prig or a Puritan, one can flaunt one's moral views about them, but they are not one's concern. Besides, individualism has really the higher aim. Modern morality consists in accepting the standard of one's age. I consider that for any man of culture to accept the standard of his age is a form of the grossest immorality
But, surely, if one lives merely for one's self, Harry, one pays a terrible price for doing so
Yes, we are overcharged for everything nowadays. I should fancy that the real tragedy of the poor is that they can afford nothing but self-denial. Beautiful sins, like beautiful things, are the privilege of the rich
One has to pay in other ways but money
What sort of ways, Basil
Oh! I should fancy in remorse, in suffering, in . . . well, in the consciousness of degradation
My dear fellow, mediaeval art is charming, but mediaeval emotions are out of date. One can use them in fiction, of course. But then the only things that one can use in fiction are the things that one has ceased to use in fact. Believe me, no civilized man ever regrets a pleasure, and no uncivilized man ever knows what a pleasure is
I know what pleasure is
It is to adore some one
That is certainly better than being adored
Being adored is a nuisance. Women treat us just as humanity treats its gods. They worship us, and are always bothering us to do something for them
I should have said that whatever they ask for they had first given to us
They create love in our natures. They have a right to demand it back
That is quite true, Dorian
Nothing is ever quite true
This is
You must admit, Harry, that women give to men the very gold of their lives
Possibly
but they invariably want it back in such very small change. That is the worry. Women, as some witty Frenchman once put it, inspire us with the desire to do masterpieces and always prevent us from carrying them out
Harry, you are dreadful! I don't know why I like you so much
You will always like me, Dorian
Will you have some coffee, you fellows? Waiter, bring coffee, and fine-champagne, and some cigarettes. No, don't mind the cigarettes -- I have some. Basil, I can't allow you to smoke cigars. You must have a cigarette. A cigarette is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and it leaves one unsatisfied. What more can one want? Yes, Dorian, you will always be fond of me. I represent to you all the sins you have never had the courage to commit
What nonsense you talk, Harry
Let us go down to the theatre. When Sibyl comes on the stage you will have a new ideal of life. She will represent something to you that you have never known
I have known everything
but I am always ready for a new emotion. I am afraid, however, that, for me at any rate, there is no such thing. Still, your wonderful girl may thrill me. I love acting. It is so much more real than life. Let us go. Dorian, you will come with me. I am so sorry, Basil, but there is only room for two in the brougham. You must follow us in a hansom
What a place to find one's divinity in
Yes
It was here I found her, and she is divine beyond all living things. When she acts, you will forget everything. These common rough people, with their coarse faces and brutal gestures, become quite different when she is on the stage. They sit silently and watch her. They weep and laugh as she wills them to do. She makes them as responsive as a violin. She spiritualizes them, and one feels that they are of the same flesh and blood as one's self
The same flesh and blood as one's self! Oh, I hope not
Don't pay any attention to him, Dorian
I understand what you mean, and I believe in this girl. Any one you love must be marvellous, and any girl who has the effect you describe must be fine and noble. To spiritualize one's age -- that is something worth doing. If this girl can give a soul to those who have lived without one, if she can create the sense of beauty in people whose lives have been sordid and ugly, if she can strip them of their selfishness and lend them tears for sorrows that are not their own, she is worthy of all your adoration, worthy of the adoration of the world. This marriage is quite right. I did not think so at first, but I admit it now. The gods made Sibyl Vane for you. Without her you would have been incomplete
Thanks, Basil
I knew that you would understand me. Harry is so cynical, he terrifies me. But here is the orchestra. It is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about five minutes. Then the curtain rises, and you will see the girl to whom I am going to give all my life, to whom I have given everything that is good in me
Charming! charming
It lightens
She is quite beautiful, Dorian
but she can't act. Let us go
I am going to see the play through
I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste an evening, Harry. I apologize to you both
My dear Dorian, I should think Miss Vane was ill
We will come some other night
I wish she were ill
But she seems to me to be simply callous and cold. She has entirely altered. Last night she was a great artist. This evening she is merely a commonplace mediocre actress
Don't talk like that about any one you love, Dorian. Love is a more wonderful thing than art
They are both simply forms of imitation
But do let us go. Dorian, you must not stay here any longer. It is not good for one's morals to see bad acting. Besides, I don't suppose you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a wooden doll? She is very lovely, and if she knows as little about life as she does about acting, she will be a delightful experience. There are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating -- people who know absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing. Good heavens, my dear boy, don't look so tragic! The secret of remaining young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming. Come to the club with Basil and myself. We will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty of Sibyl Vane. She is beautiful. What more can you want
Go away, Harry
I want to be alone. Basil, you must go. Ah! can't you see that my heart is breaking
Let us go, Basil
How badly I acted to-night, Dorian
Horribly
Horribly! It was dreadful. Are you ill? You have no idea what it was. You have no idea what I suffered
Dorian
Dorian, you should have understood. But you understand now, don't you
Understand what
Why I was so bad to-night. Why I shall always be bad. Why I shall never act well again
You are ill, I suppose. When you are ill you shouldn't act. You make yourself ridiculous. My friends were bored. I was bored
Dorian, Dorian
before I knew you, acting was the one reality of my life. It was only in the theatre that I lived. I thought that it was all true. I was Rosalind one night and Portia the other. The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of Cordelia were mine also. I believed in everything. The common people who acted with me seemed to me to be godlike. The painted scenes were my world. I knew nothing but shadows, and I thought them real. You came -- oh, my beautiful love!-- and you freed my soul from prison. You taught me what reality really is. To-night, for the first time in my life, I saw through the hollowness, the sham, the silliness of the empty pageant in which I had always played. To-night, for the first time, I became conscious that the Romeo was hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in the orchard was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words I had to speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what I wanted to say. You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is but a reflection. You had made me understand what love really is. My love! My love! Prince Charming! Prince of life! I have grown sick of shadows. You are more to me than all art can ever be. What have I to do with the puppets of a play? When I came on to-night, I could not understand how it was that everything had gone from me. I thought that I was going to be wonderful. I found that I could do nothing. Suddenly it dawned on my soul what it all meant. The knowledge was exquisite to me. I heard them hissing, and I smiled. What could they know of love such as ours? Take me away, Dorian -- take me away with you, where we can be quite alone. I hate the stage. I might mimic a passion that I do not feel, but I cannot mimic one that burns me like fire. Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand now what it signifies? Even if I could do it, it would be profanation for me to play at being in love. You have made me see that
You have killed my love
Yes
you have killed my love. You used to stir my imagination. Now you don't even stir my curiosity. You simply produce no effect. I loved you because you were marvellous, because you had genius and intellect, because you realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the shadows of art. You have thrown it all away. You are shallow and stupid. My God! how mad I was to love you! What a fool I have been! You are nothing to me now. I will never see you again. I will never think of you. I will never mention your name. You don't know what you were to me, once. Why, once . . . Oh, I can't bear to think of it! I wish I had never laid eyes upon you! You have spoiled the romance of my life. How little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! Without your art, you are nothing. I would have made you famous, splendid, magnificent. The world would have worshipped you, and you would have borne my name. What are you now? A third-rate actress with a pretty face
You are not serious, Dorian
You are acting
Acting! I leave that to you. You do it so well
Don't touch me
Dorian, Dorian, don't leave me
I am so sorry I didn't act well. I was thinking of you all the time. But I will try -- indeed, I will try. It came so suddenly across me, my love for you. I think I should never have known it if you had not kissed me -- if we had not kissed each other. Kiss me again, my love. Don't go away from me. I couldn't bear it. Oh! don't go away from me. My brother . . . No; never mind. He didn't mean it. He was in jest. . . . But you, oh! can't you forgive me for to-night? I will work so hard and try to improve. Don't be cruel to me, because I love you better than anything in the world. After all, it is only once that I have not pleased you. But you are quite right, Dorian. I should have shown myself more of an artist. It was foolish of me, and yet I couldn't help it. Oh, don't leave me, don't leave me
I am going
I don't wish to be unkind, but I can't see you again. You have disappointed me
How horrible
Monsieur has well slept this morning
What o'clock is it, Victor
One hour and a quarter, Monsieur
Too cold for Monsieur
I shut the window
I am not cold
I am not at home to any one, Victor
My dear boy, I must see you. Let me in at once. I can't bear your shutting yourself up like this
I am so sorry for it all, Dorian
But you must not think too much about it
Do you mean about Sibyl Vane
Yes, of course
It is dreadful, from one point of view, but it was not your fault. Tell me, did you go behind and see her, after the play was over
Yes
I felt sure you had. Did you make a scene with her
I was brutal, Harry -- perfectly brutal. But it is all right now. I am not sorry for anything that has happened. It has taught me to know myself better
Ah, Dorian, I am so glad you take it in that way! I was afraid I would find you plunged in remorse and tearing that nice curly hair of yours
I have got through all that
I am perfectly happy now. I know what conscience is, to begin with. It is not what you told me it was. It is the divinest thing in us. Don't sneer at it, Harry, any more -- at least not before me. I want to be good. I can't bear the idea of my soul being hideous
A very charming artistic basis for ethics, Dorian! I congratulate you on it. But how are you going to begin
By marrying Sibyl Vane
Marrying Sibyl Vane
But, my dear Dorian
Yes, Harry, I know what you are going to say. Something dreadful about marriage. Don't say it. Don't ever say things of that kind to me again. Two days ago I asked Sibyl to marry me. I am not going to break my word to her. She is to be my wife
Your wife! Dorian! . . . Didn't you get my letter? I wrote to you this morning, and sent the note down by my own man
Your letter? Oh, yes, I remember. I have not read it yet, Harry. I was afraid there might be something in it that I wouldn't like. You cut life to pieces with your epigrams
You know nothing then
What do you mean
Dorian
my letter -- don't be frightened -- was to tell you that Sibyl Vane is dead
Dead! Sibyl dead! It is not true! It is a horrible lie! How dare you say it
It is quite true, Dorian
It is in all the morning papers. I wrote down to you to ask you not to see any one till I came. There will have to be an inquest, of course, and you must not be mixed up in it. Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris. But in London people are so prejudiced. Here, one should never make one's debut with a scandal. One should reserve that to give an interest to one's old age. I suppose they don't know your name at the theatre? If they don't, it is all right. Did any one see you going round to her room? That is an important point
Harry, did you say an inquest? What did you mean by that? Did Sibyl --? Oh, Harry, I can't bear it! But be quick. Tell me everything at once
I have no doubt it was not an accident, Dorian, though it must be put in that way to the public. It seems that as she was leaving the theatre with her mother, about half-past twelve or so, she said she had forgotten something upstairs. They waited some time for her, but she did not come down again. They ultimately found her lying dead on the floor of her dressing-room. She had swallowed something by mistake, some dreadful thing they use at theatres. I don't know what it was, but it had either prussic acid or white lead in it. I should fancy it was prussic acid, as she seems to have died instantaneously
Harry, Harry, it is terrible
Yes; it is very tragic, of course, but you must not get yourself mixed up in it. I see by The Standard that she was seventeen. I should have thought she was almost younger than that. She looked such a child, and seemed to know so little about acting. Dorian, you mustn't let this thing get on your nerves. You must come and dine with me, and afterwards we will look in at the opera. It is a Patti night, and everybody will be there. You can come to my sister's box. She has got some smart women with her
So I have murdered Sibyl Vane
murdered her as surely as if I had cut her little throat with a knife. Yet the roses are not less lovely for all that. The birds sing just as happily in my garden. And to-night I am to dine with you, and then go on to the opera, and sup somewhere, I suppose, afterwards. How extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had read all this in a book, Harry, I think I would have wept over it. Somehow, now that it has happened actually, and to me, it seems far too wonderful for tears. Here is the first passionate love-letter I have ever written in my life. Strange, that my first passionate love-letter should have been addressed to a dead girl. Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead? Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen? Oh, Harry, how I loved her once! It seems years ago to me now. She was everything to me. Then came that dreadful night -- was it really only last night?-- when she played so badly, and my heart almost broke. She explained it all to me. It was terribly pathetic. But I was not moved a bit. I thought her shallow. Suddenly something happened that made me afraid. I can't tell you what it was, but it was terrible. I said I would go back to her. I felt I had done wrong. And now she is dead. My God! My God! Harry, what shall I do? You don't know the danger I am in, and there is nothing to keep me straight. She would have done that for me. She had no right to kill herself. It was selfish of her
My dear Dorian
the only way a woman can ever reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible interest in life. If you had married this girl, you would have been wretched. Of course, you would have treated her kindly. One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing. But she would have soon found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her. And when a woman finds that out about her husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy, or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman's husband has to pay for. I say nothing about the social mistake, which would have been abject -- which, of course, I would not have allowed -- but I assure you that in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute failure
I suppose it would
But I thought it was my duty. It is not my fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right. I remember your saying once that there is a fatality about good resolutions -- that they are always made too late. Mine certainly were
Good resolutions are useless attempts to interfere with scientific laws. Their origin is pure vanity. Their result is absolutely nil. They give us, now and then, some of those luxurious sterile emotions that have a certain charm for the weak. That is all that can be said for them. They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they have no account
Harry
why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want to? I don't think I am heartless. Do you
You have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight to be entitled to give yourself that name, Dorian
I don't like that explanation, Harry
but I am glad you don't think I am heartless. I am nothing of the kind. I know I am not. And yet I must admit that this thing that has happened does not affect me as it should. It seems to me to be simply like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play. It has all the terrible beauty of a Greek tragedy, a tragedy in which I took a great part, but by which I have not been wounded
It is an interesting question
an extremely interesting question. I fancy that the true explanation is this: It often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence, their absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack of style. They affect us just as vulgarity affects us. They give us an impression of sheer brute force, and we revolt against that. Sometimes, however, a tragedy that possesses artistic elements of beauty crosses our lives. If these elements of beauty are real, the whole thing simply appeals to our sense of dramatic effect. Suddenly we find that we are no longer the actors, but the spectators of the play. Or rather we are both. We watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle enthralls us. In the present case, what is it that has really happened? Some one has killed herself for love of you. I wish that I had ever had such an experience. It would have made me in love with love for the rest of my life. The people who have adored me -- there have not been very many, but there have been some -- have always insisted on living on, long after I had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me. They have become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go in at once for reminiscences. That awful memory of woman! What a fearful thing it is! And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals! One should absorb the colour of life, but one should never remember its details. Details are always vulgar
I must sow poppies in my garden
There is no necessity
Life has always poppies in her hands. Of course, now and then things linger. I once wore nothing but violets all through one season, as a form of artistic mourning for a romance that would not die. Ultimately, however, it did die. I forget what killed it. I think it was her proposing to sacrifice the whole world for me. That is always a dreadful moment. It fills one with the terror of eternity. Well -- would you believe it?-- a week ago, at Lady Hampshire's, I found myself seated at dinner next the lady in question, and she insisted on going over the whole thing again, and digging up the past, and raking up the future. I had buried my romance in a bed of asphodel. She dragged it out again and assured me that I had spoiled her life. I am bound to state that she ate an enormous dinner, so I did not feel any anxiety. But what a lack of taste she showed! The one charm of the past is that it is the past. But women never know when the curtain has fallen. They always want a sixth act, and as soon as the interest of the play is entirely over, they propose to continue it. If they were allowed their own way, every comedy would have a tragic ending, and every tragedy would culminate in a farce. They are charmingly artificial, but they have no sense of art. You are more fortunate than I am. I assure you, Dorian, that not one of the women I have known would have done for me what Sibyl Vane did for you. Ordinary women always console themselves. Some of them do it by going in for sentimental colours. Never trust a woman who wears mauve, whatever her age may be, or a woman over thirty-five who is fond of pink ribbons. It always means that they have a history. Others find a great consolation in suddenly discovering the good qualities of their husbands. They flaunt their conjugal felicity in one's face, as if it were the most fascinating of sins. Religion consoles some. Its mysteries have all the charm of a flirtation, a woman once told me, and I can quite understand it. Besides, nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a sinner. Conscience makes egotists of us all. Yes; there is really no end to the consolations that women find in modern life. Indeed, I have not mentioned the most important one
What is that, Harry
Oh, the obvious consolation. Taking some one else's admirer when one loses one's own. In good society that always whitewashes a woman. But really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the women one meets! There is something to me quite beautiful about her death. I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen. They make one believe in the reality of the things we all play with, such as romance, passion, and love
I was terribly cruel to her. You forget that
I am afraid that women appreciate cruelty, downright cruelty, more than anything else. They have wonderfully primitive instincts. We have emancipated them, but they remain slaves looking for their masters, all the same. They love being dominated. I am sure you were splendid. I have never seen you really and absolutely angry, but I can fancy how delightful you looked. And, after all, you said something to me the day before yesterday that seemed to me at the time to be merely fanciful, but that I see now was absolutely true, and it holds the key to everything
What was that, Harry
You said to me that Sibyl Vane represented to you all the heroines of romance -- that she was Desdemona one night, and Ophelia the other; that if she died as Juliet, she came to life as Imogen
She will never come to life again now
No, she will never come to life. She has played her last part. But you must think of that lonely death in the tawdry dressing-room simply as a strange lurid fragment from some Jacobean tragedy, as a wonderful scene from Webster, or Ford, or Cyril Tourneur. The girl never really lived, and so she has never really died. To you at least she was always a dream, a phantom that flitted through Shakespeare's plays and left them lovelier for its presence, a reed through which Shakespeare's music sounded richer and more full of joy. The moment she touched actual life, she marred it, and it marred her, and so she passed away. Mourn for Ophelia, if you like. Put ashes on your head because Cordelia was strangled. Cry out against Heaven because the daughter of Brabantio died. But don't waste your tears over Sibyl Vane. She was less real than they are
You have explained me to myself, Harry
I felt all that you have said, but somehow I was afraid of it, and I could not express it to myself. How well you know me! But we will not talk again of what has happened. It has been a marvellous experience. That is all. I wonder if life has still in store for me anything as marvellous
Life has everything in store for you, Dorian. There is nothing that you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do
But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and old, and wrinkled? What then
Ah, then
then, my dear Dorian, you would have to fight for your victories. As it is, they are brought to you. No, you must keep your good looks. We live in an age that reads too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful. We cannot spare you. And now you had better dress and drive down to the club. We are rather late, as it is
I think I shall join you at the opera, Harry. I feel too tired to eat anything. What is the number of your sister's box
Twenty-seven, I believe. It is on the grand tier. You will see her name on the door. But I am sorry you won't come and dine
I don't feel up to it
But I am awfully obliged to you for all that you have said to me. You are certainly my best friend. No one has ever understood me as you have
We are only at the beginning of our friendship, Dorian
Good-bye. I shall see you before nine-thirty, I hope. Remember, Patti is singing
I am so glad I have found you, Dorian
I called last night, and they told me you were at the opera. Of course, I knew that was impossible. But I wish you had left word where you had really gone to. I passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy might be followed by another. I think you might have telegraphed for me when you heard of it first. I read of it quite by chance in a late edition of The Globe that I picked up at the club. I came here at once and was miserable at not finding you. I can't tell you how heart-broken I am about the whole thing. I know what you must suffer. But where were you? Did you go down and see the girl's mother? For a moment I thought of following you there. They gave the address in the paper. Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn't it? But I was afraid of intruding upon a sorrow that I could not lighten. Poor woman! What a state she must be in! And her only child, too! What did she say about it all
My dear Basil, how do I know
I was at the opera. You should have come on there. I met Lady Gwendolen, Harry's sister, for the first time. We were in her box. She is perfectly charming; and Patti sang divinely. Don't talk about horrid subjects. If one doesn't talk about a thing, it has never happened. It is simply expression, as Harry says, that gives reality to things. I may mention that she was not the woman's only child. There is a son, a charming fellow, I believe. But he is not on the stage. He is a sailor, or something. And now, tell me about yourself and what you are painting
You went to the opera
You went to the opera while Sibyl Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging? You can talk to me of other women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in? Why, man, there are horrors in store for that little white body of hers
Stop, Basil! I won't hear it
You must not tell me about things. What is done is done. What is past is past
You call yesterday the past
What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it? It is only shallow people who require years to get rid of an emotion. A man who is master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a pleasure. I don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them
Dorian, this is horrible! Something has changed you completely. You look exactly the same wonderful boy who, day after day, used to come down to my studio to sit for his picture. But you were simple, natural, and affectionate then. You were the most unspoiled creature in the whole world. Now, I don't know what has come over you. You talk as if you had no heart, no pity in you. It is all Harry's influence. I see that
I owe a great deal to Harry, Basil
more than I owe to you. You only taught me to be vain
Well, I am punished for that, Dorian -- or shall be some day
I don't know what you mean, Basil
I don't know what you want. What do you want
I want the Dorian Gray I used to paint
Basil
you have come too late. Yesterday, when I heard that Sibyl Vane had killed herself
Killed herself! Good heavens! is there no doubt about that
My dear Basil! Surely you don't think it was a vulgar accident? Of course she killed herself
How fearful
No
there is nothing fearful about it. It is one of the great romantic tragedies of the age. As a rule, people who act lead the most commonplace lives. They are good husbands, or faithful wives, or something tedious. You know what I mean -- middle-class virtue and all that kind of thing. How different Sibyl was! She lived her finest tragedy. She was always a heroine. The last night she played -- the night you saw her -- she acted badly because she had known the reality of love. When she knew its unreality, she died, as Juliet might have died. She passed again into the sphere of art. There is something of the martyr about her. Her death has all the pathetic uselessness of martyrdom, all its wasted beauty. But, as I was saying, you must not think I have not suffered. If you had come in yesterday at a particular moment -- about half-past five, perhaps, or a quarter to six -- you would have found me in tears. Even Harry, who was here, who brought me the news, in fact, had no idea what I was going through. I suffered immensely. Then it passed away. I cannot repeat an emotion. No one can, except sentimentalists. And you are awfully unjust, Basil. You come down here to console me. That is charming of you. You find me consoled, and you are furious. How like a sympathetic person! You remind me of a story Harry told me about a certain philanthropist who spent twenty years of his life in trying to get some grievance redressed, or some unjust law altered -- I forget exactly what it was. Finally he succeeded, and nothing could exceed his disappointment. He had absolutely nothing to do, almost died of ennui, and became a confirmed misanthrope. And besides, my dear old Basil, if you really want to console me, teach me rather to forget what has happened, or to see it from a proper artistic point of view. Was it not Gautier who used to write about la consolation des arts? I remember picking up a little vellum-covered book in your studio one day and chancing on that delightful phrase. Well, I am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at Marlow together, the young man who used to say that yellow satin could console one for all the miseries of life. I love beautiful things that one can touch and handle. Old brocades, green bronzes, lacquer-work, carved ivories, exquisite surroundings, luxury, pomp -- there is much to be got from all these. But the artistic temperament that they create, or at any rate reveal, is still more to me. To become the spectator of one's own life, as Harry says, is to escape the suffering of life. I know you are surprised at my talking to you like this. You have not realized how I have developed. I was a schoolboy when you knew me. I am a man now. I have new passions, new thoughts, new ideas. I am different, but you must not like me less. I am changed, but you must always be my friend. Of course, I am very fond of Harry. But I know that you are better than he is. You are not stronger -- you are too much afraid of life -- but you are better. And how happy we used to be together! Don't leave me, Basil, and don't quarrel with me. I am what I am. There is nothing more to be said
Well, Dorian
I won't speak to you again about this horrible thing, after to-day. I only trust your name won't be mentioned in connection with it. The inquest is to take place this afternoon. Have they summoned you
inquest
They don't know my name
But surely she did
Only my Christian name, and that I am quite sure she never mentioned to any one. She told me once that they were all rather curious to learn who I was, and that she invariably told them my name was Prince Charming. It was pretty of her. You must do me a drawing of Sibyl, Basil. I should like to have something more of her than the memory of a few kisses and some broken pathetic words
I will try and do something, Dorian, if it would please you. But you must come and sit to me yourself again. I can't get on without you
I can never sit to you again, Basil. It is impossible
My dear boy, what nonsense
Do you mean to say you don't like what I did of you? Where is it? Why have you pulled the screen in front of it? Let me look at it. It is the best thing I have ever done. Do take the screen away, Dorian. It is simply disgraceful of your servant hiding my work like that. I felt the room looked different as I came in
My servant has nothing to do with it, Basil. You don't imagine I let him arrange my room for me? He settles my flowers for me sometimes -- that is all. No; I did it myself. The light was too strong on the portrait
Too strong! Surely not, my dear fellow? It is an admirable place for it. Let me see it
Basil
you must not look at it. I don't wish you to
Not look at my own work! You are not serious. Why shouldn't I look at it
If you try to look at it, Basil, on my word of honour I will never speak to you again as long as I live. I am quite serious. I don't offer any explanation, and you are not to ask for any. But, remember, if you touch this screen, everything is over between us
Dorian
Don't speak
But what is the matter? Of course I won't look at it if you don't want me to
But, really, it seems rather absurd that I shouldn't see my own work, especially as I am going to exhibit it in Paris in the autumn. I shall probably have to give it another coat of varnish before that, so I must see it some day, and why not to-day
To exhibit it! You want to exhibit it
Yes; I don't suppose you will object to that. Georges Petit is going to collect all my best pictures for a special exhibition in the Rue de Seze, which will open the first week in October. The portrait will only be away a month. I should think you could easily spare it for that time. In fact, you are sure to be out of town. And if you keep it always behind a screen, you can't care much about it
You told me a month ago that you would never exhibit it
Why have you changed your mind? You people who go in for being consistent have just as many moods as others have. The only difference is that your moods are rather meaningless. You can't have forgotten that you assured me most solemnly that nothing in the world would induce you to send it to any exhibition. You told Harry exactly the same thing
If you want to have a strange quarter of an hour, get Basil to tell you why he won't exhibit your picture. He told me why he wouldn't, and it was a revelation to me
Basil
we have each of us a secret. Let me know yours, and I shall tell you mine. What was your reason for refusing to exhibit my picture
Dorian, if I told you, you might like me less than you do, and you would certainly laugh at me. I could not bear your doing either of those two things. If you wish me never to look at your picture again, I am content. I have always you to look at. If you wish the best work I have ever done to be hidden from the world, I am satisfied. Your friendship is dearer to me than any fame or reputation
No, Basil, you must tell me
I think I have a right to know
Let us sit down, Dorian
Let us sit down. And just answer me one question. Have you noticed in the picture something curious?-- something that probably at first did not strike you, but that revealed itself to you suddenly
Basil
I see you did. Don't speak. Wait till you hear what I have to say. Dorian, from the moment I met you, your personality had the most extraordinary influence over me. I was dominated, soul, brain, and power, by you. You became to me the visible incarnation of that unseen ideal whose memory haunts us artists like an exquisite dream. I worshipped you. I grew jealous of every one to whom you spoke. I wanted to have you all to myself. I was only happy when I was with you. When you were away from me, you were still present in my art.... Of course, I never let you know anything about this. It would have been impossible. You would not have understood it. I hardly understood it myself. I only knew that I had seen perfection face to face, and that the world had become wonderful to my eyes -- too wonderful, perhaps, for in such mad worships there is peril, the peril of losing them, no less than the peril of keeping them.... Weeks and weeks went on, and I grew more and more absorbed in you. Then came a new development. I had drawn you as Paris in dainty armour, and as Adonis with huntsman's cloak and polished boar-spear. Crowned with heavy lotus-blossoms you had sat on the prow of Adrian's barge, gazing across the green turbid Nile. You had leaned over the still pool of some Greek woodland and seen in the water's silent silver the marvel of your own face. And it had all been what art should be -- unconscious, ideal, and remote. One day, a fatal day I sometimes think, I determined to paint a wonderful portrait of you as you actually are, not in the costume of dead ages, but in your own dress and in your own time. Whether it was the realism of the method, or the mere wonder of your own personality, thus directly presented to me without mist or veil, I cannot tell. But I know that as I worked at it, every flake and film of colour seemed to me to reveal my secret. I grew afraid that others would know of my idolatry. I felt, Dorian, that I had told too much, that I had put too much of myself into it. Then it was that I resolved never to allow the picture to be exhibited. You were a little annoyed; but then you did not realize all that it meant to me. Harry, to whom I talked about it, laughed at me. But I did not mind that. When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I felt that I was right.... Well, after a few days the thing left my studio, and as soon as I had got rid of the intolerable fascination of its presence, it seemed to me that I had been foolish in imagining that I had seen anything in it, more than that you were extremely good-looking and that I could paint. Even now I cannot help feeling that it is a mistake to think that the passion one feels in creation is ever really shown in the work one creates. Art is always more abstract than we fancy. Form and colour tell us of form and colour -- that is all. It often seems to me that art conceals the artist far more completely than it ever reveals him. And so when I got this offer from Paris, I determined to make your portrait the principal thing in my exhibition. It never occurred to me that you would refuse. I see now that you were right. The picture cannot be shown. You must not be angry with me, Dorian, for what I have told you. As I said to Harry, once, you are made to be worshipped
It is extraordinary to me, Dorian
that you should have seen this in the portrait. Did you really see it
I saw something in it
something that seemed to me very curious
Well, you don't mind my looking at the thing now
You must not ask me that, Basil. I could not possibly let you stand in front of that picture
You will some day, surely
Never
Well, perhaps you are right. And now good-bye, Dorian. You have been the one person in my life who has really influenced my art. Whatever I have done that is good, I owe to you. Ah! you don't know what it cost me to tell you all that I have told you
My dear Basil
what have you told me? Simply that you felt that you admired me too much. That is not even a compliment
It was not intended as a compliment. It was a confession. Now that I have made it, something seems to have gone out of me. Perhaps one should never put one's worship into words
It was a very disappointing confession
Why, what did you expect, Dorian? You didn't see anything else in the picture, did you? There was nothing else to see
No; there was nothing else to see. Why do you ask? But you mustn't talk about worship. It is foolish. You and I are friends, Basil, and we must always remain so
You have got Harry
Oh, Harry
Harry spends his days in saying what is incredible and his evenings in doing what is improbable. Just the sort of life I would like to lead. But still I don't think I would go to Harry if I were in trouble. I would sooner go to you, Basil
You will sit to me again
Impossible
You spoil my life as an artist by refusing, Dorian. No man comes across two ideal things. Few come across one
I can't explain it to you, Basil, but I must never sit to you again. There is something fatal about a portrait. It has a life of its own. I will come and have tea with you. That will be just as pleasant
Pleasanter for you, I am afraid
And now good-bye. I am sorry you won't let me look at the picture once again. But that can't be helped. I quite understand what you feel about it
The old schoolroom, Mr. Dorian
Why, it is full of dust. I must get it arranged and put straight before you go into it. It is not fit for you to see, sir. It is not, indeed
I don't want it put straight, Leaf. I only want the key
Well, sir, you'll be covered with cobwebs if you go into it. Why, it hasn't been opened for nearly five years -- not since his lordship died
That does not matter
I simply want to see the place -- that is all. Give me the key
And here is the key, sir
Here is the key. I'll have it off the bunch in a moment. But you don't think of living up there, sir, and you so comfortable here
No, no
Thank you, Leaf. That will do
The persons are here, Monsieur
Wait for an answer
and show the men in here
What can I do for you, Mr. Gray
I thought I would do myself the honour of coming round in person. I have just got a beauty of a frame, sir. Picked it up at a sale. Old Florentine. Came from Fonthill, I believe. Admirably suited for a religious subject, Mr. Gray
I am so sorry you have given yourself the trouble of coming round, Mr. Hubbard. I shall certainly drop in and look at the frame -- though I don't go in much at present for religious art -- but to-day I only want a picture carried to the top of the house for me. It is rather heavy, so I thought I would ask you to lend me a couple of your men
No trouble at all, Mr. Gray. I am delighted to be of any service to you. Which is the work of art, sir
This
Can you move it, covering and all, just as it is? I don't want it to get scratched going upstairs
There will be no difficulty, sir
And, now, where shall we carry it to, Mr. Gray
I will show you the way, Mr. Hubbard, if you will kindly follow me. Or perhaps you had better go in front. I am afraid it is right at the top of the house. We will go up by the front staircase, as it is wider
Something of a load to carry, sir
I am afraid it is rather heavy
Bring it in, Mr. Hubbard, please
I am sorry I kept you so long. I was thinking of something else
Always glad to have a rest, Mr. Gray
Where shall we put it, sir
Oh, anywhere. Here: this will do. I don't want to have it hung up. Just lean it against the wall. Thanks
Might one look at the work of art, sir
It would not interest you, Mr. Hubbard
I shan't trouble you any more now. I am much obliged for your kindness in coming round
Not at all, not at all, Mr. Gray. Ever ready to do anything for you, sir
I am so sorry, Harry
but really it is entirely your fault. That book you sent me so fascinated me that I forgot how the time was going
Yes, I thought you would like it
I didn't say I liked it, Harry. I said it fascinated me. There is a great difference
Ah, you have discovered that
make themselves perfect by the worship of beauty
the visible world existed
panis caelestis
with collars of real emeralds growing on their backs
made of sardius, with the horn of the horned snake inwrought, so that no man might bring poison within
two golden apples, in which were two carbuncles
all the chaste ladies of the world, inchased out of silver, looking through fair mirrours of chrysolites, carbuncles, sapphires, and greene emeraults
a jacket of raised gold, the placard embroidered with diamonds and other rich stones, and a great bauderike about his neck of large balasses
Madame, je suis tout joyeux
thirteen hundred and twenty-one parrots, made in broidery, and blazoned with the king's arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose wings were similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the whole worked in gold
woven air
running water
caressed by the Court for his handsome face, which kept him not long company
Dorian! What an extraordinary piece of luck! I have been waiting for you in your library ever since nine o'clock. Finally I took pity on your tired servant and told him to go to bed, as he let me out. I am off to Paris by the midnight train, and I particularly wanted to see you before I left. I thought it was you, or rather your fur coat, as you passed me. But I wasn't quite sure. Didn't you recognize me
In this fog, my dear Basil? Why, I can't even recognize Grosvenor Square. I believe my house is somewhere about here, but I don't feel at all certain about it. I am sorry you are going away, as I have not seen you for ages. But I suppose you will be back soon
No: I am going to be out of England for six months. I intend to take a studio in Paris and shut myself up till I have finished a great picture I have in my head. However, it wasn't about myself I wanted to talk. Here we are at your door. Let me come in for a moment. I have something to say to you
I shall be charmed. But won't you miss your train
I have heaps of time
The train doesn't go till twelve-fifteen, and it is only just eleven. In fact, I was on my way to the club to look for you, when I met you. You see, I shan't have any delay about luggage, as I have sent on my heavy things. All I have with me is in this bag, and I can easily get to Victoria in twenty minutes
What a way for a fashionable painter to travel! A Gladstone bag and an ulster! Come in, or the fog will get into the house. And mind you don't talk about anything serious. Nothing is serious nowadays. At least nothing should be
You see your servant made me quite at home, Dorian. He gave me everything I wanted, including your best gold-tipped cigarettes. He is a most hospitable creature. I like him much better than the Frenchman you used to have. What has become of the Frenchman, by the bye
I believe he married Lady Radley's maid, and has established her in Paris as an English dressmaker. Anglomania is very fashionable over there now, I hear. It seems silly of the French, doesn't it? But -- do you know?-- he was not at all a bad servant. I never liked him, but I had nothing to complain about. One often imagines things that are quite absurd. He was really very devoted to me and seemed quite sorry when he went away. Have another brandy-and-soda? Or would you like hock-and-seltzer? I always take hock-and-seltzer myself. There is sure to be some in the next room
Thanks, I won't have anything more
And now, my dear fellow, I want to speak to you seriously. Don't frown like that. You make it so much more difficult for me
What is it all about
I hope it is not about myself. I am tired of myself to-night. I should like to be somebody else
It is about yourself
and I must say it to you. I shall only keep you half an hour
Half an hour
It is not much to ask of you, Dorian, and it is entirely for your own sake that I am speaking. I think it right that you should know that the most dreadful things are being said against you in London
I don't wish to know anything about them. I love scandals about other people, but scandals about myself don't interest me. They have not got the charm of novelty
They must interest you, Dorian. Every gentleman is interested in his good name. You don't want people to talk of you as something vile and degraded. Of course, you have your position, and your wealth, and all that kind of thing. But position and wealth are not everything. Mind you, I don't believe these rumours at all. At least, I can't believe them when I see you. Sin is a thing that writes itself across a man's face. It cannot be concealed. People talk sometimes of secret vices. There are no such things. If a wretched man has a vice, it shows itself in the lines of his mouth, the droop of his eyelids, the moulding of his hands even. Somebody -- I won't mention his name, but you know him -- came to me last year to have his portrait done. I had never seen him before, and had never heard anything about him at the time, though I have heard a good deal since. He offered an extravagant price. I refused him. There was something in the shape of his fingers that I hated. I know now that I was quite right in what I fancied about him. His life is dreadful. But you, Dorian, with your pure, bright, innocent face, and your marvellous untroubled youth -- I can't believe anything against you. And yet I see you very seldom, and you never come down to the studio now, and when I am away from you, and I hear all these hideous things that people are whispering about you, I don't know what to say. Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it? Why is it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs? You used to be a friend of Lord Staveley. I met him at dinner last week. Your name happened to come up in conversation, in connection with the miniatures you have lent to the exhibition at the Dudley. Staveley curled his lip and said that you might have the most artistic tastes, but that you were a man whom no pure-minded girl should be allowed to know, and whom no chaste woman should sit in the same room with. I reminded him that I was a friend of yours, and asked him what he meant. He told me. He told me right out before everybody. It was horrible! Why is your friendship so fatal to young men? There was that wretched boy in the Guards who committed suicide. You were his great friend. There was Sir Henry Ashton, who had to leave England with a tarnished name. You and he were inseparable. What about Adrian Singleton and his dreadful end? What about Lord Kent's only son and his career? I met his father yesterday in St. James's Street. He seemed broken with shame and sorrow. What about the young Duke of Perth? What sort of life has he got now? What gentleman would associate with him
Stop, Basil. You are talking about things of which you know nothing
You ask me why Berwick leaves a room when I enter it. It is because I know everything about his life, not because he knows anything about mine. With such blood as he has in his veins, how could his record be clean? You ask me about Henry Ashton and young Perth. Did I teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery? If Kent's silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me? If Adrian Singleton writes his friend's name across a bill, am I his keeper? I know how people chatter in England. The middle classes air their moral prejudices over their gross dinner-tables, and whisper about what they call the profligacies of their betters in order to try and pretend that they are in smart society and on intimate terms with the people they slander. In this country, it is enough for a man to have distinction and brains for every common tongue to wag against him. And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead themselves? My dear fellow, you forget that we are in the native land of the hypocrite
Dorian
that is not the question. England is bad enough I know, and English society is all wrong. That is the reason why I want you to be fine. You have not been fine. One has a right to judge of a man by the effect he has over his friends. Yours seem to lose all sense of honour, of goodness, of purity. You have filled them with a madness for pleasure. They have gone down into the depths. You led them there. Yes: you led them there, and yet you can smile, as you are smiling now. And there is worse behind. I know you and Harry are inseparable. Surely for that reason, if for none other, you should not have made his sister's name a by-word
Take care, Basil. You go too far
I must speak, and you must listen. You shall listen. When you met Lady Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her. Is there a single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the park? Why, even her children are not allowed to live with her. Then there are other stories -- stories that you have been seen creeping at dawn out of dreadful houses and slinking in disguise into the foulest dens in London. Are they true? Can they be true? When I first heard them, I laughed. I hear them now, and they make me shudder. What about your country-house and the life that is led there? Dorian, you don't know what is said about you. I won't tell you that I don't want to preach to you. I remember Harry saying once that every man who turned himself into an amateur curate for the moment always began by saying that, and then proceeded to break his word. I do want to preach to you. I want you to lead such a life as will make the world respect you. I want you to have a clean name and a fair record. I want you to get rid of the dreadful people you associate with. Don't shrug your shoulders like that. Don't be so indifferent. You have a wonderful influence. Let it be for good, not for evil. They say that you corrupt every one with whom you become intimate, and that it is quite sufficient for you to enter a house for shame of some kind to follow after. I don't know whether it is so or not. How should I know? But it is said of you. I am told things that it seems impossible to doubt. Lord Gloucester was one of my greatest friends at Oxford. He showed me a letter that his wife had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at Mentone. Your name was implicated in the most terrible confession I ever read. I told him that it was absurd -- that I knew you thoroughly and that you were incapable of anything of the kind. Know you? I wonder do I know you? Before I could answer that, I should have to see your soul
To see my soul
Yes
to see your soul. But only God can do that
You shall see it yourself, to-night
Come: it is your own handiwork. Why shouldn't you look at it? You can tell the world all about it afterwards, if you choose. Nobody would believe you. If they did believe you, they would like me all the better for it. I know the age better than you do, though you will prate about it so tediously. Come, I tell you. You have chattered enough about corruption. Now you shall look on it face to face
Yes
I shall show you my soul. You shall see the thing that you fancy only God can see
This is blasphemy, Dorian
You must not say things like that. They are horrible, and they don't mean anything
You think so
I know so. As for what I said to you to-night, I said it for your good. You know I have been always a stanch friend to you
Don't touch me. Finish what you have to say
I am waiting, Basil
What I have to say is this
You must give me some answer to these horrible charges that are made against you. If you tell me that they are absolutely untrue from beginning to end, I shall believe you. Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can't you see what I am going through? My God! don't tell me that you are bad, and corrupt, and shameful
Come upstairs, Basil
I keep a diary of my life from day to day, and it never leaves the room in which it is written. I shall show it to you if you come with me
I shall come with you, Dorian, if you wish it. I see I have missed my train. That makes no matter. I can go to-morrow. But don't ask me to read anything to-night. All I want is a plain answer to my question
That shall be given to you upstairs. I could not give it here. You will not have to read long
You insist on knowing, Basil
Yes
I am delighted
Shut the door behind you
So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil? Draw that curtain back, and you will see mine
You are mad, Dorian, or playing a part
You won't? Then I must do it myself
What does this mean
Years ago, when I was a boy
I remember it! Oh, how well I remember it! No! the thing is impossible. The room is damp. Mildew has got into the canvas. The paints I used had some wretched mineral poison in them. I tell you the thing is impossible
Ah, what is impossible
You told me you had destroyed it
I was wrong. It has destroyed me
I don't believe it is my picture
Can't you see your ideal in it
My ideal, as you call it
As you called it
There was nothing evil in it, nothing shameful. You were to me such an ideal as I shall never meet again. This is the face of a satyr
It is the face of my soul
Christ! what a thing I must have worshipped! It has the eyes of a devil
Each of us has heaven and hell in him, Basil
My God! If it is true
and this is what you have done with your life, why, you must be worse even than those who talk against you fancy you to be
Good God, Dorian, what a lesson! What an awful lesson
Pray, Dorian, pray
What is it that one was taught to say in one's boyhood? 'Lead us not into temptation. Forgive us our sins. Wash away our iniquities.' Let us say that together. The prayer of your pride has been answered. The prayer of your repentance will be answered also. I worshipped you too much. I am punished for it. You worshipped yourself too much. We are both punished
It is too late, Basil
It is never too late, Dorian. Let us kneel down and try if we cannot remember a prayer. Isn't there a verse somewhere, 'Though your sins be as scarlet, yet I will make them as white as snow
Those words mean nothing to me now
Hush! Don't say that. You have done enough evil in your life. My God! Don't you see that accursed thing leering at us
I am sorry to have had to wake you up, Francis
but I had forgotten my latch-key. What time is it
Ten minutes past two, sir
Ten minutes past two? How horribly late! You must wake me at nine to-morrow. I have some work to do
All right, sir
Did any one call this evening
Mr. Hallward, sir. He stayed here till eleven, and then he went away to catch his train
Oh! I am sorry I didn't see him. Did he leave any message
No, sir, except that he would write to you from Paris, if he did not find you at the club
That will do, Francis. Don't forget to call me at nine to-morrow
No, sir
Alan Campbell, 152, Hertford Street, Mayfair
That awful thing, a woman's memory
Take this round to 152, Hertford Street, Francis, and if Mr. Campbell is out of town, get his address
du supplice encore mal lavee
doigts de faune
Devant une facade rose, Sur le marbre d'un escalier
Mr. Campbell, sir
Ask him to come in at once, Francis
Alan! This is kind of you. I thank you for coming
I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray. But you said it was a matter of life and death
Yes: it is a matter of life and death, Alan, and to more than one person. Sit down
Alan, in a locked room at the top of this house, a room to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at a table. He has been dead ten hours now. Don't stir, and don't look at me like that. Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not concern you. What you have to do is this
Stop, Gray. I don't want to know anything further. Whether what you have told me is true or not true doesn't concern me. I entirely decline to be mixed up in your life. Keep your horrible secrets to yourself. They don't interest me any more
Alan, they will have to interest you. This one will have to interest you. I am awfully sorry for you, Alan. But I can't help myself. You are the one man who is able to save me. I am forced to bring you into the matter. I have no option. Alan, you are scientific. You know about chemistry and things of that kind. You have made experiments. What you have got to do is to destroy the thing that is upstairs -- to destroy it so that not a vestige of it will be left. Nobody saw this person come into the house. Indeed, at the present moment he is supposed to be in Paris. He will not be missed for months. When he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here. You, Alan, you must change him, and everything that belongs to him, into a handful of ashes that I may scatter in the air
You are mad, Dorian
Ah! I was waiting for you to call me Dorian
You are mad, I tell you -- mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to help you, mad to make this monstrous confession. I will have nothing to do with this matter, whatever it is. Do you think I am going to peril my reputation for you? What is it to me what devil's work you are up to
It was suicide, Alan
I am glad of that. But who drove him to it? You, I should fancy
Do you still refuse to do this for me
Of course I refuse. I will have absolutely nothing to do with it. I don't care what shame comes on you. You deserve it all. I should not be sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced. How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror? I should have thought you knew more about people's characters. Your friend Lord Henry Wotton can't have taught you much about psychology, whatever else he has taught you. Nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you. You have come to the wrong man. Go to some of your friends. Don't come to me
Alan, it was murder. I killed him. You don't know what he had made me suffer. Whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making or the marring of it than poor Harry has had. He may not have intended it, the result was the same
Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to? I shall not inform upon you. It is not my business. Besides, without my stirring in the matter, you are certain to be arrested. Nobody ever commits a crime without doing something stupid. But I will have nothing to do with it
You must have something to do with it. Wait, wait a moment; listen to me. Only listen, Alan. All I ask of you is to perform a certain scientific experiment. You go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the horrors that you do there don't affect you. If in some hideous dissecting-room or fetid laboratory you found this man lying on a leaden table with red gutters scooped out in it for the blood to flow through, you would simply look upon him as an admirable subject. You would not turn a hair. You would not believe that you were doing anything wrong. On the contrary, you would probably feel that you were benefiting the human race, or increasing the sum of knowledge in the world, or gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind. What I want you to do is merely what you have often done before. Indeed, to destroy a body must be far less horrible than what you are accustomed to work at. And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence against me. If it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be discovered unless you help me
I have no desire to help you. You forget that. I am simply indifferent to the whole thing. It has nothing to do with me
Alan, I entreat you. Think of the position I am in. Just before you came I almost fainted with terror. You may know terror yourself some day. No! don't think of that. Look at the matter purely from the scientific point of view. You don't inquire where the dead things on which you experiment come from. Don't inquire now. I have told you too much as it is. But I beg of you to do this. We were friends once, Alan
Don't speak about those days, Dorian -- they are dead
The dead linger sometimes. The man upstairs will not go away. He is sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms. Alan! Alan! If you don't come to my assistance, I am ruined. Why, they will hang me, Alan! Don't you understand? They will hang me for what I have done
There is no good in prolonging this scene. I absolutely refuse to do anything in the matter. It is insane of you to ask me
You refuse
Yes
I entreat you, Alan
It is useless
I am so sorry for you, Alan
but you leave me no alternative. I have a letter written already. Here it is. You see the address. If you don't help me, I must send it. If you don't help me, I will send it. You know what the result will be. But you are going to help me. It is impossible for you to refuse now. I tried to spare you. You will do me the justice to admit that. You were stern, harsh, offensive. You treated me as no man has ever dared to treat me -- no living man, at any rate. I bore it all. Now it is for me to dictate terms
Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan. You know what they are. The thing is quite simple. Come, don't work yourself into this fever. The thing has to be done. Face it, and do it
Come, Alan, you must decide at once
I cannot do it
You must. You have no choice. Don't delay
Is there a fire in the room upstairs
Yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos
I shall have to go home and get some things from the laboratory
No, Alan, you must not leave the house. Write out on a sheet of notepaper what you want and my servant will take a cab and bring the things back to you
You are infamous, absolutely infamous
Hush, Alan. You have saved my life
Your life? Good heavens! what a life that is! You have gone from corruption to corruption, and now you have culminated in crime. In doing what I am going to do -- what you force me to do -- it is not of your life that I am thinking
Ah, Alan
I wish you had a thousandth part of the pity for me that I have for you
Shall I leave the things here, sir
Yes
And I am afraid, Francis, that I have another errand for you. What is the name of the man at Richmond who supplies Selby with orchids
Harden, sir
Yes -- Harden. You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden personally, and tell him to send twice as many orchids as I ordered, and to have as few white ones as possible. In fact, I don't want any white ones. It is a lovely day, Francis, and Richmond is a very pretty place -- otherwise I wouldn't bother you about it
No trouble, sir. At what time shall I be back
How long will your experiment take, Alan
It will take about five hours
It will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past seven, Francis. Or stay: just leave my things out for dressing. You can have the evening to yourself. I am not dining at home, so I shall not want you
Thank you, sir
Now, Alan, there is not a moment to be lost. How heavy this chest is! I'll take it for you. You bring the other things
I don't think I can go in, Alan
It is nothing to me. I don't require you
Leave me now
I have done what you asked me to do
And now, good-bye. Let us never see each other again
You have saved me from ruin, Alan. I cannot forget that
I know, my dear, I should have fallen madly in love with you
and thrown my bonnet right over the mills for your sake. It is most fortunate that you were not thought of at the time. As it was, our bonnets were so unbecoming, and the mills were so occupied in trying to raise the wind, that I never had even a flirtation with anybody. However, that was all Narborough's fault. He was dreadfully short-sighted, and there is no pleasure in taking in a husband who never sees anything
I think it is most unkind of her, my dear
Of course I go and stay with them every summer after I come from Homburg, but then an old woman like me must have fresh air sometimes, and besides, I really wake them up. You don't know what an existence they lead down there. It is pure unadulterated country life. They get up early, because they have so much to do, and go to bed early, because they have so little to think about. There has not been a scandal in the neighbourhood since the time of Queen Elizabeth, and consequently they all fall asleep after dinner. You shan't sit next either of them. You shall sit by me and amuse me
How horrid of Henry Wotton to be so late! I sent round to him this morning on chance and he promised faithfully not to disappoint me
an insult to poor Adolphe, who invented the menu specially for you
Dorian
what is the matter with you to-night? You are quite out of sorts
I believe he is in love
and that he is afraid to tell me for fear I should be jealous. He is quite right. I certainly should
Dear Lady Narborough
I have not been in love for a whole week -- not, in fact, since Madame de Ferrol left town
How you men can fall in love with that woman
I really cannot understand it
It is simply because she remembers you when you were a little girl, Lady Narborough
She is the one link between us and your short frocks
She does not remember my short frocks at all, Lord Henry. But I remember her very well at Vienna thirty years ago, and how decolletee she was then
She is still decolletee
and when she is in a very smart gown she looks like an edition de luxe of a bad French novel. She is really wonderful, and full of surprises. Her capacity for family affection is extraordinary. When her third husband died, her hair turned quite gold from grief
How can you, Harry
It is a most romantic explanation
But her third husband, Lord Henry! You don't mean to say Ferrol is the fourth
Certainly, Lady Narborough
I don't believe a word of it
Well, ask Mr. Gray. He is one of her most intimate friends
Is it true, Mr. Gray
She assures me so, Lady Narborough
I asked her whether, like Marguerite de Navarre, she had their hearts embalmed and hung at her girdle. She told me she didn't, because none of them had had any hearts at all
Four husbands! Upon my word that is trop de zele
Trop d'audace, I tell her
Oh! she is audacious enough for anything, my dear. And what is Ferrol like? I don't know him
The husbands of very beautiful women belong to the criminal classes
Lord Henry, I am not at all surprised that the world says that you are extremely wicked
But what world says that
It can only be the next world. This world and I are on excellent terms
Everybody I know says you are very wicked
It is perfectly monstrous
the way people go about nowadays saying things against one behind one's back that are absolutely and entirely true
Isn't he incorrigible
I hope so
But really, if you all worship Madame de Ferrol in this ridiculous way, I shall have to marry again so as to be in the fashion
You will never marry again, Lady Narborough
You were far too happy. When a woman marries again, it is because she detested her first husband. When a man marries again, it is because he adored his first wife. Women try their luck; men risk theirs
Narborough wasn't perfect
If he had been, you would not have loved him, my dear lady
Women love us for our defects. If we have enough of them, they will forgive us everything, even our intellects. You will never ask me to dinner again after saying this, I am afraid, Lady Narborough, but it is quite true
Of course it is true, Lord Henry. If we women did not love you for your defects, where would you all be? Not one of you would ever be married. You would be a set of unfortunate bachelors. Not, however, that that would alter you much. Nowadays all the married men live like bachelors, and all the bachelors like married men
Fin de siecle
Fin du globe
I wish it were fin du globe
Life is a great disappointment
Ah, my dear
don't tell me that you have exhausted life. When a man says that one knows that life has exhausted him. Lord Henry is very wicked, and I sometimes wish that I had been; but you are made to be good -- you look so good. I must find you a nice wife. Lord Henry, don't you think that Mr. Gray should get married
I am always telling him so, Lady Narborough
Well, we must look out for a suitable match for him. I shall go through Debrett carefully to-night and draw out a list of all the eligible young ladies
With their ages, Lady Narborough
Of course, with their ages, slightly edited. But nothing must be done in a hurry. I want it to be what The Morning Post calls a suitable alliance, and I want you both to be happy
What nonsense people talk about happy marriages
A man can be happy with any woman, as long as he does not love her
Ah! what a cynic you are
You must come and dine with me soon again. You are really an admirable tonic, much better than what Sir Andrew prescribes for me. You must tell me what people you would like to meet, though. I want it to be a delightful gathering
I like men who have a future and women who have a past
Or do you think that would make it a petticoat party
I fear so
A thousand pardons, my dear Lady Ruxton
I didn't see you hadn't finished your cigarette
Never mind, Lady Narborough. I smoke a great deal too much. I am going to limit myself, for the future
Pray don't, Lady Ruxton
Moderation is a fatal thing. Enough is as bad as a meal. More than enough is as good as a feast
You must come and explain that to me some afternoon, Lord Henry. It sounds a fascinating theory
Now, mind you don't stay too long over your politics and scandal
If you do, we are sure to squabble upstairs
Are you better, my dear fellow
You seemed rather out of sorts at dinner
I am quite well, Harry. I am tired. That is all
You were charming last night. The little duchess is quite devoted to you. She tells me she is going down to Selby
She has promised to come on the twentieth
Is Monmouth to be there, too
Oh, yes, Harry
He bores me dreadfully, almost as much as he bores her. She is very clever, too clever for a woman. She lacks the indefinable charm of weakness. It is the feet of clay that make the gold of the image precious. Her feet are very pretty, but they are not feet of clay. White porcelain feet, if you like. They have been through the fire, and what fire does not destroy, it hardens. She has had experiences
How long has she been married
An eternity, she tells me. I believe, according to the peerage, it is ten years, but ten years with Monmouth must have been like eternity, with time thrown in. Who else is coming
Oh, the Willoughbys, Lord Rugby and his wife, our hostess, Geoffrey Clouston, the usual set. I have asked Lord Grotrian
I like him
A great many people don't, but I find him charming. He atones for being occasionally somewhat overdressed by being always absolutely over-educated. He is a very modern type
I don't know if he will be able to come, Harry. He may have to go to Monte Carlo with his father
Ah! what a nuisance people's people are! Try and make him come. By the way, Dorian, you ran off very early last night. You left before eleven. What did you do afterwards? Did you go straight home
No, Harry
I did not get home till nearly three
Did you go to the club
Yes
No, I don't mean that. I didn't go to the club. I walked about. I forget what I did. . . . How inquisitive you are, Harry! You always want to know what one has been doing. I always want to forget what I have been doing. I came in at half-past two, if you wish to know the exact time. I had left my latch-key at home, and my servant had to let me in. If you want any corroborative evidence on the subject, you can ask him
My dear fellow, as if I cared! Let us go up to the drawing-room. No sherry, thank you, Mr. Chapman. Something has happened to you, Dorian. Tell me what it is. You are not yourself to-night
Don't mind me, Harry. I am irritable, and out of temper. I shall come round and see you to-morrow, or next day. Make my excuses to Lady Narborough. I shan't go upstairs. I shall go home. I must go home
All right, Dorian. I dare say I shall see you to-morrow at tea-time. The duchess is coming
I will try to be there, Harry
It is too far for me
Here is a sovereign for you
You shall have another if you drive fast
All right, sir
you will be there in an hour
To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul
To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul
Somewhere about here, sir, ain't it
This will do
He thinks he's got red ants on him
You here, Adrian
Where else should I be
None of the chaps will speak to me now
I thought you had left England
Darlington is not going to do anything. My brother paid the bill at last. George doesn't speak to me either. . . . I don't care
As long as one has this stuff, one doesn't want friends. I think I have had too many friends
I am going on to the other place
On the wharf
Yes
That mad-cat is sure to be there. They won't have her in this place now
I am sick of women who love one. Women who hate one are much more interesting. Besides, the stuff is better
Much the same
I like it better. Come and have something to drink. I must have something
I don't want anything
Never mind
We are very proud to-night
For God's sake don't talk to me
What do you want? Money? Here it is. Don't ever talk to me again
It's no use
I don't care to go back. What does it matter? I am quite happy here
You will write to me if you want anything, won't you
Perhaps
Good night, then
Good night
There goes the devil's bargain
Curse you
don't call me that
Prince Charming is what you like to be called, ain't it
What do you want
Keep quiet
If you stir, I shoot you
You are mad. What have I done to you
You wrecked the life of Sibyl Vane
and Sibyl Vane was my sister. She killed herself. I know it. Her death is at your door. I swore I would kill you in return. For years I have sought you. I had no clue, no trace. The two people who could have described you were dead. I knew nothing of you but the pet name she used to call you. I heard it to-night by chance. Make your peace with God, for to-night you are going to die
I never knew her
I never heard of her. You are mad
You had better confess your sin, for as sure as I am James Vane, you are going to die
Down on your knees
I give you one minute to make your peace -- no more. I go on board to-night for India, and I must do my job first. One minute. That's all
Stop
How long ago is it since your sister died? Quick, tell me
Eighteen years
Why do you ask me? What do years matter
Eighteen years
Eighteen years! Set me under the lamp and look at my face
My God! my God
and I would have murdered you
You have been on the brink of committing a terrible crime, my man
Let this be a warning to you not to take vengeance into your own hands
Forgive me, sir
I was deceived. A chance word I heard in that damned den set me on the wrong track
You had better go home and put that pistol away, or you may get into trouble
Why didn't you kill him
I knew you were following him when you rushed out from Daly's. You fool! You should have killed him. He has lots of money, and he's as bad as bad
He is not the man I am looking for
and I want no man's money. I want a man's life. The man whose life I want must be nearly forty now. This one is little more than a boy. Thank God, I have not got his blood upon my hands
Little more than a boy
Why, man, it's nigh on eighteen years since Prince Charming made me what I am
You lie
Before God I am telling the truth
Before God
Strike me dumb if it ain't so. He is the worst one that comes here. They say he has sold himself to the devil for a pretty face. It's nigh on eighteen years since I met him. He hasn't changed much since then. I have, though
You swear this
I swear it
But don't give me away to him
I am afraid of him. Let me have some money for my night's lodging
What are you two talking about
I hope Dorian has told you about my plan for rechristening everything, Gladys. It is a delightful idea
But I don't want to be rechristened, Harry
I am quite satisfied with my own name, and I am sure Mr. Gray should be satisfied with his
My dear Gladys, I would not alter either name for the world. They are both perfect. I was thinking chiefly of flowers. Yesterday I cut an orchid, for my button-hole. It was a marvellous spotted thing, as effective as the seven deadly sins. In a thoughtless moment I asked one of the gardeners what it was called. He told me it was a fine specimen of Robinsoniana, or something dreadful of that kind. It is a sad truth, but we have lost the faculty of giving lovely names to things. Names are everything. I never quarrel with actions. My one quarrel is with words. That is the reason I hate vulgar realism in literature. The man who could call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one. It is the only thing he is fit for
Then what should we call you, Harry
His name is Prince Paradox
I recognize him in a flash
I won't hear of it
From a label there is no escape! I refuse the title
Royalties may not abdicate
You wish me to defend my throne, then
Yes
I give the truths of to-morrow
I prefer the mistakes of to-day
You disarm me, Gladys
Of your shield, Harry, not of your spear
I never tilt against beauty
That is your error, Harry, believe me. You value beauty far too much
How can you say that? I admit that I think that it is better to be beautiful than to be good. But on the other hand, no one is more ready than I am to acknowledge that it is better to be good than to be ugly
Ugliness is one of the seven deadly sins, then
What becomes of your simile about the orchid
Ugliness is one of the seven deadly virtues, Gladys. You, as a good Tory, must not underrate them. Beer, the Bible, and the seven deadly virtues have made our England what she is
You don't like your country, then
I live in it
That you may censure it the better
Would you have me take the verdict of Europe on it
What do they say of us
That Tartuffe has emigrated to England and opened a shop
Is that yours, Harry
I give it to you
I could not use it. It is too true
You need not be afraid. Our countrymen never recognize a description
They are practical
They are more cunning than practical. When they make up their ledger, they balance stupidity by wealth, and vice by hypocrisy
Still, we have done great things
Great things have been thrust on us, Gladys
We have carried their burden
Only as far as the Stock Exchange
I believe in the race
It represents the survival of the pushing
It has development
Decay fascinates me more
What of art
It is a malady
Love
An illusion
Religion
The fashionable substitute for belief
You are a sceptic
Never! Scepticism is the beginning of faith
What are you
To define is to limit
Give me a clue
Threads snap. You would lose your way in the labyrinth
You bewilder me. Let us talk of some one else
Our host is a delightful topic. Years ago he was christened Prince Charming
Ah! don't remind me of that
Our host is rather horrid this evening
I believe he thinks that Monmouth married me on purely scientific principles as the best specimen he could find of a modern butterfly
Well, I hope he won't stick pins into you, Duchess
Oh! my maid does that already, Mr. Gray, when she is annoyed with me
And what does she get annoyed with you about, Duchess
For the most trivial things, Mr. Gray, I assure you. Usually because I come in at ten minutes to nine and tell her that I must be dressed by half-past eight
How unreasonable of her! You should give her warning
I daren't, Mr. Gray. Why, she invents hats for me. You remember the one I wore at Lady Hilstone's garden-party? You don't, but it is nice of you to pretend that you do. Well, she made if out of nothing. All good hats are made out of nothing
Like all good reputations, Gladys
Every effect that one produces gives one an enemy. To be popular one must be a mediocrity
Not with women
and women rule the world. I assure you we can't bear mediocrities. We women, as some one says, love with our ears, just as you men love with your eyes, if you ever love at all
It seems to me that we never do anything else
Ah! then, you never really love, Mr. Gray
My dear Gladys
How can you say that? Romance lives by repetition, and repetition converts an appetite into an art. Besides, each time that one loves is the only time one has ever loved. Difference of object does not alter singleness of passion. It merely intensifies it. We can have in life but one great experience at best, and the secret of life is to reproduce that experience as often as possible
Even when one has been wounded by it, Harry
Especially when one has been wounded by it
What do you say to that, Mr. Gray
I always agree with Harry, Duchess
Even when he is wrong
Harry is never wrong, Duchess
And does his philosophy make you happy
I have never searched for happiness. Who wants happiness? I have searched for pleasure
And found it, Mr. Gray
Often. Too often
I am searching for peace
and if I don't go and dress, I shall have none this evening
Let me get you some orchids, Duchess
You are flirting disgracefully with him
You had better take care. He is very fascinating
If he were not, there would be no battle
Greek meets Greek, then
I am on the side of the Trojans. They fought for a woman
They were defeated
There are worse things than capture
You gallop with a loose rein
Pace gives life
I shall write it in my diary to-night
What
That a burnt child loves the fire
I am not even singed. My wings are untouched
You use them for everything, except flight
Courage has passed from men to women. It is a new experience for us
You have a rival
Who
Lady Narborough
She perfectly adores him
You fill me with apprehension. The appeal to antiquity is fatal to us who are romanticists
Romanticists! You have all the methods of science
Men have educated us
But not explained you
Describe us as a sex
Sphinxes without secrets
How long Mr. Gray is
Let us go and help him. I have not yet told him the colour of my frock
Ah! you must suit your frock to his flowers, Gladys
That would be a premature surrender
Romantic art begins with its climax
I must keep an opportunity for retreat
In the Parthian manner
They found safety in the desert. I could not do that
Women are not always allowed a choice
What has happened
Oh! I remember. Am I safe here, Harry
My dear Dorian
you merely fainted. That was all. You must have overtired yourself. You had better not come down to dinner. I will take your place
No, I will come down
I would rather come down. I must not be alone
Have you had good sport, Geoffrey
Not very good, Dorian. I think most of the birds have gone to the open. I dare say it will be better after lunch, when we get to new ground
Don't shoot it, Geoffrey. Let it live
What nonsense, Dorian
Good heavens! I have hit a beater
What an ass the man was to get in front of the guns! Stop shooting there
A man is hurt
Where, sir? Where is he
Here
Why on earth don't you keep your men back? Spoiled my shooting for the day
Dorian
I had better tell them that the shooting is stopped for to-day. It would not look well to go on
I wish it were stopped for ever, Harry
The whole thing is hideous and cruel. Is the man
I am afraid so
He got the whole charge of shot in his chest. He must have died almost instantaneously. Come; let us go home
It is a bad omen, Harry, a very bad omen
What is
Oh! this accident, I suppose. My dear fellow, it can't be helped. It was the man's own fault. Why did he get in front of the guns? Besides, it is nothing to us. It is rather awkward for Geoffrey, of course. It does not do to pepper beaters. It makes people think that one is a wild shot. And Geoffrey is not; he shoots very straight. But there is no use talking about the matter
It is a bad omen, Harry. I feel as if something horrible were going to happen to some of us. To myself, perhaps
The only horrible thing in the world is ennui, Dorian. That is the one sin for which there is no forgiveness. But we are not likely to suffer from it unless these fellows keep chattering about this thing at dinner. I must tell them that the subject is to be tabooed. As for omens, there is no such thing as an omen. Destiny does not send us heralds. She is too wise or too cruel for that. Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian? You have everything in the world that a man can want. There is no one who would not be delighted to change places with you
There is no one with whom I would not change places, Harry. Don't laugh like that. I am telling you the truth. The wretched peasant who has just died is better off than I am. I have no terror of death. It is the coming of death that terrifies me. Its monstrous wings seem to wheel in the leaden air around me. Good heavens! don't you see a man moving behind the trees there, watching me, waiting for me
Yes
I see the gardener waiting for you. I suppose he wants to ask you what flowers you wish to have on the table to-night. How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow! You must come and see my doctor, when we get back to town
Her Grace told me to wait for an answer
Tell her Grace that I am coming in
How fond women are of doing dangerous things
It is one of the qualities in them that I admire most. A woman will flirt with anybody in the world as long as other people are looking on
How fond you are of saying dangerous things, Harry! In the present instance, you are quite astray. I like the duchess very much, but I don't love her
And the duchess loves you very much, but she likes you less, so you are excellently matched
You are talking scandal, Harry, and there is never any basis for scandal
The basis of every scandal is an immoral certainty
You would sacrifice anybody, Harry, for the sake of an epigram
The world goes to the altar of its own accord
I wish I could love
But I seem to have lost the passion and forgotten the desire. I am too much concentrated on myself. My own personality has become a burden to me. I want to escape, to go away, to forget. It was silly of me to come down here at all. I think I shall send a wire to Harvey to have the yacht got ready. On a yacht one is safe
Safe from what, Dorian? You are in some trouble. Why not tell me what it is? You know I would help you
I can't tell you, Harry
And I dare say it is only a fancy of mine. This unfortunate accident has upset me. I have a horrible presentiment that something of the kind may happen to me
What nonsense
I hope it is, but I can't help feeling it. Ah! here is the duchess, looking like Artemis in a tailor-made gown. You see we have come back, Duchess
I have heard all about it, Mr. Gray
Poor Geoffrey is terribly upset. And it seems that you asked him not to shoot the hare. How curious
Yes, it was very curious. I don't know what made me say it. Some whim, I suppose. It looked the loveliest of little live things. But I am sorry they told you about the man. It is a hideous subject
It is an annoying subject
It has no psychological value at all. Now if Geoffrey had done the thing on purpose, how interesting he would be! I should like to know some one who had committed a real murder
How horrid of you, Harry
Isn't it, Mr. Gray? Harry, Mr. Gray is ill again. He is going to faint
It is nothing, Duchess
my nerves are dreadfully out of order. That is all. I am afraid I walked too far this morning. I didn't hear what Harry said. Was it very bad? You must tell me some other time. I think I must go and lie down. You will excuse me, won't you
Are you very much in love with him
I wish I knew
Knowledge would be fatal. It is the uncertainty that charms one. A mist makes things wonderful
One may lose one's way
All ways end at the same point, my dear Gladys
What is that
Disillusion
It was my debut in life
It came to you crowned
I am tired of strawberry leaves
They become you
Only in public
You would miss them
I will not part with a petal
Monmouth has ears
Old age is dull of hearing
Has he never been jealous
I wish he had been
What are you looking for
The button from your foil
You have dropped it
I have still the mask
It makes your eyes lovelier
Send him in
I suppose you have come about the unfortunate accident of this morning, Thornton
Yes, sir
Was the poor fellow married? Had he any people dependent on him
If so, I should not like them to be left in want, and will send them any sum of money you may think necessary
We don't know who he is, sir. That is what I took the liberty of coming to you about
Don't know who he is
What do you mean? Wasn't he one of your men
No, sir. Never saw him before. Seems like a sailor, sir
A sailor
Did you say a sailor
Yes, sir. He looks as if he had been a sort of sailor; tattooed on both arms, and that kind of thing
Was there anything found on him
Anything that would tell his name
Some money, sir -- not much, and a six-shooter. There was no name of any kind. A decent-looking man, sir, but rough-like. A sort of sailor we think
Where is the body
Quick! I must see it at once
It is in an empty stable in the Home Farm, sir. The folk don't like to have that sort of thing in their houses. They say a corpse brings bad luck
The Home Farm! Go there at once and meet me. Tell one of the grooms to bring my horse round. No. Never mind. I'll go to the stables myself. It will save time
Take that thing off the face. I wish to see it
There is no use your telling me that you are going to be good
You are quite perfect. Pray, don't change
No, Harry, I have done too many dreadful things in my life. I am not going to do any more. I began my good actions yesterday
Where were you yesterday
In the country, Harry. I was staying at a little inn by myself
My dear boy
anybody can be good in the country. There are no temptations there. That is the reason why people who live out of town are so absolutely uncivilized. Civilization is not by any means an easy thing to attain to. There are only two ways by which man can reach it. One is by being cultured, the other by being corrupt. Country people have no opportunity of being either, so they stagnate
Culture and corruption
I have known something of both. It seems terrible to me now that they should ever be found together. For I have a new ideal, Harry. I am going to alter. I think I have altered
You have not yet told me what your good action was. Or did you say you had done more than one
I can tell you, Harry. It is not a story I could tell to any one else. I spared somebody. It sounds vain, but you understand what I mean. She was quite beautiful and wonderfully like Sibyl Vane. I think it was that which first attracted me to her. You remember Sibyl, don't you? How long ago that seems! Well, Hetty was not one of our own class, of course. She was simply a girl in a village. But I really loved her. I am quite sure that I loved her. All during this wonderful May that we have been having, I used to run down and see her two or three times a week. Yesterday she met me in a little orchard. The apple-blossoms kept tumbling down on her hair, and she was laughing. We were to have gone away together this morning at dawn. Suddenly I determined to leave her as flowerlike as I had found her
I should think the novelty of the emotion must have given you a thrill of real pleasure, Dorian
But I can finish your idyll for you. You gave her good advice and broke her heart. That was the beginning of your reformation
Harry, you are horrible! You mustn't say these dreadful things. Hetty's heart is not broken. Of course, she cried and all that. But there is no disgrace upon her. She can live, like Perdita, in her garden of mint and marigold
And weep over a faithless Florizel
My dear Dorian, you have the most curiously boyish moods. Do you think this girl will ever be really content now with any one of her own rank? I suppose she will be married some day to a rough carter or a grinning ploughman. Well, the fact of having met you, and loved you, will teach her to despise her husband, and she will be wretched. From a moral point of view, I cannot say that I think much of your great renunciation. Even as a beginning, it is poor. Besides, how do you know that Hetty isn't floating at the present moment in some starlit mill-pond, with lovely water-lilies round her, like Ophelia
I can't bear this, Harry! You mock at everything, and then suggest the most serious tragedies. I am sorry I told you now. I don't care what you say to me. I know I was right in acting as I did. Poor Hetty! As I rode past the farm this morning, I saw her white face at the window, like a spray of jasmine. Don't let us talk about it any more, and don't try to persuade me that the first good action I have done for years, the first little bit of self-sacrifice I have ever known, is really a sort of sin. I want to be better. I am going to be better. Tell me something about yourself. What is going on in town? I have not been to the club for days
The people are still discussing poor Basil's disappearance
I should have thought they had got tired of that by this time
My dear boy, they have only been talking about it for six weeks, and the British public are really not equal to the mental strain of having more than one topic every three months. They have been very fortunate lately, however. They have had my own divorce-case and Alan Campbell's suicide. Now they have got the mysterious disappearance of an artist. Scotland Yard still insists that the man in the grey ulster who left for Paris by the midnight train on the ninth of November was poor Basil, and the French police declare that Basil never arrived in Paris at all. I suppose in about a fortnight we shall be told that he has been seen in San Francisco. It is an odd thing, but every one who disappears is said to be seen at San Francisco. It must be a delightful city, and possess all the attractions of the next world
What do you think has happened to Basil
I have not the slightest idea. If Basil chooses to hide himself, it is no business of mine. If he is dead, I don't want to think about him. Death is the only thing that ever terrifies me. I hate it
Why
Because
one can survive everything nowadays except that. Death and vulgarity are the only two facts in the nineteenth century that one cannot explain away. Let us have our coffee in the music-room, Dorian. You must play Chopin to me. The man with whom my wife ran away played Chopin exquisitely. Poor Victoria! I was very fond of her. The house is rather lonely without her. Of course, married life is merely a habit, a bad habit. But then one regrets the loss even of one's worst habits. Perhaps one regrets them the most. They are such an essential part of one's personality
Harry, did it ever occur to you that Basil was murdered
Basil was very popular, and always wore a Waterbury watch. Why should he have been murdered? He was not clever enough to have enemies. Of course, he had a wonderful genius for painting. But a man can paint like Velasquez and yet be as dull as possible. Basil was really rather dull. He only interested me once, and that was when he told me, years ago, that he had a wild adoration for you and that you were the dominant motive of his art
I was very fond of Basil
But don't people say that he was murdered
Oh, some of the papers do. It does not seem to me to be at all probable. I know there are dreadful places in Paris, but Basil was not the sort of man to have gone to them. He had no curiosity. It was his chief defect
What would you say, Harry, if I told you that I had murdered Basil
I would say, my dear fellow, that you were posing for a character that doesn't suit you. All crime is vulgar, just as all vulgarity is crime. It is not in you, Dorian, to commit a murder. I am sorry if I hurt your vanity by saying so, but I assure you it is true. Crime belongs exclusively to the lower orders. I don't blame them in the smallest degree. I should fancy that crime was to them what art is to us, simply a method of procuring extraordinary sensations
A method of procuring sensations? Do you think, then, that a man who has once committed a murder could possibly do the same crime again? Don't tell me that
Oh! anything becomes a pleasure if one does it too often
That is one of the most important secrets of life. I should fancy, however, that murder is always a mistake. One should never do anything that one cannot talk about after dinner. But let us pass from poor Basil. I wish I could believe that he had come to such a really romantic end as you suggest, but I can't. I dare say he fell into the Seine off an omnibus and that the conductor hushed up the scandal. Yes: I should fancy that was his end. I see him lying now on his back under those dull-green waters, with the heavy barges floating over him and long weeds catching in his hair. Do you know, I don't think he would have done much more good work. During the last ten years his painting had gone off very much
Yes
his painting had quite gone off. It seemed to me to have lost something. It had lost an ideal. When you and he ceased to be great friends, he ceased to be a great artist. What was it separated you? I suppose he bored you. If so, he never forgave you. It's a habit bores have. By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he did of you? I don't think I have ever seen it since he finished it. Oh! I remember your telling me years ago that you had sent it down to Selby, and that it had got mislaid or stolen on the way. You never got it back? What a pity! it was really a masterpiece. I remember I wanted to buy it. I wish I had now. It belonged to Basil's best period. Since then, his work was that curious mixture of bad painting and good intentions that always entitles a man to be called a representative British artist. Did you advertise for it? You should
I forget
Like the painting of a sorrow, A face without a heart
If a man treats life artistically, his brain is his heart
Like the painting of a sorrow
a face without a heart
By the way, Dorian
what does it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose -- how does the quotation run?-- his own soul
Why do you ask me that, Harry
My dear fellow
I asked you because I thought you might be able to give me an answer. That is all. I was going through the park last Sunday, and close by the Marble Arch there stood a little crowd of shabby-looking people listening to some vulgar street-preacher. As I passed by, I heard the man yelling out that question to his audience. It struck me as being rather dramatic. London is very rich in curious effects of that kind. A wet Sunday, an uncouth Christian in a mackintosh, a ring of sickly white faces under a broken roof of dripping umbrellas, and a wonderful phrase flung into the air by shrill hysterical lips -- it was really very good in its way, quite a suggestion. I thought of telling the prophet that art had a soul, but that man had not. I am afraid, however, he would not have understood me
Don't, Harry. The soul is a terrible reality. It can be bought, and sold, and bartered away. It can be poisoned, or made perfect. There is a soul in each one of us. I know it
Do you feel quite sure of that, Dorian
Quite sure
Ah! then it must be an illusion. The things one feels absolutely certain about are never true. That is the fatality of faith, and the lesson of romance. How grave you are! Don't be so serious. What have you or I to do with the superstitions of our age? No: we have given up our belief in the soul. Play me something. Play me a nocturne, Dorian, and, as you play, tell me, in a low voice, how you have kept your youth. You must have some secret. I am only ten years older than you are, and I am wrinkled, and worn, and yellow. You are really wonderful, Dorian. You have never looked more charming than you do to-night. You remind me of the day I saw you first. You were rather cheeky, very shy, and absolutely extraordinary. You have changed, of course, but not in appearance. I wish you would tell me your secret. To get back my youth I would do anything in the world, except take exercise, get up early, or be respectable. Youth! There is nothing like it. It's absurd to talk of the ignorance of youth. The only people to whose opinions I listen now with any respect are people much younger than myself. They seem in front of me. Life has revealed to them her latest wonder. As for the aged, I always contradict the aged. I do it on principle. If you ask them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly give you the opinions current in 1820, when people wore high stocks, believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing. How lovely that thing you are playing is! I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca, with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against the panes? It is marvellously romantic. What a blessing it is that there is one art left to us that is not imitative! Don't stop. I want music to-night. It seems to me that you are the young Apollo and that I am Marsyas listening to you. I have sorrows, Dorian, of my own, that even you know nothing of. The tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young. I am amazed sometimes at my own sincerity. Ah, Dorian, how happy you are! What an exquisite life you have had! You have drunk deeply of everything. You have crushed the grapes against your palate. Nothing has been hidden from you. And it has all been to you no more than the sound of music. It has not marred you. You are still the same
I am not the same, Harry
Yes, you are the same. I wonder what the rest of your life will be. Don't spoil it by renunciations. At present you are a perfect type. Don't make yourself incomplete. You are quite flawless now. You need not shake your head: you know you are. Besides, Dorian, don't deceive yourself. Life is not governed by will or intention. Life is a question of nerves, and fibres, and slowly built-up cells in which thought hides itself and passion has its dreams. You may fancy yourself safe and think yourself strong. But a chance tone of colour in a room or a morning sky, a particular perfume that you had once loved and that brings subtle memories with it, a line from a forgotten poem that you had come across again, a cadence from a piece of music that you had ceased to play -- I tell you, Dorian, that it is on things like these that our lives depend. Browning writes about that somewhere; but our own senses will imagine them for us. There are moments when the odour of lilas blanc passes suddenly across me, and I have to live the strangest month of my life over again. I wish I could change places with you, Dorian. The world has cried out against us both, but it has always worshipped you. It always will worship you. You are the type of what the age is searching for, and what it is afraid it has found. I am so glad that you have never done anything, never carved a statue, or painted a picture, or produced anything outside of yourself! Life has been your art. You have set yourself to music. Your days are your sonnets
Yes, life has been exquisite
but I am not going to have the same life, Harry. And you must not say these extravagant things to me. You don't know everything about me. I think that if you did, even you would turn from me. You laugh. Don't laugh
Why have you stopped playing, Dorian? Go back and give me the nocturne over again. Look at that great, honey-coloured moon that hangs in the dusky air. She is waiting for you to charm her, and if you play she will come closer to the earth. You won't? Let us go to the club, then. It has been a charming evening, and we must end it charmingly. There is some one at White's who wants immensely to know you -- young Lord Poole, Bournemouth's eldest son. He has already copied your neckties, and has begged me to introduce him to you. He is quite delightful and rather reminds me of you
I hope not
But I am tired to-night, Harry. I shan't go to the club. It is nearly eleven, and I want to go to bed early
Do stay. You have never played so well as to-night. There was something in your touch that was wonderful. It had more expression than I had ever heard from it before
It is because I am going to be good
I am a little changed already
You cannot change to me, Dorian
You and I will always be friends
Yet you poisoned me with a book once. I should not forgive that. Harry, promise me that you will never lend that book to any one. It does harm
My dear boy, you are really beginning to moralize. You will soon be going about like the converted, and the revivalist, warning people against all the sins of which you have grown tired. You are much too delightful to do that. Besides, it is no use. You and I are what we are, and will be what we will be. As for being poisoned by a book, there is no such thing as that. Art has no influence upon action. It annihilates the desire to act. It is superbly sterile. The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame. That is all. But we won't discuss literature. Come round to-morrow. I am going to ride at eleven. We might go together, and I will take you to lunch afterwards with Lady Branksome. She is a charming woman, and wants to consult you about some tapestries she is thinking of buying. Mind you come. Or shall we lunch with our little duchess? She says she never sees you now. Perhaps you are tired of Gladys? I thought you would be. Her clever tongue gets on one's nerves. Well, in any case, be here at eleven
Must I really come, Harry
Certainly. The park is quite lovely now. I don't think there have been such lilacs since the year I met you
Very well. I shall be here at eleven
Good night, Harry
That is Dorian Gray
The world is changed because you are made of ivory and gold. The curves of your lips rewrite history
Whose house is that, Constable
Mr. Dorian Gray's, sir
</text>
