<text>
Poor Miss Taylor!-- I wish she were here again. What a pity it is that Mr. Weston ever thought of her
I cannot agree with you, papa; you know I cannot. Mr. Weston is such a good-humoured, pleasant, excellent man, that he thoroughly deserves a good wife;-- and you would not have had Miss Taylor live with us for ever, and bear all my odd humours, when she might have a house of her own
A house of her own!-- But where is the advantage of a house of her own? This is three times as large.-- And you have never any odd humours, my dear
How often we shall be going to see them, and they coming to see us!-- We shall be always meeting! _We_ must begin; we must go and pay wedding visit very soon
My dear, how am I to get so far? Randalls is such a distance. I could not walk half so far
No, papa, nobody thought of your walking. We must go in the carriage, to be sure
The carriage! But James will not like to put the horses to for such a little way;-- and where are the poor horses to be while we are paying our visit
They are to be put into Mr. Weston's stable, papa. You know we have settled all that already. We talked it all over with Mr. Weston last night. And as for James, you may be very sure he will always like going to Randalls, because of his daughter's being housemaid there. I only doubt whether he will ever take us anywhere else. That was your doing, papa. You got Hannah that good place. Nobody thought of Hannah till you mentioned her -- James is so obliged to you
I am very glad I did think of her. It was very lucky, for I would not have had poor James think himself slighted upon any account; and I am sure she will make a very good servant: she is a civil, pretty-spoken girl; I have a great opinion of her. Whenever I see her, she always curtseys and asks me how I do, in a very pretty manner; and when you have had her here to do needlework, I observe she always turns the lock of the door the right way and never bangs it. I am sure she will be an excellent servant; and it will be a great comfort to poor Miss Taylor to have somebody about her that she is used to see. Whenever James goes over to see his daughter, you know, she will be hearing of us. He will be able to tell her how we all are
It is very kind of you, Mr. Knightley, to come out at this late hour to call upon us. I am afraid you must have had a shocking walk
Not at all, sir. It is a beautiful moonlight night; and so mild that I must draw back from your great fire
But you must have found it very damp and dirty. I wish you may not catch cold
Dirty, sir! Look at my shoes. Not a speck on them
Well! that is quite surprising, for we have had a vast deal of rain here. It rained dreadfully hard for half an hour while we were at breakfast. I wanted them to put off the wedding
By the bye -- I have not wished you joy. Being pretty well aware of what sort of joy you must both be feeling, I have been in no hurry with my congratulations; but I hope it all went off tolerably well. How did you all behave? Who cried most
Ah! poor Miss Taylor! 'Tis a sad business
Poor Mr. and Miss Woodhouse, if you please; but I cannot possibly say &bquo;poor Miss Taylor.' I have a great regard for you and Emma; but when it comes to the question of dependence or independence!-- At any rate, it must be better to have only one to please than two
Especially when _one_ of those two is such a fanciful, troublesome creature
That is what you have in your head, I know -- and what you would certainly say if my father were not by
I believe it is very true, my dear, indeed
I am afraid I am sometimes very fanciful and troublesome
My dearest papa! You do not think I could mean _you_, or suppose Mr. Knightley to mean _you_. What a horrible idea! Oh no! I meant only myself. Mr. Knightley loves to find fault with me, you know -- in a joke -- it is all a joke. We always say what we like to one another
Emma knows I never flatter her
but I meant no reflection on any body. Miss Taylor has been used to have two persons to please; she will now have but one. The chances are that she must be a gainer
Well
you want to hear about the wedding; and I shall be happy to tell you, for we all behaved charmingly. Every body was punctual, every body in their best looks: not a tear, and hardly a long face to be seen. Oh no; we all felt that we were going to be only half a mile apart, and were sure of meeting every day
Dear Emma bears every thing so well
But, Mr. Knightley, she is really very sorry to lose poor Miss Taylor, and I am sure she _will_ miss her more than she thinks for
It is impossible that Emma should not miss such a companion
We should not like her so well as we do, sir, if we could suppose it; but she knows how much the marriage is to Miss Taylor's advantage; she knows how very acceptable it must be, at Miss Taylor's time of life, to be settled in a home of her own, and how important to her to be secure of a comfortable provision, and therefore cannot allow herself to feel so much pain as pleasure. Every friend of Miss Taylor must be glad to have her so happily married
And you have forgotten one matter of joy to me
and a very considerable one -- that I made the match myself. I made the match, you know, four years ago; and to have it take place, and be proved in the right, when so many people said Mr. Weston would never marry again, may comfort me for any thing
Ah! my dear, I wish you would not make matches and foretell things, for whatever you say always comes to pass. Pray do not make any more matches
I promise you to make none for myself, papa; but I must, indeed, for other people. It is the greatest amusement in the world! And after such success, you know!-- Every body said that Mr. Weston would never marry again. Oh dear, no! Mr. Weston, who had been a widower so long, and who seemed so perfectly comfortable without a wife, so constantly occupied either in his business in town or among his friends here, always acceptable wherever he went, always cheerful -- Mr. Weston need not spend a single evening in the year alone if he did not like it. Oh no! Mr. Weston certainly would never marry again. Some people even talked of a promise to his wife on her deathbed, and others of the son and the uncle not letting him. All manner of solemn nonsense was talked on the subject, but I believed none of it. "Ever since the day -- about four years ago -- that Miss Taylor and I met with him in Broadway Lane, when, because it began to drizzle, he darted away with so much gallantry, and borrowed two umbrellas for us from Farmer Mitchell's, I made up my mind on the subject. I planned the match from that hour; and when such success has blessed me in this instance, dear papa, you cannot think that I shall leave off match-making
I do not understand what you mean by &bquo;success
Success supposes endeavour. Your time has been properly and delicately spent, if you have been endeavouring for the last four years to bring about this marriage. A worthy employment for a young lady's mind! But if, which I rather imagine, your making the match, as you call it, means only your planning it, your saying to yourself one idle day, &bquo;I think it would be a very good thing for Miss Taylor if Mr. Weston were to marry her,' and saying it again to yourself every now and then afterwards, why do you talk of success? Where is your merit? What are you proud of? You made a lucky guess; and _that_ is all that can be said
And have you never known the pleasure and triumph of a lucky guess?-- I pity you.-- I thought you cleverer -- for, depend upon it a lucky guess is never merely luck. There is always some talent in it. And as to my poor word &bquo;success,' which you quarrel with, I do not know that I am so entirely without any claim to it. You have drawn two pretty pictures; but I think there may be a third -- a something between the do-nothing and the do-all. If I had not promoted Mr. Weston's visits here, and given many little encouragements, and smoothed many little matters, it might not have come to any thing after all. I think you must know Hartfield enough to comprehend that
A straightforward, open-hearted man like Weston, and a rational, unaffected woman like Miss Taylor, may be safely left to manage their own concerns. You are more likely to have done harm to yourself, than good to them, by interference
Emma never thinks of herself, if she can do good to others
But, my dear, pray do not make any more matches; they are silly things, and break up one's family circle grievously
Only one more, papa; only for Mr. Elton. Poor Mr. Elton! You like Mr. Elton, papa,-- I must look about for a wife for him. There is nobody in Highbury who deserves him -- and he has been here a whole year, and has fitted up his house so comfortably, that it would be a shame to have him single any longer -- and I thought when he was joining their hands to-day, he looked so very much as if he would like to have the same kind office done for him! I think very well of Mr. Elton, and this is the only way I have of doing him a service
Mr. Elton is a very pretty young man, to be sure, and a very good young man, and I have a great regard for him. But if you want to shew him any attention, my dear, ask him to come and dine with us some day. That will be a much better thing. I dare say Mr. Knightley will be so kind as to meet him
With a great deal of pleasure, sir, at any time
and I agree with you entirely, that it will be a much better thing. Invite him to dinner, Emma, and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken, but leave him to chuse his own wife. Depend upon it, a man of six or seven-and-twenty can take care of himself
I suppose you have heard of the handsome letter Mr. Frank Churchill has written to Mrs. Weston? I understand it was a very handsome letter, indeed. Mr. Woodhouse told me of it. Mr. Woodhouse saw the letter, and he says he never saw such a handsome letter in his life
Ah, poor Miss Taylor! She would be very glad to stay
Mrs. Bates, let me propose your venturing on one of these eggs. An egg boiled very soft is not unwholesome. Serle understands boiling an egg better than any body. I would not recommend an egg boiled by any body else; but you need not be afraid, they are very small, you see -- one of our small eggs will not hurt you. Miss Bates, let Emma help you to a _little_ bit of tart -- a _very_ little bit. Ours are all apple-tarts. You need not be afraid of unwholesome preserves here. I do not advise the custard. Mrs. Goddard, what say you to _half_ a glass of wine? A _small_ half-glass, put into a tumbler of water? I do not think it could disagree with you
_two_ parlours, two very good parlours, indeed; one of them quite as large as Mrs. Goddard's drawing-room; and of her having an upper maid who had lived five-and-twenty years with her; and of their having eight cows, two of them Alderneys, and one a little Welch cow, a very pretty little Welch cow indeed; and of Mrs. Martin's saying as she was so fond of it, it should be called _her_ cow; and of their having a very handsome summer-house in their garden, where some day next year they were all to drink tea:-- a very handsome summer-house, large enough to hold a dozen people
Well done, Mrs. Martin
You know what you are about
And when she had come away, Mrs. Martin was so very kind as to send Mrs. Goddard a beautiful goose -- the finest goose Mrs. Goddard had ever seen. Mrs. Goddard had dressed it on a Sunday, and asked all the three teachers, Miss Nash, and Miss Prince, and Miss Richardson, to sup with her
Mr. Martin, I suppose, is not a man of information beyond the line of his own business? He does not read
Oh yes!-- that is, no -- I do not know -- but I believe he has read a good deal -- but not what you would think any thing of. He reads the Agricultural Reports, and some other books that lay in one of the window seats -- but he reads all _them_ to himself. But sometimes of an evening, before we went to cards, he would read something aloud out of the Elegant Extracts, very entertaining. And I know he has read the Vicar of Wakefield. He never read the Romance of the Forest, nor The Children of the Abbey. He had never heard of such books before I mentioned them, but he is determined to get them now as soon as ever he can
What sort of looking man is Mr. Martin
Oh! not handsome -- not at all handsome. I thought him very plain at first, but I do not think him so plain now. One does not, you know, after a time. But did you never see him? He is in Highbury every now and then, and he is sure to ride through every week in his way to Kingston. He has passed you very often
That may be, and I may have seen him fifty times, but without having any idea of his name. A young farmer, whether on horseback or on foot, is the very last sort of person to raise my curiosity. The yeomanry are precisely the order of people with whom I feel I can have nothing to do. A degree or two lower, and a creditable appearance might interest me; I might hope to be useful to their families in some way or other. But a farmer can need none of my help, and is, therefore, in one sense, as much above my notice as in every other he is below it
To be sure. Oh yes! It is not likely you should ever have observed him; but he knows you very well indeed -- I mean by sight
I have no doubt of his being a very respectable young man. I know, indeed, that he is so, and, as such, wish him well. What do you imagine his age to be
He was four-and-twenty the 8th of last June, and my birthday is the 23rd just a fortnight and a day's difference -- which is very odd
Only four-and-twenty. That is too young to settle. His mother is perfectly right not to be in a hurry. They seem very comfortable as they are, and if she were to take any pains to marry him, she would probably repent it. Six years hence, if he could meet with a good sort of young woman in the same rank as his own, with a little money, it might be very desirable
Six years hence! Dear Miss Woodhouse, he would be thirty years old
Well, and that is as early as most men can afford to marry, who are not born to an independence. Mr. Martin, I imagine, has his fortune entirely to make -- cannot be at all beforehand with the world. Whatever money he might come into when his father died, whatever his share of the family property, it is, I dare say, all afloat, all employed in his stock, and so forth; and though, with diligence and good luck, he may be rich in time, it is next to impossible that he should have realised any thing yet
To be sure, so it is. But they live very comfortably. They have no indoors man, else they do not want for any thing; and Mrs. Martin talks of taking a boy another year
I wish you may not get into a scrape, Harriet, whenever he does marry;-- I mean, as to being acquainted with his wife -- for though his sisters, from a superior education, are not to be altogether objected to, it does not follow that he might marry any body at all fit for you to notice. The misfortune of your birth ought to make you particularly careful as to your associates. There can be no doubt of your being a gentleman's daughter, and you must support your claim to that station by every thing within your own power, or there will be plenty of people who would take pleasure in degrading you
Yes, to be sure, I suppose there are. But while I visit at Hartfield, and you are so kind to me, Miss Woodhouse, I am not afraid of what any body can do
You understand the force of influence pretty well, Harriet; but I would have you so firmly established in good society, as to be independent even of Hartfield and Miss Woodhouse. I want to see you permanently well connected, and to that end it will be advisable to have as few odd acquaintance as may be; and, therefore, I say that if you should still be in this country when Mr. Martin marries, I wish you may not be drawn in by your intimacy with the sisters, to be acquainted with the wife, who will probably be some mere farmer's daughter, without education
To be sure. Yes. Not that I think Mr. Martin would ever marry any body but what had had some education -- and been very well brought up. However, I do not mean to set up my opinion against your's -- and I am sure I shall not wish for the acquaintance of his wife. I shall always have a great regard for the Miss Martins, especially Elizabeth, and should be very sorry to give them up, for they are quite as well educated as me. But if he marries a very ignorant, vulgar woman, certainly I had better not visit her, if I can help it
Only think of our happening to meet him!-- How very odd! It was quite a chance, he said, that he had not gone round by Randalls. He did not think we ever walked this road. He thought we walked towards Randalls most days. He has not been able to get the Romance of the Forest yet. He was so busy the last time he was at Kingston that he quite forgot it, but he goes again to-morrow. So very odd we should happen to meet! Well, Miss Woodhouse, is he like what you expected? What do you think of him? Do you think him so very plain
He is very plain, undoubtedly -- remarkably plain:-- but that is nothing compared with his entire want of gentility. I had no right to expect much, and I did not expect much; but I had no idea that he could be so very clownish, so totally without air. I had imagined him, I confess, a degree or two nearer gentility
To be sure
he is not so genteel as real gentlemen
I think, Harriet, since your acquaintance with us, you have been repeatedly in the company of some such very real gentlemen, that you must yourself be struck with the difference in Mr. Martin. At Hartfield, you have had very good specimens of well educated, well bred men. I should be surprized if, after seeing them, you could be in company with Mr. Martin again without perceiving him to be a very inferior creature -- and rather wondering at yourself for having ever thought him at all agreeable before. Do not you begin to feel that now? Were not you struck? I am sure you must have been struck by his awkward look and abrupt manner, and the uncouthness of a voice which I heard to be wholly unmodulated as I stood here
Certainly, he is not like Mr. Knightley. He has not such a fine air and way of walking as Mr. Knightley. I see the difference plain enough. But Mr. Knightley is so very fine a man
Mr. Knightley's air is so remarkably good that it is not fair to compare Mr. Martin with _him_. You might not see one in a hundred with _gentleman_ so plainly written as in Mr. Knightley. But he is not the only gentleman you have been lately used to. What say you to Mr. Weston and Mr. Elton? Compare Mr. Martin with either of _them_. Compare their manner of carrying themselves; of walking; of speaking; of being silent. You must see the difference
Oh yes!-- there is a great difference. But Mr. Weston is almost an old man. Mr. Weston must be between forty and fifty
Which makes his good manners the more valuable. The older a person grows, Harriet, the more important it is that their manners should not be bad; the more glaring and disgusting any loudness, or coarseness, or awkwardness becomes. What is passable in youth is detestable in later age. Mr. Martin is now awkward and abrupt; what will he be at Mr. Weston's time of life
There is no saying, indeed
But there may be pretty good guessing. He will be a completely gross, vulgar farmer, totally inattentive to appearances, and thinking of nothing but profit and loss
Will he, indeed? That will be very bad
How much his business engrosses him already is very plain from the circumstance of his forgetting to inquire for the book you recommended. He was a great deal too full of the market to think of any thing else -- which is just as it should be, for a thriving man. What has he to do with books? And I have no doubt that he _will_ thrive, and be a very rich man in time -- and his being illiterate and coarse need not disturb _us_
I wonder he did not remember the book
In one respect, perhaps, Mr. Elton's manners are superior to Mr. Knightley's or Mr. Weston's. They have more gentleness. They might be more safely held up as a pattern. There is an openness, a quickness, almost a bluntness in Mr. Weston, which every body likes in _him_, because there is so much good-humour with it -- but that would not do to be copied. Neither would Mr. Knightley's downright, decided, commanding sort of manner, though it suits _him_ very well; his figure, and look, and situation in life seem to allow it; but if any young man were to set about copying him, he would not be sufferable. On the contrary, I think a young man might be very safely recommended to take Mr. Elton as a model. Mr. Elton is good-humoured, cheerful, obliging, and gentle. He seems to me to be grown particularly gentle of late. I do not know whether he has any design of ingratiating himself with either of us, Harriet, by additional softness, but it strikes me that his manners are softer than they used to be. If he means any thing, it must be to please you. Did not I tell you what he said of you the other day
I do not know what your opinion may be, Mrs. Weston
of this great intimacy between Emma and Harriet Smith, but I think it a bad thing
A bad thing! Do you really think it a bad thing?-- why so
I think they will neither of them do the other any good
You surprize me! Emma must do Harriet good: and by supplying her with a new object of interest, Harriet may be said to do Emma good. I have been seeing their intimacy with the greatest pleasure. How very differently we feel!-- Not think they will do each other any good! This will certainly be the beginning of one of our quarrels about Emma, Mr. Knightley
Perhaps you think I am come on purpose to quarrel with you, knowing Weston to be out, and that you must still fight your own battle
Mr. Weston would undoubtedly support me, if he were here, for he thinks exactly as I do on the subject. We were speaking of it only yesterday, and agreeing how fortunate it was for Emma, that there should be such a girl in Highbury for her to associate with. Mr. Knightley, I shall not allow you to be a fair judge in this case. You are so much used to live alone, that you do not know the value of a companion; and, perhaps no man can be a good judge of the comfort a woman feels in the society of one of her own sex, after being used to it all her life. I can imagine your objection to Harriet Smith. She is not the superior young woman which Emma's friend ought to be. But on the other hand, as Emma wants to see her better informed, it will be an inducement to her to read more herself. They will read together. She means it, I know
Emma has been meaning to read more ever since she was twelve years old. I have seen a great many lists of her drawing-up at various times of books that she meant to read regularly through -- and very good lists they were -- very well chosen, and very neatly arranged -- sometimes alphabetically, and sometimes by some other rule. The list she drew up when only fourteen -- I remember thinking it did her judgment so much credit, that I preserved it some time; and I dare say she may have made out a very good list now. But I have done with expecting any course of steady reading from Emma. She will never submit to any thing requiring industry and patience, and a subjection of the fancy to the understanding. Where Miss Taylor failed to stimulate, I may safely affirm that Harriet Smith will do nothing.-- You never could persuade her to read half so much as you wished.-- You know you could not
I dare say
that I thought so _then_;-- but since we have parted, I can never remember Emma's omitting to do any thing I wished
There is hardly any desiring to refresh such a memory as _that_
But I
who have had no such charm thrown over my senses, must still see, hear, and remember. Emma is spoiled by being the cleverest of her family. At ten years old, she had the misfortune of being able to answer questions which puzzled her sister at seventeen. She was always quick and assured: Isabella slow and diffident. And ever since she was twelve, Emma has been mistress of the house and of you all. In her mother she lost the only person able to cope with her. She inherits her mother's talents, and must have been under subjection to her
I should have been sorry, Mr. Knightley, to be dependent on _your_ recommendation, had I quitted Mr. Woodhouse's family and wanted another situation; I do not think you would have spoken a good word for me to any body. I am sure you always thought me unfit for the office I held
Yes
You are better placed _here_; very fit for a wife, but not at all for a governess. But you were preparing yourself to be an excellent wife all the time you were at Hartfield. You might not give Emma such a complete education as your powers would seem to promise; but you were receiving a very good education from _her_, on the very material matrimonial point of submitting your own will, and doing as you were bid; and if Weston had asked me to recommend him a wife, I should certainly have named Miss Taylor
Thank you. There will be very little merit in making a good wife to such a man as Mr. Weston
Why, to own the truth, I am afraid you are rather thrown away, and that with every disposition to bear, there will be nothing to be borne. We will not despair, however. Weston may grow cross from the wantonness of comfort, or his son may plague him
I hope not _that_.-- It is not likely. No, Mr. Knightley, do not foretell vexation from that quarter
Not I, indeed. I only name possibilities. I do not pretend to Emma's genius for foretelling and guessing. I hope, with all my heart, the young man may be a Weston in merit, and a Churchill in fortune.-- But Harriet Smith -- I have not half done about Harriet Smith. I think her the very worst sort of companion that Emma could possibly have. She knows nothing herself, and looks upon Emma as knowing every thing. She is a flatterer in all her ways; and so much the worse, because undesigned. Her ignorance is hourly flattery. How can Emma imagine she has any thing to learn herself, while Harriet is presenting such a delightful inferiority? And as for Harriet, I will venture to say that _she_ cannot gain by the acquaintance. Hartfield will only put her out of conceit with all the other places she belongs to. She will grow just refined enough to be uncomfortable with those among whom birth and circumstances have placed her home. I am much mistaken if Emma's doctrines give any strength of mind, or tend at all to make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties of her situation in life.-- They only give a little polish
I either depend more upon Emma's good sense than you do, or am more anxious for her present comfort; for I cannot lament the acquaintance. How well she looked last night
Oh! you would rather talk of her person than her mind, would you? Very well; I shall not attempt to deny Emma's being pretty
Pretty! say beautiful rather. Can you imagine any thing nearer perfect beauty than Emma altogether -- face and figure
I do not know what I could imagine, but I confess that I have seldom seen a face or figure more pleasing to me than hers. But I am a partial old friend
Such an eye!-- the true hazle eye -- and so brilliant! regular features, open countenance, with a complexion! oh! what a bloom of full health, and such a pretty height and size; such a firm and upright figure! There is health, not merely in her bloom, but in her air, her head, her glance. One hears sometimes of a child being &bquo;the picture of health;' now, Emma always gives me the idea of being the complete picture of grown-up health. She is loveliness itself. Mr. Knightley, is not she
I have not a fault to find with her person
I think her all you describe. I love to look at her; and I will add this praise, that I do not think her personally vain. Considering how very handsome she is, she appears to be little occupied with it; her vanity lies another way. Mrs. Weston, I am not to be talked out of my dislike of Harriet Smith, or my dread of its doing them both harm
And I, Mr. Knightley, am equally stout in my confidence of its not doing them any harm. With all dear Emma's little faults, she is an excellent creature. Where shall we see a better daughter, or a kinder sister, or a truer friend? No, no; she has qualities which may be trusted; she will never lead any one really wrong; she will make no lasting blunder; where Emma errs once, she is in the right a hundred times
Very well; I will not plague you any more. Emma shall be an angel, and I will keep my spleen to myself till Christmas brings John and Isabella. John loves Emma with a reasonable and therefore not a blind affection, and Isabella always thinks as he does; except when he is not quite frightened enough about the children. I am sure of having their opinions with me
I know that you all love her really too well to be unjust or unkind; but excuse me, Mr. Knightley, if I take the liberty (I consider myself, you know, as having somewhat of the privilege of speech that Emma's mother might have had) the liberty of hinting that I do not think any possible good can arise from Harriet Smith's intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you. Pray excuse me; but supposing any little inconvenience may be apprehended from the intimacy, it cannot be expected that Emma, accountable to nobody but her father, who perfectly approves the acquaintance, should put an end to it, so long as it is a source of pleasure to herself. It has been so many years my province to give advice, that you cannot be surprized, Mr. Knightley, at this little remains of office
Not at all
I am much obliged to you for it. It is very good advice, and it shall have a better fate than your advice has often found; for it shall be attended to
Mrs. John Knightley is easily alarmed, and might be made unhappy about her sister
Be satisfied
I will not raise any outcry. I will keep my ill-humour to myself. I have a very sincere interest in Emma. Isabella does not seem more my sister; has never excited a greater interest; perhaps hardly so great. There is an anxiety, a curiosity in what one feels for Emma. I wonder what will become of her
So do I
very much
She always declares she will never marry, which, of course, means just nothing at all. But I have no idea that she has yet ever seen a man she cared for. It would not be a bad thing for her to be very much in love with a proper object. I should like to see Emma in love, and in some doubt of a return; it would do her good. But there is nobody hereabouts to attach her; and she goes so seldom from home
There does, indeed, seem as little to tempt her to break her resolution at present
as can well be; and while she is so happy at Hartfield, I cannot wish her to be forming any attachment which would be creating such difficulties on poor Mr. Woodhouse's account. I do not recommend matrimony at present to Emma, though I mean no slight to the state, I assure you
What does Weston think of the weather; shall we have rain
You have given Miss Smith all that she required
you have made her graceful and easy. She was a beautiful creature when she came to you, but, in my opinion, the attractions you have added are infinitely superior to what she received from nature
I am glad you think I have been useful to her; but Harriet only wanted drawing out, and receiving a few, very few hints. She had all the natural grace of sweetness of temper and artlessness in herself. I have done very little
If it were admissible to contradict a lady
I have perhaps given her a little more decision of character, have taught her to think on points which had not fallen in her way before
Exactly so; that is what principally strikes me. So much superadded decision of character! Skilful has been the hand
Great has been the pleasure, I am sure. I never met with a disposition more truly amiable
I have no doubt of it
Did you ever have your likeness taken, Harriet
did you ever sit for your picture
Oh! dear, no, never
What an exquisite possession a good picture of her would be! I would give any money for it. I almost long to attempt her likeness myself. You do not know it I dare say, but two or three years ago I had a great passion for taking likenesses, and attempted several of my friends, and was thought to have a tolerable eye in general. But from one cause or another, I gave it up in disgust. But really, I could almost venture, if Harriet would sit to me. It would be such a delight to have her picture
Let me entreat you
it would indeed be a delight! Let me entreat you, Miss Woodhouse, to exercise so charming a talent in favour of your friend. I know what your drawings are. How could you suppose me ignorant? Is not this room rich in specimens of your landscapes and flowers; and has not Mrs. Weston some inimitable figure-pieces in her drawing-room, at Randalls
Well, if you give me such kind encouragement, Mr. Elton, I believe I shall try what I can do. Harriet's features are very delicate, which makes a likeness difficult; and yet there is a peculiarity in the shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth which one ought to catch
Exactly so -- The shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth -- I have not a doubt of your success. Pray, pray attempt it. As you will do it, it will indeed, to use your own words, be an exquisite possession
But I am afraid, Mr. Elton, Harriet will not like to sit. She thinks so little of her own beauty. Did not you observe her manner of answering me? How completely it meant, &bquo;why should my picture be drawn
Oh! yes, I observed it, I assure you. It was not lost on me. But still I cannot imagine she would not be persuaded
No great variety of faces for you
I had only my own family to study from. There is my father -- another of my father -- but the idea of sitting for his picture made him so nervous, that I could only take him by stealth; neither of them very like therefore. Mrs. Weston again, and again, and again, you see. Dear Mrs. Weston! always my kindest friend on every occasion. She would sit whenever I asked her. There is my sister; and really quite her own little elegant figure!-- and the face not unlike. I should have made a good likeness of her, if she would have sat longer, but she was in such a hurry to have me draw her four children that she would not be quiet. Then, here come all my attempts at three of those four children;-- there they are, Henry and John and Bella, from one end of the sheet to the other, and any one of them might do for any one of the rest. She was so eager to have them drawn that I could not refuse; but there is no making children of three or four years old stand still you know; nor can it be very easy to take any likeness of them, beyond the air and complexion, unless they are coarser featured than any of mama's children ever were. Here is my sketch of the fourth, who was a baby. I took him as he was sleeping on the sofa, and it is as strong a likeness of his cockade as you would wish to see. He had nestled down his head most conveniently. That's very like. I am rather proud of little George. The corner of the sofa is very good. Then here is my last
my last and my best -- my brother, Mr. John Knightley.-- This did not want much of being finished, when I put it away in a pet, and vowed I would never take another likeness. I could not help being provoked; for after all my pains, and when I had really made a very good likeness of it --(Mrs. Weston and I were quite agreed in thinking it _very_ like)-- only too handsome -- too flattering -- but that was a fault on the right side -- after all this, came poor dear Isabella's cold approbation of
No husbands and wives in the case at present indeed, as you observe. Exactly so. No husbands and wives
If he would be so good as to read to them, it would be a kindness indeed! It would amuse away the difficulties of her part, and lessen the irksomeness of Miss Smith's
By all means. We shall be most happy to consider you as one of the party
Miss Woodhouse has given her friend the only beauty she wanted
The expression of the eye is most correct, but Miss Smith has not those eyebrows and eyelashes. It is the fault of her face that she has them not
Do you think so
I cannot agree with you. It appears to me a most perfect resemblance in every feature. I never saw such a likeness in my life. We must allow for the effect of shade, you know
You have made her too tall, Emma
Oh no! certainly not too tall; not in the least too tall. Consider, she is sitting down -- which naturally presents a different -- which in short gives exactly the idea -- and the proportions must be preserved, you know. Proportions, fore-shortening.-- Oh no! it gives one exactly the idea of such a height as Miss Smith's. Exactly so indeed
It is very pretty
So prettily done! Just as your drawings always are, my dear. I do not know any body who draws so well as you do. The only thing I do not thoroughly like is, that she seems to be sitting out of doors, with only a little shawl over her shoulders -- and it makes one think she must catch cold
But, my dear papa, it is supposed to be summer; a warm day in summer. Look at the tree
But it is never safe to sit out of doors, my dear
You, sir, may say any thing
but I must confess that I regard it as a most happy thought, the placing of Miss Smith out of doors; and the tree is touched with such inimitable spirit! Any other situation would have been much less in character. The naivete of Miss Smith's manners -- and altogether -- Oh, it is most admirable! I cannot keep my eyes from it. I never saw such a likeness
Might he be trusted with the commission, what infinite pleasure should he have in executing it! he could ride to London at any time. It was impossible to say how much he should be gratified by being employed on such an errand
He was too good!-- she could not endure the thought!-- she would not give him such a troublesome office for the world
What a precious deposit
This man is almost too gallant to be in love
I should say so, but that I suppose there may be a hundred different ways of being in love. He is an excellent young man, and will suit Harriet exactly; it will be an &bquo;Exactly so,' as he says himself; but he does sigh and languish, and study for compliments rather more than I could endure as a principal. I come in for a pretty good share as a second. But it is his gratitude on Harriet's account
Who could have thought it? She was so surprized she did not know what to do. Yes, quite a proposal of marriage; and a very good letter, at least she thought so. And he wrote as if he really loved her very much -- but she did not know -- and so, she was come as fast as she could to ask Miss Woodhouse what she should do
Upon my word
the young man is determined not to lose any thing for want of asking. He will connect himself well if he can
Will you read the letter
Pray do. I'd rather you would
Well, well
Is it a good letter? or is it too short
Yes, indeed, a very good letter
so good a letter, Harriet, that every thing considered, I think one of his sisters must have helped him. I can hardly imagine the young man whom I saw talking with you the other day could express himself so well, if left quite to his own powers, and yet it is not the style of a woman; no, certainly, it is too strong and concise; not diffuse enough for a woman. No doubt he is a sensible man, and I suppose may have a natural talent for -- thinks strongly and clearly -- and when he takes a pen in hand, his thoughts naturally find proper words. It is so with some men. Yes, I understand the sort of mind. Vigorous, decided, with sentiments to a certain point, not coarse. A better written letter, Harriet (returning it,) than I had expected
Well
well -- and -- and what shall I do
What shall you do! In what respect? Do you mean with regard to this letter
Yes
But what are you in doubt of? You must answer it of course -- and speedily
Yes. But what shall I say? Dear Miss Woodhouse, do advise me
Oh no, no! the letter had much better be all your own. You will express yourself very properly, I am sure. There is no danger of your not being intelligible, which is the first thing. Your meaning must be unequivocal; no doubts or demurs: and such expressions of gratitude and concern for the pain you are inflicting as propriety requires, will present themselves unbidden to _your_ mind, I am persuaded. You need not be prompted to write with the appearance of sorrow for his disappointment
You think I ought to refuse him then
Ought to refuse him! My dear Harriet, what do you mean? Are you in any doubt as to that? I thought -- but I beg your pardon, perhaps I have been under a mistake. I certainly have been misunderstanding you, if you feel in doubt as to the _purport_ of your answer. I had imagined you were consulting me only as to the wording of it
You mean to return a favourable answer, I collect
No, I do not; that is, I do not mean -- What shall I do? What would you advise me to do? Pray, dear Miss Woodhouse, tell me what I ought to do
I shall not give you any advice, Harriet. I will have nothing to do with it. This is a point which you must settle with your feelings
I had no notion that he liked me so very much
I lay it down as a general rule, Harriet, that if a woman _doubts_ as to whether she should accept a man or not, she certainly ought to refuse him. If she can hesitate as to &bquo;Yes,' she ought to say &bquo;No' directly. It is not a state to be safely entered into with doubtful feelings, with half a heart. I thought it my duty as a friend, and older than yourself, to say thus much to you. But do not imagine that I want to influence you
Oh! no, I am sure you are a great deal too kind to -- but if you would just advise me what I had best do -- No, no, I do not mean that -- As you say, one's mind ought to be quite made up -- One should not be hesitating -- It is a very serious thing.-- It will be safer to say &bquo;No,' perhaps.-- Do you think I had better say &bquo;No
Not for the world
would I advise you either way. You must be the best judge of your own happiness. If you prefer Mr. Martin to every other person; if you think him the most agreeable man you have ever been in company with, why should you hesitate? You blush, Harriet.-- Does any body else occur to you at this moment under such a definition? Harriet, Harriet, do not deceive yourself; do not be run away with by gratitude and compassion. At this moment whom are you thinking of
Miss Woodhouse, as you will not give me your opinion, I must do as well as I can by myself; and I have now quite determined, and really almost made up my mind -- to refuse Mr. Martin. Do you think I am right
Perfectly, perfectly right, my dearest Harriet; you are doing just what you ought. While you were at all in suspense I kept my feelings to myself, but now that you are so completely decided I have no hesitation in approving. Dear Harriet, I give myself joy of this. It would have grieved me to lose your acquaintance, which must have been the consequence of your marrying Mr. Martin. While you were in the smallest degree wavering, I said nothing about it, because I would not influence; but it would have been the loss of a friend to me. I could not have visited Mrs. Robert Martin, of Abbey-Mill Farm. Now I am secure of you for ever
You could not have visited me
No, to be sure you could not; but I never thought of that before. That would have been too dreadful!-- What an escape!-- Dear Miss Woodhouse, I would not give up the pleasure and honour of being intimate with you for any thing in the world
Indeed, Harriet, it would have been a severe pang to lose you; but it must have been. You would have thrown yourself out of all good society. I must have given you up
Dear me!-- How should I ever have borne it! It would have killed me never to come to Hartfield any more
Dear affectionate creature!-- _You_ banished to Abbey-Mill Farm!-- _You_ confined to the society of the illiterate and vulgar all your life! I wonder how the young man could have the assurance to ask it. He must have a pretty good opinion of himself
I do not think he is conceited either, in general
at least, he is very good natured, and I shall always feel much obliged to him, and have a great regard for -- but that is quite a different thing from -- and you know, though he may like me, it does not follow that I should -- and certainly I must confess that since my visiting here I have seen people -- and if one comes to compare them, person and manners, there is no comparison at all, _one_ is so very handsome and agreeable. However, I do really think Mr. Martin a very amiable young man, and have a great opinion of him; and his being so much attached to me -- and his writing such a letter -- but as to leaving you, it is what I would not do upon any consideration
Thank you, thank you, my own sweet little friend. We will not be parted. A woman is not to marry a man merely because she is asked, or because he is attached to her, and can write a tolerable letter
Oh no;-- and it is but a short letter too
very true; and it would be a small consolation to her, for the clownish manner which might be offending her every hour of the day, to know that her husband could write a good letter
Oh! yes, very. Nobody cares for a letter; the thing is, to be always happy with pleasant companions. I am quite determined to refuse him. But how shall I do? What shall I say
I shall never be invited to Abbey-Mill again
Nor, if you were, could I ever bear to part with you, my Harriet. You are a great deal too necessary at Hartfield to be spared to Abbey-Mill
And I am sure I should never want to go there; for I am never happy but at Hartfield
I think Mrs. Goddard would be very much surprized if she knew what had happened. I am sure Miss Nash would -- for Miss Nash thinks her own sister very well married, and it is only a linen-draper
One should be sorry to see greater pride or refinement in the teacher of a school, Harriet. I dare say Miss Nash would envy you such an opportunity as this of being married. Even this conquest would appear valuable in her eyes. As to any thing superior for you, I suppose she is quite in the dark. The attentions of a certain person can hardly be among the tittle-tattle of Highbury yet. Hitherto I fancy you and I are the only people to whom his looks and manners have explained themselves
Now he has got my letter
I wonder what they are all doing -- whether his sisters know -- if he is unhappy, they will be unhappy too. I hope he will not mind it so very much
Let us think of those among our absent friends who are more cheerfully employed
At this moment, perhaps, Mr. Elton is shewing your picture to his mother and sisters, telling how much more beautiful is the original, and after being asked for it five or six times, allowing them to hear your name, your own dear name
My picture!-- But he has left my picture in Bond-street
Has he so!-- Then I know nothing of Mr. Elton. No, my dear little modest Harriet, depend upon it the picture will not be in Bond-street till just before he mounts his horse to-morrow. It is his companion all this evening, his solace, his delight. It opens his designs to his family, it introduces you among them, it diffuses through the party those pleasantest feelings of our nature, eager curiosity and warm prepossession. How cheerful, how animated, how suspicious, how busy their imaginations all are
Well, I believe, if you will excuse me, Mr. Knightley, if you will not consider me as doing a very rude thing, I shall take Emma's advice and go out for a quarter of an hour. As the sun is out, I believe I had better take my three turns while I can. I treat you without ceremony, Mr. Knightley. We invalids think we are privileged people
My dear sir, do not make a stranger of me
I leave an excellent substitute in my daughter. Emma will be happy to entertain you. And therefore I think I will beg your excuse and take my three turns -- my winter walk
You cannot do better, sir
I would ask for the pleasure of your company, Mr. Knightley, but I am a very slow walker, and my pace would be tedious to you; and, besides, you have another long walk before you, to Donwell Abbey
Thank you, sir, thank you; I am going this moment myself; and I think the sooner _you_ go the better. I will fetch your greatcoat and open the garden door for you
I cannot rate her beauty as you do
but she is a pretty little creature, and I am inclined to think very well of her disposition. Her character depends upon those she is with; but in good hands she will turn out a valuable woman
I am glad you think so; and the good hands, I hope, may not be wanting
Come
you are anxious for a compliment, so I will tell you that you have improved her. You have cured her of her school-girl's giggle; she really does you credit
Thank you. I should be mortified indeed if I did not believe I had been of some use; but it is not every body who will bestow praise where they may. _You_ do not often overpower me with it
You are expecting her again, you say, this morning
Almost every moment. She has been gone longer already than she intended
Something has happened to delay her; some visitors perhaps
Highbury gossips!-- Tiresome wretches
Harriet may not consider every body tiresome that you would
I do not pretend to fix on times or places, but I must tell you that I have good reason to believe your little friend will soon hear of something to her advantage
Indeed! how so? of what sort
A very serious sort, I assure you
Very serious! I can think of but one thing -- Who is in love with her? Who makes you their confidant
I have reason to think
that Harriet Smith will soon have an offer of marriage, and from a most unexceptionable quarter:-- Robert Martin is the man. Her visit to Abbey-Mill, this summer, seems to have done his business. He is desperately in love and means to marry her
He is very obliging
but is he sure that Harriet means to marry him
Well, well, means to make her an offer then. Will that do? He came to the Abbey two evenings ago, on purpose to consult me about it. He knows I have a thorough regard for him and all his family, and, I believe, considers me as one of his best friends. He came to ask me whether I thought it would be imprudent in him to settle so early; whether I thought her too young: in short, whether I approved his choice altogether; having some apprehension perhaps of her being considered (especially since _your_ making so much of her) as in a line of society above him. I was very much pleased with all that he said. I never hear better sense from any one than Robert Martin. He always speaks to the purpose; open, straightforward, and very well judging. He told me every thing; his circumstances and plans, and what they all proposed doing in the event of his marriage. He is an excellent young man, both as son and brother. I had no hesitation in advising him to marry. He proved to me that he could afford it; and that being the case, I was convinced he could not do better. I praised the fair lady too, and altogether sent him away very happy. If he had never esteemed my opinion before, he would have thought highly of me then; and, I dare say, left the house thinking me the best friend and counsellor man ever had. This happened the night before last. Now, as we may fairly suppose, he would not allow much time to pass before he spoke to the lady, and as he does not appear to have spoken yesterday, it is not unlikely that he should be at Mrs. Goddard's to-day; and she may be detained by a visitor, without thinking him at all a tiresome wretch
Pray, Mr. Knightley
how do you know that Mr. Martin did not speak yesterday
Certainly
I do not absolutely know it; but it may be inferred. Was not she the whole day with you
Come
I will tell you something, in return for what you have told me. He did speak yesterday -- that is, he wrote, and was refused
Then she is a greater simpleton than I ever believed her. What is the foolish girl about
Oh! to be sure
it is always incomprehensible to a man that a woman should ever refuse an offer of marriage. A man always imagines a woman to be ready for any body who asks her
Nonsense! a man does not imagine any such thing. But what is the meaning of this? Harriet Smith refuse Robert Martin? madness, if it is so; but I hope you are mistaken
I saw her answer!-- nothing could be clearer
You saw her answer!-- you wrote her answer too. Emma, this is your doing. You persuaded her to refuse him
And if I did, (which, however, I am far from allowing) I should not feel that I had done wrong. Mr. Martin is a very respectable young man, but I cannot admit him to be Harriet's equal; and am rather surprized indeed that he should have ventured to address her. By your account, he does seem to have had some scruples. It is a pity that they were ever got over
Not Harriet's equal
No, he is not her equal indeed, for he is as much her superior in sense as in situation. Emma, your infatuation about that girl blinds you. What are Harriet Smith's claims, either of birth, nature or education, to any connexion higher than Robert Martin? She is the natural daughter of nobody knows whom, with probably no settled provision at all, and certainly no respectable relations. She is known only as parlour-boarder at a common school. She is not a sensible girl, nor a girl of any information. She has been taught nothing useful, and is too young and too simple to have acquired any thing herself. At her age she can have no experience, and with her little wit, is not very likely ever to have any that can avail her. She is pretty, and she is good tempered, and that is all. My only scruple in advising the match was on his account, as being beneath his deserts, and a bad connexion for him. I felt that, as to fortune, in all probability he might do much better; and that as to a rational companion or useful helpmate, he could not do worse. But I could not reason so to a man in love, and was willing to trust to there being no harm in her, to her having that sort of disposition, which, in good hands, like his, might be easily led aright and turn out very well. The advantage of the match I felt to be all on her side; and had not the smallest doubt (nor have I now) that there would be a general cry-out upon her extreme good luck. Even _your_ satisfaction I made sure of. It crossed my mind immediately that you would not regret your friend's leaving Highbury, for the sake of her being settled so well. I remember saying to myself, &bquo;Even Emma, with all her partiality for Harriet, will think this a good match
I cannot help wondering at your knowing so little of Emma as to say any such thing. What! think a farmer, (and with all his sense and all his merit Mr. Martin is nothing more,) a good match for my intimate friend! Not regret her leaving Highbury for the sake of marrying a man whom I could never admit as an acquaintance of my own! I wonder you should think it possible for me to have such feelings. I assure you mine are very different. I must think your statement by no means fair. You are not just to Harriet's claims. They would be estimated very differently by others as well as myself; Mr. Martin may be the richest of the two, but he is undoubtedly her inferior as to rank in society.-- The sphere in which she moves is much above his.-- It would be a degradation
A degradation to illegitimacy and ignorance, to be married to a respectable, intelligent gentleman-farmer
As to the circumstances of her birth, though in a legal sense she may be called Nobody, it will not hold in common sense. She is not to pay for the offence of others, by being held below the level of those with whom she is brought up.-- There can scarcely be a doubt that her father is a gentleman -- and a gentleman of fortune.-- Her allowance is very liberal; nothing has ever been grudged for her improvement or comfort.-- That she is a gentleman's daughter, is indubitable to me; that she associates with gentlemen's daughters, no one, I apprehend, will deny.-- She is superior to Mr. Robert Martin
Whoever might be her parents
whoever may have had the charge of her, it does not appear to have been any part of their plan to introduce her into what you would call good society. After receiving a very indifferent education she is left in Mrs. Goddard's hands to shift as she can;-- to move, in short, in Mrs. Goddard's line, to have Mrs. Goddard's acquaintance. Her friends evidently thought this good enough for her; and it _was_ good enough. She desired nothing better herself. Till you chose to turn her into a friend, her mind had no distaste for her own set, nor any ambition beyond it. She was as happy as possible with the Martins in the summer. She had no sense of superiority then. If she has it now, you have given it. You have been no friend to Harriet Smith, Emma. Robert Martin would never have proceeded so far, if he had not felt persuaded of her not being disinclined to him. I know him well. He has too much real feeling to address any woman on the haphazard of selfish passion. And as to conceit, he is the farthest from it of any man I know. Depend upon it he had encouragement
You are a very warm friend to Mr. Martin; but, as I said before, are unjust to Harriet. Harriet's claims to marry well are not so contemptible as you represent them. She is not a clever girl, but she has better sense than you are aware of, and does not deserve to have her understanding spoken of so slightingly. Waiving that point, however, and supposing her to be, as you describe her, only pretty and good-natured, let me tell you, that in the degree she possesses them, they are not trivial recommendations to the world in general, for she is, in fact, a beautiful girl, and must be thought so by ninety-nine people out of an hundred; and till it appears that men are much more philosophic on the subject of beauty than they are generally supposed; till they do fall in love with well-informed minds instead of handsome faces, a girl, with such loveliness as Harriet, has a certainty of being admired and sought after, of having the power of chusing from among many, consequently a claim to be nice. Her good-nature, too, is not so very slight a claim, comprehending, as it does, real, thorough sweetness of temper and manner, a very humble opinion of herself, and a great readiness to be pleased with other people. I am very much mistaken if your sex in general would not think such beauty, and such temper, the highest claims a woman could possess
Upon my word, Emma, to hear you abusing the reason you have, is almost enough to make me think so too. Better be without sense, than misapply it as you do
To be sure
I know _that_ is the feeling of you all. I know that such a girl as Harriet is exactly what every man delights in -- what at once bewitches his senses and satisfies his judgment. Oh! Harriet may pick and chuse. Were you, yourself, ever to marry, she is the very woman for you. And is she, at seventeen, just entering into life, just beginning to be known, to be wondered at because she does not accept the first offer she receives? No -- pray let her have time to look about her
I have always thought it a very foolish intimacy
though I have kept my thoughts to myself; but I now perceive that it will be a very unfortunate one for Harriet. You will puff her up with such ideas of her own beauty, and of what she has a claim to, that, in a little while, nobody within her reach will be good enough for her. Vanity working on a weak head, produces every sort of mischief. Nothing so easy as for a young lady to raise her expectations too high. Miss Harriet Smith may not find offers of marriage flow in so fast, though she is a very pretty girl. Men of sense, whatever you may chuse to say, do not want silly wives. Men of family would not be very fond of connecting themselves with a girl of such obscurity -- and most prudent men would be afraid of the inconvenience and disgrace they might be involved in, when the mystery of her parentage came to be revealed. Let her marry Robert Martin, and she is safe, respectable, and happy for ever; but if you encourage her to expect to marry greatly, and teach her to be satisfied with nothing less than a man of consequence and large fortune, she may be a parlour-boarder at Mrs. Goddard's all the rest of her life -- or, at least, (for Harriet Smith is a girl who will marry somebody or other,) till she grow desperate, and is glad to catch at the old writing-master's son
We think so very differently on this point, Mr. Knightley, that there can be no use in canvassing it. We shall only be making each other more angry. But as to my _letting_ her marry Robert Martin, it is impossible; she has refused him, and so decidedly, I think, as must prevent any second application. She must abide by the evil of having refused him, whatever it may be; and as to the refusal itself, I will not pretend to say that I might not influence her a little; but I assure you there was very little for me or for any body to do. His appearance is so much against him, and his manner so bad, that if she ever were disposed to favour him, she is not now. I can imagine, that before she had seen any body superior, she might tolerate him. He was the brother of her friends, and he took pains to please her; and altogether, having seen nobody better (that must have been his great assistant) she might not, while she was at Abbey-Mill, find him disagreeable. But the case is altered now. She knows now what gentlemen are; and nothing but a gentleman in education and manner has any chance with Harriet
Nonsense, errant nonsense, as ever was talked
Robert Martin's manners have sense, sincerity, and good-humour to recommend them; and his mind has more true gentility than Harriet Smith could understand
Robert Martin has no great loss -- if he can but think so; and I hope it will not be long before he does. Your views for Harriet are best known to yourself; but as you make no secret of your love of match-making, it is fair to suppose that views, and plans, and projects you have;-- and as a friend I shall just hint to you that if Elton is the man, I think it will be all labour in vain
Depend upon it, Elton will not do. Elton is a very good sort of man, and a very respectable vicar of Highbury, but not at all likely to make an imprudent match. He knows the value of a good income as well as any body. Elton may talk sentimentally, but he will act rationally. He is as well acquainted with his own claims, as you can be with Harriet's. He knows that he is a very handsome young man, and a great favourite wherever he goes; and from his general way of talking in unreserved moments, when there are only men present, I am convinced that he does not mean to throw himself away. I have heard him speak with great animation of a large family of young ladies that his sisters are intimate with, who have all twenty thousand pounds apiece
I am very much obliged to you
If I had set my heart on Mr. Elton's marrying Harriet, it would have been very kind to open my eyes; but at present I only want to keep Harriet to myself. I have done with match-making indeed. I could never hope to equal my own doings at Randalls. I shall leave off while I am well
Good morning to you
that she did not pretend to understand what his business might be, but she only knew that any woman whom Mr. Elton could prefer, she should think the luckiest woman in the world; for, beyond a doubt, Mr. Elton had not his equal for beauty or agreeableness
So many clever riddles as there used to be when he was young -- he wondered he could not remember them! but he hoped he should in time
Kitty, a fair but frozen maid
Why will not you write one yourself for us, Mr. Elton
that is the only security for its freshness; and nothing could be easier to you
Oh no! he had never written, hardly ever, any thing of the kind in his life. The stupidest fellow! He was afraid not even Miss Woodhouse
or Miss Smith could inspire him
I do not offer it for Miss Smith's collection
Being my friend's, I have no right to expose it in any degree to the public eye, but perhaps you may not dislike looking at it
Take it
it is for you. Take your own
There is so pointed, and so particular a meaning in this compliment
that I cannot have a doubt as to Mr. Elton's intentions. You are his object -- and you will soon receive the completest proof of it. I thought it must be so. I thought I could not be so deceived; but now, it is clear; the state of his mind is as clear and decided, as my wishes on the subject have been ever since I knew you. Yes, Harriet, just so long have I been wanting the very circumstance to happen what has happened. I could never tell whether an attachment between you and Mr. Elton were most desirable or most natural. Its probability and its eligibility have really so equalled each other! I am very happy. I congratulate you, my dear Harriet, with all my heart. This is an attachment which a woman may well feel pride in creating. This is a connexion which offers nothing but good. It will give you every thing that you want -- consideration, independence, a proper home -- it will fix you in the centre of all your real friends, close to Hartfield and to me, and confirm our intimacy for ever. This, Harriet, is an alliance which can never raise a blush in either of us
Dear Miss Woodhouse
Dear Miss Woodhouse
Whatever you say is always right
and therefore I suppose, and believe, and hope it must be so; but otherwise I could not have imagined it. It is so much beyond any thing I deserve. Mr. Elton, who might marry any body! There cannot be two opinions about _him_. He is so very superior. Only think of those sweet verses --&bquo;To Miss --------.' Dear me, how clever!-- Could it really be meant for me
I cannot make a question, or listen to a question about that. It is a certainty. Receive it on my judgment. It is a sort of prologue to the play, a motto to the chapter; and will be soon followed by matter-of-fact prose
It is a sort of thing which nobody could have expected. I am sure, a month ago, I had no more idea myself!-- The strangest things do take place
That Mr. Elton should really be in love with me,-- me, of all people, who did not know him, to speak to him, at Michaelmas! And he, the very handsomest man that ever was, and a man that every body looks up to, quite like Mr. Knightley! His company so sought after, that every body says he need not eat a single meal by himself if he does not chuse it; that he has more invitations than there are days in the week. And so excellent in the Church! Miss Nash has put down all the texts he has ever preached from since he came to Highbury. Dear me! When I look back to the first time I saw him! How little did I think!-- The two Abbots and I ran into the front room and peeped through the blind when we heard he was going by, and Miss Nash came and scolded us away, and staid to look through herself; however, she called me back presently, and let me look too, which was very good-natured. And how beautiful we thought he looked! He was arm-in-arm with Mr. Cole
This is an alliance which, whoever -- whatever your friends may be, must be agreeable to them, provided at least they have common sense; and we are not to be addressing our conduct to fools. If they are anxious to see you _happily_ married, here is a man whose amiable character gives every assurance of it;-- if they wish to have you settled in the same country and circle which they have chosen to place you in, here it will be accomplished; and if their only object is that you should, in the common phrase, be _well_ married, here is the comfortable fortune, the respectable establishment, the rise in the world which must satisfy them
Yes, very true. How nicely you talk; I love to hear you. You understand every thing. You and Mr. Elton are one as clever as the other. This charade!-- If I had studied a twelvemonth, I could never have made any thing like it
I thought he meant to try his skill, by his manner of declining it yesterday
I do think it is, without exception, the best charade I ever read
I never read one more to the purpose, certainly
It is as long again as almost all we have had before
I do not consider its length as particularly in its favour. Such things in general cannot be too short
It is one thing
to have very good sense in a common way, like every body else, and if there is any thing to say, to sit down and write a letter, and say just what you must, in a short way; and another, to write verses and charades like this
Such sweet lines
these two last!-- But how shall I ever be able to return the paper, or say I have found it out?-- Oh! Miss Woodhouse, what can we do about that
Leave it to me. You do nothing. He will be here this evening, I dare say, and then I will give it him back, and some nonsense or other will pass between us, and you shall not be committed.-- Your soft eyes shall chuse their own time for beaming. Trust to me
Oh! Miss Woodhouse, what a pity that I must not write this beautiful charade into my book! I am sure I have not got one half so good
Leave out the two last lines, and there is no reason why you should not write it into your book
Oh! but those two lines are
The best of all. Granted;-- for private enjoyment; and for private enjoyment keep them. They are not at all the less written you know, because you divide them. The couplet does not cease to be, nor does its meaning change. But take it away, and all _appropriation_ ceases, and a very pretty gallant charade remains, fit for any collection. Depend upon it, he would not like to have his charade slighted, much better than his passion. A poet in love must be encouraged in both capacities, or neither. Give me the book, I will write it down, and then there can be no possible reflection on you
I shall never let that book go out of my own hands
Very well
a most natural feeling; and the longer it lasts, the better I shall be pleased. But here is my father coming: you will not object to my reading the charade to him. It will be giving him so much pleasure! He loves any thing of the sort, and especially any thing that pays woman a compliment. He has the tenderest spirit of gallantry towards us all!-- You must let me read it to him
My dear Harriet, you must not refine too much upon this charade.-- You will betray your feelings improperly, if you are too conscious and too quick, and appear to affix more meaning, or even quite all the meaning which may be affixed to it. Do not be overpowered by such a little tribute of admiration. If he had been anxious for secrecy, he would not have left the paper while I was by; but he rather pushed it towards me than towards you. Do not let us be too solemn on the business. He has encouragement enough to proceed, without our sighing out our souls over this charade
Oh! no -- I hope I shall not be ridiculous about it. Do as you please
Well, my dears, how does your book go on?-- Have you got any thing fresh
Yes, papa; we have something to read you, something quite fresh. A piece of paper was found on the table this morning --(dropt, we suppose, by a fairy)-- containing a very pretty charade, and we have just copied it in
Aye, that's very just, indeed, that's very properly said. Very true. &bquo;Woman, lovely woman.' It is such a pretty charade, my dear, that I can easily guess what fairy brought it.-- Nobody could have written so prettily, but you, Emma
Yes, papa, it is written out in our second page. We copied it from the Elegant Extracts. It was Garrick's, you know
Oh! yes -- she will have her own room, of course; the room she always has;-- and there is the nursery for the children,-- just as usual, you know. Why should there be any change
I do not know, my dear -- but it is so long since she was here!-- not since last Easter, and then only for a few days.-- Mr. John Knightley's being a lawyer is very inconvenient.-- Poor Isabella!-- she is sadly taken away from us all!-- and how sorry she will be when she comes, not to see Miss Taylor here
She will not be surprized, papa, at least
I do not know, my dear. I am sure I was very much surprized when I first heard she was going to be married
We must ask Mr. and Mrs. Weston to dine with us, while Isabella is here
Yes, my dear, if there is time.-- But --(in a very depressed tone)-- she is coming for only one week. There will not be time for any thing
It is unfortunate that they cannot stay longer -- but it seems a case of necessity. Mr. John Knightley must be in town again on the28 th, and we ought to be thankful, papa, that we are to have the whole of the time they can give to the country, that two or three days are not to be taken out for the Abbey. Mr. Knightley promises to give up his claim this Christmas -- though you know it is longer since they were with him, than with us
It would be very hard, indeed, my dear, if poor Isabella were to be anywhere but at Hartfield
But I do not see why poor Isabella should be obliged to go back so soon, though he does. I think, Emma, I shall try and persuade her to stay longer with us. She and the children might stay very well
Ah! papa -- that is what you never have been able to accomplish, and I do not think you ever will. Isabella cannot bear to stay behind her husband
Harriet must give us as much of her company as she can while my brother and sister are here. I am sure she will be pleased with the children. We are very proud of the children, are not we, papa? I wonder which she will think the handsomest, Henry or John
Aye, I wonder which she will. Poor little dears, how glad they will be to come. They are very fond of being at Hartfield, Harriet
I dare say they are, sir. I am sure I do not know who is not
Henry is a fine boy, but John is very like his mama. Henry is the eldest, he was named after me, not after his father. John, the second, is named after his father. Some people are surprized, I believe, that the eldest was not, but Isabella would have him called Henry, which I thought very pretty of her. And he is a very clever boy, indeed. They are all remarkably clever; and they have so many pretty ways. They will come and stand by my chair, and say, &bquo;Grandpapa, can you give me a bit of string?' and once Henry asked me for a knife, but I told him knives were only made for grandpapas. I think their father is too rough with them very often
He appears rough to you
because you are so very gentle yourself; but if you could compare him with other papas, you would not think him rough. He wishes his boys to be active and hardy; and if they misbehave, can give them a sharp word now and then; but he is an affectionate father -- certainly Mr. John Knightley is an affectionate father. The children are all fond of him
And then their uncle comes in, and tosses them up to the ceiling in a very frightful way
But they like it, papa; there is nothing they like so much. It is such enjoyment to them, that if their uncle did not lay down the rule of their taking turns, whichever began would never give way to the other
Well, I cannot understand it
That is the case with us all, papa. One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other
Oh! here is the charade you were so obliging as to leave with us; thank you for the sight of it. We admired it so much, that I have ventured to write it into Miss Smith's collection. Your friend will not take it amiss I hope. Of course I have not transcribed beyond the first eight lines
honour
You must make my apologies to your friend; but so good a charade must not be confined to one or two. He may be sure of every woman's approbation while he writes with such gallantry
I have no hesitation in saying
I have no hesitation in saying -- at least if my friend feels at all as _I_ do -- I have not the smallest doubt that, could he see his little effusion honoured as _I_ see it, (looking at the book again, and replacing it on the table), he would consider it as the proudest moment of his life
There it is. There go you and your riddle-book one of these days
Oh, what a sweet house!-- How very beautiful!-- There are the yellow curtains that Miss Nash admires so much
I do not often walk this way _now_
but _then_ there will be an inducement, and I shall gradually get intimately acquainted with all the hedges, gates, pools and pollards of this part of Highbury
I wish we could contrive it
but I cannot think of any tolerable pretence for going in;-- no servant that I want to inquire about of his housekeeper -- no message from my father
I do so wonder, Miss Woodhouse, that you should not be married, or going to be married! so charming as you are
My being charming, Harriet, is not quite enough to induce me to marry; I must find other people charming -- one other person at least. And I am not only, not going to be married, at present, but have very little intention of ever marrying at all
Ah!-- so you say; but I cannot believe it
I must see somebody very superior to any one I have seen yet, to be tempted; Mr. Elton, you know, (recollecting herself,) is out of the question: and I do _not_ wish to see any such person. I would rather not be tempted. I cannot really change for the better. If I were to marry, I must expect to repent it
Dear me!-- it is so odd to hear a woman talk so
I have none of the usual inducements of women to marry. Were I to fall in love, indeed, it would be a different thing! but I never have been in love; it is not my way, or my nature; and I do not think I ever shall. And, without love, I am sure I should be a fool to change such a situation as mine. Fortune I do not want; employment I do not want; consequence I do not want: I believe few married women are half as much mistress of their husband's house as I am of Hartfield; and never, never could I expect to be so truly beloved and important; so always first and always right in any man's eyes as I am in my father's
But then, to be an old maid at last, like Miss Bates
That is as formidable an image as you could present, Harriet; and if I thought I should ever be like Miss Bates! so silly -- so satisfied -- so smiling -- so prosing -- so undistinguishing and unfastidious -- and so apt to tell every thing relative to every body about me, I would marry to-morrow. But between _us_, I am convinced there never can be any likeness, except in being unmarried
But still, you will be an old maid! and that's so dreadful
Never mind, Harriet, I shall not be a poor old maid; and it is poverty only which makes celibacy contemptible to a generous public! A single woman, with a very narrow income, must be a ridiculous, disagreeable old maid! the proper sport of boys and girls, but a single woman, of good fortune, is always respectable, and may be as sensible and pleasant as any body else. And the distinction is not quite so much against the candour and common sense of the world as appears at first; for a very narrow income has a tendency to contract the mind, and sour the temper. Those who can barely live, and who live perforce in a very small, and generally very inferior, society, may well be illiberal and cross. This does not apply, however, to Miss Bates; she is only too good natured and too silly to suit me; but, in general, she is very much to the taste of every body, though single and though poor. Poverty certainly has not contracted her mind: I really believe, if she had only a shilling in the world, she would be very likely to give away sixpence of it; and nobody is afraid of her: that is a great charm
Dear me! but what shall you do? how shall you employ yourself when you grow old
If I know myself, Harriet, mine is an active, busy mind, with a great many independent resources; and I do not perceive why I should be more in want of employment at forty or fifty than one-and-twenty. Woman's usual occupations of hand and mind will be as open to me then as they are now; or with no important variation. If I draw less, I shall read more; if I give up music, I shall take to carpet-work. And as for objects of interest, objects for the affections, which is in truth the great point of inferiority, the want of which is really the great evil to be avoided in _not_ marrying, I shall be very well off, with all the children of a sister I love so much, to care about. There will be enough of them, in all probability, to supply every sort of sensation that declining life can need. There will be enough for every hope and every fear; and though my attachment to none can equal that of a parent, it suits my ideas of comfort better than what is warmer and blinder. My nephews and nieces!-- I shall often have a niece with me
Do you know Miss Bates's niece? That is, I know you must have seen her a hundred times -- but are you acquainted
Oh! yes; we are always forced to be acquainted whenever she comes to Highbury. By the bye, _that_ is almost enough to put one out of conceit with a niece. Heaven forbid! at least, that I should ever bore people half so much about all the Knightleys together, as she does about Jane Fairfax. One is sick of the very name of Jane Fairfax. Every letter from her is read forty times over; her compliments to all friends go round and round again; and if she does but send her aunt the pattern of a stomacher, or knit a pair of garters for her grandmother, one hears of nothing else for a month. I wish Jane Fairfax very well; but she tires me to death
These are the sights, Harriet, to do one good. How trifling they make every thing else appear!-- I feel now as if I could think of nothing but these poor creatures all the rest of the day; and yet, who can say how soon it may all vanish from my mind
Very true
Poor creatures! one can think of nothing else
And really, I do not think the impression will soon be over
I do not think it will
Oh! dear, no
Ah! Harriet, here comes a very sudden trial of our stability in good thoughts. Well, (smiling,) I hope it may be allowed that if compassion has produced exertion and relief to the sufferers, it has done all that is truly important. If we feel for the wretched, enough to do all we can for them, the rest is empty sympathy, only distressing to ourselves
Oh! dear, yes
To fall in with each other on such an errand as this
to meet in a charitable scheme; this will bring a great increase of love on each side. I should not wonder if it were to bring on the declaration. It must, if I were not here. I wish I were anywhere else
This would soon have led to something better, of course
any thing interests between those who love; and any thing will serve as introduction to what is near the heart. If I could but have kept longer away
Part of my lace is gone
and I do not know how I am to contrive. I really am a most troublesome companion to you both, but I hope I am not often so ill-equipped. Mr. Elton, I must beg leave to stop at your house, and ask your housekeeper for a bit of ribband or string, or any thing just to keep my boot on
Cautious, very cautious
he advances inch by inch, and will hazard nothing till he believes himself secure
Ah, my dear
poor Miss Taylor -- It is a grievous business
Oh yes, sir
how you must miss her! And dear Emma, too!-- What a dreadful loss to you both!-- I have been so grieved for you.-- I could not imagine how you could possibly do without her.-- It is a sad change indeed.-- But I hope she is pretty well, sir
Pretty well, my dear -- I hope -- pretty well.-- I do not know but that the place agrees with her tolerably
Oh! no -- none in the least. I never saw Mrs. Weston better in my life -- never looking so well. Papa is only speaking his own regret
Very much to the honour of both
And do you see her, sir, tolerably often
Not near so often, my dear, as I could wish
Oh! papa, we have missed seeing them but one entire day since they married. Either in the morning or evening of every day, excepting one, have we seen either Mr. Weston or Mrs. Weston, and generally both, either at Randalls or here -- and as you may suppose, Isabella, most frequently here. They are very, very kind in their visits. Mr. Weston is really as kind as herself. Papa, if you speak in that melancholy way, you will be giving Isabella a false idea of us all. Every body must be aware that Miss Taylor must be missed, but every body ought also to be assured that Mr. and Mrs. Weston do really prevent our missing her by any means to the extent we ourselves anticipated -- which is the exact truth
Just as it should be
and just as I hoped it was from your letters. Her wish of shewing you attention could not be doubted, and his being a disengaged and social man makes it all easy. I have been always telling you, my love, that I had no idea of the change being so very material to Hartfield as you apprehended; and now you have Emma's account, I hope you will be satisfied
Why, to be sure
yes, certainly -- I cannot deny that Mrs. Weston, poor Mrs. Weston, does come and see us pretty often -- but then -- she is always obliged to go away again
It would be very hard upon Mr. Weston if she did not, papa.-- You quite forget poor Mr. Weston
I think, indeed
that Mr. Weston has some little claim. You and I, Emma, will venture to take the part of the poor husband. I, being a husband, and you not being a wife, the claims of the man may very likely strike us with equal force. As for Isabella, she has been married long enough to see the convenience of putting all the Mr. Westons aside as much as she can
Me, my love
Are you talking about me?-- I am sure nobody ought to be, or can be, a greater advocate for matrimony than I am; and if it had not been for the misery of her leaving Hartfield, I should never have thought of Miss Taylor but as the most fortunate woman in the world; and as to slighting Mr. Weston, that excellent Mr. Weston, I think there is nothing he does not deserve. I believe he is one of the very best-tempered men that ever existed. Excepting yourself and your brother, I do not know his equal for temper. I shall never forget his flying Henry's kite for him that very windy day last Easter -- and ever since his particular kindness last September twelvemonth in writing that note, at twelve o'clock at night, on purpose to assure me that there was no scarlet fever at Cobham, I have been convinced there could not be a more feeling heart nor a better man in existence.-- If any body can deserve him, it must be Miss Taylor
Where is the young man
Has he been here on this occasion -- or has he not
He has not been here yet
There was a strong expectation of his coming soon after the marriage, but it ended in nothing; and I have not heard him mentioned lately
But you should tell them of the letter, my dear
He wrote a letter to poor Mrs. Weston, to congratulate her, and a very proper, handsome letter it was. She shewed it to me. I thought it very well done of him indeed. Whether it was his own idea you know, one cannot tell. He is but young, and his uncle, perhaps
My dear papa, he is three-and-twenty. You forget how time passes
Three-and-twenty!-- is he indeed?-- Well, I could not have thought it -- and he was but two years old when he lost his poor mother! Well, time does fly indeed!-- and my memory is very bad. However, it was an exceeding good, pretty letter, and gave Mr. and Mrs. Weston a great deal of pleasure. I remember it was written from Weymouth, and dated Sept. 28th -- and began, &bquo;My dear Madam, ' but I forget how it went on; and it was signed &bquo;F. C. Weston Churchill.' -- I remember that perfectly
How very pleasing and proper of him
I have no doubt of his being a most amiable young man. But how sad it is that he should not live at home with his father! There is something so shocking in a child's being taken away from his parents and natural home! I never could comprehend how Mr. Weston could part with him. To give up one's child! I really never could think well of any body who proposed such a thing to any body else
Nobody ever did think well of the Churchills, I fancy
But you need not imagine Mr. Weston to have felt what you would feel in giving up Henry or John. Mr. Weston is rather an easy, cheerful-tempered man, than a man of strong feelings; he takes things as he finds them, and makes enjoyment of them somehow or other, depending, I suspect, much more upon what is called society for his comforts, that is, upon the power of eating and drinking, and playing whist with his neighbours five times a week, than upon family affection, or any thing that home affords
What a comfort it is, that we think alike about our nephews and nieces. As to men and women, our opinions are sometimes very different; but with regard to these children, I observe we never disagree
If you were as much guided by nature in your estimate of men and women, and as little under the power of fancy and whim in your dealings with them, as you are where these children are concerned, we might always think alike
To be sure -- our discordancies must always arise from my being in the wrong
Yes
and reason good. I was sixteen years old when you were born
A material difference then
and no doubt you were much my superior in judgment at that period of our lives; but does not the lapse of one-and-twenty years bring our understandings a good deal nearer
Yes -- a good deal _nearer_
But still, not near enough to give me a chance of being right, if we think differently
I have still the advantage of you by sixteen years' experience, and by not being a pretty young woman and a spoiled child. Come, my dear Emma, let us be friends, and say no more about it. Tell your aunt, little Emma, that she ought to set you a better example than to be renewing old grievances, and that if she were not wrong before, she is now
That's true
very true. Little Emma, grow up a better woman than your aunt. Be infinitely cleverer and not half so conceited. Now, Mr. Knightley, a word or two more, and I have done. As far as good intentions went, we were _both_ right, and I must say that no effects on my side of the argument have yet proved wrong. I only want to know that Mr. Martin is not very, very bitterly disappointed
A man cannot be more so
Ah!-- Indeed I am very sorry.-- Come, shake hands with me
How d'ye do, George
John, how are you
My poor dear Isabella
How long it is, how terribly long since you were here! And how tired you must be after your journey! You must go to bed early, my dear -- and I recommend a little gruel to you before you go.-- You and I will have a nice basin of gruel together. My dear Emma, suppose we all have a little gruel
It was an awkward business, my dear, your spending the autumn at South End instead of coming here. I never had much opinion of the sea air
Mr. Wingfield most strenuously recommended it, sir -- or we should not have gone. He recommended it for all the children, but particularly for the weakness in little Bella's throat,-- both sea air and bathing
Ah! my dear, but Perry had many doubts about the sea doing her any good; and as to myself, I have been long perfectly convinced, though perhaps I never told you so before, that the sea is very rarely of use to any body. I am sure it almost killed me once
Come, come
I must beg you not to talk of the sea. It makes me envious and miserable;-- I who have never seen it! South End is prohibited, if you please. My dear Isabella, I have not heard you make one inquiry about Mr. Perry yet; and he never forgets you
Oh! good Mr. Perry -- how is he, sir
Why, pretty well; but not quite well. Poor Perry is bilious, and he has not time to take care of himself -- he tells me he has not time to take care of himself -- which is very sad -- but he is always wanted all round the country. I suppose there is not a man in such practice anywhere. But then there is not so clever a man any where
And Mrs. Perry and the children, how are they? do the children grow? I have a great regard for Mr. Perry. I hope he will be calling soon. He will be so pleased to see my little ones
I hope he will be here to-morrow, for I have a question or two to ask him about myself of some consequence. And, my dear, whenever he comes, you had better let him look at little Bella's throat
Oh! my dear sir, her throat is so much better that I have hardly any uneasiness about it. Either bathing has been of the greatest service to her, or else it is to be attributed to an excellent embrocation of Mr. Wingfield's, which we have been applying at times ever since August
You seem to me to have forgotten Mrs. and Miss Bates
I have not heard one inquiry after them
Oh! the good Bateses -- I am quite ashamed of myself -- but you mention them in most of your letters. I hope they are quite well. Good old Mrs. Bates -- I will call upon her to-morrow, and take my children.-- They are always so pleased to see my children.-- And that excellent Miss Bates!-- such thorough worthy people!-- How are they, sir
Why, pretty well, my dear, upon the whole. But poor Mrs. Bates had a bad cold about a month ago
How sorry I am! But colds were never so prevalent as they have been this autumn. Mr. Wingfield told me that he has never known them more general or heavy -- except when it has been quite an influenza
That has been a good deal the case, my dear; but not to the degree you mention. Perry says that colds have been very general, but not so heavy as he has very often known them in November. Perry does not call it altogether a sickly season
No, I do not know that Mr. Wingfield considers it _very_ sickly except -- "Ah! my poor dear child, the truth is, that in London it is always a sickly season. Nobody is healthy in London, nobody can be. It is a dreadful thing to have you forced to live there! so far off!-- and the air so bad
No, indeed -- _we_ are not at all in a bad air. Our part of London is very superior to most others!-- You must not confound us with London in general, my dear sir. The neighbourhood of Brunswick Square is very different from almost all the rest. We are so very airy! I should be unwilling, I own, to live in any other part of the town;-- there is hardly any other that I could be satisfied to have my children in: but _we_ are so remarkably airy!-- Mr. Wingfield thinks the vicinity of Brunswick Square decidedly the most favourable as to air
Ah! my dear, it is not like Hartfield. You make the best of it -- but after you have been a week at Hartfield, you are all of you different creatures; you do not look like the same. Now I cannot say, that I think you are any of you looking well at present
I am sorry to hear you say so, sir; but I assure you, excepting those little nervous head-aches and palpitations which I am never entirely free from anywhere, I am quite well myself; and if the children were rather pale before they went to bed, it was only because they were a little more tired than usual, from their journey and the happiness of coming. I hope you will think better of their looks to-morrow; for I assure you Mr. Wingfield told me, that he did not believe he had ever sent us off altogether, in such good case. I trust, at least, that you do not think Mr. Knightley looking ill
Middling, my dear; I cannot compliment you. I think Mr. John Knightley very far from looking well
What is the matter, sir?-- Did you speak to me
I am sorry to find, my love, that my father does not think you looking well -- but I hope it is only from being a little fatigued. I could have wished, however, as you know, that you had seen Mr. Wingfield before you left home
My dear Isabella
pray do not concern yourself about my looks. Be satisfied with doctoring and coddling yourself and the children, and let me look as I chuse
I did not thoroughly understand what you were telling your brother
about your friend Mr. Graham's intending to have a bailiff from Scotland, to look after his new estate. What will it answer? Will not the old prejudice be too strong
That sweet, amiable Jane Fairfax
It is so long since I have seen her, except now and then for a moment accidentally in town! What happiness it must be to her good old grandmother and excellent aunt, when she comes to visit them! I always regret excessively on dear Emma's account that she cannot be more at Highbury; but now their daughter is married, I suppose Colonel and Mrs. Campbell will not be able to part with her at all. She would be such a delightful companion for Emma
Our little friend Harriet Smith, however, is just such another pretty kind of young person. You will like Harriet. Emma could not have a better companion than Harriet
I am most happy to hear it -- but only Jane Fairfax one knows to be so very accomplished and superior!-- and exactly Emma's age
Ah
Ah! there is no end of the sad consequences of your going to South End. It does not bear talking of
I shall always be very sorry that you went to the sea this autumn, instead of coming here
But why should you be sorry, sir?-- I assure you, it did the children a great deal of good
And, moreover, if you must go to the sea, it had better not have been to South End. South End is an unhealthy place. Perry was surprized to hear you had fixed upon South End
I know there is such an idea with many people, but indeed it is quite a mistake, sir.-- We all had our health perfectly well there, never found the least inconvenience from the mud; and Mr. Wingfield says it is entirely a mistake to suppose the place unhealthy; and I am sure he may be depended on, for he thoroughly understands the nature of the air, and his own brother and family have been there repeatedly
You should have gone to Cromer, my dear, if you went anywhere.-- Perry was a week at Cromer once, and he holds it to be the best of all the sea-bathing places. A fine open sea, he says, and very pure air. And, by what I understand, you might have had lodgings there quite away from the sea -- a quarter of a mile off -- very comfortable. You should have consulted Perry
But, my dear sir, the difference of the journey;-- only consider how great it would have been.-- An hundred miles, perhaps, instead of forty
Ah! my dear, as Perry says, where health is at stake, nothing else should be considered; and if one is to travel, there is not much to chuse between forty miles and an hundred.-- Better not move at all, better stay in London altogether than travel forty miles to get into a worse air. This is just what Perry said. It seemed to him a very ill-judged measure
Mr. Perry
would do as well to keep his opinion till it is asked for. Why does he make it any business of his, to wonder at what I do?-- at my taking my family to one part of the coast or another?-- I may be allowed, I hope, the use of my judgment as well as Mr. Perry.-- I want his directions no more than his drugs
If Mr. Perry can tell me how to convey a wife and five children a distance of an hundred and thirty miles with no greater expense or inconvenience than a distance of forty, I should be as willing to prefer Cromer to South End as he could himself
True, true
very true. That's a consideration indeed.-- But John, as to what I was telling you of my idea of moving the path to Langham, of turning it more to the right that it may not cut through the home meadows, I cannot conceive any difficulty. I should not attempt it, if it were to be the means of inconvenience to the Highbury people, but if you call to mind exactly the present line of the path. . . . The only way of proving it, however, will be to turn to our maps. I shall see you at the Abbey to-morrow morning I hope, and then we will look them over, and you shall give me your opinion
a throat very much inflamed, with a great deal of heat about her, a quick, low pulse, &amp;c. and she was sorry to find from Mrs. Goddard that Harriet was liable to very bad sore-throats, and had often alarmed her with them
A sore-throat!-- I hope not infectious. I hope not of a putrid infectious sort. Has Perry seen her? Indeed you should take care of yourself as well as of your friend. Let me entreat you to run no risks. Why does not Perry see her
It is so cold, so very cold -- and looks and feels so very much like snow, that if it were to any other place or with any other party, I should really try not to go out to-day -- and dissuade my father from venturing; but as he has made up his mind, and does not seem to feel the cold himself, I do not like to interfere, as I know it would be so great a disappointment to Mr. and Mrs. Weston. But, upon my word, Mr. Elton, in your case, I should certainly excuse myself. You appear to me a little hoarse already, and when you consider what demand of voice and what fatigues to-morrow will bring, I think it would be no more than common prudence to stay at home and take care of yourself to-night
very cold, certainly very cold
You do quite right
we will make your apologies to Mr. and Mrs. Weston
Well
this is most strange!-- After I had got him off so well, to chuse to go into company, and leave Harriet ill behind!-- Most strange indeed!-- But there is, I believe, in many men, especially single men, such an inclination -- such a passion for dining out -- a dinner engagement is so high in the class of their pleasures, their employments, their dignities, almost their duties, that any thing gives way to it -- and this must be the case with Mr. Elton; a most valuable, amiable, pleasing young man undoubtedly, and very much in love with Harriet; but still, he cannot refuse an invitation, he must dine out wherever he is asked. What a strange thing love is! he can see ready wit in Harriet, but will not dine alone for her
I never in my life saw a man more intent on being agreeable than Mr. Elton. It is downright labour to him where ladies are concerned. With men he can be rational and unaffected, but when he has ladies to please, every feature works
Mr. Elton's manners are not perfect
but where there is a wish to please, one ought to overlook, and one does overlook a great deal. Where a man does his best with only moderate powers, he will have the advantage over negligent superiority. There is such perfect good-temper and good-will in Mr. Elton as one cannot but value
Yes
he seems to have a great deal of good-will towards you
Me
are you imagining me to be Mr. Elton's object
Such an imagination has crossed me, I own, Emma; and if it never occurred to you before, you may as well take it into consideration now
Mr. Elton in love with me!-- What an idea
I do not say it is so; but you will do well to consider whether it is so or not, and to regulate your behaviour accordingly. I think your manners to him encouraging. I speak as a friend, Emma. You had better look about you, and ascertain what you do, and what you mean to do
I thank you; but I assure you you are quite mistaken. Mr. Elton and I are very good friends, and nothing more
A man
must have a very good opinion of himself when he asks people to leave their own fireside, and encounter such a day as this, for the sake of coming to see him. He must think himself a most agreeable fellow; I could not do such a thing. It is the greatest absurdity -- Actually snowing at this moment!-- The folly of not allowing people to be comfortable at home -- and the folly of people's not staying comfortably at home when they can! If we were obliged to go out such an evening as this, by any call of duty or business, what a hardship we should deem it;-- and here are we, probably with rather thinner clothing than usual, setting forward voluntarily, without excuse, in defiance of the voice of nature, which tells man, in every thing given to his view or his feelings, to stay at home himself, and keep all under shelter that he can;-- here are we setting forward to spend five dull hours in another man's house, with nothing to say or to hear that was not said and heard yesterday, and may not be said and heard again to-morrow. Going in dismal weather, to return probably in worse;-- four horses and four servants taken out for nothing but to convey five idle, shivering creatures into colder rooms and worse company than they might have had at home
Very true, my love
Much the same -- not better
_My_ report from Mrs. Goddard's
was not so pleasant as I had hoped --&bquo;Not better' was _my_ answer
Oh! no -- I am grieved to find -- I was on the point of telling you that when I called at Mrs. Goddard's door, which I did the very last thing before I returned to dress, I was told that Miss Smith was not better, by no means better, rather worse. Very much grieved and concerned -- I had flattered myself that she must be better after such a cordial as I knew had been given her in the morning
My visit was of use to the nervous part of her complaint, I hope; but not even I can charm away a sore throat; it is a most severe cold indeed. Mr. Perry has been with her, as you probably heard
Yes -- I imagined -- that is -- I did not
He has been used to her in these complaints, and I hope to-morrow morning will bring us both a more comfortable report. But it is impossible not to feel uneasiness. Such a sad loss to our party to-day
Dreadful!-- Exactly so, indeed.-- She will be missed every moment
What an excellent device
the use of a sheepskin for carriages. How very comfortable they make it;-- impossible to feel cold with such precautions. The contrivances of modern days indeed have rendered a gentleman's carriage perfectly complete. One is so fenced and guarded from the weather, that not a breath of air can find its way unpermitted. Weather becomes absolutely of no consequence. It is a very cold afternoon -- but in this carriage we know nothing of the matter.-- Ha! snows a little I see
Yes
and I think we shall have a good deal of it
Christmas weather
Quite seasonable; and extremely fortunate we may think ourselves that it did not begin yesterday, and prevent this day's party, which it might very possibly have done, for Mr. Woodhouse would hardly have ventured had there been much snow on the ground; but now it is of no consequence. This is quite the season indeed for friendly meetings. At Christmas every body invites their friends about them, and people think little of even the worst weather. I was snowed up at a friend's house once for a week. Nothing could be pleasanter. I went for only one night, and could not get away till that very day se'nnight
I cannot wish to be snowed up a week at Randalls
We are sure of excellent fires
and every thing in the greatest comfort. Charming people, Mr. and Mrs. Weston;-- Mrs. Weston indeed is much beyond praise, and he is exactly what one values, so hospitable, and so fond of society;-- it will be a small party, but where small parties are select, they are perhaps the most agreeable of any. Mr. Weston's dining-room does not accommodate more than ten comfortably; and for my part, I would rather, under such circumstances, fall short by two than exceed by two. I think you will agree with me, (turning with a soft air to Emma,) I think I shall certainly have your approbation, though Mr. Knightley perhaps, from being used to the large parties of London, may not quite enter into our feelings
I know nothing of the large parties of London, sir -- I never dine with any body
Indeed! (in a tone of wonder and pity,) I had no idea that the law had been so great a slavery. Well, sir, the time must come when you will be paid for all this, when you will have little labour and great enjoyment
My first enjoyment
will be to find myself safe at Hartfield again
Can it really be as my brother imagined? can it be possible for this man to be beginning to transfer his affections from Harriet to me?-- Absurd and insufferable
my son
Frank
my son
We want only two more to be just the right number. I should like to see two more here,-- your pretty little friend, Miss Smith, and my son -- and then I should say we were quite complete. I believe you did not hear me telling the others in the drawing-room that we are expecting Frank. I had a letter from him this morning, and he will be with us within a fortnight
He has been wanting to come to us
ever since September: every letter has been full of it; but he cannot command his own time. He has those to please who must be pleased, and who (between ourselves) are sometimes to be pleased only by a good many sacrifices. But now I have no doubt of seeing him here about the second week in January
What a very great pleasure it will be to you! and Mrs. Weston is so anxious to be acquainted with him, that she must be almost as happy as yourself
Yes, she would be, but that she thinks there will be another put-off. She does not depend upon his coming so much as I do: but she does not know the parties so well as I do. The case, you see, is --(but this is quite between ourselves: I did not mention a syllable of it in the other room. There are secrets in all families, you know)-- The case is, that a party of friends are invited to pay a visit at Enscombe in January; and that Frank's coming depends upon their being put off. If they are not put off, he cannot stir. But I know they will, because it is a family that a certain lady, of some consequence, at Enscombe, has a particular dislike to: and though it is thought necessary to invite them once in two or three years, they always are put off when it comes to the point. I have not the smallest doubt of the issue. I am as confident of seeing Frank here before the middle of January, as I am of being here myself: but your good friend there (nodding towards the upper end of the table) has so few vagaries herself, and has been so little used to them at Hartfield, that she cannot calculate on their effects, as I have been long in the practice of doing
I am sorry there should be any thing like doubt in the case
but am disposed to side with you, Mr. Weston. If you think he will come, I shall think so too; for you know Enscombe
Yes -- I have some right to that knowledge; though I have never been at the place in my life.-- She is an odd woman!-- But I never allow myself to speak ill of her, on Frank's account; for I do believe her to be very fond of him. I used to think she was not capable of being fond of any body, except herself: but she has always been kind to him (in her way -- allowing for little whims and caprices, and expecting every thing to be as she likes). And it is no small credit, in my opinion, to him, that he should excite such an affection; for, though I would not say it to any body else, she has no more heart than a stone to people in general; and the devil of a temper
for I cannot depend upon his coming. I cannot be so sanguine as Mr. Weston. I am very much afraid that it will all end in nothing. Mr. Weston, I dare say, has been telling you exactly how the matter stands
Yes -- it seems to depend upon nothing but the ill-humour of Mrs. Churchill, which I imagine to be the most certain thing in the world
My Emma
what is the certainty of caprice
You must know, my dear Mrs. Knightley, that we are by no means so sure of seeing Mr. Frank Churchill, in my opinion, as his father thinks. It depends entirely upon his aunt's spirits and pleasure; in short, upon her temper. To you -- to my two daughters -- I may venture on the truth. Mrs. Churchill rules at Enscombe, and is a very odd-tempered woman; and his coming now, depends upon her being willing to spare him
Oh, Mrs. Churchill; every body knows Mrs. Churchill
and I am sure I never think of that poor young man without the greatest compassion. To be constantly living with an ill-tempered person, must be dreadful. It is what we happily have never known any thing of; but it must be a life of misery. What a blessing, that she never had any children! Poor little creatures, how unhappy she would have made them
And so you do not consider this visit from your son as by any means certain. I am sorry for it. The introduction must be unpleasant, whenever it takes place; and the sooner it could be over, the better
Yes; and every delay makes one more apprehensive of other delays. Even if this family, the Braithwaites, are put off, I am still afraid that some excuse may be found for disappointing us. I cannot bear to imagine any reluctance on his side; but I am sure there is a great wish on the Churchills' to keep him to themselves. There is jealousy. They are jealous even of his regard for his father. In short, I can feel no dependence on his coming, and I wish Mr. Weston were less sanguine
He ought to come
If he could stay only a couple of days, he ought to come; and one can hardly conceive a young man's not having it in his power to do as much as that. A young _woman_, if she fall into bad hands, may be teazed, and kept at a distance from those she wants to be with; but one cannot comprehend a young _man_'s being under such restraint, as not to be able to spend a week with his father, if he likes it
One ought to be at Enscombe, and know the ways of the family, before one decides upon what he can do
One ought to use the same caution, perhaps, in judging of the conduct of any one individual of any one family; but Enscombe, I believe, certainly must not be judged by general rules: _she_ is so very unreasonable; and every thing gives way to her
But she is so fond of the nephew: he is so very great a favourite. Now, according to my idea of Mrs. Churchill, it would be most natural, that while she makes no sacrifice for the comfort of the husband, to whom she owes every thing, while she exercises incessant caprice towards _him_, she should frequently be governed by the nephew, to whom she owes nothing at all
My dearest Emma, do not pretend, with your sweet temper, to understand a bad one, or to lay down rules for it: you must let it go its own way. I have no doubt of his having, at times, considerable influence; but it may be perfectly impossible for him to know beforehand _when_ it will be
I shall not be satisfied, unless he comes
He may have a great deal of influence on some points
and on others, very little: and among those, on which she is beyond his reach, it is but too likely, may be this very circumstance of his coming away from them to visit us
Did she know?-- had she heard any thing about her, since their being at Randalls?-- he felt much anxiety -- he must confess that the nature of her complaint alarmed him considerably
Would not she give him her support?-- would not she add her persuasions to his, to induce Miss Woodhouse not to go to Mrs. Goddard's till it were certain that Miss Smith's disorder had no infection? He could not be satisfied without a promise -- would not she give him her influence in procuring it
So scrupulous for others
and yet so careless for herself! She wanted me to nurse my cold by staying at home to-day, and yet will not promise to avoid the danger of catching an ulcerated sore throat herself. Is this fair, Mrs. Weston?-- Judge between us. Have not I some right to complain? I am sure of your kind support and aid
This will prove a spirited beginning of your winter engagements, sir. Something new for your coachman and horses to be making their way through a storm of snow
I admired your resolution very much, sir
in venturing out in such weather, for of course you saw there would be snow very soon. Every body must have seen the snow coming on. I admired your spirit; and I dare say we shall get home very well. Another hour or two's snow can hardly make the road impassable; and we are two carriages; if one is blown over in the bleak part of the common field there will be the other at hand. I dare say we shall be all safe at Hartfield before midnight
What is to be done, my dear Emma?-- what is to be done
You had better order the carriage directly, my love
I dare say we shall be able to get along, if we set off directly; and if we do come to any thing very bad, I can get out and walk. I am not at all afraid. I should not mind walking half the way. I could change my shoes, you know, the moment I got home; and it is not the sort of thing that gives me cold
Indeed
Then, my dear Isabella, it is the most extraordinary sort of thing in the world, for in general every thing does give you cold. Walk home!-- you are prettily shod for walking home, I dare say. It will be bad enough for the horses
Your father will not be easy; why do not you go
I am ready, if the others are
Shall I ring the bell
Yes, do
He was afraid they should have a very bad drive. He was afraid poor Isabella would not like it. And there would be poor Emma in the carriage behind. He did not know what they had best do. They must keep as much together as they could
I am very much astonished, Mr. Elton. This to _me_! you forget yourself -- you take me for my friend -- any message to Miss Smith I shall be happy to deliver; but no more of this to _me_, if you please
Miss Smith!-- message to Miss Smith!-- What could she possibly mean
Mr. Elton, this is the most extraordinary conduct! and I can account for it only in one way; you are not yourself, or you could not speak either to me, or of Harriet, in such a manner. Command yourself enough to say no more, and I will endeavour to forget it
It is impossible for me to doubt any longer. You have made yourself too clear. Mr. Elton, my astonishment is much beyond any thing I can express. After such behaviour, as I have witnessed during the last month, to Miss Smith -- such attentions as I have been in the daily habit of observing -- to be addressing me in this manner -- this is an unsteadiness of character, indeed, which I had not supposed possible! Believe me, sir, I am far, very far, from gratified in being the object of such professions
Good Heaven
what can be the meaning of this?-- Miss Smith!-- I never thought of Miss Smith in the whole course of my existence -- never paid her any attentions, but as your friend: never cared whether she were dead or alive, but as your friend. If she has fancied otherwise, her own wishes have misled her, and I am very sorry -- extremely sorry -- But, Miss Smith, indeed!-- Oh! Miss Woodhouse! who can think of Miss Smith, when Miss Woodhouse is near! No, upon my honour, there is no unsteadiness of character. I have thought only of you. I protest against having paid the smallest attention to any one else. Every thing that I have said or done, for many weeks past, has been with the sole view of marking my adoration of yourself. You cannot really, seriously, doubt it. No!--(in an accent meant to be insinuating)-- I am sure you have seen and understood me
Charming Miss Woodhouse! allow me to interpret this interesting silence. It confesses that you have long understood me
No, sir
it confesses no such thing. So far from having long understood you, I have been in a most complete error with respect to your views, till this moment. As to myself, I am very sorry that you should have been giving way to any feelings -- Nothing could be farther from my wishes -- your attachment to my friend Harriet -- your pursuit of her, (pursuit, it appeared,) gave me great pleasure, and I have been very earnestly wishing you success: but had I supposed that she were not your attraction to Hartfield, I should certainly have thought you judged ill in making your visits so frequent. Am I to believe that you have never sought to recommend yourself particularly to Miss Smith?-- that you have never thought seriously of her
Never, madam
never, I assure you. _I_ think seriously of Miss Smith!-- Miss Smith is a very good sort of girl; and I should be happy to see her respectably settled. I wish her extremely well: and, no doubt, there are men who might not object to -- Every body has their level: but as for myself, I am not, I think, quite so much at a loss. I need not so totally despair of an equal alliance, as to be addressing myself to Miss Smith!-- No, madam, my visits to Hartfield have been for yourself only; and the encouragement I received
Encouragement!-- I give you encouragement!-- Sir, you have been entirely mistaken in supposing it. I have seen you only as the admirer of my friend. In no other light could you have been more to me than a common acquaintance. I am exceedingly sorry: but it is well that the mistake ends where it does. Had the same behaviour continued, Miss Smith might have been led into a misconception of your views; not being aware, probably, any more than myself, of the very great inequality which you are so sensible of. But, as it is, the disappointment is single, and, I trust, will not be lasting. I have no thoughts of matrimony at present
If I had not persuaded Harriet into liking the man, I could have borne any thing. He might have doubled his presumption to me -- but poor Harriet
ready wit
soft eyes
Here have I
actually talked poor Harriet into being very much attached to this man. She might never have thought of him but for me; and certainly never would have thought of him with hope, if I had not assured her of his attachment, for she is as modest and humble as I used to think him. Oh! that I had been satisfied with persuading her not to accept young Martin. There I was quite right. That was well done of me; but there I should have stopped, and left the rest to time and chance. I was introducing her into good company, and giving her the opportunity of pleasing some one worth having; I ought not to have attempted more. But now, poor girl, her peace is cut up for some time. I have been but half a friend to her; and if she were _not_ to feel this disappointment so very much, I am sure I have not an idea of any body else who would be at all desirable for her;-- William Coxe -- Oh! no, I could not endure William Coxe -- a pert young lawyer
Ah! Mr. Knightley, why do not you stay at home like poor Mr. Elton
that he was proposing to leave Highbury the following morning in his way to Bath; where, in compliance with the pressing entreaties of some friends, he had engaged to spend a few weeks, and very much regretted the impossibility he was under, from various circumstances of weather and business, of taking a personal leave of Mr. Woodhouse, of whose friendly civilities he should ever retain a grateful sense -- and had Mr. Woodhouse any commands, should be happy to attend to them
very great mortification and regret; but still he looked forward with the hope of coming to Randalls at no distant period
The Churchills are very likely in fault
but I dare say he might come if he would
I do not know why you should say so. He wishes exceedingly to come; but his uncle and aunt will not spare him
I cannot believe that he has not the power of coming, if he made a point of it. It is too unlikely, for me to believe it without proof
How odd you are! What has Mr. Frank Churchill done, to make you suppose him such an unnatural creature
I am not supposing him at all an unnatural creature, in suspecting that he may have learnt to be above his connexions, and to care very little for any thing but his own pleasure, from living with those who have always set him the example of it. It is a great deal more natural than one could wish, that a young man, brought up by those who are proud, luxurious, and selfish, should be proud, luxurious, and selfish too. If Frank Churchill had wanted to see his father, he would have contrived it between September and January. A man at his age -- what is he?-- three or four-and-twenty -- cannot be without the means of doing as much as that. It is impossible
That's easily said, and easily felt by you, who have always been your own master. You are the worst judge in the world, Mr. Knightley, of the difficulties of dependence. You do not know what it is to have tempers to manage
It is not to be conceived that a man of three or four-and-twenty should not have liberty of mind or limb to that amount. He cannot want money -- he cannot want leisure. We know, on the contrary, that he has so much of both, that he is glad to get rid of them at the idlest haunts in the kingdom. We hear of him for ever at some watering-place or other. A little while ago, he was at Weymouth. This proves that he can leave the Churchills
Yes, sometimes he can
And those times are whenever he thinks it worth his while; whenever there is any temptation of pleasure
It is very unfair to judge of any body's conduct, without an intimate knowledge of their situation. Nobody, who has not been in the interior of a family, can say what the difficulties of any individual of that family may be. We ought to be acquainted with Enscombe, and with Mrs. Churchill's temper, before we pretend to decide upon what her nephew can do. He may, at times, be able to do a great deal more than he can at others
There is one thing, Emma, which a man can always do, if he chuses, and that is, his duty; not by manoeuvring and finessing, but by vigour and resolution. It is Frank Churchill's duty to pay this attention to his father. He knows it to be so, by his promises and messages; but if he wished to do it, it might be done. A man who felt rightly would say at once, simply and resolutely, to Mrs. Churchill -- &bquo;Every sacrifice of mere pleasure you will always find me ready to make to your convenience; but I must go and see my father immediately. I know he would be hurt by my failing in such a mark of respect to him on the present occasion. I shall, therefore, set off to-morrow.'-- If he would say so to her at once, in the tone of decision becoming a man, there would be no opposition made to his going
No
but perhaps there might be some made to his coming back again. Such language for a young man entirely dependent, to use!-- Nobody but you, Mr. Knightley, would imagine it possible. But you have not an idea of what is requisite in situations directly opposite to your own. Mr. Frank Churchill to be making such a speech as that to the uncle and aunt, who have brought him up, and are to provide for him!-- Standing up in the middle of the room, I suppose, and speaking as loud as he could!-- How can you imagine such conduct practicable
Depend upon it, Emma, a sensible man would find no difficulty in it. He would feel himself in the right; and the declaration -- made, of course, as a man of sense would make it, in a proper manner -- would do him more good, raise him higher, fix his interest stronger with the people he depended on, than all that a line of shifts and expedients can ever do. Respect would be added to affection. They would feel that they could trust him; that the nephew who had done rightly by his father, would do rightly by them; for they know, as well as he does, as well as all the world must know, that he ought to pay this visit to his father; and while meanly exerting their power to delay it, are in their hearts not thinking the better of him for submitting to their whims. Respect for right conduct is felt by every body. If he would act in this sort of manner, on principle, consistently, regularly, their little minds would bend to his
I rather doubt that. You are very fond of bending little minds; but where little minds belong to rich people in authority, I think they have a knack of swelling out, till they are quite as unmanageable as great ones. I can imagine, that if you, as you are, Mr. Knightley, were to be transported and placed all at once in Mr. Frank Churchill's situation, you would be able to say and do just what you have been recommending for him; and it might have a very good effect. The Churchills might not have a word to say in return; but then, you would have no habits of early obedience and long observance to break through. To him who has, it might not be so easy to burst forth at once into perfect independence, and set all their claims on his gratitude and regard at nought. He may have as strong a sense of what would be right, as you can have, without being so equal, under particular circumstances, to act up to it
Then it would not be so strong a sense. If it failed to produce equal exertion, it could not be an equal conviction
Oh, the difference of situation and habit! I wish you would try to understand what an amiable young man may be likely to feel in directly opposing those, whom as child and boy he has been looking up to all his life
Our amiable young man is a very weak young man, if this be the first occasion of his carrying through a resolution to do right against the will of others. It ought to have been a habit with him by this time, of following his duty, instead of consulting expediency. I can allow for the fears of the child, but not of the man. As he became rational, he ought to have roused himself and shaken off all that was unworthy in their authority. He ought to have opposed the first attempt on their side to make him slight his father. Had he begun as he ought, there would have been no difficulty now
We shall never agree about him
but that is nothing extraordinary. I have not the least idea of his being a weak young man: I feel sure that he is not. Mr. Weston would not be blind to folly, though in his own son; but he is very likely to have a more yielding, complying, mild disposition than would suit your notions of man's perfection. I dare say he has; and though it may cut him off from some advantages, it will secure him many others
Yes; all the advantages of sitting still when he ought to move, and of leading a life of mere idle pleasure, and fancying himself extremely expert in finding excuses for it. He can sit down and write a fine flourishing letter, full of professions and falsehoods, and persuade himself that he has hit upon the very best method in the world of preserving peace at home and preventing his father's having any right to complain. His letters disgust me
Your feelings are singular. They seem to satisfy every body else
I suspect they do not satisfy Mrs. Weston. They hardly can satisfy a woman of her good sense and quick feelings: standing in a mother's place, but without a mother's affection to blind her. It is on her account that attention to Randalls is doubly due, and she must doubly feel the omission. Had she been a person of consequence herself, he would have come I dare say; and it would not have signified whether he did or no. Can you think your friend behindhand in these sort of considerations? Do you suppose she does not often say all this to herself? No, Emma, your amiable young man can be amiable only in French, not in English. He may be very &bquo;aimable,' have very good manners, and be very agreeable; but he can have no English delicacy towards the feelings of other people: nothing really amiable about him
You seem determined to think ill of him
Me!-- not at all
I do not want to think ill of him. I should be as ready to acknowledge his merits as any other man; but I hear of none, except what are merely personal; that he is well-grown and good-looking, with smooth, plausible manners
Well, if he have nothing else to recommend him, he will be a treasure at Highbury. We do not often look upon fine young men, well-bred and agreeable. We must not be nice and ask for all the virtues into the bargain. Cannot you imagine, Mr. Knightley, what a _sensation_ his coming will produce? There will be but one subject throughout the parishes of Donwell and Highbury; but one interest -- one object of curiosity; it will be all Mr. Frank Churchill; we shall think and speak of nobody else
You will excuse my being so much over-powered. If I find him conversable, I shall be glad of his acquaintance; but if he is only a chattering coxcomb, he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts
My idea of him is, that he can adapt his conversation to the taste of every body, and has the power as well as the wish of being universally agreeable. To you, he will talk of farming; to me, of drawing or music; and so on to every body, having that general information on all subjects which will enable him to follow the lead, or take the lead, just as propriety may require, and to speak extremely well on each; that is my idea of him
And mine
is, that if he turn out any thing like it, he will be the most insufferable fellow breathing! What! at three-and-twenty to be the king of his company -- the great man -- the practised politician, who is to read every body's character, and make every body's talents conduce to the display of his own superiority; to be dispensing his flatteries around, that he may make all appear like fools compared with himself! My dear Emma, your own good sense could not endure such a puppy when it came to the point
I will say no more about him
you turn every thing to evil. We are both prejudiced; you against, I for him; and we have no chance of agreeing till he is really here
Prejudiced! I am not prejudiced
But I am very much, and without being at all ashamed of it. My love for Mr. and Mrs. Weston gives me a decided prejudice in his favour
He is a person I never think of from one month's end to another
Mr. Elton is so good to the poor
Mrs. Cole had just been there, just called in for ten minutes, and had been so good as to sit an hour with them, and _she_ had taken a piece of cake and been so kind as to say she liked it very much; and, therefore, she hoped Miss Woodhouse and Miss Smith would do them the favour to eat a piece too
Oh! yes -- Mr. Elton, I understand -- certainly as to dancing -- Mrs. Cole was telling me that dancing at the rooms at Bath was -- Mrs. Cole was so kind as to sit some time with us, talking of Jane; for as soon as she came in, she began inquiring after her, Jane is so very great a favourite there. Whenever she is with us, Mrs. Cole does not know how to shew her kindness enough; and I must say that Jane deserves it as much as any body can. And so she began inquiring after her directly, saying, &bquo;I know you cannot have heard from Jane lately, because it is not her time for writing;' and when I immediately said, &bquo;But indeed we have, we had a letter this very morning, ' I do not know that I ever saw any body more surprized. &bquo;Have you, upon your honour?' said she; &bquo;well, that is quite unexpected. Do let me hear what she says
Have you heard from Miss Fairfax so lately? I am extremely happy. I hope she is well
Thank you. You are so kind
Oh! here it is. I was sure it could not be far off; but I had put my huswife upon it, you see, without being aware, and so it was quite hid, but I had it in my hand so very lately that I was almost sure it must be on the table. I was reading it to Mrs. Cole, and since she went away, I was reading it again to my mother, for it is such a pleasure to her -- a letter from Jane -- that she can never hear it often enough; so I knew it could not be far off, and here it is, only just under my huswife -- and since you are so kind as to wish to hear what she says;-- but, first of all, I really must, in justice to Jane, apologise for her writing so short a letter -- only two pages you see -- hardly two -- and in general she fills the whole paper and crosses half. My mother often wonders that I can make it out so well. She often says, when the letter is first opened, &bquo;Well, Hetty, now I think you will be put to it to make out all that checker-work'-- don't you, ma'am?-- And then I tell her, I am sure she would contrive to make it out herself, if she had nobody to do it for her -- every word of it -- I am sure she would pore over it till she had made out every word. And, indeed, though my mother's eyes are not so good as they were, she can see amazingly well still, thank God! with the help of spectacles. It is such a blessing! My mother's are really very good indeed. Jane often says, when she is here, &bquo;I am sure, grandmama, you must have had very strong eyes to see as you do -- and so much fine work as you have done too!-- I only wish my eyes may last me as well
You are extremely kind
you who are such a judge, and write so beautifully yourself. I am sure there is nobody's praise that could give us so much pleasure as Miss Woodhouse's. My mother does not hear; she is a little deaf you know. Ma'am
do you hear what Miss Woodhouse is so obliging to say about Jane's handwriting
My mother's deafness is very trifling you see -- just nothing at all. By only raising my voice, and saying any thing two or three times over, she is sure to hear; but then she is used to my voice. But it is very remarkable that she should always hear Jane better than she does me. Jane speaks so distinct! However, she will not find her grandmama at all deafer than she was two years ago; which is saying a great deal at my mother's time of life -- and it really is full two years, you know, since she was here. We never were so long without seeing her before, and as I was telling Mrs. Cole, we shall hardly know how to make enough of her now
Are you expecting Miss Fairfax here soon
Oh yes; next week
Indeed!-- that must be a very great pleasure
Thank you. You are very kind. Yes, next week. Every body is so surprized; and every body says the same obliging things. I am sure she will be as happy to see her friends at Highbury, as they can be to see her. Yes, Friday or Saturday; she cannot say which, because Colonel Campbell will be wanting the carriage himself one of those days. So very good of them to send her the whole way! But they always do, you know. Oh yes, Friday or Saturday next. That is what she writes about. That is the reason of her writing out of rule, as we call it; for, in the common course, we should not have heard from her before next Tuesday or Wednesday
Yes, so I imagined. I was afraid there could be little chance of my hearing any thing of Miss Fairfax to-day
So obliging of you! No, we should not have heard, if it had not been for this particular circumstance, of her being to come here so soon. My mother is so delighted!-- for she is to be three months with us at least. Three months, she says so, positively, as I am going to have the pleasure of reading to you. The case is, you see, that the Campbells are going to Ireland. Mrs. Dixon has persuaded her father and mother to come over and see her directly. They had not intended to go over till the summer, but she is so impatient to see them again -- for till she married, last October, she was never away from them so much as a week, which must make it very strange to be in different kingdoms, I was going to say, but however different countries, and so she wrote a very urgent letter to her mother -- or her father, I declare I do not know which it was, but we shall see presently in Jane's letter -- wrote in Mr. Dixon's name as well as her own, to press their coming over directly, and they would give them the meeting in Dublin, and take them back to their country seat, Baly-craig, a beautiful place, I fancy. Jane has heard a great deal of its beauty; from Mr. Dixon, I mean -- I do not know that she ever heard about it from any body else; but it was very natural, you know, that he should like to speak of his own place while he was paying his addresses -- and as Jane used to be very often walking out with them -- for Colonel and Mrs. Campbell were very particular about their daughter's not walking out often with only Mr. Dixon, for which I do not at all blame them; of course she heard every thing he might be telling Miss Campbell about his own home in Ireland; and I think she wrote us word that he had shewn them some drawings of the place, views that he had taken himself. He is a most amiable, charming young man, I believe. Jane was quite longing to go to Ireland, from his account of things
You must feel it very fortunate that Miss Fairfax should be allowed to come to you at such a time. Considering the very particular friendship between her and Mrs. Dixon, you could hardly have expected her to be excused from accompanying Colonel and Mrs. Campbell
Very true, very true, indeed. The very thing that we have always been rather afraid of; for we should not have liked to have her at such a distance from us, for months together -- not able to come if any thing was to happen. But you see, every thing turns out for the best. They want her (Mr. and Mrs. Dixon) excessively to come over with Colonel and Mrs. Campbell; quite depend upon it; nothing can be more kind or pressing than their _joint_ invitation, Jane says, as you will hear presently; Mr. Dixon does not seem in the least backward in any attention. He is a most charming young man. Ever since the service he rendered Jane at Weymouth, when they were out in that party on the water, and she, by the sudden whirling round of something or other among the sails, would have been dashed into the sea at once, and actually was all but gone, if he had not, with the greatest presence of mind, caught hold of her habit -- (I can never think of it without trembling!)-- But ever since we had the history of that day, I have been so fond of Mr. Dixon
But, in spite of all her friends' urgency, and her own wish of seeing Ireland, Miss Fairfax prefers devoting the time to you and Mrs. Bates
Yes -- entirely her own doing, entirely her own choice; and Colonel and Mrs. Campbell think she does quite right, just what they should recommend; and indeed they particularly _wish_ her to try her native air, as she has not been quite so well as usual lately
I am concerned to hear of it. I think they judge wisely. But Mrs. Dixon must be very much disappointed. Mrs. Dixon, I understand, has no remarkable degree of personal beauty; is not, by any means, to be compared with Miss Fairfax
Oh! no. You are very obliging to say such things -- but certainly not. There is no comparison between them. Miss Campbell always was absolutely plain -- but extremely elegant and amiable
Yes, that of course
Jane caught a bad cold, poor thing! so long ago as the 7th of November, (as I am going to read to you,) and has never been well since. A long time, is not it, for a cold to hang upon her? She never mentioned it before, because she would not alarm us. Just like her! so considerate!-- But however, she is so far from well, that her kind friends the Campbells think she had better come home, and try an air that always agrees with her; and they have no doubt that three or four months at Highbury will entirely cure her -- and it is certainly a great deal better that she should come here, than go to Ireland, if she is unwell. Nobody could nurse her, as we should do
It appears to me the most desirable arrangement in the world
And so she is to come to us next Friday or Saturday, and the Campbells leave town in their way to Holyhead the Monday following -- as you will find from Jane's letter. So sudden!-- You may guess, dear Miss Woodhouse, what a flurry it has thrown me in! If it was not for the drawback of her illness -- but I am afraid we must expect to see her grown thin, and looking very poorly. I must tell you what an unlucky thing happened to me, as to that. I always make a point of reading Jane's letters through to myself first, before I read them aloud to my mother, you know, for fear of there being any thing in them to distress her. Jane desired me to do it, so I always do: and so I began to-day with my usual caution; but no sooner did I come to the mention of her being unwell, than I burst out, quite frightened, with &bquo;Bless me! poor Jane is ill!'-- which my mother, being on the watch, heard distinctly, and was sadly alarmed at. However, when I read on, I found it was not near so bad as I had fancied at first; and I make so light of it now to her, that she does not think much about it. But I cannot imagine how I could be so off my guard. If Jane does not get well soon, we will call in Mr. Perry. The expense shall not be thought of; and though he is so liberal, and so fond of Jane that I dare say he would not mean to charge any thing for attendance, we could not suffer it to be so, you know. He has a wife and family to maintain, and is not to be giving away his time. Well, now I have just given you a hint of what Jane writes about, we will turn to her letter, and I am sure she tells her own story a great deal better than I can tell it for her
I am afraid we must be running away
My father will be expecting us. I had no intention, I thought I had no power of staying more than five minutes, when I first entered the house. I merely called, because I would not pass the door without inquiring after Mrs. Bates; but I have been so pleasantly detained! Now, however, we must wish you and Mrs. Bates good morning
she could never get acquainted with her: she did not know how it was, but there was such coldness and reserve -- such apparent indifference whether she pleased or not -- and then, her aunt was such an eternal talker!-- and she was made such a fuss with by every body!-- and it had been always imagined that they were to be so intimate -- because their ages were the same, every body had supposed they must be so fond of each other
She certainly is handsome; she is better than handsome
Was he handsome
Was he agreeable
He was generally thought so
Did he appear a sensible young man; a young man of information
A very pleasant evening
particularly pleasant. You and Miss Fairfax gave us some very good music. I do not know a more luxurious state, sir, than sitting at one's ease to be entertained a whole evening by two such young women; sometimes with music and sometimes with conversation. I am sure Miss Fairfax must have found the evening pleasant, Emma. You left nothing undone. I was glad you made her play so much, for having no instrument at her grandmother's, it must have been a real indulgence
I am happy you approved
but I hope I am not often deficient in what is due to guests at Hartfield
No, my dear
_that_ I am sure you are not. There is nobody half so attentive and civil as you are. If any thing, you are too attentive. The muffin last night -- if it had been handed round once, I think it would have been enough
No
you are not often deficient; not often deficient either in manner or comprehension. I think you understand me, therefore
I understand you well enough
Miss Fairfax is reserved
I always told you she was -- a little; but you will soon overcome all that part of her reserve which ought to be overcome, all that has its foundation in diffidence. What arises from discretion must be honoured
You think her diffident. I do not see it
My dear Emma
you are not going to tell me, I hope, that you had not a pleasant evening
Oh! no; I was pleased with my own perseverance in asking questions; and amused to think how little information I obtained
I am disappointed
I hope every body had a pleasant evening
I had. Once, I felt the fire rather too much; but then I moved back my chair a little, a very little, and it did not disturb me. Miss Bates was very chatty and good-humoured, as she always is, though she speaks rather too quick. However, she is very agreeable, and Mrs. Bates too, in a different way. I like old friends; and Miss Jane Fairfax is a very pretty sort of young lady, a very pretty and a very well-behaved young lady indeed. She must have found the evening agreeable, Mr. Knightley, because she had Emma
True, sir; and Emma, because she had Miss Fairfax
She is a sort of elegant creature that one cannot keep one's eyes from. I am always watching her to admire; and I do pity her from my heart
It is a great pity that their circumstances should be so confined! a great pity indeed! and I have often wished -- but it is so little one can venture to do -- small, trifling presents, of any thing uncommon -- Now we have killed a porker, and Emma thinks of sending them a loin or a leg; it is very small and delicate -- Hartfield pork is not like any other pork -- but still it is pork -- and, my dear Emma, unless one could be sure of their making it into steaks, nicely fried, as ours are fried, without the smallest grease, and not roast it, for no stomach can bear roast pork -- I think we had better send the leg -- do not you think so, my dear
My dear papa, I sent the whole hind-quarter. I knew you would wish it. There will be the leg to be salted, you know, which is so very nice, and the loin to be dressed directly in any manner they like
That's right, my dear, very right. I had not thought of it before, but that is the best way. They must not over-salt the leg; and then, if it is not over-salted, and if it is very thoroughly boiled, just as Serle boils ours, and eaten very moderately of, with a boiled turnip, and a little carrot or parsnip, I do not consider it unwholesome
Emma
I have a piece of news for you. You like news -- and I heard an article in my way hither that I think will interest you
News! Oh! yes, I always like news. What is it?-- why do you smile so?-- where did you hear it?-- at Randalls
No, not at Randalls; I have not been near Randalls
Oh! my dear sir, how are you this morning? My dear Miss Woodhouse -- I come quite over-powered. Such a beautiful hind-quarter of pork! You are too bountiful! Have you heard the news? Mr. Elton is going to be married
There is my news:-- I thought it would interest you
But where could _you_ hear it
Where could you possibly hear it, Mr. Knightley? For it is not five minutes since I received Mrs. Cole's note -- no, it cannot be more than five -- or at least ten -- for I had got my bonnet and spencer on, just ready to come out -- I was only gone down to speak to Patty again about the pork -- Jane was standing in the passage -- were not you, Jane?-- for my mother was so afraid that we had not any salting-pan large enough. So I said I would go down and see, and Jane said, &bquo;Shall I go down instead? for I think you have a little cold, and Patty has been washing the kitchen.'--&bquo;Oh! my dear,' said I -- well, and just then came the note. A Miss Hawkins -- that's all I know. A Miss Hawkins of Bath. But, Mr. Knightley, how could you possibly have heard it? for the very moment Mr. Cole told Mrs. Cole of it, she sat down and wrote to me. A Miss Hawkins
I was with Mr. Cole on business an hour and a half ago. He had just read Elton's letter as I was shewn in, and handed it to me directly
Well! that is quite -- I suppose there never was a piece of news more generally interesting. My dear sir, you really are too bountiful. My mother desires her very best compliments and regards, and a thousand thanks, and says you really quite oppress her
We consider our Hartfield pork
indeed it certainly is, so very superior to all other pork, that Emma and I cannot have a greater pleasure than
Oh! my dear sir, as my mother says, our friends are only too good to us. If ever there were people who, without having great wealth themselves, had every thing they could wish for, I am sure it is us. We may well say that &bquo;our lot is cast in a goodly heritage.' Well, Mr. Knightley, and so you actually saw the letter; well
It was short -- merely to announce -- but cheerful, exulting, of course
He had been so fortunate as to -- I forget the precise words -- one has no business to remember them. The information was, as you state, that he was going to be married to a Miss Hawkins. By his style, I should imagine it just settled
Mr. Elton going to be married
He will have every body's wishes for his happiness
He is very young to settle
He had better not be in a hurry. He seemed to me very well off as he was. We were always glad to see him at Hartfield
A new neighbour for us all, Miss Woodhouse
my mother is so pleased!-- she says she cannot bear to have the poor old Vicarage without a mistress. This is great news, indeed. Jane, you have never seen Mr. Elton!-- no wonder that you have such a curiosity to see him
No -- I have never seen Mr. Elton
is he -- is he a tall man
Who shall answer that question
My father would say &bquo;yes,' Mr. Knightley &bquo;no;' and Miss Bates and I that he is just the happy medium. When you have been here a little longer, Miss Fairfax, you will understand that Mr. Elton is the standard of perfection in Highbury, both in person and mind
Very true, Miss Woodhouse, so she will. He is the very best young man -- But, my dear Jane, if you remember, I told you yesterday he was precisely the height of Mr. Perry. Miss Hawkins,-- I dare say, an excellent young woman. His extreme attention to my mother -- wanting her to sit in the vicarage pew, that she might hear the better, for my mother is a little deaf, you know -- it is not much, but she does not hear quite quick. Jane says that Colonel Campbell is a little deaf. He fancied bathing might be good for it -- the warm bath -- but she says it did him no lasting benefit. Colonel Campbell, you know, is quite our angel. And Mr. Dixon seems a very charming young man, quite worthy of him. It is such a happiness when good people get together -- and they always do. Now, here will be Mr. Elton and Miss Hawkins; and there are the Coles, such very good people; and the Perrys -- I suppose there never was a happier or a better couple than Mr. and Mrs. Perry. I say, sir
I think there are few places with such society as Highbury. I always say, we are quite blessed in our neighbours.-- My dear sir, if there is one thing my mother loves better than another, it is pork -- a roast loin of pork
As to who, or what Miss Hawkins is, or how long he has been acquainted with her
nothing I suppose can be known. One feels that it cannot be a very long acquaintance. He has been gone only four weeks
You are silent, Miss Fairfax -- but I hope you mean to take an interest in this news. You, who have been hearing and seeing so much of late on these subjects, who must have been so deep in the business on Miss Campbell's account -- we shall not excuse your being indifferent about Mr. Elton and Miss Hawkins
When I have seen Mr. Elton
I dare say I shall be interested -- but I believe it requires _that_ with me. And as it is some months since Miss Campbell married, the impression may be a little worn off
Yes, he has been gone just four weeks, as you observe, Miss Woodhouse
four weeks yesterday.-- A Miss Hawkins!-- Well, I had always rather fancied it would be some young lady hereabouts; not that I ever -- Mrs. Cole once whispered to me -- but I immediately said, &bquo;No, Mr. Elton is a most worthy young man -- but'-- In short, I do not think I am particularly quick at those sort of discoveries. I do not pretend to it. What is before me, I see. At the same time, nobody could wonder if Mr. Elton should have aspired -- Miss Woodhouse lets me chatter on, so good-humouredly. She knows I would not offend for the world. How does Miss Smith do? She seems quite recovered now. Have you heard from Mrs. John Knightley lately? Oh! those dear little children. Jane, do you know I always fancy Mr. Dixon like Mr. John Knightley. I mean in person -- tall, and with that sort of look -- and not very talkative
Quite wrong, my dear aunt; there is no likeness at all
Very odd! but one never does form a just idea of any body beforehand. One takes up a notion, and runs away with it. Mr. Dixon, you say, is not, strictly speaking, handsome
Handsome! Oh! no -- far from it -- certainly plain. I told you he was plain
My dear, you said that Miss Campbell would not allow him to be plain, and that you yourself
Oh! as for me, my judgment is worth nothing. Where I have a regard, I always think a person well-looking. But I gave what I believed the general opinion, when I called him plain
Well, my dear Jane, I believe we must be running away. The weather does not look well, and grandmama will be uneasy. You are too obliging, my dear Miss Woodhouse; but we really must take leave. This has been a most agreeable piece of news indeed. I shall just go round by Mrs. Cole's; but I shall not stop three minutes: and, Jane, you had better go home directly -- I would not have you out in a shower!-- We think she is the better for Highbury already. Thank you, we do indeed. I shall not attempt calling on Mrs. Goddard, for I really do not think she cares for any thing but _boiled_ pork: when we dress the leg it will be another thing. Good morning to you, my dear sir. Oh! Mr. Knightley is coming too. Well, that is so very!-- I am sure if Jane is tired, you will be so kind as to give her your arm.-- Mr. Elton, and Miss Hawkins!-- Good morning to you
Oh! Miss Woodhouse, what do you think has happened
She had set out from Mrs. Goddard's half an hour ago -- she had been afraid it would rain -- she had been afraid it would pour down every moment -- but she thought she might get to Hartfield first -- she had hurried on as fast as possible; but then, as she was passing by the house where a young woman was making up a gown for her, she thought she would just step in and see how it went on; and though she did not seem to stay half a moment there, soon after she came out it began to rain, and she did not know what to do; so she ran on directly, as fast as she could, and took shelter at Ford's
And so, there she had set, without an idea of any thing in the world, full ten minutes, perhaps -- when, all of a sudden, who should come in -- to be sure it was so very odd!-- but they always dealt at Ford's -- who should come in, but Elizabeth Martin and her brother!-- Dear Miss Woodhouse! only think. I thought I should have fainted. I did not know what to do. I was sitting near the door -- Elizabeth saw me directly; but he did not; he was busy with the umbrella. I am sure she saw me, but she looked away directly, and took no notice; and they both went to quite the farther end of the shop; and I kept sitting near the door!-- Oh! dear; I was so miserable! I am sure I must have been as white as my gown. I could not go away you know, because of the rain; but I did so wish myself anywhere in the world but there.-- Oh! dear, Miss Woodhouse -- well, at last, I fancy, he looked round and saw me; for instead of going on with her buyings, they began whispering to one another. I am sure they were talking of me; and I could not help thinking that he was persuading her to speak to me --(do you think he was, Miss Woodhouse?)-- for presently she came forward -- came quite up to me, and asked me how I did, and seemed ready to shake hands, if I would. She did not do any of it in the same way that she used; I could see she was altered; but, however, she seemed to _try_ to be very friendly, and we shook hands, and stood talking some time; but I know no more what I said -- I was in such a tremble!-- I remember she said she was sorry we never met now; which I thought almost too kind! Dear, Miss Woodhouse, I was absolutely miserable! By that time, it was beginning to hold up, and I was determined that nothing should stop me from getting away -- and then -- only think!-- I found he was coming up towards me too -- slowly you know, and as if he did not quite know what to do; and so he came and spoke, and I answered -- and I stood for a minute, feeling dreadfully, you know, one can't tell how; and then I took courage, and said it did not rain, and I must go; and so off I set; and I had not got three yards from the door, when he came after me, only to say, if I was going to Hartfield, he thought I had much better go round by Mr. Cole's stables, for I should find the near way quite floated by this rain. Oh! dear, I thought it would have been the death of me! So I said, I was very much obliged to him: you know I could not do less; and then he went back to Elizabeth, and I came round by the stables -- I believe I did -- but I hardly knew where I was, or any thing about it. Oh! Miss Woodhouse, I would rather done any thing than have it happen: and yet, you know, there was a sort of satisfaction in seeing him behave so pleasantly and so kindly. And Elizabeth, too. Oh! Miss Woodhouse, do talk to me and make me comfortable again
It might be distressing, for the moment
but you seem to have behaved extremely well; and it is over -- and may never -- can never, as a first meeting, occur again, and therefore you need not think about it
very true
would not think about it
master nor mistress was at home
This is too bad
And now we shall just miss them; too provoking!-- I do not know when I have been so disappointed
How d'ye do?-- how d'ye do?-- We have been sitting with your father -- glad to see him so well. Frank comes to-morrow -- I had a letter this morning -- we see him to-morrow by dinner-time to a certainty -- he is at Oxford to-day, and he comes for a whole fortnight; I knew it would be so. If he had come at Christmas he could not have staid three days; I was always glad he did not come at Christmas; now we are going to have just the right weather for him, fine, dry, settled weather. We shall enjoy him completely; every thing has turned out exactly as we could wish
I shall soon bring him over to Hartfield
We had better move on, Mr. Weston
we are detaining the girls
Well, well, I am ready
but you must not be expecting such a _very_ fine young man; you have only had _my_ account you know; I dare say he is really nothing extraordinary
Think of me to-morrow, my dear Emma, about four o'clock
Four o'clock!-- depend upon it he will be here by three
Will Mr. Frank Churchill pass through Bath as well as Oxford
My dear, dear anxious friend
always overcareful for every body's comfort but your own; I see you now in all your little fidgets, going again and again into his room, to be sure that all is right
'Tis twelve; I shall not forget to think of you four hours hence; and by this time to-morrow, perhaps, or a little later, I may be thinking of the possibility of their all calling here. I am sure they will bring him soon
I told you yesterday
I told you all that he would be here before the time named. I remembered what I used to do myself. One cannot creep upon a journey; one cannot help getting on faster than one has planned; and the pleasure of coming in upon one's friends before the look-out begins, is worth a great deal more than any little exertion it needs
It is a great pleasure where one can indulge in it
though there are not many houses that I should presume on so far; but in coming _home_ I felt I might do any thing
Was she a horsewoman?-- Pleasant rides?-- Pleasant walks?-- Had they a large neighbourhood?-- Highbury, perhaps, afforded society enough?-- There were several very pretty houses in and about it.-- Balls -- had they balls?-- Was it a musical society
His father's marriage
had been the wisest measure, every friend must rejoice in it; and the family from whom he had received such a blessing must be ever considered as having conferred the highest obligation on him
Elegant, agreeable manners, I was prepared for
but I confess that, considering every thing, I had not expected more than a very tolerably well-looking woman of a certain age; I did not know that I was to find a pretty young woman in Mrs. Weston
You cannot see too much perfection in Mrs. Weston for my feelings
were you to guess her to be _eighteen_, I should listen with pleasure; but _she_ would be ready to quarrel with you for using such words. Don't let her imagine that you have spoken of her as a pretty young woman
I hope I should know better
no, depend upon it, (with a gallant bow,) that in addressing Mrs. Weston I should understand whom I might praise without any danger of being thought extravagant in my terms
He must be going. He had business at the Crown about his hay, and a great many errands for Mrs. Weston at Ford's, but he need not hurry any body else
As you are going farther on business, sir, I will take the opportunity of paying a visit, which must be paid some day or other, and therefore may as well be paid now. I have the honour of being acquainted with a neighbour of yours, (turning to Emma,) a lady residing in or near Highbury; a family of the name of Fairfax. I shall have no difficulty, I suppose, in finding the house; though Fairfax, I believe, is not the proper name -- I should rather say Barnes, or Bates. Do you know any family of that name
To be sure we do
Mrs. Bates -- we passed her house -- I saw Miss Bates at the window. True, true, you are acquainted with Miss Fairfax; I remember you knew her at Weymouth, and a fine girl she is. Call upon her, by all means
There is no necessity for my calling this morning
another day would do as well; but there was that degree of acquaintance at Weymouth which
Oh! go to-day, go to-day. Do not defer it. What is right to be done cannot be done too soon. And, besides, I must give you a hint, Frank; any want of attention to her _here_ should be carefully avoided. You saw her with the Campbells, when she was the equal of every body she mixed with, but here she is with a poor old grandmother, who has barely enough to live on. If you do not call early it will be a slight
I have heard her speak of the acquaintance
she is a very elegant young woman
Yes
If you were never particularly struck by her manners before
I think you will to-day. You will see her to advantage; see her and hear her -- no, I am afraid you will not hear her at all, for she has an aunt who never holds her tongue
You are acquainted with Miss Jane Fairfax, sir, are you
then give me leave to assure you that you will find her a very agreeable young lady. She is staying here on a visit to her grandmama and aunt, very worthy people; I have known them all my life. They will be extremely glad to see you, I am sure; and one of my servants shall go with you to shew you the way
My dear sir, upon no account in the world; my father can direct me
But your father is not going so far; he is only going to the Crown, quite on the other side of the street, and there are a great many houses; you might be very much at a loss, and it is a very dirty walk, unless you keep on the footpath; but my coachman can tell you where you had best cross the street
My good friend, this is quite unnecessary; Frank knows a puddle of water when he sees it, and as to Mrs. Bates's, he may get there from the Crown in a hop, step, and jump
He did not doubt there being very pleasant walks in every direction, but if left to him, he should always chuse the same. Highbury, that airy, cheerful, happy-looking Highbury, would be his constant attraction
Yes, oh! yes
I was just going to mention it. A very successful visit:-- I saw all the three ladies; and felt very much obliged to you for your preparatory hint. If the talking aunt had taken me quite by surprize, it must have been the death of me. As it was, I was only betrayed into paying a most unreasonable visit. Ten minutes would have been all that was necessary, perhaps all that was proper; and I had told my father I should certainly be at home before him -- but there was no getting away, no pause; and, to my utter astonishment, I found, when he (finding me nowhere else) joined me there at last, that I had been actually sitting with them very nearly three-quarters of an hour. The good lady had not given me the possibility of escape before
And how did you think Miss Fairfax looking
Ill, very ill -- that is, if a young lady can ever be allowed to look ill. But the expression is hardly admissible, Mrs. Weston, is it? Ladies can never look ill. And, seriously, Miss Fairfax is naturally so pale, as almost always to give the appearance of ill health.-- A most deplorable want of complexion
It was certainly never brilliant, but she would not allow it to have a sickly hue in general; and there was a softness and delicacy in her skin which gave peculiar elegance to the character of her face
Well
there is no disputing about taste.-- At least you admire her except her complexion
I cannot separate Miss Fairfax and her complexion
Did you see her often at Weymouth? Were you often in the same society
Ha! this must be the very shop that every body attends every day of their lives, as my father informs me. He comes to Highbury himself, he says, six days out of the seven, and has always business at Ford's. If it be not inconvenient to you, pray let us go in, that I may prove myself to belong to the place, to be a true citizen of Highbury. I must buy something at Ford's. It will be taking out my freedom.-- I dare say they sell gloves
Oh! yes, gloves and every thing. I do admire your patriotism. You will be adored in Highbury. You were very popular before you came, because you were Mr. Weston's son -- but lay out half a guinea at Ford's, and your popularity will stand upon your own virtues
But I beg your pardon, Miss Woodhouse, you were speaking to me, you were saying something at the very moment of this burst of my _amor_ _patriae_. Do not let me lose it. I assure you the utmost stretch of public fame would not make me amends for the loss of any happiness in private life
I merely asked, whether you had known much of Miss Fairfax and her party at Weymouth
And now that I understand your question, I must pronounce it to be a very unfair one. It is always the lady's right to decide on the degree of acquaintance. Miss Fairfax must already have given her account.-- I shall not commit myself by claiming more than she may chuse to allow
Upon my word! you answer as discreetly as she could do herself. But her account of every thing leaves so much to be guessed, she is so very reserved, so very unwilling to give the least information about any body, that I really think you may say what you like of your acquaintance with her
May I, indeed?-- Then I will speak the truth, and nothing suits me so well. I met her frequently at Weymouth. I had known the Campbells a little in town; and at Weymouth we were very much in the same set. Colonel Campbell is a very agreeable man, and Mrs. Campbell a friendly, warm-hearted woman. I like them all
You know Miss Fairfax's situation in life, I conclude; what she is destined to be
Yes --(rather hesitatingly)-- I believe I do
You get upon delicate subjects, Emma
remember that I am here.-- Mr. Frank Churchill hardly knows what to say when you speak of Miss Fairfax's situation in life. I will move a little farther off
I certainly do forget to think of _her_
as having ever been any thing but my friend and my dearest friend
Did you ever hear the young lady we were speaking of, play
Ever hear her
You forget how much she belongs to Highbury. I have heard her every year of our lives since we both began. She plays charmingly
You think so, do you?-- I wanted the opinion of some one who could really judge. She appeared to me to play well, that is, with considerable taste, but I know nothing of the matter myself.-- I am excessively fond of music, but without the smallest skill or right of judging of any body's performance.-- I have been used to hear her's admired; and I remember one proof of her being thought to play well:-- a man, a very musical man, and in love with another woman -- engaged to her -- on the point of marriage -- would yet never ask that other woman to sit down to the instrument, if the lady in question could sit down instead -- never seemed to like to hear one if he could hear the other. That, I thought, in a man of known musical talent, was some proof
Proof indeed
Mr. Dixon is very musical, is he? We shall know more about them all, in half an hour, from you, than Miss Fairfax would have vouchsafed in half a year
Yes, Mr. Dixon and Miss Campbell were the persons; and I thought it a very strong proof
Certainly -- very strong it was; to own the truth, a great deal stronger than, if _I_ had been Miss Campbell, would have been at all agreeable to me. I could not excuse a man's having more music than love -- more ear than eye -- a more acute sensibility to fine sounds than to my feelings. How did Miss Campbell appear to like it
It was her very particular friend, you know
Poor comfort
One would rather have a stranger preferred than one's very particular friend -- with a stranger it might not recur again -- but the misery of having a very particular friend always at hand, to do every thing better than one does oneself!-- Poor Mrs. Dixon! Well, I am glad she is gone to settle in Ireland
You are right. It was not very flattering to Miss Campbell; but she really did not seem to feel it
So much the better -- or so much the worse:-- I do not know which. But be it sweetness or be it stupidity in her -- quickness of friendship, or dulness of feeling -- there was one person, I think, who must have felt it: Miss Fairfax herself. She must have felt the improper and dangerous distinction
As to that -- I do not
Oh! do not imagine that I expect an account of Miss Fairfax's sensations from you, or from any body else. They are known to no human being, I guess, but herself. But if she continued to play whenever she was asked by Mr. Dixon, one may guess what one chuses
There appeared such a perfectly good understanding among them all
however, it is impossible for me to say on what terms they really were -- how it might all be behind the scenes. I can only say that there was smoothness outwardly. But you, who have known Miss Fairfax from a child, must be a better judge of her character, and of how she is likely to conduct herself in critical situations, than I can be
I have known her from a child, undoubtedly; we have been children and women together; and it is natural to suppose that we should be intimate,-- that we should have taken to each other whenever she visited her friends. But we never did. I hardly know how it has happened; a little, perhaps, from that wickedness on my side which was prone to take disgust towards a girl so idolized and so cried up as she always was, by her aunt and grandmother, and all their set. And then, her reserve -- I never could attach myself to any one so completely reserved
It is a most repulsive quality, indeed
Oftentimes very convenient, no doubt, but never pleasing. There is safety in reserve, but no attraction. One cannot love a reserved person
Not till the reserve ceases towards oneself; and then the attraction may be the greater. But I must be more in want of a friend, or an agreeable companion, than I have yet been, to take the trouble of conquering any body's reserve to procure one. Intimacy between Miss Fairfax and me is quite out of the question. I have no reason to think ill of her -- not the least -- except that such extreme and perpetual cautiousness of word and manner, such a dread of giving a distinct idea about any body, is apt to suggest suspicions of there being something to conceal
all young people would have their little whims
all young people would have their little whims
Hum! just the trifling, silly fellow I took him for
I suppose they will not take the liberty with you; they know you do not dine out
of course it must be declined
They would have solicited the honour earlier, but had been waiting the arrival of a folding-screen from London, which they hoped might keep Mr. Woodhouse from any draught of air, and therefore induce him the more readily to give them the honour of his company
I am not fond of dinner-visiting
I never was. No more is Emma. Late hours do not agree with us. I am sorry Mr. and Mrs. Cole should have done it. I think it would be much better if they would come in one afternoon next summer, and take their tea with us -- take us in their afternoon walk; which they might do, as our hours are so reasonable, and yet get home without being out in the damp of the evening. The dews of a summer evening are what I would not expose any body to. However, as they are so very desirous to have dear Emma dine with them, and as you will both be there, and Mr. Knightley too, to take care of her, I cannot wish to prevent it, provided the weather be what it ought, neither damp, nor cold, nor windy
Ah! Miss Taylor, if you had not married, you would have staid at home with me
Well, sir
as I took Miss Taylor away, it is incumbent on me to supply her place, if I can; and I will step to Mrs. Goddard in a moment, if you wish it
He should be happy to see Mrs. Goddard. He had a great regard for Mrs. Goddard; and Emma should write a line, and invite her. James could take the note. But first of all, there must be an answer written to Mrs. Cole
You will make my excuses, my dear, as civilly as possible. You will say that I am quite an invalid, and go no where, and therefore must decline their obliging invitation; beginning with my _compliments_, of course. But you will do every thing right. I need not tell you what is to be done. We must remember to let James know that the carriage will be wanted on Tuesday. I shall have no fears for you with him. We have never been there above once since the new approach was made; but still I have no doubt that James will take you very safely. And when you get there, you must tell him at what time you would have him come for you again; and you had better name an early hour. You will not like staying late. You will get very tired when tea is over
But you would not wish me to come away before I am tired, papa
Oh! no, my love; but you will soon be tired. There will be a great many people talking at once. You will not like the noise
But, my dear sir
if Emma comes away early, it will be breaking up the party
And no great harm if it does
The sooner every party breaks up, the better
But you do not consider how it may appear to the Coles. Emma's going away directly after tea might be giving offence. They are good-natured people, and think little of their own claims; but still they must feel that any body's hurrying away is no great compliment; and Miss Woodhouse's doing it would be more thought of than any other person's in the room. You would not wish to disappoint and mortify the Coles, I am sure, sir; friendly, good sort of people as ever lived, and who have been your neighbours these _ten_ years
No, upon no account in the world, Mr. Weston; I am much obliged to you for reminding me. I should be extremely sorry to be giving them any pain. I know what worthy people they are. Perry tells me that Mr. Cole never touches malt liquor. You would not think it to look at him, but he is bilious -- Mr. Cole is very bilious. No, I would not be the means of giving them any pain. My dear Emma, we must consider this. I am sure, rather than run the risk of hurting Mr. and Mrs. Cole, you would stay a little longer than you might wish. You will not regard being tired. You will be perfectly safe, you know, among your friends
Oh yes, papa. I have no fears at all for myself; and I should have no scruples of staying as late as Mrs. Weston, but on your account. I am only afraid of your sitting up for me. I am not afraid of your not being exceedingly comfortable with Mrs. Goddard. She loves piquet, you know; but when she is gone home, I am afraid you will be sitting up by yourself, instead of going to bed at your usual time -- and the idea of that would entirely destroy my comfort. You must promise me not to sit up
I do not know whether it ought to be so, but certainly silly things do cease to be silly if they are done by sensible people in an impudent way. Wickedness is always wickedness, but folly is not always folly.-- It depends upon the character of those who handle it. Mr. Knightley, he is _not_ a trifling, silly young man. If he were, he would have done this differently. He would either have gloried in the achievement, or been ashamed of it. There would have been either the ostentation of a coxcomb, or the evasions of a mind too weak to defend its own vanities.-- No, I am perfectly sure that he is not trifling or silly
This is coming as you should do
like a gentleman.-- I am quite glad to see you
How lucky that we should arrive at the same moment! for, if we had met first in the drawing-room, I doubt whether you would have discerned me to be more of a gentleman than usual.-- You might not have distinguished how I came, by my look or manner
Yes I should, I am sure I should. There is always a look of consciousness or bustle when people come in a way which they know to be beneath them. You think you carry it off very well, I dare say, but with you it is a sort of bravado, an air of affected unconcern; I always observe it whenever I meet you under those circumstances. _Now_ you have nothing to try for. You are not afraid of being supposed ashamed. You are not striving to look taller than any body else. _Now_ I shall really be very happy to walk into the same room with you
Nonsensical girl
One can suppose nothing else
and I was only surprized that there could ever have been a doubt. But Jane, it seems, had a letter from them very lately, and not a word was said about it. She knows their ways best; but I should not consider their silence as any reason for their not meaning to make the present. They might chuse to surprize her
I declare, I do not know when I have heard any thing that has given me more satisfaction!-- It always has quite hurt me that Jane Fairfax, who plays so delightfully, should not have an instrument. It seemed quite a shame, especially considering how many houses there are where fine instruments are absolutely thrown away. This is like giving ourselves a slap, to be sure! and it was but yesterday I was telling Mr. Cole, I really was ashamed to look at our new grand pianoforte in the drawing-room, while I do not know one note from another, and our little girls, who are but just beginning, perhaps may never make any thing of it; and there is poor Jane Fairfax, who is mistress of music, has not any thing of the nature of an instrument, not even the pitifullest old spinet in the world, to amuse herself with.-- I was saying this to Mr. Cole but yesterday, and he quite agreed with me; only he is so particularly fond of music that he could not help indulging himself in the purchase, hoping that some of our good neighbours might be so obliging occasionally to put it to a better use than we can; and that really is the reason why the instrument was bought -- or else I am sure we ought to be ashamed of it.-- We are in great hopes that Miss Woodhouse may be prevailed with to try it this evening
Why do you smile
Nay, why do you
Me!-- I suppose I smile for pleasure at Colonel Campbell's being so rich and so liberal.-- It is a handsome present
Very
I rather wonder that it was never made before
Perhaps Miss Fairfax has never been staying here so long before
Or that he did not give her the use of their own instrument -- which must now be shut up in London, untouched by any body
That is a grand pianoforte, and he might think it too large for Mrs. Bates's house
You may _say_ what you chuse -- but your countenance testifies that your _thoughts_ on this subject are very much like mine
I do not know. I rather believe you are giving me more credit for acuteness than I deserve. I smile because you smile, and shall probably suspect whatever I find you suspect; but at present I do not see what there is to question. If Colonel Campbell is not the person, who can be
What do you say to Mrs. Dixon
Mrs. Dixon! very true indeed. I had not thought of Mrs. Dixon. She must know as well as her father, how acceptable an instrument would be; and perhaps the mode of it, the mystery, the surprize, is more like a young woman's scheme than an elderly man's. It is Mrs. Dixon, I dare say. I told you that your suspicions would guide mine
If so, you must extend your suspicions and comprehend _Mr_. Dixon in them
Mr. Dixon.-- Very well. Yes, I immediately perceive that it must be the joint present of Mr. and Mrs. Dixon. We were speaking the other day, you know, of his being so warm an admirer of her performance
Yes, and what you told me on that head, confirmed an idea which I had entertained before.-- I do not mean to reflect upon the good intentions of either Mr. Dixon or Miss Fairfax, but I cannot help suspecting either that, after making his proposals to her friend, he had the misfortune to fall in love with _her_, or that he became conscious of a little attachment on her side. One might guess twenty things without guessing exactly the right; but I am sure there must be a particular cause for her chusing to come to Highbury instead of going with the Campbells to Ireland. Here, she must be leading a life of privation and penance; there it would have been all enjoyment. As to the pretence of trying her native air, I look upon that as a mere excuse.-- In the summer it might have passed; but what can any body's native air do for them in the months of January, February, and March? Good fires and carriages would be much more to the purpose in most cases of delicate health, and I dare say in her's. I do not require you to adopt all my suspicions, though you make so noble a profession of doing it, but I honestly tell you what they are
And, upon my word, they have an air of great probability. Mr. Dixon's preference of her music to her friend's, I can answer for being very decided
And then, he saved her life. Did you ever hear of that?-- A water party; and by some accident she was falling overboard. He caught her
He did. I was there -- one of the party
Were you really?-- Well!-- But you observed nothing of course, for it seems to be a new idea to you.-- If I had been there, I think I should have made some discoveries
I dare say you would; but I, simple I, saw nothing but the fact, that Miss Fairfax was nearly dashed from the vessel and that Mr. Dixon caught her.-- It was the work of a moment. And though the consequent shock and alarm was very great and much more durable -- indeed I believe it was half an hour before any of us were comfortable again -- yet that was too general a sensation for any thing of peculiar anxiety to be observable. I do not mean to say, however, that you might not have made discoveries
The arrival of this pianoforte is decisive with me. I wanted to know a little more, and this tells me quite enough. Depend upon it, we shall soon hear that it is a present from Mr. and Mrs. Dixon
And if the Dixons should absolutely deny all knowledge of it we must conclude it to come from the Campbells
No, I am sure it is not from the Campbells. Miss Fairfax knows it is not from the Campbells, or they would have been guessed at first. She would not have been puzzled, had she dared fix on them. I may not have convinced you perhaps, but I am perfectly convinced myself that Mr. Dixon is a principal in the business
Indeed you injure me if you suppose me unconvinced. Your reasonings carry my judgment along with them entirely. At first, while I supposed you satisfied that Colonel Campbell was the giver, I saw it only as paternal kindness, and thought it the most natural thing in the world. But when you mentioned Mrs. Dixon, I felt how much more probable that it should be the tribute of warm female friendship. And now I can see it in no other light than as an offering of love
my excellent friend Colonel Campbell
He had never seen so lovely a face, and was delighted with her naivete
Only to be sure it was paying him too great a compliment, but she did think there were some looks a little like Mr. Elton
I have made a most wretched discovery
I have been here a week to-morrow -- half my time. I never knew days fly so fast. A week to-morrow!-- And I have hardly begun to enjoy myself. But just got acquainted with Mrs. Weston, and others!-- I hate the recollection
Perhaps you may now begin to regret that you spent one whole day, out of so few, in having your hair cut
No
that is no subject of regret at all. I have no pleasure in seeing my friends, unless I can believe myself fit to be seen
What is the matter
Thank you for rousing me
I believe I have been very rude; but really Miss Fairfax has done her hair in so odd a way -- so very odd a way -- that I cannot keep my eyes from her. I never saw any thing so outree!-- Those curls!-- This must be a fancy of her own. I see nobody else looking like her!-- I must go and ask her whether it is an Irish fashion. Shall I?-- Yes, I will -- I declare I will -- and you shall see how she takes it;-- whether she colours
This is the luxury of a large party
one can get near every body, and say every thing. My dear Emma, I am longing to talk to you. I have been making discoveries and forming plans, just like yourself, and I must tell them while the idea is fresh. Do you know how Miss Bates and her niece came here
How?-- They were invited, were not they
Oh! yes -- but how they were conveyed hither?-- the manner of their coming
They walked, I conclude. How else could they come
Very true.-- Well, a little while ago it occurred to me how very sad it would be to have Jane Fairfax walking home again, late at night, and cold as the nights are now. And as I looked at her, though I never saw her appear to more advantage, it struck me that she was heated, and would therefore be particularly liable to take cold. Poor girl! I could not bear the idea of it; so, as soon as Mr. Weston came into the room, and I could get at him, I spoke to him about the carriage. You may guess how readily he came into my wishes; and having his approbation, I made my way directly to Miss Bates, to assure her that the carriage would be at her service before it took us home; for I thought it would be making her comfortable at once. Good soul! she was as grateful as possible, you may be sure. &bquo;Nobody was ever so fortunate as herself!'-- but with many, many thanks --&bquo;there was no occasion to trouble us, for Mr. Knightley's carriage had brought, and was to take them home again.' I was quite surprized;-- very glad, I am sure; but really quite surprized. Such a very kind attention -- and so thoughtful an attention!-- the sort of thing that so few men would think of. And, in short, from knowing his usual ways, I am very much inclined to think that it was for their accommodation the carriage was used at all. I do suspect he would not have had a pair of horses for himself, and that it was only as an excuse for assisting them
Very likely
nothing more likely. I know no man more likely than Mr. Knightley to do the sort of thing -- to do any thing really good-natured, useful, considerate, or benevolent. He is not a gallant man, but he is a very humane one; and this, considering Jane Fairfax's ill-health, would appear a case of humanity to him;-- and for an act of unostentatious kindness, there is nobody whom I would fix on more than on Mr. Knightley. I know he had horses to-day -- for we arrived together; and I laughed at him about it, but he said not a word that could betray
Well
you give him credit for more simple, disinterested benevolence in this instance than I do; for while Miss Bates was speaking, a suspicion darted into my head, and I have never been able to get it out again. The more I think of it, the more probable it appears. In short, I have made a match between Mr. Knightley and Jane Fairfax. See the consequence of keeping you company!-- What do you say to it
Mr. Knightley and Jane Fairfax
Dear Mrs. Weston, how could you think of such a thing?-- Mr. Knightley!-- Mr. Knightley must not marry!-- You would not have little Henry cut out from Donwell?-- Oh! no, no, Henry must have Donwell. I cannot at all consent to Mr. Knightley's marrying; and I am sure it is not at all likely. I am amazed that you should think of such a thing
My dear Emma, I have told you what led me to think of it. I do not want the match -- I do not want to injure dear little Henry -- but the idea has been given me by circumstances; and if Mr. Knightley really wished to marry, you would not have him refrain on Henry's account, a boy of six years old, who knows nothing of the matter
Yes, I would. I could not bear to have Henry supplanted.-- Mr. Knightley marry!-- No, I have never had such an idea, and I cannot adopt it now. And Jane Fairfax, too, of all women
Nay, she has always been a first favourite with him, as you very well know
But the imprudence of such a match
I am not speaking of its prudence; merely its probability
I see no probability in it, unless you have any better foundation than what you mention. His good-nature, his humanity, as I tell you, would be quite enough to account for the horses. He has a great regard for the Bateses, you know, independent of Jane Fairfax -- and is always glad to shew them attention. My dear Mrs. Weston, do not take to match-making. You do it very ill. Jane Fairfax mistress of the Abbey!-- Oh! no, no;-- every feeling revolts. For his own sake, I would not have him do so mad a thing
Imprudent, if you please -- but not mad. Excepting inequality of fortune, and perhaps a little disparity of age, I can see nothing unsuitable
But Mr. Knightley does not want to marry. I am sure he has not the least idea of it. Do not put it into his head. Why should he marry?-- He is as happy as possible by himself; with his farm, and his sheep, and his library, and all the parish to manage; and he is extremely fond of his brother's children. He has no occasion to marry, either to fill up his time or his heart
My dear Emma, as long as he thinks so, it is so; but if he really loves Jane Fairfax
Nonsense! He does not care about Jane Fairfax. In the way of love, I am sure he does not. He would do any good to her, or her family; but
Well
perhaps the greatest good he could do them, would be to give Jane such a respectable home
If it would be good to her, I am sure it would be evil to himself; a very shameful and degrading connexion. How would he bear to have Miss Bates belonging to him?-- To have her haunting the Abbey, and thanking him all day long for his great kindness in marrying Jane?-- &bquo;So very kind and obliging!-- But he always had been such a very kind neighbour!' And then fly off, through half a sentence, to her mother's old petticoat. &bquo;Not that it was such a very old petticoat either -- for still it would last a great while -- and, indeed, she must thankfully say that their petticoats were all very strong
For shame, Emma! Do not mimic her. You divert me against my conscience. And, upon my word, I do not think Mr. Knightley would be much disturbed by Miss Bates. Little things do not irritate him. She might talk on; and if he wanted to say any thing himself, he would only talk louder, and drown her voice. But the question is not, whether it would be a bad connexion for him, but whether he wishes it; and I think he does. I have heard him speak, and so must you, so very highly of Jane Fairfax! The interest he takes in her -- his anxiety about her health -- his concern that she should have no happier prospect! I have heard him express himself so warmly on those points!-- Such an admirer of her performance on the pianoforte, and of her voice! I have heard him say that he could listen to her for ever. Oh! and I had almost forgotten one idea that occurred to me -- this pianoforte that has been sent here by somebody -- though we have all been so well satisfied to consider it a present from the Campbells, may it not be from Mr. Knightley? I cannot help suspecting him. I think he is just the person to do it, even without being in love
Then it can be no argument to prove that he is in love. But I do not think it is at all a likely thing for him to do. Mr. Knightley does nothing mysteriously
I have heard him lamenting her having no instrument repeatedly; oftener than I should suppose such a circumstance would, in the common course of things, occur to him
Very well; and if he had intended to give her one, he would have told her so
There might be scruples of delicacy, my dear Emma. I have a very strong notion that it comes from him. I am sure he was particularly silent when Mrs. Cole told us of it at dinner
You take up an idea, Mrs. Weston, and run away with it; as you have many a time reproached me with doing. I see no sign of attachment -- I believe nothing of the pianoforte -- and proof only shall convince me that Mr. Knightley has any thought of marrying Jane Fairfax
I often feel concern
that I dare not make our carriage more useful on such occasions. It is not that I am without the wish; but you know how impossible my father would deem it that James should put-to for such a purpose
Quite out of the question, quite out of the question
but you must often wish it, I am sure
This present from the Campbells
this pianoforte is very kindly given
Yes
But they would have done better had they given her notice of it. Surprizes are foolish things. The pleasure is not enhanced, and the inconvenience is often considerable. I should have expected better judgment in Colonel Campbell
That will do
you have sung quite enough for one evening -- now be quiet
One more;-- they would not fatigue Miss Fairfax on any account, and would only ask for one more
I think you could manage this without effort; the first part is so very trifling. The strength of the song falls on the second
That fellow
thinks of nothing but shewing off his own voice. This must not be
Miss Bates, are you mad, to let your niece sing herself hoarse in this manner? Go, and interfere. They have no mercy on her
Perhaps it is as well
I must have asked Miss Fairfax, and her languid dancing would not have agreed with me, after your's
Oh! if I could but play as well as you and Miss Fairfax
Don't class us together, Harriet. My playing is no more like her's, than a lamp is like sunshine
Oh! dear -- I think you play the best of the two. I think you play quite as well as she does. I am sure I had much rather hear you. Every body last night said how well you played
Those who knew any thing about it, must have felt the difference. The truth is, Harriet, that my playing is just good enough to be praised, but Jane Fairfax's is much beyond it
Well, I always shall think that you play quite as well as she does, or that if there is any difference nobody would ever find it out. Mr. Cole said how much taste you had; and Mr. Frank Churchill talked a great deal about your taste, and that he valued taste much more than execution
Ah! but Jane Fairfax has them both, Harriet
Are you sure? I saw she had execution, but I did not know she had any taste. Nobody talked about it. And I hate Italian singing.-- There is no understanding a word of it. Besides, if she does play so very well, you know, it is no more than she is obliged to do, because she will have to teach. The Coxes were wondering last night whether she would get into any great family. How did you think the Coxes looked
Just as they always do -- very vulgar
They told me something
but it is nothing of any consequence
They told me -- that Mr. Martin dined with them last Saturday
Oh
He came to their father upon some business, and he asked him to stay to dinner
Oh
They talked a great deal about him, especially Anne Cox. I do not know what she meant, but she asked me if I thought I should go and stay there again next summer
She meant to be impertinently curious, just as such an Anne Cox should be
She said he was very agreeable the day he dined there. He sat by her at dinner. Miss Nash thinks either of the Coxes would be very glad to marry him
Very likely.-- I think they are, without exception, the most vulgar girls in Highbury
For my companion tells me
that I absolutely promised Miss Bates last night, that I would come this morning. I was not aware of it myself. I did not know that I had fixed a day, but as he says I did, I am going now
And while Mrs. Weston pays her visit, I may be allowed, I hope
to join your party and wait for her at Hartfield -- if you are going home
I thought you meant to go with me. They would be very much pleased
Me! I should be quite in the way. But, perhaps -- I may be equally in the way here. Miss Woodhouse looks as if she did not want me. My aunt always sends me off when she is shopping. She says I fidget her to death; and Miss Woodhouse looks as if she could almost say the same. What am I to do
I am here on no business of my own
I am only waiting for my friend. She will probably have soon done, and then we shall go home. But you had better go with Mrs. Weston and hear the instrument
Well -- if you advise it.-- But (with a smile) if Colonel Campbell should have employed a careless friend, and if it should prove to have an indifferent tone -- what shall I say? I shall be no support to Mrs. Weston. She might do very well by herself. A disagreeable truth would be palatable through her lips, but I am the wretchedest being in the world at a civil falsehood
I do not believe any such thing
I am persuaded that you can be as insincere as your neighbours, when it is necessary; but there is no reason to suppose the instrument is indifferent. Quite otherwise indeed, if I understood Miss Fairfax's opinion last night
Do come with me
if it be not very disagreeable to you. It need not detain us long. We will go to Hartfield afterwards. We will follow them to Hartfield. I really wish you to call with me. It will be felt so great an attention! and I always thought you meant it
Should I send it to Mrs. Goddard's, ma'am
Yes -- no -- yes, to Mrs. Goddard's. Only my pattern gown is at Hartfield. No, you shall send it to Hartfield, if you please. But then, Mrs. Goddard will want to see it.-- And I could take the pattern gown home any day. But I shall want the ribbon directly -- so it had better go to Hartfield -- at least the ribbon. You could make it into two parcels, Mrs. Ford, could not you
It is not worth while, Harriet, to give Mrs. Ford the trouble of two parcels
No more it is
No trouble in the world, ma'am
Oh! but indeed I would much rather have it only in one. Then, if you please, you shall send it all to Mrs. Goddard's -- I do not know -- No, I think, Miss Woodhouse, I may just as well have it sent to Hartfield, and take it home with me at night. What do you advise
That you do not give another half-second to the subject. To Hartfield, if you please, Mrs. Ford
Aye, that will be much best
I should not at all like to have it sent to Mrs. Goddard's
My dear Miss Woodhouse
I am just run across to entreat the favour of you to come and sit down with us a little while, and give us your opinion of our new instrument; you and Miss Smith. How do you do, Miss Smith?-- Very well I thank you.-- And I begged Mrs. Weston to come with me, that I might be sure of succeeding
I hope Mrs. Bates and Miss Fairfax are
Very well, I am much obliged to you. My mother is delightfully well; and Jane caught no cold last night. How is Mr. Woodhouse?-- I am so glad to hear such a good account. Mrs. Weston told me you were here.-- Oh! then, said I, I must run across, I am sure Miss Woodhouse will allow me just to run across and entreat her to come in; my mother will be so very happy to see her -- and now we are such a nice party, she cannot refuse.--&bquo;Aye, pray do, ' said Mr. Frank Churchill, &bquo;Miss Woodhouse's opinion of the instrument will be worth having.'-- But, said I, I shall be more sure of succeeding if one of you will go with me.--&bquo;Oh,' said he, &bquo;wait half a minute, till I have finished my job;'-- For, would you believe it, Miss Woodhouse, there he is, in the most obliging manner in the world, fastening in the rivet of my mother's spectacles.-- The rivet came out, you know, this morning.-- So very obliging!-- For my mother had no use of her spectacles -- could not put them on. And, by the bye, every body ought to have two pair of spectacles; they should indeed. Jane said so. I meant to take them over to John Saunders the first thing I did, but something or other hindered me all the morning; first one thing, then another, there is no saying what, you know. At one time Patty came to say she thought the kitchen chimney wanted sweeping. Oh, said I, Patty do not come with your bad news to me. Here is the rivet of your mistress's spectacles out. Then the baked apples came home, Mrs. Wallis sent them by her boy; they are extremely civil and obliging to us, the Wallises, always -- I have heard some people say that Mrs. Wallis can be uncivil and give a very rude answer, but we have never known any thing but the greatest attention from them. And it cannot be for the value of our custom now, for what is our consumption of bread, you know? Only three of us.-- besides dear Jane at present -- and she really eats nothing -- makes such a shocking breakfast, you would be quite frightened if you saw it. I dare not let my mother know how little she eats -- so I say one thing and then I say another, and it passes off. But about the middle of the day she gets hungry, and there is nothing she likes so well as these baked apples, and they are extremely wholesome, for I took the opportunity the other day of asking Mr. Perry; I happened to meet him in the street. Not that I had any doubt before -- I have so often heard Mr. Woodhouse recommend a baked apple. I believe it is the only way that Mr. Woodhouse thinks the fruit thoroughly wholesome. We have apple-dumplings, however, very often. Patty makes an excellent apple-dumpling. Well, Mrs. Weston, you have prevailed, I hope, and these ladies will oblige us
very happy to wait on Mrs. Bates, &amp;c
How do you do, Mrs. Ford? I beg your pardon. I did not see you before. I hear you have a charming collection of new ribbons from town. Jane came back delighted yesterday. Thank ye, the gloves do very well -- only a little too large about the wrist; but Jane is taking them in
What was I talking of
I declare I cannot recollect what I was talking of.-- Oh! my mother's spectacles. So very obliging of Mr. Frank Churchill! &bquo;Oh!' said he, &bquo;I do think I can fasten the rivet; I like a job of this kind excessively.'-- Which you know shewed him to be so very. . . . Indeed I must say that, much as I had heard of him before and much as I had expected, he very far exceeds any thing. . . . I do congratulate you, Mrs. Weston, most warmly. He seems every thing the fondest parent could. . . . &bquo;Oh!' said he, &bquo;I can fasten the rivet. I like a job of that sort excessively.' I never shall forget his manner. And when I brought out the baked apples from the closet, and hoped our friends would be so very obliging as to take some, &bquo;Oh!' said he directly, &bquo;there is nothing in the way of fruit half so good, and these are the finest-looking home-baked apples I ever saw in my life.' That, you know, was so very. . . . And I am sure, by his manner, it was no compliment. Indeed they are very delightful apples, and Mrs. Wallis does them full justice -- only we do not have them baked more than twice, and Mr. Woodhouse made us promise to have them done three times -- but Miss Woodhouse will be so good as not to mention it. The apples themselves are the very finest sort for baking, beyond a doubt; all from Donwell -- some of Mr. Knightley's most liberal supply. He sends us a sack every year; and certainly there never was such a keeping apple anywhere as one of his trees -- I believe there is two of them. My mother says the orchard was always famous in her younger days. But I was really quite shocked the other day -- for Mr. Knightley called one morning, and Jane was eating these apples, and we talked about them and said how much she enjoyed them, and he asked whether we were not got to the end of our stock. &bquo;I am sure you must be, ' said he, &bquo;and I will send you another supply; for I have a great many more than I can ever use. William Larkins let me keep a larger quantity than usual this year. I will send you some more, before they get good for nothing.' So I begged he would not -- for really as to ours being gone, I could not absolutely say that we had a great many left -- it was but half a dozen indeed; but they should be all kept for Jane; and I could not at all bear that he should be sending us more, so liberal as he had been already; and Jane said the same. And when he was gone, she almost quarrelled with me -- No, I should not say quarrelled, for we never had a quarrel in our lives; but she was quite distressed that I had owned the apples were so nearly gone; she wished I had made him believe we had a great many left. Oh, said I, my dear, I did say as much as I could. However, the very same evening William Larkins came over with a large basket of apples, the same sort of apples, a bushel at least, and I was very much obliged, and went down and spoke to William Larkins and said every thing, as you may suppose. William Larkins is such an old acquaintance! I am always glad to see him. But, however, I found afterwards from Patty, that William said it was all the apples of _that_ sort his master had; he had brought them all -- and now his master had not one left to bake or boil. William did not seem to mind it himself, he was so pleased to think his master had sold so many; for William, you know, thinks more of his master's profit than any thing; but Mrs. Hodges, he said, was quite displeased at their being all sent away. She could not bear that her master should not be able to have another apple-tart this spring. He told Patty this, but bid her not mind it, and be sure not to say any thing to us about it, for Mrs. Hodges _would_ be cross sometimes, and as long as so many sacks were sold, it did not signify who ate the remainder. And so Patty told me, and I was excessively shocked indeed! I would not have Mr. Knightley know any thing about it for the world! He would be so very. . . . I wanted to keep it from Jane's knowledge; but, unluckily, I had mentioned it before I was aware
Pray take care, Mrs. Weston, there is a step at the turning. Pray take care, Miss Woodhouse, ours is rather a dark staircase -- rather darker and narrower than one could wish. Miss Smith, pray take care. Miss Woodhouse, I am quite concerned, I am sure you hit your foot. Miss Smith, the step at the turning
This is a pleasure
coming at least ten minutes earlier than I had calculated. You find me trying to be useful; tell me if you think I shall succeed
What
have not you finished it yet? you would not earn a very good livelihood as a working silversmith at this rate
I have not been working uninterruptedly
I have been assisting Miss Fairfax in trying to make her instrument stand steadily, it was not quite firm; an unevenness in the floor, I believe. You see we have been wedging one leg with paper. This was very kind of you to be persuaded to come. I was almost afraid you would be hurrying home
Whoever Colonel Campbell might employ
the person has not chosen ill. I heard a good deal of Colonel Campbell's taste at Weymouth; and the softness of the upper notes I am sure is exactly what he and _all_ _that_ _party_ would particularly prize. I dare say, Miss Fairfax, that he either gave his friend very minute directions, or wrote to Broadwood himself. Do not you think so
It is not fair
mine was a random guess. Do not distress her
How much your friends in Ireland must be enjoying your pleasure on this occasion, Miss Fairfax. I dare say they often think of you, and wonder which will be the day, the precise day of the instrument's coming to hand. Do you imagine Colonel Campbell knows the business to be going forward just at this time?-- Do you imagine it to be the consequence of an immediate commission from him, or that he may have sent only a general direction, an order indefinite as to time, to depend upon contingencies and conveniences
Till I have a letter from Colonel Campbell
I can imagine nothing with any confidence. It must be all conjecture
Conjecture -- aye, sometimes one conjectures right, and sometimes one conjectures wrong. I wish I could conjecture how soon I shall make this rivet quite firm. What nonsense one talks, Miss Woodhouse, when hard at work, if one talks at all;-- your real workmen, I suppose, hold their tongues; but we gentlemen labourers if we get hold of a word -- Miss Fairfax said something about conjecturing. There, it is done. I have the pleasure, madam, (to Mrs. Bates,) of restoring your spectacles, healed for the present
If you are very kind
it will be one of the waltzes we danced last night;-- let me live them over again. You did not enjoy them as I did; you appeared tired the whole time. I believe you were glad we danced no longer; but I would have given worlds -- all the worlds one ever has to give -- for another half-hour
What felicity it is to hear a tune again which _has_ made one happy!-- If I mistake not that was danced at Weymouth
Here is something quite new to me. Do you know it?-- Cramer.-- And here are a new set of Irish melodies. That, from such a quarter, one might expect. This was all sent with the instrument. Very thoughtful of Colonel Campbell, was not it?-- He knew Miss Fairfax could have no music here. I honour that part of the attention particularly; it shews it to have been so thoroughly from the heart. Nothing hastily done; nothing incomplete. True affection only could have prompted it
You speak too plain. She must understand you
I hope she does. I would have her understand me. I am not in the least ashamed of my meaning
But really, I am half ashamed, and wish I had never taken up the idea
I am very glad you did, and that you communicated it to me. I have now a key to all her odd looks and ways. Leave shame to her. If she does wrong, she ought to feel it
She is not entirely without it, I think
I do not see much sign of it. She is playing _Robin_ _Adair_ at this moment -- _his_ favourite
Mr. Knightley I declare!-- I must speak to him if possible, just to thank him. I will not open the window here; it would give you all cold; but I can go into my mother's room you know. I dare say he will come in when he knows who is here. Quite delightful to have you all meet so!-- Our little room so honoured
How d' ye do?-- how d'ye do?-- Very well, I thank you. So obliged to you for the carriage last night. We were just in time; my mother just ready for us. Pray come in; do come in. You will find some friends here
How is your niece, Miss Bates?-- I want to inquire after you all, but particularly your niece. How is Miss Fairfax?-- I hope she caught no cold last night. How is she to-day? Tell me how Miss Fairfax is
So obliged to you!-- so very much obliged to you for the carriage
I am going to Kingston. Can I do any thing for you
Oh! dear, Kingston -- are you?-- Mrs. Cole was saying the other day she wanted something from Kingston
Mrs. Cole has servants to send. Can I do any thing for _you_
No, I thank you. But do come in. Who do you think is here?-- Miss Woodhouse and Miss Smith; so kind as to call to hear the new pianoforte. Do put up your horse at the Crown, and come in
Well
for five minutes, perhaps
And here is Mrs. Weston and Mr. Frank Churchill too!-- Quite delightful; so many friends
No, not now, I thank you. I could not stay two minutes. I must get on to Kingston as fast as I can
Oh! do come in. They will be so very happy to see you
No, no; your room is full enough. I will call another day, and hear the pianoforte
Well, I am so sorry!-- Oh! Mr. Knightley, what a delightful party last night; how extremely pleasant.-- Did you ever see such dancing?-- Was not it delightful?-- Miss Woodhouse and Mr. Frank Churchill; I never saw any thing equal to it
Oh! very delightful indeed; I can say nothing less, for I suppose Miss Woodhouse and Mr. Frank Churchill are hearing every thing that passes. And (raising his voice still more) I do not see why Miss Fairfax should not be mentioned too. I think Miss Fairfax dances very well; and Mrs. Weston is the very best country-dance player, without exception, in England. Now, if your friends have any gratitude, they will say something pretty loud about you and me in return; but I cannot stay to hear it
Oh! Mr. Knightley, one moment more; something of consequence -- so shocked!-- Jane and I are both so shocked about the apples
What is the matter now
To think of your sending us all your store apples. You said you had a great many, and now you have not one left. We really are so shocked! Mrs. Hodges may well be angry. William Larkins mentioned it here. You should not have done it, indeed you should not. Ah! he is off. He never can bear to be thanked. But I thought he would have staid now, and it would have been a pity not to have mentioned. . . . Well, (returning to the room,) I have not been able to succeed. Mr. Knightley cannot stop. He is going to Kingston. He asked me if he could do any thing
Yes
we heard his kind offers, we heard every thing
Oh! yes, my dear, I dare say you might, because you know, the door was open, and the window was open, and Mr. Knightley spoke loud. You must have heard every thing to be sure. &bquo;Can I do any thing for you at Kingston?' said he; so I just mentioned. . . . Oh! Miss Woodhouse, must you be going?-- You seem but just come -- so very obliging of you
You and Miss Smith, and Miss Fairfax, will be three, and the two Miss Coxes five
And there will be the two Gilberts, young Cox, my father, and myself, besides Mr. Knightley. Yes, that will be quite enough for pleasure. You and Miss Smith, and Miss Fairfax, will be three, and the two Miss Coxes five; and for five couple there will be plenty of room
But will there be good room for five couple?-- I really do not think there will
And after all, five couple are not enough to make it worth while to stand up. Five couple are nothing, when one thinks seriously about it. It will not do to _invite_ five couple. It can be allowable only as the thought of the moment
Might not they use both rooms, and dance across the passage
Oh! no
it would be the extreme of imprudence. I could not bear it for Emma!-- Emma is not strong. She would catch a dreadful cold. So would poor little Harriet. So you would all. Mrs. Weston, you would be quite laid up; do not let them talk of such a wild thing. Pray do not let them talk of it. That young man (speaking lower) is very thoughtless. Do not tell his father, but that young man is not quite the thing. He has been opening the doors very often this evening, and keeping them open very inconsiderately. He does not think of the draught. I do not mean to set you against him, but indeed he is not quite the thing
We were too magnificent
We allowed unnecessary room. Ten couple may stand here very well
It would be a crowd -- a sad crowd; and what could be worse than dancing without space to turn in
Very true
it was very bad
I think there will be very tolerable room for ten couple
No, no
you are quite unreasonable. It would be dreadful to be standing so close! Nothing can be farther from pleasure than to be dancing in a crowd -- and a crowd in a little room
There is no denying it
I agree with you exactly. A crowd in a little room -- Miss Woodhouse, you have the art of giving pictures in a few words. Exquisite, quite exquisite!-- Still, however, having proceeded so far, one is unwilling to give the matter up. It would be a disappointment to my father -- and altogether -- I do not know that -- I am rather of opinion that ten couple might stand here very well
Well, Miss Woodhouse
your inclination for dancing has not been quite frightened away, I hope, by the terrors of my father's little rooms. I bring a new proposal on the subject:-- a thought of my father's, which waits only your approbation to be acted upon. May I hope for the honour of your hand for the two first dances of this little projected ball, to be given, not at Randalls, but at the Crown Inn
The Crown
Yes; if you and Mr. Woodhouse see no objection, and I trust you cannot, my father hopes his friends will be so kind as to visit him there. Better accommodations, he can promise them, and not a less grateful welcome than at Randalls. It is his own idea. Mrs. Weston sees no objection to it, provided you are satisfied. This is what we all feel. Oh! you were perfectly right! Ten couple, in either of the Randalls rooms, would have been insufferable!-- Dreadful!-- I felt how right you were the whole time, but was too anxious for securing _any_ _thing_ to like to yield. Is not it a good exchange?-- You consent -- I hope you consent
It appears to me a plan that nobody can object to, if Mr. and Mrs. Weston do not. I think it admirable; and, as far as I can answer for myself, shall be most happy -- It seems the only improvement that could be. Papa, do you not think it an excellent improvement
No; he thought it very far from an improvement -- a very bad plan -- much worse than the other. A room at an inn was always damp and dangerous; never properly aired, or fit to be inhabited. If they must dance, they had better dance at Randalls. He had never been in the room at the Crown in his life -- did not know the people who kept it by sight.-- Oh! no -- a very bad plan. They would catch worse colds at the Crown than anywhere
I was going to observe, sir
that one of the great recommendations of this change would be the very little danger of any body's catching cold -- so much less danger at the Crown than at Randalls! Mr. Perry might have reason to regret the alteration, but nobody else could
Sir
you are very much mistaken if you suppose Mr. Perry to be that sort of character. Mr. Perry is extremely concerned when any of us are ill. But I do not understand how the room at the Crown can be safer for you than your father's house
From the very circumstance of its being larger, sir. We shall have no occasion to open the windows at all -- not once the whole evening; and it is that dreadful habit of opening the windows, letting in cold air upon heated bodies, which (as you well know, sir) does the mischief
Open the windows!-- but surely, Mr. Churchill, nobody would think of opening the windows at Randalls. Nobody could be so imprudent! I never heard of such a thing. Dancing with open windows!-- I am sure, neither your father nor Mrs. Weston (poor Miss Taylor that was) would suffer it
Ah! sir -- but a thoughtless young person will sometimes step behind a window-curtain, and throw up a sash, without its being suspected. I have often known it done myself
Have you indeed, sir?-- Bless me! I never could have supposed it. But I live out of the world, and am often astonished at what I hear. However, this does make a difference; and, perhaps, when we come to talk it over -- but these sort of things require a good deal of consideration. One cannot resolve upon them in a hurry. If Mr. and Mrs. Weston will be so obliging as to call here one morning, we may talk it over, and see what can be done
But, unfortunately, sir, my time is so limited
Oh
there will be plenty of time for talking every thing over. There is no hurry at all. If it can be contrived to be at the Crown, papa, it will be very convenient for the horses. They will be so near their own stable
So they will, my dear. That is a great thing. Not that James ever complains; but it is right to spare our horses when we can. If I could be sure of the rooms being thoroughly aired -- but is Mrs. Stokes to be trusted? I doubt it. I do not know her, even by sight
I can answer for every thing of that nature, sir, because it will be under Mrs. Weston's care. Mrs. Weston undertakes to direct the whole
There, papa!-- Now you must be satisfied -- Our own dear Mrs. Weston, who is carefulness itself. Do not you remember what Mr. Perry said, so many years ago, when I had the measles? &bquo;If _Miss_ _Taylor_ undertakes to wrap Miss Emma up, you need not have any fears, sir.' How often have I heard you speak of it as such a compliment to her
Aye, very true. Mr. Perry did say so. I shall never forget it. Poor little Emma! You were very bad with the measles; that is, you would have been very bad, but for Perry's great attention. He came four times a day for a week. He said, from the first, it was a very good sort -- which was our great comfort; but the measles are a dreadful complaint. I hope whenever poor Isabella's little ones have the measles, she will send for Perry
My father and Mrs. Weston are at the Crown at this moment
examining the capabilities of the house. I left them there and came on to Hartfield, impatient for your opinion, and hoping you might be persuaded to join them and give your advice on the spot. I was desired to say so from both. It would be the greatest pleasure to them, if you could allow me to attend you there. They can do nothing satisfactorily without you
Emma
this paper is worse than I expected. Look! in places you see it is dreadfully dirty; and the wainscot is more yellow and forlorn than any thing I could have imagined
My dear, you are too particular
What does all that signify? You will see nothing of it by candlelight. It will be as clean as Randalls by candlelight. We never see any thing of it on our club-nights
Men never know when things are dirty or not
Women will have their little nonsenses and needless cares
I do not think it _is_ so very small. We shall not be many, you know
You talk a great deal of the length of this passage, my dear. It is a mere nothing after all; and not the least draught from the stairs
I wish
one could know which arrangement our guests in general would like best. To do what would be most generally pleasing must be our object -- if one could but tell what that would be
Yes, very true
very true. You want your neighbours' opinions. I do not wonder at you. If one could ascertain what the chief of them -- the Coles, for instance. They are not far off. Shall I call upon them? Or Miss Bates? She is still nearer.-- And I do not know whether Miss Bates is not as likely to understand the inclinations of the rest of the people as any body. I think we do want a larger council. Suppose I go and invite Miss Bates to join us
Well -- if you please
if you think she will be of any use
You will get nothing to the purpose from Miss Bates
She will be all delight and gratitude, but she will tell you nothing. She will not even listen to your questions. I see no advantage in consulting Miss Bates
But she is so amusing, so extremely amusing! I am very fond of hearing Miss Bates talk. And I need not bring the whole family, you know
Aye, do, Frank.-- Go and fetch Miss Bates, and let us end the matter at once. She will enjoy the scheme, I am sure; and I do not know a properer person for shewing us how to do away difficulties. Fetch Miss Bates. We are growing a little too nice. She is a standing lesson of how to be happy. But fetch them both. Invite them both
Both sir! Can the old lady
The old lady! No, the young lady, to be sure. I shall think you a great blockhead, Frank, if you bring the aunt without the niece
Oh! I beg your pardon, sir. I did not immediately recollect. Undoubtedly if you wish it, I will endeavour to persuade them both
He has asked her, my dear. That's right. I knew he would
Very well. If the Westons think it worth while to be at all this trouble for a few hours of noisy entertainment, I have nothing to say against it, but that they shall not chuse pleasures for me.-- Oh! yes, I must be there; I could not refuse; and I will keep as much awake as I can; but I would rather be at home, looking over William Larkins's week's account; much rather, I confess.-- Pleasure in seeing dancing!-- not I, indeed -- I never look at it -- I do not know who does.-- Fine dancing, I believe, like virtue, must be its own reward. Those who are standing by are usually thinking of something very different
Oh! Miss Woodhouse, I hope nothing may happen to prevent the ball. What a disappointment it would be! I do look forward to it, I own, with _very_ great pleasure
that he could only allow himself time to hurry to Highbury, after breakfast, and take leave of the few friends there whom he could suppose to feel any interest in him; and that he might be expected at Hartfield very soon
I said it would be so
Of all horrid things, leave-taking is the worst
But you will come again
This will not be your only visit to Randalls
Ah!--(shaking his head)-- the uncertainty of when I may be able to return!-- I shall try for it with a zeal!-- It will be the object of all my thoughts and cares!-- and if my uncle and aunt go to town this spring -- but I am afraid -- they did not stir last spring -- I am afraid it is a custom gone for ever
Our poor ball must be quite given up
Ah! that ball!-- why did we wait for any thing?-- why not seize the pleasure at once?-- How often is happiness destroyed by preparation, foolish preparation!-- You told us it would be so.-- Oh! Miss Woodhouse, why are you always so right
Indeed, I am very sorry to be right in this instance. I would much rather have been merry than wise
If I can come again, we are still to have our ball. My father depends on it. Do not forget your engagement
Such a fortnight as it has been
every day more precious and more delightful than the day before!-- every day making me less fit to bear any other place. Happy those, who can remain at Highbury
As you do us such ample justice now
I will venture to ask, whether you did not come a little doubtfully at first? Do not we rather surpass your expectations? I am sure we do. I am sure you did not much expect to like us. You would not have been so long in coming, if you had had a pleasant idea of Highbury
And you must be off this very morning
Yes; my father is to join me here: we shall walk back together, and I must be off immediately. I am almost afraid that every moment will bring him
Not five minutes to spare even for your friends Miss Fairfax and Miss Bates? How unlucky! Miss Bates's powerful, argumentative mind might have strengthened yours
Yes -- I _have_ called there; passing the door, I thought it better. It was a right thing to do. I went in for three minutes, and was detained by Miss Bates's being absent. She was out; and I felt it impossible not to wait till she came in. She is a woman that one may, that one _must_ laugh at; but that one would not wish to slight. It was better to pay my visit, then
In short
perhaps, Miss Woodhouse -- I think you can hardly be quite without suspicion
You are quite in the right; it was most natural to pay your visit, then
It was something to feel that all the rest of my time might be given to Hartfield. My regard for Hartfield is most warm
It was time to go
I shall hear about you all
that is my chief consolation. I shall hear of every thing that is going on among you. I have engaged Mrs. Weston to correspond with me. She has been so kind as to promise it. Oh! the blessing of a female correspondent, when one is really interested in the absent!-- she will tell me every thing. In her letters I shall be at dear Highbury again
Good-bye
I certainly must
This sensation of listlessness, weariness, stupidity, this disinclination to sit down and employ myself, this feeling of every thing's being dull and insipid about the house!-- I must be in love; I should be the oddest creature in the world if I were not -- for a few weeks at least. Well! evil to some is always good to others. I shall have many fellow-mourners for the ball, if not for Frank Churchill; but Mr. Knightley will be happy. He may spend the evening with his dear William Larkins now if he likes
You, Emma, who have so few opportunities of dancing, you are really out of luck; you are very much out of luck
I do not find myself making any use of the word _sacrifice_
In not one of all my clever replies, my delicate negatives, is there any allusion to making a sacrifice. I do suspect that he is not really necessary to my happiness. So much the better. I certainly will not persuade myself to feel more than I do. I am quite enough in love. I should be sorry to be more
_He_ is undoubtedly very much in love -- every thing denotes it -- very much in love indeed!-- and when he comes again, if his affection continue, I must be on my guard not to encourage it.-- It would be most inexcusable to do otherwise, as my own mind is quite made up. Not that I imagine he can think I have been encouraging him hitherto. No, if he had believed me at all to share his feelings, he would not have been so wretched. Could he have thought himself encouraged, his looks and language at parting would have been different.-- Still, however, I must be on my guard. This is in the supposition of his attachment continuing what it now is; but I do not know that I expect it will; I do not look upon him to be quite the sort of man -- I do not altogether build upon his steadiness or constancy.-- His feelings are warm, but I can imagine them rather changeable.-- Every consideration of the subject, in short, makes me thankful that my happiness is not more deeply involved.-- I shall do very well again after a little while -- and then, it will be a good thing over; for they say every body is in love once in their lives, and I shall have been let off easily
I had not a spare moment on Tuesday, as you know, for Miss Woodhouse's beautiful little friend. Pray make my excuses and adieus to her
beautiful little friend
I must not dwell upon it
I must not think of it. I know the danger of indulging such speculations. But stranger things have happened; and when we cease to care for each other as we do now, it will be the means of confirming us in that sort of true disinterested friendship which I can already look forward to with pleasure
Your allowing yourself to be so occupied and so unhappy about Mr. Elton's marrying, Harriet, is the strongest reproach you can make _me_. You could not give me a greater reproof for the mistake I fell into. It was all my doing, I know. I have not forgotten it, I assure you.-- Deceived myself, I did very miserably deceive you -- and it will be a painful reflection to me for ever. Do not imagine me in danger of forgetting it
I have not said, exert yourself Harriet for my sake; think less, talk less of Mr. Elton for my sake; because for your own sake rather, I would wish it to be done, for the sake of what is more important than my comfort, a habit of self-command in you, a consideration of what is your duty, an attention to propriety, an endeavour to avoid the suspicions of others, to save your health and credit, and restore your tranquillity. These are the motives which I have been pressing on you. They are very important -- and sorry I am that you cannot feel them sufficiently to act upon them. My being saved from pain is a very secondary consideration. I want you to save yourself from greater pain. Perhaps I may sometimes have felt that Harriet would not forget what was due -- or rather what would be kind by me
You, who have been the best friend I ever had in my life -- Want gratitude to you!-- Nobody is equal to you!-- I care for nobody as I do for you!-- Oh! Miss Woodhouse, how ungrateful I have been
There is no charm equal to tenderness of heart
There is nothing to be compared to it. Warmth and tenderness of heart, with an affectionate, open manner, will beat all the clearness of head in the world, for attraction, I am sure it will. It is tenderness of heart which makes my dear father so generally beloved -- which gives Isabella all her popularity.-- I have it not -- but I know how to prize and respect it.-- Harriet is my superior in all the charm and all the felicity it gives. Dear Harriet!-- I would not change you for the clearest-headed, longest-sighted, best-judging female breathing. Oh! the coldness of a Jane Fairfax!-- Harriet is worth a hundred such -- And for a wife -- a sensible man's wife -- it is invaluable. I mention no names; but happy the man who changes Emma for Harriet
elegantly dressed, and very pleasing
Well, Miss Woodhouse
Well, Miss Woodhouse, (with a gentle sigh,) what do you think of her?-- Is not she very charming
Oh! yes -- very -- a very pleasing young woman
I think her beautiful, quite beautiful
Very nicely dressed, indeed; a remarkably elegant gown
I am not at all surprized that he should have fallen in love
Oh! no -- there is nothing to surprize one at all.-- A pretty fortune; and she came in his way
I dare say
I dare say she was very much attached to him
Perhaps she might; but it is not every man's fate to marry the woman who loves him best. Miss Hawkins perhaps wanted a home, and thought this the best offer she was likely to have
Yes
and well she might, nobody could ever have a better. Well, I wish them happy with all my heart. And now, Miss Woodhouse, I do not think I shall mind seeing them again. He is just as superior as ever;-- but being married, you know, it is quite a different thing. No, indeed, Miss Woodhouse, you need not be afraid; I can sit and admire him now without any great misery. To know that he has not thrown himself away, is such a comfort!-- She does seem a charming young woman, just what he deserves. Happy creature! He called her &bquo;Augusta.' How delightful
My brother Mr. Suckling's seat
Very like Maple Grove indeed!-- She was quite struck by the likeness!-- That room was the very shape and size of the morning-room at Maple Grove; her sister's favourite room
Was not it astonishingly like?-- She could really almost fancy herself at Maple Grove
And the staircase -- You know, as I came in, I observed how very like the staircase was; placed exactly in the same part of the house. I really could not help exclaiming! I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, it is very delightful to me, to be reminded of a place I am so extremely partial to as Maple Grove. I have spent so many happy months there! (with a little sigh of sentiment). A charming place, undoubtedly. Every body who sees it is struck by its beauty; but to me, it has been quite a home. Whenever you are transplanted, like me, Miss Woodhouse, you will understand how very delightful it is to meet with any thing at all like what one has left behind. I always say this is quite one of the evils of matrimony
So extremely like Maple Grove! And it is not merely the house -- the grounds, I assure you, as far as I could observe, are strikingly like. The laurels at Maple Grove are in the same profusion as here, and stand very much in the same way -- just across the lawn; and I had a glimpse of a fine large tree, with a bench round it, which put me so exactly in mind! My brother and sister will be enchanted with this place. People who have extensive grounds themselves are always pleased with any thing in the same style
When you have seen more of this country, I am afraid you will think you have overrated Hartfield. Surry is full of beauties
Oh! yes, I am quite aware of that. It is the garden of England, you know. Surry is the garden of England
Yes; but we must not rest our claims on that distinction. Many counties, I believe, are called the garden of England, as well as Surry
No, I fancy not
My brother and sister have promised us a visit in the spring, or summer at farthest
and that will be our time for exploring. While they are with us, we shall explore a great deal, I dare say. They will have their barouche-landau, of course, which holds four perfectly; and therefore, without saying any thing of _our_ carriage, we should be able to explore the different beauties extremely well. They would hardly come in their chaise, I think, at that season of the year. Indeed, when the time draws on, I shall decidedly recommend their bringing the barouche-landau; it will be so very much preferable. When people come into a beautiful country of this sort, you know, Miss Woodhouse, one naturally wishes them to see as much as possible; and Mr. Suckling is extremely fond of exploring. We explored to King's-Weston twice last summer, in that way, most delightfully, just after their first having the barouche-landau. You have many parties of that kind here, I suppose, Miss Woodhouse, every summer
No; not immediately here. We are rather out of distance of the very striking beauties which attract the sort of parties you speak of; and we are a very quiet set of people, I believe; more disposed to stay at home than engage in schemes of pleasure
Ah! there is nothing like staying at home for real comfort. Nobody can be more devoted to home than I am. I was quite a proverb for it at Maple Grove. Many a time has Selina said, when she has been going to Bristol, &bquo;I really cannot get this girl to move from the house. I absolutely must go in by myself, though I hate being stuck up in the barouche-landau without a companion; but Augusta, I believe, with her own good-will, would never stir beyond the park paling.' Many a time has she said so; and yet I am no advocate for entire seclusion. I think, on the contrary, when people shut themselves up entirely from society, it is a very bad thing; and that it is much more advisable to mix in the world in a proper degree, without living in it either too much or too little. I perfectly understand your situation, however, Miss Woodhouse -- (looking towards Mr. Woodhouse), Your father's state of health must be a great drawback. Why does not he try Bath?-- Indeed he should. Let me recommend Bath to you. I assure you I have no doubt of its doing Mr. Woodhouse good
My father tried it more than once, formerly; but without receiving any benefit; and Mr. Perry, whose name, I dare say, is not unknown to you, does not conceive it would be at all more likely to be useful now
Ah! that's a great pity; for I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, where the waters do agree, it is quite wonderful the relief they give. In my Bath life, I have seen such instances of it! And it is so cheerful a place, that it could not fail of being of use to Mr. Woodhouse's spirits, which, I understand, are sometimes much depressed. And as to its recommendations to _you_, I fancy I need not take much pains to dwell on them. The advantages of Bath to the young are pretty generally understood. It would be a charming introduction for you, who have lived so secluded a life; and I could immediately secure you some of the best society in the place. A line from me would bring you a little host of acquaintance; and my particular friend, Mrs. Partridge, the lady I have always resided with when in Bath, would be most happy to shew you any attentions, and would be the very person for you to go into public with
but their going to Bath was quite out of the question; and she was not perfectly convinced that the place might suit her better than her father
I do not ask whether you are musical, Mrs. Elton. Upon these occasions, a lady's character generally precedes her; and Highbury has long known that you are a superior performer
Oh! no, indeed; I must protest against any such idea. A superior performer!-- very far from it, I assure you. Consider from how partial a quarter your information came. I am doatingly fond of music -- passionately fond;-- and my friends say I am not entirely devoid of taste; but as to any thing else, upon my honour my performance is _mediocre_ to the last degree. You, Miss Woodhouse, I well know, play delightfully. I assure you it has been the greatest satisfaction, comfort, and delight to me, to hear what a musical society I am got into. I absolutely cannot do without music. It is a necessary of life to me; and having always been used to a very musical society, both at Maple Grove and in Bath, it would have been a most serious sacrifice. I honestly said as much to Mr. E. when he was speaking of my future home, and expressing his fears lest the retirement of it should be disagreeable; and the inferiority of the house too -- knowing what I had been accustomed to -- of course he was not wholly without apprehension. When he was speaking of it in that way, I honestly said that _the_ _world_ I could give up -- parties, balls, plays -- for I had no fear of retirement. Blessed with so many resources within myself, the world was not necessary to _me_. I could do very well without it. To those who had no resources it was a different thing; but my resources made me quite independent. And as to smaller-sized rooms than I had been used to, I really could not give it a thought. I hoped I was perfectly equal to any sacrifice of that description. Certainly I had been accustomed to every luxury at Maple Grove; but I did assure him that two carriages were not necessary to my happiness, nor were spacious apartments. &bquo;But,' said I, &bquo;to be quite honest, I do not think I can live without something of a musical society. I condition for nothing else; but without music, life would be a blank to me
We cannot suppose
that Mr. Elton would hesitate to assure you of there being a _very_ musical society in Highbury; and I hope you will not find he has outstepped the truth more than may be pardoned, in consideration of the motive
No, indeed, I have no doubts at all on that head. I am delighted to find myself in such a circle. I hope we shall have many sweet little concerts together. I think, Miss Woodhouse, you and I must establish a musical club, and have regular weekly meetings at your house, or ours. Will not it be a good plan? If _we_ exert ourselves, I think we shall not be long in want of allies. Something of that nature would be particularly desirable for _me_, as an inducement to keep me in practice; for married women, you know -- there is a sad story against them, in general. They are but too apt to give up music
But you, who are so extremely fond of it -- there can be no danger, surely
I should hope not; but really when I look around among my acquaintance, I tremble. Selina has entirely given up music -- never touches the instrument -- though she played sweetly. And the same may be said of Mrs. Jeffereys -- Clara Partridge, that was -- and of the two Milmans, now Mrs. Bird and Mrs. James Cooper; and of more than I can enumerate. Upon my word it is enough to put one in a fright. I used to be quite angry with Selina; but really I begin now to comprehend that a married woman has many things to call her attention. I believe I was half an hour this morning shut up with my housekeeper
But every thing of that kind
will soon be in so regular a train
Well
we shall see
We have been calling at Randalls
and found them both at home; and very pleasant people they seem to be. I like them extremely. Mr. Weston seems an excellent creature -- quite a first-rate favourite with me already, I assure you. And _she_ appears so truly good -- there is something so motherly and kind-hearted about her, that it wins upon one directly. She was your governess, I think
Having understood as much, I was rather astonished to find her so very lady-like! But she is really quite the gentlewoman
Mrs. Weston's manners
were always particularly good. Their propriety, simplicity, and elegance, would make them the safest model for any young woman
And who do you think came in while we were there
Knightley
Knightley himself!-- Was not it lucky?-- for, not being within when he called the other day, I had never seen him before; and of course, as so particular a friend of Mr. E.'s, I had a great curiosity. &bquo;My friend Knightley' had been so often mentioned, that I was really impatient to see him; and I must do my caro sposo the justice to say that he need not be ashamed of his friend. Knightley is quite the gentleman. I like him very much. Decidedly, I think, a very gentleman-like man
Insufferable woman
Worse than I had supposed. Absolutely insufferable! Knightley!-- I could not have believed it. Knightley!-- never seen him in her life before, and call him Knightley!-- and discover that he is a gentleman! A little upstart, vulgar being, with her Mr. E., and her _caro_ _sposo_, and her resources, and all her airs of pert pretension and underbred finery. Actually to discover that Mr. Knightley is a gentleman! I doubt whether he will return the compliment, and discover her to be a lady. I could not have believed it! And to propose that she and I should unite to form a musical club! One would fancy we were bosom friends! And Mrs. Weston!-- Astonished that the person who had brought me up should be a gentlewoman! Worse and worse. I never met with her equal. Much beyond my hopes. Harriet is disgraced by any comparison. Oh! what would Frank Churchill say to her, if he were here? How angry and how diverted he would be! Ah! there I am -- thinking of him directly. Always the first person to be thought of! How I catch myself out! Frank Churchill comes as regularly into my mind
Well, my dear
considering we never saw her before, she seems a very pretty sort of young lady; and I dare say she was very much pleased with you. She speaks a little too quick. A little quickness of voice there is which rather hurts the ear. But I believe I am nice; I do not like strange voices; and nobody speaks like you and poor Miss Taylor. However, she seems a very obliging, pretty-behaved young lady, and no doubt will make him a very good wife. Though I think he had better not have married. I made the best excuses I could for not having been able to wait on him and Mrs. Elton on this happy occasion; I said that I hoped I _should_ in the course of the summer. But I ought to have gone before. Not to wait upon a bride is very remiss. Ah! it shews what a sad invalid I am! But I do not like the corner into Vicarage Lane
I dare say your apologies were accepted, sir. Mr. Elton knows you
Yes: but a young lady -- a bride -- I ought to have paid my respects to her if possible. It was being very deficient
But, my dear papa, you are no friend to matrimony; and therefore why should you be so anxious to pay your respects to a _bride_? It ought to be no recommendation to _you_. It is encouraging people to marry if you make so much of them
No, my dear, I never encouraged any body to marry, but I would always wish to pay every proper attention to a lady -- and a bride, especially, is never to be neglected. More is avowedly due to _her_. A bride, you know, my dear, is always the first in company, let the others be who they may
Well, papa, if this is not encouragement to marry, I do not know what is. And I should never have expected you to be lending your sanction to such vanity-baits for poor young ladies
My dear, you do not understand me. This is a matter of mere common politeness and good-breeding, and has nothing to do with any encouragement to people to marry
very pleasant and very elegantly dressed
I cannot think there is any danger of it
and when you are better acquainted with Miss Fairfax's situation and understand what her home has been, with Colonel and Mrs. Campbell, I have no idea that you will suppose her talents can be unknown
Oh! but dear Miss Woodhouse, she is now in such retirement, such obscurity, so thrown away.-- Whatever advantages she may have enjoyed with the Campbells are so palpably at an end! And I think she feels it. I am sure she does. She is very timid and silent. One can see that she feels the want of encouragement. I like her the better for it. I must confess it is a recommendation to me. I am a great advocate for timidity -- and I am sure one does not often meet with it.-- But in those who are at all inferior, it is extremely prepossessing. Oh! I assure you, Jane Fairfax is a very delightful character, and interests me more than I can express
You appear to feel a great deal -- but I am not aware how you or any of Miss Fairfax's acquaintance here, any of those who have known her longer than yourself, can shew her any other attention than
My dear Miss Woodhouse, a vast deal may be done by those who dare to act. You and I need not be afraid. If _we_ set the example, many will follow it as far as they can; though all have not our situations. _We_ have carriages to fetch and convey her home, and _we_ live in a style which could not make the addition of Jane Fairfax, at any time, the least inconvenient.-- I should be extremely displeased if Wright were to send us up such a dinner, as could make me regret having asked _more_ than Jane Fairfax to partake of it. I have no idea of that sort of thing. It is not likely that I _should_, considering what I have been used to. My greatest danger, perhaps, in housekeeping, may be quite the other way, in doing too much, and being too careless of expense. Maple Grove will probably be my model more than it ought to be -- for we do not at all affect to equal my brother, Mr. Suckling, in income.-- However, my resolution is taken as to noticing Jane Fairfax.-- I shall certainly have her very often at my house, shall introduce her wherever I can, shall have musical parties to draw out her talents, and shall be constantly on the watch for an eligible situation. My acquaintance is so very extensive, that I have little doubt of hearing of something to suit her shortly.-- I shall introduce her, of course, very particularly to my brother and sister when they come to us. I am sure they will like her extremely; and when she gets a little acquainted with them, her fears will completely wear off, for there really is nothing in the manners of either but what is highly conciliating.-- I shall have her very often indeed while they are with me, and I dare say we shall sometimes find a seat for her in the barouche-landau in some of our exploring parties
Poor Jane Fairfax
You have not deserved this. You may have done wrong with regard to Mr. Dixon, but this is a punishment beyond what you can have merited!-- The kindness and protection of Mrs. Elton!--&bquo;Jane Fairfax and Jane Fairfax.' Heavens! Let me not suppose that she dares go about, Emma Woodhouse-ing me!-- But upon my honour, there seems no limits to the licentiousness of that woman's tongue
dear Miss Woodhouse
She is a riddle, quite a riddle
To chuse to remain here month after month, under privations of every sort! And now to chuse the mortification of Mrs. Elton's notice and the penury of her conversation, rather than return to the superior companions who have always loved her with such real, generous affection
She must have some motive, more powerful than appears, for refusing this invitation
She must be under some sort of penance, inflicted either by the Campbells or herself. There is great fear, great caution, great resolution somewhere.-- She is _not_ to be with the _Dixons_. The decree is issued by somebody. But why must she consent to be with the Eltons?-- Here is quite a separate puzzle
We cannot suppose that she has any great enjoyment at the Vicarage, my dear Emma -- but it is better than being always at home. Her aunt is a good creature, but, as a constant companion, must be very tiresome. We must consider what Miss Fairfax quits, before we condemn her taste for what she goes to
You are right, Mrs. Weston
Miss Fairfax is as capable as any of us of forming a just opinion of Mrs. Elton. Could she have chosen with whom to associate, she would not have chosen her. But (with a reproachful smile at Emma) she receives attentions from Mrs. Elton, which nobody else pays her
Such attentions as Mrs. Elton's, I should have imagined, would rather disgust than gratify Miss Fairfax. Mrs. Elton's invitations I should have imagined any thing but inviting
I should not wonder
if Miss Fairfax were to have been drawn on beyond her own inclination, by her aunt's eagerness in accepting Mrs. Elton's civilities for her. Poor Miss Bates may very likely have committed her niece and hurried her into a greater appearance of intimacy than her own good sense would have dictated, in spite of the very natural wish of a little change
Another thing must be taken into consideration too -- Mrs. Elton does not talk _to_ Miss Fairfax as she speaks _of_ her. We all know the difference between the pronouns he or she and thou, the plainest spoken amongst us; we all feel the influence of a something beyond common civility in our personal intercourse with each other -- a something more early implanted. We cannot give any body the disagreeable hints that we may have been very full of the hour before. We feel things differently. And besides the operation of this, as a general principle, you may be sure that Miss Fairfax awes Mrs. Elton by her superiority both of mind and manner; and that, face to face, Mrs. Elton treats her with all the respect which she has a claim to. Such a woman as Jane Fairfax probably never fell in Mrs. Elton's way before -- and no degree of vanity can prevent her acknowledging her own comparative littleness in action, if not in consciousness
I know how highly you think of Jane Fairfax
Yes
any body may know how highly I think of her
And yet
And yet, perhaps, you may hardly be aware yourself how highly it is. The extent of your admiration may take you by surprize some day or other
Oh! are you there?-- But you are miserably behindhand. Mr. Cole gave me a hint of it six weeks ago
That will never be, however, I can assure you. Miss Fairfax, I dare say, would not have me if I were to ask her -- and I am very sure I shall never ask her
You are not vain, Mr. Knightley. I will say that for you
So you have been settling that I should marry Jane Fairfax
No indeed I have not. You have scolded me too much for match-making, for me to presume to take such a liberty with you. What I said just now, meant nothing. One says those sort of things, of course, without any idea of a serious meaning. Oh! no, upon my word I have not the smallest wish for your marrying Jane Fairfax or Jane any body. You would not come in and sit with us in this comfortable way, if you were married
No, Emma, I do not think the extent of my admiration for her will ever take me by surprize.-- I never had a thought of her in that way, I assure you
Jane Fairfax is a very charming young woman -- but not even Jane Fairfax is perfect. She has a fault. She has not the open temper which a man would wish for in a wife
Well
and you soon silenced Mr. Cole, I suppose
Yes, very soon. He gave me a quiet hint; I told him he was mistaken; he asked my pardon and said no more. Cole does not want to be wiser or wittier than his neighbours
In that respect how unlike dear Mrs. Elton, who wants to be wiser and wittier than all the world! I wonder how she speaks of the Coles -- what she calls them! How can she find any appellation for them, deep enough in familiar vulgarity? She calls you, Knightley -- what can she do for Mr. Cole? And so I am not to be surprized that Jane Fairfax accepts her civilities and consents to be with her. Mrs. Weston, your argument weighs most with me. I can much more readily enter into the temptation of getting away from Miss Bates, than I can believe in the triumph of Miss Fairfax's mind over Mrs. Elton. I have no faith in Mrs. Elton's acknowledging herself the inferior in thought, word, or deed; or in her being under any restraint beyond her own scanty rule of good-breeding. I cannot imagine that she will not be continually insulting her visitor with praise, encouragement, and offers of service; that she will not be continually detailing her magnificent intentions, from the procuring her a permanent situation to the including her in those delightful exploring parties which are to take place in the barouche-landau
Jane Fairfax has feeling
I do not accuse her of want of feeling. Her sensibilities, I suspect, are strong -- and her temper excellent in its power of forbearance, patience, self-controul; but it wants openness. She is reserved, more reserved, I think, than she used to be -- And I love an open temper. No -- till Cole alluded to my supposed attachment, it had never entered my head. I saw Jane Fairfax and conversed with her, with admiration and pleasure always -- but with no thought beyond
Well, Mrs. Weston
what do you say now to Mr. Knightley's marrying Jane Fairfax
Why, really, dear Emma, I say that he is so very much occupied by the idea of _not_ being in love with her, that I should not wonder if it were to end in his being so at last. Do not beat me
I see how it is
I see what a life I am to lead among you. Upon my word we shall be absolutely dissipated. We really seem quite the fashion. If this is living in the country, it is nothing very formidable. From Monday next to Saturday, I assure you we have not a disengaged day!-- A woman with fewer resources than I have, need not have been at a loss
She would rather not be in his company more than she could help. She was not yet quite able to see him and his charming happy wife together, without feeling uncomfortable. If Miss Woodhouse would not be displeased, she would rather stay at home
This is very true
at least as far as relates to me, which was all that was meant -- and it is very shameful.-- Of the same age -- and always knowing her -- I ought to have been more her friend.-- She will never like me now. I have neglected her too long. But I will shew her greater attention than I have done
I hope you did not venture far, Miss Fairfax, this morning, or I am sure you must have been wet.-- We scarcely got home in time. I hope you turned directly
I went only to the post-office
and reached home before the rain was much. It is my daily errand. I always fetch the letters when I am here. It saves trouble, and is a something to get me out. A walk before breakfast does me good
Not a walk in the rain, I should imagine
No, but it did not absolutely rain when I set out
That is to say, you chose to have your walk, for you were not six yards from your own door when I had the pleasure of meeting you; and Henry and John had seen more drops than they could count long before. The post-office has a great charm at one period of our lives. When you have lived to my age, you will begin to think letters are never worth going through the rain for
I must not hope to be ever situated as you are, in the midst of every dearest connexion, and therefore I cannot expect that simply growing older should make me indifferent about letters
Indifferent! Oh! no -- I never conceived you could become indifferent. Letters are no matter of indifference; they are generally a very positive curse
You are speaking of letters of business; mine are letters of friendship
I have often thought them the worst of the two
Business, you know, may bring money, but friendship hardly ever does
Ah! you are not serious now. I know Mr. John Knightley too well -- I am very sure he understands the value of friendship as well as any body. I can easily believe that letters are very little to you, much less than to me, but it is not your being ten years older than myself which makes the difference, it is not age, but situation. You have every body dearest to you always at hand, I, probably, never shall again; and therefore till I have outlived all my affections, a post-office, I think, must always have power to draw me out, in worse weather than to-day
When I talked of your being altered by time, by the progress of years
I meant to imply the change of situation which time usually brings. I consider one as including the other. Time will generally lessen the interest of every attachment not within the daily circle -- but that is not the change I had in view for you. As an old friend, you will allow me to hope, Miss Fairfax, that ten years hence you may have as many concentrated objects as I have
I am very sorry to hear, Miss Fairfax, of your being out this morning in the rain. Young ladies should take care of themselves.-- Young ladies are delicate plants. They should take care of their health and their complexion. My dear, did you change your stockings
Yes, sir, I did indeed; and I am very much obliged by your kind solicitude about me
My dear Miss Fairfax, young ladies are very sure to be cared for.-- I hope your good grand-mama and aunt are well. They are some of my very old friends. I wish my health allowed me to be a better neighbour. You do us a great deal of honour to-day, I am sure. My daughter and I are both highly sensible of your goodness, and have the greatest satisfaction in seeing you at Hartfield
My dear Jane, what is this I hear?-- Going to the post-office in the rain!-- This must not be, I assure you.-- You sad girl, how could you do such a thing?-- It is a sign I was not there to take care of you
Oh! do not tell _me_. You really are a very sad girl, and do not know how to take care of yourself.-- To the post-office indeed! Mrs. Weston, did you ever hear the like? You and I must positively exert our authority
My advice
I certainly do feel tempted to give. Miss Fairfax, you must not run such risks.-- Liable as you have been to severe colds, indeed you ought to be particularly careful, especially at this time of year. The spring I always think requires more than common care. Better wait an hour or two, or even half a day for your letters, than run the risk of bringing on your cough again. Now do not you feel that you had? Yes, I am sure you are much too reasonable. You look as if you would not do such a thing again
Oh! she _shall_ _not_ do such a thing again
We will not allow her to do such a thing again
there must be some arrangement made, there must indeed. I shall speak to Mr. E. The man who fetches our letters every morning (one of our men, I forget his name) shall inquire for yours too and bring them to you. That will obviate all difficulties you know; and from _us_ I really think, my dear Jane, you can have no scruple to accept such an accommodation
You are extremely kind
but I cannot give up my early walk. I am advised to be out of doors as much as I can, I must walk somewhere, and the post-office is an object; and upon my word, I have scarcely ever had a bad morning before
My dear Jane, say no more about it. The thing is determined, that is (laughing affectedly) as far as I can presume to determine any thing without the concurrence of my lord and master. You know, Mrs. Weston, you and I must be cautious how we express ourselves. But I do flatter myself, my dear Jane, that my influence is not entirely worn out. If I meet with no insuperable difficulties therefore, consider that point as settled
Excuse me
I cannot by any means consent to such an arrangement, so needlessly troublesome to your servant. If the errand were not a pleasure to me, it could be done, as it always is when I am not here, by my grandmama's
Oh! my dear; but so much as Patty has to do!-- And it is a kindness to employ our men
The post-office is a wonderful establishment
The regularity and despatch of it! If one thinks of all that it has to do, and all that it does so well, it is really astonishing
It is certainly very well regulated
So seldom that any negligence or blunder appears! So seldom that a letter, among the thousands that are constantly passing about the kingdom, is even carried wrong -- and not one in a million, I suppose, actually lost! And when one considers the variety of hands, and of bad hands too, that are to be deciphered, it increases the wonder
The clerks grow expert from habit.-- They must begin with some quickness of sight and hand, and exercise improves them. If you want any farther explanation
they are paid for it. That is the key to a great deal of capacity. The public pays and must be served well
I have heard it asserted
that the same sort of handwriting often prevails in a family; and where the same master teaches, it is natural enough. But for that reason, I should imagine the likeness must be chiefly confined to the females, for boys have very little teaching after an early age, and scramble into any hand they can get. Isabella and Emma, I think, do write very much alike. I have not always known their writing apart
Yes
there is a likeness. I know what you mean -- but Emma's hand is the strongest
Isabella and Emma both write beautifully
and always did. And so does poor Mrs. Weston
I never saw any gentleman's handwriting
Now, how am I going to introduce him?-- Am I unequal to speaking his name at once before all these people? Is it necessary for me to use any roundabout phrase?-- Your Yorkshire friend -- your correspondent in Yorkshire;-- that would be the way, I suppose, if I were very bad.-- No, I can pronounce his name without the smallest distress. I certainly get better and better.-- Now for it
Mr. Frank Churchill writes one of the best gentleman's hands I ever saw
I do not admire it
It is too small -- wants strength. It is like a woman's writing
No, it by no means wanted strength -- it was not a large hand, but very clear and certainly strong. Had not Mrs. Weston any letter about her to produce
If we were in the other room
if I had my writing-desk, I am sure I could produce a specimen. I have a note of his.-- Do not you remember, Mrs. Weston, employing him to write for you one day
He chose to say he was employed
Well, well, I have that note; and can shew it after dinner to convince Mr. Knightley
Oh! when a gallant young man, like Mr. Frank Churchill
writes to a fair lady like Miss Woodhouse, he will, of course, put forth his best
Must I go first? I really am ashamed of always leading the way
Here is April come
I get quite anxious about you. June will soon be here
But I have never fixed on June or any other month -- merely looked forward to the summer in general
But have you really heard of nothing
I have not even made any inquiry; I do not wish to make any yet
Oh! my dear, we cannot begin too early; you are not aware of the difficulty of procuring exactly the desirable thing
I not aware
dear Mrs. Elton, who can have thought of it as I have done
But you have not seen so much of the world as I have. You do not know how many candidates there always are for the _first_ situations. I saw a vast deal of that in the neighbourhood round Maple Grove. A cousin of Mr. Suckling, Mrs. Bragge, had such an infinity of applications; every body was anxious to be in her family, for she moves in the first circle. Wax-candles in the schoolroom! You may imagine how desirable! Of all houses in the kingdom Mrs. Bragge's is the one I would most wish to see you in
Colonel and Mrs. Campbell are to be in town again by midsummer
I must spend some time with them; I am sure they will want it;-- afterwards I may probably be glad to dispose of myself. But I would not wish you to take the trouble of making any inquiries at present
Trouble! aye, I know your scruples. You are afraid of giving me trouble; but I assure you, my dear Jane, the Campbells can hardly be more interested about you than I am. I shall write to Mrs. Partridge in a day or two, and shall give her a strict charge to be on the look-out for any thing eligible
Thank you, but I would rather you did not mention the subject to her; till the time draws nearer, I do not wish to be giving any body trouble
But, my dear child, the time is drawing near; here is April, and June, or say even July, is very near, with such business to accomplish before us. Your inexperience really amuses me! A situation such as you deserve, and your friends would require for you, is no everyday occurrence, is not obtained at a moment's notice; indeed, indeed, we must begin inquiring directly
Excuse me, ma'am, but this is by no means my intention; I make no inquiry myself, and should be sorry to have any made by my friends. When I am quite determined as to the time, I am not at all afraid of being long unemployed. There are places in town, offices, where inquiry would soon produce something -- Offices for the sale -- not quite of human flesh -- but of human intellect
Oh! my dear, human flesh! You quite shock me; if you mean a fling at the slave-trade, I assure you Mr. Suckling was always rather a friend to the abolition
I did not mean, I was not thinking of the slave-trade
governess-trade, I assure you, was all that I had in view; widely different certainly as to the guilt of those who carry it on; but as to the greater misery of the victims, I do not know where it lies. But I only mean to say that there are advertising offices, and that by applying to them I should have no doubt of very soon meeting with something that would do
Something that would do
Aye, _that_ may suit your humble ideas of yourself;-- I know what a modest creature you are; but it will not satisfy your friends to have you taking up with any thing that may offer, any inferior, commonplace situation, in a family not moving in a certain circle, or able to command the elegancies of life
You are very obliging; but as to all that, I am very indifferent; it would be no object to me to be with the rich; my mortifications, I think, would only be the greater; I should suffer more from comparison. A gentleman's family is all that I should condition for
I know you, I know you; you would take up with any thing; but I shall be a little more nice, and I am sure the good Campbells will be quite on my side; with your superior talents, you have a right to move in the first circle. Your musical knowledge alone would entitle you to name your own terms, have as many rooms as you like, and mix in the family as much as you chose;-- that is -- I do not know -- if you knew the harp, you might do all that, I am very sure; but you sing as well as play;-- yes, I really believe you might, even without the harp, stipulate for what you chose;-- and you must and shall be delightfully, honourably and comfortably settled before the Campbells or I have any rest
You may well class the delight, the honour, and the comfort of such a situation together
they are pretty sure to be equal; however, I am very serious in not wishing any thing to be attempted at present for me. I am exceedingly obliged to you, Mrs. Elton, I am obliged to any body who feels for me, but I am quite serious in wishing nothing to be done till the summer. For two or three months longer I shall remain where I am, and as I am
And I am quite serious too, I assure you
in resolving to be always on the watch, and employing my friends to watch also, that nothing really unexceptionable may pass us
Here comes this dear old beau of mine, I protest!-- Only think of his gallantry in coming away before the other men!-- what a dear creature he is;-- I assure you I like him excessively. I admire all that quaint, old-fashioned politeness; it is much more to my taste than modern ease; modern ease often disgusts me. But this good old Mr. Woodhouse, I wish you had heard his gallant speeches to me at dinner. Oh! I assure you I began to think my caro sposo would be absolutely jealous. I fancy I am rather a favourite; he took notice of my gown. How do you like it?-- Selina's choice -- handsome, I think, but I do not know whether it is not over-trimmed; I have the greatest dislike to the idea of being over-trimmed -- quite a horror of finery. I must put on a few ornaments now, because it is expected of me. A bride, you know, must appear like a bride, but my natural taste is all for simplicity; a simple style of dress is so infinitely preferable to finery. But I am quite in the minority, I believe; few people seem to value simplicity of dress,-- show and finery are every thing. I have some notion of putting such a trimming as this to my white and silver poplin. Do you think it will look well
I could not have believed it even of _him_
Read it, read it
it will give you pleasure; only a few lines -- will not take you long; read it to Emma
Well, he is coming, you see; good news, I think. Well, what do you say to it?-- I always told you he would be here again soon, did not I?-- Anne, my dear, did not I always tell you so, and you would not believe me?-- In town next week, you see -- at the latest, I dare say; for _she_ is as impatient as the black gentleman when any thing is to be done; most likely they will be there to-morrow or Saturday. As to her illness, all nothing of course. But it is an excellent thing to have Frank among us again, so near as town. They will stay a good while when they do come, and he will be half his time with us. This is precisely what I wanted. Well, pretty good news, is not it? Have you finished it? Has Emma read it all? Put it up, put it up; we will have a good talk about it some other time, but it will not do now. I shall only just mention the circumstance to the others in a common way
I hope I shall soon have the pleasure of introducing my son to you
You have heard of a certain Frank Churchill, I presume
and know him to be my son, though he does not bear my name
Oh! yes, and I shall be very happy in his acquaintance. I am sure Mr. Elton will lose no time in calling on him; and we shall both have great pleasure in seeing him at the Vicarage
You are very obliging.-- Frank will be extremely happy, I am sure.-- He is to be in town next week, if not sooner. We have notice of it in a letter to-day. I met the letters in my way this morning, and seeing my son's hand, presumed to open it -- though it was not directed to me -- it was to Mrs. Weston. She is his principal correspondent, I assure you. I hardly ever get a letter
And so you absolutely opened what was directed to her! Oh! Mr. Weston -- (laughing affectedly) I must protest against that.-- A most dangerous precedent indeed!-- I beg you will not let your neighbours follow your example.-- Upon my word, if this is what I am to expect, we married women must begin to exert ourselves!-- Oh! Mr. Weston, I could not have believed it of you
Aye, we men are sad fellows. You must take care of yourself, Mrs. Elton.-- This letter tells us -- it is a short letter -- written in a hurry, merely to give us notice -- it tells us that they are all coming up to town directly, on Mrs. Churchill's account -- she has not been well the whole winter, and thinks Enscombe too cold for her -- so they are all to move southward without loss of time
Indeed!-- from Yorkshire, I think. Enscombe is in Yorkshire
Yes, they are about one hundred and ninety miles from London. a considerable journey
Yes, upon my word, very considerable. Sixty-five miles farther than from Maple Grove to London. But what is distance, Mr. Weston, to people of large fortune?-- You would be amazed to hear how my brother, Mr. Suckling, sometimes flies about. You will hardly believe me -- but twice in one week he and Mr. Bragge went to London and back again with four horses
The evil of the distance from Enscombe
is, that Mrs. Churchill, _as_ _we_ _understand_, has not been able to leave the sofa for a week together. In Frank's last letter she complained, he said, of being too weak to get into her conservatory without having both his arm and his uncle's! This, you know, speaks a great degree of weakness -- but now she is so impatient to be in town, that she means to sleep only two nights on the road.-- So Frank writes word. Certainly, delicate ladies have very extraordinary constitutions, Mrs. Elton. You must grant me that
No, indeed, I shall grant you nothing. I Always take the part of my own sex. I do indeed. I give you notice -- You will find me a formidable antagonist on that point. I always stand up for women -- and I assure you, if you knew how Selina feels with respect to sleeping at an inn, you would not wonder at Mrs. Churchill's making incredible exertions to avoid it. Selina says it is quite horror to her -- and I believe I have caught a little of her nicety. She always travels with her own sheets; an excellent precaution. Does Mrs. Churchill do the same
Depend upon it, Mrs. Churchill does every thing that any other fine lady ever did. Mrs. Churchill will not be second to any lady in the land for
Oh! Mr. Weston, do not mistake me. Selina is no fine lady, I assure you. Do not run away with such an idea
Is not she? Then she is no rule for Mrs. Churchill, who is as thorough a fine lady as any body ever beheld
Mrs. Churchill is not much in my good graces, as you may suspect -- but this is quite between ourselves. She is very fond of Frank, and therefore I would not speak ill of her. Besides, she is out of health now; but _that_ indeed, by her own account, she has always been. I would not say so to every body, Mrs. Elton, but I have not much faith in Mrs. Churchill's illness
If she is really ill, why not go to Bath, Mr. Weston?-- To Bath, or to Clifton
She has taken it into her head that Enscombe is too cold for her. The fact is, I suppose, that she is tired of Enscombe. She has now been a longer time stationary there, than she ever was before, and she begins to want change. It is a retired place. A fine place, but very retired
Aye -- like Maple Grove, I dare say. Nothing can stand more retired from the road than Maple Grove. Such an immense plantation all round it! You seem shut out from every thing -- in the most complete retirement.-- And Mrs. Churchill probably has not health or spirits like Selina to enjoy that sort of seclusion. Or, perhaps she may not have resources enough in herself to be qualified for a country life. I always say a woman cannot have too many resources -- and I feel very thankful that I have so many myself as to be quite independent of society
Frank was here in February for a fortnight
So I remember to have heard. He will find an _addition_ to the society of Highbury when he comes again; that is, if I may presume to call myself an addition. But perhaps he may never have heard of there being such a creature in the world
My dear madam! Nobody but yourself could imagine such a thing possible. Not heard of you!-- I believe Mrs. Weston's letters lately have been full of very little else than Mrs. Elton
When Frank left us
it was quite uncertain when we might see him again, which makes this day's news doubly welcome. It has been completely unexpected. That is, _I_ always had a strong persuasion he would be here again soon, I was sure something favourable would turn up -- but nobody believed me. He and Mrs. Weston were both dreadfully desponding. &bquo;How could he contrive to come? And how could it be supposed that his uncle and aunt would spare him again?' and so forth -- I always felt that something would happen in our favour; and so it has, you see. I have observed, Mrs. Elton, in the course of my life, that if things are going untowardly one month, they are sure to mend the next
Very true, Mr. Weston, perfectly true. It is just what I used to say to a certain gentleman in company in the days of courtship, when, because things did not go quite right, did not proceed with all the rapidity which suited his feelings, he was apt to be in despair, and exclaim that he was sure at this rate it would be _May_ before Hymen's saffron robe would be put on for us. Oh! the pains I have been at to dispel those gloomy ideas and give him cheerfuller views! The carriage -- we had disappointments about the carriage;-- one morning, I remember, he came to me quite in despair
You were mentioning May. May is the very month which Mrs. Churchill is ordered, or has ordered herself, to spend in some warmer place than Enscombe -- in short, to spend in London; so that we have the agreeable prospect of frequent visits from Frank the whole spring -- precisely the season of the year which one should have chosen for it: days almost at the longest; weather genial and pleasant, always inviting one out, and never too hot for exercise. When he was here before, we made the best of it; but there was a good deal of wet, damp, cheerless weather; there always is in February, you know, and we could not do half that we intended. Now will be the time. This will be complete enjoyment; and I do not know, Mrs. Elton, whether the uncertainty of our meetings, the sort of constant expectation there will be of his coming in to-day or to-morrow, and at any hour, may not be more friendly to happiness than having him actually in the house. I think it is so. I think it is the state of mind which gives most spirit and delight. I hope you will be pleased with my son; but you must not expect a prodigy. He is generally thought a fine young man, but do not expect a prodigy. Mrs. Weston's partiality for him is very great, and, as you may suppose, most gratifying to me. She thinks nobody equal to him
And I assure you, Mr. Weston, I have very little doubt that my opinion will be decidedly in his favour. I have heard so much in praise of Mr. Frank Churchill.-- At the same time it is fair to observe, that I am one of those who always judge for themselves, and are by no means implicitly guided by others. I give you notice that as I find your son, so I shall judge of him.-- I am no flatterer
I hope
I have not been severe upon poor Mrs. Churchill. If she is ill I should be sorry to do her injustice; but there are some traits in her character which make it difficult for me to speak of her with the forbearance I could wish. You cannot be ignorant, Mrs. Elton, of my connexion with the family, nor of the treatment I have met with; and, between ourselves, the whole blame of it is to be laid to her. She was the instigator. Frank's mother would never have been slighted as she was but for her. Mr. Churchill has pride; but his pride is nothing to his wife's: his is a quiet, indolent, gentlemanlike sort of pride that would harm nobody, and only make himself a little helpless and tiresome; but her pride is arrogance and insolence! And what inclines one less to bear, she has no fair pretence of family or blood. She was nobody when he married her, barely the daughter of a gentleman; but ever since her being turned into a Churchill she has out-Churchill'd them all in high and mighty claims: but in herself, I assure you, she is an upstart
Only think! well, that must be infinitely provoking! I have quite a horror of upstarts. Maple Grove has given me a thorough disgust to people of that sort; for there is a family in that neighbourhood who are such an annoyance to my brother and sister from the airs they give themselves! Your description of Mrs. Churchill made me think of them directly. People of the name of Tupman, very lately settled there, and encumbered with many low connexions, but giving themselves immense airs, and expecting to be on a footing with the old established families. A year and a half is the very utmost that they can have lived at West Hall; and how they got their fortune nobody knows. They came from Birmingham, which is not a place to promise much, you know, Mr. Weston. One has not great hopes from Birmingham. I always say there is something direful in the sound: but nothing more is positively known of the Tupmans, though a good many things I assure you are suspected; and yet by their manners they evidently think themselves equal even to my brother, Mr. Suckling, who happens to be one of their nearest neighbours. It is infinitely too bad. Mr. Suckling, who has been eleven years a resident at Maple Grove, and whose father had it before him -- I believe, at least -- I am almost sure that old Mr. Suckling had completed the purchase before his death
Well, Emma, I do not believe I have any thing more to say about the boys; but you have your sister's letter, and every thing is down at full length there we may be sure. My charge would be much more concise than her's, and probably not much in the same spirit; all that I have to recommend being comprised in, do not spoil them, and do not physic them
I rather hope to satisfy you both
for I shall do all in my power to make them happy, which will be enough for Isabella; and happiness must preclude false indulgence and physic
And if you find them troublesome, you must send them home again
That is very likely. You think so, do not you
I hope I am aware that they may be too noisy for your father -- or even may be some encumbrance to you, if your visiting engagements continue to increase as much as they have done lately
Increase
Certainly; you must be sensible that the last half-year has made a great difference in your way of life
Difference! No indeed I am not
There can be no doubt of your being much more engaged with company than you used to be. Witness this very time. Here am I come down for only one day, and you are engaged with a dinner-party!-- When did it happen before, or any thing like it? Your neighbourhood is increasing, and you mix more with it. A little while ago, every letter to Isabella brought an account of fresh gaieties; dinners at Mr. Cole's, or balls at the Crown. The difference which Randalls, Randalls alone makes in your goings-on, is very great
Yes
it is Randalls that does it all
Very well -- and as Randalls, I suppose, is not likely to have less influence than heretofore, it strikes me as a possible thing, Emma, that Henry and John may be sometimes in the way. And if they are, I only beg you to send them home
No
that need not be the consequence. Let them be sent to Donwell. I shall certainly be at leisure
Upon my word
you amuse me! I should like to know how many of all my numerous engagements take place without your being of the party; and why I am to be supposed in danger of wanting leisure to attend to the little boys. These amazing engagements of mine -- what have they been? Dining once with the Coles -- and having a ball talked of, which never took place. I can understand you --(nodding at Mr. John Knightley)-- your good fortune in meeting with so many of your friends at once here, delights you too much to pass unnoticed. But you, (turning to Mr. Knightley,) who know how very, very seldom I am ever two hours from Hartfield, why you should foresee such a series of dissipation for me, I cannot imagine. And as to my dear little boys, I must say, that if Aunt Emma has not time for them, I do not think they would fare much better with Uncle Knightley, who is absent from home about five hours where she is absent one -- and who, when he is at home, is either reading to himself or settling his accounts
He had seen a group of old acquaintance in the street as he passed -- he had not stopped, he would not stop for more than a word -- but he had the vanity to think they would be disappointed if he did not call, and much as he wished to stay longer at Hartfield, he must hurry off
So unreasonably early
I think she must be here soon
I have a great curiosity to see Mrs. Elton, I have heard so much of her. It cannot be long, I think, before she comes
I am forgetting that I am not acquainted with her. I have never seen either Mr. or Mrs. Elton. I have no business to put myself forward
But Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax
We thought you were to bring them
I will see that there are umbrellas, sir
Miss Bates must not be forgotten
A very fine young man indeed, Mr. Weston. You know I candidly told you I should form my own opinion; and I am happy to say that I am extremely pleased with him.-- You may believe me. I never compliment. I think him a very handsome young man, and his manners are precisely what I like and approve -- so truly the gentleman, without the least conceit or puppyism. You must know I have a vast dislike to puppies -- quite a horror of them. They were never tolerated at Maple Grove. Neither Mr. Suckling nor me had ever any patience with them; and we used sometimes to say very cutting things! Selina, who is mild almost to a fault, bore with them much better
I have no doubt of its being our carriage with Miss Bates and Jane. Our coachman and horses are so extremely expeditious!-- I believe we drive faster than any body.-- What a pleasure it is to send one's carriage for a friend!-- I understand you were so kind as to offer, but another time it will be quite unnecessary. You may be very sure I shall always take care of _them_
So very obliging of you!-- No rain at all. Nothing to signify. I do not care for myself. Quite thick shoes. And Jane declares -- Well!--(as soon as she was within the door) Well! This is brilliant indeed!-- This is admirable!-- Excellently contrived, upon my word. Nothing wanting. Could not have imagined it.-- So well lighted up!-- Jane, Jane, look!-- did you ever see any thing? Oh! Mr. Weston, you must really have had Aladdin's lamp. Good Mrs. Stokes would not know her own room again. I saw her as I came in; she was standing in the entrance. &bquo;Oh! Mrs. Stokes, ' said I -- but I had not time for more
Very well, I thank you, ma'am. I hope you are quite well. Very happy to hear it. So afraid you might have a headache!-- seeing you pass by so often, and knowing how much trouble you must have. Delighted to hear it indeed. Ah! dear Mrs. Elton, so obliged to you for the carriage!-- excellent time. Jane and I quite ready. Did not keep the horses a moment. Most comfortable carriage.-- Oh! and I am sure our thanks are due to you, Mrs. Weston, on that score. Mrs. Elton had most kindly sent Jane a note, or we should have been.-- But two such offers in one day!-- Never were such neighbours. I said to my mother, &bquo;Upon my word, ma'am --.' Thank you, my mother is remarkably well. Gone to Mr. Woodhouse's. I made her take her shawl -- for the evenings are not warm -- her large new shawl -- Mrs. Dixon's wedding-present.-- So kind of her to think of my mother! Bought at Weymouth, you know -- Mr. Dixon's choice. There were three others, Jane says, which they hesitated about some time. Colonel Campbell rather preferred an olive. My dear Jane, are you sure you did not wet your feet?-- It was but a drop or two, but I am so afraid:-- but Mr. Frank Churchill was so extremely -- and there was a mat to step upon -- I shall never forget his extreme politeness.-- Oh! Mr. Frank Churchill, I must tell you my mother's spectacles have never been in fault since; the rivet never came out again. My mother often talks of your good-nature. Does not she, Jane?-- Do not we often talk of Mr. Frank Churchill?-- Ah! here's Miss Woodhouse.-- Dear Miss Woodhouse, how do you do?-- Very well I thank you, quite well. This is meeting quite in fairy-land!-- Such a transformation!-- Must not compliment, I know (eyeing Emma most complacently)-- that would be rude -- but upon my word, Miss Woodhouse, you do look -- how do you like Jane's hair?-- You are a judge.-- She did it all herself. Quite wonderful how she does her hair!-- No hairdresser from London I think could.-- Ah! Dr. Hughes I declare -- and Mrs. Hughes. Must go and speak to Dr. and Mrs. Hughes for a moment.-- How do you do? How do you do?-- Very well, I thank you. This is delightful, is not it?-- Where's dear Mr. Richard?-- Oh! there he is. Don't disturb him. Much better employed talking to the young ladies. How do you do, Mr. Richard?-- I saw you the other day as you rode through the town -- Mrs. Otway, I protest!-- and good Mr. Otway, and Miss Otway and Miss Caroline.-- Such a host of friends!-- and Mr. George and Mr. Arthur!-- How do you do? How do you all do?-- Quite well, I am much obliged to you. Never better.-- Don't I hear another carriage?-- Who can this be?-- very likely the worthy Coles.-- Upon my word, this is charming to be standing about among such friends! And such a noble fire!-- I am quite roasted. No coffee, I thank you, for me -- never take coffee.-- A little tea if you please, sir, by and bye,-- no hurry -- Oh! here it comes. Every thing so good
How do you like my gown?-- How do you like my trimming?-- How has Wright done my hair
Nobody can think less of dress in general than I do -- but upon such an occasion as this, when every body's eyes are so much upon me, and in compliment to the Westons -- who I have no doubt are giving this ball chiefly to do me honour -- I would not wish to be inferior to others. And I see very few pearls in the room except mine.-- So Frank Churchill is a capital dancer, I understand.-- We shall see if our styles suit.-- A fine young man certainly is Frank Churchill. I like him very well
Oh! you have found us out at last, have you, in our seclusion?-- I was this moment telling Jane, I thought you would begin to be impatient for tidings of us
Jane
That is easy -- but Miss Fairfax does not disapprove it, I suppose
How do you like Mrs. Elton
Not at all
You are ungrateful
Ungrateful!-- What do you mean
No, do not tell me -- I do not want to know what you mean.-- Where is my father?-- When are we to begin dancing
And what are we to do for a proper partner for her
She will think Frank ought to ask her
Do not you dance, Mr. Elton
Most readily, Mrs. Weston, if you will dance with me
Me!-- oh! no -- I would get you a better partner than myself. I am no dancer
If Mrs. Gilbert wishes to dance
I shall have great pleasure, I am sure -- for, though beginning to feel myself rather an old married man, and that my dancing days are over, it would give me very great pleasure at any time to stand up with an old friend like Mrs. Gilbert
Mrs. Gilbert does not mean to dance, but there is a young lady disengaged whom I should be very glad to see dancing -- Miss Smith
Miss Smith!-- oh!-- I had not observed.-- You are extremely obliging -- and if I were not an old married man.-- But my dancing days are over, Mrs. Weston. You will excuse me. Any thing else I should be most happy to do, at your command -- but my dancing days are over
Knightley has taken pity on poor little Miss Smith!-- Very goodnatured, I declare
Jane, Jane, my dear Jane, where are you?-- Here is your tippet. Mrs. Weston begs you to put on your tippet. She says she is afraid there will be draughts in the passage, though every thing has been done -- One door nailed up -- Quantities of matting -- My dear Jane, indeed you must. Mr. Churchill, oh! you are too obliging! How well you put it on!-- so gratified! Excellent dancing indeed!-- Yes, my dear, I ran home, as I said I should, to help grandmama to bed, and got back again, and nobody missed me.-- I set off without saying a word, just as I told you. Grandmama was quite well, had a charming evening with Mr. Woodhouse, a vast deal of chat, and backgammon.-- Tea was made downstairs, biscuits and baked apples and wine before she came away: amazing luck in some of her throws: and she inquired a great deal about you, how you were amused, and who were your partners. &bquo;Oh!' said I, &bquo;I shall not forestall Jane; I left her dancing with Mr. George Otway; she will love to tell you all about it herself to-morrow: her first partner was Mr. Elton, I do not know who will ask her next, perhaps Mr. William Cox.' My dear sir, you are too obliging.-- Is there nobody you would not rather?-- I am not helpless. Sir, you are most kind. Upon my word, Jane on one arm, and me on the other!-- Stop, stop, let us stand a little back, Mrs. Elton is going; dear Mrs. Elton, how elegant she looks!-- Beautiful lace!-- Now we all follow in her train. Quite the queen of the evening!-- Well, here we are at the passage. Two steps, Jane, take care of the two steps. Oh! no, there is but one. Well, I was persuaded there were two. How very odd! I was convinced there were two, and there is but one. I never saw any thing equal to the comfort and style -- Candles everywhere.-- I was telling you of your grandmama, Jane,-- There was a little disappointment.-- The baked apples and biscuits, excellent in their way, you know; but there was a delicate fricassee of sweetbread and some asparagus brought in at first, and good Mr. Woodhouse, not thinking the asparagus quite boiled enough, sent it all out again. Now there is nothing grandmama loves better than sweetbread and asparagus -- so she was rather disappointed, but we agreed we would not speak of it to any body, for fear of its getting round to dear Miss Woodhouse, who would be so very much concerned!-- Well, this is brilliant! I am all amazement! could not have supposed any thing!-- Such elegance and profusion!-- I have seen nothing like it since -- Well, where shall we sit? where shall we sit? Anywhere, so that Jane is not in a draught. Where _I_ sit is of no consequence. Oh! do you recommend this side?-- Well, I am sure, Mr. Churchill -- only it seems too good -- but just as you please. What you direct in this house cannot be wrong. Dear Jane, how shall we ever recollect half the dishes for grandmama? Soup too! Bless me! I should not be helped so soon, but it smells most excellent, and I cannot help beginning
They aimed at wounding more than Harriet
Emma, why is it that they are your enemies
_She_ ought not to be angry with you, I suspect, whatever he may be.-- To that surmise, you say nothing, of course; but confess, Emma, that you did want him to marry Harriet
I did
and they cannot forgive me
I shall not scold you. I leave you to your own reflections
Can you trust me with such flatterers?-- Does my vain spirit ever tell me I am wrong
Not your vain spirit, but your serious spirit.-- If one leads you wrong, I am sure the other tells you of it
I do own myself to have been completely mistaken in Mr. Elton. There is a littleness about him which you discovered, and which I did not: and I was fully convinced of his being in love with Harriet. It was through a series of strange blunders
And, in return for your acknowledging so much, I will do you the justice to say, that you would have chosen for him better than he has chosen for himself.-- Harriet Smith has some first-rate qualities, which Mrs. Elton is totally without. An unpretending, single-minded, artless girl -- infinitely to be preferred by any man of sense and taste to such a woman as Mrs. Elton. I found Harriet more conversable than I expected
Come Miss Woodhouse, Miss Otway, Miss Fairfax, what are you all doing?-- Come Emma, set your companions the example. Every body is lazy! Every body is asleep
I am ready
whenever I am wanted
Whom are you going to dance with
With you, if you will ask me
Will you
Indeed I will. You have shewn that you can dance, and you know we are not really so much brother and sister as to make it at all improper
Brother and sister! no, indeed
Miss Woodhouse -- if you are at leisure -- I have something that I should like to tell you -- a sort of confession to make -- and then, you know, it will be over
It is my duty, and I am sure it is my wish
to have no reserves with you on this subject. As I am happily quite an altered creature in _one_ _respect_, it is very fit that you should have the satisfaction of knowing it. I do not want to say more than is necessary -- I am too much ashamed of having given way as I have done, and I dare say you understand me
Yes
I hope I do
How I could so long a time be fancying myself
It seems like madness! I can see nothing at all extraordinary in him now.-- I do not care whether I meet him or not -- except that of the two I had rather not see him -- and indeed I would go any distance round to avoid him -- but I do not envy his wife in the least; I neither admire her nor envy her, as I have done: she is very charming, I dare say, and all that, but I think her very ill-tempered and disagreeable -- I shall never forget her look the other night!-- However, I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, I wish her no evil.-- No, let them be ever so happy together, it will not give me another moment's pang: and to convince you that I have been speaking truth, I am now going to destroy -- what I ought to have destroyed long ago -- what I ought never to have kept -- I know that very well (blushing as she spoke).-- However, now I will destroy it all -- and it is my particular wish to do it in your presence, that you may see how rational I am grown. Cannot you guess what this parcel holds
Not the least in the world.-- Did he ever give you any thing
No -- I cannot call them gifts; but they are things that I have valued very much
Now
you _must_ recollect
No, indeed I do not
Dear me! I should not have thought it possible you could forget what passed in this very room about court-plaister, one of the very last times we ever met in it!-- It was but a very few days before I had my sore throat -- just before Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley came -- I think the very evening.-- Do not you remember his cutting his finger with your new penknife, and your recommending court-plaister?-- But, as you had none about you, and knew I had, you desired me to supply him; and so I took mine out and cut him a piece; but it was a great deal too large, and he cut it smaller, and kept playing some time with what was left, before he gave it back to me. And so then, in my nonsense, I could not help making a treasure of it -- so I put it by never to be used, and looked at it now and then as a great treat
My dearest Harriet
you make me more ashamed of myself than I can bear. Remember it? Aye, I remember it all now; all, except your saving this relic -- I knew nothing of that till this moment -- but the cutting the finger, and my recommending court-plaister, and saying I had none about me!-- Oh! my sins, my sins!-- And I had plenty all the while in my pocket!-- One of my senseless tricks!-- I deserve to be under a continual blush all the rest of my life.-- Well --(sitting down again)-- go on -- what else
And had you really some at hand yourself? I am sure I never suspected it, you did it so naturally
And so you actually put this piece of court-plaister by for his sake
Lord bless me! when should I ever have thought of putting by in cotton a piece of court-plaister that Frank Churchill had been pulling about! I never was equal to this
Here
here is something still more valuable, I mean that _has_ _been_ more valuable, because this is what did really once belong to him, which the court-plaister never did
This was really his
Do not you remember one morning?-- no, I dare say you do not. But one morning -- I forget exactly the day -- but perhaps it was the Tuesday or Wednesday before _that_ _evening_, he wanted to make a memorandum in his pocket-book; it was about spruce-beer. Mr. Knightley had been telling him something about brewing spruce-beer, and he wanted to put it down; but when he took out his pencil, there was so little lead that he soon cut it all away, and it would not do, so you lent him another, and this was left upon the table as good for nothing. But I kept my eye on it; and, as soon as I dared, caught it up, and never parted with it again from that moment
I do remember it
I perfectly remember it.-- Talking about spruce-beer.-- Oh! yes -- Mr. Knightley and I both saying we liked it, and Mr. Elton's seeming resolved to learn to like it too. I perfectly remember it.-- Stop; Mr. Knightley was standing just here, was not he? I have an idea he was standing just here
Ah! I do not know. I cannot recollect.-- It is very odd, but I cannot recollect.-- Mr. Elton was sitting here, I remember, much about where I am now
Well, go on
Oh! that's all. I have nothing more to shew you, or to say -- except that I am now going to throw them both behind the fire, and I wish you to see me do it
My poor dear Harriet! and have you actually found happiness in treasuring up these things
Yes, simpleton as I was!-- but I am quite ashamed of it now, and wish I could forget as easily as I can burn them. It was very wrong of me, you know, to keep any remembrances, after he was married. I knew it was -- but had not resolution enough to part with them
But, Harriet, is it necessary to burn the court-plaister?-- I have not a word to say for the bit of old pencil, but the court-plaister might be useful
I shall be happier to burn it
It has a disagreeable look to me. I must get rid of every thing.-- There it goes, and there is an end, thank Heaven! of Mr. Elton
And when
will there be a beginning of Mr. Churchill
Well, Harriet, whenever you marry I would advise you to do so and so
I shall never marry
Never marry!-- This is a new resolution
It is one that I shall never change, however
I hope it does not proceed from -- I hope it is not in compliment to Mr. Elton
Mr. Elton indeed
Oh! no
so superior to Mr. Elton
Harriet, I will not affect to be in doubt of your meaning. Your resolution, or rather your expectation of never marrying, results from an idea that the person whom you might prefer, would be too greatly your superior in situation to think of you. Is not it so
Oh! Miss Woodhouse, believe me I have not the presumption to suppose -- Indeed I am not so mad.-- But it is a pleasure to me to admire him at a distance -- and to think of his infinite superiority to all the rest of the world, with the gratitude, wonder, and veneration, which are so proper, in me especially
I am not at all surprized at you, Harriet. The service he rendered you was enough to warm your heart
Service! oh! it was such an inexpressible obligation!-- The very recollection of it, and all that I felt at the time -- when I saw him coming -- his noble look -- and my wretchedness before. Such a change! In one moment such a change! From perfect misery to perfect happiness
It is very natural. It is natural, and it is honourable.-- Yes, honourable, I think, to chuse so well and so gratefully.-- But that it will be a fortunate preference is more that I can promise. I do not advise you to give way to it, Harriet. I do not by any means engage for its being returned. Consider what you are about. Perhaps it will be wisest in you to check your feelings while you can: at any rate do not let them carry you far, unless you are persuaded of his liking you. Be observant of him. Let his behaviour be the guide of your sensations. I give you this caution now, because I shall never speak to you again on the subject. I am determined against all interference. Henceforward I know nothing of the matter. Let no name ever pass our lips. We were very wrong before; we will be cautious now.-- He is your superior, no doubt, and there do seem objections and obstacles of a very serious nature; but yet, Harriet, more wonderful things have taken place, there have been matches of greater disparity. But take care of yourself. I would not have you too sanguine; though, however it may end, be assured your raising your thoughts to _him_, is a mark of good taste which I shall always know how to value
Myself creating what I saw
By the bye
what became of Mr. Perry's plan of setting up his carriage
I did not know that he ever had any such plan
Nay, I had it from you. You wrote me word of it three months ago
Me! impossible
Indeed you did. I remember it perfectly. You mentioned it as what was certainly to be very soon. Mrs. Perry had told somebody, and was extremely happy about it. It was owing to _her_ persuasion, as she thought his being out in bad weather did him a great deal of harm. You must remember it now
Upon my word I never heard of it till this moment
Never! really, never!-- Bless me! how could it be?-- Then I must have dreamt it -- but I was completely persuaded -- Miss Smith, you walk as if you were tired. You will not be sorry to find yourself at home
What is this?-- What is this
about Perry and a carriage? Is Perry going to set up his carriage, Frank? I am glad he can afford it. You had it from himself, had you
No, sir
I seem to have had it from nobody.-- Very odd!-- I really was persuaded of Mrs. Weston's having mentioned it in one of her letters to Enscombe, many weeks ago, with all these particulars -- but as she declares she never heard a syllable of it before, of course it must have been a dream. I am a great dreamer. I dream of every body at Highbury when I am away -- and when I have gone through my particular friends, then I begin dreaming of Mr. and Mrs. Perry
It is odd though
that you should have had such a regular connected dream about people whom it was not very likely you should be thinking of at Enscombe. Perry's setting up his carriage! and his wife's persuading him to it, out of care for his health -- just what will happen, I have no doubt, some time or other; only a little premature. What an air of probability sometimes runs through a dream! And at others, what a heap of absurdities it is! Well, Frank, your dream certainly shews that Highbury is in your thoughts when you are absent. Emma, you are a great dreamer, I think
Why, to own the truth
if I must speak on this subject, there is no denying that Mr. Frank Churchill might have -- I do not mean to say that he did not dream it -- I am sure I have sometimes the oddest dreams in the world -- but if I am questioned about it, I must acknowledge that there was such an idea last spring; for Mrs. Perry herself mentioned it to my mother, and the Coles knew of it as well as ourselves -- but it was quite a secret, known to nobody else, and only thought of about three days. Mrs. Perry was very anxious that he should have a carriage, and came to my mother in great spirits one morning because she thought she had prevailed. Jane, don't you remember grandmama's telling us of it when we got home? I forget where we had been walking to -- very likely to Randalls; yes, I think it was to Randalls. Mrs. Perry was always particularly fond of my mother -- indeed I do not know who is not -- and she had mentioned it to her in confidence; she had no objection to her telling us, of course, but it was not to go beyond: and, from that day to this, I never mentioned it to a soul that I know of. At the same time, I will not positively answer for my having never dropt a hint, because I know I do sometimes pop out a thing before I am aware. I am a talker, you know; I am rather a talker; and now and then I have let a thing escape me which I should not. I am not like Jane; I wish I were. I will answer for it _she_ never betrayed the least thing in the world. Where is she?-- Oh! just behind. Perfectly remember Mrs. Perry's coming.-- Extraordinary dream, indeed
Miss Woodhouse
have your nephews taken away their alphabets -- their box of letters? It used to stand here. Where is it? This is a sort of dull-looking evening, that ought to be treated rather as winter than summer. We had great amusement with those letters one morning. I want to puzzle you again
poor little boys
Nonsense! for shame
I will give it to her -- shall I
No, no, you must not; you shall not, indeed
I did not know that proper names were allowed
Aye, very true, my dear
I was just going to say the same thing. It is time for us to be going indeed. The evening is closing in, and grandmama will be looking for us. My dear sir, you are too obliging. We really must wish you good night
Pray, Emma
may I ask in what lay the great amusement, the poignant sting of the last word given to you and Miss Fairfax? I saw the word, and am curious to know how it could be so very entertaining to the one, and so very distressing to the other
Oh
it all meant nothing; a mere joke among ourselves
The joke
seemed confined to you and Mr. Churchill
My dear Emma
do you think you perfectly understand the degree of acquaintance between the gentleman and lady we have been speaking of
Between Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax? Oh! yes, perfectly.-- Why do you make a doubt of it
Have you never at any time had reason to think that he admired her, or that she admired him
Never, never
Never, for the twentieth part of a moment, did such an idea occur to me. And how could it possibly come into your head
I have lately imagined that I saw symptoms of attachment between them -- certain expressive looks, which I did not believe meant to be public
Oh! you amuse me excessively. I am delighted to find that you can vouchsafe to let your imagination wander -- but it will not do -- very sorry to check you in your first essay -- but indeed it will not do. There is no admiration between them, I do assure you; and the appearances which have caught you, have arisen from some peculiar circumstances -- feelings rather of a totally different nature -- it is impossible exactly to explain:-- there is a good deal of nonsense in it -- but the part which is capable of being communicated, which is sense, is, that they are as far from any attachment or admiration for one another, as any two beings in the world can be. That is, I _presume_ it to be so on her side, and I can _answer_ for its being so on his. I will answer for the gentleman's indifference
I am glad you approve of what I have done
But I thought you would. Such schemes as these are nothing without numbers. One cannot have too large a party. A large party secures its own amusement. And she is a good-natured woman after all. One could not leave her out
Is not this most vexations, Knightley
And such weather for exploring!-- These delays and disappointments are quite odious. What are we to do?-- The year will wear away at this rate, and nothing done. Before this time last year I assure you we had had a delightful exploring party from Maple Grove to Kings Weston
You had better explore to Donwell
That may be done without horses. Come, and eat my strawberries. They are ripening fast
Oh! I should like it of all things
You may depend upon me
I certainly will come. Name your day, and I will come. You will allow me to bring Jane Fairfax
I cannot name a day
till I have spoken to some others whom I would wish to meet you
Oh! leave all that to me. Only give me a carte-blanche.-- I am Lady Patroness, you know. It is my party. I will bring friends with me
I hope you will bring Elton
but I will not trouble you to give any other invitations
Oh! now you are looking very sly. But consider -- you need not be afraid of delegating power to _me_. I am no young lady on her preferment. Married women, you know, may be safely authorised. It is my party. Leave it all to me. I will invite your guests
No
there is but one married woman in the world whom I can ever allow to invite what guests she pleases to Donwell, and that one is
Mrs. Weston, I suppose
No -- Mrs. Knightley;-- and till she is in being, I will manage such matters myself
Ah! you are an odd creature
You are a humourist, and may say what you like. Quite a humourist. Well, I shall bring Jane with me -- Jane and her aunt.-- The rest I leave to you. I have no objections at all to meeting the Hartfield family. Don't scruple. I know you are attached to them
You certainly will meet them if I can prevail; and I shall call on Miss Bates in my way home
That's quite unnecessary; I see Jane every day:-- but as you like. It is to be a morning scheme, you know, Knightley; quite a simple thing. I shall wear a large bonnet, and bring one of my little baskets hanging on my arm. Here,-- probably this basket with pink ribbon. Nothing can be more simple, you see. And Jane will have such another. There is to be no form or parade -- a sort of gipsy party. We are to walk about your gardens, and gather the strawberries ourselves, and sit under trees;-- and whatever else you may like to provide, it is to be all out of doors -- a table spread in the shade, you know. Every thing as natural and simple as possible. Is not that your idea
Not quite. My idea of the simple and the natural will be to have the table spread in the dining-room. The nature and the simplicity of gentlemen and ladies, with their servants and furniture, I think is best observed by meals within doors. When you are tired of eating strawberries in the garden, there shall be cold meat in the house
Well -- as you please; only don't have a great set out. And, by the bye, can I or my housekeeper be of any use to you with our opinion?-- Pray be sincere, Knightley. If you wish me to talk to Mrs. Hodges, or to inspect anything
I have not the least wish for it, I thank you
Well -- but if any difficulties should arise, my housekeeper is extremely clever
I will answer for it, that mine thinks herself full as clever, and would spurn any body's assistance
I wish we had a donkey. The thing would be for us all to come on donkeys, Jane, Miss Bates, and me -- and my caro sposo walking by. I really must talk to him about purchasing a donkey. In a country life I conceive it to be a sort of necessary; for, let a woman have ever so many resources, it is not possible for her to be always shut up at home;-- and very long walks, you know -- in summer there is dust, and in winter there is dirt
You will not find either, between Donwell and Highbury. Donwell Lane is never dusty, and now it is perfectly dry. Come on a donkey, however, if you prefer it. You can borrow Mrs. Cole's. I would wish every thing to be as much to your taste as possible
That I am sure you would. Indeed I do you justice, my good friend. Under that peculiar sort of dry, blunt manner, I know you have the warmest heart. As I tell Mr. E., you are a thorough humourist.-- Yes, believe me, Knightley, I am fully sensible of your attention to me in the whole of this scheme. You have hit upon the very thing to please me
Some very fine morning, he, and Emma, and Harriet, could go very well; and he could sit still with Mrs. Weston, while the dear girls walked about the gardens. He did not suppose they could be damp now, in the middle of the day. He should like to see the old house again exceedingly, and should be very happy to meet Mr. and Mrs. Elton, and any other of his neighbours.-- He could not see any objection at all to his, and Emma's, and Harriet's going there some very fine morning. He thought it very well done of Mr. Knightley to invite them -- very kind and sensible -- much cleverer than dining out.-- He was not fond of dining out
The best fruit in England -- every body's favourite -- always wholesome.-- These the finest beds and finest sorts.-- Delightful to gather for one's self -- the only way of really enjoying them.-- Morning decidedly the best time -- never tired -- every sort good -- hautboy infinitely superior -- no comparison -- the others hardly eatable -- hautboys very scarce -- Chili preferred -- white wood finest flavour of all -- price of strawberries in London -- abundance about Bristol -- Maple Grove -- cultivation -- beds when to be renewed -- gardeners thinking exactly different -- no general rule -- gardeners never to be put out of their way -- delicious fruit -- only too rich to be eaten much of -- inferior to cherries -- currants more refreshing -- only objection to gathering strawberries the stooping -- glaring sun -- tired to death -- could bear it no longer -- must go and sit in the shade
Should not they walk? Would not Mr. Knightley shew them the gardens -- all the gardens?-- She wished to see the whole extent
These are my own concerns. I have a right to talk on such subjects, without being suspected of introducing Robert Martin
His aunt was so much better, that he had not a doubt of getting over to them
Will you be so kind
when I am missed, as to say that I am gone home?-- I am going this moment.-- My aunt is not aware how late it is, nor how long we have been absent -- but I am sure we shall be wanted, and I am determined to go directly.-- I have said nothing about it to any body. It would only be giving trouble and distress. Some are gone to the ponds, and some to the lime walk. Till they all come in I shall not be missed; and when they do, will you have the goodness to say that I am gone
Certainly, if you wish it;-- but you are not going to walk to Highbury alone
Yes -- what should hurt me?-- I walk fast. I shall be at home in twenty minutes
But it is too far, indeed it is, to be walking quite alone. Let my father's servant go with you.-- Let me order the carriage. It can be round in five minutes
Thank you, thank you -- but on no account.-- I would rather walk.-- And for _me_ to be afraid of walking alone!-- I, who may so soon have to guard others
That can be no reason for your being exposed to danger now. I must order the carriage. The heat even would be danger.-- You are fatigued already
I am
I am fatigued; but it is not the sort of fatigue -- quick walking will refresh me.-- Miss Woodhouse, we all know at times what it is to be wearied in spirits. Mine, I confess, are exhausted. The greatest kindness you can shew me, will be to let me have my own way, and only say that I am gone when it is necessary
Oh! Miss Woodhouse, the comfort of being sometimes alone
Such a home, indeed! such an aunt
I do pity you. And the more sensibility you betray of their just horrors, the more I shall like you
You will soon be cooler, if you sit still
As soon as I am cooler I shall go back again. I could very ill be spared -- but such a point had been made of my coming! You will all be going soon I suppose; the whole party breaking up. I met _one_ as I came -- Madness in such weather!-- absolute madness
No -- he should not eat. He was not hungry; it would only make him hotter
I am glad I have done being in love with him. I should not like a man who is so soon discomposed by a hot morning. Harriet's sweet easy temper will not mind it
As soon as my aunt gets well, I shall go abroad
I shall never be easy till I have seen some of these places. You will have my sketches, some time or other, to look at -- or my tour to read -- or my poem. I shall do something to expose myself
That may be -- but not by sketches in Swisserland. You will never go to Swisserland. Your uncle and aunt will never allow you to leave England
They may be induced to go too. A warm climate may be prescribed for her. I have more than half an expectation of our all going abroad. I assure you I have. I feel a strong persuasion, this morning, that I shall soon be abroad. I ought to travel. I am tired of doing nothing. I want a change. I am serious, Miss Woodhouse, whatever your penetrating eyes may fancy -- I am sick of England -- and would leave it to-morrow, if I could
You are sick of prosperity and indulgence. Cannot you invent a few hardships for yourself, and be contented to stay
_I_ sick of prosperity and indulgence! You are quite mistaken. I do not look upon myself as either prosperous or indulged. I am thwarted in every thing material. I do not consider myself at all a fortunate person
You are not quite so miserable, though, as when you first came. Go and eat and drink a little more, and you will do very well. Another slice of cold meat, another draught of Madeira and water, will make you nearly on a par with the rest of us
No -- I shall not stir. I shall sit by you. You are my best cure
We are going to Box Hill to-morrow;-- you will join us. It is not Swisserland, but it will be something for a young man so much in want of a change. You will stay, and go with us
No, certainly not; I shall go home in the cool of the evening
But you may come again in the cool of to-morrow morning
No -- It will not be worth while. If I come, I shall be cross
Then pray stay at Richmond
But if I do, I shall be crosser still. I can never bear to think of you all there without me
These are difficulties which you must settle for yourself. Chuse your own degree of crossness. I shall press you no more
Well;-- if _you_ wish me to stay and join the party, I will
Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse flirted together excessively
How much I am obliged to you
for telling me to come to-day!-- If it had not been for you, I should certainly have lost all the happiness of this party. I had quite determined to go away again
Yes, you were very cross; and I do not know what about, except that you were too late for the best strawberries. I was a kinder friend than you deserved. But you were humble. You begged hard to be commanded to come
Don't say I was cross. I was fatigued. The heat overcame me
It is hotter to-day
Not to my feelings. I am perfectly comfortable to-day
You are comfortable because you are under command
Your command?-- Yes
Perhaps I intended you to say so, but I meant self-command. You had, somehow or other, broken bounds yesterday, and run away from your own management; but to-day you are got back again -- and as I cannot be always with you, it is best to believe your temper under your own command rather than mine
It comes to the same thing. I can have no self-command without a motive. You order me, whether you speak or not. And you can be always with me. You are always with me
Dating from three o'clock yesterday. My perpetual influence could not begin earlier, or you would not have been so much out of humour before
Three o'clock yesterday! That is your date. I thought I had seen you first in February
Your gallantry is really unanswerable. But (lowering her voice)-- nobody speaks except ourselves, and it is rather too much to be talking nonsense for the entertainment of seven silent people
I say nothing of which I am ashamed
I saw you first in February. Let every body on the Hill hear me if they can. Let my accents swell to Mickleham on one side, and Dorking on the other. I saw you first in February
Our companions are excessively stupid. What shall we do to rouse them? Any nonsense will serve. They _shall_ talk. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ordered by Miss Woodhouse (who, wherever she is, presides) to say, that she desires to know what you are all thinking of
Is Miss Woodhouse sure that she would like to hear what we are all thinking of
Oh! no, no
Upon no account in the world. It is the very last thing I would stand the brunt of just now. Let me hear any thing rather than what you are all thinking of. I will not say quite all. There are one or two, perhaps, (glancing at Mr. Weston and Harriet,) whose thoughts I might not be afraid of knowing
It is a sort of thing
which _I_ should not have thought myself privileged to inquire into. Though, perhaps, as the _Chaperon_ of the party -- _I_ never was in any circle -- exploring parties -- young ladies -- married women
Very true, my love, very true. Exactly so, indeed -- quite unheard of -- but some ladies say any thing. Better pass it off as a joke. Every body knows what is due to _you_
It will not do
they are most of them affronted. I will attack them with more address. Ladies and gentlemen -- I am ordered by Miss Woodhouse to say, that she waives her right of knowing exactly what you may all be thinking of, and only requires something very entertaining from each of you, in a general way. Here are seven of you, besides myself, (who, she is pleased to say, am very entertaining already,) and she only demands from each of you either one thing very clever, be it prose or verse, original or repeated -- or two things moderately clever -- or three things very dull indeed, and she engages to laugh heartily at them all
Oh! very well
then I need not be uneasy. &bquo;Three things very dull indeed.' That will just do for me, you know. I shall be sure to say three dull things as soon as ever I open my mouth, shan't I? (looking round with the most good-humoured dependence on every body's assent)-- Do not you all think I shall
Ah! ma'am, but there may be a difficulty. Pardon me -- but you will be limited as to number -- only three at once
Ah!-- well -- to be sure. Yes, I see what she means, (turning to Mr. Knightley,) and I will try to hold my tongue. I must make myself very disagreeable, or she would not have said such a thing to an old friend
I like your plan
Agreed, agreed. I will do my best. I am making a conundrum. How will a conundrum reckon
Low, I am afraid, sir, very low
but we shall be indulgent -- especially to any one who leads the way
No, no
it will not reckon low. A conundrum of Mr. Weston's shall clear him and his next neighbour. Come, sir, pray let me hear it
I doubt its being very clever myself
It is too much a matter of fact, but here it is.-- What two letters of the alphabet are there, that express perfection
What two letters!-- express perfection! I am sure I do not know
Ah! you will never guess. You, (to Emma), I am certain, will never guess.-- I will tell you.-- M. and A.-- Em-ma.-- Do you understand
This explains the sort of clever thing that is wanted, and Mr. Weston has done very well for himself; but he must have knocked up every body else. _Perfection_ should not have come quite so soon
Oh! for myself, I protest I must be excused
Yes, yes, pray pass _me_
_I_ have nothing to say that can entertain Miss Woodhouse, or any other young lady. An old married man -- quite good for nothing. Shall we walk, Augusta
With all my heart. I am really tired of exploring so long on one spot. Come, Jane, take my other arm
Happy couple
How well they suit one another!-- Very lucky -- marrying as they did, upon an acquaintance formed only in a public place!-- They only knew each other, I think, a few weeks in Bath! Peculiarly lucky!-- for as to any real knowledge of a person's disposition that Bath, or any public place, can give -- it is all nothing; there can be no knowledge. It is only by seeing women in their own homes, among their own set, just as they always are, that you can form any just judgment. Short of that, it is all guess and luck -- and will generally be ill-luck. How many a man has committed himself on a short acquaintance, and rued it all the rest of his life
Such things do occur, undoubtedly
You were speaking
I was only going to observe, that though such unfortunate circumstances do sometimes occur both to men and women, I cannot imagine them to be very frequent. A hasty and imprudent attachment may arise -- but there is generally time to recover from it afterwards. I would be understood to mean, that it can be only weak, irresolute characters, (whose happiness must be always at the mercy of chance,) who will suffer an unfortunate acquaintance to be an inconvenience, an oppression for ever
Well, I have so little confidence in my own judgment, that whenever I marry, I hope some body will chuse my wife for me. Will you? (turning to Emma.) Will you chuse a wife for me?-- I am sure I should like any body fixed on by you. You provide for the family, you know, (with a smile at his father). Find some body for me. I am in no hurry. Adopt her, educate her
And make her like myself
By all means, if you can
Very well. I undertake the commission. You shall have a charming wife
She must be very lively, and have hazle eyes. I care for nothing else. I shall go abroad for a couple of years -- and when I return, I shall come to you for my wife. Remember
Now, ma'am
shall we join Mrs. Elton
If you please, my dear. With all my heart. I am quite ready. I was ready to have gone with her, but this will do just as well. We shall soon overtake her. There she is -- no, that's somebody else. That's one of the ladies in the Irish car party, not at all like her.-- Well, I declare
Emma, I must once more speak to you as I have been used to do: a privilege rather endured than allowed, perhaps, but I must still use it. I cannot see you acting wrong, without a remonstrance. How could you be so unfeeling to Miss Bates? How could you be so insolent in your wit to a woman of her character, age, and situation?-- Emma, I had not thought it possible
Nay, how could I help saying what I did?-- Nobody could have helped it. It was not so very bad. I dare say she did not understand me
I assure you she did. She felt your full meaning. She has talked of it since. I wish you could have heard how she talked of it -- with what candour and generosity. I wish you could have heard her honouring your forbearance, in being able to pay her such attentions, as she was for ever receiving from yourself and your father, when her society must be so irksome
Oh
I know there is not a better creature in the world: but you must allow, that what is good and what is ridiculous are most unfortunately blended in her
They are blended
I acknowledge; and, were she prosperous, I could allow much for the occasional prevalence of the ridiculous over the good. Were she a woman of fortune, I would leave every harmless absurdity to take its chance, I would not quarrel with you for any liberties of manner. Were she your equal in situation -- but, Emma, consider how far this is from being the case. She is poor; she has sunk from the comforts she was born to; and, if she live to old age, must probably sink more. Her situation should secure your compassion. It was badly done, indeed! You, whom she had known from an infant, whom she had seen grow up from a period when her notice was an honour, to have you now, in thoughtless spirits, and the pride of the moment, laugh at her, humble her -- and before her niece, too -- and before others, many of whom (certainly _some_,) would be entirely guided by _your_ treatment of her.-- This is not pleasant to you, Emma -- and it is very far from pleasant to me; but I must, I will,-- I will tell you truths while I can; satisfied with proving myself your friend by very faithful counsel, and trusting that you will some time or other do me greater justice than you can do now
How could you be so unfeeling to your father?-- I must, I will tell you truths while I can
The ladies were all at home
Well, my dear, I shall _say_ you are laid down upon the bed, and I am sure you are ill enough
I am afraid Jane is not very well
but I do not know; they _tell_ me she is well. I dare say my daughter will be here presently, Miss Woodhouse. I hope you find a chair. I wish Hetty had not gone. I am very little able -- Have you a chair, ma'am? Do you sit where you like? I am sure she will be here presently
Very happy and obliged
Ah! Miss Woodhouse, how kind you are!-- I suppose you have heard -- and are come to give us joy. This does not seem much like joy, indeed, in me --(twinkling away a tear or two)-- but it will be very trying for us to part with her, after having had her so long, and she has a dreadful headache just now, writing all the morning:-- such long letters, you know, to be written to Colonel Campbell, and Mrs. Dixon. &bquo;My dear, ' said I, &bquo;you will blind yourself'-- for tears were in her eyes perpetually. One cannot wonder, one cannot wonder. It is a great change; and though she is amazingly fortunate -- such a situation, I suppose, as no young woman before ever met with on first going out -- do not think us ungrateful, Miss Woodhouse, for such surprising good fortune --(again dispersing her tears)-- but, poor dear soul! if you were to see what a headache she has. When one is in great pain, you know one cannot feel any blessing quite as it may deserve. She is as low as possible. To look at her, nobody would think how delighted and happy she is to have secured such a situation. You will excuse her not coming to you -- she is not able -- she is gone into her own room -- I want her to lie down upon the bed. &bquo;My dear, ' said I, &bquo;I shall say you are laid down upon the bed:' but, however, she is not; she is walking about the room. But, now that she has written her letters, she says she shall soon be well. She will be extremely sorry to miss seeing you, Miss Woodhouse, but your kindness will excuse her. You were kept waiting at the door -- I was quite ashamed -- but somehow there was a little bustle -- for it so happened that we had not heard the knock, and till you were on the stairs, we did not know any body was coming. &bquo;It is only Mrs. Cole,' said I, &bquo;depend upon it. Nobody else would come so early.' &bquo;Well, ' said she, &bquo;it must be borne some time or other, and it may as well be now.' But then Patty came in, and said it was you. &bquo;Oh!' said I, &bquo;it is Miss Woodhouse: I am sure you will like to see her.'-- &bquo;I can see nobody, ' said she; and up she got, and would go away; and that was what made us keep you waiting -- and extremely sorry and ashamed we were. &bquo;If you must go, my dear,' said I, &bquo;you must, and I will say you are laid down upon the bed
It must be a severe trial to them all. She had understood it was to be delayed till Colonel Campbell's return
So very kind
But you are always kind
always
Where -- may I ask?-- is Miss Fairfax going
To a Mrs. Smallridge -- charming woman -- most superior -- to have the charge of her three little girls -- delightful children. Impossible that any situation could be more replete with comfort; if we except, perhaps, Mrs. Suckling's own family, and Mrs. Bragge's; but Mrs. Smallridge is intimate with both, and in the very same neighbourhood:-- lives only four miles from Maple Grove. Jane will be only four miles from Maple Grove
Mrs. Elton, I suppose, has been the person to whom Miss Fairfax owes
Yes, our good Mrs. Elton. The most indefatigable, true friend. She would not take a denial. She would not let Jane say, &bquo;No;' for when Jane first heard of it, (it was the day before yesterday, the very morning we were at Donwell,) when Jane first heard of it, she was quite decided against accepting the offer, and for the reasons you mention; exactly as you say, she had made up her mind to close with nothing till Colonel Campbell's return, and nothing should induce her to enter into any engagement at present -- and so she told Mrs. Elton over and over again -- and I am sure I had no more idea that she would change her mind!-- but that good Mrs. Elton, whose judgment never fails her, saw farther than I did. It is not every body that would have stood out in such a kind way as she did, and refuse to take Jane's answer; but she positively declared she would _not_ write any such denial yesterday, as Jane wished her; she would wait -- and, sure enough, yesterday evening it was all settled that Jane should go. Quite a surprize to me! I had not the least idea!-- Jane took Mrs. Elton aside, and told her at once, that upon thinking over the advantages of Mrs. Smallridge's situation, she had come to the resolution of accepting it.-- I did not know a word of it till it was all settled
You spent the evening with Mrs. Elton
Yes, all of us; Mrs. Elton would have us come. It was settled so, upon the hill, while we were walking about with Mr. Knightley. &bquo;You _must_ _all_ spend your evening with us,' said she --&bquo;I positively must have you _all_ come
Mr. Knightley was there too, was he
No, not Mr. Knightley; he declined it from the first; and though I thought he would come, because Mrs. Elton declared she would not let him off, he did not;-- but my mother, and Jane, and I, were all there, and a very agreeable evening we had. Such kind friends, you know, Miss Woodhouse, one must always find agreeable, though every body seemed rather fagged after the morning's party. Even pleasure, you know, is fatiguing -- and I cannot say that any of them seemed very much to have enjoyed it. However, _I_ shall always think it a very pleasant party, and feel extremely obliged to the kind friends who included me in it
Miss Fairfax, I suppose, though you were not aware of it, had been making up her mind the whole day
I dare say she had
Whenever the time may come, it must be unwelcome to her and all her friends -- but I hope her engagement will have every alleviation that is possible -- I mean, as to the character and manners of the family
Thank you, dear Miss Woodhouse. Yes, indeed, there is every thing in the world that can make her happy in it. Except the Sucklings and Bragges, there is not such another nursery establishment, so liberal and elegant, in all Mrs. Elton's acquaintance. Mrs. Smallridge, a most delightful woman!-- A style of living almost equal to Maple Grove -- and as to the children, except the little Sucklings and little Bragges, there are not such elegant sweet children anywhere. Jane will be treated with such regard and kindness!-- It will be nothing but pleasure, a life of pleasure.-- And her salary!-- I really cannot venture to name her salary to you, Miss Woodhouse. Even you, used as you are to great sums, would hardly believe that so much could be given to a young person like Jane
Ah! madam
if other children are at all like what I remember to have been myself, I should think five times the amount of what I have ever yet heard named as a salary on such occasions, dearly earned
You are so noble in your ideas
And when is Miss Fairfax to leave you
Very soon, very soon, indeed; that's the worst of it. Within a fortnight. Mrs. Smallridge is in a great hurry. My poor mother does not know how to bear it. So then, I try to put it out of her thoughts, and say, Come ma'am, do not let us think about it any more
Her friends must all be sorry to lose her; and will not Colonel and Mrs. Campbell be sorry to find that she has engaged herself before their return
Yes; Jane says she is sure they will; but yet, this is such a situation as she cannot feel herself justified in declining. I was so astonished when she first told me what she had been saying to Mrs. Elton, and when Mrs. Elton at the same moment came congratulating me upon it! It was before tea -- stay -- no, it could not be before tea, because we were just going to cards -- and yet it was before tea, because I remember thinking -- Oh! no, now I recollect, now I have it; something happened before tea, but not that. Mr. Elton was called out of the room before tea, old John Abdy's son wanted to speak with him. Poor old John, I have a great regard for him; he was clerk to my poor father twenty-seven years; and now, poor old man, he is bed-ridden, and very poorly with the rheumatic gout in his joints -- I must go and see him to-day; and so will Jane, I am sure, if she gets out at all. And poor John's son came to talk to Mr. Elton about relief from the parish; he is very well to do himself, you know, being head man at the Crown, ostler, and every thing of that sort, but still he cannot keep his father without some help; and so, when Mr. Elton came back, he told us what John ostler had been telling him, and then it came out about the chaise having been sent to Randalls to take Mr. Frank Churchill to Richmond. That was what happened before tea. It was after tea that Jane spoke to Mrs. Elton
Aye, I see what you are thinking of, the pianoforte. What is to become of that?-- Very true. Poor dear Jane was talking of it just now.-- &bquo;You must go, ' said she. &bquo;You and I must part. You will have no business here.-- Let it stay, however,' said she; &bquo;give it houseroom till Colonel Campbell comes back. I shall talk about it to him; he will settle for me; he will help me out of all my difficulties.'-- And to this day, I do believe, she knows not whether it was his present or his daughter's
I would not go away without seeing you, but I have no time to spare, and therefore must now be gone directly. I am going to London, to spend a few days with John and Isabella. Have you any thing to send or say, besides the &bquo;love,' which nobody carries
Nothing at all. But is not this a sudden scheme
Yes -- rather -- I have been thinking of it some little time
Well, my dear, and did you get there safely?-- And how did you find my worthy old friend and her daughter?-- I dare say they must have been very much obliged to you for coming. Dear Emma has been to call on Mrs. and Miss Bates, Mr. Knightley, as I told you before. She is always so attentive to them
I am very glad, indeed, my dear, to hear she is to be so comfortably settled. Mrs. Elton is very good-natured and agreeable, and I dare say her acquaintance are just what they ought to be. I hope it is a dry situation, and that her health will be taken good care of. It ought to be a first object, as I am sure poor Miss Taylor's always was with me. You know, my dear, she is going to be to this new lady what Miss Taylor was to us. And I hope she will be better off in one respect, and not be induced to go away after it has been her home so long
Poor Mrs. Churchill! no doubt she had been suffering a great deal: more than any body had ever supposed -- and continual pain would try the temper. It was a sad event -- a great shock -- with all her faults, what would Mr. Churchill do without her? Mr. Churchill's loss would be dreadful indeed. Mr. Churchill would never get over it
Ah! poor woman, who would have thought it
Miss Fairfax was not well enough to write
Miss Fairfax's compliments and thanks, but is quite unequal to any exercise
Indeed, the truth was, that poor dear Jane could not bear to see any body -- any body at all -- Mrs. Elton, indeed, could not be denied -- and Mrs. Cole had made such a point -- and Mrs. Perry had said so much -- but, except them, Jane would really see nobody
dear Jane would not be satisfied without its being sent back; it was a thing she could not take -- and, moreover, she insisted on her saying, that she was not at all in want of any thing
could not stay five minutes, and wanted particularly to speak with her
Can you come to Randalls at any time this morning?-- Do, if it be possible. Mrs. Weston wants to see you. She must see you
Is she unwell
No, no, not at all -- only a little agitated. She would have ordered the carriage, and come to you, but she must see you _alone_, and that you know --(nodding towards her father)-- Humph!-- Can you come
Certainly. This moment, if you please. It is impossible to refuse what you ask in such a way. But what can be the matter?-- Is she really not ill
Depend upon me -- but ask no more questions. You will know it all in time. The most unaccountable business! But hush, hush
Now
now Mr. Weston, do let me know what has happened
No, no
Don't ask me. I promised my wife to leave it all to her. She will break it to you better than I can. Do not be impatient, Emma; it will all come out too soon
Break it to me
Good God!-- Mr. Weston, tell me at once.-- Something has happened in Brunswick Square. I know it has. Tell me, I charge you tell me this moment what it is
No, indeed you are mistaken
Mr. Weston do not trifle with me.-- Consider how many of my dearest friends are now in Brunswick Square. Which of them is it?-- I charge you by all that is sacred, not to attempt concealment
Upon my word, Emma
Your word!-- why not your honour!-- why not say upon your honour, that it has nothing to do with any of them? Good Heavens!-- What can be to be _broke_ to me, that does not relate to one of that family
Upon my honour
it does not. It is not in the smallest degree connected with any human being of the name of Knightley
I was wrong
in talking of its being _broke_ to you. I should not have used the expression. In fact, it does not concern you -- it concerns only myself,-- that is, we hope.-- Humph!-- In short, my dear Emma, there is no occasion to be so uneasy about it. I don't say that it is not a disagreeable business -- but things might be much worse.-- If we walk fast, we shall soon be at Randalls
Who is that gentleman on horseback
I do not know.-- One of the Otways.-- Not Frank;-- it is not Frank, I assure you. You will not see him. He is half way to Windsor by this time
Has your son been with you, then
Oh! yes -- did not you know?-- Well, well, never mind
Yes, Frank came over this morning, just to ask us how we did
Well, my dear
I have brought her, and now I hope you will soon be better. I shall leave you together. There is no use in delay. I shall not be far off, if you want me
I have been as good as my word. She has not the least idea
What is it my dear friend? Something of a very unpleasant nature, I find, has occurred;-- do let me know directly what it is. I have been walking all this way in complete suspense. We both abhor suspense. Do not let mine continue longer. It will do you good to speak of your distress, whatever it may be
Have you indeed no idea
Cannot you, my dear Emma -- cannot you form a guess as to what you are to hear
So far as that it relates to Mr. Frank Churchill, I do guess
You are right. It does relate to him, and I will tell you directly
He has been here this very morning, on a most extraordinary errand. It is impossible to express our surprize. He came to speak to his father on a subject,-- to announce an attachment
More than an attachment, indeed
an engagement -- a positive engagement.-- What will you say, Emma -- what will any body say, when it is known that Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax are engaged;-- nay, that they have been long engaged
Jane Fairfax!-- Good God! You are not serious? You do not mean it
You may well be amazed
You may well be amazed. But it is even so. There has been a solemn engagement between them ever since October -- formed at Weymouth, and kept a secret from every body. Not a creature knowing it but themselves -- neither the Campbells, nor her family, nor his.-- It is so wonderful, that though perfectly convinced of the fact, it is yet almost incredible to myself. I can hardly believe it.-- I thought I knew him
Well
this is a circumstance which I must think of at least half a day, before I can at all comprehend it. What!-- engaged to her all the winter -- before either of them came to Highbury
Engaged since October,-- secretly engaged.-- It has hurt me, Emma, very much. It has hurt his father equally. _Some_ _part_ of his conduct we cannot excuse
I will not pretend _not_ to understand you; and to give you all the relief in my power, be assured that no such effect has followed his attentions to me, as you are apprehensive of
That you may have less difficulty in believing this boast, of my present perfect indifference
I will farther tell you, that there was a period in the early part of our acquaintance, when I did like him, when I was very much disposed to be attached to him -- nay, was attached -- and how it came to cease, is perhaps the wonder. Fortunately, however, it did cease. I have really for some time past, for at least these three months, cared nothing about him. You may believe me, Mrs. Weston. This is the simple truth
Mr. Weston will be almost as much relieved as myself
On this point we have been wretched. It was our darling wish that you might be attached to each other -- and we were persuaded that it was so.-- Imagine what we have been feeling on your account
I have escaped; and that I should escape, may be a matter of grateful wonder to you and myself. But this does not acquit _him_, Mrs. Weston; and I must say, that I think him greatly to blame. What right had he to come among us with affection and faith engaged, and with manners so _very_ disengaged? What right had he to endeavour to please, as he certainly did -- to distinguish any one young woman with persevering attention, as he certainly did -- while he really belonged to another?-- How could he tell what mischief he might be doing?-- How could he tell that he might not be making me in love with him?-- very wrong, very wrong indeed
From something that he said, my dear Emma, I rather imagine
And how could _she_ bear such behaviour! Composure with a witness! to look on, while repeated attentions were offering to another woman, before her face, and not resent it.-- That is a degree of placidity, which I can neither comprehend nor respect
There were misunderstandings between them, Emma; he said so expressly. He had not time to enter into much explanation. He was here only a quarter of an hour, and in a state of agitation which did not allow the full use even of the time he could stay -- but that there had been misunderstandings he decidedly said. The present crisis, indeed, seemed to be brought on by them; and those misunderstandings might very possibly arise from the impropriety of his conduct
Impropriety! Oh! Mrs. Weston -- it is too calm a censure. Much, much beyond impropriety!-- It has sunk him, I cannot say how it has sunk him in my opinion. So unlike what a man should be!-- None of that upright integrity, that strict adherence to truth and principle, that disdain of trick and littleness, which a man should display in every transaction of his life
Nay, dear Emma, now I must take his part; for though he has been wrong in this instance, I have known him long enough to answer for his having many, very many, good qualities; and
Good God
Mrs. Smallridge, too! Jane actually on the point of going as governess! What could he mean by such horrible indelicacy? To suffer her to engage herself -- to suffer her even to think of such a measure
He knew nothing about it, Emma. On this article I can fully acquit him. It was a private resolution of hers, not communicated to him -- or at least not communicated in a way to carry conviction.-- Till yesterday, I know he said he was in the dark as to her plans. They burst on him, I do not know how, but by some letter or message -- and it was the discovery of what she was doing, of this very project of hers, which determined him to come forward at once, own it all to his uncle, throw himself on his kindness, and, in short, put an end to the miserable state of concealment that had been carrying on so long
I am to hear from him soon
He told me at parting, that he should soon write; and he spoke in a manner which seemed to promise me many particulars that could not be given now. Let us wait, therefore, for this letter. It may bring many extenuations. It may make many things intelligible and excusable which now are not to be understood. Don't let us be severe, don't let us be in a hurry to condemn him. Let us have patience. I must love him; and now that I am satisfied on one point, the one material point, I am sincerely anxious for its all turning out well, and ready to hope that it may. They must both have suffered a great deal under such a system of secresy and concealment
_His_ sufferings
do not appear to have done him much harm. Well, and how did Mr. Churchill take it
Most favourably for his nephew -- gave his consent with scarcely a difficulty. Conceive what the events of a week have done in that family! While poor Mrs. Churchill lived, I suppose there could not have been a hope, a chance, a possibility;-- but scarcely are her remains at rest in the family vault, than her husband is persuaded to act exactly opposite to what she would have required. What a blessing it is, when undue influence does not survive the grave!-- He gave his consent with very little persuasion
Ah
he would have done as much for Harriet
This was settled last night, and Frank was off with the light this morning. He stopped at Highbury, at the Bates's, I fancy, some time -- and then came on hither; but was in such a hurry to get back to his uncle, to whom he is just now more necessary than ever, that, as I tell you, he could stay with us but a quarter of an hour.-- He was very much agitated -- very much, indeed -- to a degree that made him appear quite a different creature from any thing I had ever seen him before.-- In addition to all the rest, there had been the shock of finding her so very unwell, which he had had no previous suspicion of -- and there was every appearance of his having been feeling a great deal
And do you really believe the affair to have been carrying on with such perfect secresy?-- The Campbells, the Dixons, did none of them know of the engagement
None; not one. He positively said that it had been known to no being in the world but their two selves
Well
I suppose we shall gradually grow reconciled to the idea, and I wish them very happy. But I shall always think it a very abominable sort of proceeding. What has it been but a system of hypocrisy and deceit,-- espionage, and treachery?-- To come among us with professions of openness and simplicity; and such a league in secret to judge us all!-- Here have we been, the whole winter and spring, completely duped, fancying ourselves all on an equal footing of truth and honour, with two people in the midst of us who may have been carrying round, comparing and sitting in judgment on sentiments and words that were never meant for both to hear.-- They must take the consequence, if they have heard each other spoken of in a way not perfectly agreeable
I am quite easy on that head
I am very sure that I never said any thing of either to the other, which both might not have heard
You are in luck.-- Your only blunder was confined to my ear, when you imagined a certain friend of ours in love with the lady
True. But as I have always had a thoroughly good opinion of Miss Fairfax, I never could, under any blunder, have spoken ill of her; and as to speaking ill of him, there I must have been safe
Now, dearest Emma, let me intreat you to say and look every thing that may set his heart at ease, and incline him to be satisfied with the match. Let us make the best of it -- and, indeed, almost every thing may be fairly said in her favour. It is not a connexion to gratify; but if Mr. Churchill does not feel that, why should we? and it may be a very fortunate circumstance for him, for Frank, I mean, that he should have attached himself to a girl of such steadiness of character and good judgment as I have always given her credit for -- and still am disposed to give her credit for, in spite of this one great deviation from the strict rule of right. And how much may be said in her situation for even that error
Much, indeed
If a woman can ever be excused for thinking only of herself, it is in a situation like Jane Fairfax's.-- Of such, one may almost say, that &bquo;the world is not their's, nor the world's law
A very pretty trick you have been playing me, upon my word! This was a device, I suppose, to sport with my curiosity, and exercise my talent of guessing. But you really frightened me. I thought you had lost half your property, at least. And here, instead of its being a matter of condolence, it turns out to be one of congratulation.-- I congratulate you, Mr. Weston, with all my heart, on the prospect of having one of the most lovely and accomplished young women in England for your daughter
Harriet, poor Harriet
Emma, you have been no friend to Harriet Smith
But, with common sense
I am afraid I have had little to do
For the present, the whole affair was to be completely a secret. Mr. Churchill had made a point of it, as a token of respect to the wife he had so very recently lost; and every body admitted it to be no more than due decorum
Well, Miss Woodhouse
is not this the oddest news that ever was
What news do you mean
About Jane Fairfax. Did you ever hear any thing so strange? Oh!-- you need not be afraid of owning it to me, for Mr. Weston has told me himself. I met him just now. He told me it was to be a great secret; and, therefore, I should not think of mentioning it to any body but you, but he said you knew it
What did Mr. Weston tell you
Oh! he told me all about it; that Jane Fairfax and Mr. Frank Churchill are to be married, and that they have been privately engaged to one another this long while. How very odd
Had you any idea
of his being in love with her?-- You, perhaps, might.-- You (blushing as she spoke) who can see into every body's heart; but nobody else
Upon my word
I begin to doubt my having any such talent. Can you seriously ask me, Harriet, whether I imagined him attached to another woman at the very time that I was -- tacitly, if not openly -- encouraging you to give way to your own feelings?-- I never had the slightest suspicion, till within the last hour, of Mr. Frank Churchill's having the least regard for Jane Fairfax. You may be very sure that if I had, I should have cautioned you accordingly
Me
Why should you caution me?-- You do not think I care about Mr. Frank Churchill
I am delighted to hear you speak so stoutly on the subject
but you do not mean to deny that there was a time -- and not very distant either -- when you gave me reason to understand that you did care about him
Him!-- never, never. Dear Miss Woodhouse, how could you so mistake me
Harriet
What do you mean?-- Good Heaven! what do you mean?-- Mistake you!-- Am I to suppose then
I should not have thought it possible
that you could have misunderstood me! I know we agreed never to name him -- but considering how infinitely superior he is to every body else, I should not have thought it possible that I could be supposed to mean any other person. Mr. Frank Churchill, indeed! I do not know who would ever look at him in the company of the other. I hope I have a better taste than to think of Mr. Frank Churchill, who is like nobody by his side. And that you should have been so mistaken, is amazing!-- I am sure, but for believing that you entirely approved and meant to encourage me in my attachment, I should have considered it at first too great a presumption almost, to dare to think of him. At first, if you had not told me that more wonderful things had happened; that there had been matches of greater disparity (those were your very words);-- I should not have dared to give way to -- I should not have thought it possible -- But if _you_, who had been always acquainted with him
Harriet
Let us understand each other now, without the possibility of farther mistake. Are you speaking of -- Mr. Knightley
To be sure I am. I never could have an idea of any body else -- and so I thought you knew. When we talked about him, it was as clear as possible
Not quite
for all that you then said, appeared to me to relate to a different person. I could almost assert that you had _named_ Mr. Frank Churchill. I am sure the service Mr. Frank Churchill had rendered you, in protecting you from the gipsies, was spoken of
Oh! Miss Woodhouse, how you do forget
My dear Harriet, I perfectly remember the substance of what I said on the occasion. I told you that I did not wonder at your attachment; that considering the service he had rendered you, it was extremely natural:-- and you agreed to it, expressing yourself very warmly as to your sense of that service, and mentioning even what your sensations had been in seeing him come forward to your rescue.-- The impression of it is strong on my memory
Oh, dear
now I recollect what you mean; but I was thinking of something very different at the time. It was not the gipsies -- it was not Mr. Frank Churchill that I meant. No! (with some elevation) I was thinking of a much more precious circumstance -- of Mr. Knightley's coming and asking me to dance, when Mr. Elton would not stand up with me; and when there was no other partner in the room. That was the kind action; that was the noble benevolence and generosity; that was the service which made me begin to feel how superior he was to every other being upon earth
Good God
this has been a most unfortunate -- most deplorable mistake!-- What is to be done
You would not have encouraged me, then, if you had understood me? At least, however, I cannot be worse off than I should have been, if the other had been the person; and now -- it _is_ possible
I do not wonder, Miss Woodhouse
that you should feel a great difference between the two, as to me or as to any body. You must think one five hundred million times more above me than the other. But I hope, Miss Woodhouse, that supposing -- that if -- strange as it may appear --. But you know they were your own words, that _more_ wonderful things had happened, matches of _greater_ disparity had taken place than between Mr. Frank Churchill and me; and, therefore, it seems as if such a thing even as this, may have occurred before -- and if I should be so fortunate, beyond expression, as to -- if Mr. Knightley should really -- if _he_ does not mind the disparity, I hope, dear Miss Woodhouse, you will not set yourself against it, and try to put difficulties in the way. But you are too good for that, I am sure
Have you any idea of Mr. Knightley's returning your affection
Yes
I must say that I have
Mr. Martin! No indeed!-- There was not a hint of Mr. Martin. I hope I know better now, than to care for Mr. Martin, or to be suspected of it
I never should have presumed to think of it at first
but for you. You told me to observe him carefully, and let his behaviour be the rule of mine -- and so I have. But now I seem to feel that I may deserve him; and that if he does chuse me, it will not be any thing so very wonderful
Harriet, I will only venture to declare, that Mr. Knightley is the last man in the world, who would intentionally give any woman the idea of his feeling for her more than he really does
She could not compose herself -- Mr. Woodhouse would be alarmed -- she had better go
Oh God! that I had never seen her
such things
always got about
On the misery of what she had suffered, during the concealment of so many months
she was energetic. This was one of her expressions. &bquo;I will not say, that since I entered into the engagement I have not had some happy moments; but I can say, that I have never known the blessing of one tranquil hour:'-- and the quivering lip, Emma, which uttered it, was an attestation that I felt at my heart
Poor girl
She thinks herself wrong, then, for having consented to a private engagement
Wrong! No one, I believe, can blame her more than she is disposed to blame herself. &bquo;The consequence, ' said she, &bquo;has been a state of perpetual suffering to me; and so it ought. But after all the punishment that misconduct can bring, it is still not less misconduct. Pain is no expiation. I never can be blameless. I have been acting contrary to all my sense of right; and the fortunate turn that every thing has taken, and the kindness I am now receiving, is what my conscience tells me ought not to be.' &bquo;Do not imagine, madam,' she continued, &bquo;that I was taught wrong. Do not let any reflection fall on the principles or the care of the friends who brought me up. The error has been all my own; and I do assure you that, with all the excuse that present circumstances may appear to give, I shall yet dread making the story known to Colonel Campbell
Poor girl
She loves him then excessively, I suppose. It must have been from attachment only, that she could be led to form the engagement. Her affection must have overpowered her judgment
Yes, I have no doubt of her being extremely attached to him
I am afraid
that I must often have contributed to make her unhappy
On your side, my love, it was very innocently done. But she probably had something of that in her thoughts, when alluding to the misunderstandings which he had given us hints of before. One natural consequence of the evil she had involved herself in
was that of making her _unreasonable_. The consciousness of having done amiss, had exposed her to a thousand inquietudes, and made her captious and irritable to a degree that must have been -- that had been -- hard for him to bear. &bquo;I did not make the allowances, ' said she, &bquo;which I ought to have done, for his temper and spirits -- his delightful spirits, and that gaiety, that playfulness of disposition, which, under any other circumstances, would, I am sure, have been as constantly bewitching to me, as they were at first.' She then began to speak of you, and of the great kindness you had shewn her during her illness; and with a blush which shewed me how it was all connected, desired me, whenever I had an opportunity, to thank you -- I could not thank you too much -- for every wish and every endeavour to do her good. She was sensible that you had never received any proper acknowledgment from herself
If I did not know her to be happy now
which, in spite of every little drawback from her scrupulous conscience, she must be, I could not bear these thanks;-- for, oh! Mrs. Weston, if there were an account drawn up of the evil and the good I have done Miss Fairfax!-- Well (checking herself, and trying to be more lively), this is all to be forgotten. You are very kind to bring me these interesting particulars. They shew her to the greatest advantage. I am sure she is very good -- I hope she will be very happy. It is fit that the fortune should be on his side, for I think the merit will be all on hers
We have not yet had the letter we are so anxious for, you know, but I hope it will soon come
Are you well, my Emma
Oh! perfectly. I am always well, you know. Be sure to give me intelligence of the letter as soon as possible
He had just looked into the dining-room, and as he was not wanted there, preferred being out of doors
You have some news to hear, now you are come back, that will rather surprize you
Have I
of what nature
Oh! the best nature in the world -- a wedding
If you mean Miss Fairfax and Frank Churchill, I have heard that already
How is it possible
I had a few lines on parish business from Mr. Weston this morning, and at the end of them he gave me a brief account of what had happened
_You_ probably have been less surprized than any of us, for you have had your suspicions.-- I have not forgotten that you once tried to give me a caution.-- I wish I had attended to it -- but --(with a sinking voice and a heavy sigh) I seem to have been doomed to blindness
Time, my dearest Emma, time will heal the wound.-- Your own excellent sense -- your exertions for your father's sake -- I know you will not allow yourself
The feelings of the warmest friendship -- Indignation -- Abominable scoundrel
He will soon be gone. They will soon be in Yorkshire. I am sorry for _her_. She deserves a better fate
You are very kind -- but you are mistaken -- and I must set you right.-- I am not in want of that sort of compassion. My blindness to what was going on, led me to act by them in a way that I must always be ashamed of, and I was very foolishly tempted to say and do many things which may well lay me open to unpleasant conjectures, but I have no other reason to regret that I was not in the secret earlier
Emma
are you, indeed
No, no, I understand you -- forgive me -- I am pleased that you can say even so much.-- He is no object of regret, indeed! and it will not be very long, I hope, before that becomes the acknowledgment of more than your reason.-- Fortunate that your affections were not farther entangled!-- I could never, I confess, from your manners, assure myself as to the degree of what you felt -- I could only be certain that there was a preference -- and a preference which I never believed him to deserve.-- He is a disgrace to the name of man.-- And is he to be rewarded with that sweet young woman?-- Jane, Jane, you will be a miserable creature
Mr. Knightley
I am in a very extraordinary situation. I cannot let you continue in your error; and yet, perhaps, since my manners gave such an impression, I have as much reason to be ashamed of confessing that I never have been at all attached to the person we are speaking of, as it might be natural for a woman to feel in confessing exactly the reverse.-- But I never have
I have very little to say for my own conduct.-- I was tempted by his attentions, and allowed myself to appear pleased.-- An old story, probably -- a common case -- and no more than has happened to hundreds of my sex before; and yet it may not be the more excusable in one who sets up as I do for Understanding. Many circumstances assisted the temptation. He was the son of Mr. Weston -- he was continually here -- I always found him very pleasant -- and, in short, for (with a sigh) let me swell out the causes ever so ingeniously, they all centre in this at last -- my vanity was flattered, and I allowed his attentions. Latterly, however -- for some time, indeed -- I have had no idea of their meaning any thing.-- I thought them a habit, a trick, nothing that called for seriousness on my side. He has imposed on me, but he has not injured me. I have never been attached to him. And now I can tolerably comprehend his behaviour. He never wished to attach me. It was merely a blind to conceal his real situation with another.-- It was his object to blind all about him; and no one, I am sure, could be more effectually blinded than myself -- except that I was _not_ blinded -- that it was my good fortune -- that, in short, I was somehow or other safe from him
I have never had a high opinion of Frank Churchill.-- I can suppose, however, that I may have underrated him. My acquaintance with him has been but trifling.-- And even if I have not underrated him hitherto, he may yet turn out well.-- With such a woman he has a chance.-- I have no motive for wishing him ill -- and for her sake, whose happiness will be involved in his good character and conduct, I shall certainly wish him well
I have no doubt of their being happy together
I believe them to be very mutually and very sincerely attached
He is a most fortunate man
So early in life -- at three-and-twenty -- a period when, if a man chuses a wife, he generally chuses ill. At three-and-twenty to have drawn such a prize! What years of felicity that man, in all human calculation, has before him!-- Assured of the love of such a woman -- the disinterested love, for Jane Fairfax's character vouches for her disinterestedness; every thing in his favour,-- equality of situation -- I mean, as far as regards society, and all the habits and manners that are important; equality in every point but one -- and that one, since the purity of her heart is not to be doubted, such as must increase his felicity, for it will be his to bestow the only advantages she wants.-- A man would always wish to give a woman a better home than the one he takes her from; and he who can do it, where there is no doubt of _her_ regard, must, I think, be the happiest of mortals.-- Frank Churchill is, indeed, the favourite of fortune. Every thing turns out for his good.-- He meets with a young woman at a watering-place, gains her affection, cannot even weary her by negligent treatment -- and had he and all his family sought round the world for a perfect wife for him, they could not have found her superior.-- His aunt is in the way.-- His aunt dies.-- He has only to speak.-- His friends are eager to promote his happiness.-- He had used every body ill -- and they are all delighted to forgive him.-- He is a fortunate man indeed
You speak as if you envied him
And I do envy him, Emma. In one respect he is the object of my envy
You will not ask me what is the point of envy.-- You are determined, I see, to have no curiosity.-- You are wise -- but _I_ cannot be wise. Emma, I must tell you what you will not ask, though I may wish it unsaid the next moment
Oh! then, don't speak it, don't speak it
Take a little time, consider, do not commit yourself
Thank you
You are going in, I suppose
No
I should like to take another turn. Mr. Perry is not gone
I stopped you ungraciously, just now, Mr. Knightley, and, I am afraid, gave you pain.-- But if you have any wish to speak openly to me as a friend, or to ask my opinion of any thing that you may have in contemplation -- as a friend, indeed, you may command me.-- I will hear whatever you like. I will tell you exactly what I think
As a friend
Emma, that I fear is a word -- No, I have no wish -- Stay, yes, why should I hesitate?-- I have gone too far already for concealment.-- Emma, I accept your offer -- Extraordinary as it may seem, I accept it, and refer myself to you as a friend.-- Tell me, then, have I no chance of ever succeeding
My dearest Emma
for dearest you will always be, whatever the event of this hour's conversation, my dearest, most beloved Emma -- tell me at once. Say &bquo;No,' if it is to be said
You are silent
absolutely silent! at present I ask no more
I cannot make speeches, Emma
If I loved you less, I might be able to talk about it more. But you know what I am.-- You hear nothing but truth from me.-- I have blamed you, and lectured you, and you have borne it as no other woman in England would have borne it.-- Bear with the truths I would tell you now, dearest Emma, as well as you have borne with them. The manner, perhaps, may have as little to recommend them. God knows, I have been a very indifferent lover.-- But you understand me.-- Yes, you see, you understand my feelings -- and will return them if you can. At present, I ask only to hear, once to hear your voice
A. W
If I made myself intelligible yesterday, this letter will be expected; but expected or not, I know it will be read with candour and indulgence.-- You are all goodness, and I believe there will be need of even all your goodness to allow for some parts of my past conduct.-- But I have been forgiven by one who had still more to resent. My courage rises while I write. It is very difficult for the prosperous to be humble. I have already met with such success in two applications for pardon, that I may be in danger of thinking myself too sure of yours, and of those among your friends who have had any ground of offence.-- You must all endeavour to comprehend the exact nature of my situation when I first arrived at Randalls; you must consider me as having a secret which was to be kept at all hazards. This was the fact. My right to place myself in a situation requiring such concealment, is another question. I shall not discuss it here. For my temptation to _think_ it a right, I refer every caviller to a brick house, sashed windows below, and casements above, in Highbury. I dared not address her openly; my difficulties in the then state of Enscombe must be too well known to require definition; and I was fortunate enough to prevail, before we parted at Weymouth, and to induce the most upright female mind in the creation to stoop in charity to a secret engagement.-- Had she refused, I should have gone mad.-- But you will be ready to say, what was your hope in doing this?-- What did you look forward to?-- To any thing, every thing -- to time, chance, circumstance, slow effects, sudden bursts, perseverance and weariness, health and sickness. Every possibility of good was before me, and the first of blessings secured, in obtaining her promises of faith and correspondence. If you need farther explanation, I have the honour, my dear madam, of being your husband's son, and the advantage of inheriting a disposition to hope for good, which no inheritance of houses or lands can ever equal the value of.-- See me, then, under these circumstances, arriving on my first visit to Randalls;-- and here I am conscious of wrong, for that visit might have been sooner paid. You will look back and see that I did not come till Miss Fairfax was in Highbury; and as _you_ were the person slighted, you will forgive me instantly; but I must work on my father's compassion, by reminding him, that so long as I absented myself from his house, so long I lost the blessing of knowing you. My behaviour, during the very happy fortnight which I spent with you, did not, I hope, lay me open to reprehension, excepting on one point. And now I come to the principal, the only important part of my conduct while belonging to you, which excites my own anxiety, or requires very solicitous explanation. With the greatest respect, and the warmest friendship, do I mention Miss Woodhouse; my father perhaps will think I ought to add, with the deepest humiliation.-- A few words which dropped from him yesterday spoke his opinion, and some censure I acknowledge myself liable to.-- My behaviour to Miss Woodhouse indicated, I believe, more than it ought.-- In order to assist a concealment so essential to me, I was led on to make more than an allowable use of the sort of intimacy into which we were immediately thrown.-- I cannot deny that Miss Woodhouse was my ostensible object -- but I am sure you will believe the declaration, that had I not been convinced of her indifference, I would not have been induced by any selfish views to go on.-- Amiable and delightful as Miss Woodhouse is, she never gave me the idea of a young woman likely to be attached; and that she was perfectly free from any tendency to being attached to me, was as much my conviction as my wish.-- She received my attentions with an easy, friendly, goodhumoured playfulness, which exactly suited me. We seemed to understand each other. From our relative situation, those attentions were her due, and were felt to be so.-- Whether Miss Woodhouse began really to understand me before the expiration of that fortnight, I cannot say;-- when I called to take leave of her, I remember that I was within a moment of confessing the truth, and I then fancied she was not without suspicion; but I have no doubt of her having since detected me, at least in some degree.-- She may not have surmised the whole, but her quickness must have penetrated a part. I cannot doubt it. You will find, whenever the subject becomes freed from its present restraints, that it did not take her wholly by surprize. She frequently gave me hints of it. I remember her telling me at the ball, that I owed Mrs. Elton gratitude for her attentions to Miss Fairfax.-- I hope this history of my conduct towards her will be admitted by you and my father as great extenuation of what you saw amiss. While you considered me as having sinned against Emma Woodhouse, I could deserve nothing from either. Acquit me here, and procure for me, when it is allowable, the acquittal and good wishes of that said Emma Woodhouse, whom I regard with so much brotherly affection, as to long to have her as deeply and as happily in love as myself.-- Whatever strange things I said or did during that fortnight, you have now a key to. My heart was in Highbury, and my business was to get my body thither as often as might be, and with the least suspicion. If you remember any queernesses, set them all to the right account.-- Of the pianoforte so much talked of, I feel it only necessary to say, that its being ordered was absolutely unknown to Miss F --, who would never have allowed me to send it, had any choice been given her.-- The delicacy of her mind throughout the whole engagement, my dear madam, is much beyond my power of doing justice to. You will soon, I earnestly hope, know her thoroughly yourself.-- No description can describe her. She must tell you herself what she is -- yet not by word, for never was there a human creature who would so designedly suppress her own merit.-- Since I began this letter, which will be longer than I foresaw, I have heard from her.-- She gives a good account of her own health; but as she never complains, I dare not depend. I want to have your opinion of her looks. I know you will soon call on her; she is living in dread of the visit. Perhaps it is paid already. Let me hear from you without delay; I am impatient for a thousand particulars. Remember how few minutes I was at Randalls, and in how bewildered, how mad a state: and I am not much better yet; still insane either from happiness or misery. When I think of the kindness and favour I have met with, of her excellence and patience, and my uncle's generosity, I am mad with joy: but when I recollect all the uneasiness I occasioned her, and how little I deserve to be forgiven, I am mad with anger. If I could but see her again!-- But I must not propose it yet. My uncle has been too good for me to encroach.-- I must still add to this long letter. You have not heard all that you ought to hear. I could not give any connected detail yesterday; but the suddenness, and, in one light, the unseasonableness with which the affair burst out, needs explanation; for though the event of the26 th ult., as you will conclude, immediately opened to me the happiest prospects, I should not have presumed on such early measures, but from the very particular circumstances, which left me not an hour to lose. I should myself have shrunk from any thing so hasty, and she would have felt every scruple of mine with multiplied strength and refinement.-- But I had no choice. The hasty engagement she had entered into with that woman -- Here, my dear madam, I was obliged to leave off abruptly, to recollect and compose myself.-- I have been walking over the country, and am now, I hope, rational enough to make the rest of my letter what it ought to be.-- It is, in fact, a most mortifying retrospect for me. I behaved shamefully. And here I can admit, that my manners to Miss W., in being unpleasant to Miss F., were highly blameable. _She_ disapproved them, which ought to have been enough.-- My plea of concealing the truth she did not think sufficient.-- She was displeased; I thought unreasonably so: I thought her, on a thousand occasions, unnecessarily scrupulous and cautious: I thought her even cold. But she was always right. If I had followed her judgment, and subdued my spirits to the level of what she deemed proper, I should have escaped the greatest unhappiness I have ever known.-- We quarrelled.-- Do you remember the morning spent at Donwell?-- _There_ every little dissatisfaction that had occurred before came to a crisis. I was late; I met her walking home by herself, and wanted to walk with her, but she would not suffer it. She absolutely refused to allow me, which I then thought most unreasonable. Now, however, I see nothing in it but a very natural and consistent degree of discretion. While I, to blind the world to our engagement, was behaving one hour with objectionable particularity to another woman, was she to be consenting the next to a proposal which might have made every previous caution useless?-- Had we been met walking together between Donwell and Highbury, the truth must have been suspected.-- I was mad enough, however, to resent.-- I doubted her affection. I doubted it more the next day on Box Hill; when, provoked by such conduct on my side, such shameful, insolent neglect of her, and such apparent devotion to Miss W., as it would have been impossible for any woman of sense to endure, she spoke her resentment in a form of words perfectly intelligible to me.-- In short, my dear madam, it was a quarrel blameless on her side, abominable on mine; and I returned the same evening to Richmond, though I might have staid with you till the next morning, merely because I would be as angry with her as possible. Even then, I was not such a fool as not to mean to be reconciled in time; but I was the injured person, injured by her coldness, and I went away determined that she should make the first advances.-- I shall always congratulate myself that you were not of the Box Hill party. Had you witnessed my behaviour there, I can hardly suppose you would ever have thought well of me again. Its effect upon her appears in the immediate resolution it produced: as soon as she found I was really gone from Randalls, she closed with the offer of that officious Mrs. Elton; the whole system of whose treatment of her, by the bye, has ever filled me with indignation and hatred. I must not quarrel with a spirit of forbearance which has been so richly extended towards myself; but, otherwise, I should loudly protest against the share of it which that woman has known.-- &bquo;Jane,' indeed!-- You will observe that I have not yet indulged myself in calling her by that name, even to you. Think, then, what I must have endured in hearing it bandied between the Eltons with all the vulgarity of needless repetition, and all the insolence of imaginary superiority. Have patience with me, I shall soon have done.-- She closed with this offer, resolving to break with me entirely, and wrote the next day to tell me that we never were to meet again.-- _She_ _felt_ _the_ _engagement_ _to_ _be_ _a_ _source_ _of_ _repentance_ _and_ _misery_ _to_ _each_: _she_ _dissolved_ _it_.-- This letter reached me on the very morning of my poor aunt's death. I answered it within an hour; but from the confusion of my mind, and the multiplicity of business falling on me at once, my answer, instead of being sent with all the many other letters of that day, was locked up in my writing-desk; and I, trusting that I had written enough, though but a few lines, to satisfy her, remained without any uneasiness.-- I was rather disappointed that I did not hear from her again speedily; but I made excuses for her, and was too busy, and -- may I add?-- too cheerful in my views to be captious.-- We removed to Windsor; and two days afterwards I received a parcel from her, my own letters all returned!-- and a few lines at the same time by the post, stating her extreme surprize at not having had the smallest reply to her last; and adding, that as silence on such a point could not be misconstrued, and as it must be equally desirable to both to have every subordinate arrangement concluded as soon as possible, she now sent me, by a safe conveyance, all my letters, and requested, that if I could not directly command hers, so as to send them to Highbury within a week, I would forward them after that period to her at --: in short, the full direction to Mr. Smallridge's, near Bristol, stared me in the face. I knew the name, the place, I knew all about it, and instantly saw what she had been doing. It was perfectly accordant with that resolution of character which I knew her to possess; and the secrecy she had maintained, as to any such design in her former letter, was equally descriptive of its anxious delicacy. For the world would not she have seemed to threaten me.-- Imagine the shock; imagine how, till I had actually detected my own blunder, I raved at the blunders of the post.-- What was to be done?-- One thing only.-- I must speak to my uncle. Without his sanction I could not hope to be listened to again.-- I spoke; circumstances were in my favour; the late event had softened away his pride, and he was, earlier than I could have anticipated, wholly reconciled and complying; and could say at last, poor man! with a deep sigh, that he wished I might find as much happiness in the marriage state as he had done.-- I felt that it would be of a different sort.-- Are you disposed to pity me for what I must have suffered in opening the cause to him, for my suspense while all was at stake?-- No; do not pity me till I reached Highbury, and saw how ill I had made her. Do not pity me till I saw her wan, sick looks.-- I reached Highbury at the time of day when, from my knowledge of their late breakfast hour, I was certain of a good chance of finding her alone.-- I was not disappointed; and at last I was not disappointed either in the object of my journey. A great deal of very reasonable, very just displeasure I had to persuade away. But it is done; we are reconciled, dearer, much dearer, than ever, and no moment's uneasiness can ever occur between us again. Now, my dear madam, I will release you; but I could not conclude before. A thousand and a thousand thanks for all the kindness you have ever shewn me, and ten thousand for the attentions your heart will dictate towards her.-- If you think me in a way to be happier than I deserve, I am quite of your opinion.-- Miss W. calls me the child of good fortune. I hope she is right.-- In one respect, my good fortune is undoubted, that of being able to subscribe myself, Your obliged and affectionate Son
I shall be very glad to look it over
but it seems long. I will take it home with me at night
I would rather be talking to you
but as it seems a matter of justice, it shall be done
Had I been offered the sight of one of this gentleman's letters to his mother-in-law a few months ago, Emma, it would not have been taken with such indifference
Humph! a fine complimentary opening: But it is his way. One man's style must not be the rule of another's. We will not be severe
It will be natural for me
to speak my opinion aloud as I read. By doing it, I shall feel that I am near you. It will not be so great a loss of time: but if you dislike it
Not at all. I should wish it
He trifles here
as to the temptation. He knows he is wrong, and has nothing rational to urge.-- Bad.-- He ought not to have formed the engagement.--&bquo;His father's disposition:'-- he is unjust, however, to his father. Mr. Weston's sanguine temper was a blessing on all his upright and honourable exertions; but Mr. Weston earned every present comfort before he endeavoured to gain it.-- Very true; he did not come till Miss Fairfax was here
And I have not forgotten
how sure you were that he might have come sooner if he would. You pass it over very handsomely -- but you were perfectly right
I was not quite impartial in my judgment, Emma:-- but yet, I think -- had _you_ not been in the case -- I should still have distrusted him
Very bad -- though it might have been worse.-- Playing a most dangerous game. Too much indebted to the event for his acquittal.-- No judge of his own manners by you.-- Always deceived in fact by his own wishes, and regardless of little besides his own convenience.-- Fancying you to have fathomed his secret. Natural enough!-- his own mind full of intrigue, that he should suspect it in others.-- Mystery; Finesse -- how they pervert the understanding! My Emma, does not every thing serve to prove more and more the beauty of truth and sincerity in all our dealings with each other
You had better go on
the pianoforte! Ah! That was the act of a very, very young man, one too young to consider whether the inconvenience of it might not very much exceed the pleasure. A boyish scheme, indeed!-- I cannot comprehend a man's wishing to give a woman any proof of affection which he knows she would rather dispense with; and he did know that she would have prevented the instrument's coming if she could
I perfectly agree with you, sir
You did behave very shamefully. You never wrote a truer line
This is very bad.-- He had induced her to place herself, for his sake, in a situation of extreme difficulty and uneasiness, and it should have been his first object to prevent her from suffering unnecessarily.-- She must have had much more to contend with, in carrying on the correspondence, than he could. He should have respected even unreasonable scruples, had there been such; but hers were all reasonable. We must look to her one fault, and remember that she had done a wrong thing in consenting to the engagement, to bear that she should have been in such a state of punishment
There is no saying much for the delicacy of our good friends, the Eltons
His feelings are natural.-- What! actually resolve to break with him entirely!-- She felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to each -- she dissolved it.-- What a view this gives of her sense of his behaviour!-- Well, he must be a most extraordinary
Nay, nay, read on.-- You will find how very much he suffers
I hope he does
Smallridge!'-- What does this mean? What is all this
She had engaged to go as governess to Mrs. Smallridge's children -- a dear friend of Mrs. Elton's -- a neighbour of Maple Grove; and, by the bye, I wonder how Mrs. Elton bears the disappointment
Say nothing, my dear Emma, while you oblige me to read -- not even of Mrs. Elton. Only one page more. I shall soon have done. What a letter the man writes
I wish you would read it with a kinder spirit towards him
Well, there _is_ feeling here.-- He does seem to have suffered in finding her ill.-- Certainly, I can have no doubt of his being fond of her. &bquo;Dearer, much dearer than ever.' I hope he may long continue to feel all the value of such a reconciliation.-- He is a very liberal thanker, with his thousands and tens of thousands.--&bquo;Happier than I deserve.' Come, he knows himself there. &bquo;Miss Woodhouse calls me the child of good fortune.'-- Those were Miss Woodhouse's words, were they?-- And a fine ending -- and there is the letter. The child of good fortune! That was your name for him, was it
You do not appear so well satisfied with his letter as I am; but still you must, at least I hope you must, think the better of him for it. I hope it does him some service with you
Yes, certainly it does. He has had great faults, faults of inconsideration and thoughtlessness; and I am very much of his opinion in thinking him likely to be happier than he deserves: but still as he is, beyond a doubt, really attached to Miss Fairfax, and will soon, it may be hoped, have the advantage of being constantly with her, I am very ready to believe his character will improve, and acquire from hers the steadiness and delicacy of principle that it wants. And now, let me talk to you of something else. I have another person's interest at present so much at heart, that I cannot think any longer about Frank Churchill. Ever since I left you this morning, Emma, my mind has been hard at work on one subject
While her dear father lived, any change of condition must be impossible for her. She could never quit him
Ah! there is one difficulty unprovided for
I am sure William Larkins will not like it. You must get his consent before you ask mine
Beg her to walk up
This is most kind, indeed!-- Miss Woodhouse, it is impossible for me to express -- I hope you will believe -- Excuse me for being so entirely without words
You know all other things give place
I mentioned no _names_, you will observe.-- Oh! no; cautious as a minister of state. I managed it extremely well
Do not you think, Miss Woodhouse, our saucy little friend here is charmingly recovered?-- Do not you think her cure does Perry the highest credit?--(here was a side-glance of great meaning at Jane.) Upon my word, Perry has restored her in a wonderful short time!-- Oh! if you had seen her, as I did, when she was at the worst
We do not say a word of any _assistance_ that Perry might have; not a word of a certain young physician from Windsor.-- Oh! no; Perry shall have all the credit
I have scarce had the pleasure of seeing you, Miss Woodhouse
since the party to Box Hill. Very pleasant party. But yet I think there was something wanting. Things did not seem -- that is, there seemed a little cloud upon the spirits of some.-- So it appeared to me at least, but I might be mistaken. However, I think it answered so far as to tempt one to go again. What say you both to our collecting the same party, and exploring to Box Hill again, while the fine weather lasts?-- It must be the same party, you know, quite the same party, not _one_ exception
Thank you, dear Miss Woodhouse, you are all kindness.-- It is impossible to say -- Yes, indeed, I quite understand -- dearest Jane's prospects -- that is, I do not mean.-- But she is charmingly recovered.-- How is Mr. Woodhouse?-- I am so glad.-- Quite out of my power.-- Such a happy little circle as you find us here.-- Yes, indeed.-- Charming young man!-- that is -- so very friendly; I mean good Mr. Perry!-- such attention to Jane
Yes, here I am, my good friend; and here I have been so long, that anywhere else I should think it necessary to apologise; but, the truth is, that I am waiting for my lord and master. He promised to join me here, and pay his respects to you
What! are we to have the pleasure of a call from Mr. Elton?-- That will be a favour indeed! for I know gentlemen do not like morning visits, and Mr. Elton's time is so engaged
Upon my word it is, Miss Bates.-- He really is engaged from morning to night.-- There is no end of people's coming to him, on some pretence or other.-- The magistrates, and overseers, and churchwardens, are always wanting his opinion. They seem not able to do any thing without him.--&bquo;Upon my word, Mr. E., ' I often say, &bquo;rather you than I.-- I do not know what would become of my crayons and my instrument, if I had half so many applicants.'-- Bad enough as it is, for I absolutely neglect them both to an unpardonable degree.-- I believe I have not played a bar this fortnight.-- However, he is coming, I assure you: yes, indeed, on purpose to wait on you all
A congratulatory visit, you know.-- Oh! yes, quite indispensable
He promised to come to me as soon as he could disengage himself from Knightley; but he and Knightley are shut up together in deep consultation.-- Mr. E. is Knightley's right hand
Is Mr. Elton gone on foot to Donwell?-- He will have a hot walk
Oh! no, it is a meeting at the Crown, a regular meeting. Weston and Cole will be there too; but one is apt to speak only of those who lead.-- I fancy Mr. E. and Knightley have every thing their own way
Have not you mistaken the day
I am almost certain that the meeting at the Crown is not till to-morrow.-- Mr. Knightley was at Hartfield yesterday, and spoke of it as for Saturday
Oh! no, the meeting is certainly to-day
I do believe
this is the most troublesome parish that ever was. We never heard of such things at Maple Grove
Your parish there was small
Upon my word, my dear, I do not know, for I never heard the subject talked of
But it is proved by the smallness of the school, which I have heard you speak of, as under the patronage of your sister and Mrs. Bragge; the only school, and not more than five-and-twenty children
Ah! you clever creature, that's very true. What a thinking brain you have! I say, Jane, what a perfect character you and I should make, if we could be shaken together. My liveliness and your solidity would produce perfection.-- Not that I presume to insinuate, however, that _some_ people may not think _you_ perfection already.-- But hush!-- not a word, if you please
Very pretty, sir, upon my word; to send me on here, to be an encumbrance to my friends, so long before you vouchsafe to come!-- But you knew what a dutiful creature you had to deal with. You knew I should not stir till my lord and master appeared.-- Here have I been sitting this hour, giving these young ladies a sample of true conjugal obedience -- for who can say, you know, how soon it may be wanted
When I got to Donwell
Knightley could not be found. Very odd! very unaccountable! after the note I sent him this morning, and the message he returned, that he should certainly be at home till one
Donwell
My dear Mr. E., you have not been to Donwell!-- You mean the Crown; you come from the meeting at the Crown
No, no, that's to-morrow; and I particularly wanted to see Knightley to-day on that very account.-- Such a dreadful broiling morning!-- I went over the fields too --(speaking in a tone of great ill-usage,) which made it so much the worse. And then not to find him at home! I assure you I am not at all pleased. And no apology left, no message for me. The housekeeper declared she knew nothing of my being expected.-- Very extraordinary!-- And nobody knew at all which way he was gone. Perhaps to Hartfield, perhaps to the Abbey Mill, perhaps into his woods.-- Miss Woodhouse, this is not like our friend Knightley!-- Can you explain it
I cannot imagine
I cannot imagine how he could do such a thing by you, of all people in the world! The very last person whom one should expect to be forgotten!-- My dear Mr. E., he must have left a message for you, I am sure he must.-- Not even Knightley could be so very eccentric;-- and his servants forgot it. Depend upon it, that was the case: and very likely to happen with the Donwell servants, who are all, I have often observed, extremely awkward and remiss.-- I am sure I would not have such a creature as his Harry stand at our sideboard for any consideration. And as for Mrs. Hodges, Wright holds her very cheap indeed.-- She promised Wright a receipt, and never sent it
I met William Larkins
as I got near the house, and he told me I should not find his master at home, but I did not believe him.-- William seemed rather out of humour. He did not know what was come to his master lately, he said, but he could hardly ever get the speech of him. I have nothing to do with William's wants, but it really is of very great importance that _I_ should see Knightley to-day; and it becomes a matter, therefore, of very serious inconvenience that I should have had this hot walk to no purpose
It is as well, perhaps, that I have not had the possibility. Had you not been surrounded by other friends, I might have been tempted to introduce a subject, to ask questions, to speak more openly than might have been strictly correct.-- I feel that I should certainly have been impertinent
Oh
there would have been no danger. The danger would have been of my wearying you. You could not have gratified me more than by expressing an interest --. Indeed, Miss Woodhouse, (speaking more collectedly,) with the consciousness which I have of misconduct, very great misconduct, it is particularly consoling to me to know that those of my friends, whose good opinion is most worth preserving, are not disgusted to such a degree as to -- I have not time for half that I could wish to say. I long to make apologies, excuses, to urge something for myself. I feel it so very due. But, unfortunately -- in short, if your compassion does not stand my friend
Oh! you are too scrupulous, indeed you are
You owe me no apologies; and every body to whom you might be supposed to owe them, is so perfectly satisfied, so delighted even
You are very kind, but I know what my manners were to you.-- So cold and artificial!-- I had always a part to act.-- It was a life of deceit!-- I know that I must have disgusted you
Pray say no more. I feel that all the apologies should be on my side. Let us forgive each other at once. We must do whatever is to be done quickest, and I think our feelings will lose no time there. I hope you have pleasant accounts from Windsor
Very
And the next news, I suppose, will be, that we are to lose you -- just as I begin to know you
Oh! as to all that, of course nothing can be thought of yet. I am here till claimed by Colonel and Mrs. Campbell
Nothing can be actually settled yet, perhaps
but, excuse me, it must be thought of
You are very right; it has been thought of. And I will own to you, (I am sure it will be safe), that so far as our living with Mr. Churchill at Enscombe, it is settled. There must be three months, at least, of deep mourning; but when they are over, I imagine there will be nothing more to wait for
Thank you, thank you.-- This is just what I wanted to be assured of.-- Oh! if you knew how much I love every thing that is decided and open!-- Good-bye, good-bye
She has had the advantage, you know, of practising on me
like La Baronne d'Almane on La Comtesse d'Ostalis, in Madame de Genlis' Adelaide and Theodore, and we shall now see her own little Adelaide educated on a more perfect plan
That is
she will indulge her even more than she did you, and believe that she does not indulge her at all. It will be the only difference
Poor child
at that rate, what will become of her
Nothing very bad.-- The fate of thousands. She will be disagreeable in infancy, and correct herself as she grows older. I am losing all my bitterness against spoilt children, my dearest Emma. I, who am owing all my happiness to _you_, would not it be horrible ingratitude in me to be severe on them
But I had the assistance of all your endeavours to counteract the indulgence of other people. I doubt whether my own sense would have corrected me without it
Do you?-- I have no doubt. Nature gave you understanding:-- Miss Taylor gave you principles. You must have done well. My interference was quite as likely to do harm as good. It was very natural for you to say, what right has he to lecture me?-- and I am afraid very natural for you to feel that it was done in a disagreeable manner. I do not believe I did you any good. The good was all to myself, by making you an object of the tenderest affection to me. I could not think about you so much without doating on you, faults and all; and by dint of fancying so many errors, have been in love with you ever since you were thirteen at least
I am sure you were of use to me
I was very often influenced rightly by you -- oftener than I would own at the time. I am very sure you did me good. And if poor little Anna Weston is to be spoiled, it will be the greatest humanity in you to do as much for her as you have done for me, except falling in love with her when she is thirteen
How often, when you were a girl, have you said to me, with one of your saucy looks --&bquo;Mr. Knightley, I am going to do so-and-so; papa says I may, or I have Miss Taylor's leave'-- something which, you knew, I did not approve. In such cases my interference was giving you two bad feelings instead of one
What an amiable creature I was!-- No wonder you should hold my speeches in such affectionate remembrance
Mr. Knightley.'-- You always called me, &bquo;Mr. Knightley;' and, from habit, it has not so very formal a sound.-- And yet it is formal. I want you to call me something else, but I do not know what
I remember once calling you &bquo;George,' in one of my amiable fits, about ten years ago. I did it because I thought it would offend you; but, as you made no objection, I never did it again
And cannot you call me &bquo;George' now
Impossible!-- I never can call you any thing but &bquo;Mr. Knightley.' I will not promise even to equal the elegant terseness of Mrs. Elton, by calling you Mr. K.-- But I will promise
I will promise to call you once by your Christian name. I do not say when, but perhaps you may guess where;-- in the building in which N. takes M. for better, for worse
John does not even mention your friend
Here is his answer, if you like to see it
John enters like a brother into my happiness
but he is no complimenter; and though I well know him to have, likewise, a most brotherly affection for you, he is so far from making flourishes, that any other young woman might think him rather cool in her praise. But I am not afraid of your seeing what he writes
He writes like a sensible man
I honour his sincerity. It is very plain that he considers the good fortune of the engagement as all on my side, but that he is not without hope of my growing, in time, as worthy of your affection, as you think me already. Had he said any thing to bear a different construction, I should not have believed him
My Emma, he means no such thing. He only means
He and I should differ very little in our estimation of the two
much less, perhaps, than he is aware of, if we could enter without ceremony or reserve on the subject
Emma, my dear Emma
Oh
if you fancy your brother does not do me justice, only wait till my dear father is in the secret, and hear his opinion. Depend upon it, he will be much farther from doing _you_ justice. He will think all the happiness, all the advantage, on your side of the question; all the merit on mine. I wish I may not sink into &bquo;poor Emma' with him at once.-- His tender compassion towards oppressed worth can go no farther
Ah
I wish your father might be half as easily convinced as John will be, of our having every right that equal worth can give, to be happy together. I am amused by one part of John's letter -- did you notice it?-- where he says, that my information did not take him wholly by surprize, that he was rather in expectation of hearing something of the kind
If I understand your brother, he only means so far as your having some thoughts of marrying. He had no idea of me. He seems perfectly unprepared for that
Yes, yes -- but I am amused that he should have seen so far into my feelings. What has he been judging by?-- I am not conscious of any difference in my spirits or conversation that could prepare him at this time for my marrying any more than at another.-- But it was so, I suppose. I dare say there was a difference when I was staying with them the other day. I believe I did not play with the children quite so much as usual. I remember one evening the poor boys saying, &bquo;Uncle seems always tired now
Those matters will take care of themselves; the young people will find a way
It is to be a secret, I conclude
These matters are always a secret, till it is found out that every body knows them. Only let me be told when I may speak out.-- I wonder whether Jane has any suspicion
the young lady's pride would now be contented
she had always meant to catch Knightley if she could
Rather he than I
I have something to tell you, Emma; some news
Good or bad
I do not know which it ought to be called
Oh! good I am sure.-- I see it in your countenance. You are trying not to smile
I am afraid
I am very much afraid, my dear Emma, that you will not smile when you hear it
Indeed! but why so?-- I can hardly imagine that any thing which pleases or amuses you, should not please and amuse me too
There is one subject
I hope but one, on which we do not think alike
Does nothing occur to you?-- Do not you recollect?-- Harriet Smith
Have you heard from her yourself this morning
You have, I believe, and know the whole
No, I have not; I know nothing; pray tell me
You are prepared for the worst, I see -- and very bad it is. Harriet Smith marries Robert Martin
No, this is impossible
It is so, indeed
I have it from Robert Martin himself. He left me not half an hour ago
You like it, my Emma, as little as I feared.-- I wish our opinions were the same. But in time they will. Time, you may be sure, will make one or the other of us think differently; and, in the meanwhile, we need not talk much on the subject
You mistake me, you quite mistake me
It is not that such a circumstance would now make me unhappy, but I cannot believe it. It seems an impossibility!-- You cannot mean to say, that Harriet Smith has accepted Robert Martin. You cannot mean that he has even proposed to her again -- yet. You only mean, that he intends it
I mean that he has done it
and been accepted
Good God
Well
Well, now tell me every thing; make this intelligible to me. How, where, when?-- Let me know it all. I never was more surprized -- but it does not make me unhappy, I assure you.-- How -- how has it been possible
It is a very simple story. He went to town on business three days ago, and I got him to take charge of some papers which I was wanting to send to John.-- He delivered these papers to John, at his chambers, and was asked by him to join their party the same evening to Astley's. They were going to take the two eldest boys to Astley's. The party was to be our brother and sister, Henry, John -- and Miss Smith. My friend Robert could not resist. They called for him in their way; were all extremely amused; and my brother asked him to dine with them the next day -- which he did -- and in the course of that visit (as I understand) he found an opportunity of speaking to Harriet; and certainly did not speak in vain.-- She made him, by her acceptance, as happy even as he is deserving. He came down by yesterday's coach, and was with me this morning immediately after breakfast, to report his proceedings, first on my affairs, and then on his own. This is all that I can relate of the how, where, and when. Your friend Harriet will make a much longer history when you see her.-- She will give you all the minute particulars, which only woman's language can make interesting.-- In our communications we deal only in the great.-- However, I must say, that Robert Martin's heart seemed for _him_, and to _me_, very overflowing; and that he did mention, without its being much to the purpose, that on quitting their box at Astley's, my brother took charge of Mrs. John Knightley and little John, and he followed with Miss Smith and Henry; and that at one time they were in such a crowd, as to make Miss Smith rather uneasy
Emma, my love, you said that this circumstance would not now make you unhappy; but I am afraid it gives you more pain than you expected. His situation is an evil -- but you must consider it as what satisfies your friend; and I will answer for your thinking better and better of him as you know him more. His good sense and good principles would delight you.-- As far as the man is concerned, you could not wish your friend in better hands. His rank in society I would alter if I could, which is saying a great deal I assure you, Emma.-- You laugh at me about William Larkins; but I could quite as ill spare Robert Martin
You need not be at any pains to reconcile me to the match. I think Harriet is doing extremely well. _Her_ connexions may be worse than _his_. In respectability of character, there can be no doubt that they are. I have been silent from surprize merely, excessive surprize. You cannot imagine how suddenly it has come on me! how peculiarly unprepared I was!-- for I had reason to believe her very lately more determined against him, much more, than she was before
You ought to know your friend best
but I should say she was a good-tempered, soft-hearted girl, not likely to be very, very determined against any young man who told her he loved her
Upon my word, I believe you know her quite as well as I do.-- But, Mr. Knightley, are you perfectly sure that she has absolutely and downright _accepted_ him. I could suppose she might in time -- but can she already?-- Did not you misunderstand him?-- You were both talking of other things; of business, shows of cattle, or new drills -- and might not you, in the confusion of so many subjects, mistake him?-- It was not Harriet's hand that he was certain of -- it was the dimensions of some famous ox
No, I hope I know better than to think of Robert Martin
Do you dare say this
Do you dare to suppose me so great a blockhead, as not to know what a man is talking of?-- What do you deserve
Oh! I always deserve the best treatment, because I never put up with any other; and, therefore, you must give me a plain, direct answer. Are you quite sure that you understand the terms on which Mr. Martin and Harriet now are
I am quite sure
that he told me she had accepted him; and that there was no obscurity, nothing doubtful, in the words he used; and I think I can give you a proof that it must be so. He asked my opinion as to what he was now to do. He knew of no one but Mrs. Goddard to whom he could apply for information of her relations or friends. Could I mention any thing more fit to be done, than to go to Mrs. Goddard? I assured him that I could not. Then, he said, he would endeavour to see her in the course of this day
I am perfectly satisfied
and most sincerely wish them happy
You are materially changed since we talked on this subject before
I hope so -- for at that time I was a fool
And I am changed also; for I am now very willing to grant you all Harriet's good qualities. I have taken some pains for your sake, and for Robert Martin's sake, (whom I have always had reason to believe as much in love with her as ever,) to get acquainted with her. I have often talked to her a good deal. You must have seen that I did. Sometimes, indeed, I have thought you were half suspecting me of pleading poor Martin's cause, which was never the case; but, from all my observations, I am convinced of her being an artless, amiable girl, with very good notions, very seriously good principles, and placing her happiness in the affections and utility of domestic life.-- Much of this, I have no doubt, she may thank you for
Me
Ah! poor Harriet
It is Frank and Miss Fairfax
I was just going to tell you of our agreeable surprize in seeing him arrive this morning. He stays till to-morrow, and Miss Fairfax has been persuaded to spend the day with us.-- They are coming in, I hope
I have to thank you, Miss Woodhouse, for a very kind forgiving message in one of Mrs. Weston's letters. I hope time has not made you less willing to pardon. I hope you do not retract what you then said
No, indeed
not in the least. I am particularly glad to see and shake hands with you -- and to give you joy in person
Is not she looking well
Better than she ever used to do?-- You see how my father and Mrs. Weston doat upon her
I can never think of it
without extreme shame
The shame
is all mine, or ought to be. But is it possible that you had no suspicion?-- I mean of late. Early, I know, you had none
I never had the smallest, I assure you
That appears quite wonderful. I was once very near -- and I wish I had -- it would have been better. But though I was always doing wrong things, they were very bad wrong things, and such as did me no service.-- It would have been a much better transgression had I broken the bond of secrecy and told you every thing
It is not now worth a regret
I have some hope
of my uncle's being persuaded to pay a visit at Randalls; he wants to be introduced to her. When the Campbells are returned, we shall meet them in London, and continue there, I trust, till we may carry her northward.-- But now, I am at such a distance from her -- is not it hard, Miss Woodhouse?-- Till this morning, we have not once met since the day of reconciliation. Do not you pity me
Ah! by the bye
I hope Mr. Knightley is well
I know you saw my letter, and think you may remember my wish in your favour. Let me return your congratulations.-- I assure you that I have heard the news with the warmest interest and satisfaction.-- He is a man whom I cannot presume to praise
Did you ever see such a skin?-- such smoothness! such delicacy!-- and yet without being actually fair.-- One cannot call her fair. It is a most uncommon complexion, with her dark eye-lashes and hair -- a most distinguishing complexion! So peculiarly the lady in it.-- Just colour enough for beauty
I have always admired her complexion
but do not I remember the time when you found fault with her for being so pale?-- When we first began to talk of her.-- Have you quite forgotten
Oh! no -- what an impudent dog I was!-- How could I dare
I do suspect that in the midst of your perplexities at that time, you had very great amusement in tricking us all.-- I am sure you had.-- I am sure it was a consolation to you
Oh! no, no, no -- how can you suspect me of such a thing? I was the most miserable wretch
Not quite so miserable as to be insensible to mirth. I am sure it was a source of high entertainment to you, to feel that you were taking us all in.-- Perhaps I am the readier to suspect, because, to tell you the truth, I think it might have been some amusement to myself in the same situation. I think there is a little likeness between us
If not in our dispositions
there is a likeness in our destiny; the destiny which bids fair to connect us with two characters so much superior to our own
True, true
No, not true on your side. You can have no superior, but most true on mine.-- She is a complete angel. Look at her. Is not she an angel in every gesture? Observe the turn of her throat. Observe her eyes, as she is looking up at my father.-- You will be glad to hear (inclining his head, and whispering seriously) that my uncle means to give her all my aunt's jewels. They are to be new set. I am resolved to have some in an ornament for the head. Will not it be beautiful in her dark hair
Very beautiful, indeed
How delighted I am to see you again! and to see you in such excellent looks!-- I would not have missed this meeting for the world. I should certainly have called at Hartfield, had you failed to come
She should always send for Perry, if the child appeared in the slightest degree disordered, were it only for a moment. She could not be too soon alarmed, nor send for Perry too often. It was a pity, perhaps, that he had not come last night; for, though the child seemed well now, very well considering, it would probably have been better if Perry had seen it
Perry
My friend Mr. Perry! What are they saying about Mr. Perry?-- Has he been here this morning?-- And how does he travel now?-- Has he set up his carriage
Such an extraordinary dream of mine
I can never think of it without laughing.-- She hears us, she hears us, Miss Woodhouse. I see it in her cheek, her smile, her vain attempt to frown. Look at her. Do not you see that, at this instant, the very passage of her own letter, which sent me the report, is passing under her eye -- that the whole blunder is spread before her -- that she can attend to nothing else, though pretending to listen to the others
How you can bear such recollections, is astonishing to me!-- They _will_ sometimes obtrude -- but how you can court them
Very little white satin, very few lace veils; a most pitiful business!-- Selina would stare when she heard of it
</text>
