<text>
She regretted to be under the necessity of keeping me at a distance; but that until she heard from Bessie, and could discover by her own observation, that I was endeavouring in good earnest to acquire a more sociable and childlike disposition, a more attractive and sprightly manner -- something lighter, franker, more natural, as it were -- she really must exclude me from privileges intended only for contented, happy, little children
What does Bessie say I have done
Jane, I don't like cavillers or questioners; besides, there is something truly forbidding in a child taking up her elders in that manner. Be seated somewhere; and until you can speak pleasantly, remain silent
Where the Northern Ocean, in vast whirls, Boils round the naked, melancholy isles Of farthest Thule; and the Atlantic surge Pours in among the stormy Hebrides
the vast sweep of the Arctic Zone, and those forlorn regions of dreary space, -- that reservoir of frost and snow, where firm fields of ice, the accumulation of centuries of winters, glazed in Alpine heights above heights, surround the pole, and concentre the multiplied rigours of extreme cold
Boh! Madam Mope
Where the dickens is she
Lizzy! Georgy! (calling to his sisters) Joan is not here: tell mama she is run out into the rain -- bad animal
It is well I drew the curtain
She is in the window-seat, to be sure, Jack
What do you want
Say, 'What do you want, Master Reed
I want you to come here
on account of his delicate health
That is for your impudence in answering mama awhile since
and for your sneaking way of getting behind curtains, and for the look you had in your eyes two minutes since, you rat
What were you doing behind the curtain
I was reading
Show the book
You have no business to take our books; you are a dependent, mama says; you have no money; your father left you none; you ought to beg, and not to live here with gentlemen's children like us, and eat the same meals we do, and wear clothes at our mama's expense. Now, I'll teach you to rummage my bookshelves: for they ARE mine; all the house belongs to me, or will do in a few years. Go and stand by the door, out of the way of the mirror and the windows
Wicked and cruel boy
You are like a murderer -- you are like a slave-driver -- you are like the Roman emperors
What! what
Rat! Rat
Dear! dear! What a fury to fly at Master John
Did ever anybody see such a picture of passion
Take her away to the red-room, and lock her in there
Hold her arms, Miss Abbot: she's like a mad cat
For shame! for shame
What shocking conduct, Miss Eyre, to strike a young gentleman, your benefactress's son! Your young master
Master! How is he my master? Am I a servant
No; you are less than a servant, for you do nothing for your keep. There, sit down, and think over your wickedness
If you don't sit still, you must be tied down
Miss Abbot, lend me your garters; she would break mine directly
Don't take them off
I will not stir
Mind you don't
She never did so before
But it was always in her
I've told Missis often my opinion about the child, and Missis agreed with me. She's an underhand little thing: I never saw a girl of her age with so much cover
You ought to be aware, Miss, that you are under obligations to Mrs. Reed: she keeps you: if she were to turn you off, you would have to go to the poorhouse
And you ought not to think yourself on an equality with the Misses Reed and Master Reed, because Missis kindly allows you to be brought up with them. They will have a great deal of money, and you will have none: it is your place to be humble, and to try to make yourself agreeable to them
What we tell you is for your good
you should try to be useful and pleasant, then, perhaps, you would have a home here; but if you become passionate and rude, Missis will send you away, I am sure
Besides
God will punish her: He might strike her dead in the midst of her tantrums, and then where would she go? Come, Bessie, we will leave her: I wouldn't have her heart for anything. Say your prayers, Miss Eyre, when you are by yourself; for if you don't repent, something bad might be permitted to come down the chimney and fetch you away
old girl
her own darling
Unjust! -- unjust
Miss Eyre, are you ill
What a dreadful noise! it went quite through me
Take me out! Let me go into the nursery
What for? Are you hurt? Have you seen something
Oh! I saw a light, and I thought a ghost would come
She has screamed out on purpose
And what a scream! If she had been in great pain one would have excused it, but she only wanted to bring us all here: I know her naughty tricks
What is all this
Abbot and Bessie, I believe I gave orders that Jane Eyre should be left in the red-room till I came to her myself
Miss Jane screamed so loud, ma'am
Let her go
Loose Bessie's hand, child: you cannot succeed in getting out by these means, be assured. I abhor artifice, particularly in children; it is my duty to show you that tricks will not answer: you will now stay here an hour longer, and it is only on condition of perfect submission and stillness that I shall liberate you then
Silence! This violence is all most repulsive
Well, who am I
We shall do very well by-and-by
Do you feel as if you should sleep, Miss
I will try
Would you like to drink, or could you eat anything
No, thank you, Bessie
Then I think I shall go to bed, for it is past twelve o'clock; but you may call me if you want anything in the night
Bessie, what is the matter with me? Am I ill
You fell sick, I suppose, in the red-room with crying; you'll be better soon, no doubt
Sarah, come and sleep with me in the nursery; I daren't for my life be alone with that poor child to-night: she might die; it's such a strange thing she should have that fit: I wonder if she saw anything. Missis was rather too hard
Something passed her, all dressed in white, and vanished
A great black dog behind him
Three loud raps on the chamber door
A light in the churchyard just over his grave
In the days when we went gipsying, A long time ago
My feet they are sore, and my limbs they are weary; Long is the way, and the mountains are wild; Soon will the twilight close moonless and dreary Over the path of the poor orphan child. "Why did they send me so far and so lonely, Up where the moors spread and grey rocks are piled? Men are hard-hearted, and kind angels only Watch o'er the steps of a poor orphan child. 

"Yet distant and soft the night breeze is blowing, Clouds there are none, and clear stars beam mild, God, in His mercy, protection is showing, Comfort and hope to the poor orphan child. 

"Ev'n should I fall o'er the broken bridge passing, Or stray in the marshes, by false lights beguiled, Still will my Father, with promise and blessing, Take to His bosom the poor orphan child. 

"There is a thought that for strength should avail me, Though both of shelter and kindred despoiled; Heaven is a home, and a rest will not fail me; God is a friend to the poor orphan child
Come, Miss Jane, don't cry
don't burn
What, already up
Well, nurse, how is she
Then she ought to look more cheerful. Come here, Miss Jane: your name is Jane, is it not
Yes, sir, Jane Eyre
Well, you have been crying, Miss Jane Eyre; can you tell me what about? Have you any pain
No, sir
Oh! I daresay she is crying because she could not go out with Missis in the carriage
Surely not! why, she is too old for such pettishness
I never cried for such a thing in my life: I hate going out in the carriage. I cry because I am miserable
Oh fie, Miss
What made you ill yesterday
She had a fall
Fall! why, that is like a baby again! Can't she manage to walk at her age? She must be eight or nine years old
I was knocked down
but that did not make me ill
That's for you, nurse
you can go down; I'll give Miss Jane a lecture till you come back
The fall did not make you ill; what did, then
I was shut up in a room where there is a ghost till after dark
Ghost! What, you are a baby after all! You are afraid of ghosts
Of Mr. Reed's ghost I am: he died in that room, and was laid out there. Neither Bessie nor any one else will go into it at night, if they can help it; and it was cruel to shut me up alone without a candle, -- so cruel that I think I shall never forget it
Nonsense! And is it that makes you so miserable? Are you afraid now in daylight
No: but night will come again before long: and besides, -- I am unhappy, -- very unhappy, for other things
What other things? Can you tell me some of them
For one thing, I have no father or mother, brothers or sisters
You have a kind aunt and cousins
But John Reed knocked me down, and my aunt shut me up in the red- room
Don't you think Gateshead Hall a very beautiful house
Are you not very thankful to have such a fine place to live at
It is not my house, sir; and Abbot says I have less right to be here than a servant
Pooh! you can't be silly enough to wish to leave such a splendid place
If I had anywhere else to go, I should be glad to leave it; but I can never get away from Gateshead till I am a woman
Perhaps you may -- who knows? Have you any relations besides Mrs. Reed
I think not, sir
None belonging to your father
I don't know. I asked Aunt Reed once, and she said possibly I might have some poor, low relations called Eyre, but she knew nothing about them
If you had such, would you like to go to them
No; I should not like to belong to poor people
Not even if they were kind to you
But are your relatives so very poor? Are they working people
I cannot tell; Aunt. Reed says if I have any, they must be a beggarly set: I should not like to go a begging
Would you like to go to school
I should indeed like to go to school
Well, well! who knows what may happen
The child ought to have change of air and scene
nerves not in a good state
Is that your mistress, nurse
I should like to speak to her before I go
Missis was, she dared say, glad enough to get rid of such a tiresome, ill- conditioned child, who always looked as if she were watching everybody, and scheming plots underhand
Poor Miss Jane is to be pitied, too, Abbot
Yes
if she were a nice, pretty child, one might compassionate her forlornness; but one really cannot care for such a little toad as that
Not a great deal, to be sure
at any rate, a beauty like Miss Georgiana would be more moving in the same condition
Yes, I doat on Miss Georgiana
Little darling! -- with her long curls and her blue eyes, and such a sweet colour as she has; just as if she were painted! -- Bessie, I could fancy a Welsh rabbit for supper
So could I -- with a roast onion. Come, we'll go down
Don't talk to me about her, John: I told you not to go near her; she is not worthy of notice; I do not choose that either you or your sisters should associate with her
They are not fit to associate with me
What would Uncle Reed say to you, if he were alive
What
My Uncle Reed is in heaven, and can see all you do and think; and so can papa and mama: they know how you shut me up all day long, and how you wish me dead
Good night, Miss Jane
Miss Jane, take off your pinafore; what are you doing there? Have you washed your hands and face this morning
No, Bessie; I have only just finished dusting
Troublesome, careless child! and what are you doing now? You look quite red, as if you had been about some mischief: what were you opening the window for
Who could want me
What should I see besides Aunt Reed in the apartment? -- a man or a woman
This is the little girl respecting whom I applied to you
Her size is small: what is her age
Ten years
So much
Your name, little girl
Jane Eyre, sir
Well, Jane Eyre, and are you a good child
Perhaps the less said on that subject the better, Mr. Brocklehurst
Sorry indeed to hear it! she and I must have some talk
Come here
No sight so sad as that of a naughty child
especially a naughty little girl. Do you know where the wicked go after death
They go to hell
And what is hell? Can you tell me that
A pit full of fire
And should you like to fall into that pit, and to be burning there for ever
No, sir
What must you do to avoid it
I must keep in good health, and not die
How can you keep in good health? Children younger than you die daily. I buried a little child of five years old only a day or two since, -- a good little child, whose soul is now in heaven. It is to be feared the same could not be said of you were you to be called hence
I hope that sigh is from the heart, and that you repent of ever having been the occasion of discomfort to your excellent benefactress
Benefactress! benefactress
they all call Mrs. Reed my benefactress; if so, a benefactress is a disagreeable thing
Do you say your prayers night and morning
Yes, sir
Do you read your Bible
Sometimes
With pleasure? Are you fond of it
I like Revelations, and the book of Daniel, and Genesis and Samuel, and a little bit of Exodus, and some parts of Kings and Chronicles, and Job and Jonah
And the Psalms? I hope you like them
No, sir
No? oh, shocking! I have a little boy, younger than you, who knows six Psalms by heart: and when you ask him which he would rather have, a gingerbread-nut to eat or a verse of a Psalm to learn, he says: 'Oh! the verse of a Psalm! angels sing Psalms;' says he, 'I wish to be a little angel here below;' he then gets two nuts in recompense for his infant piety
Psalms are not interesting
That proves you have a wicked heart; and you must pray to God to change it: to give you a new and clean one: to take away your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh
Mr. Brocklehurst, I believe I intimated in the letter which I wrote to you three weeks ago, that this little girl has not quite the character and disposition I could wish: should you admit her into Lowood school, I should be glad if the superintendent and teachers were requested to keep a strict eye on her, and, above all, to guard against her worst fault, a tendency to deceit. I mention this in your hearing, Jane, that you may not attempt to impose on Mr. Brocklehurst
Nothing, indeed
Deceit is, indeed, a sad fault in a child
it is akin to falsehood, and all liars will have their portion in the lake burning with fire and brimstone; she shall, however, be watched, Mrs. Reed. I will speak to Miss Temple and the teachers
I should wish her to be brought up in a manner suiting her prospects
to be made useful, to be kept humble: as for the vacations, she will, with your permission, spend them always at Lowood
Your decisions are perfectly judicious, madam
Humility is a Christian grace, and one peculiarly appropriate to the pupils of Lowood; I, therefore, direct that especial care shall be bestowed on its cultivation amongst them. I have studied how best to mortify in them the worldly sentiment of pride; and, only the other day, I had a pleasing proof of my success. My second daughter, Augusta, went with her mama to visit the school, and on her return she exclaimed: 'Oh, dear papa, how quiet and plain all the girls at Lowood look, with their hair combed behind their ears, and their long pinafores, and those little holland pockets outside their frocks -- they are almost like poor people's children! and,' said she, 'they looked at my dress and mama's, as if they had never seen a silk gown before
This is the state of things I quite approve
had I sought all England over, I could scarcely have found a system more exactly fitting a child like Jane Eyre. Consistency, my dear Mr. Brocklehurst; I advocate consistency in all things
Consistency, madam, is the first of Christian duties; and it has been observed in every arrangement connected with the establishment of Lowood: plain fare, simple attire, unsophisticated accommodations, hardy and active habits; such is the order of the day in the house and its inhabitants
Quite right, sir. I may then depend upon this child being received as a pupil at Lowood, and there being trained in conformity to her position and prospects
Madam, you may: she shall be placed in that nursery of chosen plants, and I trust she will show herself grateful for the inestimable privilege of her election
I will send her, then, as soon as possible, Mr. Brocklehurst; for, I assure you, I feel anxious to be relieved of a responsibility that was becoming too irksome
No doubt, no doubt, madam; and now I wish you good morning. I shall return to Brocklehurst Hall in the course of a week or two: my good friend, the Archdeacon, will not permit me to leave him sooner. I shall send Miss Temple notice that she is to expect a new girl, so that there will he no difficulty about receiving her. Good-bye
Good-bye, Mr. Brocklehurst; remember me to Mrs. and Miss Brocklehurst, and to Augusta and Theodore, and Master Broughton Brocklehurst
I will, madam. Little girl, here is a book entitled the 'Child's Guide,' read it with prayer, especially that part containing 'An account of the awfully sudden death of Martha G -, a naughty child addicted to falsehood and deceit
Go out of the room; return to the nursery
I am not deceitful: if I were, I should say I loved you; but I declare I do not love you: I dislike you the worst of anybody in the world except John Reed; and this book about the liar, you may give to your girl, Georgiana, for it is she who tells lies, and not I
What more have you to say
I am glad you are no relation of mine: I will never call you aunt again as long as I live. I will never come to see you when I am grown up; and if any one asks me how I liked you, and how you treated me, I will say the very thought of you makes me sick, and that you treated me with miserable cruelty
How dare you affirm that, Jane Eyre
How dare I, Mrs. Reed? How dare I? Because it is the TRUTH. You think I have no feelings, and that I can do without one bit of love or kindness; but I cannot live so: and you have no pity. I shall remember how you thrust me back -- roughly and violently thrust me back -- into the red-room, and locked me up there, to my dying day; though I was in agony; though I cried out, while suffocating with distress, 'Have mercy! Have mercy, Aunt Reed!' And that punishment you made me suffer because your wicked boy struck me -- knocked me down for nothing. I will tell anybody who asks me questions, this exact tale. People think you a good woman, but you are bad, hard- hearted. YOU are deceitful
Jane, you are under a mistake: what is the matter with you? Why do you tremble so violently? Would you like to drink some water
No, Mrs. Reed
Is there anything else you wish for, Jane? I assure you, I desire to be your friend
Not you. You told Mr. Brocklehurst I had a bad character, a deceitful disposition; and I'll let everybody at Lowood know what you are, and what you have done
Jane, you don't understand these things: children must be corrected for their faults
Deceit is not my fault
But you are passionate, Jane, that you must allow: and now return to the nursery -- there's a dear -- and lie down a little
I am not your dear; I cannot lie down: send me to school soon, Mrs. Reed, for I hate to live here
I will indeed send her to school soon
onding on snaw
What shall I do? -- what shall I do
Miss Jane! where are you? Come to lunch
You naughty little thing
Why don't you come when you are called
Come, Bessie! don't scold
You are a strange child, Miss Jane
a little roving, solitary thing: and you are going to school, I suppose
And won't you be sorry to leave poor Bessie
What does Bessie care for me? She is always scolding me
Because you're such a queer, frightened, shy little thing. You should be bolder
What! to get more knocks
Nonsense! But you are rather put upon, that's certain. My mother said, when she came to see me last week, that she would not like a little one of her own to be in your place. -- Now, come in, and I've some good news for you
I don't think you have, Bessie
Child! what do you mean? What sorrowful eyes you fix on me! Well, but Missis and the young ladies and Master John are going out to tea this afternoon, and you shall have tea with me. I'll ask cook to bake you a little cake, and then you shall help me to look over your drawers; for I am soon to pack your trunk. Missis intends you to leave Gateshead in a day or two, and you shall choose what toys you like to take with you
Bessie, you must promise not to scold me any more till I go
Well, I will; but mind you are a very good girl, and don't be afraid of me. Don't start when I chance to speak rather sharply; it's so provoking
I don't think I shall ever be afraid of you again, Bessie, because I have got used to you, and I shall soon have another set of people to dread
If you dread them they'll dislike you
As you do, Bessie
I don't dislike you, Miss; I believe I am fonder of you than of all the others
You don't show it
You little sharp thing! you've got quite a new way of talking. What makes you so venturesome and hardy
Why, I shall soon be away from you, and besides
And so you're glad to leave me
Not at all, Bessie; indeed, just now I'm rather sorry
Just now! and rather! How coolly my little lady says it! I dare say now if I were to ask you for a kiss you wouldn't give it me: you'd say you'd RATHER not
I'll kiss you and welcome: bend your head down
Will you go in and bid Missis good-bye
No, Bessie: she came to my crib last night when you were gone down to supper, and said I need not disturb her in the morning, or my cousins either; and she told me to remember that she had always been my best friend, and to speak of her and be grateful to her accordingly
What did you say, Miss
Nothing: I covered my face with the bedclothes, and turned from her to the wall
That was wrong, Miss Jane
It was quite right, Bessie. Your Missis has not been my friend: she has been my foe
O Miss Jane! don't say so
Good-bye to Gateshead
Is she going by herself
Yes
And how far is it
Fifty miles
What a long way! I wonder Mrs. Reed is not afraid to trust her so far alone
Be sure and take good care of her
Ay, ay
All right
Is there a little girl called Jane Eyre here
Yes
The child is very young to be sent alone
She had better be put to bed soon; she looks tired: are you tired
A little, ma'am
And hungry too, no doubt: let her have some supper before she goes to bed, Miss Miller. Is this the first time you have left your parents to come to school, my little girl
She hoped I should be a good child
Monitors, collect the lesson-books and put them away! Four tall girls arose from different tables, and going round, gathered the books and removed them. Miss Miller again gave the word of command - "Monitors, fetch the supper-trays
Form classes
Silence
Order
Disgusting! The porridge is burnt again
Silence
Abominable stuff! How shameful
Silence! To your seats
Monitor of the first class, fetch the globes
I have a word to address to the pupils
You had this morning a breakfast which you could not eat; you must be hungry: -- I have ordered that a lunch of bread and cheese shall be served to all
It is to be done on my responsibility
To the garden
Lowood Institution. -- This portion was rebuilt A.D. -- , by Naomi Brocklehurst, of Brocklehurst Hall, in this county
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven
Institution
Rasselas
Is your book interesting
I like it
What is it about
You may look at it
Can you tell me what the writing on that stone over the door means? What is Lowood Institution
This house where you are come to live
And why do they call it Institution? Is it in any way different from other schools
It is partly a charity-school: you and I, and all the rest of us, are charity-children. I suppose you are an orphan: are not either your father or your mother dead
Both died before I can remember
Well, all the girls here have lost either one or both parents, and this is called an institution for educating orphans
Do we pay no money? Do they keep us for nothing
We pay, or our friends pay, fifteen pounds a year for each
Then why do they call us charity-children
Because fifteen pounds is not enough for board and teaching, and the deficiency is supplied by subscription
Who subscribes
Different benevolent-minded ladies and gentlemen in this neighbourhood and in London
Who was Naomi Brocklehurst
The lady who built the new part of this house as that tablet records, and whose son overlooks and directs everything here
Why
Because he is treasurer and manager of the establishment
Then this house does not belong to that tall lady who wears a watch, and who said we were to have some bread and cheese
To Miss Temple? Oh, no! I wish it did: she has to answer to Mr. Brocklehurst for all she does. Mr. Brocklehurst buys all our food and all our clothes
Does he live here
No -- two miles off, at a large hall
Is he a good man
He is a clergyman, and is said to do a great deal of good
Did you say that tall lady was called Miss Temple
Yes
And what are the other teachers called
The one with red cheeks is called Miss Smith; she attends to the work, and cuts out -- for we make our own clothes, our frocks, and pelisses, and everything; the little one with black hair is Miss Scatcherd; she teaches history and grammar, and hears the second class repetitions; and the one who wears a shawl, and has a pocket-handkerchief tied to her side with a yellow ribband, is Madame Pierrot: she comes from Lisle, in France, and teaches French
Do you like the teachers
Well enough
Do you like the little black one, and the Madame -? -- I cannot pronounce her name as you do
Miss Scatcherd is hasty -- you must take care not to offend her; Madame Pierrot is not a bad sort of person
But Miss Temple is the best -- isn't she
Miss Temple is very good and very clever; she is above the rest, because she knows far more than they do
Have you been long here
Two years
Are you an orphan
My mother is dead
Are you happy here
You ask rather too many questions. I have given you answers enough for the present: now I want to read
How can she bear it so quietly -- so firmly
Were I in her place, it seems to me I should wish the earth to open and swallow me up. She looks as if she were thinking of something beyond her punishment -- beyond her situation: of something not round her nor before her. I have heard of day-dreams -- is she in a day-dream now? Her eyes are fixed on the floor, but I am sure they do not see it -- her sight seems turned in, gone down into her heart: she is looking at what she can remember, I believe; not at what is really present. I wonder what sort of a girl she is -- whether good or naughty
Burns, you are standing on the side of your shoe; turn your toes out immediately
Burns, you poke your chin most unpleasantly; draw it in
Burns, I insist on your holding your head up; I will not have you before me in that attitude
You dirty, disagreeable girl! you have never cleaned your nails this morning
Why
does she not explain that she could neither clean her nails nor wash her face, as the water was frozen
Hardened girl
nothing can correct you of your slatternly habits: carry the rod away
Is it still 'Rasselas'
Yes
and I have just finished it
Now
I can perhaps get her to talk
What is your name besides Burns
Helen
Do you come a long way from here
I come from a place farther north, quite on the borders of Scotland
Will you ever go back
I hope so; but nobody can be sure of the future
You must wish to leave Lowood
No! why should I? I was sent to Lowood to get an education; and it would be of no use going away until I have attained that object
But that teacher, Miss Scatcherd, is so cruel to you
Cruel? Not at all! She is severe: she dislikes my faults
And if I were in your place I should dislike her; I should resist her. If she struck me with that rod, I should get it from her hand; I should break it under her nose
Probably you would do nothing of the sort: but if you did, Mr. Brocklehurst would expel you from the school; that would be a great grief to your relations. It is far better to endure patiently a smart which nobody feels but yourself, than to commit a hasty action whose evil consequences will extend to all connected with you; and besides, the Bible bids us return good for evil
But then it seems disgraceful to be flogged, and to be sent to stand in the middle of a room full of people; and you are such a great girl: I am far younger than you, and I could not bear it
Yet it would be your duty to bear it, if you could not avoid it: it is weak and silly to say you CANNOT BEAR what it is your fate to be required to bear
You say you have faults, Helen: what are they? To me you seem very good
Then learn from me, not to judge by appearances: I am, as Miss Scatcherd said, slatternly; I seldom put, and never keep, things, in order; I am careless; I forget rules; I read when I should learn my lessons; I have no method; and sometimes I say, like you, I cannot BEAR to be subjected to systematic arrangements. This is all very provoking to Miss Scatcherd, who is naturally neat, punctual, and particular
And cross and cruel
Is Miss Temple as severe to you as Miss Scatcherd
Miss Temple is full of goodness; it pains her to be severe to any one, even the worst in the school: she sees my errors, and tells me of them gently; and, if I do anything worthy of praise, she gives me my meed liberally. One strong proof of my wretchedly defective nature is, that even her expostulations, so mild, so rational, have not influence to cure me of my faults; and even her praise, though I value it most highly, cannot stimulate me to continued care and foresight
That is curious
it is so easy to be careful
For YOU I have no doubt it is. I observed you in your class this morning, and saw you were closely attentive: your thoughts never seemed to wander while Miss Miller explained the lesson and questioned you. Now, mine continually rove away; when I should be listening to Miss Scatcherd, and collecting all she says with assiduity, often I lose the very sound of her voice; I fall into a sort of dream. Sometimes I think I am in Northumberland, and that the noises I hear round me are the bubbling of a little brook which runs through Deepden, near our house; -- then, when it comes to my turn to reply, I have to be awakened; and having heard nothing of what was read for listening to the visionary brook, I have no answer ready
Yet how well you replied this afternoon
It was mere chance; the subject on which we had been reading had interested me. This afternoon, instead of dreaming of Deepden, I was wondering how a man who wished to do right could act so unjustly and unwisely as Charles the First sometimes did; and I thought what a pity it was that, with his integrity and conscientiousness, he could see no farther than the prerogatives of the crown. If he had but been able to look to a distance, and see how what they call the spirit of the age was tending! Still, I like Charles -- I respect him -- I pity him, poor murdered king! Yes, his enemies were the worst: they shed blood they had no right to shed. How dared they kill him
And when Miss Temple teaches you, do your thoughts wander then
No, certainly, not often; because Miss Temple has generally something to say which is newer than my own reflections; her language is singularly agreeable to me, and the information she communicates is often just what I wished to gain
Well, then, with Miss Temple you are good
Yes, in a passive way: I make no effort; I follow as inclination guides me. There is no merit in such goodness
A great deal: you are good to those who are good to you. It is all I ever desire to be. If people were always kind and obedient to those who are cruel and unjust, the wicked people would have it all their own way: they would never feel afraid, and so they would never alter, but would grow worse and worse. When we are struck at without a reason, we should strike back again very hard; I am sure we should -- so hard as to teach the person who struck us never to do it again
You will change your mind, I hope, when you grow older: as yet you are but a little untaught girl
But I feel this, Helen; I must dislike those who, whatever I do to please them, persist in disliking me; I must resist those who punish me unjustly. It is as natural as that I should love those who show me affection, or submit to punishment when I feel it is deserved
Heathens and savage tribes hold that doctrine, but Christians and civilised nations disown it
How? I don't understand
It is not violence that best overcomes hate -- nor vengeance that most certainly heals injury
What then
Read the New Testament, and observe what Christ says, and how He acts; make His word your rule, and His conduct your example
What does He say
Love your enemies; bless them that curse you; do good to them that hate you and despitefully use you
Then I should love Mrs. Reed, which I cannot do; I should bless her son John, which is impossible
Well
is not Mrs. Reed a hard-hearted, bad woman
She has been unkind to you, no doubt; because you see, she dislikes your cast of character, as Miss Scatcherd does mine; but how minutely you remember all she has done and said to you! What a singularly deep impression her injustice seems to have made on your heart! No ill-usage so brands its record on my feelings. Would you not be happier if you tried to forget her severity, together with the passionate emotions it excited? Life appears to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity or registering wrongs. We are, and must be, one and all, burdened with faults in this world: but the time will soon come when, I trust, we shall put them off in putting off our corruptible bodies; when debasement and sin will fall from us with this cumbrous frame of flesh, and only the spark of the spirit will remain, -- the impalpable principle of light and thought, pure as when it left the Creator to inspire the creature: whence it came it will return; perhaps again to be communicated to some being higher than man -- perhaps to pass through gradations of glory, from the pale human soul to brighten to the seraph! Surely it will never, on the contrary, be suffered to degenerate from man to fiend? No; I cannot believe that: I hold another creed: which no one ever taught me, and which I seldom mention; but in which I delight, and to which I cling: for it extends hope to all: it makes Eternity a rest -- a mighty home, not a terror and an abyss. Besides, with this creed, I can so clearly distinguish between the criminal and his crime; I can so sincerely forgive the first while I abhor the last: with this creed revenge never worries my heart, degradation never too deeply disgusts me, injustice never crushes me too low: I live in calm, looking to the end
Helen Burns, if you don't go and put your drawer in order, and fold up your work this minute, I'll tell Miss Scatcherd to come and look at it
like stalwart soldiers
Coming Man
I suppose, Miss Temple, the thread I bought at Lowton will do; it struck me that it would be just of the quality for the calico chemises, and I sorted the needles to match. You may tell Miss Smith that I forgot to make a memorandum of the darning needles, but she shall have some papers sent in next week; and she is not, on any account, to give out more than one at a time to each pupil: if they have more, they are apt to be careless and lose them. And, O ma'am! I wish the woollen stockings were better looked to! -- when I was here last, I went into the kitchen-garden and examined the clothes drying on the line; there was a quantity of black hose in a very bad state of repair: from the size of the holes in them I was sure they had not been well mended from time to time
Your directions shall be attended to, sir
And, ma'am
the laundress tells me some of the girls have two clean tuckers in the week: it is too much; the rules limit them to one
I think I can explain that circumstance, sir. Agnes and Catherine Johnstone were invited to take tea with some friends at Lowton last Thursday, and I gave them leave to put on clean tuckers for the occasion
Well, for once it may pass; but please not to let the circumstance occur too often. And there is another thing which surprised me; I find, in settling accounts with the housekeeper, that a lunch, consisting of bread and cheese, has twice been served out to the girls during the past fortnight. How is this? I looked over the regulations, and I find no such meal as lunch mentioned. Who introduced this innovation? and by what authority
I must be responsible for the circumstance, sir
the breakfast was so ill prepared that the pupils could not possibly eat it; and I dared not allow them to remain fasting till dinner-time
If ye suffer hunger or thirst for My sake, happy are ye
Miss Temple, Miss Temple, what -- WHAT is that girl with curled hair? Red hair, ma'am, curled -- curled all over
It is Julia Severn
Julia Severn, ma'am! And why has she, or any other, curled hair? Why, in defiance of every precept and principle of this house, does she conform to the world so openly -- here in an evangelical, charitable establishment -- as to wear her hair one mass of curls
Julia's hair curls naturally
Naturally! Yes, but we are not to conform to nature; I wish these girls to be the children of Grace: and why that abundance? I have again and again intimated that I desire the hair to be arranged closely, modestly, plainly. Miss Temple, that girl's hair must be cut off entirely; I will send a barber to-morrow: and I see others who have far too much of the excrescence -- that tall girl, tell her to turn round. Tell all the first form to rise up and direct their faces to the wall
All those top-knots must be cut off
Madam
A careless girl
It is the new pupil, I perceive
I must not forget I have a word to say respecting her
Let the child who broke her slate come forward
Don't be afraid, Jane, I saw it was an accident; you shall not be punished
Another minute, and she will despise me for a hypocrite
Fetch that stool
Place the child upon it
Ladies
Miss Temple, teachers, and children, you all see this girl
You see she is yet young; you observe she possesses the ordinary form of childhood; God has graciously given her the shape that He has given to all of us; no signal deformity points her out as a marked character. Who would think that the Evil One had already found a servant and agent in her? Yet such, I grieve to say, is the case
My dear children
this is a sad, a melancholy occasion; for it becomes my duty to warn you, that this girl, who might be one of God's own lambs, is a little castaway: not a member of the true flock, but evidently an interloper and an alien. You must be on your guard against her; you must shun her example; if necessary, avoid her company, exclude her from your sports, and shut her out from your converse. Teachers, you must watch her: keep your eyes on her movements, weigh well her words, scrutinise her actions, punish her body to save her soul: if, indeed, such salvation be possible, for (my tongue falters while I tell it) this girl, this child, the native of a Christian land, worse than many a little heathen who says its prayers to Brahma and kneels before Juggernaut -- this girl is -- a liar
How shocking
This I learned from her benefactress; from the pious and charitable lady who adopted her in her orphan state, reared her as her own daughter, and whose kindness, whose generosity the unhappy girl repaid by an ingratitude so bad, so dreadful, that at last her excellent patroness was obliged to separate her from her own young ones, fearful lest her vicious example should contaminate their purity: she has sent her here to be healed, even as the Jews of old sent their diseased to the troubled pool of Bethesda; and, teachers, superintendent, I beg of you not to allow the waters to stagnate round her
Let her stand half-an-hour longer on that stool, and let no one speak to her during the remainder of the day
the untidy badge
Never
Come, eat something
Helen, why do you stay with a girl whom everybody believes to be a liar
Everybody, Jane? Why, there are only eighty people who have heard you called so, and the world contains hundreds of millions
But what have I to do with millions? The eighty, I know, despise me
Jane, you are mistaken: probably not one in the school either despises or dislikes you: many, I am sure, pity you much
How can they pity me after what Mr. Brocklehurst has said
Mr. Brocklehurst is not a god: nor is he even a great and admired man: he is little liked here; he never took steps to make himself liked. Had he treated you as an especial favourite, you would have found enemies, declared or covert, all around you; as it is, the greater number would offer you sympathy if they dared. Teachers and pupils may look coldly on you for a day or two, but friendly feelings are concealed in their hearts; and if you persevere in doing well, these feelings will ere long appear so much the more evidently for their temporary suppression. Besides, Jane
Well, Helen
If all the world hated you, and believed you wicked, while your own conscience approved you, and absolved you from guilt, you would not be without friends
Hush, Jane! you think too much of the love of human beings; you are too impulsive, too vehement; the sovereign hand that created your frame, and put life into it, has provided you with other resources than your feeble self, or than creatures feeble as you. Besides this earth, and besides the race of men, there is an invisible world and a kingdom of spirits: that world is round us, for it is everywhere; and those spirits watch us, for they are commissioned to guard us; and if we were dying in pain and shame, if scorn smote us on all sides, and hatred crushed us, angels see our tortures, recognise our innocence (if innocent we be: as I know you are of this charge which Mr. Brocklehurst has weakly and pompously repeated at second-hand from Mrs. Reed; for I read a sincere nature in your ardent eyes and on your clear front), and God waits only the separation of spirit from flesh to crown us with a full reward. Why, then, should we ever sink overwhelmed with distress, when life is so soon over, and death is so certain an entrance to happiness -- to glory
I came on purpose to find you, Jane Eyre
I want you in my room; and as Helen Burns is with you, she may come too
Is it all over
Have you cried your grief away
I am afraid I never shall do that
Why
Because I have been wrongly accused; and you, ma'am, and everybody else, will now think me wicked
We shall think you what you prove yourself to be, my child. Continue to act as a good girl, and you will satisfy us
Shall I, Miss Temple
You will
And now tell me who is the lady whom Mr. Brocklehurst called your benefactress
Mrs. Reed, my uncle's wife. My uncle is dead, and he left me to her care
Did she not, then, adopt you of her own accord
No, ma'am; she was sorry to have to do it: but my uncle, as I have often heard the servants say, got her to promise before he died that she would always keep me
Well now, Jane, you know, or at least I will tell you, that when a criminal is accused, he is always allowed to speak in his own defence. You have been charged with falsehood; defend yourself to me as well as you can. Say whatever your memory suggests is true; but add nothing and exaggerate nothing
I know something of Mr. Lloyd; I shall write to him; if his reply agrees with your statement, you shall be publicly cleared from every imputation; to me, Jane, you are clear now
How are you to-night, Helen? Have you coughed much to-day
Not quite so much, I think, ma'am
And the pain in your chest
It is a little better
But you two are my visitors to-night; I must treat you as such
Barbara
I have not yet had tea; bring the tray and place cups for these two young ladies
Barbara
can you not bring a little more bread and butter? There is not enough for three
Madam, Mrs. Harden says she has sent up the usual quantity
Oh, very well
we must make it do, Barbara, I suppose
Fortunately, I have it in my power to supply deficiencies for this once
I meant to give each of you some of this to take with you
but as there is so little toast, you must have it now
God bless you, my children
My things were indeed in shameful disorder
I intended to have arranged them, but I forgot
Slattern
Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith
How sad to be lying now on a sick bed, and to be in danger of dying! This world is pleasant -- it would be dreary to be called from it, and to have to go who knows where
How is Helen Burns
Very poorly
Is it her Mr. Bates has been to see
Yes
And what does he say about her
He says she'll not be here long
She is in Miss Temple's room
May I go up and speak to her
Oh no, child! It is not likely; and now it is time for you to come in; you'll catch the fever if you stop out when the dew is falling
Helen
are you awake
Can it be you, Jane
Oh
she is not going to die; they are mistaken: she could not speak and look so calmly if she were
Why are you come here, Jane? It is past eleven o'clock: I heard it strike some minutes since
I came to see you, Helen: I heard you were very ill, and I could not sleep till I had spoken to you
You came to bid me good-bye, then: you are just in time probably
Are you going somewhere, Helen? Are you going home
Yes; to my long home -- my last home
No, no, Helen
Jane, your little feet are bare; lie down and cover yourself with my quilt
I am very happy, Jane; and when you hear that I am dead, you must be sure and not grieve: there is nothing to grieve about. We all must die one day, and the illness which is removing me is not painful; it is gentle and gradual: my mind is at rest. I leave no one to regret me much: I have only a father; and he is lately married, and will not miss me. By dying young, I shall escape great sufferings. I had not qualities or talents to make my way very well in the world: I should have been continually at fault
But where are you going to, Helen? Can you see? Do you know
I believe; I have faith: I am going to God
Where is God? What is God
My Maker and yours, who will never destroy what He created. I rely implicitly on His power, and confide wholly in His goodness: I count the hours till that eventful one arrives which shall restore me to Him, reveal Him to me
You are sure, then, Helen, that there is such a place as heaven, and that our souls can get to it when we die
I am sure there is a future state; I believe God is good; I can resign my immortal part to Him without any misgiving. God is my father; God is my friend: I love Him; I believe He loves me
And shall I see you again, Helen, when I die
You will come to the same region of happiness: be received by the same mighty, universal Parent, no doubt, dear Jane
Where is that region? Does it exist
How comfortable I am! That last fit of coughing has tired me a little; I feel as if I could sleep: but don't leave me, Jane; I like to have you near me
I'll stay with you, DEAR Helen: no one shall take me away
Are you warm, darling
Yes
Good-night, Jane
Good-night, Helen
Resurgam
Then
grant me at least a new servitude
A new servitude! There is something in that
I know there is, because it does not sound too sweet; it is not like such words as Liberty, Excitement, Enjoyment: delightful sounds truly; but no more than sounds for me; and so hollow and fleeting that it is mere waste of time to listen to them. But Servitude! That must be matter of fact. Any one may serve: I have served here eight years; now all I want is to serve elsewhere. Can I not get so much of my own will? Is not the thing feasible? Yes -- yes -- the end is not so difficult; if I had only a brain active enough to ferret out the means of attaining it
What do I want? A new place, in a new house, amongst new faces, under new circumstances: I want this because it is of no use wanting anything better. How do people do to get a new place? They apply to friends, I suppose: I have no friends. There are many others who have no friends, who must look about for themselves and be their own helpers; and what is their resource
Those who want situations advertise; you must advertise in the -shire Herald
How? I know nothing about advertising
You must enclose the advertisement and the money to pay for it under a cover directed to the editor of the Herald; you must put it, the first opportunity you have, into the post at Lowton; answers must be addressed to J.E., at the post-office there; you can go and inquire in about a week after you send your letter, if any are come, and act accordingly
Address, J.E., Post-office, Lowton, -shire
Are there any letters for J.E
Is there only one
There are no more
If J.E., who advertised in the -shire Herald of last Thursday, possesses the acquirements mentioned, and if she is in a position to give satisfactory references as to character and competency, a situation can be offered her where there is but one pupil, a little girl, under ten years of age; and where the salary is thirty pounds per annum. J.E. is requested to send references, name, address, and all particulars to the direction:- "Mrs. Fairfax, Thornfield, near Millcote, -shire
but
Thornfield will, probably, be a good way from the town
I might do as I pleased: she had long relinquished all interference in my affairs
Miss
a person below wishes to see you
The carrier, no doubt
It's her, I am sure! -- I could have told her anywhere
Well, who is it
you've not quite forgotten me, I think, Miss Jane
Bessie! Bessie! Bessie
That is my little boy
Then you are married, Bessie
Yes; nearly five years since to Robert Leaven, the coachman; and I've a little girl besides Bobby there, that I've christened Jane
And you don't live at Gateshead
I live at the lodge: the old porter has left
Well, and how do they all get on? Tell me everything about them, Bessie: but sit down first; and, Bobby, come and sit on my knee, will you
You're not grown so very tall, Miss Jane, nor so very stout
I dare say they've not kept you too well at school: Miss Reed is the head and shoulders taller than you are; and Miss Georgiana would make two of you in breadth
Georgiana is handsome, I suppose, Bessie
Well, and what of John Reed
Oh, he is not doing so well as his mama could wish. He went to college, and he got -- plucked, I think they call it: and then his uncles wanted him to be a barrister, and study the law: but he is such a dissipated young man, they will never make much of him, I think
What does he look like
He is very tall: some people call him a fine-looking young man; but he has such thick lips
And Mrs. Reed
Missis looks stout and well enough in the face, but I think she's not quite easy in her mind: Mr. John's conduct does not please her- -he spends a deal of money
Did she send you here, Bessie
No, indeed: but I have long wanted to see you, and when I heard that there had been a letter from you, and that you were going to another part of the country, I thought I'd just set off, and get a look at you before you were quite out of my reach
I am afraid you are disappointed in me, Bessie
No, Miss Jane, not exactly: you are genteel enough; you look like a lady, and it is as much as ever I expected of you: you were no beauty as a child
I dare say you are clever, though
What can you do? Can you play on the piano
A little
The Miss Reeds could not play as well
I always said you would surpass them in learning: and can you draw
That is one of my paintings over the chimney-piece
Well, that is beautiful, Miss Jane! It is as fine a picture as any Miss Reed's drawing-master could paint, let alone the young ladies themselves, who could not come near it: and have you learnt French
Yes, Bessie, I can both read it and speak it
And you can work on muslin and canvas
I can
Oh, you are quite a lady, Miss Jane! I knew you would be: you will get on whether your relations notice you or not. There was something I wanted to ask you. Have you ever heard anything from your father's kinsfolk, the Eyres
Never in my life
Well, you know Missis always said they were poor and quite despicable: and they may be poor; but I believe they are as much gentry as the Reeds are; for one day, nearly seven years ago, a Mr. Eyre came to Gateshead and wanted to see you; Missis said you were it school fifty miles off; he seemed so much disappointed, for he could not stay: he was going on a voyage to a foreign country, and the ship was to sail from London in a day or two. He looked quite a gentleman, and I believe he was your father's brother
What foreign country was he going to, Bessie
Madeira
Yes, that is it -- that is the very word
So he went
Yes; he did not stay many minutes in the house: Missis was very high with him; she called him afterwards a 'sneaking tradesman.' My Robert believes he was a wine-merchant
Very likely
or perhaps clerk or agent to a wine-merchant
Is there a place in this neighbourhood called Thornfield
Thornfield? I don't know, ma'am; I'll inquire at the bar
Is your name Eyre, Miss
Yes
Person here waiting for you
This will be your luggage, I suppose
Yes
A matter of six miles
How long shall we be before we get there
Happen an hour and a half
I suppose
judging from the plainness of the servant and carriage, Mrs. Fairfax is not a very dashing person: so much the better; I never lived amongst fine people but once, and I was very miserable with them. I wonder if she lives alone except this little girl; if so, and if she is in any degree amiable, I shall surely be able to get on with her; I will do my best; it is a pity that doing one's best does not always answer. At Lowood, indeed, I took that resolution, kept it, and succeeded in pleasing; but with Mrs. Reed, I remember my best was always spurned with scorn. I pray God Mrs. Fairfax may not turn out a second Mrs. Reed; but if she does, I am not bound to stay with her! let the worst come to the worst, I can advertise again. How far are we on our road now, I wonder
You're noan so far fro' Thornfield now
Will you walk this way, ma'am
How do you do, my dear? I am afraid you have had a tedious ride; John drives so slowly; you must be cold, come to the fire
Mrs. Fairfax, I suppose
Yes, you are right: do sit down
Oh, it is no trouble; I dare say your own hands are almost numbed with cold. Leah, make a little hot negus and cut a sandwich or two: here are the keys of the storeroom
Now, then, draw nearer to the fire
You've brought your luggage with you, haven't you, my dear
Yes, ma'am
I'll see it carried into your room
She treats me like a visitor
I little expected such a reception; I anticipated only coldness and stiffness: this is not like what I have heard of the treatment of governesses; but I must not exult too soon
Shall I have the pleasure of seeing Miss Fairfax to-night
What did you say, my dear? I am a little deaf
Miss Fairfax? Oh, you mean Miss Varens! Varens is the name of your future pupil
Indeed! Then she is not your daughter
No, -- I have no family
I am so glad
I am so glad you are come; it will be quite pleasant living here now with a companion. To be sure it is pleasant at any time; for Thornfield is a fine old hall, rather neglected of late years perhaps, but still it is a respectable place; yet you know in winter-time one feels dreary quite alone in the best quarters. I say alone -- Leah is a nice girl to be sure, and John and his wife are very decent people; but then you see they are only servants, and one can't converse with them on terms of equality: one must keep them at due distance, for fear of losing one's authority. I'm sure last winter (it was a very severe one, if you recollect, and when it did not snow, it rained and blew), not a creature but the butcher and postman came to the house, from November till February; and I really got quite melancholy with sitting night after night alone; I had Leah in to read to me sometimes; but I don't think the poor girl liked the task much: she felt it confining. In spring and summer one got on better: sunshine and long days make such a difference; and then, just at the commencement of this autumn, little Adela Varens came and her nurse: a child makes a house alive all at once; and now you are here I shall be quite gay
But I'll not keep you sitting up late to-night
it is on the stroke of twelve now, and you have been travelling all day: you must feel tired. If you have got your feet well warmed, I'll show you your bedroom. I've had the room next to mine prepared for you; it is only a small apartment, but I thought you would like it better than one of the large front chambers: to be sure they have finer furniture, but they are so dreary and solitary, I never sleep in them myself
What! out already
I see you are an early riser
How do you like Thornfield
Yes
it is a pretty place; but I fear it will be getting out of order, unless Mr. Rochester should take it into his head to come and reside here permanently; or, at least, visit it rather oftener: great houses and fine grounds require the presence of the proprietor
Mr. Rochester
Who is he
The owner of Thornfield
Did you not know he was called Rochester
I thought
Thornfield belonged to you
To me? Bless you, child; what an idea! To me! I am only the housekeeper -- the manager. To be sure I am distantly related to the Rochesters by the mother's side, or at least my husband was; he was a clergyman, incumbent of Hay -- that little village yonder on the hill -- and that church near the gates was his. The present Mr. Rochester's mother was a Fairfax, and second cousin to my husband: but I never presume on the connection -- in fact, it is nothing to me; I consider myself quite in the light of an ordinary housekeeper: my employer is always civil, and I expect nothing more
And the little girl -- my pupil
She is Mr. Rochester's ward; he commissioned me to find a governess for her. He intended to have her brought up in -shire, I believe. Here she comes, with her 'bonne,' as she calls her nurse
Good morning, Miss Adela
Come and speak to the lady who is to teach you, and to make you a clever woman some day
C'est le ma gouverante
Mais oui, certainement
Are they foreigners
The nurse is a foreigner, and Adela was born on the Continent; and, I believe, never left it till within six months ago. When she first came here she could speak no English; now she can make shift to talk it a little: I don't understand her, she mixes it so with French; but you will make out her meaning very well, I dare say
Ah
you speak my language as well as Mr. Rochester does: I can talk to you as I can to him, and so can Sophie. She will be glad: nobody here understands her: Madame Fairfax is all English. Sophie is my nurse; she came with me over the sea in a great ship with a chimney that smoked -- how it did smoke! -- and I was sick, and so was Sophie, and so was Mr. Rochester. Mr. Rochester lay down on a sofa in a pretty room called the salon, and Sophie and I had little beds in another place. I nearly fell out of mine; it was like a shelf. And Mademoiselle -- what is your name
Eyre -- Jane Eyre
Aire? Bah! I cannot say it. Well, our ship stopped in the morning, before it was quite daylight, at a great city -- a huge city, with very dark houses and all smoky; not at all like the pretty clean town I came from; and Mr. Rochester carried me in his arms over a plank to the land, and Sophie came after, and we all got into a coach, which took us to a beautiful large house, larger than this and finer, called an hotel. We stayed there nearly a week: I and Sophie used to walk every day in a great green place full of trees, called the Park; and there were many children there besides me, and a pond with beautiful birds in it, that I fed with crumbs
Can you understand her when she runs on so fast
I wish
you would ask her a question or two about her parents: I wonder if she remembers them
Adele
with whom did you live when you were in that pretty clean town you spoke of
I lived long ago with mama; but she is gone to the Holy Virgin. Mama used to teach me to dance and sing, and to say verses. A great many gentlemen and ladies came to see mama, and I used to dance before them, or to sit on their knees and sing to them: I liked it. Shall I let you hear me sing now
Now, Mademoiselle, I will repeat you some poetry
La Ligue des Rats: fable de La Fontaine
Was it your mama who taught you that piece
Yes, and she just used to say it in this way: 'Qu' avez vous donc? lui dit un de ces rats; parlez!' She made me lift my hand -- so -- to remind me to raise my voice at the question. Now shall I dance for you
No, that will do: but after your mama went to the Holy Virgin, as you say, with whom did you live then
With Madame Frederic and her husband: she took care of me, but she is nothing related to me. I think she is poor, for she had not so fine a house as mama. I was not long there. Mr. Rochester asked me if I would like to go and live with him in England, and I said yes; for I knew Mr. Rochester before I knew Madame Frederic, and he was always kind to me and gave me pretty dresses and toys: but you see he has not kept his word, for he has brought me to England, and now he is gone back again himself, and I never see him
Your morning school-hours are over now, I suppose
What a beautiful room
Yes; this is the dining-room. I have just opened the window, to let in a little air and sunshine; for everything gets so damp in apartments that are seldom inhabited; the drawing-room yonder feels like a vault
In what order you keep these rooms, Mrs. Fairfax
No dust, no canvas coverings: except that the air feels chilly, one would think they were inhabited daily
Why, Miss Eyre, though Mr. Rochester's visits here are rare, they are always sudden and unexpected; and as I observed that it put him out to find everything swathed up, and to have a bustle of arrangement on his arrival, I thought it best to keep the rooms in readiness
Is Mr. Rochester an exacting, fastidious sort of man
Not particularly so; but he has a gentleman's tastes and habits, and he expects to have things managed in conformity to them
Do you like him? Is he generally liked
Oh, yes; the family have always been respected here. Almost all the land in this neighbourhood, as far as you can see, has belonged to the Rochesters time out of mind
Well, but, leaving his land out of the question, do you like him? Is he liked for himself
I have no cause to do otherwise than like him; and I believe he is considered a just and liberal landlord by his tenants: but he has never lived much amongst them
But has he no peculiarities? What, in short, is his character
Oh! his character is unimpeachable, I suppose. He is rather peculiar, perhaps: he has travelled a great deal, and seen a great deal of the world, I should think. I dare say he is clever, but I never had much conversation with him
In what way is he peculiar
I don't know -- it is not easy to describe -- nothing striking, but you feel it when he speaks to you; you cannot be always sure whether he is in jest or earnest, whether he is pleased or the contrary; you don't thoroughly understand him, in short -- at least, I don't: but it is of no consequence, he is a very good master
Do the servants sleep in these rooms
No; they occupy a range of smaller apartments to the back; no one ever sleeps here: one would almost say that, if there were a ghost at Thornfield Hall, this would be its haunt
So I think: you have no ghost, then
None that I ever heard of
Nor any traditions of one? no legends or ghost stories
I believe not. And yet it is said the Rochesters have been rather a violent than a quiet race in their time: perhaps, though, that is the reason they rest tranquilly in their graves now
Yes -- 'after life's fitful fever they sleep well
Where are you going now, Mrs. Fairfax
On to the leads; will you come and see the view from thence
Mrs. Fairfax
Did you hear that loud laugh? Who is it
Some of the servants, very likely
perhaps Grace Poole
Did you hear it
Yes, plainly: I often hear her: she sews in one of these rooms. Sometimes Leah is with her; they are frequently noisy together
Grace
Too much noise, Grace
Remember directions
She is a person we have to sew and assist Leah in her housemaid's work
not altogether unobjectionable in some points, but she does well enough. By-the-bye, how have you got on with your new pupil this morning
Mesdames, vous etes servies
J'ai bien faim, moi
Revenez bientot, ma bonne amie, ma chere Mdlle. Jeannette
Gytrash
What the deuce is to do now
Are you injured, sir
Can I do anything
You must just stand on one side
Down, Pilot
If you are hurt, and want help, sir, I can fetch some one either from Thornfield Hall or from Hay
Thank you: I shall do: I have no broken bones, -- only a sprain
Ugh
I cannot think of leaving you, sir, at so late an hour, in this solitary lane, till I see you are fit to mount your horse
I should think you ought to be at home yourself
if you have a home in this neighbourhood: where do you come from
From just below; and I am not at all afraid of being out late when it is moonlight: I will run over to Hay for you with pleasure, if you wish it: indeed, I am going there to post a letter
You live just below -- do you mean at that house with the battlements
Yes, sir
Whose house is it
Mr. Rochester's
Do you know Mr. Rochester
No, I have never seen him
He is not resident, then
No
Can you tell me where he is
I cannot
You are not a servant at the hall, of course. You are -- " He stopped, ran his eye over my dress, which, as usual, was quite simple: a black merino cloak, a black beaver bonnet; neither of them half fine enough for a lady's-maid. He seemed puzzled to decide what I was; I helped him. "I am the governess
Ah, the governess
deuce take me, if I had not forgotten! The governess
I cannot commission you to fetch help
but you may help me a little yourself, if you will be so kind
Yes, sir
You have not an umbrella that I can use as a stick
No
Try to get hold of my horse's bridle and lead him to me: you are not afraid
I see
the mountain will never be brought to Mahomet, so all you can do is to aid Mahomet to go to the mountain; I must beg of you to come here
Excuse me
necessity compels me to make you useful
Now
just hand me my whip; it lies there under the hedge
Thank you; now make haste with the letter to Hay, and return as fast as you can
Like heath that, in the wilderness, The wild wind whirls away
What dog is this
He came with master
With whom
With master -- Mr. Rochester -- he is just arrived
Indeed! and is Mrs. Fairfax with him
Yes, and Miss Adele; they are in the dining-room, and John is gone for a surgeon; for master has had an accident; his horse fell and his ankle is sprained
Did the horse fall in Hay Lane
Yes, coming down-hill; it slipped on some ice
Ah! Bring me a candle will you Leah
ami, Monsieur Edouard Fairfax DE Rochester
Et cela doit signifier
qu'il y aura le dedans un cadeau pour moi, et peut-etre pour vous aussi, mademoiselle. Monsieur a parle de vous: il m'a demande le nom de ma gouvernante, et si elle n'etait pas une petite personne, assez mince et un peu pale. J'ai dit qu'oui: car c'est vrai, n'est-ce pas, mademoiselle
Mr. Rochester would be glad if you and your pupil would take tea with him in the drawing-room this evening
he has been so much engaged all day that he could not ask to see you before
When is his tea-time
Oh, at six o'clock: he keeps early hours in the country. You had better change your frock now; I will go with you and fasten it. Here is a candle
Is it necessary to change my frock
Yes, you had better: I always dress for the evening when Mr. Rochester is here
You want a brooch
Here is Miss Eyre, sir
Let Miss Eyre be seated
What the deuce is it to me whether Miss Eyre be there or not? At this moment I am not disposed to accost her
Madam, I should like some tea
Will you hand Mr. Rochester's cup
Adele might perhaps spill it
N'est-ce pas, monsieur, qu'il y a un cadeau pour Mademoiselle Eyre dans votre petit coffre
Who talks of cadeaux
Did you expect a present, Miss Eyre? Are you fond of presents
I hardly know, sir; I have little experience of them: they are generally thought pleasant things
Generally thought? But what do YOU think
I should be obliged to take time, sir, before I could give you an answer worthy of your acceptance: a present has many faces to it, has it not? and one should consider all, before pronouncing an opinion as to its nature
Miss Eyre, you are not so unsophisticated as Adele: she demands a 'cadeau,' clamorously, the moment she sees me: you beat about the bush
Because I have less confidence in my deserts than Adele has: she can prefer the claim of old acquaintance, and the right too of custom; for she says you have always been in the habit of giving her playthings; but if I had to make out a case I should be puzzled, since I am a stranger, and have done nothing to entitle me to an acknowledgment
Oh, don't fall back on over-modesty! I have examined Adele, and find you have taken great pains with her: she is not bright, she has no talents; yet in a short time she has made much improvement
Sir, you have now given me my 'cadeau;' I am obliged to you: it is the meed teachers most covet -- praise of their pupils' progress
Humph
Come to the fire
You have been resident in my house three months
Yes, sir
And you came from
From Lowood school, in -shire
Ah! a charitable concern. How long were you there
Eight years
Eight years! you must be tenacious of life. I thought half the time in such a place would have done up any constitution! No wonder you have rather the look of another world. I marvelled where you had got that sort of face. When you came on me in Hay Lane last night, I thought unaccountably of fairy tales, and had half a mind to demand whether you had bewitched my horse: I am not sure yet. Who are your parents
I have none
Nor ever had, I suppose: do you remember them
No
I thought not. And so you were waiting for your people when you sat on that stile
For whom, sir
For the men in green: it was a proper moonlight evening for them. Did I break through one of your rings, that you spread that damned ice on the causeway
The men in green all forsook England a hundred years ago
And not even in Hay Lane, or the fields about it, could you find a trace of them. I don't think either summer or harvest, or winter moon, will ever shine on their revels more
Well
if you disown parents, you must have some sort of kinsfolk: uncles and aunts
No; none that I ever saw
And your home
I have none
Where do your brothers and sisters live
I have no brothers or sisters
Who recommended you to come here
I advertised, and Mrs. Fairfax answered my advertisement
Yes
and I am daily thankful for the choice Providence led me to make. Miss Eyre has been an invaluable companion to me, and a kind and careful teacher to Adele
Don't trouble yourself to give her a character
eulogiums will not bias me; I shall judge for myself. She began by felling my horse
Sir
I have to thank her for this sprain
Miss Eyre, have you ever lived in a town
No, sir
Have you seen much society
None but the pupils and teachers of Lowood, and now the inmates of Thornfield
Have you read much
Only such books as came in my way; and they have not been numerous or very learned
You have lived the life of a nun: no doubt you are well drilled in religious forms; -- Brocklehurst, who I understand directs Lowood, is a parson, is he not
Yes, sir
And you girls probably worshipped him, as a convent full of religieuses would worship their director
Oh, no
You are very cool! No! What! a novice not worship her priest! That sounds blasphemous
I disliked Mr. Brocklehurst; and I was not alone in the feeling. He is a harsh man; at once pompous and meddling; he cut off our hair; and for economy's sake bought us bad needles and thread, with which we could hardly sew
That was very false economy
And was that the head and front of his offending
He starved us when he had the sole superintendence of the provision department, before the committee was appointed; and he bored us with long lectures once a week, and with evening readings from books of his own inditing, about sudden deaths and judgments, which made us afraid to go to bed
What age were you when you went to Lowood
About ten
And you stayed there eight years: you are now, then, eighteen
Arithmetic, you see, is useful; without its aid, I should hardly have been able to guess your age. It is a point difficult to fix where the features and countenance are so much at variance as in your case. And now what did you learn at Lowood? Can you play
A little
Of course: that is the established answer. Go into the library -- I mean, if you please. -- (Excuse my tone of command; I am used to say, 'Do this,' and it is done: I cannot alter my customary habits for one new inmate.) -- Go, then, into the library; take a candle with you; leave the door open; sit down to the piano, and play a tune
Enough
You play A LITTLE, I see; like any other English school-girl; perhaps rather better than some, but not well
Adele showed me some sketches this morning, which she said were yours. I don't know whether they were entirely of your doing; probably a master aided you
No, indeed
Ah! that pricks pride. Well, fetch me your portfolio, if you can vouch for its contents being original; but don't pass your word unless you are certain: I can recognise patchwork
Then I will say nothing, and you shall judge for yourself, sir
Approach the table
No crowding
take the drawings from my hand as I finish with them; but don't push your faces up to mine
Take them off to the other table, Mrs. Fairfax
resume your seat, and answer my questions. I perceive those pictures were done by one hand: was that hand yours
Yes
And when did you find time to do them? They have taken much time, and some thought
I did them in the last two vacations I spent at Lowood, when I had no other occupation
Where did you get your copies
Out of my head
That head I see now on your shoulders
Yes, sir
Has it other furniture of the same kind within
I should think it may have: I should hope -- better
the likeness of a kingly crown
the shape which shape had none
Were you happy when you painted these pictures
I was absorbed, sir: yes, and I was happy. To paint them, in short, was to enjoy one of the keenest pleasures I have ever known
That is not saying much. Your pleasures, by your own account, have been few; but I daresay you did exist in a kind of artist's dreamland while you blent and arranged these strange tints. Did you sit at them long each day
I had nothing else to do, because it was the vacation, and I sat at them from morning till noon, and from noon till night: the length of the midsummer days favoured my inclination to apply
And you felt self-satisfied with the result of your ardent labours
Far from it. I was tormented by the contrast between my idea and my handiwork: in each case I had imagined something which I was quite powerless to realise
Not quite: you have secured the shadow of your thought; but no more, probably. You had not enough of the artist's skill and science to give it full being: yet the drawings are, for a school-girl, peculiar. As to the thoughts, they are elfish. These eyes in the Evening Star you must have seen in a dream. How could you make them look so clear, and yet not at all brilliant? for the planet above quells their rays. And what meaning is that in their solemn depth? And who taught you to paint wind? There is a high gale in that sky, and on this hill-top. Where did you see Latmos? For that is Latmos. There! put the drawings away
It is nine o'clock: what are you about, Miss Eyre, to let Adele sit up so long? Take her to bed
I wish you all good-night, now
You said Mr. Rochester was not strikingly peculiar, Mrs. Fairfax
Well, is he
I think so: he is very changeful and abrupt
True: no doubt he may appear so to a stranger, but I am so accustomed to his manner, I never think of it; and then, if he has peculiarities of temper, allowance should be made
Why
Partly because it is his nature -- and we can none of us help our nature; and partly because he has painful thoughts, no doubt, to harass him, and make his spirits unequal
What about
Family troubles, for one thing
But he has no family
Not now, but he has had -- or, at least, relatives. He lost his elder brother a few years since
His ELDER brother
Yes. The present Mr. Rochester has not been very long in possession of the property; only about nine years
Nine years is a tolerable time. Was he so very fond of his brother as to be still inconsolable for his loss
Why, no -- perhaps not. I believe there were some misunderstandings between them. Mr. Rowland Rochester was not quite just to Mr. Edward; and perhaps he prejudiced his father against him. The old gentleman was fond of money, and anxious to keep the family estate together. He did not like to diminish the property by division, and yet he was anxious that Mr. Edward should have wealth, too, to keep up the consequence of the name; and, soon after he was of age, some steps were taken that were not quite fair, and made a great deal of mischief. Old Mr. Rochester and Mr. Rowland combined to bring Mr. Edward into what he considered a painful position, for the sake of making his fortune: what the precise nature of that position was I never clearly knew, but his spirit could not brook what he had to suffer in it. He is not very forgiving: he broke with his family, and now for many years he has led an unsettled kind of life. I don't think he has ever been resident at Thornfield for a fortnight together, since the death of his brother without a will left him master of the estate; and, indeed, no wonder he shuns the old place
Why should he shun it
Perhaps he thinks it gloomy
Ma boite! ma boite
Yes, there is your 'boite' at last: take it into a corner, you genuine daughter of Paris, and amuse yourself with disembowelling it
And mind
don't bother me with any details of the anatomical process, or any notice of the condition of the entrails: let your operation be conducted in silence: tiens-toi tranquille, enfant; comprends-tu
Oh ciel! Que c'est beau
Is Miss Eyre there
Ah! well, come forward; be seated here
I am not fond of the prattle of children
for, old bachelor as I am, I have no pleasant associations connected with their lisp. It would be intolerable to me to pass a whole evening tete-e-tete with a brat. Don't draw that chair farther off, Miss Eyre; sit down exactly where I placed it -- if you please, that is. Confound these civilities! I continually forget them. Nor do I particularly affect simple-minded old ladies. By-the-bye, I must have mine in mind; it won't do to neglect her; she is a Fairfax, or wed to one; and blood is said to be thicker than water
Good evening, madam; I sent to you for a charitable purpose. I have forbidden Adele to talk to me about her presents, and she is bursting with repletion: have the goodness to serve her as auditress and interlocutrice; it will be one of the most benevolent acts you ever performed
boite
Now I have performed the part of a good host
put my guests into the way of amusing each other, I ought to be at liberty to attend to my own pleasure. Miss Eyre, draw your chair still a little farther forward: you are yet too far back; I cannot see you without disturbing my position in this comfortable chair, which I have no mind to do
You examine me, Miss Eyre
do you think me handsome
No, sir
Ah! By my word! there is something singular about you
you have the air of a little nonnette; quaint, quiet, grave, and simple, as you sit with your hands before you, and your eyes generally bent on the carpet (except, by-the-bye, when they are directed piercingly to my face; as just now, for instance); and when one asks you a question, or makes a remark to which you are obliged to reply, you rap out a round rejoinder, which, if not blunt, is at least brusque. What do you mean by it
Sir, I was too plain; I beg your pardon. I ought to have replied that it was not easy to give an impromptu answer to a question about appearances; that tastes mostly differ; and that beauty is of little consequence, or something of that sort
You ought to have replied no such thing. Beauty of little consequence, indeed! And so, under pretence of softening the previous outrage, of stroking and soothing me into placidity, you stick a sly penknife under my ear! Go on: what fault do you find with me, pray? I suppose I have all my limbs and all my features like any other man
Mr. Rochester, allow me to disown my first answer: I intended no pointed repartee: it was only a blunder
Just so: I think so: and you shall be answerable for it. Criticise me: does my forehead not please you
Now, ma'am, am I a fool
Far from it, sir. You would, perhaps, think me rude if I inquired in return whether you are a philanthropist
There again! Another stick of the penknife, when she pretended to pat my head: and that is because I said I did not like the society of children and old women (low be it spoken!). No, young lady, I am not a general philanthropist; but I bear a conscience
and, besides, I once had a kind of rude tenderness of heart. When I was as old as you, I was a feeling fellow enough, partial to the unfledged, unfostered, and unlucky; but Fortune has knocked me about since: she has even kneaded me with her knuckles, and now I flatter myself I am hard and tough as an India-rubber ball; pervious, though, through a chink or two still, and with one sentient point in the middle of the lump. Yes: does that leave hope for me
Hope of what, sir
Of my final re-transformation from India-rubber back to flesh
Decidedly he has had too much wine
You looked very much puzzled, Miss Eyre; and though you are not pretty any more than I am handsome, yet a puzzled air becomes you; besides, it is convenient, for it keeps those searching eyes of yours away from my physiognomy, and busies them with the worsted flowers of the rug; so puzzle on. Young lady, I am disposed to be gregarious and communicative to-night
I am disposed to be gregarious and communicative to-night
and that is why I sent for you: the fire and the chandelier were not sufficient company for me; nor would Pilot have been, for none of these can talk. Adele is a degree better, but still far below the mark; Mrs. Fairfax ditto; you, I am persuaded, can suit me if you will: you puzzled me the first evening I invited you down here. I have almost forgotten you since: other ideas have driven yours from my head; but to-night I am resolved to be at ease; to dismiss what importunes, and recall what pleases. It would please me now to draw you out -- to learn more of you -- therefore speak
Speak
What about, sir
Whatever you like. I leave both the choice of subject and the manner of treating it entirely to yourself
If he expects me to talk for the mere sake of talking and showing off, he will find he has addressed himself to the wrong person
You are dumb, Miss Eyre
Stubborn
I claim only such superiority as must result from twenty years' difference in age and a century's advance in experience. This is legitimate, et j'y tiens, as Adele would say; and it is by virtue of this superiority, and this alone, that I desire you to have the goodness to talk to me a little now, and divert my thoughts, which are galled with dwelling on one point -- cankering as a rusty nail
I am willing to amuse you, if I can, sir -- quite willing; but I cannot introduce a topic, because how do I know what will interest you? Ask me questions, and I will do my best to answer them
Then, in the first place, do you agree with me that I have a right to be a little masterful, abrupt, perhaps exacting, sometimes, on the grounds I stated, namely, that I am old enough to be your father, and that I have battled through a varied experience with many men of many nations, and roamed over half the globe, while you have lived quietly with one set of people in one house
Do as you please, sir
That is no answer; or rather it is a very irritating, because a very evasive one. Reply clearly
I don't think, sir, you have a right to command me, merely because you are older than I, or because you have seen more of the world than I have; your claim to superiority depends on the use you have made of your time and experience
Humph! Promptly spoken. But I won't allow that, seeing that it would never suit my case, as I have made an indifferent, not to say a bad, use of both advantages. Leaving superiority out of the question, then, you must still agree to receive my orders now and then, without being piqued or hurt by the tone of command. Will you
The smile is very well
but speak too
I was thinking, sir, that very few masters would trouble themselves to inquire whether or not their paid subordinates were piqued and hurt by their orders
Paid subordinates! What! you are my paid subordinate, are you? Oh yes, I had forgotten the salary! Well then, on that mercenary ground, will you agree to let me hector a little
No, sir, not on that ground; but, on the ground that you did forget it, and that you care whether or not a dependent is comfortable in his dependency, I agree heartily
And will you consent to dispense with a great many conventional forms and phrases, without thinking that the omission arises from insolence
I am sure, sir, I should never mistake informality for insolence: one I rather like, the other nothing free-born would submit to, even for a salary
Humbug! Most things free-born will submit to anything for a salary; therefore, keep to yourself, and don't venture on generalities of which you are intensely ignorant. However, I mentally shake hands with you for your answer, despite its inaccuracy; and as much for the manner in which it was said, as for the substance of the speech; the manner was frank and sincere; one does not often see such a manner: no, on the contrary, affectation, or coldness, or stupid, coarse-minded misapprehension of one's meaning are the usual rewards of candour. Not three in three thousand raw school-girl-governesses would have answered me as you have just done. But I don't mean to flatter you: if you are cast in a different mould to the majority, it is no merit of yours: Nature did it. And then, after all, I go too fast in my conclusions: for what I yet know, you may be no better than the rest; you may have intolerable defects to counterbalance your few good points
And so may you
Yes, yes, you are right
I have plenty of faults of my own: I know it, and I don't wish to palliate them, I assure you. God wot I need not be too severe about others; I have a past existence, a series of deeds, a colour of life to contemplate within my own breast, which might well call my sneers and censures from my neighbours to myself. I started, or rather (for like other defaulters, I like to lay half the blame on ill fortune and adverse circumstances) was thrust on to a wrong tack at the age of one-and- twenty, and have never recovered the right course since: but I might have been very different; I might have been as good as you -- wiser -- almost as stainless. I envy you your peace of mind, your clean conscience, your unpolluted memory. Little girl, a memory without blot or contamination must be an exquisite treasure -- an inexhaustible source of pure refreshment: is it not
How was your memory when you were eighteen, sir
All right then; limpid, salubrious: no gush of bilge water had turned it to fetid puddle. I was your equal at eighteen -- quite your equal. Nature meant me to be, on the whole, a good man, Miss Eyre; one of the better kind, and you see I am not so. You would say you don't see it; at least I flatter myself I read as much in your eye (beware, by-the-bye, what you express with that organ; I am quick at interpreting its language). Then take my word for it, -- I am not a villain: you are not to suppose that -- not to attribute to me any such bad eminence; but, owing, I verily believe, rather to circumstances than to my natural bent, I am a trite commonplace sinner, hackneyed in all the poor petty dissipations with which the rich and worthless try to put on life. Do you wonder that I avow this to you? Know, that in the course of your future life you will often find yourself elected the involuntary confidant of your acquaintances' secrets: people will instinctively find out, as I have done, that it is not your forte to tell of yourself, but to listen while others talk of themselves; they will feel, too, that you listen with no malevolent scorn of their indiscretion, but with a kind of innate sympathy; not the less comforting and encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its manifestations
How do you know? -- how can you guess all this, sir
I know it well; therefore I proceed almost as freely as if I were writing my thoughts in a diary. You would say, I should have been superior to circumstances; so I should -- so I should; but you see I was not. When fate wronged me, I had not the wisdom to remain cool: I turned desperate; then I degenerated. Now, when any vicious simpleton excites my disgust by his paltry ribaldry, I cannot flatter myself that I am better than he: I am forced to confess that he and I are on a level. I wish I had stood firm -- God knows I do! Dread remorse when you are tempted to err, Miss Eyre; remorse is the poison of life
Repentance is said to be its cure, sir
It is not its cure. Reformation may be its cure; and I could reform -- I have strength yet for that -- if -- but where is the use of thinking of it, hampered, burdened, cursed as I am? Besides, since happiness is irrevocably denied me, I have a right to get pleasure out of life: and I WILL get it, cost what it may
Then you will degenerate still more, sir
Possibly: yet why should I, if I can get sweet, fresh pleasure? And I may get it as sweet and fresh as the wild honey the bee gathers on the moor
It will sting -- it will taste bitter, sir
You have no right to preach to me, you neophyte, that have not passed the porch of life, and are absolutely unacquainted with its mysteries
I only remind you of your own words, sir: you said error brought remorse, and you pronounced remorse the poison of existence
And who talks of error now? I scarcely think the notion that flittered across my brain was an error. I believe it was an inspiration rather than a temptation: it was very genial, very soothing -- I know that. Here it comes again! It is no devil, I assure you; or if it be, it has put on the robes of an angel of light. I think I must admit so fair a guest when it asks entrance to my heart
Distrust it, sir; it is not a true angel
Once more, how do you know? By what instinct do you pretend to distinguish between a fallen seraph of the abyss and a messenger from the eternal throne -- between a guide and a seducer
I judged by your countenance, sir, which was troubled when you said the suggestion had returned upon you. I feel sure it will work you more misery if you listen to it
Not at all -- it bears the most gracious message in the world: for the rest, you are not my conscience-keeper, so don't make yourself uneasy. Here, come in, bonny wanderer
Now
I have received the pilgrim -- a disguised deity, as I verily believe. Already it has done me good: my heart was a sort of charnel; it will now be a shrine
To speak truth, sir, I don't understand you at all: I cannot keep up the conversation, because it has got out of my depth. Only one thing, I know: you said you were not as good as you should like to be, and that you regretted your own imperfection; -- one thing I can comprehend: you intimated that to have a sullied memory was a perpetual bane. It seems to me, that if you tried hard, you would in time find it possible to become what you yourself would approve; and that if from this day you began with resolution to correct your thoughts and actions, you would in a few years have laid up a new and stainless store of recollections, to which you might revert with pleasure
Justly thought; rightly said, Miss Eyre; and, at this moment, I am paving hell with energy
Sir
I am laying down good intentions, which I believe durable as flint. Certainly, my associates and pursuits shall be other than they have been
And better
And better -- so much better as pure ore is than foul dross. You seem to doubt me; I don't doubt myself: I know what my aim is, what my motives are; and at this moment I pass a law, unalterable as that of the Medes and Persians, that both are right
They cannot be, sir, if they require a new statute to legalise them
They are, Miss Eyre, though they absolutely require a new statute: unheard-of combinations of circumstances demand unheard-of rules
That sounds a dangerous maxim, sir; because one can see at once that it is liable to abuse
Sententious sage! so it is: but I swear by my household gods not to abuse it
You are human and fallible
I am: so are you -- what then
The human and fallible should not arrogate a power with which the divine and perfect alone can be safely intrusted
What power
That of saying of any strange, unsanctioned line of action, -- 'Let it be right
Let it be right' -- the very words: you have pronounced them
MAY it be right then
Where are you going
To put Adele to bed: it is past her bedtime
You are afraid of me, because I talk like a Sphynx
Your language is enigmatical, sir: but though I am bewildered, I am certainly not afraid
You ARE afraid -- your self-love dreads a blunder
In that sense I do feel apprehensive -- I have no wish to talk nonsense
If you did, it would be in such a grave, quiet manner, I should mistake it for sense. Do you never laugh, Miss Eyre? Don't trouble yourself to answer -- I see you laugh rarely; but you can laugh very merrily: believe me, you are not naturally austere, any more than I am naturally vicious. The Lowood constraint still clings to you somewhat; controlling your features, muffling your voice, and restricting your limbs; and you fear in the presence of a man and a brother -- or father, or master, or what you will -- to smile too gaily, speak too freely, or move too quickly: but, in time, I think you will learn to be natural with me, as I find it impossible to be conventional with you; and then your looks and movements will have more vivacity and variety than they dare offer now. I see at intervals the glance of a curious sort of bird through the close-set bars of a cage: a vivid, restless, resolute captive is there; were it but free, it would soar cloud-high. You are still bent on going
It has struck nine, sir
Never mind, -- wait a minute: Adele is not ready to go to bed yet. My position, Miss Eyre, with my back to the fire, and my face to the room, favours observation. While talking to you, I have also occasionally watched Adele (I have my own reasons for thinking her a curious study, -- reasons that I may, nay, that I shall, impart to you some day). She pulled out of her box, about ten minutes ago, a little pink silk frock; rapture lit her face as she unfolded it; coquetry runs in her blood, blends with her brains, and seasons the marrow of her bones. 'Il faut que je l'essaie!' cried she, 'et e l'instant meme!' and she rushed out of the room. She is now with Sophie, undergoing a robing process: in a few minutes she will re-enter; and I know what I shall see, -- a miniature of Celine Varens, as she used to appear on the boards at the rising of -- But never mind that. However, my tenderest feelings are about to receive a shock: such is my presentiment; stay now, to see whether it will be realised
Est-ce que ma robe va bien
et mes souliers? et mes bas? Tenez, je crois que je vais danser
Monsieur, je vous remercie mille fois de votre bonte
C'est comme cela que maman faisait, n'est-ce pas, monsieur
Pre-cise-ly
and, 'comme cela,' she charmed my English gold out of my British breeches' pocket. I have been green, too, Miss Eyre, -- ay, grass green: not a more vernal tint freshens you now than once freshened me. My Spring is gone, however, but it has left me that French floweret on my hands, which, in some moods, I would fain be rid of. Not valuing now the root whence it sprang; having found that it was of a sort which nothing but gold dust could manure, I have but half a liking to the blossom, especially when it looks so artificial as just now. I keep it and rear it rather on the Roman Catholic principle of expiating numerous sins, great or small, by one good work. I'll explain all this some day. Good-night
grande passion
And, Miss Eyre, so much was I flattered by this preference of the Gallic sylph for her British gnome, that I installed her in an hotel; gave her a complete establishment of servants, a carriage, cashmeres, diamonds, dentelles, &amp;c. In short, I began the process of ruining myself in the received style, like any other spoony. I had not, it seems, the originality to chalk out a new road to shame and destruction, but trode the old track with stupid exactness not to deviate an inch from the beaten centre. I had -- as I deserved to have -- the fate of all other spoonies. Happening to call one evening when Celine did not expect me, I found her out; but it was a warm night, and I was tired with strolling through Paris, so I sat down in her boudoir; happy to breathe the air consecrated so lately by her presence. No, -- I exaggerate; I never thought there was any consecrating virtue about her: it was rather a sort of pastille perfume she had left; a scent of musk and amber, than an odour of sanctity. I was just beginning to stifle with the fumes of conservatory flowers and sprinkled essences, when I bethought myself to open the window and step out on to the balcony. It was moonlight and gaslight besides, and very still and serene. The balcony was furnished with a chair or two; I sat down, and took out a cigar, -- I will take one now, if you will excuse me
I liked bonbons too in those days, Miss Eyre, and I was croquant -- (overlook the barbarism) -- croquant chocolate comfits, and smoking alternately, watching meantime the equipages that rolled along the fashionable streets towards the neighbouring opera-house, when in an elegant close carriage drawn by a beautiful pair of English horses, and distinctly seen in the brilliant city-night, I recognised the 'voiture' I had given Celine. She was returning: of course my heart thumped with impatience against the iron rails I leant upon. The carriage stopped, as I had expected, at the hotel door; my flame (that is the very word for an opera inamorata) alighted: though muffed in a cloak -- an unnecessary encumbrance, by-the-bye, on so warm a June evening -- I knew her instantly by her little foot, seen peeping from the skirt of her dress, as she skipped from the carriage-step. Bending over the balcony, I was about to murmur 'Mon ange' -- in a tone, of course, which should be audible to the ear of love alone -- when a figure jumped from the carriage after her; cloaked also; but that was a spurred heel which had rung on the pavement, and that was a hatted head which now passed under the arched porte cochere of the hotel. "You never felt jealousy, did you, Miss Eyre? Of course not: I need not ask you; because you never felt love. You have both sentiments yet to experience: your soul sleeps; the shock is yet to be given which shall waken it. You think all existence lapses in as quiet a flow as that in which your youth has hitherto slid away. Floating on with closed eyes and muffled ears, you neither see the rocks bristling not far off in the bed of the flood, nor hear the breakers boil at their base. But I tell you -- and you may mark my words -- you will come some day to a craggy pass in the channel, where the whole of life's stream will be broken up into whirl and tumult, foam and noise: either you will be dashed to atoms on crag points, or lifted up and borne on by some master-wave into a calmer current -- as I am now. 

"I like this day; I like that sky of steel; I like the sternness and stillness of the world under this frost. I like Thornfield, its antiquity, its retirement, its old crow-trees and thorn-trees, its grey facade, and lines of dark windows reflecting that metal welkin: and yet how long have I abhorred the very thought of it, shunned it like a great plague-house? How I do still abhor
I will keep my word; I will break obstacles to happiness, to goodness -- yes, goodness. I wish to be a better man than I have been, than I am; as Job's leviathan broke the spear, the dart, and the habergeon, hindrances which others count as iron and brass, I will esteem but straw and rotten wood
Away
keep at a distance, child; or go in to Sophie
Did you leave the balcony, sir
when Mdlle. Varens entered
Oh, I had forgotten Celine! Well, to resume. When I saw my charmer thus come in accompanied by a cavalier, I seemed to hear a hiss, and the green snake of jealousy, rising on undulating coils from the moonlit balcony, glided within my waistcoat, and ate its way in two minutes to my heart's core. Strange
Strange that I should choose you for the confidant of all this, young lady; passing strange that you should listen to me quietly, as if it were the most usual thing in the world for a man like me to tell stories of his opera-mistresses to a quaint, inexperienced girl like you! But the last singularity explains the first, as I intimated once before: you, with your gravity, considerateness, and caution were made to be the recipient of secrets. Besides, I know what sort of a mind I have placed in communication with my own: I know it is one not liable to take infection: it is a peculiar mind: it is a unique one. Happily I do not mean to harm it: but, if I did, it would not take harm from me. The more you and I converse, the better; for while I cannot blight you, you may refresh me
Monsieur, John has just been to say that your agent has called and wishes to see you
Ah! in that case I must abridge. Opening the window, I walked in upon them; liberated Celine from my protection; gave her notice to vacate her hotel; offered her a purse for immediate exigencies; disregarded screams, hysterics, prayers, protestations, convulsions; made an appointment with the vicomte for a meeting at the Bois de Boulogne. Next morning I had the pleasure of encountering him; left a bullet in one of his poor etiolated arms, feeble as the wing of a chicken in the pip, and then thought I had done with the whole crew. But unluckily the Varens, six months before, had given me this filette Adele, who, she affirmed, was my daughter; and perhaps she may be, though I see no proofs of such grim paternity written in her countenance: Pilot is more like me than she. Some years after I had broken with the mother, she abandoned her child, and ran away to Italy with a musician or singer. I acknowledged no natural claim on Adele's part to be supported by me, nor do I now acknowledge any, for I am not her father; but hearing that she was quite destitute, I e'en took the poor thing out of the slime and mud of Paris, and transplanted it here, to grow up clean in the wholesome soil of an English country garden. Mrs. Fairfax found you to train it; but now you know that it is the illegitimate offspring of a French opera- girl, you will perhaps think differently of your post and protegee: you will be coming to me some day with notice that you have found another place -- that you beg me to look out for a new governess, &amp;c. -- Eh
No: Adele is not answerable for either her mother's faults or yours: I have a regard for her; and now that I know she is, in a sense, parentless -- forsaken by her mother and disowned by you, sir -- I shall cling closer to her than before. How could I possibly prefer the spoilt pet of a wealthy family, who would hate her governess as a nuisance, to a lonely little orphan, who leans towards her as a friend
Oh, that is the light in which you view it! Well, I must go in now; and you too: it darkens
Why not
What alienates him from the house? Will he leave it again soon? Mrs. Fairfax said he seldom stayed here longer than a fortnight at a time; and he has now been resident eight weeks. If he does go, the change will be doleful. Suppose he should be absent spring, summer, and autumn: how joyless sunshine and fine days will seem
Who is there
Who is there
Was that Grace Poole? and is she possessed with a devil
Wake! wake
Is there a flood
No, sir
but there has been a fire: get up, do; you are quenched now; I will fetch you a candle
In the name of all the elves in Christendom, is that Jane Eyre
What have you done with me, witch, sorceress? Who is in the room besides you? Have you plotted to drown me
I will fetch you a candle, sir; and, in Heaven's name, get up. Somebody has plotted something: you cannot too soon find out who and what it is
There! I am up now; but at your peril you fetch a candle yet: wait two minutes till I get into some dry garments, if any dry there be -- yes, here is my dressing-gown. Now run
What is it? and who did it
Shall I call Mrs. Fairfax
Mrs. Fairfax? No; what the deuce would you call her for? What can she do? Let her sleep unmolested
Then I will fetch Leah, and wake John and his wife
Not at all: just be still. You have a shawl on. If you are not warm enough, you may take my cloak yonder; wrap it about you, and sit down in the arm-chair: there, -- I will put it on. Now place your feet on the stool, to keep them out of the wet. I am going to leave you a few minutes. I shall take the candle. Remain where you are till I return; be as still as a mouse. I must pay a visit to the second storey. Don't move, remember, or call any one
I hope it is he
and not something worse
I have found it all out
it is as I thought
How, sir
I forget whether you said you saw anything when you opened your chamber door
No, sir, only the candlestick on the ground
But you heard an odd laugh? You have heard that laugh before, I should think, or something like it
Yes, sir: there is a woman who sews here, called Grace Poole, -- she laughs in that way. She is a singular person
and now return to your own room. I shall do very well on the sofa in the library for the rest of the night. It is near four:- in two hours the servants will be up
Good-night, then, sir
What
are you quitting me already, and in that way
You said I might go, sir
But not without taking leave; not without a word or two of acknowledgment and good-will: not, in short, in that brief, dry fashion. Why, you have saved my life! -- snatched me from a horrible and excruciating death! and you walk past me as if we were mutual strangers! At least shake hands
You have saved my life: I have a pleasure in owing you so immense a debt. I cannot say more. Nothing else that has being would have been tolerable to me in the character of creditor for such an obligation: but you: it is different; -- I feel your benefits no burden, Jane
Good-night again, sir. There is no debt, benefit, burden, obligation, in the case
I knew
you would do me good in some way, at some time; -- I saw it in your eyes when I first beheld you: their expression and smile did not
strike delight to my very inmost heart so for nothing. People talk of natural sympathies; I have heard of good genii: there are grains of truth in the wildest fable. My cherished preserver, goodnight
I am glad I happened to be awake
What! you WILL go
I am cold, sir
Cold? Yes, -- and standing in a pool! Go, then, Jane; go
I think I hear Mrs. Fairfax move, sir
Well, leave me
What a mercy master was not burnt in his bed
It is always dangerous to keep a candle lit at night
How providential that he had presence of mind to think of the water-jug
I wonder he waked nobody
It is to be hoped he will not take cold with sleeping on the library sofa
Good morning, Miss
I will put her to some test
such absolute impenetrability is past comprehension
Good morning, Grace
Has anything happened here? I thought I heard the servants all talking together a while ago
Only master had been reading in his bed last night; he fell asleep with his candle lit, and the curtains got on fire; but, fortunately, he awoke before the bed-clothes or the wood-work caught, and contrived to quench the flames with the water in the ewer
A strange affair
Did Mr. Rochester wake nobody? Did no one hear him move
The servants sleep so far off, you know, Miss, they would not be likely to hear. Mrs. Fairfax's room and yours are the nearest to master's; but Mrs. Fairfax said she heard nothing: when people get elderly, they often sleep heavy
But you are young, Miss; and I should say a light sleeper: perhaps you may have heard a noise
I did
and at first I thought it was Pilot: but Pilot cannot laugh; and I am certain I heard a laugh, and a strange one
It is hardly likely master would laugh, I should think, Miss, when he was in such danger: You must have been dreaming
I was not dreaming
Have you told master that you heard a laugh
I have not had the opportunity of speaking to him this morning
You did not think of opening your door and looking out into the gallery
On the contrary
I bolted my door
Then you are not in the habit of bolting your door every night before you get into bed
Fiend! she wants to know my habits, that she may lay her plans accordingly
I shall take good care to make all secure before I venture to lie down
It will be wise so to do
this neighbourhood is as quiet as any I know, and I never heard of the hall being attempted by robbers since it was a house; though there are hundreds of pounds' worth of plate in the plate-closet, as is well known. And you see, for such a large house, there are very few servants, because master has never lived here much; and when he does come, being a bachelor, he needs little waiting on: but I always think it best to err on the safe side; a door is soon fastened, and it is as well to have a drawn bolt between one and any mischief that may be about. A deal of people, Miss, are for trusting all to Providence; but I say Providence will not dispense with the means, though He often blesses them when they are used discreetly
Mrs. Poole
the servants' dinner will soon be ready: will you come down
No; just put my pint of porter and bit of pudding on a tray, and I'll carry it upstairs
You'll have some meat
Just a morsel, and a taste of cheese, that's all
And the sago
Never mind it at present: I shall be coming down before teatime: I'll make it myself
Yet
she has been young once; her youth would be contemporary with her master's: Mrs. Fairfax told me once, she had lived here many years. I don't think she can ever have been pretty; but, for aught I know, she may possess originality and strength of character to compensate for the want of personal advantages. Mr. Rochester is an amateur of the decided and eccentric: Grace is eccentric at least. What if a former caprice (a freak very possible to a nature so sudden and headstrong as his) has delivered him into her power, and she now exercises over his actions a secret influence, the result of his own indiscretion, which he cannot shake off, and dare not disregard
No; impossible! my supposition cannot be correct. Yet
you are not beautiful either, and perhaps Mr. Rochester approves you: at any rate, you have often felt as if he did; and last night -- remember his words; remember his look; remember his voice
Qu' avez-vous, mademoiselle
Vos doigts tremblent comme la feuille, et vos joues sont rouges: mais, rouges comme des cerises
I am hot, Adele, with stooping
Evening approaches
I have never heard Mr. Rochester's voice or step in the house to-day; but surely I shall see him before night: I feared the meeting in the morning; now I desire it, because expectation has been so long baffled that it is grown impatient
You must want your tea
you ate so little at dinner. I am afraid
you are not well to-day: you look flushed and feverish
Oh, quite well! I never felt better
Then you must prove it by evincing a good appetite; will you fill the teapot while I knit off this needle
It is fair to-night
though not starlight; Mr. Rochester has, on the whole, had a favourable day for his journey
Journey! -- Is Mr. Rochester gone anywhere? I did not know he was out
Oh, he set off the moment he had breakfasted! He is gone to the Leas, Mr. Eshton's place, ten miles on the other side Millcote. I believe there is quite a party assembled there; Lord Ingram, Sir George Lynn, Colonel Dent, and others
Do you expect him back to-night
No -- nor to-morrow either; I should think he is very likely to stay a week or more: when these fine, fashionable people get together, they are so surrounded by elegance and gaiety, so well provided with all that can please and entertain, they are in no hurry to separate. Gentlemen especially are often in request on such occasions; and Mr. Rochester is so talented and so lively in society, that I believe he is a general favourite: the ladies are very fond of him; though you would not think his appearance calculated to recommend him particularly in their eyes: but I suppose his acquirements and abilities, perhaps his wealth and good blood, make amends for any little fault of look
Are there ladies at the Leas
There are Mrs. Eshton and her three daughters -- very elegant young ladies indeed; and there are the Honourable Blanche and Mary Ingram, most beautiful women, I suppose: indeed I have seen Blanche, six or seven years since, when she was a girl of eighteen. She came here to a Christmas ball and party Mr. Rochester gave. You should have seen the dining-room that day -- how richly it was decorated, how brilliantly lit up! I should think there were fifty ladies and gentlemen present -- all of the first county families; and Miss Ingram was considered the belle of the evening
You saw her, you say, Mrs. Fairfax: what was she like
Yes, I saw her. The dining-room doors were thrown open; and, as it was Christmas-time, the servants were allowed to assemble in the hall, to hear some of the ladies sing and play. Mr. Rochester would have me to come in, and I sat down in a quiet corner and watched them. I never saw a more splendid scene: the ladies were magnificently dressed; most of them -- at least most of the younger ones -- looked handsome; but Miss Ingram was certainly the queen
And what was she like
Tall, fine bust, sloping shoulders; long, graceful neck: olive complexion, dark and clear; noble features; eyes rather like Mr. Rochester's: large and black, and as brilliant as her jewels. And then she had such a fine head of hair; raven-black and so becomingly arranged: a crown of thick plaits behind, and in front the longest, the glossiest curls I ever saw. She was dressed in pure white; an amber-coloured scarf was passed over her shoulder and across her breast, tied at the side, and descending in long, fringed ends below her knee. She wore an amber-coloured flower, too, in her hair: it contrasted well with the jetty mass of her curls
She was greatly admired, of course
Yes, indeed: and not only for her beauty, but for her accomplishments. She was one of the ladies who sang: a gentleman accompanied her on the piano. She and Mr. Rochester sang a duet
Mr. Rochester? I was not aware he could sing
Oh! he has a fine bass voice, and an excellent taste for music
And Miss Ingram: what sort of a voice had she
A very rich and powerful one: she sang delightfully; it was a treat to listen to her; -- and she played afterwards. I am no judge of music, but Mr. Rochester is; and I heard him say her execution was remarkably good
And this beautiful and accomplished lady, she is not yet married
It appears not: I fancy neither she nor her sister have very large fortunes. Old Lord Ingram's estates were chiefly entailed, and the eldest son came in for everything almost
But I wonder no wealthy nobleman or gentleman has taken a fancy to her: Mr. Rochester, for instance. He is rich, is he not
Oh! yes. But you see there is a considerable difference in age: Mr. Rochester is nearly forty; she is but twenty-five
What of that? More unequal matches are made every day
True: yet I should scarcely fancy Mr. Rochester would entertain an idea of the sort. But you eat nothing: you have scarcely tasted since you began tea
No: I am too thirsty to eat. Will you let me have another cup
YOU
Listen, then, Jane Eyre, to your sentence: tomorrow, place the glass before you, and draw in chalk your own picture, faithfully, without softening one defect; omit no harsh line, smooth away no displeasing irregularity; write under it, 'Portrait of a Governess, disconnected, poor, and plain.' "Afterwards, take a piece of smooth ivory -- you have one prepared in your drawing-box: take your palette, mix your freshest, finest, clearest tints; choose your most delicate camel-hair pencils; delineate carefully the loveliest face you can imagine; paint it in your softest shades and sweetest lines, according to the description given by Mrs. Fairfax of Blanche Ingram; remember the raven ringlets, the oriental eye; -- What! you revert to Mr. Rochester as a model! Order! No snivel! -- no sentiment! -- no regret! I will endure only sense and resolution. Recall the august yet harmonious lineaments, the Grecian neck and bust; let the round and dazzling arm be visible, and the delicate hand; omit neither diamond ring nor gold bracelet; portray faithfully the attire, aerial lace and glistening satin, graceful scarf and golden rose; call it 'Blanche, an accomplished lady of rank.' 

"Whenever, in future, you should chance to fancy Mr. Rochester thinks well of you, take out these two pictures and compare them: say, 'Mr. Rochester might probably win that noble lady's love, if he chose to strive for it; is it likely he would waste a serious thought on this indigent and insignificant plebeian
I'll do it
You have nothing to do with the master of Thornfield, further than to receive the salary he gives you for teaching his protegee, and to be grateful for such respectful and kind treatment as, if you do your duty, you have a right to expect at his hands. Be sure that is the only tie he seriously acknowledges between you and him; so don't make him the object of your fine feelings, your raptures, agonies, and so forth. He is not of your order: keep to your caste, and be too self-respecting to lavish the love of the whole heart, soul, and strength, where such a gift is not wanted and would be despised
It is from the master
Now I suppose we shall know whether we are to expect his return or not
Well, I sometimes think we are too quiet; but we run a chance of being busy enough now: for a little while at least
Mr. Rochester is not likely to return soon, I suppose
Indeed he is -- in three days, he says: that will be next Thursday; and not alone either. I don't know how many of the fine people at the Leas are coming with him: he sends directions for all the best bedrooms to be prepared; and the library and drawing-rooms are to be cleaned out; I am to get more kitchen hands from the George Inn, at Millcote, and from wherever else I can; and the ladies will bring their maids and the gentlemen their valets: so we shall have a full house of it
toilettes
passees
She gets good wages, I guess
Yes
I wish I had as good; not that mine are to complain of, -- there's no stinginess at Thornfield; but they're not one fifth of the sum Mrs. Poole receives. And she is laying by: she goes every quarter to the bank at Millcote. I should not wonder but she has saved enough to keep her independent if she liked to leave; but I suppose she's got used to the place; and then she's not forty yet, and strong and able for anything. It is too soon for her to give up business
She is a good hand, I daresay
Ah! -- she understands what she has to do, -- nobody better
and it is not every one could fill her shoes -- not for all the money she gets
That it is not
Doesn't she know
a very pleasant refuge in time of trouble
It gets late
I am glad I ordered dinner an hour after the time Mr. Rochester mentioned; for it is past six now. I have sent John down to the gates to see if there is anything on the road: one can see a long way from thence in the direction of Millcote
Here he is
any news
They're coming, ma'am
They'll be here in ten minutes
Miss Ingram
Elles changent de toilettes
Chez maman
quand il y avait du monde, je le suivais partout, au salon et e leurs chambres; souvent je regardais les femmes de chambre coiffer et habiller les dames, et c'etait si amusant: comme cela on apprend
Don't you feel hungry, Adele
Mais oui, mademoiselle: voile cinq ou six heures que nous n'avons pas mange
Well now, while the ladies are in their rooms, I will venture down and get you something to eat
What beautiful ladies
Oh, I wish I might go to them! Do you think Mr. Rochester will send for us by-and-bye, after dinner
No, indeed, I don't; Mr. Rochester has something else to think about. Never mind the ladies to-night; perhaps you will see them to-morrow: here is your dinner
et alors quel dommage
You said it was not likely they should think of being married
but you see Mr. Rochester evidently prefers her to any of the other ladies
Yes, I daresay: no doubt he admires her
And she him
look how she leans her head towards him as if she were conversing confidentially; I wish I could see her face; I have never had a glimpse of it yet
You will see her this evening
I happened to remark to Mr. Rochester how much Adele wished to be introduced to the ladies, and he said: 'Oh! let her come into the drawing-room after dinner; and request Miss Eyre to accompany her
Yes; he said that from mere politeness: I need not go, I am sure
Well, I observed to him that as you were unused to company, I did not think you would like appearing before so gay a party -- all strangers; and he replied, in his quick way -- 'Nonsense! If she objects, tell her it is my particular wish; and if she resists, say I shall come and fetch her in case of contumacy
I will not give him that trouble
I will go, if no better may be; but I don't like it. Shall you be there, Mrs. Fairfax
No; I pleaded off, and he admitted my plea. I'll tell you how to manage so as to avoid the embarrassment of making a formal entrance, which is the most disagreeable part of the business. You must go into the drawing-room while it is empty, before the ladies leave the dinner-table; choose your seat in any quiet nook you like; you need not stay long after the gentlemen come in, unless you please: just let Mr. Rochester see you are there and then slip away -- nobody will notice you
Will these people remain long, do you think
Perhaps two or three weeks, certainly not more. After the Easter recess, Sir George Lynn, who was lately elected member for Millcote, will have to go up to town and take his seat; I daresay Mr. Rochester will accompany him: it surprises me that he has already made so protracted a stay at Thornfield
What is it, Adele
Est-ce que je ne puis pas prendrie une seule de ces fleurs magnifiques, mademoiselle? Seulement pour completer ma toilette
You think too much of your 'toilette,' Adele: but you may have a flower
especially wild ones
Bon jour, mesdames
Oh, what a little puppet
It is Mr. Rochester's ward, I suppose -- the little French girl he was speaking of
What a love of a child
pere noble de theatre
beauty is in the eye of the gazer
He is not to them what he is to me
he is not of their kind. I believe he is of mine; -- I am sure he is -- I feel akin to him -- I understand the language of his countenance and movements: though rank and wealth sever us widely, I have something in my brain and heart, in my blood and nerves, that assimilates me mentally to him. Did I say, a few days since, that I had nothing to do with him but to receive my salary at his hands? Did I forbid myself to think of him in any other light than as a paymaster? Blasphemy against nature! Every good, true, vigorous feeling I have gathers impulsively round him. I know I must conceal my sentiments: I must smother hope; I must remember that he cannot care much for me. For when I say that I am of his kind, I do not mean that I have his force to influence, and his spell to attract; I mean only that I have certain tastes and feelings in common with him. I must, then, repeat continually that we are for ever sundered:- and yet, while I breathe and think, I must love him
Mr. Rochester, I thought you were not fond of children
Nor am I
Then, what induced you to take charge of such a little doll as that
Where did you pick her up
I did not pick her up; she was left on my hands
You should have sent her to school
I could not afford it: schools are so dear
Why, I suppose you have a governess for her: I saw a person with her just now -- is she gone? Oh, no! there she is still, behind the window-curtain. You pay her, of course; I should think it quite as expensive, -- more so; for you have them both to keep in addition
I have not considered the subject
No, you men never do consider economy and common sense. You should hear mama on the chapter of governesses: Mary and I have had, I should think, a dozen at least in our day; half of them detestable and the rest ridiculous, and all incubi -- were they not, mama
Did you speak, my own
My dearest, don't mention governesses; the word makes me nervous. I have suffered a martyrdom from their incompetency and caprice. I thank Heaven I have now done with them
Tant pis
I hope it may do her good
I noticed her; I am a judge of physiognomy, and in hers I see all the faults of her class
What are they, madam
I will tell you in your private ear
But my curiosity will be past its appetite; it craves food now
Ask Blanche; she is nearer you than I
Oh, don't refer him to me, mama! I have just one word to say of the whole tribe; they are a nuisance. Not that I ever suffered much from them; I took care to turn the tables. What tricks Theodore and I used to play on our Miss Wilsons, and Mrs. Greys, and Madame Jouberts! Mary was always too sleepy to join in a plot with spirit. The best fun was with Madame Joubert: Miss Wilson was a poor sickly thing, lachrymose and low-spirited, not worth the trouble of vanquishing, in short; and Mrs. Grey was coarse and insensible; no blow took effect on her. But poor Madame Joubert! I see her yet in her raging passions, when we had driven her to extremities -- spilt our tea, crumbled our bread and butter, tossed our books up to the ceiling, and played a charivari with the ruler and desk, the fender and fire-irons. Theodore, do you remember those merry days
Yaas, to be sure I do
and the poor old stick used to cry out 'Oh you villains childs!' -- and then we sermonised her on the presumption of attempting to teach such clever blades as we were, when she was herself so ignorant
We did; and, Tedo, you know, I helped you in prosecuting (or persecuting) your tutor, whey-faced Mr. Vining -- the parson in the pip, as we used to call him. He and Miss Wilson took the liberty of falling in love with each other -- at least Tedo and I thought so; we surprised sundry tender glances and sighs which we interpreted as tokens of 'la belle passion,' and I promise you the public soon had the benefit of our discovery; we employed it as a sort of lever to hoist our dead-weights from the house. Dear mama, there, as soon as she got an inkling of the business, found out that it was of an immoral tendency. Did you not, my lady-mother
Oh, gracious, mama! Spare us the enumeration! Au reste, we all know them: danger of bad example to innocence of childhood; distractions and consequent neglect of duty on the part of the attached -- mutual alliance and reliance; confidence thence resulting -- insolence accompanying -- mutiny and general blow-up. Am I right, Baroness Ingram, of Ingram Park
My lily-flower, you are right now, as always
Then no more need be said: change the subject
Louisa and I used to quiz our governess too; but she was such a good creature, she would bear anything: nothing put her out. She was never cross with us; was she, Louisa
No, never: we might do what we pleased; ransack her desk and her workbox, and turn her drawers inside out; and she was so good- natured, she would give us anything we asked for
I suppose, now
we shall have an abstract of the memoirs of all the governesses extant: in order to avert such a visitation, I again move the introduction of a new topic. Mr. Rochester, do you second my motion
Madam, I support you on this point, as on every other
Then on me be the onus of bringing it forward. Signior Eduardo, are you in voice to-night
Donna Bianca, if you command it, I will be
Then, signior, I lay on you my sovereign behest to furbish up your lungs and other vocal organs, as they will be wanted on my royal service
Who would not be the Rizzio of so divine a Mary
A fig for Rizzio
It is my opinion the fiddler David must have been an insipid sort of fellow; I like black Bothwell better: to my mind a man is nothing without a spice of the devil in him; and history may say what it will of James Hepburn, but I have a notion, he was just the sort of wild, fierce, bandit hero whom I could have consented to gift with my hand
Gentlemen, you hear! Now which of you most resembles Bothwell
I should say the preference lies with you
On my honour, I am much obliged to you
Oh, I am so sick of the young men of the present day
Poor, puny things, not fit to stir a step beyond papa's park gates: nor to go even so far without mama's permission and guardianship! Creatures so absorbed in care about their pretty faces, and their white hands, and their small feet; as if a man had anything to do with beauty! As if loveliness were not the special prerogative of woman -- her legitimate appanage and heritage! I grant an ugly WOMAN is a blot on the fair face of creation; but as to the GENTLEMEN, let them be solicitous to possess only strength and valour: let their motto be:- Hunt, shoot, and fight: the rest is not worth a fillip. Such should be my device, were I a man
Whenever I marry
I am resolved my husband shall not be a rival, but a foil to me. I will suffer no competitor near the throne; I shall exact an undivided homage: his devotions shall not be shared between me and the shape he sees in his mirror. Mr. Rochester, now sing, and I will play for you
I am all obedience
Here then is a Corsair-song. Know that I doat on Corsairs; and for that reason, sing it con spirito
Commands from Miss Ingram's lips would put spirit into a mug of milk and water
Take care, then: if you don't please me, I will shame you by showing how such things SHOULD be done
That is offering a premium on incapacity: I shall now endeavour to fail
Gardez-vous en bien! If you err wilfully, I shall devise a proportionate punishment
Miss Ingram ought to be clement, for she has it in her power to inflict a chastisement beyond mortal endurance
Ha! explain
Pardon me, madam: no need of explanation; your own fine sense must inform you that one of your frowns would be a sufficient substitute for capital punishment
Sing
Now is my time to slip away
How do you do
I am very well, sir
Why did you not come and speak to me in the room
I did not wish to disturb you, as you seemed engaged, sir
What have you been doing during my absence
Nothing particular; teaching Adele as usual
And getting a good deal paler than you were -- as I saw at first sight. What is the matter
Nothing at all, sir
Did you take any cold that night you half drowned me
Not the least
Return to the drawing-room: you are deserting too early
I am tired, sir
And a little depressed
What about? Tell me
Nothing -- nothing, sir. I am not depressed
playing charades
Miss Ingram is mine, of course
Will you play
No
she looks too stupid for any game of the sort
Bride
She hasted, let down her pitcher on her hand, and gave him to drink
the tableau of the whole
Bridewell
Do you know
that, of the three characters, I liked you in the last best? Oh, had you but lived a few years earlier, what a gallant gentleman-highwayman you would have made
Is all the soot washed from my face
Alas! yes: the more's the pity! Nothing could be more becoming to your complexion than that ruffian's rouge
You would like a hero of the road then
An English hero of the road would be the next best thing to an Italian bandit; and that could only be surpassed by a Levantine pirate
Well, whatever I am, remember you are my wife; we were married an hour since, in the presence of all these witnesses
Now, Dent
it is your turn
Why can she not influence him more, when she is privileged to draw so near to him
Surely she cannot truly like him, or not like him with true affection! If she did, she need not coin her smiles so lavishly, flash her glances so unremittingly, manufacture airs so elaborate, graces so multitudinous. It seems to me that she might, by merely sitting quietly at his side, saying little and looking less, get nigher his heart. I have seen in his face a far different expression from that which hardens it now while she is so vivaciously accosting him; but then it came of itself: it was not elicited by meretricious arts and calculated manoeuvres; and one had but to accept it -- to answer what he asked without pretension, to address him when needful without grimace -- and it increased and grew kinder and more genial, and warmed one like a fostering sunbeam. How will she manage to please him when they are married? I do not think she will manage it; and yet it might be managed; and his wife might, I verily believe, be the very happiest woman the sun shines on
Voile, Monsieur Rochester, qui revient
What can possess him to come home in that style
He rode Mesrour (the black horse), did he not, when he went out? and Pilot was with him:- what has he done with the animals
How provoking
you tiresome monkey
who perched you up in the window to give false intelligence
It appears I come at an inopportune time, madam
when my friend, Mr. Rochester, is from home; but I arrive from a very long journey, and I think I may presume so far on old and intimate acquaintance as to instal myself here till he returns
extremes meet
a beautiful man
a love of a creature
adored him
pretty little mouth, and nice nose
And what a sweet-tempered forehead he has
so smooth -- none of those frowning irregularities I dislike so much; and such a placid eye and smile
old woman
quite troublesome
Tell her she shall be put in the stocks if she does not take herself off
No -- stop
Don't send her away, Eshton; we might turn the thing to account; better consult the ladies
Ladies, you talked of going to Hay Common to visit the gipsy camp; Sam here says that one of the old Mother Bunches is in the servants' hall at this moment, and insists upon being brought in before 'the quality,' to tell them their fortunes. Would you like to see her
Surely, colonel
you would not encourage such a low impostor? Dismiss her, by all means, at once
But I cannot persuade her to go away, my lady
nor can any of the servants: Mrs. Fairfax is with her just now, entreating her to be gone; but she has taken a chair in the chimney- comer, and says nothing shall stir her from it till she gets leave to come in here
What does she want
To tell the gentry their fortunes,' she says, ma'am; and she swears she must and will do it
What is she like
A shockingly ugly old creature, miss; almost as black as a crock
Why, she's a real sorceress
Let us have her in, of course
To be sure
it would be a thousand pities to throw away such a chance of fun
My dear boys, what are you thinking about
I cannot possibly countenance any such inconsistent proceeding
Indeed, mama, but you can -- and will
I have a curiosity to hear my fortune told: therefore, Sam, order the beldame forward
I do -- I recollect all you can suggest; and I must have my will -- quick, Sam
Yes -- yes -- yes
Let her come -- it will be excellent sport
She looks such a rough one
Go
She won't come now
She says it's not her mission to appear before the 'vulgar herd' (them's her words). I must show her into a room by herself, and then those who wish to consult her must go to her one by one
You see now, my queenly Blanche
Show her into the library, of course
angel girl
It is not my mission to listen to her before the vulgar herd either: I mean to have her all to myself. Is there a fire in the library
Yes, ma'am -- but she looks such a tinkler
Cease that chatter, blockhead! and do my bidding
She's ready now
She wishes to know who will be her first visitor
I think I had better just look in upon her before any of the ladies go
Tell her, Sam, a gentleman is coming
She says, sir, that she'll have no gentlemen; they need not trouble themselves to come near her; nor
any ladies either, except the young, and single
By Jove, she has taste
I go first
Oh, my best! oh, my dearest! pause -- reflect
Well, Blanche
What did she say, sister
What did you think? How do you feel? -- Is she a real fortune-teller
Now, now, good people
don't press upon me. Really your organs of wonder and credulity are easily excited: you seem, by the importance of you all -- my good mama included -- ascribe to this matter, absolutely to believe we have a genuine witch in the house, who is in close alliance with the old gentleman. I have seen a gipsy vagabond; she has practised in hackneyed fashion the science of palmistry and told me what such people usually tell. My whim is gratified; and now I think Mr. Eshton will do well to put the hag in the stocks to-morrow morning, as he threatened
I am sure she is something not right
She told us such things! She knows all about us
If you please, miss, the gipsy declares that there is another young single lady in the room who has not been to her yet, and she swears she will not go till she has seen all. I thought it must be you: there is no one else for it. What shall I tell her
Oh, I will go by all means
If you like, miss
I'll wait in the hall for you; and if she frightens you, just call and I'll come in
No, Sam, return to the kitchen: I am not in the least afraid
Well, and you want your fortune told
I don't care about it, mother; you may please yourself: but I ought to warn you, I have no faith
It's like your impudence to say so: I expected it of you; I heard it in your step as you crossed the threshold
Did you? You've a quick ear
I have; and a quick eye and a quick brain
You need them all in your trade
I do; especially when I've customers like you to deal with. Why don't you tremble
I'm not cold
Why don't you turn pale
I am not sick
Why don't you consult my art
I'm not silly
You are cold; you are sick; and you are silly
Prove it
I will, in few words. You are cold, because you are alone: no contact strikes the fire from you that is in you. You are sick; because the best of feelings, the highest and the sweetest given to man, keeps far away from you. You are silly, because, suffer as you may, you will not beckon it to approach, nor will you stir one step to meet it where it waits you
You might say all that to almost any one who you knew lived as a solitary dependent in a great house
I might say it to almost any one: but would it be true of almost any one
In my circumstances
Yes; just so, in YOUR circumstances: but find me another precisely placed as you are
It would be easy to find you thousands
You could scarcely find me one. If you knew it, you are peculiarly situated: very near happiness; yes, within reach of it. The materials are all prepared; there only wants a movement to combine them. Chance laid them somewhat apart; let them be once approached and bliss results
I don't understand enigmas. I never could guess a riddle in my life
If you wish me to speak more plainly, show me your palm
And I must cross it with silver, I suppose
To be sure
It is too fine
I can make nothing of such a hand as that; almost without lines: besides, what is in a palm? Destiny is not written there
I believe you
No
it is in the face: on the forehead, about the eyes, in the lines of the mouth. Kneel, and lift up your head
Ah! now you are coming to reality
I shall begin to put some faith in you presently
I wonder with what feelings you came to me to-night
I wonder what thoughts are busy in your heart during all the hours you sit in yonder room with the fine people flitting before you like shapes in a magic-lantern: just as little sympathetic communion passing between you and them as if they were really mere shadows of human forms, and not the actual substance
I feel tired often, sleepy sometimes, but seldom sad
Then you have some secret hope to buoy you up and please you with whispers of the future
Not I. The utmost I hope is, to save money enough out of my earnings to set up a school some day in a little house rented by myself
You have learned them from the servants
You have -- have you
there is diablerie in the business after all, then
Don't be alarmed
she's a safe hand is Mrs. Poole: close and quiet; any one may repose confidence in her. But, as I was saying: sitting in that window-seat, do you think of nothing but your future school? Have you no present interest in any of the company who occupy the sofas and chairs before you? Is there not one face you study? one figure whose movements you follow with at least curiosity
I like to observe all the faces and all the figures
But do you never single one from the rest -- or it may be, two
I do frequently; when the gestures or looks of a pair seem telling a tale: it amuses me to watch them
What tale do you like best to hear
Oh, I have not much choice! They generally run on the same theme -- courtship; and promise to end in the same catastrophe -- marriage
And do you like that monotonous theme
Positively, I don't care about it: it is nothing to me
I what
You know -- and perhaps think well of
I don't know the gentlemen here. I have scarcely interchanged a syllable with one of them; and as to thinking well of them, I consider some respectable, and stately, and middle-aged, and others young, dashing, handsome, and lively: but certainly they are all at liberty to be the recipients of whose smiles they please, without my feeling disposed to consider the transaction of any moment to me
You don't know the gentlemen here? You have not exchanged a syllable with one of them? Will you say that of the master of the house
He is not at home
A profound remark! A most ingenious quibble! He went to Millcote this morning, and will be back here to-night or to-morrow: does that circumstance exclude him from the list of your acquaintance -- blot him, as it were, out of existence
No; but I can scarcely see what Mr. Rochester has to do with the theme you had introduced
I was talking of ladies smiling in the eyes of gentlemen; and of late so many smiles have been shed into Mr. Rochester's eyes that they overflow like two cups filled above the brim: have you never remarked that
Mr. Rochester has a right to enjoy the society of his guests
No question about his right: but have you never observed that, of all the tales told here about matrimony, Mr. Rochester has been favoured with the most lively and the most continuous
The eagerness of a listener quickens the tongue of a narrator
Eagerness of a listener
yes; Mr. Rochester has sat by the hour, his ear inclined to the fascinating lips that took such delight in their task of communicating; and Mr. Rochester was so willing to receive and looked so grateful for the pastime given him; you have noticed this
Grateful! I cannot remember detecting gratitude in his face
Detecting! You have analysed, then. And what did you detect, if not gratitude
You have seen love: have you not? -- and, looking forward, you have seen him married, and beheld his bride happy
Humph! Not exactly. Your witch's skill is rather at fault sometimes
What the devil have you seen, then
Never mind: I came here to inquire, not to confess. Is it known that Mr. Rochester is to be married
Yes; and to the beautiful Miss Ingram
Shortly
But, mother, I did not come to hear Mr. Rochester's fortune: I came to hear my own; and you have told me nothing of it
Your fortune is yet doubtful: when I examined your face, one trait contradicted another. Chance has meted you a measure of happiness: that I know. I knew it before I came here this evening. She has laid it carefully on one side for you. I saw her do it. It depends on yourself to stretch out your hand, and take it up: but whether you will do so, is the problem I study. Kneel again on the rug
Don't keep me long; the fire scorches me
The flame flickers in the eye; the eye shines like dew; it looks soft and full of feeling; it smiles at my jargon: it is susceptible; impression follows impression through its clear sphere; where it ceases to smile, it is sad; an unconscious lassitude weighs on the lid: that signifies melancholy resulting from loneliness. It turns from me; it will not suffer further scrutiny; it seems to deny, by a mocking glance, the truth of the discoveries I have already made, -- to disown the charge both of sensibility and chagrin: its pride and reserve only confirm me in my opinion. The eye is favourable. "As to the mouth, it delights at times in laughter; it is disposed to impart all that the brain conceives; though I daresay it would be silent on much the heart experiences. Mobile and flexible, it was never intended to be compressed in the eternal silence of solitude: it is a mouth which should speak much and smile often, and have human affection for its interlocutor. That feature too is propitious. 

"I see no enemy to a fortunate issue but in the brow; and that brow professes to say, -- 'I can live alone, if self-respect, and circumstances require me so to do. I need not sell my soul to buy bliss. I have an inward treasure born with me, which can keep me alive if all extraneous delights should be withheld, or offered only at a price I cannot afford to give.' The forehead declares, 'Reason sits firm and holds the reins, and she will not let the feelings burst away and hurry her to wild chasms. The passions may rage furiously, like true heathens, as they are; and the desires may imagine all sorts of vain things: but judgment shall still have the last word in every argument, and the casting vote in every decision. Strong wind, earthquake-shock, and fire may pass by: but I shall follow the guiding of that still small voice which interprets the dictates of conscience.' 

"Well said, forehead; your declaration shall be respected. I have formed my plans -- right plans I deem them -- and in them I have attended to the claims of conscience, the counsels of reason. I know how soon youth would fade and bloom perish, if, in the cup of bliss offered, but one dreg of shame, or one flavour of remorse were detected; and I do not want sacrifice, sorrow, dissolution -- such is not my taste. I wish to foster, not to blight -- to earn gratitude, not to wring tears of blood -- no, nor of brine: my harvest must be in smiles, in endearments, in sweet -- That will do. I think I rave in a kind of exquisite delirium. I should wish now to protract this moment ad infinitum; but I dare not. So far I have governed myself thoroughly. I have acted as I inwardly swore I would act; but further might try me beyond my strength. Rise, Miss Eyre: leave me; the play is played out
Well, Jane, do you know me
But the string is in a knot -- help me
Break it, sir
There, then -- 'Off, ye lendings
Now, sir, what a strange idea
But well carried out, eh? Don't you think so
With the ladies you must have managed well
But not with you
You did not act the character of a gipsy with me
What character did I act? My own
No; some unaccountable one. In short, I believe you have been trying to draw me out -- or in; you have been talking nonsense to make me talk nonsense. It is scarcely fair, sir
Do you forgive me, Jane
I cannot tell till I have thought it all over. If, on reflection, I find I have fallen into no great absurdity, I shall try to forgive you; but it was not right
Oh, you have been very correct -- very careful, very sensible
Well
what are you musing about? What does that grave smile signify
Wonder and self-congratulation, sir. I have your permission to retire now, I suppose
No; stay a moment; and tell me what the people in the drawing-room yonder are doing
Discussing the gipsy, I daresay
Sit down! -- Let me hear what they said about me
I had better not stay long, sir; it must be near eleven o'clock. Oh, are you aware, Mr. Rochester, that a stranger has arrived here since you left this morning
A stranger! -- no; who can it be? I expected no one; is he gone
No; he said he had known you long, and that he could take the liberty of installing himself here till you returned
The devil he did! Did he give his name
His name is Mason, sir; and he comes from the West Indies; from Spanish Town, in Jamaica, I think
Mason! -- the West Indies
Mason! -- the West Indies
Do you feel ill, sir
Jane, I've got a blow; I've got a blow, Jane
Oh, lean on me, sir
Jane, you offered me your shoulder once before; let me have it now
Yes, sir, yes; and my arm
My little friend
I wish I were in a quiet island with only you; and trouble, and danger, and hideous recollections removed from me
Can I help you, sir? -- I'd give my life to serve you
Jane, if aid is wanted, I'll seek it at your hands; I promise you that
Thank you, sir. Tell me what to do, -- I'll try, at least, to do it
Fetch me now, Jane, a glass of wine from the dining-room: they will be at supper there; and tell me if Mason is with them, and what he is doing
Here is to your health, ministrant spirit
What are they doing, Jane
Laughing and talking, sir
They don't look grave and mysterious, as if they had heard something strange
Not at all: they are full of jests and gaiety
And Mason
He was laughing too
If all these people came in a body and spat at me, what would you do, Jane
Turn them out of the room, sir, if I could
But if I were to go to them, and they only looked at me coldly, and whispered sneeringly amongst each other, and then dropped off and left me one by one, what then? Would you go with them
I rather think not, sir: I should have more pleasure in staying with you
To comfort me
Yes, sir, to comfort you, as well as I could
And if they laid you under a ban for adhering to me
I, probably, should know nothing about their ban; and if I did, I should care nothing about it
Then, you could dare censure for my sake
I could dare it for the sake of any friend who deserved my adherence; as you, I am sure, do
Go back now into the room; step quietly up to Mason, and whisper in his ear that Mr. Rochester is come and wishes to see him: show him in here and then leave me
Yes, sir
This way, Mason; this is your room
Help! help! help
Will no one come
Rochester! Rochester! for God's sake, come
Oh! what is it
Who is hurt
What has happened
Fetch a light
Is it fire
Are there robbers
Where shall we run
Where the devil is Rochester
I cannot find him in his bed
Here! here
Be composed, all of you: I'm coming
What awful event has taken place
Speak! let us know the worst at once
But don't pull me down or strangle me
All's right! -- all's right
It's a mere rehearsal of Much Ado about Nothing. Ladies, keep off, or I shall wax dangerous
you will take cold to a dead certainty, if you stay in this chill gallery any longer
Am I wanted
Are you up
Yes, sir
And dressed
Yes
Come out, then, quietly
I want you
come this way: take your time, and make no noise
Have you a sponge in your room
Yes, sir
Have you any salts -- volatile salts
Yes
Go back and fetch both
You don't turn sick at the sight of blood
I think I shall not: I have never been tried yet
Just give me your hand
it will not do to risk a fainting fit
Warm and steady
Wait a minute
Here, Jane
Hold the candle
Hold that
Is there immediate danger
Pooh! No -- a mere scratch. Don't be so overcome, man: bear up! I'll fetch a surgeon for you now, myself: you'll be able to be removed by morning, I hope. Jane
Sir
I shall have to leave you in this room with this gentleman, for an hour, or perhaps two hours: you will sponge the blood as I do when it returns: if he feels faint, you will put the glass of water on that stand to his lips, and your salts to his nose. You will not speak to him on any pretext -- and -- Richard, it will be at the peril of your life if you speak to her: open your lips -- agitate yourself- -and I'll not answer for the consequences
Remember! -- No conversation
Jane, I have got a blow -- I have got a blow, Jane
When will he come? When will he come
Now, Carter, be on the alert
I give you but half-an-hour for dressing the wound, fastening the bandages, getting the patient downstairs and all
But is he fit to move, sir
No doubt of it; it is nothing serious; he is nervous, his spirits must be kept up. Come, set to work
Now, my good fellow, how are you
She's done for me, I fear
Not a whit! -- courage! This day fortnight you'll hardly be a pin the worse of it: you've lost a little blood; that's all. Carter, assure him there's no danger
I can do that conscientiously
only I wish I could have got here sooner: he would not have bled so much -- but how is this? The flesh on the shoulder is torn as well as cut. This wound was not done with a knife: there have been teeth here
She bit me
She worried me like a tigress, when Rochester got the knife from her
You should not have yielded: you should have grappled with her at once
But under such circumstances, what could one do
Oh, it was frightful
And I did not expect it: she looked so quiet at first
I warned you
I said -- be on your guard when you go near her. Besides, you might have waited till to- morrow, and had me with you: it was mere folly to attempt the interview to-night, and alone
I thought I could have done some good
You thought! you thought! Yes, it makes me impatient to hear you: but, however, you have suffered, and are likely to suffer enough for not taking my advice; so I'll say no more. Carter -- hurry! -- hurry! The sun will soon rise, and I must have him off
Directly, sir; the shoulder is just bandaged. I must look to this other wound in the arm: she has had her teeth here too, I think
She sucked the blood: she said she'd drain my heart
Come, be silent, Richard, and never mind her gibberish: don't repeat it
I wish I could forget it
You will when you are out of the country: when you get back to Spanish Town, you may think of her as dead and buried -- or rather, you need not think of her at all
Impossible to forget this night
take this key: go down into my bedroom, and walk straight forward into my dressing-room: open the top drawer of the wardrobe and take out a clean shirt and neck-handkerchief: bring them here; and be nimble
Now
go to the other side of the bed while I order his toilet; but don't leave the room: you may be wanted again
Was anybody stirring below when you went down, Jane
No, sir; all was very still
We shall get you off cannily, Dick: and it will be better, both for your sake, and for that of the poor creature in yonder. I have striven long to avoid exposure, and I should not like it to come at last. Here, Carter, help him on with his waist-coat. Where did you leave your furred cloak? You can't travel a mile without that, I know, in this damned cold climate. In your room? -- Jane, run down to Mr. Mason's room, -- the one next mine, -- and fetch a cloak you will see there
Now, I've another errand for you
you must away to my room again. What a mercy you are shod with velvet, Jane! -- a clod-hopping messenger would never do at this juncture. You must open the middle drawer of my toilet-table and take out a little phial and a little glass you will find there, -- quick
That's well! Now, doctor, I shall take the liberty of administering a dose myself, on my own responsibility. I got this cordial at Rome, of an Italian charlatan -- a fellow you would have kicked, Carter. It is not a thing to be used indiscriminately, but it is good upon occasion: as now, for instance. Jane, a little water
That will do; -- now wet the lip of the phial
Drink, Richard: it will give you the heart you lack, for an hour or so
But will it hurt me? -- is it inflammatory
Drink! drink! drink
Now I am sure you can get on your feet
try
Carter, take him under the other shoulder. Be of good cheer, Richard; step out -- that's it
I do feel better
I am sure you do. Now, Jane, trip on before us away to the backstairs; unbolt the side-passage door, and tell the driver of the post-chaise you will see in the yard -- or just outside, for I told him not to drive his rattling wheels over the pavement -- to be ready; we are coming: and, Jane, if any one is about, come to the foot of the stairs and hem
Take care of him
and keep him at your house till he is quite well: I shall ride over in a day or two to see how he gets on. Richard, how is it with you
The fresh air revives me, Fairfax
Leave the window open on his side, Carter; there is no wind -- good- bye, Dick
Well what is it
I do my best; and have done it, and will do it
Yet would to God there was an end of all this
Jane
Come where there is some freshness, for a few moments
that house is a mere dungeon: don't you feel it so
It seems to me a splendid mansion, sir
The glamour of inexperience is over your eyes
all is real, sweet, and pure
Jane, will you have a flower
Thank you, sir
Do you like this sunrise, Jane? That sky with its high and light clouds which are sure to melt away as the day waxes warm -- this placid and balmly atmosphere
I do, very much
You have passed a strange night, Jane
Yes, sir
And it has made you look pale -- were you afraid when I left you alone with Mason
I was afraid of some one coming out of the inner room
But I had fastened the door -- I had the key in my pocket: I should have been a careless shepherd if I had left a lamb -- my pet lamb -- so near a wolf's den, unguarded: you were safe
Will Grace Poole live here still, sir
Oh yes! don't trouble your head about her -- put the thing out of your thoughts
Yet it seems to me your life is hardly secure while she stays
Never fear -- I will take care of myself
Is the danger you apprehended last night gone by now, sir
I cannot vouch for that till Mason is out of England: nor even then. To live, for me, Jane, is to stand on a crater-crust which may crack and spue fire any day
But Mr. Mason seems a man easily led. Your influence, sir, is evidently potent with him: he will never set you at defiance or wilfully injure you
Oh, no! Mason will not defy me; nor, knowing it, will he hurt me -- but, unintentionally, he might in a moment, by one careless word, deprive me, if not of life, yet for ever of happiness
Tell him to be cautious, sir: let him know what you fear, and show him how to avert the danger
If I could do that, simpleton, where would the danger be? Annihilated in a moment. Ever since I have known Mason, I have only had to say to him 'Do that,' and the thing has been done. But I cannot give him orders in this case: I cannot say 'Beware of harming me, Richard;' for it is imperative that I should keep him ignorant that harm to me is possible. Now you look puzzled; and I will puzzle you further. You are my little friend, are you not
I like to serve you, sir, and to obey you in all that is right
Precisely: I see you do. I see genuine contentment in your gait and mien, your eye and face, when you are helping me and pleasing me -- working for me, and with me, in, as you characteristically say, 'ALL THAT IS RIGHT:' for if I bid you do what you thought wrong, there would be no light-footed running, no neat-handed alacrity, no lively glance and animated complexion. My friend would then turn to me, quiet and pale, and would say, 'No, sir; that is impossible: I cannot do it, because it is wrong;' and would become immutable as a fixed star. Well, you too have power over me, and may injure me: yet I dare not show you where I am vulnerable, lest, faithful and friendly as you are, you should transfix me at once
If you have no more to fear from Mr. Mason than you have from me, sir, you are very safe
God grant it may be so! Here, Jane, is an arbour; sit down
Sit
the bench is long enough for two. You don't hesitate to take a place at my side, do you? Is that wrong, Jane
Now, my little friend, while the sun drinks the dew -- while all the flowers in this old garden awake and expand, and the birds fetch their young ones' breakfast out of the Thornfield, and the early bees do their first spell of work -- I'll put a case to you, which you must endeavour to suppose your own: but first, look at me, and tell me you are at ease, and not fearing that I err in detaining you, or that you err in staying
No, sir; I am content
Well then, Jane, call to aid your fancy:- suppose you were no longer a girl well reared and disciplined, but a wild boy indulged from childhood upwards; imagine yourself in a remote foreign land; conceive that you there commit a capital error, no matter of what nature or from what motives, but one whose consequences must follow you through life and taint all your existence. Mind, I don't say a CRIME; I am not speaking of shedding of blood or any other guilty act, which might make the perpetrator amenable to the law: my word is ERROR. The results of what you have done become in time to you utterly insupportable; you take measures to obtain relief: unusual measures, but neither unlawful nor culpable. Still you are miserable; for hope has quitted you on the very confines of life: your sun at noon darkens in an eclipse, which you feel will not leave it till the time of setting. Bitter and base associations have become the sole food of your memory: you wander here and there, seeking rest in exile: happiness in pleasure -- I mean in heartless, sensual pleasure -- such as dulls intellect and blights feeling. Heart-weary and soul-withered, you come home after years of voluntary banishment: you make a new acquaintance -- how or where no matter: you find in this stranger much of the good and bright qualities which you have sought for twenty years, and never before encountered; and they are all fresh, healthy, without soil and without taint. Such society revives, regenerates: you feel better days come back -- higher wishes, purer feelings; you desire to recommence your life, and to spend what remains to you of days in a way more worthy of an immortal being. To attain this end, are you justified in overleaping an obstacle of custom -- a mere conventional impediment which neither your conscience sanctifies nor your judgment approves
Is the wandering and sinful, but now rest-seeking and repentant, man justified in daring the world's opinion, in order to attach to him for ever this gentle, gracious, genial stranger, thereby securing his own peace of mind and regeneration of life
Sir
a wanderer's repose or a sinner's reformation should never depend on a fellow-creature. Men and women die; philosophers falter in wisdom, and Christians in goodness: if any one you know has suffered and erred, let him look higher than his equals for strength to amend and solace to heal
Little friend
you have noticed my tender penchant for Miss Ingram: don't you think if I married her she would regenerate me with a vengeance
Jane, Jane
you are quite pale with your vigils: don't you curse me for disturbing your rest
Curse you? No, sir
Shake hands in confirmation of the word. What cold fingers! They were warmer last night when I touched them at the door of the mysterious chamber. Jane, when will you watch with me again
Whenever I can be useful, sir
For instance, the night before I am married! I am sure I shall not be able to sleep. Will you promise to sit up with me to bear me company? To you I can talk of my lovely one: for now you have seen her and know her
Yes, sir
She's a rare one, is she not, Jane
Yes, sir
A strapper -- a real strapper, Jane: big, brown, and buxom; with hair just such as the ladies of Carthage must have had. Bless me! there's Dent and Lynn in the stables! Go in by the shrubbery, through that wicket
Mason got the start of you all this morning; he was gone before sunrise: I rose at four to see him off
I daresay you hardly remember me, Miss
but my name is Leaven: I lived coachman with Mrs. Reed when you were at Gateshead, eight or nine years since, and I live there still
Oh, Robert! how do you do? I remember you very well: you used to give me a ride sometimes on Miss Georgiana's bay pony. And how is Bessie? You are married to Bessie
Yes, Miss: my wife is very hearty, thank you; she brought me another little one about two months since -- we have three now -- and both mother and child are thriving
And are the family well at the house, Robert
I am sorry I can't give you better news of them, Miss: they are very badly at present -- in great trouble
I hope no one is dead
Mr. John died yesterday was a week, at his chambers in London
Mr. John
Yes
And how does his mother bear it
Why, you see, Miss Eyre, it is not a common mishap: his life has been very wild: these last three years he gave himself up to strange ways, and his death was shocking
I heard from Bessie he was not doing well
Doing well! He could not do worse: he ruined his health and his estate amongst the worst men and the worst women. He got into debt and into jail: his mother helped him out twice, but as soon as he was free he returned to his old companions and habits. His head was not strong: the knaves he lived amongst fooled him beyond anything I ever heard. He came down to Gateshead about three weeks ago and wanted missis to give up all to him. Missis refused: her means have long been much reduced by his extravagance; so he went back again, and the next news was that he was dead. How he died, God knows! -- they say he killed himself
Missis had been out of health herself for some time: she had got very stout, but was not strong with it; and the loss of money and fear of poverty were quite breaking her down. The information about Mr. John's death and the manner of it came too suddenly: it brought on a stroke. She was three days without speaking; but last Tuesday she seemed rather better: she appeared as if she wanted to say something, and kept making signs to my wife and mumbling. It was only yesterday morning, however, that Bessie understood she was pronouncing your name; and at last she made out the words, 'Bring Jane -- fetch Jane Eyre: I want to speak to her.' Bessie is not sure whether she is in her right mind, or means anything by the words; but she told Miss Reed and Miss Georgiana, and advised them to send for you. The young ladies put it off at first; but their mother grew so restless, and said, 'Jane, Jane,' so many times, that at last they consented. I left Gateshead yesterday: and if you can get ready, Miss, I should like to take you back with me early to-morrow morning
Yes, Robert, I shall be ready: it seems to me that I ought to go
I think so too, Miss. Bessie said she was sure you would not refuse: but I suppose you will have to ask leave before you can get off
Yes; and I will do it now
What can the creeping creature want now
Mr. Rochester
Does that person want you
Well, Jane
If you please, sir, I want leave of absence for a week or two
What to do? -- where to go
To see a sick lady who has sent for me
What sick lady? -- where does she live
At Gateshead; in -shire
shire? That is a hundred miles off! Who may she be that sends for people to see her that distance
Her name is Reed, sir -- Mrs. Reed
Reed of Gateshead? There was a Reed of Gateshead, a magistrate
It is his widow, sir
And what have you to do with her? How do you know her
Mr. Reed was my uncle -- my mother's brother
The deuce he was! You never told me that before: you always said you had no relations
None that would own me, sir. Mr. Reed is dead, and his wife cast me off
Why
Because I was poor, and burdensome, and she disliked me
But Reed left children? -- you must have cousins? Sir George Lynn was talking of a Reed of Gateshead yesterday, who, he said, was one of the veriest rascals on town; and Ingram was mentioning a Georgiana Reed of the same place, who was much admired for her beauty a season or two ago in London
John Reed is dead, too, sir: he ruined himself and half-ruined his family, and is supposed to have committed suicide. The news so shocked his mother that it brought on an apoplectic attack
And what good can you do her? Nonsense, Jane! I would never think of running a hundred miles to see an old lady who will, perhaps, be dead before you reach her: besides, you say she cast you off
Yes, sir, but that is long ago; and when her circumstances were very different: I could not be easy to neglect her wishes now
How long will you stay
As short a time as possible, sir
I had better not pass my word: I might be obliged to break it
At all events you WILL come back: you will not be induced under any pretext to take up a permanent residence with her
Oh, no! I shall certainly return if all be well
And who goes with you? You don't travel a hundred miles alone
No, sir, she has sent her coachman
A person to be trusted
Yes, sir, he has lived ten years in the family
When do you wish to go
Early to-morrow morning, sir
Well, you must have some money; you can't travel without money, and I daresay you have not much: I have given you no salary yet. How much have you in the world, Jane
Five shillings, sir
Here
I don't want change; you know that. Take your wages
Right, right! Better not give you all now: you would, perhaps, stay away three months if you had fifty pounds. There are ten; is it not plenty
Yes, sir, but now you owe me five
Come back for it, then; I am your banker for forty pounds
Mr. Rochester, I may as well mention another matter of business to you while I have the opportunity
Matter of business? I am curious to hear it
You have as good as informed me, sir, that you are going shortly to be married
Yes; what then
In that case, sir, Adele ought to go to school: I am sure you will perceive the necessity of it
To get her out of my bride's way, who might otherwise walk over her rather too emphatically? There's sense in the suggestion; not a doubt of it. Adele, as you say, must go to school; and you, of course, must march straight to -- the devil
I hope not, sir; but I must seek another situation somewhere
In course
And old Madam Reed, or the Misses, her daughters, will be solicited by you to seek a place, I suppose
No, sir; I am not on such terms with my relatives as would justify me in asking favours of them -- but I shall advertise
You shall walk up the pyramids of Egypt
At your peril you advertise! I wish I had only offered you a sovereign instead of ten pounds. Give me back nine pounds, Jane; I've a use for it
And so have I, sir
I could not spare the money on any account
Little niggard
refusing me a pecuniary request! Give me five pounds, Jane
Not five shillings, sir; nor five pence
Just let me look at the cash
No, sir; you are not to be trusted
Jane
Sir
Promise me one thing
I'll promise you anything, sir, that I think I am likely to perform
Not to advertise: and to trust this quest of a situation to me. I'll find you one in time
I shall be glad so to do, sir, if you, in your turn, will promise that I and Adele shall be both safe out of the house before your bride enters it
Very well! very well! I'll pledge my word on it. You go to-morrow, then
Yes, sir; early
Shall you come down to the drawing-room after dinner
No, sir, I must prepare for the journey
Then you and I must bid good-bye for a little while
I suppose so, sir
And how do people perform that ceremony of parting, Jane? Teach me; I'm not quite up to it
They say, Farewell, or any other form they prefer
Then say it
Farewell, Mr. Rochester, for the present
What must I say
The same, if you like, sir
Farewell, Miss Eyre, for the present; is that all
Yes
It seems stingy, to my notions, and dry, and unfriendly. I should like something else: a little addition to the rite. If one shook hands, for instance; but no -- that would not content me either. So you'll do no more than say Farewell, Jane
It is enough, sir: as much good-will may be conveyed in one hearty word as in many
Very likely; but it is blank and cool -- 'Farewell
How long is he going to stand with his back against that door
I want to commence my packing
Bless you! -- I knew you would come
Yes, Bessie
and I trust I am not too late. How is Mrs. Reed? -- Alive still, I hope
Yes, she is alive; and more sensible and collected than she was. The doctor says she may linger a week or two yet; but he hardly thinks she will finally recover
Has she mentioned me lately
She was talking of you only this morning, and wishing you would come, but she is sleeping now, or was ten minutes ago, when I was up at the house. She generally lies in a kind of lethargy all the afternoon, and wakes up about six or seven. Will you rest yourself here an hour, Miss, and then I will go up with you
You shall go into the breakfast-room first
the young ladies will be there
Miss Eyre
How d'ye do
How is Mrs. Reed
Mrs. Reed? Ah! mama, you mean; she is extremely poorly: I doubt if you can see her to-night
If
you would just step upstairs and tell her I am come, I should be much obliged to you
I know she had a particular wish to see me
and I would not defer attending to her desire longer than is absolutely necessary
Mama dislikes being disturbed in an evening
Missis is awake
I have told her you are here: come and let us see if she will know you
Is this Jane Eyre
Yes, Aunt Reed. How are you, dear aunt
You sent for me
and I am here; and it is my intention to stay till I see how you get on
Oh, of course! You have seen my daughters
Yes
Sit up
don't annoy me with holding the clothes fast. Are you Jane Eyre
I am Jane Eyre
I have had more trouble with that child than any one would believe. Such a burden to be left on my hands -- and so much annoyance as she caused me, daily and hourly, with her incomprehensible disposition, and her sudden starts of temper, and her continual, unnatural watchings of one's movements! I declare she talked to me once like something mad, or like a fiend -- no child ever spoke or looked as she did; I was glad to get her away from the house. What did they do with her at Lowood? The fever broke out there, and many of the pupils died. She, however, did not die: but I said she did -- I wish she had died
A strange wish, Mrs. Reed; why do you hate her so
I had a dislike to her mother always; for she was my husband's only sister, and a great favourite with him: he opposed the family's disowning her when she made her low marriage; and when news came of her death, he wept like a simpleton. He would send for the baby; though I entreated him rather to put it out to nurse and pay for its maintenance. I hated it the first time I set my eyes on it -- a sickly, whining, pining thing! It would wail in its cradle all night long -- not screaming heartily like any other child, but whimpering and moaning. Reed pitied it; and he used to nurse it and notice it as if it had been his own: more, indeed, than he ever noticed his own at that age. He would try to make my children friendly to the little beggar: the darlings could not bear it, and he was angry with them when they showed their dislike. In his last illness, he had it brought continually to his bedside; and but an hour before he died, he bound me by vow to keep the creature. I would as soon have been charged with a pauper brat out of a workhouse: but he was weak, naturally weak. John does not at all resemble his father, and I am glad of it: John is like me and like my brothers -- he is quite a Gibson. Oh, I wish he would cease tormenting me with letters for money? I have no more money to give him: we are getting poor. I must send away half the servants and shut up part of the house; or let it off. I can never submit to do that -- yet how are we to get on? Two-thirds of my income goes in paying the interest of mortgages. John gambles dreadfully, and always loses -- poor boy! He is beset by sharpers: John is sunk and degraded -- his look is frightful -- I feel ashamed for him when I see him
I think I had better leave her now
Perhaps you had, Miss: but she often talks in this way towards night -- in the morning she is calmer
Stop
there is another thing I wished to say. He threatens me -- he continually threatens me with his own death, or mine: and I dream sometimes that I see him laid out with a great wound in his throat, or with a swollen and blackened face. I am come to a strange pass: I have heavy troubles. What is to be done? How is the money to be had
Good! but not quite the thing
they want more force and spirit
Is that a portrait of some one you know
an ugly man
the Rubric
Of course not. Georgiana and she had nothing in common: they never had had. She would not be burdened with her society for any consideration. Georgiana should take her own course; and she, Eliza, would take hers
It would be so much better
if she could only get out of the way for a month or two, till all was over
all being over
Georgiana, a more vain and absurd animal than you was certainly never allowed to cumber the earth. You had no right to be born, for you make no use of life. Instead of living for, in, and with yourself, as a reasonable being ought, you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person's strength: if no one can be found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat, weak, puffy, useless thing, you cry out that you are ill-treated, neglected, miserable. Then, too, existence for you must be a scene of continual change and excitement, or else the world is a dungeon: you must be admired, you must be courted, you must be flattered -- you must have music, dancing, and society -- or you languish, you die away. Have you no sense to devise a system which will make you independent of all efforts, and all wills, but your own? Take one day; share it into sections; to each section apportion its task: leave no stray unemployed quarters of an hour, ten minutes, five minutes -- include all; do each piece of business in its turn with method, with rigid regularity. The day will close almost before you are aware it has begun; and you are indebted to no one for helping you to get rid of one vacant moment: you have had to seek no one's company, conversation, sympathy, forbearance; you have lived, in short, as an independent being ought to do. Take this advice: the first and last I shall offer you; then you will not want me or any one else, happen what may. Neglect it -- go on as heretofore, craving, whining, and idling -- and suffer the results of your idiocy, however bad and insuperable they may be. I tell you this plainly; and listen: for though I shall no more repeat what I am now about to say, I shall steadily act on it. After my mother's death, I wash my hands of you: from the day her coffin is carried to the vault in Gateshead Church, you and I will be as separate as if we had never known each other. You need not think that because we chanced to be born of the same parents, I shall suffer you to fasten me down by even the feeblest claim: I can tell you this -- if the whole human race, ourselves excepted, were swept away, and we two stood alone on the earth, I would leave you in the old world, and betake myself to the new
You might have spared yourself the trouble of delivering that tirade
Everybody knows you are the most selfish, heartless creature in existence: and I know your spiteful hatred towards me: I have had a specimen of it before in the trick you played me about Lord Edwin Vere: you could not bear me to be raised above you, to have a title, to be received into circles where you dare not show your face, and so you acted the spy and informer, and ruined my prospects for ever
One lies there
who will soon be beyond the war of earthly elements. Whither will that spirit -- now struggling to quit its material tenement -- flit when at length released
Who is that
It is I, Aunt Reed
Who -- I
Who are you
You are quite a stranger to me -- where is Bessie
She is at the lodge, aunt
Aunt
Who calls me aunt? You are not one of the Gibsons; and yet I know you -- that face, and the eyes and forehead, are quiet familiar to me: you are like -- why, you are like Jane Eyre
Yet
I am afraid it is a mistake: my thoughts deceive me. I wished to see Jane Eyre, and I fancy a likeness where none exists: besides, in eight years she must be so changed
I am very ill, I know
I was trying to turn myself a few minutes since, and find I cannot move a limb. It is as well I should ease my mind before I die: what we think little of in health, burdens us at such an hour as the present is to me. Is the nurse here? or is there no one in the room but you
After all, it is of no great importance, perhaps
and then I may get better; and to humble myself so to her is painful
Well, I must get it over. Eternity is before me: I had better tell her. -- Go to my dressing-case, open it, and take out a letter you will see there
Read the letter
Madam, -- Will you have the goodness to send me the address of my niece, Jane Eyre, and to tell me how she is? It is my intention to write shortly and desire her to come to me at Madeira. Providence has blessed my endeavours to secure a competency; and as I am unmarried and childless, I wish to adopt her during my life, and bequeath her at my death whatever I may have to leave. -- I am, Madam, &amp;c., &amp;c., "JOHN EYRE, Madeira
Why did I never hear of this
Because I disliked you too fixedly and thoroughly ever to lend a hand in lifting you to prosperity. I could not forget your conduct to me, Jane -- the fury with which you once turned on me; the tone in which you declared you abhorred me the worst of anybody in the world; the unchildlike look and voice with which you affirmed that the very thought of me made you sick, and asserted that I had treated you with miserable cruelty. I could not forget my own sensations when you thus started up and poured out the venom of your mind: I felt fear as if an animal that I had struck or pushed had looked up at me with human eyes and cursed me in a man's voice. -- Bring me some water! Oh, make haste
Dear Mrs. Reed
think no more of all this, let it pass away from your mind. Forgive me for my passionate language: I was a child then; eight, nine years have passed since that day
I tell you I could not forget it; and I took my revenge: for you to be adopted by your uncle, and placed in a state of ease and comfort, was what I could not endure. I wrote to him; I said I was sorry for his disappointment, but Jane Eyre was dead: she had died of typhus fever at Lowood. Now act as you please: write and contradict my assertion -- expose my falsehood as soon as you like. You were born, I think, to be my torment: my last hour is racked by the recollection of a deed which, but for you, I should never have been tempted to commit
You have a very bad disposition
and one to this day I feel it impossible to understand: how for nine years you could be patient and quiescent under any treatment, and in the tenth break out all fire and violence, I can never comprehend
My disposition is not so bad as you think: I am passionate, but not vindictive. Many a time, as a little child, I should have been glad to love you if you would have let me; and I long earnestly to be reconciled to you now: kiss me, aunt
Love me, then, or hate me, as you will
you have my full and free forgiveness: ask now for God's, and be at peace
With her constitution she should have lived to a good old age: her life was shortened by trouble
If you and I were destined to live always together, cousin, we would commence matters on a different footing. I should not settle tamely down into being the forbearing party; I should assign you your share of labour, and compel you to accomplish it, or else it should be left undone: I should insist, also, on your keeping some of those drawling, half-insincere complaints hushed in your own breast. It is only because our connection happens to be very transitory, and comes at a peculiarly mournful season, that I consent thus to render it so patient and compliant on my part
And
I am obliged to you for your valuable services and discreet conduct! There is some difference between living with such an one as you and with Georgiana: you perform your own part in life and burden no one. To-morrow
I set out for the Continent. I shall take up my abode in a religious house near Lisle -- a nunnery you would call it; there I shall be quiet and unmolested. I shall devote myself for a time to the examination of the Roman Catholic dogmas, and to a careful study of the workings of their system: if I find it to be, as I half suspect it is, the one best calculated to ensure the doing of all things decently and in order, I shall embrace the tenets of Rome and probably take the veil
The vocation will fit you to a hair
much good may it do you
Good-bye, cousin Jane Eyre; I wish you well: you have some sense
You are not without sense, cousin Eliza; but what you have, I suppose, in another year will be walled up alive in a French convent. However, it is not my business, and so it suits you, I don't much care
You are in the right
You would be strangely incredulous if you did doubt it
I don't doubt it
Where was I to go
Mrs. Fairfax will smile you a calm welcome, to be sure
and little Adele will clap her hands and jump to see you: but you know very well you are thinking of another than they, and that he is not thinking of you
Hasten! hasten! be with him while you may: but a few more days or weeks, at most, and you are parted from him for ever
Hillo
There you are! Come on, if you please
And this is Jane Eyre? Are you coming from Millcote, and on foot? Yes -- just one of your tricks: not to send for a carriage, and come clattering over street and road like a common mortal, but to steal into the vicinage of your home along with twilight, just as if you were a dream or a shade. What the deuce have you done with yourself this last month
I have been with my aunt, sir, who is dead
A true Janian reply! Good angels be my guard! She comes from the other world -- from the abode of people who are dead; and tells me so when she meets me alone here in the gloaming! If I dared, I'd touch you, to see if you are substance or shadow, you elf! -- but I'd as soon offer to take hold of a blue ignis fatuus light in a marsh. Truant! truant
Absent from me a whole month, and forgetting me quite, I'll be sworn
Yes; I suppose you found that out by second-sight
Mrs. Fairfax told me in a letter
And did she inform you what I went to do
Oh, yes, sir! Everybody knew your errand
You must see the carriage, Jane, and tell me if you don't think it will suit Mrs. Rochester exactly; and whether she won't look like Queen Boadicea, leaning back against those purple cushions. I wish, Jane, I were a trifle better adapted to match with her externally. Tell me now, fairy as you are -- can't you give me a charm, or a philter, or something of that sort, to make me a handsome man
It would be past the power of magic, sir
A loving eye is all the charm needed: to such you are handsome enough; or rather your sternness has a power beyond beauty
Pass, Janet
go up home, and stay your weary little wandering feet at a friend's threshold
Thank you, Mr. Rochester, for your great kindness. I am strangely glad to get back again to you: and wherever you are is my home -- my only home
prete e croquer sa petite maman Anglaise
Day its fervid fires had wasted
Now, he has his back towards me
and he is occupied too; perhaps, if I walk softly, I can slip away unnoticed
I shall get by very well
Jane, come and look at this fellow
Look at his wings
he reminds me rather of a West Indian insect; one does not often see so large and gay a night-rover in England; there! he is flown
Turn back: on so lovely a night it is a shame to sit in the house; and surely no one can wish to go to bed while sunset is thus at meeting with moonrise
Jane
Thornfield is a pleasant place in summer, is it not
Yes, sir
You must have become in some degree attached to the house, -- you, who have an eye for natural beauties, and a good deal of the organ of Adhesiveness
I am attached to it, indeed
And though I don't comprehend how it is, I perceive you have acquired a degree of regard for that foolish little child Adele, too; and even for simple dame Fairfax
Yes, sir; in different ways, I have an affection for both
And would be sorry to part with them
Yes
Pity
It is always the way of events in this life
no sooner have you got settled in a pleasant resting-place, than a voice calls out to you to rise and move on, for the hour of repose is expired
Must I move on, sir
Must I leave Thornfield
I believe you must, Jane. I am sorry, Janet, but I believe indeed you must
Well, sir, I shall be ready when the order to march comes
It is come now -- I must give it to-night
Then you ARE going to be married, sir
Ex-act-ly -- pre-cise-ly: with your usual acuteness, you have hit the nail straight on the head
Soon, sir
Very soon, my -- that is, Miss Eyre: and you'll remember, Jane, the first time I, or Rumour, plainly intimated to you that it was my intention to put my old bachelor's neck into the sacred noose, to enter into the holy estate of matrimony -- to take Miss Ingram to my bosom, in short (she's an extensive armful: but that's not to the point -- one can't have too much of such a very excellent thing as my beautiful Blanche): well, as I was saying -- listen to me, Jane! You're not turning your head to look after more moths, are you? That was only a lady-clock, child, 'flying away home.' I wish to remind you that it was you who first said to me, with that discretion I respect in you -- with that foresight, prudence, and humility which befit your responsible and dependent position -- that in case I married Miss Ingram, both you and little Adele had better trot forthwith. I pass over the sort of slur conveyed in this suggestion on the character of my beloved; indeed, when you are far away, Janet, I'll try to forget it: I shall notice only its wisdom; which is such that I have made it my law of action. Adele must go to school; and you, Miss Eyre, must get a new situation
I suppose I may stay here, till I find another shelter to betake myself to
In about a month I hope to be a bridegroom
and in the interim, I shall myself look out for employment and an asylum for you
Oh, no need to apologise! I consider that when a dependent does her duty as well as you have done yours, she has a sort of claim upon her employer for any little assistance he can conveniently render her; indeed I have already, through my future mother-in-law, heard of a place that I think will suit: it is to undertake the education of the five daughters of Mrs. Dionysius O'Gall of Bitternutt Lodge, Connaught, Ireland. You'll like Ireland, I think: they're such warm-hearted people there, they say
It is a long way off, sir
No matter -- a girl of your sense will not object to the voyage or the distance
From what, Jane
Well
From YOU, sir
It is a long way
It is, to be sure; and when you get to Bitternutt Lodge, Connaught, Ireland, I shall never see you again, Jane: that's morally certain. I never go over to Ireland, not having myself much of a fancy for the country. We have been good friends, Jane; have we not
Yes, sir
And when friends are on the eve of separation, they like to spend the little time that remains to them close to each other. Come! we'll talk over the voyage and the parting quietly half-an-hour or so, while the stars enter into their shining life up in heaven yonder: here is the chestnut tree: here is the bench at its old roots. Come, we will sit there in peace to-night, though we should never more be destined to sit there together
It is a long way to Ireland, Janet, and I am sorry to send my little friend on such weary travels: but if I can't do better, how is it to be helped? Are you anything akin to me, do you think, Jane
Because
I sometimes have a queer feeling with regard to you -- especially when you are near me, as now: it is as if I had a string somewhere under my left ribs, tightly and inextricably knotted to a similar string situated in the corresponding quarter of your little frame. And if that boisterous Channel, and two hundred miles or so of land come broad between us, I am afraid that cord of communion will be snapt; and then I've a nervous notion I should take to bleeding inwardly. As for you, -- you'd forget me
That I NEVER should, sir: You know -- " Impossible to proceed. "Jane, do you hear that nightingale singing in the wood? Listen
Because you are sorry to leave it
I grieve to leave Thornfield: I love Thornfield:- I love it, because I have lived in it a full and delightful life, -- momentarily at least. I have not been trampled on. I have not been petrified. I have not been buried with inferior minds, and excluded from every glimpse of communion with what is bright and energetic and high. I have talked, face to face, with what I reverence, with what I delight in, -- with an original, a vigorous, an expanded mind. I have known you, Mr. Rochester; and it strikes me with terror and anguish to feel I absolutely must be torn from you for ever. I see the necessity of departure; and it is like looking on the necessity of death
Where do you see the necessity
Where? You, sir, have placed it before me
In what shape
In the shape of Miss Ingram; a noble and beautiful woman, -- your bride
My bride! What bride? I have no bride
But you will have
Yes; -- I will! -- I will
Then I must go:- you have said it yourself
No: you must stay! I swear it -- and the oath shall be kept
I tell you I must go
Do you think I can stay to become nothing to you? Do you think I am an automaton? -- a machine without feelings? and can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips, and my drop of living water dashed from my cup? Do you think, because I am poor, obscure, plain, and little, I am soulless and heartless? You think wrong! -- I have as much soul as you, -- and full as much heart! And if God had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth, I should have made it as hard for you to leave me, as it is now for me to leave you. I am not talking to you now through the medium of custom, conventionalities, nor even of mortal flesh; -- it is my spirit that addresses your spirit; just as if both had passed through the grave, and we stood at God's feet, equal, -- as we are
As we are
so
so, Jane
Yes, so, sir
and yet not so; for you are a married man -- or as good as a married man, and wed to one inferior to you -- to one with whom you have no sympathy -- whom I do not believe you truly love; for I have seen and heard you sneer at her. I would scorn such a union: therefore I am better than you -- let me go
Where, Jane? To Ireland
Yes -- to Ireland. I have spoken my mind, and can go anywhere now
Jane, be still; don't struggle so, like a wild frantic bird that is rending its own plumage in its desperation
I am no bird; and no net ensnares me; I am a free human being with an independent will, which I now exert to leave you
And your will shall decide your destiny
I offer you my hand, my heart, and a share of all my possessions
You play a farce, which I merely laugh at
I ask you to pass through life at my side -- to be my second self, and best earthly companion
For that fate you have already made your choice, and must abide by it
Jane, be still a few moments: you are over-excited: I will be still too
Come to my side, Jane, and let us explain and understand one another
I will never again come to your side: I am torn away now, and cannot return
But, Jane, I summon you as my wife: it is you only I intend to marry
Come, Jane -- come hither
Your bride stands between us
My bride is here
because my equal is here, and my likeness. Jane, will you marry me
Do you doubt me, Jane
Entirely
You have no faith in me
Not a whit
Am I a liar in your eyes
Little sceptic, you SHALL be convinced. What love have I for Miss Ingram? None: and that you know. What love has she for me? None: as I have taken pains to prove: I caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was not a third of what was supposed, and after that I presented myself to see the result; it was coldness both from her and her mother. I would not -- I could not -- marry Miss Ingram. You -- you strange, you almost unearthly thing! -- I love as my own flesh. You -- poor and obscure, and small and plain as you are -- I entreat to accept me as a husband
What, me
me who have not a friend in the world but you -- if you are my friend: not a shilling but what you have given me
You, Jane, I must have you for my own -- entirely my own. Will you be mine? Say yes, quickly
Mr. Rochester, let me look at your face: turn to the moonlight
Why
Because I want to read your countenance -- turn
There! you will find it scarcely more legible than a crumpled, scratched page. Read on: only make haste, for I suffer
Oh, Jane, you torture me
With that searching and yet faithful and generous look, you torture me
How can I do that? If you are true, and your offer real, my only feelings to you must be gratitude and devotion -- they cannot torture
Gratitude
Jane accept me quickly. Say, Edward -- give me my name -- Edward -- I will marry you
Are you in earnest? Do you truly love me? Do you sincerely wish me to be your wife
I do; and if an oath is necessary to satisfy you, I swear it
Then, sir, I will marry you
Edward -- my little wife
Dear Edward
Come to me -- come to me entirely now
Make my happiness -- I will make yours
God pardon me
and man meddle not with me: I have her, and will hold her
There is no one to meddle, sir. I have no kindred to interfere
No -- that is the best of it
Are you happy, Jane
Yes
It will atone -- it will atone. Have I not found her friendless, and cold, and comfortless? Will I not guard, and cherish, and solace her? Is there not love in my heart, and constancy in my resolves? It will expiate at God's tribunal. I know my Maker sanctions what I do. For the world's judgment -- I wash my hands thereof. For man's opinion -- I defy it
We must go in
the weather changes. I could have sat with thee till morning, Jane
And so
could I with you
Hasten to take off your wet things
and before you go, good-night -- good-night, my darling
Explanation will do for another time
Miss Eyre, will you come to breakfast
Where are you going? It is time for lessons
Mr. Rochester has sent me away to the nursery
Where is he
In there
Come and bid me good-morning
Jane, you look blooming, and smiling, and pretty
truly pretty this morning. Is this my pale, little elf? Is this my mustard-seed? This little sunny-faced girl with the dimpled cheek and rosy lips; the satin-smooth hazel hair, and the radiant hazel eyes
It is Jane Eyre, sir
Soon to be Jane Rochester
in four weeks, Janet; not a day more. Do you hear that
You blushed, and now you are white, Jane: what is that for
Because you gave me a new name -- Jane Rochester; and it seems so strange
Yes, Mrs. Rochester
young Mrs. Rochester -- Fairfax Rochester's girl-bride
It can never be, sir; it does not sound likely. Human beings never enjoy complete happiness in this world. I was not born for a different destiny to the rest of my species: to imagine such a lot befalling me is a fairy tale -- a day-dream
Which I can and will realise. I shall begin to-day. This morning I wrote to my banker in London to send me certain jewels he has in his keeping, -- heirlooms for the ladies of Thornfield. In a day or two I hope to pour them into your lap: for every privilege, every attention shall be yours that I would accord a peer's daughter, if about to marry her
Oh, sir! -- never rain jewels! I don't like to hear them spoken of. Jewels for Jane Eyre sounds unnatural and strange: I would rather not have them
I will myself put the diamond chain round your neck, and the circlet on your forehead, -- which it will become: for nature, at least, has stamped her patent of nobility on this brow, Jane; and I will clasp the bracelets on these fine wrists, and load these fairy-like fingers with rings
No, no, sir! think of other subjects, and speak of other things, and in another strain. Don't address me as if I were a beauty; I am your plain, Quakerish governess
You are a beauty in my eyes, and a beauty just after the desire of my heart, -- delicate and aerial
Puny and insignificant, you mean. You are dreaming, sir, -- or you are sneering. For God's sake don't be ironical
I will make the world acknowledge you a beauty, too
I will attire my Jane in satin and lace, and she shall have roses in her hair; and I will cover the head I love best with a priceless veil
And then you won't know me, sir; and I shall not be your Jane Eyre any longer, but an ape in a harlequin's jacket -- a jay in borrowed plumes. I would as soon see you, Mr. Rochester, tricked out in stage-trappings, as myself clad in a court-lady's robe; and I don't call you handsome, sir, though I love you most dearly: far too dearly to flatter you. Don't flatter me
This very day I shall take you in the carriage to Millcote, and you must choose some dresses for yourself. I told you we shall be married in four weeks. The wedding is to take place quietly, in the church down below yonder; and then I shall waft you away at once to town. After a brief stay there, I shall bear my treasure to regions nearer the sun: to French vineyards and Italian plains; and she shall see whatever is famous in old story and in modern record: she shall taste, too, of the life of cities; and she shall learn to value herself by just comparison with others
Shall I travel? -- and with you, sir
You shall sojourn at Paris, Rome, and Naples: at Florence, Venice, and Vienna: all the ground I have wandered over shall be re-trodden by you: wherever I stamped my hoof, your sylph's foot shall step also. Ten years since, I flew through Europe half mad; with disgust, hate, and rage as my companions: now I shall revisit it healed and cleansed, with a very angel as my comforter
I am not an angel
and I will not be one till I die: I will be myself. Mr. Rochester, you must neither expect nor exact anything celestial of me -- for you will not get it, any more than I shall get it of you: which I do not at all anticipate
What do you anticipate of me
For a little while you will perhaps be as you are now, -- a very little while; and then you will turn cool; and then you will be capricious; and then you will be stern, and I shall have much ado to please you: but when you get well used to me, you will perhaps like me again, -- LIKE me, I say, not LOVE me. I suppose your love will effervesce in six months, or less. I have observed in books written by men, that period assigned as the farthest to which a husband's ardour extends. Yet, after all, as a friend and companion, I hope never to become quite distasteful to my dear master
Distasteful! and like you again! I think I shall like you again, and yet again: and I will make you confess I do not only LIKE, but LOVE you -- with truth, fervour, constancy
Yet are you not capricious, sir
To women who please me only by their faces, I am the very devil when I find out they have neither souls nor hearts -- when they open to me a perspective of flatness, triviality, and perhaps imbecility, coarseness, and ill-temper: but to the clear eye and eloquent tongue, to the soul made of fire, and the character that bends but does not break -- at once supple and stable, tractable and consistent -- I am ever tender and true
Had you ever experience of such a character, sir? Did you ever love such an one
I love it now
But before me: if I, indeed, in any respect come up to your difficult standard
I never met your likeness. Jane, you please me, and you master me -- you seem to submit, and I like the sense of pliancy you impart; and while I am twining the soft, silken skein round my finger, it sends a thrill up my arm to my heart. I am influenced -- conquered; and the influence is sweeter than I can express; and the conquest I undergo has a witchery beyond any triumph I can win. Why do you smile, Jane? What does that inexplicable, that uncanny turn of countenance mean
Hush, sir! You don't talk very wisely just now; any more than those gentlemen acted very wisely. However, had they been married, they would no doubt by their severity as husbands have made up for their softness as suitors; and so will you, I fear. I wonder how you will answer me a year hence, should I ask a favour it does not suit your convenience or pleasure to grant
Indeed I will, sir; I have my petition all ready
Speak! But if you look up and smile with that countenance, I shall swear concession before I know to what, and that will make a fool of me
Not at all, sir; I ask only this: don't send for the jewels, and don't crown me with roses: you might as well put a border of gold lace round that plain pocket handkerchief you have there
I might as well 'gild refined gold.' I know it: your request is granted then -- for the time. I will remand the order I despatched to my banker. But you have not yet asked for anything; you have prayed a gift to be withdrawn: try again
Well then, sir, have the goodness to gratify my curiosity, which is much piqued on one point
What? what
But there can be no danger in complying with this, sir
Utter it, Jane: but I wish that instead of a mere inquiry into, perhaps, a secret, it was a wish for half my estate
Now, King Ahasuerus! What do I want with half your estate? Do you think I am a Jew-usurer, seeking good investment in land? I would much rather have all your confidence. You will not exclude me from your confidence if you admit me to your heart
You are welcome to all my confidence that is worth having, Jane; but for God's sake, don't desire a useless burden! Don't long for poison -- don't turn out a downright Eve on my hands
Why not, sir? You have just been telling me how much you liked to be conquered, and how pleasant over-persuasion is to you. Don't you think I had better take advantage of the confession, and begin and coax and entreat -- even cry and be sulky if necessary -- for the sake of a mere essay of my power
I dare you to any such experiment. Encroach, presume, and the game is up
Is it, sir? You soon give in. How stern you look now! Your eyebrows have become as thick as my finger, and your forehead resembles what, in some very astonishing poetry, I once saw styled, 'a blue-piled thunderloft.' That will be your married look, sir, I suppose
If that will be YOUR married look, I, as a Christian, will soon give up the notion of consorting with a mere sprite or salamander. But what had you to ask, thing, -- out with it
There, you are less than civil now; and I like rudeness a great deal better than flattery. I had rather be a THING than an angel. This is what I have to ask, -- Why did you take such pains to make me believe you wished to marry Miss Ingram
Is that all? Thank God it is no worse
I think I may confess
even although I should make you a little indignant, Jane -- and I have seen what a fire-spirit you can be when you are indignant. You glowed in the cool moonlight last night, when you mutinied against fate, and claimed your rank as my equal. Janet, by-the-bye, it was you who made me the offer
Of course I did. But to the point if you please, sir -- Miss Ingram
Well, I feigned courtship of Miss Ingram, because I wished to render you as madly in love with me as I was with you; and I knew jealousy would be the best ally I could call in for the furtherance of that end
Excellent! Now you are small -- not one whit bigger than the end of my little finger. It was a burning shame and a scandalous disgrace to act in that way. Did you think nothing of Miss Ingram's feelings, sir
Her feelings are concentrated in one -- pride; and that needs humbling. Were you jealous, Jane
Never mind, Mr. Rochester: it is in no way interesting to you to know that. Answer me truly once more. Do you think Miss Ingram will not suffer from your dishonest coquetry? Won't she feel forsaken and deserted
Impossible! -- when I told you how she, on the contrary, deserted me: the idea of my insolvency cooled, or rather extinguished, her flame in a moment
You have a curious, designing mind, Mr. Rochester. I am afraid your principles on some points are eccentric
My principles were never trained, Jane: they may have grown a little awry for want of attention
Once again, seriously; may I enjoy the great good that has been vouchsafed to me, without fearing that any one else is suffering the bitter pain I myself felt a while ago
That you may, my good little girl: there is not another being in the world has the same pure love for me as yourself -- for I lay that pleasant unction to my soul, Jane, a belief in your affection
Ask something more
it is my delight to be entreated, and to yield
Communicate your intentions to Mrs. Fairfax, sir: she saw me with you last night in the hall, and she was shocked. Give her some explanation before I see her again. It pains me to be misjudged by so good a woman
Go to your room, and put on your bonnet
I mean you to accompany me to Millcote this morning; and while you prepare for the drive, I will enlighten the old lady's understanding. Did she think, Janet, you had given the world for love, and considered it well lost
I believe she thought I had forgotten my station, and yours, sir
Station! station! -- your station is in my heart, and on the necks of those who would insult you, now or hereafter. -- Go
I feel so astonished
I hardly know what to say to you, Miss Eyre. I have surely not been dreaming, have I? Sometimes I half fall asleep when I am sitting alone and fancy things that have never happened. It has seemed to me more than once when I have been in a doze, that my dear husband, who died fifteen years since, has come in and sat down beside me; and that I have even heard him call me by my name, Alice, as he used to do. Now, can you tell me whether it is actually true that Mr. Rochester has asked you to marry him? Don't laugh at me. But I really thought he came in here five minutes ago, and said that in a month you would be his wife
He has said the same thing to me
He has! Do you believe him? Have you accepted him
Yes
I could never have thought it. He is a proud man: all the Rochesters were proud: and his father, at least, liked money. He, too, has always been called careful. He means to marry you
He tells me so
It passes me
but no doubt, it is true since you say so. How it will answer, I cannot tell: I really don't know. Equality of position and fortune is often advisable in such cases; and there are twenty years of difference in your ages. He might almost be your father
No, indeed, Mrs. Fairfax
he is nothing like my father! No one, who saw us together, would suppose it for an instant. Mr. Rochester looks as young, and is as young, as some men at five-and-twenty
Is it really for love he is going to marry you
I am sorry to grieve you
but you are so young, and so little acquainted with men, I wished to put you on your guard. It is an old saying that 'all is not gold that glitters;' and in this case I do fear there will be something found to be different to what either you or I expect
Why? -- am I a monster
is it impossible that Mr. Rochester should have a sincere affection for me
No: you are very well; and much improved of late; and Mr. Rochester, I daresay, is fond of you. I have always noticed that you were a sort of pet of his. There are times when, for your sake, I have been a little uneasy at his marked preference, and have wished to put you on your guard: but I did not like to suggest even the possibility of wrong. I knew such an idea would shock, perhaps offend you; and you were so discreet, and so thoroughly modest and sensible, I hoped you might be trusted to protect yourself. Last night I cannot tell you what I suffered when I sought all over the house, and could find you nowhere, nor the master either; and then, at twelve o'clock, saw you come in with him
Well, never mind that now
it is enough that all was right
I hope all will be right in the end
but believe me, you cannot be too careful. Try and keep Mr. Rochester at a distance: distrust yourself as well as him. Gentlemen in his station are not accustomed to marry their governesses
Let me go, -- let me go to Millcote too
Mr. Rochester won't: though there is so much room in the new carriage. Beg him to let me go mademoiselle
That I will, Adele
Adele may accompany us, may she not, sir
I told her no. I'll have no brats! -- I'll have only you
Do let her go, Mr. Rochester, if you please: it would be better
Not it: she will be a restraint
What is the matter
all the sunshine is gone. Do you really wish the bairn to go? Will it annoy you if she is left behind
I would far rather she went, sir
Then off for your bonnet, and back like a flash of lightning
After all, a single morning's interruption will not matter much
when I mean shortly to claim you -- your thoughts, conversation, and company -- for life
Let her come to me
she will, perhaps, trouble you, sir: there is plenty of room on this side
I'll send her to school yet
sans mademoiselle
Yes
absolutely sans mademoiselle; for I am to take mademoiselle to the moon, and there I shall seek a cave in one of the white valleys among the volcano-tops, and mademoiselle shall live with me there, and only me
She will have nothing to eat: you will starve her
I shall gather manna for her morning and night: the plains and hillsides in the moon are bleached with manna, Adele
She will want to warm herself: what will she do for a fire
Fire rises out of the lunar mountains: when she is cold, I'll carry her up to a peak, and lay her down on the edge of a crater
Oh, qu' elle y sera mal -- peu comfortable! And her clothes, they will wear out: how can she get new ones
Hem
What would you do, Adele? Cudgel your brains for an expedient. How would a white or a pink cloud answer for a gown, do you think? And one could cut a pretty enough scarf out of a rainbow
She is far better as she is
besides, she would get tired of living with only you in the moon. If I were mademoiselle, I would never consent to go with you
She has consented: she has pledged her word
But you can't get her there; there is no road to the moon: it is all air; and neither you nor she can fly
Adele, look at that field
In that field, Adele, I was walking late one evening about a fortnight since -- the evening of the day you helped me to make hay in the orchard meadows; and, as I was tired with raking swaths, I sat down to rest me on a stile; and there I took out a little book and a pencil, and began to write about a misfortune that befell me long ago, and a wish I had for happy days to come: I was writing away very fast, though daylight was fading from the leaf, when something came up the path and stopped two yards off me. I looked at it. It was a little thing with a veil of gossamer on its head. I beckoned it to come near me; it stood soon at my knee. I never spoke to it, and it never spoke to me, in words; but I read its eyes, and it read mine; and our speechless colloquy was to this effect - "It was a fairy, and come from Elf-land, it said; and its errand was to make me happy: I must go with it out of the common world to a lonely place -- such as the moon, for instance -- and it nodded its head towards her horn, rising over Hay-hill: it told me of the alabaster cave and silver vale where we might live. I said I should like to go; but reminded it, as you did me, that I had no wings to fly. 

"'Oh, ' returned the fairy, 'that does not signify! Here is a talisman will remove all difficulties;' and she held out a pretty gold ring. 'Put it,' she said, 'on the fourth finger of my left hand, and I am yours, and you are mine; and we shall leave earth, and make our own heaven yonder.' She nodded again at the moon. The ring, Adele, is in my breeches-pocket, under the disguise of a sovereign: but I mean soon to change it to a ring again
But what has mademoiselle to do with it? I don't care for the fairy: you said it was mademoiselle you would take to the moon
Mademoiselle is a fairy
un vrai menteur
contes de fee
du reste, il n'y avait pas de fees, et quand meme il y en avait
It might pass for the present
but he would yet see me glittering like a parterre
It would, indeed, be a relief
if I had ever so small an independency; I never can bear being dressed like a doll by Mr. Rochester, or sitting like a second Danae with the golden shower falling daily round me. I will write to Madeira the moment I get home, and tell my uncle John I am going to be married, and to whom: if I had but a prospect of one day bringing Mr. Rochester an accession of fortune, I could better endure to be kept by him now
You need not look in that way
if you do, I'll wear nothing but my old Lowood frocks to the end of the chapter. I'll be married in this lilac gingham: you may make a dressing-gown for yourself out of the pearl-grey silk, and an infinite series of waistcoats out of the black satin
Oh, it is rich to see and hear her
Is she original? Is she piquant? I would not exchange this one little English girl for the Grand Turk's whole seraglio, gazelle-eyes, houri forms, and all
I'll not stand you an inch in the stead of a seraglio
so don't consider me an equivalent for one. If you have a fancy for anything in that line, away with you, sir, to the bazaars of Stamboul without delay, and lay out in extensive slave-purchases some of that spare cash you seem at a loss to spend satisfactorily here
And what will you do, Janet, while I am bargaining for so many tons of flesh and such an assortment of black eyes
I'll be preparing myself to go out as a missionary to preach liberty to them that are enslaved -- your harem inmates amongst the rest. I'll get admitted there, and I'll stir up mutiny; and you, three-tailed bashaw as you are, sir, shall in a trice find yourself fettered amongst our hands: nor will I, for one, consent to cut your bonds till you have signed a charter, the most liberal that despot ever yet conferred
I would consent to be at your mercy, Jane
I would have no mercy, Mr. Rochester, if you supplicated for it with an eye like that. While you looked so, I should be certain that whatever charter you might grant under coercion, your first act, when released, would be to violate its conditions
Why, Jane, what would you have? I fear you will compel me to go through a private marriage ceremony, besides that performed at the altar. You will stipulate, I see, for peculiar terms -- what will they be
Well, but what
Your regard; and if I give you mine in return, that debt will be quit
Well, for cool native impudence and pure innate pride, you haven't your equal
Will it please you to dine with me to-day
No, thank you, sir
And what for, 'no, thank you?' if one may inquire
Till what? You delight in half-phrases
Till I can't help it
Do you suppose I eat like an ogre or a ghoul, that you dread being the companion of my repast
I have formed no supposition on the subject, sir; but I want to go on as usual for another month
You will give up your governessing slavery at once
Indeed, begging your pardon, sir, I shall not. I shall just go on with it as usual. I shall keep out of your way all day, as I have been accustomed to do: you may send for me in the evening, when you feel disposed to see me, and I'll come then; but at no other time
Yes, bonny wee thing, I'll wear you in my bosom, lest my jewel I should tyne
Did I like his voice
Very much
Then, Jane, you must play the accompaniment
Very well, sir, I will try
a little bungler
The truest love that ever heart Felt at its kindled core, Did through each vein, in quickened start, The tide of being pour. "Her coming was my hope each day, Her parting was my pain; The chance that did her steps delay Was ice in every vein. 

"I dreamed it would be nameless bliss, As I loved, loved to be; And to this object did I press As blind as eagerly. 

"But wide as pathless was the space That lay our lives between, And dangerous as the foamy race Of ocean-surges green. 

"And haunted as a robber-path Through wilderness or wood; For Might and Right, and Woe and Wrath, Between our spirits stood. 

"I dangers dared; I hindrance scorned I omens did defy: Whatever menaced, harassed, warned, I passed impetuous by. 

"On sped my rainbow, fast as light; I flew as in a dream; For glorious rose upon my sight That child of Shower and Gleam. 

"Still bright on clouds of suffering dim Shines that soft, solemn joy; Nor care I now, how dense and grim Disasters gather nigh. 

"I care not in this moment sweet, Though all I have rushed o'er Should come on pinion, strong and fleet, Proclaiming vengeance sore: 

"Though haughty Hate should strike me down, Right, bar approach to me, And grinding Might, with furious frown, Swear endless enmity. 

"My love has placed her little hand With noble faith in mine, And vowed that wedlock's sacred band Our nature shall entwine. 

"My love has sworn, with sealing kiss, With me to live -- to die; I have at last my nameless bliss. As I love -- loved am I
whom he was going to marry now
That was a strange question to be put by his darling Jane
Indeed! I considered it a very natural and necessary one: he had talked of his future wife dying with him. What did he mean by such a pagan idea? I had no intention of dying with him -- he might depend on that
Oh, all he longed, all he prayed for, was that I might live with him! Death was not for such as I
Indeed it was: I had as good a right to die when my time came as he had: but I should bide that time, and not be hurried away in a suttee
Would I forgive him for the selfish idea, and prove my pardon by a reconciling kiss
No: I would rather be excused
hard little thing
any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing such stanzas crooned in her praise
Would I be quiet and talk rationally
I would be quiet if he liked, and as to talking rationally, I flattered myself I was doing that now
Very good
you may fume and fidget as you please: but this is the best plan to pursue with you, I am certain. I like you more than I can say; but I'll not sink into a bathos of sentiment: and with this needle of repartee I'll keep you from the edge of the gulf too; and, moreover, maintain by its pungent aid that distance between you and myself most conducive to our real mutual advantage
I wish you good-night, sir
provoking puppet
sprite
I can keep you in reasonable check now
and I don't doubt to be able to do it hereafter: if one expedient loses its virtue, another must be devised
Mrs. Rochester, -- Hotel, London
I will leave you by yourself, white dream
I am feverish: I hear the wind blowing: I will go out of doors and feel it
You did right to hold fast to each other
I think, scathed as you look, and charred and scorched, there must be a little sense of life in you yet, rising out of that adhesion at the faithful, honest roots: you will never have green leaves more -- never more see birds making nests and singing idyls in your boughs; the time of pleasure and love is over with you: but you are not desolate: each of you has a comrade to sympathise with him in his decay
How late it grows
I will run down to the gates: it is moonlight at intervals; I can see a good way on the road. He may be coming now, and to meet him will save some minutes of suspense
I wish he would come! I wish he would come
Well, I cannot return to the house
I cannot sit by the fireside, while he is abroad in inclement weather: better tire my limbs than strain my heart; I will go forward and meet him
There
You can't do without me, that is evident. Step on my boot-toe; give me both hands: mount
But is there anything the matter, Janet, that you come to meet me at such an hour? Is there anything wrong
No, but I thought you would never come. I could not bear to wait in the house for you, especially with this rain and wind
Rain and wind, indeed! Yes, you are dripping like a mermaid; pull my cloak round you: but I think you are feverish, Jane: both your cheek and hand are burning hot. I ask again, is there anything the matter? "Nothing now; I am neither afraid nor unhappy
Then you have been both
Rather: but I'll tell you all about it by-and-bye, sir; and I daresay you will only laugh at me for my pains
I'll laugh at you heartily when to-morrow is past; till then I dare not: my prize is not certain. This is you, who have been as slippery as an eel this last month, and as thorny as a briar-rose? I could not lay a finger anywhere but I was pricked; and now I seem to have gathered up a stray lamb in my arms. You wandered out of the fold to seek your shepherd, did you, Jane
I wanted you: but don't boast. Here we are at Thornfield: now let me get down
Take a seat and bear me company, Jane: please God, it is the last meal but one you will eat at Thornfield Hall for a long time
Is it because you have the prospect of a journey before you, Jane? Is it the thoughts of going to London that takes away your appetite
I cannot see my prospects clearly to-night, sir; and I hardly know what thoughts I have in my head. Everything in life seems unreal
Except me: I am substantial enough -- touch me
You, sir, are the most phantom-like of all: you are a mere dream
Is that a dream
Yes; though I touch it, it is a dream
Sir, have you finished supper
Yes, Jane
It is near midnight
Yes: but remember, Jane, you promised to wake with me the night before my wedding
I did; and I will keep my promise, for an hour or two at least: I have no wish to go to bed
Are all your arrangements complete
All, sir
And on my part likewise
I have settled everything; and we shall leave Thornfield to-morrow, within half-an-hour after our return from church
Very well, sir
With what an extraordinary smile you uttered that word -- 'very well,' Jane! What a bright spot of colour you have on each cheek! and how strangely your eyes glitter! Are you well
I believe I am
Believe! What is the matter? Tell me what you feel
I could not, sir: no words could tell you what I feel. I wish this present hour would never end: who knows with what fate the next may come charged
This is hypochondria, Jane. You have been over-excited, or over-fatigued
Do you, sir, feel calm and happy
Calm? -- no: but happy -- to the heart's core
Give me your confidence, Jane
relieve your mind of any weight that oppresses it, by imparting it to me. What do you fear?- -that I shall not prove a good husband
It is the idea farthest from my thoughts
Are you apprehensive of the new sphere you are about to enter? -- of the new life into which you are passing
No
You puzzle me, Jane: your look and tone of sorrowful audacity perplex and pain me. I want an explanation
Then, sir, listen. You were from home last night
I was: I know that; and you hinted a while ago at something which had happened in my absence:- nothing, probably, of consequence; but, in short, it has disturbed you. Let me hear it. Mrs. Fairfax has said something, perhaps? or you have overheard the servants talk? -- your sensitive self-respect has been wounded
No, sir
All day yesterday I was very busy, and very happy in my ceaseless bustle; for I am not, as you seem to think, troubled by any haunting fears about the new sphere, et cetera: I think it a glorious thing to have the hope of living with you, because I love you. No, sir, don't caress me now -- let me talk undisturbed. Yesterday I trusted well in Providence, and believed that events were working together for your good and mine: it was a fine day, if you recollect -- the calmness of the air and sky forbade apprehensions respecting your safety or comfort on your journey. I walked a little while on the pavement after tea, thinking of you; and I beheld you in imagination so near me, I scarcely missed your actual presence. I thought of the life that lay before me -- YOUR life, sir -- an existence more expansive and stirring than my own: as much more so as the depths of the sea to which the brook runs are than the shallows of its own strait channel. I wondered why moralists call this world a dreary wilderness: for me it blossomed like a rose. Just at sunset, the air turned cold and the sky cloudy: I went in, Sophie called me upstairs to look at my wedding-dress, which they had just brought; and under it in the box I found your present -- the veil which, in your princely extravagance, you sent for from London: resolved, I suppose, since I would not have jewels, to cheat me into accepting something as costly. I smiled as I unfolded it, and devised how I would tease you about your aristocratic tastes, and your efforts to masque your plebeian bride in the attributes of a peeress. I though how I would carry down to you the square of unembroidered blond I had myself prepared as a covering for my low-born head, and ask if that was not good enough for a woman who could bring her husband neither fortune, beauty, nor connections. I saw plainly how you would look; and heard your impetuous republican answers, and your haughty disavowal of any necessity on your part to augment your wealth, or elevate your standing, by marrying either a purse or a coronet
How well you read me, you witch
but what did you find in the veil besides its embroidery? Did you find poison, or a dagger, that you look so mournful now
No, no, sir; besides the delicacy and richness of the fabric, I found nothing save Fairfax Rochester's pride; and that did not scare me, because I am used to the sight of the demon. But, sir, as it grew dark, the wind rose: it blew yesterday evening, not as it blows now -- wild and high -- but 'with a sullen, moaning sound' far more eerie. I wished you were at home. I came into this room, and the sight of the empty chair and fireless hearth chilled me. For some time after I went to bed, I could not sleep -- a sense of anxious excitement distressed me. The gale still rising, seemed to my ear to muffle a mournful under-sound; whether in the house or abroad I could not at first tell, but it recurred, doubtful yet doleful at every lull; at last I made out it must be some dog howling at a distance. I was glad when it ceased. On sleeping, I continued in dreams the idea of a dark and gusty night. I continued also the wish to be with you, and experienced a strange, regretful consciousness of some barrier dividing us. During all my first sleep, I was following the windings of an unknown road; total obscurity environed me; rain pelted me; I was burdened with the charge of a little child: a very small creature, too young and feeble to walk, and which shivered in my cold arms, and wailed piteously in my ear. I thought, sir, that you were on the road a long way before me; and I strained every nerve to overtake you, and made effort on effort to utter your name and entreat you to stop -- but my movements were fettered, and my voice still died away inarticulate; while you, I felt, withdrew farther and farther every moment
And these dreams weigh on your spirits now, Jane, when I am close to you? Little nervous subject! Forget visionary woe, and think only of real happiness! You say you love me, Janet: yes -- I will not forget that; and you cannot deny it. THOSE words did not die inarticulate on your lips. I heard them clear and soft: a thought too solemn perhaps, but sweet as music -- 'I think it is a glorious thing to have the hope of living with you, Edward, because I love you.' Do you love me, Jane? -- repeat it
I do, sir -- I do, with my whole heart
Well
it is strange; but that sentence has penetrated my breast painfully. Why? I think because you said it with such an earnest, religious energy, and because your upward gaze at me now is the very sublime of faith, truth, and devotion: it is too much as if some spirit were near me. Look wicked, Jane: as you know well how to look: coin one of your wild, shy, provoking smiles; tell me you hate me -- tease me, vex me; do anything but move me: I would rather be incensed than saddened
I will tease you and vex you to your heart's content, when I have finished my tale: but hear me to the end
I thought, Jane, you had told me all. I thought I had found the source of your melancholy in a dream
What! is there more? But I will not believe it to be anything important. I warn you of incredulity beforehand. Go on
I dreamt another dream, sir: that Thornfield Hall was a dreary ruin, the retreat of bats and owls. I thought that of all the stately front nothing remained but a shell-like wall, very high and very fragile-looking. I wandered, on a moonlight night, through the grass-grown enclosure within: here I stumbled over a marble hearth, and there over a fallen fragment of cornice. Wrapped up in a shawl, I still carried the unknown little child: I might not lay it down anywhere, however tired were my arms -- however much its weight impeded my progress, I must retain it. I heard the gallop of a horse at a distance on the road; I was sure it was you; and you were departing for many years and for a distant country. I climbed the thin wall with frantic perilous haste, eager to catch one glimpse of you from the top: the stones rolled from under my feet, the ivy branches I grasped gave way, the child clung round my neck in terror, and almost strangled me; at last I gained the summit. I saw you like a speck on a white track, lessening every moment. The blast blew so strong I could not stand. I sat down on the narrow ledge; I hushed the scared infant in my lap: you turned an angle of the road: I bent forward to take a last look; the wall crumbled; I was shaken; the child rolled from my knee, I lost my balance, fell, and woke
Now, Jane, that is all
All the preface, sir; the tale is yet to come. On waking, a gleam dazzled my eyes; I thought -- Oh, it is daylight! But I was mistaken; it was only candlelight. Sophie, I supposed, had come in. There was a light in the dressing-table, and the door of the closet, where, before going to bed, I had hung my wedding-dress and veil, stood open; I heard a rustling there. I asked, 'Sophie, what are you doing?' No one answered; but a form emerged from the closet; it took the light, held it aloft, and surveyed the garments pendent from the portmanteau. 'Sophie! Sophie!' I again cried: and still it was silent. I had risen up in bed, I bent forward: first surprise, then bewilderment, came over me; and then my blood crept cold through my veins. Mr. Rochester, this was not Sophie, it was not Leah, it was not Mrs. Fairfax: it was not -- no, I was sure of it, and am still -- it was not even that strange woman, Grace Poole
It must have been one of them
No, sir, I solemnly assure you to the contrary. The shape standing before me had never crossed my eyes within the precincts of Thornfield Hall before; the height, the contour were new to me
Describe it, Jane
It seemed, sir, a woman, tall and large, with thick and dark hair hanging long down her back. I know not what dress she had on: it was white and straight; but whether gown, sheet, or shroud, I cannot tell
Did you see her face
Not at first. But presently she took my veil from its place; she held it up, gazed at it long, and then she threw it over her own head, and turned to the mirror. At that moment I saw the reflection of the visage and features quite distinctly in the dark oblong glass
And how were they
Fearful and ghastly to me -- oh, sir, I never saw a face like it! It was a discoloured face -- it was a savage face. I wish I could forget the roll of the red eyes and the fearful blackened inflation of the lineaments
Ghosts are usually pale, Jane
This, sir, was purple: the lips were swelled and dark; the brow furrowed: the black eyebrows widely raised over the bloodshot eyes. Shall I tell you of what it reminded me
You may
Of the foul German spectre -- the Vampyre
Ah! -- what did it do
Sir, it removed my veil from its gaunt head, rent it in two parts, and flinging both on the floor, trampled on them
Afterwards
It drew aside the window-curtain and looked out; perhaps it saw dawn approaching, for, taking the candle, it retreated to the door. Just at my bedside, the figure stopped: the fiery eyes glared upon me -- she thrust up her candle close to my face, and extinguished it under my eyes. I was aware her lurid visage flamed over mine, and I lost consciousness: for the second time in my life -- only the second time -- I became insensible from terror
Who was with you when you revived
No one, sir, but the broad day. I rose, bathed my head and face in water, drank a long draught; felt that though enfeebled I was not ill, and determined that to none but you would I impart this vision. Now, sir, tell me who and what that woman was
The creature of an over-stimulated brain; that is certain. I must be careful of you, my treasure: nerves like yours were not made for rough handling
Sir, depend on it, my nerves were not in fault; the thing was real: the transaction actually took place
And your previous dreams, were they real too? Is Thornfield Hall a ruin? Am I severed from you by insuperable obstacles? Am I leaving you without a tear -- without a kiss -- without a word
Not yet
Am I about to do it? Why, the day is already commenced which is to bind us indissolubly; and when we are once united, there shall be no recurrence of these mental terrors: I guarantee that
Mental terrors, sir! I wish I could believe them to be only such: I wish it more now than ever; since even you cannot explain to me the mystery of that awful visitant
And since I cannot do it, Jane, it must have been unreal
But, sir, when I said so to myself on rising this morning, and when I looked round the room to gather courage and comfort from the cheerful aspect of each familiar object in full daylight, there -- on the carpet -- I saw what gave the distinct lie to my hypothesis, -- the veil, torn from top to bottom in two halves
Thank God
that if anything malignant did come near you last night, it was only the veil that was harmed. Oh, to think what might have happened
Now, Janet, I'll explain to you all about it. It was half dream, half reality. A woman did, I doubt not, enter your room: and that woman was -- must have been -- Grace Poole. You call her a strange being yourself: from all you know, you have reason so to call her -- what did she do to me? what to Mason? In a state between sleeping and waking, you noticed her entrance and her actions; but feverish, almost delirious as you were, you ascribed to her a goblin appearance different from her own: the long dishevelled hair, the swelled black face, the exaggerated stature, were figments of imagination; results of nightmare: the spiteful tearing of the veil was real: and it is like her. I see you would ask why I keep such a woman in my house: when we have been married a year and a day, I will tell you; but not now. Are you satisfied, Jane? Do you accept my solution of the mystery
Does not Sophie sleep with Adele in the nursery
Yes, sir
And there is room enough in Adele's little bed for you. You must share it with her to-night, Jane: it is no wonder that the incident you have related should make you nervous, and I would rather you did not sleep alone: promise me to go to the nursery
I shall be very glad to do so, sir
it is a lovely night
Well
how is my Janet now
The night is serene, sir; and so am I
And you will not dream of separation and sorrow to-night; but of happy love and blissful union
Stop
Look at yourself in the mirror: you have not taken one peep
Jane
Lingerer
my brain is on fire with impatience, and you tarry so long
fair as a lily, and not only the pride of his life, but the desire of his eyes
Is John getting the carriage ready
Yes, sir
Is the luggage brought down
They are bringing it down, sir
Go you to the church: see if Mr. Wood (the clergyman) and the clerk are there: return and tell me
Mr. Wood is in the vestry, sir, putting on his surplice
And the carriage
The horses are harnessing
We shall not want it to go to church; but it must be ready the moment we return: all the boxes and luggage arranged and strapped on, and the coachman in his seat
Yes, sir
Jane, are you ready
Am I cruel in my love
Delay an instant: lean on me, Jane
I require and charge you both (as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgment, when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed), that if either of you know any impediment why ye may not lawfully be joined together in matrimony, ye do now confess it; for be ye well assured that so many as are coupled together otherwise than God's Word doth allow, are not joined together by God, neither is their matrimony lawful
Wilt thou have this woman for thy wedded wife
The marriage cannot go on: I declare the existence of an impediment
Proceed
I cannot proceed without some investigation into what has been asserted, and evidence of its truth or falsehood
The ceremony is quite broken off
I am in a condition to prove my allegation: an insuperable impediment to this marriage exists
What is the nature of the impediment
Perhaps it may be got over -- explained away
Hardly
I have called it insuperable, and I speak advisedly
It simply consists in the existence of a previous marriage. Mr. Rochester has a wife now living
Who are you
My name is Briggs, a solicitor of -- Street, London
And you would thrust on me a wife
I would remind you of your lady's existence, sir, which the law recognises, if you do not
Favour me with an account of her -- with her name, her parentage, her place of abode
Certainly
I affirm and can prove that on the 20th of October A.D. -- (a date of fifteen years back), Edward Fairfax Rochester, of Thornfield Hall, in the county of -, and of Ferndean Manor, in -shire, England, was married to my sister, Bertha Antoinetta Mason, daughter of Jonas Mason, merchant, and of Antoinetta his wife, a Creole, at -- church, Spanish Town, Jamaica. The record of the marriage will be found in the register of that church -- a copy of it is now in my possession. Signed, Richard Mason
That -- if a genuine document -- may prove I have been married, but it does not prove that the woman mentioned therein as my wife is still living
She was living three months ago
How do you know
I have a witness to the fact, whose testimony even you, sir, will scarcely controvert
Produce him -- or go to hell
I will produce him first -- he is on the spot. Mr. Mason, have the goodness to step forward
Good God
What have YOU to say
The devil is in it if you cannot answer distinctly. I again demand, what have you to say
Sir -- sir
do not forget you are in a sacred place
Are you aware, sir, whether or not this gentleman's wife is still living
Courage
speak out
She is now living at Thornfield Hall
I saw her there last April. I am her brother
At Thornfield Hall
Impossible! I am an old resident in this neighbourhood, sir, and I never heard of a Mrs. Rochester at Thornfield Hall
No, by God! I took care that none should hear of it -- or of her under that name
Enough! all shall bolt out at once, like the bullet from the barrel. Wood, close your book and take off your surplice; John Green (to the clerk), leave the church: there will be no wedding to-day
Bigamy is an ugly word! -- I meant, however, to be a bigamist; but fate has out- manoeuvred me, or Providence has checked me, -- perhaps the last. I am little better than a devil at this moment; and, as my pastor there would tell me, deserve no doubt the sternest judgments of God, even to the quenchless fire and deathless worm. Gentlemen, my plan is broken up:- what this lawyer and his client say is true: I have been married, and the woman to whom I was married lives! You say you never heard of a Mrs. Rochester at the house up yonder, Wood; but I daresay you have many a time inclined your ear to gossip about the mysterious lunatic kept there under watch and ward. Some have whispered to you that she is my bastard half-sister: some, my cast-off mistress. I now inform you that she is my wife, whom I married fifteen years ago, -- Bertha Mason by name; sister of this resolute personage, who is now, with his quivering limbs and white cheeks, showing you what a stout heart men may bear. Cheer up, Dick! -- never fear me! -- I'd almost as soon strike a woman as you. Bertha Mason is mad; and she came of a mad family; idiots and maniacs through three generations! Her mother, the Creole, was both a madwoman and a drunkard! -- as I found out after I had wed the daughter: for they were silent on family secrets before. Bertha, like a dutiful child, copied her parent in both points. I had a charming partner -- pure, wise, modest: you can fancy I was a happy man. I went through rich scenes! Oh! my experience has been heavenly, if you only knew it! But I owe you no further explanation. Briggs, Wood, Mason, I invite you all to come up to the house and visit Mrs. Poole's patient, and MY WIFE! You shall see what sort of a being I was cheated into espousing, and judge whether or not I had a right to break the compact, and seek sympathy with something at least human. This girl
knew no more than you, Wood, of the disgusting secret: she thought all was fair and legal and never dreamt she was going to be entrapped into a feigned union with a defrauded wretch, already bound to a bad, mad, and embruted partner! Come all of you -- follow
Take it back to the coach-house, John
it will not be wanted to-day
To the right-about -- every soul
away with your congratulations! Who wants them? Not I! -- they are fifteen years too late
You know this place, Mason
she bit and stabbed you here
Good-morrow, Mrs. Poole
How are you? and how is your charge to-day
We're tolerable, sir, I thank you
rather snappish, but not 'rageous
Ah! sir, she sees you
you'd better not stay
Only a few moments, Grace: you must allow me a few moments
Take care then, sir! -- for God's sake, take care
Keep out of the way
she has no knife now, I suppose, and I'm on my guard
One never knows what she has, sir: she is so cunning: it is not in mortal discretion to fathom her craft
We had better leave her
Go to the devil
Ware
That is MY WIFE
this young girl, who stands so grave and quiet at the mouth of hell, looking collectedly at the gambols of a demon, I wanted her just as a change after that fierce ragout. Wood and Briggs, look at the difference! Compare these clear eyes with the red balls yonder -- this face with that mask -- this form with that bulk; then judge me, priest of the gospel and man of the law, and remember with what judgment ye judge ye shall be judged! Off with you now. I must shut up my prize
You, madam
are cleared from all blame: your uncle will be glad to hear it -- if, indeed, he should be still living -- when Mr. Mason returns to Madeira
My uncle! What of him? Do you know him
Mr. Mason does. Mr. Eyre has been the Funchal correspondent of his house for some years. When your uncle received your letter intimating the contemplated union between yourself and Mr. Rochester, Mr. Mason, who was staying at Madeira to recruit his health, on his way back to Jamaica, happened to be with him. Mr. Eyre mentioned the intelligence; for he knew that my client here was acquainted with a gentleman of the name of Rochester. Mr. Mason, astonished and distressed as you may suppose, revealed the real state of matters. Your uncle, I am sorry to say, is now on a sick bed; from which, considering the nature of his disease -- decline -- and the stage it has reached, it is unlikely he will ever rise. He could not then hasten to England himself, to extricate you from the snare into which you had fallen, but he implored Mr. Mason to lose no time in taking steps to prevent the false marriage. He referred him to me for assistance. I used all despatch, and am thankful I was not too late: as you, doubtless, must be also. Were I not morally certain that your uncle will be dead ere you reach Madeira, I would advise you to accompany Mr. Mason back; but as it is, I think you had better remain in England till you can hear further, either from or of Mr. Eyre. Have we anything else to stay for
No, no -- let us be gone
Be not far from me, for trouble is near: there is none to help
the waters came into my soul; I sank in deep mire: I felt no standing; I came into deep waters; the floods overflowed me
What am I to do
Leave Thornfield at once
That I am not Edward Rochester's bride is the least part of my woe
that I have wakened out of most glorious dreams, and found them all void and vain, is a horror I could bear and master; but that I must leave him decidedly, instantly, entirely, is intolerable. I cannot do it
Let me be torn away
Let another help me
No; you shall tear yourself away, none shall help you: you shall yourself pluck out your right eye; yourself cut off your right hand: your heart shall be the victim, and you the priest to transfix it
Friends always forget those whom fortune forsakes
You come out at last
Well, I have been waiting for you long, and listening: yet not one movement have I heard, nor one sob: five minutes more of that death-like hush, and I should have forced the lock like a burglar. So you shun me? -- you shut yourself up and grieve alone! I would rather you had come and upbraided me with vehemence. You are passionate. I expected a scene of some kind. I was prepared for the hot rain of tears; only I wanted them to be shed on my breast: now a senseless floor has received them, or your drenched handkerchief. But I err: you have not wept at all! I see a white cheek and a faded eye, but no trace of tears. I suppose, then, your heart has been weeping blood
Well, Jane! not a word of reproach? Nothing bitter -- nothing poignant? Nothing to cut a feeling or sting a passion? You sit quietly where I have placed you, and regard me with a weary, passive look
Jane, I never meant to wound you thus. If the man who had but one little ewe lamb that was dear to him as a daughter, that ate of his bread and drank of his cup, and lay in his bosom, had by some mistake slaughtered it at the shambles, he would not have rued his bloody blunder more than I now rue mine. Will you ever forgive me
You know I am a scoundrel, Jane
Yes, sir
Then tell me so roundly and sharply -- don't spare me
I cannot: I am tired and sick. I want some water
If I could go out of life now, without too sharp a pang, it would be well for me
then I should not have to make the effort of cracking my heart-strings in rending them from among Mr. Rochester's. I must leave him, it appears. I do not want to leave him -- I cannot leave him
How are you now, Jane
Much better, sir; I shall be well soon
Taste the wine again, Jane
What! -- How is this
Oh, I know! you won't kiss the husband of Bertha Mason? You consider my arms filled and my embraces appropriated
At any rate, there is neither room nor claim for me, sir
Why, Jane? I will spare you the trouble of much talking; I will answer for you -- Because I have a wife already, you would reply. -- I guess rightly
Yes
If you think so, you must have a strange opinion of me; you must regard me as a plotting profligate -- a base and low rake who has been simulating disinterested love in order to draw you into a snare deliberately laid, and strip you of honour and rob you of self- respect. What do you say to that? I see you can say nothing in the first place, you are faint still, and have enough to do to draw your breath; in the second place, you cannot yet accustom yourself to accuse and revile me, and besides, the flood-gates of tears are opened, and they would rush out if you spoke much; and you have no desire to expostulate, to upbraid, to make a scene: you are thinking how TO ACT -- TALKING you consider is of no use. I know you -- I am on my guard
Sir, I do not wish to act against you
Not in your sense of the word, but in mine you are scheming to destroy me. You have as good as said that I am a married man -- as a married man you will shun me, keep out of my way: just now you have refused to kiss me. You intend to make yourself a complete stranger to me: to live under this roof only as Adele's governess; if ever I say a friendly word to you, if ever a friendly feeling inclines you again to me, you will say, -- 'That man had nearly made me his mistress: I must be ice and rock to him;' and ice and rock you will accordingly become
All is changed about me, sir; I must change too -- there is no doubt of that; and to avoid fluctuations of feeling, and continual combats with recollections and associations, there is only one way -- Adele must have a new governess, sir
Sir
you are inexorable for that unfortunate lady: you speak of her with hate -- with vindictive antipathy. It is cruel -- she cannot help being mad
Jane, my little darling (so I will call you, for so you are), you don't know what you are talking about; you misjudge me again: it is not because she is mad I hate her. If you were mad, do you think I should hate you
I do indeed, sir
Then you are mistaken, and you know nothing about me, and nothing about the sort of love of which I am capable. Every atom of your flesh is as dear to me as my own: in pain and sickness it would still be dear. Your mind is my treasure, and if it were broken, it would be my treasure still: if you raved, my arms should confine you, and not a strait waistcoat -- your grasp, even in fury, would have a charm for me: if you flew at me as wildly as that woman did this morning, I should receive you in an embrace, at least as fond as it would be restrictive. I should not shrink from you with disgust as I did from her: in your quiet moments you should have no watcher and no nurse but me; and I could hang over you with untiring tenderness, though you gave me no smile in return; and never weary of gazing into your eyes, though they had no longer a ray of recognition for me. -- But why do I follow that train of ideas? I was talking of removing you from Thornfield. All, you know, is prepared for prompt departure: to-morrow you shall go. I only ask you to endure one more night under this roof, Jane; and then, farewell to its miseries and terrors for ever! I have a place to repair to, which will be a secure sanctuary from hateful reminiscences, from unwelcome intrusion -- even from falsehood and slander
And take Adele with you, sir
she will be a companion for you
What do you mean, Jane? I told you I would send Adele to school; and what do I want with a child for a companion, and not my own child, -- a French dancer's bastard? Why do you importune me about her! I say, why do you assign Adele to me for a companion
You spoke of a retirement, sir; and retirement and solitude are dull: too dull for you
Solitude! solitude
I see I must come to an explanation. I don't know what sphynx-like expression is forming in your countenance. You are to share my solitude. Do you understand
Now for the hitch in Jane's character
The reel of silk has run smoothly enough so far; but I always knew there would come a knot and a puzzle: here it is. Now for vexation, and exasperation, and endless trouble! By God! I long to exert a fraction of Samson's strength, and break the entanglement like tow
Jane! will you hear reason
because, if you won't, I'll try violence
Sit down; I'll talk to you as long as you like, and hear all you have to say, whether reasonable or unreasonable
But I am not angry, Jane: I only love you too well; and you had steeled your little pale face with such a resolute, frozen look, I could not endure it. Hush, now, and wipe your eyes
Jane! Jane
you don't love me, then? It was only my station, and the rank of my wife, that you valued? Now that you think me disqualified to become your husband, you recoil from my touch as if I were some toad or ape
I DO love you
more than ever: but I must not show or indulge the feeling: and this is the last time I must express it
The last time, Jane! What! do you think you can live with me, and see me daily, and yet, if you still love me, be always cold and distant
No, sir; that I am certain I could not; and therefore I see there is but one way: but you will be furious if I mention it
Oh, mention it! If I storm, you have the art of weeping
Mr. Rochester, I must leave you
For how long, Jane? For a few minutes, while you smooth your hair -- which is somewhat dishevelled; and bathe your face -- which looks feverish
I must leave Adele and Thornfield. I must part with you for my whole life: I must begin a new existence among strange faces and strange scenes
Of course: I told you you should. I pass over the madness about parting from me. You mean you must become a part of me. As to the new existence, it is all right: you shall yet be my wife: I am not married. You shall be Mrs. Rochester -- both virtually and nominally. I shall keep only to you so long as you and I live. You shall go to a place I have in the south of France: a whitewashed villa on the shores of the Mediterranean. There you shall live a happy, and guarded, and most innocent life. Never fear that I wish to lure you into error -- to make you my mistress. Why did you shake your head? Jane, you must be reasonable, or in truth I shall again become frantic
Sir, your wife is living: that is a fact acknowledged this morning by yourself. If I lived with you as you desire, I should then be your mistress: to say otherwise is sophistical -- is false
Jane, I am not a gentle-tempered man -- you forget that: I am not long-enduring; I am not cool and dispassionate. Out of pity to me and yourself, put your finger on my pulse, feel how it throbs, and -- beware
God help me
I am a fool
I keep telling her I am not married, and do not explain to her why. I forget she knows nothing of the character of that woman, or of the circumstances attending my infernal union with her. Oh, I am certain Jane will agree with me in opinion, when she knows all that I know! Just put your hand in mine, Janet -- that I may have the evidence of touch as well as sight, to prove you are near me -- and I will in a few words show you the real state of the case. Can you listen to me
Yes, sir; for hours if you will
I ask only minutes. Jane, did you ever hear or know that I was not the eldest son of my house: that I had once a brother older than I
I remember Mrs. Fairfax told me so once
And did you ever hear that my father was an avaricious, grasping man
I have understood something to that effect
Well, Jane, being so, it was his resolution to keep the property together; he could not bear the idea of dividing his estate and leaving me a fair portion: all, he resolved, should go to my brother, Rowland. Yet as little could he endure that a son of his should be a poor man. I must be provided for by a wealthy marriage. He sought me a partner betimes. Mr. Mason, a West India planter and merchant, was his old acquaintance. He was certain his possessions were real and vast: he made inquiries. Mr. Mason, he found, had a son and daughter; and he learned from him that he could and would give the latter a fortune of thirty thousand pounds: that sufficed. When I left college, I was sent out to Jamaica, to espouse a bride already courted for me. My father said nothing about her money; but he told me Miss Mason was the boast of Spanish Town for her beauty: and this was no lie. I found her a fine woman, in the style of Blanche Ingram: tall, dark, and majestic. Her family wished to secure me because I was of a good race; and so did she. They showed her to me in parties, splendidly dressed. I seldom saw her alone, and had very little private conversation with her. She flattered me, and lavishly displayed for my pleasure her charms and accomplishments. All the men in her circle seemed to admire her and envy me. I was dazzled, stimulated: my senses were excited; and being ignorant, raw, and inexperienced, I thought I loved her. There is no folly so besotted that the idiotic rivalries of society, the prurience, the rashness, the blindness of youth, will not hurry a man to its commission. Her relatives encouraged me; competitors piqued me; she allured me: a marriage was achieved almost before I knew where I was. Oh, I have no respect for myself when I think of that act! -- an agony of inward contempt masters me. I never loved, I never esteemed, I did not even know her. I was not sure of the existence of one virtue in her nature: I had marked neither modesty, nor benevolence, nor candour, nor refinement in her mind or manners -- and, I married her:- gross, grovelling, mole-eyed blockhead that I was! With less sin I might have -- But let me remember to whom I am speaking
My bride's mother I had never seen: I understood she was dead. The honeymoon over, I learned my mistake; she was only mad, and shut up in a lunatic asylum. There was a younger brother, too -- a complete dumb idiot. The elder one, whom you have seen (and whom I cannot hate, whilst I abhor all his kindred, because he has some grains of affection in his feeble mind, shown in the continued interest he takes in his wretched sister, and also in a dog-like attachment he once bore me), will probably be in the same state one day. My father and my brother Rowland knew all this; but they thought only of the thirty thousand pounds, and joined in the plot against me
These were vile discoveries; but except for the treachery of concealment, I should have made them no subject of reproach to my wife, even when I found her nature wholly alien to mine, her tastes obnoxious to me, her cast of mind common, low, narrow, and singularly incapable of being led to anything higher, expanded to anything larger -- when I found that I could not pass a single evening, nor even a single hour of the day with her in comfort; that kindly conversation could not be sustained between us, because whatever topic I started, immediately received from her a turn at once coarse and trite, perverse and imbecile -- when I perceived that I should never have a quiet or settled household, because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her violent and unreasonable temper, or the vexations of her absurd, contradictory, exacting orders -- even then I restrained myself: I eschewed upbraiding, I curtailed remonstrance; I tried to devour my repentance and disgust in secret; I repressed the deep antipathy I felt. "Jane, I will not trouble you with abominable details: some strong words shall express what I have to say. I lived with that woman upstairs four years, and before that time she had tried me indeed: her character ripened and developed with frightful rapidity; her vices sprang up fast and rank: they were so strong, only cruelty could check them, and I would not use cruelty. What a pigmy intellect she had, and what giant propensities! How fearful were the curses those propensities entailed on me! Bertha Mason, the true daughter of an infamous mother, dragged me through all the hideous and degrading agonies which must attend a man bound to a wife at once intemperate and unchaste. 

"My brother in the interval was dead, and at the end of the four years my father died too. I was rich enough now -- yet poor to hideous indigence: a nature the most gross, impure, depraved I ever saw, was associated with mine, and called by the law and by society a part of me. And I could not rid myself of it by any legal proceedings: for the doctors now discovered that MY WIFE was mad -- her excesses had prematurely developed the germs of insanity. Jane, you don't like my narrative; you look almost sick -- shall I defer the rest to another day
No, sir, finish it now; I pity you -- I do earnestly pity you
Pity, Jane, from some people is a noxious and insulting sort of tribute, which one is justified in hurling back in the teeth of those who offer it; but that is the sort of pity native to callous, selfish hearts; it is a hybrid, egotistical pain at hearing of woes, crossed with ignorant contempt for those who have endured them. But that is not your pity, Jane; it is not the feeling of which your whole face is full at this moment -- with which your eyes are now almost overflowing -- with which your heart is heaving -- with which your hand is trembling in mine. Your pity, my darling, is the suffering mother of love: its anguish is the very natal pang of the divine passion. I accept it, Jane; let the daughter have free advent -- my arms wait to receive her
Now, sir, proceed; what did you do when you found she was mad
Jane, I approached the verge of despair; a remnant of self-respect was all that intervened between me and the gulf. In the eyes of the world, I was doubtless covered with grimy dishonour; but I resolved to be clean in my own sight -- and to the last I repudiated the contamination of her crimes, and wrenched myself from connection with her mental defects. Still, society associated my name and person with hers; I yet saw her and heard her daily: something of her breath (faugh!) mixed with the air I breathed; and besides, I remembered I had once been her husband -- that recollection was then, and is now, inexpressibly odious to me; moreover, I knew that while she lived I could never be the husband of another and better wife; and, though five years my senior (her family and her father had lied to me even in the particular of her age), she was likely to live as long as I, being as robust in frame as she was infirm in mind. Thus, at the age of twenty-six, I was hopeless. "One night I had been awakened by her yells -- (since the medical men had pronounced her mad, she had, of course, been shut up) -- it was a fiery West Indian night; one of the description that frequently precede the hurricanes of those climates. Being unable to sleep in bed, I got up and opened the window. The air was like sulphur-steams -- I could find no refreshment anywhere. Mosquitoes came buzzing in and hummed sullenly round the room; the sea, which I could hear from thence, rumbled dull like an earthquake -- black clouds were casting up over it; the moon was setting in the waves, broad and red, like a hot cannon-ball -- she threw her last bloody glance over a world quivering with the ferment of tempest. I was physically influenced by the atmosphere and scene, and my ears were filled with the curses the maniac still shrieked out; wherein she momentarily mingled my name with such a tone of demon-hate, with such language! -- no professed harlot ever had a fouler vocabulary than she: though two rooms off, I heard every word -- the thin partitions of the West India house opposing but slight obstruction to her wolfish cries. 

"'This life,' said I at last, 'is hell: this is the air -- those are the sounds of the bottomless pit! I have a right to deliver myself from it if I can. The sufferings of this mortal state will leave me with the heavy flesh that now cumbers my soul. Of the fanatic's burning eternity I have no fear: there is not a future state worse than this present one -- let me break away, and go home to God!' 

"I said this whilst I knelt down at, and unlocked a trunk which contained a brace of loaded pistols: I mean to shoot myself. I only entertained the intention for a moment; for, not being insane, the crisis of exquisite and unalloyed despair, which had originated the wish and design of self-destruction, was past in a second. 

"A wind fresh from Europe blew over the ocean and rushed through the open casement: the storm broke, streamed, thundered, blazed, and the air grew pure. I then framed and fixed a resolution. While I walked under the dripping orange-trees of my wet garden, and amongst its drenched pomegranates and pine-apples, and while the refulgent dawn of the tropics kindled round me -- I reasoned thus, Jane -- and now listen; for it was true Wisdom that consoled me in that hour, and showed me the right path to follow. 

"The sweet wind from Europe was still whispering in the refreshed leaves, and the Atlantic was thundering in glorious liberty; my heart, dried up and scorched for a long time, swelled to the tone, and filled with living blood -- my being longed for renewal -- my soul thirsted for a pure draught. I saw hope revive -- and felt regeneration possible. From a flowery arch at the bottom of my garden I gazed over the sea -- bluer than the sky: the old world was beyond; clear prospects opened thus:- 

"'Go, ' said Hope, 'and live again in Europe: there it is not known what a sullied name you bear, nor what a filthy burden is bound to you. You may take the maniac with you to England; confine her with due attendance and precautions at Thornfield: then travel yourself to what clime you will, and form what new tie you like. That woman, who has so abused your long-suffering, so sullied your name, so outraged your honour, so blighted your youth, is not your wife, nor are you her husband. See that she is cared for as her condition demands, and you have done all that God and humanity require of you. Let her identity, her connection with yourself, be buried in oblivion: you are bound to impart them to no living being. Place her in safety and comfort: shelter her degradation with secrecy, and leave her.' 

"I acted precisely on this suggestion. My father and brother had not made my marriage known to their acquaintance; because, in the very first letter I wrote to apprise them of the union -- having already begun to experience extreme disgust of its consequences, and, from the family character and constitution, seeing a hideous future opening to me -- I added an urgent charge to keep it secret: and very soon the infamous conduct of the wife my father had selected for me was such as to make him blush to own her as his daughter-in-law. Far from desiring to publish the connection, he became as anxious to conceal it as myself. 

"To England, then, I conveyed her; a fearful voyage I had with such a monster in the vessel. Glad was I when I at last got her to Thornfield, and saw her safely lodged in that third-storey room, of whose secret inner cabinet she has now for ten years made a wild beast's den -- a goblin's cell. I had some trouble in finding an attendant for her, as it was necessary to select one on whose fidelity dependence could be placed; for her ravings would inevitably betray my secret: besides, she had lucid intervals of days -- sometimes weeks -- which she filled up with abuse of me. At last I hired Grace Poole from the Grimbsy Retreat. She and the surgeon, Carter (who dressed Mason's wounds that night he was stabbed and worried), are the only two I have ever admitted to my confidence. Mrs. Fairfax may indeed have suspected something, but she could have gained no precise knowledge as to facts. Grace has, on the whole, proved a good keeper; though, owing partly to a fault of her own, of which it appears nothing can cure her, and which is incident to her harassing profession, her vigilance has been more than once lulled and baffled. The lunatic is both cunning and malignant; she has never failed to take advantage of her guardian's temporary lapses; once to secrete the knife with which she stabbed her brother, and twice to possess herself of the key of her cell, and issue therefrom in the night-time. On the first of these occasions, she perpetrated the attempt to burn me in my bed; on the second, she paid that ghastly visit to you. I thank Providence, who watched over you, that she then spent her fury on your wedding apparel, which perhaps brought back vague reminiscences of her own bridal days: but on what might have happened, I cannot endure to reflect. When I think of the thing which flew at my throat this morning, hanging its black and scarlet visage over the nest of my dove, my blood curdles
And what, sir
did you do when you had settled her here? Where did you go
But you could not marry, sir
I had determined and was convinced that I could and ought. It was not my original intention to deceive, as I have deceived you. I meant to tell my tale plainly, and make my proposals openly: and it appeared to me so absolutely rational that I should be considered free to love and be loved, I never doubted some woman might be found willing and able to understand my case and accept me, in spite of the curse with which I was burdened
Well, sir
When you are inquisitive, Jane, you always make me smile. You open your eyes like an eager bird, and make every now and then a restless movement, as if answers in speech did not flow fast enough for you, and you wanted to read the tablet of one's heart. But before I go on, tell me what you mean by your 'Well, sir?' It is a small phrase very frequent with you; and which many a time has drawn me on and on through interminable talk: I don't very well know why
I mean, -- What next? How did you proceed? What came of such an event
Precisely! and what do you wish to know now
Whether you found any one you liked: whether you asked her to marry you; and what she said
I can tell you whether I found any one I liked, and whether I asked her to marry me: but what she said is yet to be recorded in the book of Fate. For ten long years I roved about, living first in one capital, then another: sometimes in St. Petersburg; oftener in Paris; occasionally in Rome, Naples, and Florence. Provided with plenty of money and the passport of an old name, I could choose my own society: no circles were closed against me. I sought my ideal of a woman amongst English ladies, French countesses, Italian signoras, and German grafinnen. I could not find her. Sometimes, for a fleeting moment, I thought I caught a glance, heard a tone, beheld a form, which announced the realisation of my dream: but I was presently undeserved. You are not to suppose that I desired perfection, either of mind or person. I longed only for what suited me -- for the antipodes of the Creole: and I longed vainly. Amongst them all I found not one whom, had I been ever so free, I -- warned as I was of the risks, the horrors, the loathings of incongruous unions -- would have asked to marry me. Disappointment made me reckless. I tried dissipation -- never debauchery: that I hated, and hate. That was my Indian Messalina's attribute: rooted disgust at it and her restrained me much, even in pleasure. Any enjoyment that bordered on riot seemed to approach me to her and her vices, and I eschewed it. "Yet I could not live alone; so I tried the companionship of mistresses. The first I chose was Celine Varens -- another of those steps which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them. You already know what she was, and how my liaison with her terminated. She had two successors: an Italian, Giacinta, and a German, Clara; both considered singularly handsome. What was their beauty to me in a few weeks? Giacinta was unprincipled and violent: I tired of her in three months. Clara was honest and quiet; but heavy, mindless, and unimpressible: not one whit to my taste. I was glad to give her a sufficient sum to set her up in a good line of business, and so get decently rid of her. But, Jane, I see by your face you are not forming a very favourable opinion of me just now. You think me an unfeeling, loose-principled rake: don't you
I don't like you so well as I have done sometimes, indeed, sir. Did it not seem to you in the least wrong to live in that way, first with one mistress and then another? You talk of it as a mere matter of course
It was with me; and I did not like it. It was a grovelling fashion of existence: I should never like to return to it. Hiring a mistress is the next worse thing to buying a slave: both are often by nature, and always by position, inferior: and to live familiarly with inferiors is degrading. I now hate the recollection of the time I passed with Celine, Giacinta, and Clara
Now, Jane, why don't you say 'Well, sir?' I have not done. You are looking grave. You disapprove of me still, I see. But let me come to the point. Last January, rid of all mistresses -- in a harsh, bitter frame of mind, the result of a useless, roving, lonely life -- corroded with disappointment, sourly disposed against all men, and especially against all womankind (for I began to regard the notion of an intellectual, faithful, loving woman as a mere dream), recalled by business, I came back to England. "On a frosty winter afternoon, I rode in sight of Thornfield Hall. Abhorred spot! I expected no peace -- no pleasure there. On a stile in Hay Lane I saw a quiet little figure sitting by itself. I passed it as negligently as I did the pollard willow opposite to it: I had no presentiment of what it would be to me; no inward warning that the arbitress of my life -- my genius for good or evil -- waited there in humble guise. I did not know it, even when, on the occasion of Mesrour's accident, it came up and gravely offered me help. Childish and slender creature! It seemed as if a linnet had hopped to my foot and proposed to bear me on its tiny wing. I was surly; but the thing would not go: it stood by me with strange perseverance, and looked and spoke with a sort of authority. I must be aided, and by that hand: and aided I was. 

"When once I had pressed the frail shoulder, something new -- a fresh sap and sense -- stole into my frame. It was well I had learnt that this elf must return to me -- that it belonged to my house down below -- or I could not have felt it pass away from under my hand, and seen it vanish behind the dim hedge, without singular regret. I heard you come home that night, Jane, though probably you were not aware that I thought of you or watched for you. The next day I observed you -- myself unseen -- for half-an-hour, while you played with Adele in the gallery. It was a snowy day, I recollect, and you could not go out of doors. I was in my room; the door was ajar: I could both listen and watch. Adele claimed your outward attention for a while; yet I fancied your thoughts were elsewhere: but you were very patient with her, my little Jane; you talked to her and amused her a long time. When at last she left you, you lapsed at once into deep reverie: you betook yourself slowly to pace the gallery. Now and then, in passing a casement, you glanced out at the thick-falling snow; you listened to the sobbing wind, and again you paced gently on and dreamed. I think those day visions were not dark: there was a pleasurable illumination in your eye occasionally, a soft excitement in your aspect, which told of no bitter, bilious, hypochondriac brooding: your look revealed rather the sweet musings of youth when its spirit follows on willing wings the flight of Hope up and on to an ideal heaven. The voice of Mrs. Fairfax, speaking to a servant in the hall, wakened you: and how curiously you smiled to and at yourself, Janet! There was much sense in your smile: it was very shrewd, and seemed to make light of your own abstraction. It seemed to say -- 'My fine visions are all very well, but I must not forget they are absolutely unreal. I have a rosy sky and a green flowery Eden in my brain; but without, I am perfectly aware, lies at my feet a rough tract to travel, and around me gather black tempests to encounter.' You ran downstairs and demanded of Mrs. Fairfax some occupation: the weekly house accounts to make up, or something of that sort, I think it was. I was vexed with you for getting out of my sight. 

"Impatiently I waited for evening, when I might summon you to my presence. An unusual -- to me -- a perfectly new character I suspected was yours: I desired to search it deeper and know it better. You entered the room with a look and air at once shy and independent: you were quaintly dressed -- much as you are now. I made you talk: ere long I found you full of strange contrasts. Your garb and manner were restricted by rule; your air was often diffident, and altogether that of one refined by nature, but absolutely unused to society, and a good deal afraid of making herself disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or blunder; yet when addressed, you lifted a keen, a daring, and a glowing eye to your interlocutor's face: there was penetration and power in each glance you gave; when plied by close questions, you found ready and round answers. Very soon you seemed to get used to me: I believe you felt the existence of sympathy between you and your grim and cross master, Jane; for it was astonishing to see how quickly a certain pleasant ease tranquillised your manner: snarl as I would, you showed no surprise, fear, annoyance, or displeasure at my moroseness; you watched me, and now and then smiled at me with a simple yet sagacious grace I cannot describe. I was at once content and stimulated with what I saw: I liked what I had seen, and wished to see more. Yet, for a long time, I treated you distantly, and sought your company rarely. I was an intellectual epicure, and wished to prolong the gratification of making this novel and piquant acquaintance: besides, I was for a while troubled with a haunting fear that if I handled the flower freely its bloom would fade -- the sweet charm of freshness would leave it. I did not then know that it was no transitory blossom, but rather the radiant resemblance of one, cut in an indestructible gem. Moreover, I wished to see whether you would seek me if I shunned you -- but you did not; you kept in the schoolroom as still as your own desk and easel; if by chance I met you, you passed me as soon, and with as little token of recognition, as was consistent with respect. Your habitual expression in those days, Jane, was a thoughtful look; not despondent, for you were not sickly; but not buoyant, for you had little hope, and no actual pleasure. I wondered what you thought of me, or if you ever thought of me, and resolved to find this out. 

"I resumed my notice of you. There was something glad in your glance, and genial in your manner, when you conversed: I saw you had a social heart; it was the silent schoolroom -- it was the tedium of your life -- that made you mournful. I permitted myself the delight of being kind to you; kindness stirred emotion soon: your face became soft in expression, your tones gentle; I liked my name pronounced by your lips in a grateful happy accent. I used to enjoy a chance meeting with you, Jane, at this time: there was a curious hesitation in your manner: you glanced at me with a slight trouble -- a hovering doubt: you did not know what my caprice might be -- whether I was going to play the master and be stern, or the friend and be benignant. I was now too fond of you often to simulate the first whim; and, when I stretched my hand out cordially, such bloom and light and bliss rose to your young, wistful features, I had much ado often to avoid straining you then and there to my heart
Don't talk any more of those days, sir
No, Jane
what necessity is there to dwell on the Past, when the Present is so much surer -- the Future so much brighter
You see now how the case stands -- do you not
It was because I felt and knew this, that I resolved to marry you. To tell me that I had already a wife is empty mockery: you know now that I had but a hideous demon. I was wrong to attempt to deceive you; but I feared a stubbornness that exists in your character. I feared early instilled prejudice: I wanted to have you safe before hazarding confidences. This was cowardly: I should have appealed to your nobleness and magnanimity at first, as I do now -- opened to you plainly my life of agony -- described to you my hunger and thirst after a higher and worthier existence -- shown to you, not my RESOLUTION (that word is weak), but my resistless BENT to love faithfully and well, where I am faithfully and well loved in return. Then I should have asked you to accept my pledge of fidelity and to give me yours. Jane -- give it me now
Why are you silent, Jane
Depart
Jane, you understand what I want of you? Just this promise -- 'I will be yours, Mr. Rochester
Mr. Rochester, I will NOT be yours
Jane
Jane, do you mean to go one way in the world, and to let me go another
I do
do you mean it now
I do
And now
I do
Oh, Jane, this is bitter! This -- this is wicked. It would not be wicked to love me
It would to obey you
One instant, Jane. Give one glance to my horrible life when you are gone. All happiness will be torn away with you. What then is left? For a wife I have but the maniac upstairs: as well might you refer me to some corpse in yonder churchyard. What shall I do, Jane? Where turn for a companion and for some hope
Do as I do: trust in God and yourself. Believe in heaven. Hope to meet again there
Then you will not yield
No
Then you condemn me to live wretched and to die accursed
I advise you to live sinless, and I wish you to die tranquil
Then you snatch love and innocence from me? You fling me back on lust for a passion -- vice for an occupation
Mr. Rochester, I no more assign this fate to you than I grasp at it for myself. We were born to strive and endure -- you as well as I: do so. You will forget me before I forget you
You make me a liar by such language: you sully my honour. I declared I could not change: you tell me to my face I shall change soon. And what a distortion in your judgment, what a perversity in your ideas, is proved by your conduct! Is it better to drive a fellow-creature to despair than to transgress a mere human law, no man being injured by the breach? for you have neither relatives nor acquaintances whom you need fear to offend by living with me
Oh, comply
Think of his misery; think of his danger -- look at his state when left alone; remember his headlong nature; consider the recklessness following on despair -- soothe him; save him; love him; tell him you love him and will be his. Who in the world cares for YOU? or who will be injured by what you do
I care for myself. The more solitary, the more friendless, the more unsustained I am, the more I will respect myself. I will keep the law given by God; sanctioned by man. I will hold to the principles received by me when I was sane, and not mad -- as I am now. Laws and principles are not for the times when there is no temptation: they are for such moments as this, when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigour; stringent are they; inviolate they shall be. If at my individual convenience I might break them, what would be their worth? They have a worth -- so I have always believed; and if I cannot believe it now, it is because I am insane -- quite insane: with my veins running fire, and my heart beating faster than I can count its throbs. Preconceived opinions, foregone determinations, are all I have at this hour to stand by: there I plant my foot
Never
never was anything at once so frail and so indomitable. A mere reed she feels in my hand
I could bend her with my finger and thumb: and what good would it do if I bent, if I uptore, if I crushed her? Consider that eye: consider the resolute, wild, free thing looking out of it, defying me, with more than courage -- with a stern triumph. Whatever I do with its cage, I cannot get at it -- the savage, beautiful creature! If I tear, if I rend the slight prison, my outrage will only let the captive loose. Conqueror I might be of the house; but the inmate would escape to heaven before I could call myself possessor of its clay dwelling-place. And it is you, spirit -- with will and energy, and virtue and purity -- that I want: not alone your brittle frame. Of yourself you could come with soft flight and nestle against my heart, if you would: seized against your will, you will elude the grasp like an essence -- you will vanish ere I inhale your fragrance. Oh! come, Jane, come
You are going, Jane
I am going, sir
You are leaving me
Yes
You will not come? You will not be my comforter, my rescuer? My deep love, my wild woe, my frantic prayer, are all nothing to you
I am going
Jane
Mr. Rochester
Withdraw, then, -- I consent; but remember, you leave me here in anguish. Go up to your own room; think over all I have said, and, Jane, cast a glance on my sufferings -- think of me
Oh, Jane! my hope -- my love -- my life
God bless you, my dear master
God keep you from harm and wrong -- direct you, solace you -- reward you well for your past kindness to me
Little Jane's love would have been my best reward
without it, my heart is broken. But Jane will give me her love: yes -- nobly, generously
Farewell
Farewell for ever
My daughter, flee temptation
Mother, I will
It cannot be too early to commence the task I have to fulfil
Farewell, kind Mrs. Fairfax
Farewell, my darling Adele
Mr. Rochester, I will love you and live with you through life till death
if there were any dressmaker or plain-workwoman in the village
Yes; two or three. Quite as many as there was employment for
Did she know of any place in the neighbourhood where a servant was wanted
Nay; she couldn't say
What was the chief trade in this place? What did most of the people do
Some were farm labourers; a good deal worked at Mr. Oliver's needle-factory, and at the foundry
Did Mr. Oliver employ women
Nay; it was men's work
And what do the women do
I knawn't
Some does one thing, and some another. Poor folk mun get on as they can
No
we do not keep a servant
Can you tell me where I could get employment of any kind
I am a stranger, without acquaintance in this place. I want some work: no matter what
was sorry she could give me no information
Yes
Was the clergyman in
No
Would he be in soon
No, he was gone from home
To a distance
Not so far -- happen three mile. He had been called away by the sudden death of his father: he was at Marsh End now, and would very likely stay there a fortnight longer
Was there any lady of the house
Nay, there was naught but her, and she was housekeeper
Would she give me a roll for this handkerchief
Nay, she never sold stuff i' that way
How could she tell where I had got the handkerchief
Would she take my gloves
No! what could she do with them
Will you give me a piece of bread? for I am very hungry
Will you give me that
Mother
there is a woman wants me to give her these porridge
Well lass
give it her if she's a beggar. T' pig doesn't want it
My strength is quite failing me
I feel I cannot go much farther. Shall I be an outcast again this night? While the rain descends so, must I lay my head on the cold, drenched ground? I fear I cannot do otherwise: for who will receive me? But it will be very dreadful, with this feeling of hunger, faintness, chill, and this sense of desolation -- this total prostration of hope. In all likelihood, though, I should die before morning. And why cannot I reconcile myself to the prospect of death? Why do I struggle to retain a valueless life? Because I know, or believe, Mr. Rochester is living: and then, to die of want and cold is a fate to which nature cannot submit passively. Oh, Providence! sustain me a little longer! Aid! -- direct me
Well, I would rather die yonder than in a street or on a frequented road
And far better that crows and ravens -- if any ravens there be in these regions -- should pick my flesh from my bones, than that they should be prisoned in a workhouse coffin and moulder in a pauper's grave
That is an ignis fatuus
Is it, then, a bonfire just kindled
It may be a candle in a house
but if so, I can never reach it. It is much too far away: and were it within a yard of me, what would it avail? I should but knock at the door to have it shut in my face
Listen, Diana
Franz and old Daniel are together in the night-time, and Franz is telling a dream from which he has awakened in terror -- listen
That is strong
I relish it
Da trat hervor Einer, anzusehen wie die Sternen Nacht.' Good! good
There you have a dim and mighty archangel fitly set before you! The line is worth a hundred pages of fustian. 'Ich wage die Gedanken in der Schale meines Zornes und die Werke mit dem Gewichte meines Grimms.' I like it
Is there ony country where they talk i' that way
Yes, Hannah -- a far larger country than England, where they talk in no other way
Well, for sure case, I knawn't how they can understand t' one t'other: and if either o' ye went there, ye could tell what they said, I guess
We could probably tell something of what they said, but not all -- for we are not as clever as you think us, Hannah. We don't speak German, and we cannot read it without a dictionary to help us
And what good does it do you
We mean to teach it some time -- or at least the elements, as they say; and then we shall get more money than we do now
Varry like: but give ower studying; ye've done enough for to-night
I think we have: at least I'm tired. Mary, are you
Mortally: after all, it's tough work fagging away at a language with no master but a lexicon
It is, especially such a language as this crabbed but glorious Deutsch. I wonder when St. John will come home
Surely he will not be long now: it is just ten (looking at a little gold watch she drew from her girdle). It rains fast, Hannah: will you have the goodness to look at the fire in the parlour
Ah, childer
it fair troubles me to go into yond' room now: it looks so lonesome wi' the chair empty and set back in a corner
But he is in a better place
we shouldn't wish him here again. And then, nobody need to have a quieter death nor he had
You say he never mentioned us
He hadn't time, bairn: he was gone in a minute, was your father. He had been a bit ailing like the day before, but naught to signify; and when Mr. St. John asked if he would like either o' ye to be sent for, he fair laughed at him. He began again with a bit of a heaviness in his head the next day -- that is, a fortnight sin' -- and he went to sleep and niver wakened: he wor a'most stark when your brother went into t' chamber and fand him. Ah, childer! that's t' last o' t' old stock -- for ye and Mr. St. John is like of different soart to them 'at's gone; for all your mother wor mich i' your way, and a'most as book-learned. She wor the pictur' o' ye, Mary: Diana is more like your father
Ye'll want your supper, I am sure
and so will Mr. St. John when he comes in
What do you want
May I speak to your mistresses
You had better tell me what you have to say to them. Where do you come from
I am a stranger
What is your business here at this hour
I want a night's shelter in an out-house or anywhere, and a morsel of bread to eat
I'll give you a piece of bread
but we can't take in a vagrant to lodge. It isn't likely
Do let me speak to your mistresses
No, not I. What can they do for you? You should not be roving about now; it looks very ill
But where shall I go if you drive me away? What shall I do
A penny cannot feed me, and I have no strength to go farther. Don't shut the door:- oh, don't, for God's sake
Indeed, I will not. You are not what you ought to be, or you wouldn't make such a noise. Move off
But I must die if I am turned away
Not you. I'm fear'd you have some ill plans agate, that bring you about folk's houses at this time o' night. If you've any followers -- housebreakers or such like -- anywhere near, you may tell them we are not by ourselves in the house; we have a gentleman, and dogs, and guns
I can but die
and I believe in God. Let me try to wait His will in silence
All men must die
but all are not condemned to meet a lingering and premature doom, such as yours would be if you perished here of want
Who or what speaks
Is it you, Mr. St. John
Yes -- yes; open quickly
Well, how wet and cold you must be, such a wild night as it is! Come in -- your sisters are quite uneasy about you, and I believe there are bad folks about. There has been a beggar-woman -- I declare she is not gone yet! -- laid down there. Get up! for shame! Move off, I say
Hush, Hannah! I have a word to say to the woman. You have done your duty in excluding, now let me do mine in admitting her. I was near, and listened to both you and her. I think this is a peculiar case -- I must at least examine into it. Young woman, rise, and pass before me into the house
St. John, who is it
I cannot tell: I found her at the door
She does look white
As white as clay or death
She will fall: let her sit
Perhaps a little water would restore her. Hannah, fetch some. But she is worn to nothing. How very thin, and how very bloodless
A mere spectre
Is she ill, or only famished
Famished, I think. Hannah, is that milk? Give it me, and a piece of bread
Try to eat
Yes -- try
Not too much at first -- restrain her
she has had enough
A little more, St. John -- look at the avidity in her eyes
No more at present, sister. Try if she can speak now -- ask her her name
My name is Jane Elliott
And where do you live? Where are your friends
Can we send for any one you know
What account can you give of yourself
Sir, I can give you no details to-night
But what, then
do you expect me to do for you
Nothing
Do you mean
that we have now given you what aid you require? and that we may dismiss you to the moor and the rainy night
I will trust you. If I were a masterless and stray dog, I know that you would not turn me from your hearth to-night: as it is, I really have no fear. Do with me and for me as you like; but excuse me from much discourse -- my breath is short -- I feel a spasm when I speak
Hannah
let her sit there at present, and ask her no questions; in ten minutes more, give her the remainder of that milk and bread. Mary and Diana, let us go into the parlour and talk the matter over
It is very well we took her in
Yes; she would certainly have been found dead at the door in the morning had she been left out all night. I wonder what she has gone through
Strange hardships, I imagine -- poor, emaciated, pallid wanderer
She is not an uneducated person, I should think, by her manner of speaking; her accent was quite pure; and the clothes she took off, though splashed and wet, were little worn and fine
She has a peculiar face; fleshless and haggard as it is, I rather like it; and when in good health and animated, I can fancy her physiognomy would be agreeable
Rather an unusual physiognomy; certainly, not indicative of vulgarity or degradation
Far otherwise
To speak truth, St. John, my heart rather warms to the poor little soul. I wish we may be able to benefit her permanently
That is hardly likely
You will find she is some young lady who has had a misunderstanding with her friends, and has probably injudiciously left them. We may, perhaps, succeed in restoring her to them, if she is not obstinate: but I trace lines of force in her face which make me sceptical of her tractability
She looks sensible, but not at all handsome
She is so ill, St. John
Ill or well, she would always be plain. The grace and harmony of beauty are quite wanting in those features
What, you have got up
You are better, then. You may sit you down in my chair on the hearthstone, if you will
Did you ever go a-begging afore you came here
You are mistaken in supposing me a beggar. I am no beggar; any more than yourself or your young ladies
I dunnut understand that: you've like no house, nor no brass, I guess
The want of house or brass (by which I suppose you mean money) does not make a beggar in your sense of the word
Are you book-learned
Yes, very
But you've never been to a boarding-school
I was at a boarding-school eight years
Whatever cannot ye keep yourself for, then
I have kept myself; and, I trust, shall keep myself again. What are you going to do with these gooseberries
Mak' 'em into pies
Give them to me and I'll pick them
Nay; I dunnut want ye to do nought
But I must do something. Let me have them
lest
I should mucky it
Ye've not been used to sarvant's wark, I see by your hands
Happen ye've been a dressmaker
No, you are wrong. And now, never mind what I have been: don't trouble your head further about me; but tell me the name of the house where we are
Some calls it Marsh End, and some calls it Moor House
And the gentleman who lives here is called Mr. St. John
Nay; he doesn't live here: he is only staying a while. When he is at home, he is in his own parish at Morton
That village a few miles off? "Aye
And what is he
He is a parson
This, then, was his father's residence
Aye; old Mr. Rivers lived here, and his father, and grandfather, and gurt (great) grandfather afore him
The name, then, of that gentleman, is Mr. St. John Rivers
Aye; St. John is like his kirstened name
And his sisters are called Diana and Mary Rivers
Yes
Their father is dead
Dead three weeks sin' of a stroke
They have no mother
The mistress has been dead this mony a year
Have you lived with the family long
I've lived here thirty year. I nursed them all three
That proves you must have been an honest and faithful servant. I will say so much for you, though you have had the incivility to call me a beggar
I believe
I was quite mista'en in my thoughts of you: but there is so mony cheats goes about, you mun forgie me
And though
you wished to turn me from the door, on a night when you should not have shut out a dog
Well, it was hard: but what can a body do? I thought more o' th' childer nor of mysel: poor things! They've like nobody to tak' care on 'em but me. I'm like to look sharpish
You munnut think too hardly of me
But I do think hardly of you
and I'll tell you why -- not so much because you refused to give me shelter, or regarded me as an impostor, as because you just now made it a species of reproach that I had no 'brass' and no house. Some of the best people that ever lived have been as destitute as I am; and if you are a Christian, you ought not to consider poverty a crime
No more I ought
Mr. St. John tells me so too; and I see I wor wrang -- but I've clear a different notion on you now to what I had. You look a raight down dacent little crater
That will do -- I forgive you now. Shake hands
the childer
aboon two hundred year old -- for all it looked but a small, humble place, naught to compare wi' Mr. Oliver's grand hall down i' Morton Vale. But she could remember Bill Oliver's father a journeyman needlemaker; and th' Rivers wor gentry i' th' owd days o' th' Henrys, as onybody might see by looking into th' registers i' Morton Church vestry
the owd maister was like other folk -- naught mich out o' t' common way: stark mad o' shooting, and farming, and sich like
of a mak' of their own
threaped
Gone over to Morton for a walk; but they would be back in half-an-hour to tea
You should have waited for my leave to descend
You still look very pale -- and so thin! Poor child! -- poor girl
And what business have you here
It is not your place. Mary and I sit in the kitchen sometimes, because at home we like to be free, even to license -- but you are a visitor, and must go into the parlour
I am very well here
Not at all, with Hannah bustling about and covering you with flour
Besides, the fire is too hot for you
To be sure
Come, you must be obedient
Sit there
while we take our things off and get the tea ready; it is another privilege we exercise in our little moorland home -- to prepare our own meals when we are so inclined, or when Hannah is baking, brewing, washing, or ironing
Eat that now
you must be hungry. Hannah says you have had nothing but some gruel since breakfast
You are very hungry
I am, sir
It is well for you that a low fever has forced you to abstain for the last three days: there would have been danger in yielding to the cravings of your appetite at first. Now you may eat, though still not immoderately
I trust I shall not eat long at your expense, sir
No
when you have indicated to us the residence of your friends, we can write to them, and you may be restored to home
That, I must plainly tell you, is out of my power to do; being absolutely without home and friends
Do you mean to say
that you are completely isolated from every connection
I do. Not a tie links me to any living thing: not a claim do I possess to admittance under any roof in England
A most singular position at your age
You have never been married? You are a spinster
Why, she can't he above seventeen or eighteen years old, St. John
I am near nineteen: but I am not married. No
Where did you last reside
You are too inquisitive, St. John
The name of the place where, and of the person with whom I lived, is my secret
Which, if you like, you have, in my opinion, a right to keep, both from St. John and every other questioner
Yet if I know nothing about you or your history, I cannot help you
And you need help, do you not
I need it, and I seek it so far, sir, that some true philanthropist will put me in the way of getting work which I can do, and the remuneration for which will keep me, if but in the barest necessaries of life
I know not whether I am a true philanthropist; yet I am willing to aid you to the utmost of my power in a purpose so honest. First, then, tell me what you have been accustomed to do, and what you CAN do
Mr. Rivers
I am an orphan, the daughter of a clergyman. My parents died before I could know them. I was brought up a dependant; educated in a charitable institution. I will even tell you the name of the establishment, where I passed six years as a pupil, and two as a teacher -- Lowood Orphan Asylum, -shire: you will have heard of it, Mr. Rivers? -- the Rev. Robert Brocklehurst is the treasurer
I have heard of Mr. Brocklehurst, and I have seen the school
I left Lowood nearly a year since to become a private governess. I obtained a good situation, and was happy. This place I was obliged to leave four days before I came here. The reason of my departure I cannot and ought not to explain: it would be useless, dangerous, and would sound incredible. No blame attached to me: I am as free from culpability as any one of you three. Miserable I am, and must be for a time; for the catastrophe which drove me from a house I had found a paradise was of a strange and direful nature. I observed but two points in planning my departure -- speed, secrecy: to secure these, I had to leave behind me everything I possessed except a small parcel; which, in my hurry and trouble of mind, I forgot to take out of the coach that brought me to Whitcross. To this neighbourhood, then, I came, quite destitute. I slept two nights in the open air, and wandered about two days without crossing a threshold: but twice in that space of time did I taste food; and it was when brought by hunger, exhaustion, and despair almost to the last gasp, that you, Mr. Rivers, forbade me to perish of want at your door, and took me under the shelter of your roof. I know all your sisters have done for me since -- for I have not been insensible during my seeming torpor -- and I owe to their spontaneous, genuine, genial compassion as large a debt as to your evangelical charity
Don't make her talk any more now, St. John
she is evidently not yet fit for excitement. Come to the sofa and sit down now, Miss Elliott
You said your name was Jane Elliott
I did say so; and it is the name by which I think it expedient to be called at present, but it is not my real name, and when I hear it, it sounds strange to me
Your real name you will not give
No: I fear discovery above all things; and whatever disclosure would lead to it, I avoid
You are quite right, I am sure
Now do, brother, let her be at peace a while
You would not like to be long dependent on our hospitality -- you would wish, I see, to dispense as soon as may be with my sisters' compassion, and, above all, with my CHARITY (I am quite sensible of the distinction drawn, nor do I resent it -- it is just): you desire to be independent of us
I do: I have already said so. Show me how to work, or how to seek work: that is all I now ask; then let me go, if it be but to the meanest cottage; but till then, allow me to stay here: I dread another essay of the horrors of homeless destitution
Indeed you SHALL stay here
You SHALL
My sisters, you see, have a pleasure in keeping you
as they would have a pleasure in keeping and cherishing a half-frozen bird, some wintry wind might have driven through their casement. I feel more inclination to put you in the way of keeping yourself, and shall endeavour to do so; but observe, my sphere is narrow. I am but the incumbent of a poor country parish: my aid must be of the humblest sort. And if you are inclined to despise the day of small things, seek some more efficient succour than such as I can offer
She has already said that she is willing to do anything honest she can do
and you know, St. John, she has no choice of helpers: she is forced to put up with such crusty people as you
I will be a dressmaker; I will be a plain-workwoman; I will be a servant, a nurse-girl, if I can be no better
Right
If such is your spirit, I promise to aid you, in my own time and way
And if I let a gust of wind or a sprinkling of rain turn me aside from these easy tasks, what preparation would such sloth be for the future I propose to myself
You have a question to ask of me
Yes; I wish to know whether you have heard of any service I can offer myself to undertake
I found or devised something for you three weeks ago; but as you seemed both useful and happy here -- as my sisters had evidently become attached to you, and your society gave them unusual pleasure -- I deemed it inexpedient to break in on your mutual comfort till their approaching departure from Marsh End should render yours necessary
And they will go in three days now
Yes; and when they go, I shall return to the parsonage at Morton: Hannah will accompany me; and this old house will be shut up
What is the employment you had in view, Mr. Rivers? I hope this delay will not have increased the difficulty of securing it
Oh, no; since it is an employment which depends only on me to give, and you to accept
You need be in no hurry to hear
let me frankly tell you, I have nothing eligible or profitable to suggest. Before I explain, recall, if you please, my notice, clearly given, that if I helped you, it must be as the blind man would help the lame. I am poor; for I find that, when I have paid my father's debts, all the patrimony remaining to me will be this crumbling grange, the row of scathed firs behind, and the patch of moorish soil, with the yew-trees and holly-bushes in front. I am obscure: Rivers is an old name; but of the three sole descendants of the race, two earn the dependant's crust among strangers, and the third considers himself an alien from his native country -- not only for life, but in death. Yes, and deems, and is bound to deem, himself honoured by the lot, and aspires but after the day when the cross of separation from fleshly ties shall be laid on his shoulders, and when the Head of that church-militant of whose humblest members he is one, shall give the word, 'Rise, follow Me
And since I am myself poor and obscure, I can offer you but a service of poverty and obscurity. YOU may even think it degrading -- for I see now your habits have been what the world calls refined: your tastes lean to the ideal, and your society has at least been amongst the educated; but I consider that no service degrades which can better our race. I hold that the more arid and unreclaimed the soil where the Christian labourer's task of tillage is appointed him -- the scantier the meed his toil brings -- the higher the honour. His, under such circumstances, is the destiny of the pioneer; and the first pioneers of the Gospel were the Apostles -- their captain was Jesus, the Redeemer, Himself
Well
proceed
I believe you will accept the post I offer you
and hold it for a while: not permanently, though: any more than I could permanently keep the narrow and narrowing -- the tranquil, hidden office of English country incumbent; for in your nature is an alloy as detrimental to repose as that in mine, though of a different kind
Do explain
I will; and you shall hear how poor the proposal is, -- how trivial -- how cramping. I shall not stay long at Morton, now that my father is dead, and that I am my own master. I shall leave the place probably in the course of a twelve-month; but while I do stay, I will exert myself to the utmost for its improvement. Morton, when I came to it two years ago, had no school: the children of the poor were excluded from every hope of progress. I established one for boys: I mean now to open a second school for girls. I have hired a building for the purpose, with a cottage of two rooms attached to it for the mistress's house. Her salary will be thirty pounds a year: her house is already furnished, very simply, but sufficiently, by the kindness of a lady, Miss Oliver; the only daughter of the sole rich man in my parish -- Mr. Oliver, the proprietor of a needle-factory and iron-foundry in the valley. The same lady pays for the education and clothing of an orphan from the workhouse, on condition that she shall aid the mistress in such menial offices connected with her own house and the school as her occupation of teaching will prevent her having time to discharge in person. Will you be this mistress
I thank you for the proposal, Mr. Rivers, and I accept it with all my heart
But you comprehend me
It is a village school: your scholars will be only poor girls -- cottagers' children -- at the best, farmers' daughters. Knitting, sewing, reading, writing, ciphering, will be all you will have to teach. What will you do with your accomplishments? What, with the largest portion of your mind -- sentiments -- tastes
Save them till they are wanted. They will keep
You know what you undertake, then
I do
And when will you commence the exercise of your function
I will go to my house to-morrow, and open the school, if you like, next week
Very well: so be it
What do you disapprove of, Mr. Rivers
You will not stay at Morton long: no, no
Why? What is your reason for saying so
I read it in your eye; it is not of that description which promises the maintenance of an even tenor in life
I am not ambitious
ambitious
No. What made you think of ambition? Who is ambitious? I know I am: but how did you find it out
I was speaking of myself
Well, if you are not ambitious, you are -- " He paused. "What
I was going to say, impassioned: but perhaps you would have misunderstood the word, and been displeased. I mean, that human affections and sympathies have a most powerful hold on you. I am sure you cannot long be content to pass your leisure in solitude, and to devote your working hours to a monotonous labour wholly void of stimulus: any more than I can be content
to live here buried in morass, pent in with mountains -- my nature, that God gave me, contravened; my faculties, heaven-bestowed, paralysed -- made useless. You hear now how I contradict myself. I, who preached contentment with a humble lot, and justified the vocation even of hewers of wood and drawers of water in God's service -- I, His ordained minister, almost rave in my restlessness. Well, propensities and principles must be reconciled by some means
He will sacrifice all to his long-framed resolves
natural affection and feelings more potent still. St. John looks quiet, Jane; but he hides a fever in his vitals. You would think him gentle, yet in some things he is inexorable as death; and the worst of it is, my conscience will hardly permit me to dissuade him from his severe decision: certainly, I cannot for a moment blame him for it. It is right, noble, Christian: yet it breaks my heart
We are now without father: we shall soon be without home and brother
misfortunes never come singly
Our uncle John is dead
Dead
Yes
And what then
What then, Die
What then? Why -- nothing. Read
Amen! We can yet live
At any rate, it makes us no worse off than we were before
Only it forces rather strongly on the mind the picture of what MIGHT HAVE BEEN
and contrasts it somewhat too vividly with what IS
Jane, you will wonder at us and our mysteries
and think us hard-hearted beings not to be more moved at the death of so near a relation as an uncle; but we have never seen him or known him. He was my mother's brother. My father and he quarrelled long ago. It was by his advice that my father risked most of his property in the speculation that ruined him. Mutual recrimination passed between them: they parted in anger, and were never reconciled. My uncle engaged afterwards in more prosperous undertakings: it appears he realised a fortune of twenty thousand pounds. He was never married, and had no near kindred but ourselves and one other person, not more closely related than we. My father always cherished the idea that he would atone for his error by leaving his possessions to us; that letter informs us that he has bequeathed every penny to the other relation, with the exception of thirty guineas, to be divided between St. John, Diana, and Mary Rivers, for the purchase of three mourning rings. He had a right, of course, to do as he pleased: and yet a momentary damp is cast on the spirits by the receipt of such news. Mary and I would have esteemed ourselves rich with a thousand pounds each; and to St. John such a sum would have been valuable, for the good it would have enabled him to do
The air was mild, the dew was balm
No, I cannot stay; I have only brought you a little parcel my sisters left for you. I think it contains a colour-box, pencils, and paper
Have you found your first day's work harder than you expected
Oh, no! On the contrary, I think in time I shall get on with my scholars very well
But perhaps your accommodations -- your cottage -- your furniture -- have disappointed your expectations? They are, in truth, scanty enough; but -- " I interrupted - "My cottage is clean and weather-proof; my furniture sufficient and commodious. All I see has made me thankful, not despondent. I am not absolutely such a fool and sensualist as to regret the absence of a carpet, a sofa, and silver plate; besides, five weeks ago I had nothing -- I was an outcast, a beggar, a vagrant; now I have acquaintance, a home, a business. I wonder at the goodness of God; the generosity of my friends; the bounty of my lot. I do not repine
But you feel solitude an oppression? The little house there behind you is dark and empty
I have hardly had time yet to enjoy a sense of tranquillity, much less to grow impatient under one of loneliness
Very well; I hope you feel the content you express: at any rate, your good sense will tell you that it is too soon yet to yield to the vacillating fears of Lot's wife. What you had left before I saw you, of course I do not know; but I counsel you to resist firmly every temptation which would incline you to look back: pursue your present career steadily, for some months at least
It is what I mean to do
It is hard work to control the workings of inclination and turn the bent of nature; but that it may be done, I know from experience. God has given us, in a measure, the power to make our own fate; and when our energies seem to demand a sustenance they cannot get -- when our will strains after a path we may not follow -- we need neither starve from inanition, nor stand still in despair: we have but to seek another nourishment for the mind, as strong as the forbidden food it longed to taste -- and perhaps purer; and to hew out for the adventurous foot a road as direct and broad as the one Fortune has blocked up against us, if rougher than it. "A year ago I was myself intensely miserable, because I thought I had made a mistake in entering the ministry: its uniform duties wearied me to death. I burnt for the more active life of the world -- for the more exciting toils of a literary career -- for the destiny of an artist, author, orator; anything rather than that of a priest: yes, the heart of a politician, of a soldier, of a votary of glory, a lover of renown, a luster after power, beat under my curate's surplice. I considered; my life was so wretched, it must be changed, or I must die. After a season of darkness and struggling, light broke and relief fell: my cramped existence all at once spread out to a plain without bounds -- my powers heard a call from heaven to rise, gather their full strength, spread their wings, and mount beyond ken. God had an errand for me; to bear which afar, to deliver it well, skill and strength, courage and eloquence, the best qualifications of soldier, statesman, and orator, were all needed: for these all centre in the good missionary. 

"A missionary I resolved to be. From that moment my state of mind changed; the fetters dissolved and dropped from every faculty, leaving nothing of bondage but its galling soreness -- which time only can heal. My father, indeed, imposed the determination, but since his death, I have not a legitimate obstacle to contend with; some affairs settled, a successor for Morton provided, an entanglement or two of the feelings broken through or cut asunder -- a last conflict with human weakness, in which I know I shall overcome, because I have vowed that I WILL overcome -- and I leave Europe for the East
Good evening, Mr. Rivers. And good evening, old Carlo. Your dog is quicker to recognise his friends than you are, sir; he pricked his ears and wagged his tail when I was at the bottom of the field, and you have your back towards me now
A lovely evening, but late for you to be out alone
Oh, I only came home from S
this afternoon. Papa told me you had opened your school, and that the new mistress was come; and so I put on my bonnet after tea, and ran up the valley to see her: this is she
It is
Do you think you shall like Morton
I hope I shall. I have many inducements to do so
Did you find your scholars as attentive as you expected
Quite
Do you like your house
Very much
Have I furnished it nicely
Very nicely, indeed
And made a good choice of an attendant for you in Alice Wood
You have indeed. She is teachable and handy
I shall come up and help you to teach sometimes
It will be a change for me to visit you now and then; and I like a change. Mr. Rivers, I have been SO gay during my stay at S-. Last night, or rather this morning, I was dancing till two o'clock. The -th regiment are stationed there since the riots; and the officers are the most agreeable men in the world: they put all our young knife-grinders and scissor merchants to shame
Poor Carlo loves me
HE is not stern and distant to his friends; and if he could speak, he would not be silent
Papa says you never come to see us now
You are quite a stranger at Vale Hall. He is alone this evening, and not very well: will you return with me and visit him
It is not a seasonable hour to intrude on Mr. Oliver
Not a seasonable hour! But I declare it is. It is just the hour when papa most wants company: when the works are closed and he has no business to occupy him. Now, Mr. Rivers, DO come. Why are you so very shy, and so very sombre
I forgot
I am so giddy and thoughtless! DO excuse me. It had slipped my memory that you have good reasons to be indisposed for joining in my chatter. Diana and Mary have left you, and Moor House is shut up, and you are so lonely. I am sure I pity you. Do come and see papa
Not to-night, Miss Rosamond, not to-night
Well, if you are so obstinate, I will leave you; for I dare not stay any longer: the dew begins to fall. Good evening
Good evening
Are you well
Quite well
inexorable as death
sitting in sunshine, calm and sweet
I love you, and I know you prefer me. It is not despair of success that keeps me dumb. If I offered my heart, I believe you would accept it. But that heart is already laid on a sacred altar: the fire is arranged round it. It will soon be no more than a sacrifice consumed
not one-tenth so handsome, though I was a nice neat little soul enough, but he was an angel
Had I done these pictures? Did I know French and German? What a love -- what a miracle I was! I drew better than her master in the first school in S-. Would I sketch a portrait of her, to show to papa
With pleasure
Indeed
she is clever enough to be a governess in a high family, papa
I am come to see how you are spending your holiday
Not, I hope, in thought? No, that is well: while you draw you will not feel lonely. You see, I mistrust you still, though you have borne up wonderfully so far. I have brought you a book for evening solace
With all his firmness and self-control
he tasks himself too far: locks every feeling and pang within -- expresses, confesses, imparts nothing. I am sure it would benefit him to talk a little about this sweet Rosamond, whom he thinks he ought not to marry: I will make him talk
Take a chair, Mr. Rivers
Very well
stand if you like; but you shall not go just yet, I am determined: solitude is at least as bad for you as it is for me. I'll try if I cannot discover the secret spring of your confidence, and find an aperture in that marble breast through which I can shed one drop of the balm of sympathy
Is this portrait like
Like! Like whom? I did not observe it closely
You did, Mr. Rivers
Oh, that is nothing yet
I don't mean to be baffled by a little stiffness on your part; I'm prepared to go to considerable lengths
You observed it closely and distinctly; but I have no objection to your looking at it again
A well-executed picture
very soft, clear colouring; very graceful and correct drawing
Yes, yes; I know all that. But what of the resemblance? Who is it like
Miss Oliver, I presume
Of course. And now, sir, to reward you for the accurate guess, I will promise to paint you a careful and faithful duplicate of this very picture, provided you admit that the gift would be acceptable to you. I don't wish to throw away my time and trouble on an offering you would deem worthless
It is like
the eye is well managed: the colour, light, expression, are perfect. It smiles
Would it comfort, or would it wound you to have a similar painting? Tell me that. When you are at Madagascar, or at the Cape, or in India, would it be a consolation to have that memento in your possession? or would the sight of it bring recollections calculated to enervate and distress
That I should like to have it is certain: whether it would be judicious or wise is another question
As far as I can see, it would be wiser and more judicious if you were to take to yourself the original at once
She likes you, I am sure
and her father respects you. Moreover, she is a sweet girl -- rather thoughtless; but you would have sufficient thought for both yourself and her. You ought to marry her
DOES she like me
Certainly; better than she likes any one else. She talks of you continually: there is no subject she enjoys so much or touches upon so often
It is very pleasant to hear this
very: go on for another quarter of an hour
But where is the use of going on
when you are probably preparing some iron blow of contradiction, or forging a fresh chain to fetter your heart
Don't imagine such hard things. Fancy me yielding and melting, as I am doing: human love rising like a freshly opened fountain in my mind and overflowing with sweet inundation all the field I have so carefully and with such labour prepared -- so assiduously sown with the seeds of good intentions, of self-denying plans. And now it is deluged with a nectarous flood -- the young germs swamped -- delicious poison cankering them: now I see myself stretched on an ottoman in the drawing-room at Vale Hall at my bride Rosamond Oliver's feet: she is talking to me with her sweet voice -- gazing down on me with those eyes your skilful hand has copied so well -- smiling at me with these coral lips. She is mine -- I am hers -- this present life and passing world suffice to me. Hush! say nothing -- my heart is full of delight -- my senses are entranced -- let the time I marked pass in peace
Now
that little space was given to delirium and delusion. I rested my temples on the breast of temptation, and put my neck voluntarily under her yoke of flowers. I tasted her cup. The pillow was burning: there is an asp in the garland: the wine has a bitter taste: her promises are hollow -- her offers false: I see and know all this
It is strange
that while I love Rosamond Oliver so wildly -- with all the intensity, indeed, of a first passion, the object of which is exquisitely beautiful, graceful, fascinating -- I experience at the same time a calm, unwarped consciousness that she would not make me a good wife; that she is not the partner suited to me; that I should discover this within a year after marriage; and that to twelve months' rapture would succeed a lifetime of regret. This I know
Strange indeed
While something in me
is acutely sensible to her charms, something else is as deeply impressed with her defects: they are such that she could sympathise in nothing I aspired to -- co- operate in nothing I undertook. Rosamond a sufferer, a labourer, a female apostle? Rosamond a missionary's wife? No
But you need not be a missionary. You might relinquish that scheme
Relinquish! What! my vocation? My great work? My foundation laid on earth for a mansion in heaven? My hopes of being numbered in the band who have merged all ambitions in the glorious one of bettering their race -- of carrying knowledge into the realms of ignorance -- of substituting peace for war -- freedom for bondage -- religion for superstition -- the hope of heaven for the fear of hell? Must I relinquish that? It is dearer than the blood in my veins. It is what I have to look forward to, and to live for
And Miss Oliver? Are her disappointment and sorrow of no interest to you
Miss Oliver is ever surrounded by suitors and flatterers: in less than a month, my image will be effaced from her heart. She will forget me; and will marry, probably, some one who will make her far happier than I should do
You speak coolly enough; but you suffer in the conflict. You are wasting away
No. If I get a little thin, it is with anxiety about my prospects, yet unsettled -- my departure, continually procrastinated. Only this morning, I received intelligence that the successor, whose arrival I have been so long expecting, cannot be ready to replace me for three months to come yet; and perhaps the three months may extend to six
You tremble and become flushed whenever Miss Oliver enters the schoolroom
You are original
and not timid. There is something brave in your spirit, as well as penetrating in your eye; but allow me to assure you that you partially misinterpret my emotions. You think them more profound and potent than they are. You give me a larger allowance of sympathy than I have a just claim to. When I colour, and when I shade before Miss Oliver, I do not pity myself. I scorn the weakness. I know it is ignoble: a mere fever of the flesh: not, I declare, the convulsion of the soul. THAT is just as fixed as a rock, firm set in the depths of a restless sea. Know me to be what I am -- a cold hard man
You have taken my confidence by storm
and now it is much at your service. I am simply, in my original state -- stripped of that blood-bleached robe with which Christianity covers human deformity -- a cold, hard, ambitious man. Natural affection only, of all the sentiments, has permanent power over me. Reason, and not feeling, is my guide; my ambition is unlimited: my desire to rise higher, to do more than others, insatiable. I honour endurance, perseverance, industry, talent; because these are the means by which men achieve great ends and mount to lofty eminence. I watch your career with interest, because I consider you a specimen of a diligent, orderly, energetic woman: not because I deeply compassionate what you have gone through, or what you still suffer
You would describe yourself as a mere pagan philosopher
No. There is this difference between me and deistic philosophers: I believe; and I believe the Gospel. You missed your epithet. I am not a pagan, but a Christian philosopher -- a follower of the sect of Jesus. As His disciple I adopt His pure, His merciful, His benignant doctrines. I advocate them: I am sworn to spread them. Won in youth to religion, she has cultivated my original qualities thus:- From the minute germ, natural affection, she has developed the overshadowing tree, philanthropy. From the wild stringy root of human uprightness, she has reared a due sense of the Divine justice. Of the ambition to win power and renown for my wretched self, she has formed the ambition to spread my Master's kingdom; to achieve victories for the standard of the cross. So much has religion done for me; turning the original materials to the best account; pruning and training nature. But she could not eradicate nature: nor will it be eradicated 'till this mortal shall put on immortality
She IS lovely
She is well named the Rose of the World, indeed
And may I not paint one like it for you
CUI BONO? No
What is the matter
Nothing in the world
good-afternoon
Well
that caps the globe, however
Any ill news
Has anything happened
No. How very easily alarmed you are
I shall sully the purity of your floor
but you must excuse me for once
I have had hard work to get here, I assure you
One drift took me up to the waist; happily the snow is quite soft yet
But why are you come
Rather an inhospitable question to put to a visitor; but since you ask it, I answer simply to have a little talk with you; I got tired of my mute books and empty rooms. Besides, since yesterday I have experienced the excitement of a person to whom a tale has been half- told, and who is impatient to hear the sequel
I wish Diana or Mary would come and live with you: it is too bad that you should be quite alone; and you are recklessly rash about your own health
Not at all
I care for myself when necessary. I am well now. What do you see amiss in me
No, no
Well
if you won't talk, you may be still; I'll let you alone now, and return to my book
Marmion
Have you heard from Diana and Mary lately
Not since the letter I showed you a week ago
There has not been any change made about your own arrangements? You will not be summoned to leave England sooner than you expected
I fear not, indeed: such chance is too good to befall me
Mary Garrett's mother is better, and Mary came back to the school this morning, and I shall have four new girls next week from the Foundry Close -- they would have come to-day but for the snow
Indeed
Mr. Oliver pays for two
Does he
He means to give the whole school a treat at Christmas
I know
Was it your suggestion
No
Whose, then
His daughter's, I think
It is like her: she is so good-natured
Yes
Leave your book a moment, and come a little nearer the fire
Half-an-hour ago
Twenty years ago, a poor curate -- never mind his name at this moment -- fell in love with a rich man's daughter; she fell in love with him, and married him, against the advice of all her friends, who consequently disowned her immediately after the wedding. Before two years passed, the rash pair were both dead, and laid quietly side by side under one slab. (I have seen their grave; it formed part of the pavement of a huge churchyard surrounding the grim, soot-black old cathedral of an overgrown manufacturing town in -shire.) They left a daughter, which, at its very birth, Charity received in her lap -- cold as that of the snow-drift I almost stuck fast in to-night. Charity carried the friendless thing to the house of its rich maternal relations; it was reared by an aunt-in-law, called (I come to names now) Mrs. Reed of Gateshead. You start -- did you hear a noise? I daresay it is only a rat scrambling along the rafters of the adjoining schoolroom: it was a barn before I had it repaired and altered, and barns are generally haunted by rats. -- To proceed. Mrs. Reed kept the orphan ten years: whether it was happy or not with her, I cannot say, never having been told; but at the end of that time she transferred it to a place you know -- being no other than Lowood School, where you so long resided yourself. It seems her career there was very honourable: from a pupil, she became a teacher, like yourself -- really it strikes me there are parallel points in her history and yours -- she left it to be a governess: there, again, your fates were analogous; she undertook the education of the ward of a certain Mr. Rochester
Mr. Rivers
I can guess your feelings
but restrain them for a while: I have nearly finished; hear me to the end. Of Mr. Rochester's character I know nothing, but the one fact that he professed to offer honourable marriage to this young girl, and that at the very altar she discovered he had a wife yet alive, though a lunatic. What his subsequent conduct and proposals were is a matter of pure conjecture; but when an event transpired which rendered inquiry after the governess necessary, it was discovered she was gone -- no one could tell when, where, or how. She had left Thornfield Hall in the night; every research after her course had been vain: the country had been scoured far and wide; no vestige of information could be gathered respecting her. Yet that she should be found is become a matter of serious urgency: advertisements have been put in all the papers; I myself have received a letter from one Mr. Briggs, a solicitor, communicating the details I have just imparted. Is it not an odd tale
Just tell me this
and since you know so much, you surely can tell it me -- what of Mr. Rochester? How and where is he? What is he doing? Is he well
I am ignorant of all concerning Mr. Rochester: the letter never mentions him but to narrate the fraudulent and illegal attempt I have adverted to. You should rather ask the name of the governess -- the nature of the event which requires her appearance
Did no one go to Thornfield Hall, then? Did no one see Mr. Rochester
I suppose not
But they wrote to him
Of course
And what did he say? Who has his letters
Mr. Briggs intimates that the answer to his application was not from Mr. Rochester, but from a lady: it is signed 'Alice Fairfax
my dear Edward
He must have been a bad man
You don't know him -- don't pronounce an opinion upon him
Very well
and indeed my head is otherwise occupied than with him: I have my tale to finish. Since you won't ask the governess's name, I must tell it of my own accord. Stay! I have it here -- it is always more satisfactory to see important points written down, fairly committed to black and white
JANE EYRE
Briggs wrote to me of a Jane Eyre
the advertisements demanded a Jane Eyre: I knew a Jane Elliott. -- I confess I had my suspicions, but it was only yesterday afternoon they were at once resolved into certainty. You own the name and renounce the alias
Yes -- yes; but where is Mr. Briggs? He perhaps knows more of Mr. Rochester than you do
Briggs is in London. I should doubt his knowing anything at all about Mr. Rochester; it is not in Mr. Rochester he is interested. Meantime, you forget essential points in pursuing trifles: you do not inquire why Mr. Briggs sought after you -- what he wanted with you
Well, what did he want
Merely to tell you that your uncle, Mr. Eyre of Madeira, is dead; that he has left you all his property, and that you are now rich -- merely that -- nothing more
I! -- rich
Yes, you, rich -- quite an heiress
You must prove your identity of course
a step which will offer no difficulties; you can then enter on immediate possession. Your fortune is vested in the English funds; Briggs has the will and the necessary documents
You unbend your forehead at last
I thought Medusa had looked at you, and that you were turning to stone. Perhaps now you will ask how much you are worth
How much am I worth
Oh, a trifle! Nothing of course to speak of -- twenty thousand pounds, I think they say -- but what is that
Twenty thousand pounds
Well
if you had committed a murder, and I had told you your crime was discovered, you could scarcely look more aghast
It is a large sum -- don't you think there is a mistake
No mistake at all
Perhaps you have read the figures wrong -- it may be two thousand
It is written in letters, not figures, -- twenty thousand
If it were not such a very wild night
I would send Hannah down to keep you company: you look too desperately miserable to be left alone. But Hannah, poor woman! could not stride the drifts so well as I: her legs are not quite so long: so I must e'en leave you to your sorrows. Good-night
Stop one minute
Well
It puzzles me to know why Mr. Briggs wrote to you about me; or how he knew you, or could fancy that you, living in such an out-of-the-way place, had the power to aid in my discovery
Oh! I am a clergyman
and the clergy are often appealed to about odd matters
No; that does not satisfy me
It is a very strange piece of business
I must know more about it
Another time
No; to-night! -- to-night
You certainly shall not go till you have told me all
I would rather not just now
You shall! -- you must
I would rather Diana or Mary informed you
But I apprised you that I was a hard man
difficult to persuade
And I am a hard woman, -- impossible to put off
And then
I am cold: no fervour infects me
Whereas I am hot, and fire dissolves ice. The blaze there has thawed all the snow from your cloak; by the same token, it has streamed on to my floor, and made it like a trampled street. As you hope ever to be forgiven, Mr. Rivers, the high crime and misdemeanour of spoiling a sanded kitchen, tell me what I wish to know
Well, then
I yield; if not to your earnestness, to your perseverance: as stone is worn by continual dropping. Besides, you must know some day, -- as well now as later. Your name is Jane Eyre
Of course: that was all settled before
You are not, perhaps, aware that I am your namesake? -- that I was christened St. John Eyre Rivers
My mother's name was Eyre; she had two brothers; one a clergyman, who married Miss Jane Reed, of Gateshead; the other, John Eyre, Esq., merchant, late of Funchal, Madeira. Mr. Briggs, being Mr. Eyre's solicitor, wrote to us last August to inform us of our uncle's death, and to say that he had left his property to his brother the clergyman's orphan daughter, overlooking us, in consequence of a quarrel, never forgiven, between him and my father. He wrote again a few weeks since, to intimate that the heiress was lost, and asking if we knew anything of her. A name casually written on a slip of paper has enabled me to find her out. You know the rest
Do let me speak
let me have one moment to draw breath and reflect
Your mother was my father's sister
Yes
My aunt, consequently
My uncle John was your uncle John? You, Diana, and Mary are his sister's children, as I am his brother's child
Undeniably
You three, then, are my cousins; half our blood on each side flows from the same source
We are cousins; yes
Oh, I am glad! -- I am glad
Did I not say you neglected essential points to pursue trifles
You were serious when I told you you had got a fortune; and now, for a matter of no moment, you are excited
What can you mean? It may be of no moment to you; you have sisters and don't care for a cousin; but I had nobody; and now three relations, -- or two, if you don't choose to be counted, -- are born into my world full-grown. I say again, I am glad
Write to Diana and Mary to-morrow
and tell them to come home directly. Diana said they would both consider themselves rich with a thousand pounds, so with five thousand they will do very well
Tell me where I can get you a glass of water
you must really make an effort to tranquillise your feelings
Nonsense! and what sort of an effect will the bequest have on you? Will it keep you in England, induce you to marry Miss Oliver, and settle down like an ordinary mortal
You wander: your head becomes confused. I have been too abrupt in communicating the news; it has excited you beyond your strength
Mr. Rivers! you quite put me out of patience: I am rational enough; it is you who misunderstand, or rather who affect to misunderstand
Perhaps, if you explained yourself a little more fully, I should comprehend better
Explain! What is there to explain? You cannot fail to see that twenty thousand pounds, the sum in question, divided equally between the nephew and three nieces of our uncle, will give five thousand to each? What I want is, that you should write to your sisters and tell them of the fortune that has accrued to them
To you, you mean
I have intimated my view of the case: I am incapable of taking any other. I am not brutally selfish, blindly unjust, or fiendishly ungrateful. Besides, I am resolved I will have a home and connections. I like Moor House, and I will live at Moor House; I like Diana and Mary, and I will attach myself for life to Diana and Mary. It would please and benefit me to have five thousand pounds; it would torment and oppress me to have twenty thousand; which, moreover, could never be mine in justice, though it might in law. I abandon to you, then, what is absolutely superfluous to me. Let there be no opposition, and no discussion about it; let us agree amongst each other, and decide the point at once
This is acting on first impulses; you must take days to consider such a matter, ere your word can be regarded as valid
Oh! if all you doubt is my sincerity, I am easy: you see the justice of the case
I DO see a certain justice; but it is contrary to all custom. Besides, the entire fortune is your right: my uncle gained it by his own efforts; he was free to leave it to whom he would: he left it to you. After all, justice permits you to keep it: you may, with a clear conscience, consider it absolutely your own
With me
it is fully as much a matter of feeling as of conscience: I must indulge my feelings; I so seldom have had an opportunity of doing so. Were you to argue, object, and annoy me for a year, I could not forego the delicious pleasure of which I have caught a glimpse -- that of repaying, in part, a mighty obligation, and winning to myself lifelong friends
You think so now
And you
cannot at all imagine the craving I have for fraternal and sisterly love. I never had a home, I never had brothers or sisters; I must and will have them now: you are not reluctant to admit me and own me, are you
Jane, I will be your brother -- my sisters will be your sisters -- without stipulating for this sacrifice of your just rights
Brother? Yes; at the distance of a thousand leagues! Sisters? Yes; slaving amongst strangers! I, wealthy -- gorged with gold I never earned and do not merit! You, penniless! Famous equality and fraternisation! Close union! Intimate attachment
But, Jane, your aspirations after family ties and domestic happiness may be realised otherwise than by the means you contemplate: you may marry
Nonsense, again! Marry! I don't want to marry, and never shall marry
That is saying too much: such hazardous affirmations are a proof of the excitement under which you labour
It is not saying too much: I know what I feel, and how averse are my inclinations to the bare thought of marriage. No one would take me for love; and I will not be regarded in the light of a mere money speculation. And I do not want a stranger -- unsympathising, alien, different from me; I want my kindred: those with whom I have full fellow-feeling. Say again you will be my brother: when you uttered the words I was satisfied, happy; repeat them, if you can, repeat them sincerely
I think I can. I know I have always loved my own sisters; and I know on what my affection for them is grounded, -- respect for their worth and admiration of their talents. You too have principle and mind: your tastes and habits resemble Diana's and Mary's; your presence is always agreeable to me; in your conversation I have already for some time found a salutary solace. I feel I can easily and naturally make room in my heart for you, as my third and youngest sister
Thank you: that contents me for to-night. Now you had better go; for if you stay longer, you will perhaps irritate me afresh by some mistrustful scruple
And the school, Miss Eyre? It must now be shut up, I suppose
No. I will retain my post of mistress till you get a substitute
Do you consider you have got your reward for a season of exertion
Does not the consciousness of having done some real good in your day and generation give pleasure
Doubtless
And you have only toiled a few months! Would not a life devoted to the task of regenerating your race be well spent
Yes
but I could not go on for ever so: I want to enjoy my own faculties as well as to cultivate those of other people. I must enjoy them now; don't recall either my mind or body to the school; I am out of it and disposed for full holiday
What now? What sudden eagerness is this you evince? What are you going to do
To be active: as active as I can. And first I must beg you to set Hannah at liberty, and get somebody else to wait on you
Do you want her
Yes, to go with me to Moor House. Diana and Mary will be at home in a week, and I want to have everything in order against their arrival
I understand. I thought you were for flying off on some excursion. It is better so: Hannah shall go with you
Tell her to be ready by to-morrow then; and here is the schoolroom key: I will give you the key of my cottage in the morning
You give it up very gleefully
I don't quite understand your light-heartedness, because I cannot tell what employment you propose to yourself as a substitute for the one you are relinquishing. What aim, what purpose, what ambition in life have you now
My first aim will be to CLEAN DOWN (do you comprehend the full force of the expression?) -- to CLEAN DOWN Moor House from chamber to cellar; my next to rub it up with bees-wax, oil, and an indefinite number of cloths, till it glitters again; my third, to arrange every chair, table, bed, carpet, with mathematical precision; afterwards I shall go near to ruin you in coals and peat to keep up good fires in every room; and lastly, the two days preceding that on which your sisters are expected will be devoted by Hannah and me to such a beating of eggs, sorting of currants, grating of spices, compounding of Christmas cakes, chopping up of materials for mince-pies, and solemnising of other culinary rites, as words can convey but an inadequate notion of to the uninitiated like you. My purpose, in short, is to have all things in an absolutely perfect state of readiness for Diana and Mary before next Thursday; and my ambition is to give them a beau-ideal of a welcome when they come
It is all very well for the present
but seriously, I trust that when the first flush of vivacity is over, you will look a little higher than domestic endearments and household joys
The best things the world has
No, Jane, no: this world is not the scene of fruition; do not attempt to make it so: nor of rest; do not turn slothful
I mean, on the contrary, to be busy
Jane, I excuse you for the present: two months' grace I allow you for the full enjoyment of your new position, and for pleasing yourself with this late-found charm of relationship; but THEN, I hope you will begin to look beyond Moor House and Morton, and sisterly society, and the selfish calm and sensual comfort of civilised affluence. I hope your energies will then once more trouble you with their strength
St. John
I think you are almost wicked to talk so. I am disposed to be as content as a queen, and you try to stir me up to restlessness! To what end
To the end of turning to profit the talents which God has committed to your keeping; and of which He will surely one day demand a strict account. Jane, I shall watch you closely and anxiously -- I warn you of that. And try to restrain the disproportionate fervour with which you throw yourself into commonplace home pleasures. Don't cling so tenaciously to ties of the flesh; save your constancy and ardour for an adequate cause; forbear to waste them on trite transient objects. Do you hear, Jane
Yes; just as if you were speaking Greek. I feel I have adequate cause to be happy, and I WILL be happy. Goodbye
If I was at last satisfied with housemaid's work
Not at all; he had, on the contrary, remarked that I had scrupulously respected every association: he feared, indeed, I must have bestowed more thought on the matter than it was worth. How many minutes, for instance, had I devoted to studying the arrangement of this very room? -- By-the-bye, could I tell him where such a book was
This parlour is not his sphere
the Himalayan ridge or Caffre bush, even the plague-cursed Guinea Coast swamp would suit him better. Well may he eschew the calm of domestic life; it is not his element: there his faculties stagnate -- they cannot develop or appear to advantage. It is in scenes of strife and danger -- where courage is proved, and energy exercised, and fortitude tasked -- that he will speak and move, the leader and superior. A merry child would have the advantage of him on this hearth. He is right to choose a missionary's career -- I see it now
They are coming! they are coming
a poor lad was come, at that unlikely time, to fetch Mr. Rivers to see his mother, who was drawing away
Where does she live, Hannah
Clear up at Whitcross Brow, almost four miles off, and moor and moss all the way
Tell him I will go
I'm sure, sir, you had better not. It's the worst road to travel after dark that can be: there's no track at all over the bog. And then it is such a bitter night -- the keenest wind you ever felt. You had better send word, sir, that you will be there in the morning
If his plans were yet unchanged
Unchanged and unchangeable
And Rosamond Oliver
Rosamond Oliver
is about to be married to Mr. Granby, one of the best connected and most estimable residents in S-, grandson and heir to Sir Frederic Granby: I had the intelligence from her father yesterday
The match must have been got up hastily
they cannot have known each other long
But two months: they met in October at the county ball at S-. But where there are no obstacles to a union, as in the present case, where the connection is in every point desirable, delays are unnecessary: they will be married as soon as S- Place, which Sir Frederic gives up to them, can he refitted for their reception
You see, Jane, the battle is fought and the victory won
But are you sure you are not in the position of those conquerors whose triumphs have cost them too dear? Would not such another ruin you
I think not; and if I were, it does not much signify; I shall never be called upon to contend for such another. The event of the conflict is decisive: my way is now clear; I thank God for it
Jane is not such a weakling as you would make her
she can bear a mountain blast, or a shower, or a few flakes of snow, as well as any of us. Her constitution is both sound and elastic; -- better calculated to endure variations of climate than many more robust
Jane, what are you doing
Learning German
I want you to give up German and learn Hindostanee
You are not in earnest
In such earnest that I must have it so: and I will tell you why
I know it
go
come
do this
St. John! you used to call Jane your third sister, but you don't treat her as such: you should kiss her too
We will wait a few minutes, Jane, till you are more composed
Now, Jane, you shall take a walk; and with me
I will call Diana and Mary
No; I want only one companion this morning, and that must be you. Put on your things; go out by the kitchen-door: take the road towards the head of Marsh Glen: I will join you in a moment
Let us rest here
And I shall see it again
in dreams when I sleep by the Ganges: and again in a more remote hour -- when another slumber overcomes me -- on the shore of a darker stream
Jane, I go in six weeks; I have taken my berth in an East Indiaman which sails on the 20th of June
God will protect you; for you have undertaken His work
Yes
there is my glory and joy. I am the servant of an infallible Master. I am not going out under human guidance, subject to the defective laws and erring control of my feeble fellow-worms: my king, my lawgiver, my captain, is the All-perfect. It seems strange to me that all round me do not burn to enlist under the same banner, -- to join in the same enterprise
All have not your powers, and it would be folly for the feeble to wish to march with the strong
I do not speak to the feeble, or think of them: I address only such as are worthy of the work, and competent to accomplish it
Those are few in number, and difficult to discover
You say truly; but when found, it is right to stir them up -- to urge and exhort them to the effort -- to show them what their gifts are, and why they were given -- to speak Heaven's message in their ear, -- to offer them, direct from God, a place in the ranks of His chosen
If they are really qualified for the task, will not their own hearts be the first to inform them of it
And what does YOUR heart say
My heart is mute, -- my heart is mute
Then I must speak for it
Jane, come with me to India: come as my helpmeet and fellow-labourer
Come over and help us
Oh, St. John
have some mercy
God and nature intended you for a missionary's wife. It is not personal, but mental endowments they have given you: you are formed for labour, not for love. A missionary's wife you must -- shall be. You shall be mine: I claim you -- not for my pleasure, but for my Sovereign's service
I am not fit for it: I have no vocation
Humility, Jane
is the groundwork of Christian virtues: you say right that you are not fit for the work. Who is fit for it? Or who, that ever was truly called, believed himself worthy of the summons? I, for instance, am but dust and ashes. With St. Paul, I acknowledge myself the chiefest of sinners; but I do not suffer this sense of my personal vileness to daunt me. I know my Leader: that He is just as well as mighty; and while He has chosen a feeble instrument to perform a great task, He will, from the boundless stores of His providence, supply the inadequacy of the means to the end. Think like me, Jane -- trust like me. It is the Rock of Ages I ask you to lean on: do not doubt but it will bear the weight of your human weakness
I do not understand a missionary life: I have never studied missionary labours
There I, humble as I am, can give you the aid you want: I can set you your task from hour to hour; stand by you always; help you from moment to moment. This I could do in the beginning: soon (for I know your powers) you would be as strong and apt as myself, and would not require my help
But my powers -- where are they for this undertaking? I do not feel them. Nothing speaks or stirs in me while you talk. I am sensible of no light kindling -- no life quickening -- no voice counselling or cheering. Oh, I wish I could make you see how much my mind is at this moment like a rayless dungeon, with one shrinking fear fettered in its depths -- the fear of being persuaded by you to attempt what I cannot accomplish
I have an answer for you -- hear it. I have watched you ever since we first met: I have made you my study for ten months. I have proved you in that time by sundry tests: and what have I seen and elicited? In the village school I found you could perform well, punctually, uprightly, labour uncongenial to your habits and inclinations; I saw you could perform it with capacity and tact: you could win while you controlled. In the calm with which you learnt you had become suddenly rich, I read a mind clear of the vice of Demas:- lucre had no undue power over you. In the resolute readiness with which you cut your wealth into four shares, keeping but one to yourself, and relinquishing the three others to the claim of abstract justice, I recognised a soul that revelled in the flame and excitement of sacrifice. In the tractability with which, at my wish, you forsook a study in which you were interested, and adopted another because it interested me; in the untiring assiduity with which you have since persevered in it -- in the unflagging energy and unshaken temper with which you have met its difficulties -- I acknowledge the complement of the qualities I seek. Jane, you are docile, diligent, disinterested, faithful, constant, and courageous; very gentle, and very heroic: cease to mistrust yourself -- I can trust you unreservedly. As a conductress of Indian schools, and a helper amongst Indian women, your assistance will be to me invaluable
Very willingly
I CAN do what he wants me to do: I am forced to see and acknowledge that
Consent, then, to his demand is possible: but for one item -- one dreadful item. It is -- that he asks me to be his wife, and has no more of a husband's heart for me than that frowning giant of a rock, down which the stream is foaming in yonder gorge. He prizes me as a soldier would a good weapon; and that is all. Unmarried to him, this would never grieve me; but can I let him complete his calculations -- coolly put into practice his plans -- go through the wedding ceremony? Can I receive from him the bridal ring, endure all the forms of love (which I doubt not he would scrupulously observe) and know that the spirit was quite absent? Can I bear the consciousness that every endearment he bestows is a sacrifice made on principle? No: such a martyrdom would be monstrous. I will never undergo it. As his sister, I might accompany him -- not as his wife: I will tell him so
I am ready to go to India, if I may go free
Your answer requires a commentary
it is not clear
You have hitherto been my adopted brother -- I, your adopted sister: let us continue as such: you and I had better not marry
Adopted fraternity will not do in this case. If you were my real sister it would be different: I should take you, and seek no wife. But as it is, either our union must be consecrated and sealed by marriage, or it cannot exist: practical obstacles oppose themselves to any other plan. Do you not see it, Jane? Consider a moment -- your strong sense will guide you
St. John
I regard you as a brother -- you, me as a sister: so let us continue
We cannot -- we cannot
it would not do. You have said you will go with me to India: remember -- you have said that
Conditionally
Well -- well. To the main point -- the departure with me from England, the co-operation with me in my future labours -- you do not object. You have already as good as put your hand to the plough: you are too consistent to withdraw it. You have but one end to keep in view -- how the work you have undertaken can best be done. Simplify your complicated interests, feelings, thoughts, wishes, aims; merge all considerations in one purpose: that of fulfilling with effect -- with power -- the mission of your great Master. To do so, you must have a coadjutor: not a brother -- that is a loose tie -- but a husband. I, too, do not want a sister: a sister might any day be taken from me. I want a wife: the sole helpmeet I can influence efficiently in life, and retain absolutely till death
Seek one elsewhere than in me, St. John: seek one fitted to you
One fitted to my purpose, you mean -- fitted to my vocation. Again I tell you it is not the insignificant private individual -- the mere man, with the man's selfish senses -- I wish to mate: it is the missionary
And I will give the missionary my energies -- it is all he wants -- but not myself: that would be only adding the husk and shell to the kernel. For them he has no use: I retain them
You cannot -- you ought not. Do you think God will be satisfied with half an oblation? Will He accept a mutilated sacrifice? It is the cause of God I advocate: it is under His standard I enlist you. I cannot accept on His behalf a divided allegiance: it must be entire
Oh! I will give my heart to God
YOU do not want it
Is she sarcastic, and sarcastic to ME
What does this signify
Do not let us forget that this is a solemn matter
one of which we may neither think nor talk lightly without sin. I trust, Jane, you are in earnest when you say you will serve your heart to God: it is all I want. Once wrench your heart from man, and fix it on your Maker, the advancement of that Maker's spiritual kingdom on earth will be your chief delight and endeavour; you will be ready to do at once whatever furthers that end. You will see what impetus would be given to your efforts and mine by our physical and mental union in marriage: the only union that gives a character of permanent conformity to the destinies and designs of human beings; and, passing over all minor caprices -- all trivial difficulties and delicacies of feeling -- all scruple about the degree, kind, strength or tenderness of mere personal inclination -- you will hasten to enter into that union at once
Shall I
St. John
Well
I repeat I freely consent to go with you as your fellow-missionary, but not as your wife; I cannot marry you and become part of you
A part of me you must become
otherwise the whole bargain is void. How can I, a man not yet thirty, take out with me to India a girl of nineteen, unless she be married to me? How can we be for ever together -- sometimes in solitudes, sometimes amidst savage tribes -- and unwed
Very well
under the circumstances, quite as well as if I were either your real sister, or a man and a clergyman like yourself
It is known that you are not my sister; I cannot introduce you as such: to attempt it would be to fasten injurious suspicions on us both. And for the rest, though you have a man's vigorous brain, you have a woman's heart and -- it would not do
It would do
perfectly well. I have a woman's heart, but not where you are concerned; for you I have only a comrade's constancy; a fellow-soldier's frankness, fidelity, fraternity, if you like; a neophyte's respect and submission to his hierophant: nothing more -- don't fear
It is what I want
it is just what I want. And there are obstacles in the way: they must be hewn down. Jane, you would not repent marrying me -- be certain of that; we MUST be married. I repeat it: there is no other way; and undoubtedly enough of love would follow upon marriage to render the union right even in your eyes
I scorn your idea of love
I scorn the counterfeit sentiment you offer: yes, St. John, and I scorn you when you offer it
I scarcely expected to hear that expression from you
I think I have done and uttered nothing to deserve scorn
Forgive me the words, St. John; but it is your own fault that I have been roused to speak so unguardedly. You have introduced a topic on which our natures are at variance -- a topic we should never discuss: the very name of love is an apple of discord between us. If the reality were required, what should we do? How should we feel? My dear cousin, abandon your scheme of marriage -- forget it
No
it is a long-cherished scheme, and the only one which can secure my great end: but I shall urge you no further at present. To-morrow, I leave home for Cambridge: I have many friends there to whom I should wish to say farewell. I shall be absent a fortnight -- take that space of time to consider my offer: and do not forget that if you reject it, it is not me you deny, but God. Through my means, He opens to you a noble career; as my wife only can you enter upon it. Refuse to be my wife, and you limit yourself for ever to a track of selfish ease and barren obscurity. Tremble lest in that case you should be numbered with those who have denied the faith, and are worse than infidels
Looked to river, looked to hill
I see you and St. John have been quarrelling, Jane
during your walk on the moor. But go after him; he is now lingering in the passage expecting you -- he will make it up
Good-night, St. John
Good-night, Jane
Then shake hands
St. John, I am unhappy because you are still angry with me. Let us be friends
I hope we are friends
No, St. John, we are not friends as we were. You know that
Are we not? That is wrong. For my part, I wish you no ill and all good
I believe you, St. John; for I am sure you are incapable of wishing any one ill; but, as I am your kinswoman, I should desire somewhat more of affection than that sort of general philanthropy you extend to mere strangers
Of course
Your wish is reasonable, and I am far from regarding you as a stranger
Must we part in this way, St. John? And when you go to India, will you leave me so, without a kinder word than you have yet spoken
When I go to India, Jane, will I leave you! What! do you not go to India
You said I could not unless I married you
And you will not marry me! You adhere to that resolution
No. St. John, I will not marry you. I adhere to my resolution
Once more, why this refusal
Formerly
because you did not love me; now, I reply, because you almost hate me. If I were to marry you, you would kill me. You are killing me now
I SHOULD KILL YOU -- I AM KILLING YOU? Your words are such as ought not to be used: violent, unfeminine, and untrue. They betray an unfortunate state of mind: they merit severe reproof: they would seem inexcusable, but that it is the duty of man to forgive his fellow even until seventy-and-seven times
Now you will indeed hate me
It is useless to attempt to conciliate you: I see I have made an eternal enemy of you
You utterly misinterpret my words
I have no intention to grieve or pain you -- indeed, I have not
And now you recall your promise, and will not go to India at all, I presume
Yes, I will, as your assistant
I before proved to you the absurdity of a single woman of your age proposing to accompany abroad a single man of mine. I proved it to you in such terms as, I should have thought, would have prevented your ever again alluding to the plan. That you have done so, I regret -- for your sake
Keep to common sense, St. John: you are verging on nonsense. You pretend to be shocked by what I have said. You are not really shocked: for, with your superior mind, you cannot be either so dull or so conceited as to misunderstand my meaning. I say again, I will be your curate, if you like, but never your wife
A female curate, who is not my wife, would never suit me. With me, then, it seems, you cannot go: but if you are sincere in your offer, I will, while in town, speak to a married missionary, whose wife needs a coadjutor. Your own fortune will make you independent of the Society's aid; and thus you may still be spared the dishonour of breaking your promise and deserting the band you engaged to join
There is no dishonour, no breach of promise, no desertion in the case. I am not under the slightest obligation to go to India, especially with strangers. With you I would have ventured much, because I admire, confide in, and, as a sister, I love you; but I am convinced that, go when and with whom I would, I should not live long in that climate
Ah! you are afraid of yourself
I am. God did not give me my life to throw away; and to do as you wish me would, I begin to think, be almost equivalent to committing suicide. Moreover, before I definitively resolve on quitting England, I will know for certain whether I cannot be of greater use by remaining in it than by leaving it
What do you mean
It would be fruitless to attempt to explain; but there is a point on which I have long endured painful doubt, and I can go nowhere till by some means that doubt is removed
I know where your heart turns and to what it clings. The interest you cherish is lawless and unconsecrated. Long since you ought to have crushed it: now you should blush to allude to it. You think of Mr. Rochester
Are you going to seek Mr. Rochester
I must find out what is become of him
It remains for me, then
Jane
That brother of mine cherishes peculiar views of some sort respecting you, I am sure: he has long distinguished you by a notice and interest he never showed to any one else -- to what end? I wish he loved you -- does he, Jane
No, Die, not one whit
Then why does he follow you so with his eyes, and get you so frequently alone with him, and keep you so continually at his side? Mary and I had both concluded he wished you to marry him
He does -- he has asked me to be his wife
That is just what we hoped and thought! And you will marry him, Jane, won't you? And then he will stay in England
Far from that, Diana; his sole idea in proposing to me is to procure a fitting fellow-labourer in his Indian toils
What! He wishes you to go to India
Yes
Madness
You would not live three months there, I am certain. You never shall go: you have not consented, have you, Jane
And have consequently displeased him
Deeply: he will never forgive me, I fear: yet I offered to accompany him as his sister
It was frantic folly to do so, Jane. Think of the task you undertook -- one of incessant fatigue, where fatigue kills even the strong, and you are weak. St. John -- you know him -- would urge you to impossibilities: with him there would be no permission to rest during the hot hours; and unfortunately, I have noticed, whatever he exacts, you force yourself to perform. I am astonished you found courage to refuse his hand. You do not love him then, Jane
Not as a husband
Yet he is a handsome fellow
And I am so plain, you see, Die. We should never suit
Plain! You? Not at all. You are much too pretty, as well as too good, to be grilled alive in Calcutta
I must indeed
for when just now I repeated the offer of serving him for a deacon, he expressed himself shocked at my want of decency. He seemed to think I had committed an impropriety in proposing to accompany him unmarried: as if I had not from the first hoped to find in him a brother, and habitually regarded him as such
What makes you say he does not love you, Jane
You should hear himself on the subject. He has again and again explained that it is not himself, but his office he wishes to mate. He has told me I am formed for labour -- not for love: which is true, no doubt. But, in my opinion, if I am not formed for love, it follows that I am not formed for marriage. Would it not be strange, Die, to be chained for life to a man who regarded one but as a useful tool
Insupportable -- unnatural -- out of the question
And then
though I have only sisterly affection for him now, yet, if forced to be his wife, I can imagine the possibility of conceiving an inevitable, strange, torturing kind of love for him, because he is so talented; and there is often a certain heroic grandeur in his look, manner, and conversation. In that case, my lot would become unspeakably wretched. He would not want me to love him; and if I showed the feeling, he would make me sensible that it was a superfluity, unrequired by him, unbecoming in me. I know he would
And yet St. John is a good man
He is a good and a great man; but he forgets, pitilessly, the feelings and claims of little people, in pursuing his own large views. It is better, therefore, for the insignificant to keep out of his way, lest, in his progress, he should trample them down. Here he comes! I will leave you, Diana
He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But
the fearful, the unbelieving, &amp;c., shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death
Thank you, Jane. As I said, I shall return from Cambridge in a fortnight: that space, then, is yet left you for reflection. If I listened to human pride, I should say no more to you of marriage with me; but I listen to my duty, and keep steadily in view my first aim -- to do all things to the glory of God. My Master was long-suffering: so will I be. I cannot give you up to perdition as a vessel of wrath: repent -- resolve, while there is yet time. Remember, we are bid to work while it is day -- warned that 'the night cometh when no man shall work.' Remember the fate of Dives, who had his good things in this life. God give you strength to choose that better part which shall not be taken from you
Could you decide now
I could decide if I were but certain
were I but convinced that it is God's will I should marry you, I could vow to marry you here and now -- come afterwards what would
My prayers are heard
Show me, show me the path
What have you heard? What do you see
Jane! Jane! Jane
O God! what is it
Where is it
I am coming
Wait for me! Oh, I will come
Where are you
Where are you
Down superstition
This is not thy deception, nor thy witchcraft: it is the work of nature. She was roused, and did -- no miracle -- but her best
You left me too suddenly last night. Had you stayed but a little longer, you would have laid your hand on the Christian's cross and the angel's crown. I shall expect your clear decision when I return this day fortnight. Meantime, watch and pray that you enter not into temptation: the spirit, I trust, is willing, but the flesh, I see, is weak. I shall pray for you hourly. -- Yours, ST. JOHN
My spirit
is willing to do what is right; and my flesh, I hope, is strong enough to accomplish the will of Heaven, when once that will is distinctly known to me. At any rate, it shall be strong enough to search -- inquire -- to grope an outlet from this cloud of doubt, and find the open day of certainty
In a few more hours I shall succeed you in that track, cousin
I too have a coach to meet at Whitcross. I too have some to see and ask after in England, before I depart for ever
Ere many days
I will know something of him whose voice seemed last night to summon me. Letters have proved of no avail -- personal inquiry shall replace them
Alone, Jane
Yes; it was to see or hear news of a friend about whom I had for some time been uneasy
How far is Thornfield Hall from here
Just two miles, ma'am, across the fields
My journey is closed
The Rochester Arms
Your master himself may be beyond the British Channel, for aught you know: and then, if he is at Thornfield Hall, towards which you hasten, who besides him is there? His lunatic wife: and you have nothing to do with him: you dare not speak to him or seek his presence. You have lost your labour -- you had better go no farther
Ask information of the people at the inn; they can give you all you seek: they can solve your doubts at once. Go up to that man, and inquire if Mr. Rochester be at home
My first view of it shall be in front
where its bold battlements will strike the eye nobly at once, and where I can single out my master's very window: perhaps he will be standing at it -- he rises early: perhaps he is now walking in the orchard, or on the pavement in front. Could I but see him! -- but a moment! Surely, in that case, I should not be so mad as to run to him? I cannot tell -- I am not certain. And if I did -- what then? God bless him! What then? Who would be hurt by my once more tasting the life his glance can give me? I rave: perhaps at this moment he is watching the sun rise over the Pyrenees, or on the tideless sea of the south
What affectation of diffidence was this at first
what stupid regardlessness now
Is he with Damer de Rochester, sharing the shelter of his narrow marble house
You know Thornfield Hall, of course
Yes, ma'am; I lived there once
Did you
I was the late Mr. Rochester's butler
The late
Is he dead
I mean the present gentleman, Mr. Edward's father
the present gentleman
Is Mr. Rochester living at Thornfield Hall now
No, ma'am -- oh, no! No one is living there. I suppose you are a stranger in these parts, or you would have heard what happened last autumn, -- Thornfield Hall is quite a ruin: it was burnt down just about harvest-time. A dreadful calamity! such an immense quantity of valuable property destroyed: hardly any of the furniture could be saved. The fire broke out at dead of night, and before the engines arrived from Millcote, the building was one mass of flame. It was a terrible spectacle: I witnessed it myself
At dead of night
Was it known how it originated
They guessed, ma'am: they guessed. Indeed, I should say it was ascertained beyond a doubt. You are not perhaps aware
that there was a lady -- a -- a lunatic, kept in the house
I have heard something of it
She was kept in very close confinement, ma'am: people even for some years was not absolutely certain of her existence. No one saw her: they only knew by rumour that such a person was at the Hall; and who or what she was it was difficult to conjecture. They said Mr. Edward had brought her from abroad, and some believed she had been his mistress. But a queer thing happened a year since -- a very queer thing
And this lady
This lady, ma'am
But the fire
I'm coming to that, ma'am -- that Mr. Edward fell in love with. The servants say they never saw anybody so much in love as he was: he was after her continually. They used to watch him -- servants will, you know, ma'am -- and he set store on her past everything: for all, nobody but him thought her so very handsome. She was a little small thing, they say, almost like a child. I never saw her myself; but I've heard Leah, the house-maid, tell of her. Leah liked her well enough. Mr. Rochester was about forty, and this governess not twenty; and you see, when gentlemen of his age fall in love with girls, they are often like as if they were bewitched. Well, he would marry her
You shall tell me this part of the story another time
but now I have a particular reason for wishing to hear all about the fire. Was it suspected that this lunatic, Mrs. Rochester, had any hand in it
You've hit it, ma'am: it's quite certain that it was her, and nobody but her, that set it going. She had a woman to take care of her called Mrs. Poole -- an able woman in her line, and very trustworthy, but for one fault -- a fault common to a deal of them nurses and matrons -- she KEPT A PRIVATE BOTTLE OF GIN BY HER, and now and then took a drop over-much. It is excusable, for she had a hard life of it: but still it was dangerous; for when Mrs. Poole was fast asleep after the gin and water, the mad lady, who was as cunning as a witch, would take the keys out of her pocket, let herself out of her chamber, and go roaming about the house, doing any wild mischief that came into her head. They say she had nearly burnt her husband in his bed once: but I don't know about that. However, on this night, she set fire first to the hangings of the room next her own, and then she got down to a lower storey, and made her way to the chamber that had been the governess's -- (she was like as if she knew somehow how matters had gone on, and had a spite at her) -- and she kindled the bed there; but there was nobody sleeping in it, fortunately. The governess had run away two months before; and for all Mr. Rochester sought her as if she had been the most precious thing he had in the world, he never could hear a word of her; and he grew savage -- quite savage on his disappointment: he never was a wild man, but he got dangerous after he lost her. He would be alone, too. He sent Mrs. Fairfax, the housekeeper, away to her friends at a distance; but he did it handsomely, for he settled an annuity on her for life: and she deserved it -- she was a very good woman. Miss Adele, a ward he had, was put to school. He broke off acquaintance with all the gentry, and shut himself up like a hermit at the Hall
What! did he not leave England
Leave England? Bless you, no! He would not cross the door-stones of the house, except at night, when he walked just like a ghost about the grounds and in the orchard as if he had lost his senses -- which it is my opinion he had; for a more spirited, bolder, keener gentleman than he was before that midge of a governess crossed him, you never saw, ma'am. He was not a man given to wine, or cards, or racing, as some are, and he was not so very handsome; but he had a courage and a will of his own, if ever man had. I knew him from a boy, you see: and for my part, I have often wished that Miss Eyre had been sunk in the sea before she came to Thornfield Hall
Then Mr. Rochester was at home when the fire broke out
Yes, indeed was he; and he went up to the attics when all was burning above and below, and got the servants out of their beds and helped them down himself, and went back to get his mad wife out of her cell. And then they called out to him that she was on the roof, where she was standing, waving her arms, above the battlements, and shouting out till they could hear her a mile off: I saw her and heard her with my own eyes. She was a big woman, and had long black hair: we could see it streaming against the flames as she stood. I witnessed, and several more witnessed, Mr. Rochester ascend through the sky-light on to the roof; we heard him call 'Bertha!' We saw him approach her; and then, ma'am, she yelled and gave a spring, and the next minute she lay smashed on the pavement
Dead
Dead! Ay, dead as the stones on which her brains and blood were scattered
Good God
You may well say so, ma'am: it was frightful
And afterwards
Well, ma'am, afterwards the house was burnt to the ground: there are only some bits of walls standing now
Were any other lives lost
No -- perhaps it would have been better if there had
What do you mean
Poor Mr. Edward
I little thought ever to have seen it! Some say it was a just judgment on him for keeping his first marriage secret, and wanting to take another wife while he had one living: but I pity him, for my part
You said he was alive
Yes, yes: he is alive; but many think he had better he dead
Why? How
Where is he
Is he in England
Ay -- ay -- he's in England; he can't get out of England, I fancy -- he's a fixture now
He is stone-blind
Yes, he is stone-blind, is Mr. Edward
It was all his own courage, and a body may say, his kindness, in a way, ma'am: he wouldn't leave the house till every one else was out before him. As he came down the great staircase at last, after Mrs. Rochester had flung herself from the battlements, there was a great crash -- all fell. He was taken out from under the ruins, alive, but sadly hurt: a beam had fallen in such a way as to protect him partly; but one eye was knocked out, and one hand so crushed that Mr. Carter, the surgeon, had to amputate it directly. The other eye inflamed: he lost the sight of that also. He is now helpless, indeed -- blind and a cripple
Where is he? Where does he now live
At Ferndean, a manor-house on a farm he has, about thirty miles off: quite a desolate spot
Who is with him
Old John and his wife: he would have none else. He is quite broken down, they say
Have you any sort of conveyance
We have a chaise, ma'am, a very handsome chaise
Let it be got ready instantly; and if your post-boy can drive me to Ferndean before dark this day, I'll pay both you and him twice the hire you usually demand
quite a desolate spot
Can there be life here
Will you take my arm, sir
there is a heavy shower coming on: had you not better go in
Let me alone
Mary
how are you
Is it really you, miss, come at this late hour to this lonely place
When you go in
tell your master that a person wishes to speak to him, but do not give my name
I don't think he will see you
he refuses everybody
You are to send in your name and your business
Is that what he rang for
Yes: he always has candles brought in at dark, though he is blind
Give the tray to me; I will carry it in
Lie down
Give me the water, Mary
What is the matter
Down, Pilot
This is you, Mary, is it not
Mary is in the kitchen
Who is this? Who is this
Answer me -- speak again
Will you have a little more water, sir? I spilt half of what was in the glass
WHO is it? WHAT is it? Who speaks
Pilot knows me, and John and Mary know I am here. I came only this evening
Great God! -- what delusion has come over me? What sweet madness has seized me
No delusion -- no madness: your mind, sir, is too strong for delusion, your health too sound for frenzy
And where is the speaker? Is it only a voice? Oh! I CANNOT see, but I must feel, or my heart will stop and my brain burst. Whatever -- whoever you are -- be perceptible to the touch or I cannot live
Her very fingers
her small, slight fingers! If so there must be more of her
And this her voice
She is all here: her heart, too. God bless you, sir! I am glad to be so near you again
Jane Eyre! -- Jane Eyre
My dear master
I am Jane Eyre: I have found you out -- I am come back to you
In truth? -- in the flesh? My living Jane
You touch me, sir, -- you hold me, and fast enough: I am not cold like a corpse, nor vacant like air, am I
My living darling! These are certainly her limbs, and these her features; but I cannot be so blest, after all my misery. It is a dream; such dreams as I have had at night when I have clasped her once more to my heart, as I do now; and kissed her, as thus -- and felt that she loved me, and trusted that she would not leave me
Which I never will, sir, from this day
Never will, says the vision? But I always woke and found it an empty mockery; and I was desolate and abandoned -- my life dark, lonely, hopeless -- my soul athirst and forbidden to drink -- my heart famished and never to be fed. Gentle, soft dream, nestling in my arms now, you will fly, too, as your sisters have all fled before you: but kiss me before you go -- embrace me, Jane
It is you -- is it, Jane? You are come back to me then
I am
And you do not lie dead in some ditch under some stream? And you are not a pining outcast amongst strangers
No, sir! I am an independent woman now
Independent! What do you mean, Jane
My uncle in Madeira is dead, and he left me five thousand pounds
Ah! this is practical -- this is real
I should never dream that. Besides, there is that peculiar voice of hers, so animating and piquant, as well as soft: it cheers my withered heart; it puts life into it. -- What, Janet! Are you an independent woman? A rich woman
If you won't let me live with you, I can build a house of my own close up to your door, and you may come and sit in my parlour when you want company of an evening
But as you are rich, Jane, you have now, no doubt, friends who will look after you, and not suffer you to devote yourself to a blind lameter like me
I told you I am independent, sir, as well as rich: I am my own mistress
And you will stay with me
Certainly -- unless you object. I will be your neighbour, your nurse, your housekeeper. I find you lonely: I will be your companion -- to read to you, to walk with you, to sit with you, to wait on you, to be eyes and hands to you. Cease to look so melancholy, my dear master; you shall not be left desolate, so long as I live
No -- no -- Jane; you must not go. No -- I have touched you, heard you, felt the comfort of your presence -- the sweetness of your consolation: I cannot give up these joys. I have little left in myself -- I must have you. The world may laugh -- may call me absurd, selfish -- but it does not signify. My very soul demands you: it will be satisfied, or it will take deadly vengeance on its frame
Well, sir, I will stay with you: I have said so
Yes -- but you understand one thing by staying with me; and I understand another. You, perhaps, could make up your mind to be about my hand and chair -- to wait on me as a kind little nurse (for you have an affectionate heart and a generous spirit, which prompt you to make sacrifices for those you pity), and that ought to suffice for me no doubt. I suppose I should now entertain none but fatherly feelings for you: do you think so? Come -- tell me
I will think what you like, sir: I am content to be only your nurse, if you think it better
But you cannot always be my nurse, Janet: you are young -- you must marry one day
I don't care about being married
You should care, Janet: if I were what I once was, I would try to make you care -- but -- a sightless block
It is time some one undertook to rehumanise you
for I see you are being metamorphosed into a lion, or something of that sort. You have a 'faux air' of Nebuchadnezzar in the fields about you, that is certain: your hair reminds me of eagles' feathers; whether your nails are grown like birds' claws or not, I have not yet noticed
On this arm, I have neither hand nor nails
It is a mere stump -- a ghastly sight! Don't you think so, Jane
It is a pity to see it; and a pity to see your eyes -- and the scar of fire on your forehead: and the worst of it is, one is in danger of loving you too well for all this; and making too much of you
I thought you would be revolted, Jane, when you saw my arm, and my cicatrised visage
Did you? Don't tell me so -- lest I should say something disparaging to your judgment. Now, let me leave you an instant, to make a better fire, and have the hearth swept up. Can you tell when there is a good fire
Yes; with the right eye I see a glow -- a ruddy haze
And you see the candles
Very dimly -- each is a luminous cloud
Can you see me
No, my fairy: but I am only too thankful to hear and feel you
When do you take supper
I never take supper
But you shall have some to-night. I am hungry: so are you, I daresay, only you forget
Jane
You are altogether a human being, Jane? You are certain of that
I conscientiously believe so, Mr. Rochester
Yet how, on this dark and doleful evening, could you so suddenly rise on my lone hearth? I stretched my hand to take a glass of water from a hireling, and it was given me by you: I asked a question, expecting John's wife to answer me, and your voice spoke at my ear
Because I had come in, in Mary's stead, with the tray
And there is enchantment in the very hour I am now spending with you. Who can tell what a dark, dreary, hopeless life I have dragged on for months past? Doing nothing, expecting nothing; merging night in day; feeling but the sensation of cold when I let the fire go out, of hunger when I forgot to eat: and then a ceaseless sorrow, and, at times, a very delirium of desire to behold my Jane again. Yes: for her restoration I longed, far more than for that of my lost sight. How can it be that Jane is with me, and says she loves me? Will she not depart as suddenly as she came? To-morrow, I fear I shall find her no more
Where is the use of doing me good in any way, beneficent spirit, when, at some fatal moment, you will again desert me -- passing like a shadow, whither and how to me unknown, and for me remaining afterwards undiscoverable? "Have you a pocket-comb about you, sir
What for, Jane
Just to comb out this shaggy black mane. I find you rather alarming, when I examine you close at hand: you talk of my being a fairy, but I am sure, you are more like a brownie
Am I hideous, Jane
Very, sir: you always were, you know
Humph! The wickedness has not been taken out of you, wherever you have sojourned
Yet I have been with good people; far better than you: a hundred times better people; possessed of ideas and views you never entertained in your life: quite more refined and exalted
Who the deuce have you been with
If you twist in that way you will make me pull the hair out of your head; and then I think you will cease to entertain doubts of my substantiality
Who have you been with, Jane
You shall not get it out of me to-night, sir; you must wait till to-morrow; to leave my tale half told, will, you know, be a sort of security that I shall appear at your breakfast table to finish it. By the bye, I must mind not to rise on your hearth with only a glass of water then: I must bring an egg at the least, to say nothing of fried ham
You mocking changeling -- fairy-born and human-bred! You make me feel as I have not felt these twelve months. If Saul could have had you for his David, the evil spirit would have been exorcised without the aid of the harp
There, sir, you are redd up and made decent. Now I'll leave you: I have been travelling these last three days, and I believe I am tired. Good night
Just one word, Jane: were there only ladies in the house where you have been
A good idea
I see I have the means of fretting him out of his melancholy for some time to come
Is Miss Eyre here
Which room did you put her into? Was it dry? Is she up? Go and ask if she wants anything; and when she will come down
It is a bright, sunny morning, sir
The rain is over and gone, and there is a tender shining after it: you shall have a walk soon
Oh, you are indeed there, my skylark! Come to me. You are not gone: not vanished? I heard one of your kind an hour ago, singing high over the wood: but its song had no music for me, any more than the rising sun had rays. All the melody on earth is concentrated in my Jane's tongue to my ear (I am glad it is not naturally a silent one): all the sunshine I can feel is in her presence
Cruel, cruel deserter! Oh, Jane, what did I feel when I discovered you had fled from Thornfield, and when I could nowhere find you; and, after examining your apartment, ascertained that you had taken no money, nor anything which could serve as an equivalent! A pearl necklace I had given you lay untouched in its little casket; your trunks were left corded and locked as they had been prepared for the bridal tour. What could my darling do, I asked, left destitute and penniless? And what did she do? Let me hear now
Well, whatever my sufferings had been, they were very short
This St. John, then, is your cousin
Yes
You have spoken of him often: do you like him
He was a very good man, sir; I could not help liking him
A good man. Does that mean a respectable well-conducted man of fifty? Or what does it mean
St John was only twenty-nine, sir
Jeune encore,' as the French say. Is he a person of low stature, phlegmatic, and plain. A person whose goodness consists rather in his guiltlessness of vice, than in his prowess in virtue
He is untiringly active. Great and exalted deeds are what he lives to perform
But his brain? That is probably rather soft? He means well: but you shrug your shoulders to hear him talk
He talks little, sir: what he does say is ever to the point. His brain is first-rate, I should think not impressible, but vigorous
Is he an able man, then
Truly able
A thoroughly educated man
St. John is an accomplished and profound scholar
His manners, I think, you said are not to your taste? -- priggish and parsonic
I never mentioned his manners; but, unless I had a very bad taste, they must suit it; they are polished, calm, and gentlemanlike
His appearance, -- I forget what description you gave of his appearance; -- a sort of raw curate, half strangled with his white neckcloth, and stilted up on his thick-soled high-lows, eh
St. John dresses well. He is a handsome man: tall, fair, with blue eyes, and a Grecian profile
Damn him
Did you like him, Jane
Yes, Mr. Rochester, I liked him: but you asked me that before
Perhaps you would rather not sit any longer on my knee, Miss Eyre
Why not, Mr. Rochester
The picture you have just drawn is suggestive of a rather too overwhelming contrast. Your words have delineated very prettily a graceful Apollo: he is present to your imagination, -- tall, fair, blue-eyed, and with a Grecian profile. Your eyes dwell on a Vulcan, -- a real blacksmith, brown, broad-shouldered: and blind and lame into the bargain
I never thought of it, before; but you certainly are rather like Vulcan, sir
you will be pleased just to answer me a question or two
What questions, Mr. Rochester
St. John made you schoolmistress of Morton before he knew you were his cousin
Yes
You would often see him? He would visit the school sometimes
Daily
He would approve of your plans, Jane? I know they would be clever, for you are a talented creature
He approved of them -- yes
He would discover many things in you he could not have expected to find? Some of your accomplishments are not ordinary
I don't know about that
You had a little cottage near the school, you say: did he ever come there to see you
Now and then
Of an evening
Once or twice
How long did you reside with him and his sisters after the cousinship was discovered
Five months
Did Rivers spend much time with the ladies of his family
Yes; the back parlour was both his study and ours: he sat near the window, and we by the table
Did he study much
A good deal
What
Hindostanee
And what did you do meantime
I learnt German, at first
Did he teach you
He did not understand German
Did he teach you nothing
A little Hindostanee
Rivers taught you Hindostanee
Yes, sir
And his sisters also
No
Only you
Only me
Did you ask to learn
No
He wished to teach you
Yes
Why did he wish it? Of what use could Hindostanee be to you
He intended me to go with him to India
Ah! here I reach the root of the matter. He wanted you to marry him
He asked me to marry him
That is a fiction -- an impudent invention to vex me
I beg your pardon, it is the literal truth: he asked me more than once, and was as stiff about urging his point as ever you could be
Miss Eyre, I repeat it, you can leave me. How often am I to say the same thing? Why do you remain pertinaciously perched on my knee, when I have given you notice to quit
Because I am comfortable there
No, Jane, you are not comfortable there, because your heart is not with me: it is with this cousin -- this St. John. Oh, till this moment, I thought my little Jane was all mine! I had a belief she loved me even when she left me: that was an atom of sweet in much bitter. Long as we have been parted, hot tears as I have wept over our separation, I never thought that while I was mourning her, she was loving another! But it is useless grieving. Jane, leave me: go and marry Rivers
Shake me off, then, sir, -- push me away, for I'll not leave you of my own accord
Where must I go, sir
Your own way -- with the husband you have chosen
Who is that
You know -- this St. John Rivers
He is not my husband, nor ever will be. He does not love me: I do not love him. He loves (as he CAN love, and that is not as you love) a beautiful young lady called Rosamond. He wanted to marry me only because he thought I should make a suitable missionary's wife, which she would not have done. He is good and great, but severe; and, for me, cold as an iceberg. He is not like you, sir: I am not happy at his side, nor near him, nor with him. He has no indulgence for me -- no fondness. He sees nothing attractive in me; not even youth -- only a few useful mental points. -- Then I must leave you, sir, to go to him
What, Jane! Is this true? Is such really the state of matters between you and Rivers
Absolutely, sir! Oh, you need not be jealous! I wanted to tease you a little to make you less sad: I thought anger would be better than grief. But if you wish me to love you, could you but see how much I DO love you, you would be proud and content. All my heart is yours, sir: it belongs to you; and with you it would remain, were fate to exile the rest of me from your presence for ever
My scarred vision! My crippled strength
I am no better than the old lightning-struck chestnut-tree in Thornfield orchard
And what right would that ruin have to bid a budding woodbine cover its decay with freshness
You are no ruin, sir -- no lightning-struck tree: you are green and vigorous. Plants will grow about your roots, whether you ask them or not, because they take delight in your bountiful shadow; and as they grow they will lean towards you, and wind round you, because your strength offers them so safe a prop
You speak of friends, Jane
Yes, of friends
Ah! Jane. But I want a wife
Do you, sir
Yes: is it news to you
Of course: you said nothing about it before
Is it unwelcome news
That depends on circumstances, sir -- on your choice
Which you shall make for me, Jane. I will abide by your decision
Choose then, sir -- HER WHO LOVES YOU BEST
I will at least choose -- HER I LOVE BEST. Jane, will you marry me
Yes, sir
A poor blind man, whom you will have to lead about by the hand
Yes, sir
A crippled man, twenty years older than you, whom you will have to wait on
Yes, sir
Truly, Jane
Most truly, sir
Oh! my darling! God bless you and reward you
Mr. Rochester, if ever I did a good deed in my life -- if ever I thought a good thought -- if ever I prayed a sincere and blameless prayer -- if ever I wished a righteous wish, -- I am rewarded now. To be your wife is, for me, to be as happy as I can be on earth
Because you delight in sacrifice
Sacrifice! What do I sacrifice? Famine for food, expectation for content. To be privileged to put my arms round what I value -- to press my lips to what I love -- to repose on what I trust: is that to make a sacrifice? If so, then certainly I delight in sacrifice
And to bear with my infirmities, Jane: to overlook my deficiencies
Which are none, sir, to me. I love you better now, when I can really be useful to you, than I did in your state of proud independence, when you disdained every part but that of the giver and protector
Hitherto I have hated to be helped -- to be led: henceforth, I feel I shall hate it no more. I did not like to put my hand into a hireling's, but it is pleasant to feel it circled by Jane's little fingers. I preferred utter loneliness to the constant attendance of servants; but Jane's soft ministry will be a perpetual joy. Jane suits me: do I suit her
To the finest fibre of my nature, sir
The case being so, we have nothing in the world to wait for: we must be married instantly
We must become one flesh without any delay, Jane: there is but the licence to get -- then we marry
Mr. Rochester, I have just discovered the sun is far declined from its meridian, and Pilot is actually gone home to his dinner. Let me look at your watch
Fasten it into your girdle, Janet, and keep it henceforward: I have no use for it
It is nearly four o'clock in the afternoon, sir. Don't you feel hungry
The third day from this must be our wedding-day, Jane. Never mind fine clothes and jewels, now: all that is not worth a fillip
The sun has dried up all the rain-drops, sir. The breeze is still: it is quite hot
Do you know, Jane, I have your little pearl necklace at this moment fastened round my bronze scrag under my cravat? I have worn it since the day I lost my only treasure, as a memento of her
We will go home through the wood: that will be the shadiest way
Jane! you think me, I daresay, an irreligious dog: but my heart swells with gratitude to the beneficent God of this earth just now. He sees not as man sees, but far clearer: judges not as man judges, but far more wisely. I did wrong: I would have sullied my innocent flower -- breathed guilt on its purity: the Omnipotent snatched it from me. I, in my stiff-necked rebellion, almost cursed the dispensation: instead of bending to the decree, I defied it. Divine justice pursued its course; disasters came thick on me: I was forced to pass through the valley of the shadow of death. HIS chastisements are mighty; and one smote me which has humbled me for ever. You know I was proud of my strength: but what is it now, when I must give it over to foreign guidance, as a child does its weakness? Of late, Jane -- only -- only of late -- I began to see and acknowledge the hand of God in my doom. I began to experience remorse, repentance; the wish for reconcilement to my Maker. I began sometimes to pray: very brief prayers they were, but very sincere. "Some days since: nay, I can number them -- four; it was last Monday night, a singular mood came over me: one in which grief replaced frenzy -- sorrow, sullenness. I had long had the impression that since I could nowhere find you, you must be dead. Late that night -- perhaps it might be between eleven and twelve o'clock -- ere I retired to my dreary rest, I supplicated God, that, if it seemed good to Him, I might soon be taken from this life, and admitted to that world to come, where there was still hope of rejoining Jane. 

"I was in my own room, and sitting by the window, which was open: it soothed me to feel the balmy night-air; though I could see no stars and only by a vague, luminous haze, knew the presence of a moon. I longed for thee, Janet! Oh, I longed for thee both with soul and flesh! I asked of God, at once in anguish and humility, if I had not been long enough desolate, afflicted, tormented; and might not soon taste bliss and peace once more. That I merited all I endured, I acknowledged -- that I could scarcely endure more, I pleaded; and the alpha and omega of my heart's wishes broke involuntarily from my lips in the words -- 'Jane! Jane! Jane
Did you speak these words aloud
I did, Jane. If any listener had heard me, he would have thought me mad: I pronounced them with such frantic energy
And it was last Monday night, somewhere near midnight
Yes; but the time is of no consequence: what followed is the strange point. You will think me superstitious, -- some superstition I have in my blood, and always had: nevertheless, this is true -- true at least it is that I heard what I now relate. "As I exclaimed 'Jane! Jane! Jane!' a voice -- I cannot tell whence the voice came, but I know whose voice it was -- replied, 'I am coming: wait for me;' and a moment after, went whispering on the wind the words -- 'Where are you?' 

"I'll tell you, if I can, the idea, the picture these words opened to my mind: yet it is difficult to express what I want to express. Ferndean is buried, as you see, in a heavy wood, where sound falls dull, and dies unreverberating. 'Where are you?' seemed spoken amongst mountains; for I heard a hill-sent echo repeat the words. Cooler and fresher at the moment the gale seemed to visit my brow: I could have deemed that in some wild, lone scene, I and Jane were meeting. In spirit, I believe we must have met. You no doubt were, at that hour, in unconscious sleep, Jane: perhaps your soul wandered from its cell to comfort mine; for those were your accents -- as certain as I live -- they were yours
You cannot now wonder
that when you rose upon me so unexpectedly last night, I had difficulty in believing you any other than a mere voice and vision, something that would melt to silence and annihilation, as the midnight whisper and mountain echo had melted before. Now, I thank God! I know it to be otherwise. Yes, I thank God
I thank my Maker, that, in the midst of judgment, he has remembered mercy. I humbly entreat my Redeemer to give me strength to lead henceforth a purer life than I have done hitherto
Mary, I have been married to Mr. Rochester this morning
Have you, Miss? Well, for sure
I seed you go out with the master, but I didn't know you were gone to church to be wed
I telled Mary how it would be
I knew what Mr. Edward would do; and I was certain he would not wait long neither: and he's done right, for aught I know. I wish you joy, Miss
Thank you, John. Mr. Rochester told me to give you and Mary this
She'll happen do better for him nor ony o't' grand ladies
If she ben't one o' th' handsomest, she's noan faal and varry good-natured; and i' his een she's fair beautiful, onybody may see that
She had better not wait till then, Jane
if she does, she will be too late, for our honeymoon will shine our life long: its beams will only fade over your grave or mine
Jane, have you a glittering ornament round your neck
Yes
And have you a pale blue dress on
Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me
My Master
has forewarned me. Daily He announces more distinctly, -- 'Surely I come quickly!' and hourly I more eagerly respond, -- 'Amen; even so come, Lord Jesus
</text>
