<text>
I incline to Cain's heresy
I let my brother go to the devil in his own way
Did you ever remark that door
It is connected in my mind
with a very odd story
Indeed
and what was that
Well, it was this way
I was coming home from some place at the end of the world, about three o'clock of a black winter morning, and my way lay through a part of town where there was literally nothing to be seen but lamps. Street after street, and all the folks asleep -- street after street, all lighted up as if for a procession and all as empty as a church -- till at last I got into that state of mind when a man listens and listens and begins to long for the sight of a policeman. All at once, I saw two figures: one a little man who was stumping along eastward at a good walk, and the other a girl of maybe eight or ten who was running as hard as she was able down a cross street. Well, sir, the two ran into one another naturally enough at the corner; and then came the horrible part of the thing; for the man trampled calmly over the child's body and left her screaming on the ground. It sounds nothing to hear, but it was hellish to see. It wasn't like a man; it was like some damned Juggernaut. I gave a view-halloa, took to my heels, collared my gentleman, and brought him back to where there was already quite a group about the screaming child. He was perfectly cool and made no resistance, but gave me one look, so ugly that it brought out the sweat on me like running. The people who had turned out were the girl's own family; and pretty soon, the doctor, for whom she had been sent, put in his appearance. Well, the child was not much the worse, more frightened, according to the Sawbones; and there you might have supposed would be an end to it. But there was one curious circumstance. I had taken a loathing to my gentleman at first sight. So had the child's family, which was only natural. But the doctor's case was what struck me. He was the usual cut-and-dry apothecary, of no particular age and colour, with a strong Edinburgh accent, and about as emotional as a bagpipe. Well, sir, he was like the rest of us; every time he looked at my prisoner, I saw that Sawbones turn sick and white with the desire to kill him. I knew what was in his mind, just as he knew what was in mine; and killing being out of the question, we did the next best. We told the man we could and would make such a scandal out of this, as should make his name stink from one end of London to the other. If he had any friends or any credit, we undertook that he should lose them. And all the time, as we were pitching it in red hot, we were keeping the women off him as best we could, for they were as wild as harpies. I never saw a circle of such hateful faces; and there was the man in the middle, with a kind of black, sneering coolness -- frightened too, I could see that -- but carrying it off, sir, really like Satan. 'If you choose to make capital out of this accident,' said he, 'I am naturally helpless. No gentleman but wishes to avoid a scene,' says he. 'Name your figure.' Well, we screwed him up to a hundred pounds for the child's family; he would have clearly liked to stick out; but there was something about the lot of us that meant mischief, and at last he struck. The next thing was to get the money; and where do you think he carried us but to that place with the door?-- whipped out a key, went in, and presently came back with the matter of ten pounds in gold and a cheque for the balance on Coutts's, drawn payable to bearer and signed with a name that I can't mention, though it's one of the points of my story, but it was a name at least very well known and often printed. The figure was stiff; but the signature was good for more than that, if it was only genuine. I took the liberty of pointing out to my gentleman that the whole business looked apocryphal, and that a man does not, in real life, walk into a cellar door at four in the morning and come out of it with another man's cheque for close upon a hundred pounds. But he was quite easy and sneering. 'Set your mind at rest,' says he, 'I will stay with you till the banks open and cash the cheque myself.' So we all set off, the doctor, and the child's father, and our friend and myself, and passed the rest of the night in my chambers; and next day, when we had breakfasted, went in a body to the bank. I gave in the check myself, and said I had every reason to believe it was a forgery. Not a bit of it. The cheque was genuine
Tut-tut
I see you feel as I do
Yes, it's a bad story. For my man was a fellow that nobody could have to do with, a really damnable man; and the person that drew the cheque is the very pink of the proprieties, celebrated too, and (what makes it worse) one of your fellows who do what they call good. Black-mail, I suppose; an honest man paying through the nose for some of the capers of his youth. Black-Mail House is what I call that place with the door, in consequence. Though even that, you know, is far from explaining all
And you don't know if the drawer of the cheque lives there
A likely place, isn't it
But I happen to have noticed his address; he lives in some square or other
And you never asked about the -- place with the door
No, sir: I had a delicacy
I feel very strongly about putting questions; it partakes too much of the style of the day of judgment. You start a question, and it's like starting a stone. You sit quietly on the top of a hill; and away the stone goes, starting others; and presently some bland old bird (the last you would have thought of) is knocked on the head in his own back-garden and the family have to change their name. No, sir, I make it a rule of mine: the more it looks like Queer Street, the less I ask
A very good rule, too
But I have studied the place for myself
It seems scarcely a house. There is no other door, and nobody goes in or out of that one but, once in a great while, the gentleman of my adventure. There are three windows looking on the court on the first floor; none below; the windows are always shut but they're clean. And then there is a chimney which is generally smoking; so somebody must live there. And yet it's not so sure; for the buildings are so packed together about that court, that it's hard to say where one ends and another begins
Enfield
that's a good rule of yours
Yes, I think it is
But for all that
there's one point I want to ask: I want to ask the name of that man who walked over the child
Well
I can't see what harm it would do. It was a man of the name of Hyde
H'm
What sort of a man is he to see
He is not easy to describe. There is something wrong with his appearance; something displeasing, something downright detestable. I never saw a man I so disliked, and yet I scarce know why. He must be deformed somewhere; he gives a strong feeling of deformity, although I couldn't specify the point. He's an extraordinary-looking man, and yet I really can name nothing out of the way. No, sir; I can make no hand of it; I can't describe him. And it's not want of memory; for I declare I can see him this moment
You are sure he used a key
My dear sir
Yes, I know
I know it must seem strange. The fact is, if I do not ask you the name of the other party, it is because I know it already. You see, Richard, your tale has gone home. If you have been inexact in any point, you had better correct it
I think you might have warned me
But I have been pedantically exact, as you call it. The fellow had a key; and what's more, he has it still. I saw him use it, not a week ago
Here is another lesson to say nothing
I am ashamed of my long tongue. Let us make a bargain never to refer to this again
With all my heart
I shake hands on that, Richard
friend and benefactor Edward Hyde
disappearance or unexplained absence for any period exceeding three calendar months
I thought it was madness
and now I begin to fear it is disgrace
If any one knows, it will be Lanyon
I suppose, Lanyon
you and I must be the two oldest friends that Henry Jekyll has
I wish the friends were younger
But I suppose we are. And what of that? I see little of him now
Indeed
I thought you had a bond of common interest
We had
But it is more than ten years since Henry Jekyll became too fanciful for me. He began to go wrong, wrong in mind; and though of course I continue to take an interest in him for old sake's sake, as they say, I see and I have seen devilish little of the man. Such unscientific balderdash
would have estranged Damon and Pythias
They have only differed on some point of science
It is nothing worse than that
Did you ever come across a protege of his -- one Hyde
Hyde
No. Never heard of him. Since my time
If he be Mr. Hyde
I shall be Mr. Seek
Mr. Hyde, I think
That is my name. What do you want
I see you are going in
I am an old friend of Dr. Jekyll's -- Mr. Utterson of Gaunt Street -- you must have heard my name; and meeting you so conveniently, I thought you might admit me
You will not find Dr. Jekyll; he is from home
How did you know me
On your side
will you do me a favour
With pleasure
What shall it be
Will you let me see your face
Now I shall know you again
It may be useful
Yes
it is as well we have, met; and a propos, you should have my address
Good God
can he, too, have been thinking of the will
And now
how did you know me
By description
Whose description
We have common friends
Common friends
Who are they
Jekyll, for instance
He never told you
I did not think you would have lied
Come
that is not fitting language
There must be something else
There is something more, if I could find a name for it. God bless me, the man seems hardly human! Something troglodytic, shall we say? or can it be the old story of Dr. Fell? or is it the mere radiance of a foul soul that thus transpires through, and transfigures, its clay continent? The last, I think; for, O my poor old Harry Jekyll, if ever I read Satan's signature upon a face, it is on that of your new friend
Is Dr. Jekyll at home, Poole
I will see, Mr. Utterson
Will you wait here by the fire, sir? or shall I give you a light in the dining room
Here, thank you
I saw Mr. Hyde go in by the old dissecting-room door, Poole
Is that right, when Dr. Jekyll is from home
Quite right, Mr. Utterson, sir
Mr. Hyde has a key
Your master seems to repose a great deal of trust in that young man, Poole
Yes, sir, he do indeed
We have all orders to obey him
I do not think I ever met Mr. Hyde
O, dear no, sir. He never dines here
Indeed we see very little of him on this side of the house; he mostly comes and goes by the laboratory
Well, good-night, Poole
Good-night, Mr. Utterson
Poor Harry Jekyll
my mind misgives me he is in deep waters! He was wild when he was young; a long while ago to be sure; but in the law of God, there is no statute of limitations. Ay, it must be that; the ghost of some old sin, the cancer of some concealed disgrace: punishment coming, PEDE CLAUDO, years after memory has forgotten and self-love condoned the fault
This Master Hyde, if he were studied
must have secrets of his own; black secrets, by the look of him; secrets compared to which poor Jekyll's worst would be like sunshine. Things cannot continue as they are. It turns me cold to think of this creature stealing like a thief to Harry's bedside; poor Harry, what a wakening! And the danger of it; for if this Hyde suspects the existence of the will, he may grow impatient to inherit. Ay, I must put my shoulder to the wheel if Jekyll will but let me
if Jekyll will only let me
I have been wanting to speak to you, Jekyll
You know that will of yours
My poor Utterson
you are unfortunate in such a client. I never saw a man so distressed as you were by my will; unless it were that hide-bound pedant, Lanyon, at what he called my scientific heresies. Oh, I know he's a good fellow -- you needn't frown -- an excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more of him; but a hide-bound pedant for all that; an ignorant, blatant pedant. I was never more disappointed in any man than Lanyon
You know I never approved of it
My will? Yes, certainly, I know that
You have told me so
Well, I tell you so again
I have been learning something of young Hyde
I do not care to hear more
This is a matter I thought we had agreed to drop
What I heard was abominable
It can make no change. You do not understand my position
I am painfully situated, Utterson; my position is a very strange -- a very strange one. It is one of those affairs that cannot be mended by talking
Jekyll
you know me: I am a man to be trusted. Make a clean breast of this in confidence; and I make no doubt I can get you out of it
My good Utterson
this is very good of you, this is downright good of you, and I cannot find words to thank you in. I believe you fully; I would trust you before any man alive, ay, before myself, if I could make the choice; but indeed it isn't what you fancy; it is not so bad as that; and just to put your good heart at rest, I will tell you one thing: the moment I choose, I can be rid of Mr. Hyde. I give you my hand upon that; and I thank you again and again; and I will just add one little word, Utterson, that I'm sure you'll take in good part: this is a private matter, and I beg of you to let it sleep
I have no doubt you are perfectly right
Well, but since we have touched upon this business, and for the last time I hope
there is one point I should like you to understand. I have really a very great interest in poor Hyde. I know you have seen him; he told me so; and I fear he was rude. But, I do sincerely take a great, a very great interest in that young man; and if I am taken away, Utterson, I wish you to promise me that you will bear with him and get his rights for him. I think you would, if you knew all; and it would be a weight off my mind if you would promise
I can't pretend that I shall ever like him
I don't ask that
I only ask for justice; I only ask you to help him for my sake, when I am no longer here
Well
I promise
I shall say nothing till I have seen the body
this may be very serious. Have the kindness to wait while I dress
Yes
I recognise him. I am sorry to say that this is Sir Danvers Carew
Good God, sir
is it possible
This will make a deal of noise
And perhaps you can help us to the man
Is this Mr. Hyde a person of small stature
Particularly small and particularly wicked-looking, is what the maid calls him
If you will come with me in my cab
I think I can take you to his house
Very well, then, we wish to see his rooms
I had better tell you who this person is
This is Inspector Newcomen of Scotland Yard
Ah
he is in trouble! What has he done
He don't seem a very popular character
And now, my good woman, just let me and this gentleman have a look about us
You may depend upon it, sir
I have him in my hand. He must have lost his head, or he never would have left the stick or, above all, burned the cheque-book. Why, money's life to the man. We have nothing to do but wait for him at the bank, and get out the handbills
And now
you have heard the news
They were crying it in the square
I heard them in my dining-room
One word
Carew was my client, but so are you, and I want to know what I am doing. You have not been mad enough to hide this fellow
Utterson, I swear to God
I swear to God I will never set eyes on him again. I bind my honour to you that I am done with him in this world. It is all at an end. And indeed he does not want my help; you do not know him as I do; he is safe, he is quite safe; mark my words, he will never more be heard of
You seem pretty sure of him
and for your sake, I hope you may be right. If it came to a trial, your name might appear
I am quite sure of him
I have grounds for certainty that I cannot share with any one. But there is one thing on which you may advise me. I have -- I have received a letter; and I am at a loss whether I should show it to the police. I should like to leave it in your hands, Utterson; you would judge wisely, I am sure; I have so great a trust in you
You fear, I suppose, that it might lead to his detection
No
I cannot say that I care what becomes of Hyde; I am quite done with him. I was thinking of my own character, which this hateful business has rather exposed
Well
let me see the letter
Have you the envelope
I burned it
before I thought what I was about. But it bore no postmark. The note was handed in
Shall I keep this and sleep upon it
I wish you to judge for me entirely
I have lost confidence in myself
Well, I shall consider
And now one word more: it was Hyde who dictated the terms in your will about that disappearance
I knew it
He meant to murder you. You have had a fine escape
I have had what is far more to the purpose
I have had a lesson -- O God, Utterson, what a lesson I have had
By the by
there was a letter handed in to-day: what was the messenger like
and only circulars by that
Special edition. Shocking murder of an M. P
This is a sad business about Sir Danvers
Yes, sir, indeed. It has elicited a great deal of public feeling
The man, of course, was mad
I should like to hear your views on that
I have a document here in his handwriting; it is between ourselves, for I scarce know what to do about it; it is an ugly business at the best. But there it is; quite in your way a murderer's autograph
No, sir
not mad; but it is an odd hand
And by all accounts a very odd writer
Is that from Dr. Jekyll, sir
I thought I knew the writing. Anything private, Mr. Utterson
Only an invitation to dinner. Why? Do you want to see it
Thank you, sir
it's a very interesting autograph
Why did you compare them, Guest
Well, sir
there's a rather singular resemblance; the two hands are in many points identical: only differently sloped
Rather quaint
It is, as you say, rather quaint
I wouldn't speak of this note, you know
No, sir
I understand
What
Henry Jekyll forge for a murderer
The doctor was confined to the house
and saw no one
Yes
he is a doctor, he must know his own state and that his days are counted; and the knowledge is more than he can bear
I have had a shock
and I shall never recover. It is a question of weeks. Well, life has been pleasant; I liked it; yes, sir, I used to like it. I sometimes think if we knew all, we should be more glad to get away
Jekyll is ill, too
Have you seen him
I wish to see or hear no more of Dr. Jekyll
I am quite done with that person; and I beg that you will spare me any allusion to one whom I regard as dead
Tut-tut
Can't I do anything
We are three very old friends, Lanyon; we shall not live to make others
Nothing can be done
ask himself
He will not see me
I am not surprised at that
Some day, Utterson, after I am dead, you may perhaps come to learn the right and wrong of this. I cannot tell you. And in the meantime, if you can sit and talk with me of other things, for God's sake, stay and do so; but if you cannot keep clear of this accursed topic, then, in God's name, go, for I cannot bear it
I do not blame our old friend
but I share his view that we must never meet. I mean from henceforth to lead a life of extreme seclusion; you must not be surprised, nor must you doubt my friendship, if my door is often shut even to you. You must suffer me to go my own dark way. I have brought on myself a punishment and a danger that I cannot name. If I am the chief of sinners, I am the chief of sufferers also. I could not think that this earth contained a place for sufferings and terrors so unmanning; and you can do but one thing, Utterson, to lighten this destiny, and that is to respect my silence
PRIVATE: for the hands of G. J. Utterson ALONE and in case of his predecease to be destroyed unread
I have buried one friend to-day
what if this should cost me another
not to be opened till the death or disappearance of Dr. Henry Jekyll
Well
that story's at an end at least. We shall never see more of Mr. Hyde
I hope not
Did I ever tell you that I once saw him, and shared your feeling of repulsion
It was impossible to do the one without the other
And by the way, what an ass you must have thought me, not to know that this was a back way to Dr. Jekyll's! It was partly your own fault that I found it out, even when I did
So you found it out, did you
But if that be so, we may step into the court and take a look at the windows. To tell you the truth, I am uneasy about poor Jekyll; and even outside, I feel as if the presence of a friend might do him good
What! Jekyll
I trust you are better
I am very low, Utterson
very low. It will not last long, thank God
You stay too much indoors
You should be out, whipping up the circulation like Mr. Enfield and me. (This is my cousin -- Mr. Enfield -- Dr. Jekyll.) Come, now; get your hat and take a quick turn with us
You are very good
I should like to very much; but no, no, no, it is quite impossible; I dare not. But indeed, Utterson, I am very glad to see you; this is really a great pleasure; I would ask you and Mr. Enfield up, but the place is really not fit
Why then
the best thing we can do is to stay down here and speak with you from where we are
That is just what I was about to venture to propose
God forgive us, God forgive us
Bless me, Poole, what brings you here
What ails you
is the doctor ill
Mr. Utterson
there is something wrong
Take a seat, and here is a glass of wine for you
Now, take your time, and tell me plainly what you want
You know the doctor's ways, sir
and how he shuts himself up. Well, he's shut up again in the cabinet; and I don't like it, sir -- I wish I may die if I like it. Mr. Utterson, sir, I'm afraid
Now, my good man
be explicit. What are you afraid of
I've been afraid for about a week
and I can bear it no more
I can bear it no more
Come
I see you have some good reason, Poole; I see there is something seriously amiss. Try to tell me what it is
I think there's been foul play
Foul play
What foul play? What does the man mean
I daren't say, sir
but will you come along with me and see for yourself
Well, sir
here we are, and God grant there be nothing wrong
Amen, Poole
Is that you, Poole
It's all right
Open the door
Bless God! it's Mr. Utterson
What, what? Are you all here
Very irregular, very unseemly; your master would be far from pleased
They're all afraid
Hold your tongue
And now
reach me a candle, and we'll get this through hands at once
Now, sir
you come as gently as you can. I want you to hear, and I don't want you to be heard. And see here, sir, if by any chance he was to ask you in, don't go
Mr. Utterson, sir, asking to see you
Tell him I cannot see any one
Thank you, sir
Sir
was that my master's voice
It seems much changed
Changed? Well, yes, I think so
Have I been twenty years in this man's house, to be deceived about his voice? No, sir; master's made away with; he was made, away with eight days ago, when we heard him cry out upon the name of God; and who's in there instead of him, and why it stays there, is a thing that cries to Heaven, Mr. Utterson
This is a very strange tale, Poole; this is rather a wild tale, my man
Suppose it were as you suppose, supposing Dr. Jekyll to have been -- well, murdered, what could induce the murderer to stay? That won't hold water; it doesn't commend itself to reason
Well, Mr. Utterson, you are a hard man to satisfy, but I'll do it yet
All this last week (you must know) him, or it, or whatever it is that lives in that cabinet, has been crying night and day for some sort of medicine and cannot get it to his mind. It was sometimes his way -- the master's, that is -- to write his orders on a sheet of paper and throw it on the stair. We've had nothing else this week back; nothing but papers, and a closed door, and the very meals left there to be smuggled in when nobody was looking. Well, sir, every day, ay, and twice and thrice in the same day, there have been orders and complaints, and I have been sent flying to all the wholesale chemists in town. Every time I brought the stuff back, there would be another paper telling me to return it, because it was not pure, and another order to a different firm. This drug is wanted bitter bad, sir, whatever for
Have you any of these papers
Dr. Jekyll presents his compliments to Messrs. Maw. He assures them that their last sample is impure and quite useless for his present purpose. In the year 18 ---, Dr. J. purchased a somewhat large quantity from Messrs. M. He now begs them to search with the most sedulous care, and should any of the same quality be left, to forward it to him at once. Expense is no consideration. The importance of this to Dr. J. can hardly be exaggerated
For God's sake
find me some of the old
This is a strange note
How do you come to have it open
The man at Maw's was main angry, sir, and he threw it back to me like so much dirt
This is unquestionably the doctor's hand, do you know
I thought it looked like it
But what matters hand-of-write
I've seen him
Seen him
Well
That's it
It was this way. I came suddenly into the theatre from the garden. It seems he had slipped out to look for this drug or whatever it is; for the cabinet door was open, and there he was at the far end of the room digging among the crates. He looked up when I came in, gave a kind of cry, and whipped up-stairs into the cabinet. It was but for one minute that I saw him, but the hair stood upon my head like quills. Sir, if that was my master, why had he a mask upon his face? If it was my master, why did he cry out like a rat, and run from me? I have served him long enough. And then
These are all very strange circumstances
but I think I begin to see daylight. Your master, Poole, is plainly seized with one of those maladies that both torture and deform the sufferer; hence, for aught I know, the alteration of his voice; hence the mask and the avoidance of his friends; hence his eagerness to find this drug, by means of which the poor soul retains some hope of ultimate recovery -- God grant that he be not deceived! There is my explanation; it is sad enough, Poole, ay, and appalling to consider; but it is plain and natural, hangs well together, and delivers us from all exorbitant alarms
Sir
is a tall, fine build of a man, and this was more of a dwarf
O, sir
do you think I do not know my master after twenty years? Do you think I do not know where his head comes to in the cabinet door, where I saw him every morning of my life? No, Sir, that thing in the mask was never Dr. Jekyll -- God knows what it was, but it was never Dr. Jekyll; and it is the belief of my heart that there was murder done
Poole
if you say that, it will become my duty to make certain. Much as I desire to spare your master's feelings, much as I am puzzled by this note which seems to prove him to be still alive, I shall consider it my duty to break in that door
Ah Mr. Utterson, that's talking
And now comes the second question
Who is going to do it
Why, you and me
That's very well said
and whatever comes of it, I shall make it my business to see you are no loser
There is an axe in the theatre
and you might take the kitchen poker for yourself
Do you know, Poole
that you and I are about to place ourselves in a position of some peril
You may say so, sir, indeed
It is well, then, that we should be frank
We both think more than we have said; let us make a clean breast. This masked figure that you saw, did you recognise it
Well, sir, it went so quick, and the creature was so doubled up, that I could hardly swear to that
But if you mean, was it Mr. Hyde?-- why, yes, I think it was! You see, it was much of the same bigness; and it had the same quick, light way with it; and then who else could have got in by the laboratory door? You have not forgot, sir that at the time of the murder he had still the key with him? But that's not all. I don't know, Mr. Utterson, if ever you met this Mr. Hyde
Yes
I once spoke with him
Then you must know as well as the rest of us that there was something queer about that gentleman -- something that gave a man a turn -- I don't know rightly how to say it, sir, beyond this: that you felt it in your marrow kind of cold and thin
I own I felt something of what you describe
Quite so, sir
Well, when that masked thing like a monkey jumped from among the chemicals and whipped into the cabinet, it went down my spine like ice. Oh, I know it's not evidence, Mr. Utterson. I'm book-learned enough for that; but a man has his feelings, and I give you my Bible-word it was Mr. Hyde
Ay, ay
My fears incline to the same point. Evil, I fear, founded -- evil was sure to come -- of that connection. Ay, truly, I believe you; I believe poor Harry is killed; and I believe his murderer (for what purpose, God alone can tell) is still lurking in his victim's room. Well, let our name be vengeance. Call Bradshaw
Pull yourself together, Bradshaw
This suspense, I know, is telling upon all of you; but it is now our intention to make an end of it. Poole, here, and I are going to force our way into the cabinet. If all is well, my shoulders are broad enough to bear the blame. Meanwhile, lest anything should really be amiss, or any malefactor seek to escape by the back, you and the boy must go round the corner with a pair of good sticks and take your post at the laboratory door. We give you ten minutes to get to your stations
And now, Poole, let us get to ours
So it will walk all day, sir
ay, and the better part of the night. Only when a new sample comes from the chemist, there's a bit of a break. Ah, it's an ill conscience that's such an enemy to rest! Ah, sir, there's blood foully shed in every step of it! But hark again, a little closer -- put your heart in your ears, Mr. Utterson, and tell me, is that the doctor's foot
Is there never anything else
Once
Once I heard it weeping
Weeping? how that
Weeping like a woman or a lost soul
I came away with that upon my heart, that I could have wept too
Jekyll
I demand to see you
I give you fair warning, our suspicions are aroused, and I must and shall see you
if not by fair means, then by foul! if not of your consent, then by brute force
Utterson
for God's sake, have mercy
Ah, that's not Jekyll's voice -- it's Hyde's
Down with the door, Poole
We have come too late
whether to save or punish. Hyde is gone to his account; and it only remains for us to find the body of your master
He must be buried here
Or he may have fled
This does not look like use
Use
Do you not see, sir, it is broken? much as if a man had stamped on it
Ay
and the fractures, too, are rusty
This is beyond me, Poole
Let us go back to the cabinet
That is the same drug that I was always bringing him
This glass have seen some strange things, sir
And surely none stranger than itself
For what did Jekyll
what could Jekyll want with it
You may say that
My head goes round
He has been all these days in possession; he had no cause to like me; he must have raged to see himself displaced; and he has not destroyed this document
O Poole
he was alive and here this day. He cannot have been disposed of in so short a space, he must be still alive, he must have fled! And then, why fled? and how? and in that case, can we venture to declare this suicide? Oh, we must be careful. I foresee that we may yet involve your master in some dire catastrophe
Why don't you read it, sir
Because I fear
God grant I have no cause for it
HENRY JEKYLL
There was a third enclosure
Here, sir
I would say nothing of this paper. If your master has fled or is dead, we may at least save his credit. It is now ten; I must go home and read these documents in quiet; but I shall be back before midnight, when we shall send for the police
10th December, 18 --- "DEAR LANYON, You are one of my oldest friends; and although we may have differed at times on scientific questions, I cannot remember, at least on my side, any break in our affection. There was never a day when, if you had said to me, 'Jekyll, my life, my honour, my reason, depend upon you,' I would not have sacrificed my left hand to help you. Lanyon, my life, my honour my reason, are all at your mercy; if you fail me to-night I am lost. You might suppose, after this preface, that I am going to ask you for something dishonourable to grant. Judge for yourself. 

"I want you to postpone all other engagements for to-night -- ay, even if you were summoned to the bedside of an emperor; to take a cab, unless your carriage should be actually at the door; and with this letter in your hand for consultation, to drive straight to my house. Poole, my butler, has his orders; you will find, him waiting your arrival with a locksmith. The door of my cabinet is then to be forced: and you are to go in alone; to open the glazed press (letter E) on the left hand, breaking the lock if it be shut; and to draw out, with all its contents as they stand, the fourth drawer from the top or (which is the same thing) the third from the bottom. In my extreme distress of wind, I have a morbid fear of misdirecting you; but even if I am in error, you may know the right drawer by its contents: some powders, a phial and a paper book. This drawer I beg of you to carry back with you to Cavendish Square exactly as it stands. 

"That is the first part of the service: now for the second. You should be back, if you set out at once on the receipt of this, long before midnight; but I will leave you that amount of margin, not only in the fear of one of those obstacles that can neither be prevented nor foreseen, but because an hour when your servants are in bed is to be preferred for what will then remain to do. At midnight, then, I have to ask you to be alone in your consulting-room, to admit with your own hand into the house a man who will present himself in my name, and to place in his hands the drawer that you will have brought with you from my cabinet. Then you will have played your part and earned my gratitude completely. Five minutes afterwards, if you insist upon an explanation, you will have understood that these arrangements are of capital importance; and that by the neglect of one of them, fantastic as they must appear, you might have charged your conscience with my death or the shipwreck of my reason. 

"Confident as I am that you will not trifle with this appeal, my heart sinks and my hand trembles at the bare thought of such a possibility. Think of me at this hour, in a strange place, labouring under a blackness of distress that no fancy can exaggerate, and yet well aware that, if you will but punctually serve me, my troubles will roll away like a story that is told. Serve me, my dear Lanyon, and save "Your friend, 

"H. J. 

"P. S. I had already sealed this up when a fresh terror struck upon my soul. It is possible that the postoffice may fail me, and this letter not come into your hands until to-morrow morning. In that case, dear Lanyon, do my errand when it shall be most convenient for you in the course of the day; and once more expect my messenger at midnight. It may then already be too late; and if that night passes without event, you will know that you have seen the last of Henry Jekyll
total failure
Are you come from Dr. Jekyll
Have you got it
Have you got it
Come, sir
You forget that I have not yet the pleasure of your acquaintance. Be seated, if you please
I beg your pardon, Dr. Lanyon
What you say is very well founded; and my impatience has shown its heels to my politeness. I come here at the instance of your colleague, Dr. Henry Jekyll, on a piece of business of some moment; and I understood
I understood, a drawer
There it is, sir
Compose yourself
Have you a graduated glass
And now
to settle what remains. Will you be wise? will you be guided? will you suffer me to take this glass in my hand and to go forth from your house without further parley? or has the greed of curiosity too much command of you? Think before you answer, for it shall be done as you decide. As you decide, you shall be left as you were before, and neither richer nor wiser, unless the sense of service rendered to a man in mortal distress may be counted as a kind of riches of the soul. Or, if you shall so prefer to choose, a new province of knowledge and new avenues to fame and power shall be laid open to you, here, in this room, upon the instant; and your sight shall be blasted by a prodigy to stagger the unbelief of Satan
Sir
you speak enigmas, and you will perhaps not wonder that I hear you with no very strong impression of belief. But I have gone too far in the way of inexplicable services to pause before I see the end
It is well
Lanyon, you remember your vows: what follows is under the seal of our profession. And now, you who have so long been bound to the most narrow and material views, you who have denied the virtue of transcendental medicine, you who have derided your superiors -- behold
O God
O God
</text>
