<text>
Aunt have got a great fuel-house, and it could be put there, perhaps, till you've found a place to settle in, sir
A proper good notion
Sorry I am going, Jude
So am I
Why do you go, sir
Ah -- that would be a long story. You wouldn't understand my reasons, Jude. You will, perhaps, when you are older
I think I should now, sir
Well -- don't speak of this everywhere. You know what a university is, and a university degree? It is the necessary hallmark of a man who wants to do anything in teaching. My scheme, or dream, is to be a university graduate, and then to be ordained. By going to live at Christminster, or near it, I shall be at headquarters, so to speak, and if my scheme is practicable at all, I consider that being on the spot will afford me a better chance of carrying it out than I should have elsewhere
I shan't forget you, Jude
Be a good boy, remember; and be kind to animals and birds, and read all you can. And if ever you come to Christminster remember you hunt me out for old acquaintance' sake
I've seen him look down into it, when he was tired with his drawing, just as I do now, and when he rested a bit before carrying the buckets home! But he was too clever to bide here any longer -- a small sleepy place like this
Bring on that water, will ye, you idle young harlican
Drusilla Fawley, Baker
And who's he
Well ye med ask it, Mrs. Williams. He's my great-nephew -- come since you was last this way
It would ha' been a blessing if Goddy-mighty had took thee too, wi' thy mother and father, poor useless boy! But I've got him here to stay with me till I can see what's to be done with un, though I am obliged to let him earn any penny he can. Just now he's a-scaring of birds for Farmer Troutham. It keeps him out of mischty. Why do ye turn away, Jude
to kip 'ee company in your loneliness, fetch water, shet the winder-shetters o' nights, and help in the bit o' baking
Why didn't ye get the schoolmaster to take 'ee to Christminster wi' un, and make a scholar of 'ee
I'm sure he couldn't ha' took a better one. The boy is crazy for books, that he is. It runs in our family rather. His cousin Sue is just the same -- so I've heard; but I have not seen the child for years, though she was born in this place, within these four walls, as it happened. My niece and her husband, after they were married, didn' get a house of their own for some year or more; and then they only had one till -- Well, I won't go into that. Jude, my child, don't you ever marry. 'Tisn't for the Fawleys to take that step any more. She, their only one, was like a child o' my own, Belinda, till the split come! Ah, that a little maid should know such changes
How ugly it is here
Poor little dears
You SHALL have some dinner -- you shall. There is enough for us all. Farmer Troutham can afford to let you have some. Eat, then my dear little birdies, and make a good meal
So it's 'Eat my dear birdies,' is it, young man? 'Eat, dear birdies,' indeed! I'll tickle your breeches, and see if you say, 'Eat, dear birdies,' again in a hurry! And you've been idling at the schoolmaster's too, instead of coming here, ha'n't ye, hey? That's how you earn your sixpence a day for keeping the rooks off my corn
Don't 'ee, sir -- please don't 'ee
I -- I sir -- only meant that -- there was a good crop in the ground -- I saw 'em sow it -- and the rooks could have a little bit for dinner -- and you wouldn't miss it, sir -- and Mr. Phillotson said I was to be kind to 'em -- oh, oh, oh
Well, how do you come to be back here in the middle of the morning like this
I'm turned away
What
Mr. Troutham have turned me away because I let the rooks have a few peckings of corn. And there's my wages -- the last I shall ever hae
Ah
If you can't skeer birds, what can ye do? There! don't ye look so deedy! Farmer Troutham is not so much better than myself, come to that. But 'tis as Job said, 'Now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock.' His father was my father's journeyman, anyhow, and I must have been a fool to let 'ee go to work for 'n, which I shouldn't ha' done but to keep 'ee out of mischty
Not that you should have let the birds eat what Farmer Troutham planted. Of course you was wrong in that. Jude, Jude, why didstn't go off with that schoolmaster of thine to Christminster or somewhere? But, oh no -- poor or'nary child -- there never was any sprawl on thy side of the family, and never will be
Where is this beautiful city, Aunt -- this place where Mr. Phillotson is gone to
Lord! you ought to know where the city of Christminster is. Near a score of miles from here. It is a place much too good for you ever to have much to do with, poor boy, I'm a-thinking
And will Mr. Phillotson always be there
How can I tell
Could I go to see him
Lord, no! You didn't grow up hereabout, or you wouldn't ask such as that. We've never had anything to do with folk in Christminster, nor folk in Christminster with we
Christminster? Oh, well, out by there yonder; though I've never bin there -- not I. I've never had any business at such a place
ridgeway
Well, my lad, and what may you want up here
I wanted to know where the city of Christminster is, if you please
Christminster is out across there, by that clump. You can see it -- at least you can on a clear day. Ah, no, you can't now
You can't often see it in weather like this
The time I've noticed it is when the sun is going down in a blaze of flame, and it looks like -- I don't know what
The heavenly Jerusalem
Ay -- though I should never ha' thought of it myself.... But I can't see no Christminster to-day
You
were in Christminster city between one and two hours ago, floating along the streets, pulling round the weather-cocks, touching Mr. Phillotson's face, being breathed by him; and now you are here, breathed by me -- you, the very same
We are happy here
Heaven forbid, with this load
The place I mean is that one yonder
Yes. There do seem a spot a bit brighter in the nor'-east than elsewhere, though I shouldn't ha' noticed it myself, and no doubt it med be Christminster
Ah, young man
you'd have to get your head screwed on t'other way before you could read what they read there
Why
Oh, they never look at anything that folks like we can understand
On'y foreign tongues used in the days of the Tower of Babel, when no two families spoke alike. They read that sort of thing as fast as a night-hawk will whir. 'Tis all learning there -- nothing but learning, except religion. And that's learning too, for I never could understand it. Yes, 'tis a serious-minded place. Not but there's wenches in the streets o' nights... You know, I suppose, that they raisepa's ons there like radishes in a bed? And though it do take -- how many years, Bob?-- five years to turn a lirruping hobble-de-hoy chap into a solemn preaching man with no corrupt passions, they'll do it, if it can be done, and polish un off like the workmen they be, and turn un out wi' a long face, and a long black coat and waistcoat, and a religious collar and hat, same as they used to wear in the Scriptures, so that his own mother wouldn't know un sometimes.... There, 'tis their business, like anybody else's
Now don't you interrupt, my boy. Never interrupt your senyers. Move the fore hoss aside, Bobby; here's som'at coming... You must mind that I be a-talking of the college life. 'Em lives on a lofty level; there's no gainsaying it, though I myself med not think much of 'em. As we be here in our bodies on this high ground, so be they in their minds -- noble-minded men enough, no doubt -- some on 'em -- able to earn hundreds by thinking out loud. And some on 'em be strong young fellows that can earn a'most as much in silver cups. As for music, there's beautiful music everywhere in Christminster. You med be religious, or you med not, but you can't help striking in your homely note with the rest. And there's a street in the place -- the main street -- that ha'n't another like it in the world. I should think I did know a little about Christminster
Well, 'tis oonly what has come in my way
I've never been there, no more than you; but I've picked up the knowledge here and there, and you be welcome to it. A-getting about the world as I do, and mixing with all classes of society, one can't help hearing of things. A friend o' mine, that used to clane the boots at the Crozier Hotel in Christminster when he was in his prime, why, I knowed un as well as my own brother in his later years
It is a city of light
The tree of knowledge grows there
It is a place that teachers of men spring from and go to
It is what you may call a castle, manned by scholarship and religion
It would just suit me
Well, my man! I'm in a hurry, so you'll have to walk pretty fast if you keep alongside of me. Do you know who I am
Yes, I think. Physician Vilbert
Ah -- I'm known everywhere, I see! That comes of being a public benefactor
I s'pose you've been to Christminster, Physician
I have -- many times
That's one of my centres
It's a wonderful city for scholarship and religion
You'd say so, my boy, if you'd seen it. Why, the very sons of the old women who do the washing of the colleges can talk in Latin -- not good Latin, that I admit, as a critic: dog-Latin -- cat-Latin, as we used to call it in my undergraduate days
And Greek
Well -- that's more for the men who are in training for bishops, that they may be able to read the New Testament in the original
I want to learn Latin and Greek myself
A lofty desire. You must get a grammar of each tongue
I mean to go to Christminster some day
Whenever you do, you say that Physician Vilbert is the only proprietor of those celebrated pills that infallibly cure all disorders of the alimentary system, as well as asthma and shortness of breath. Two and threepence a box -- specially licensed by the government stamp
Can you get me the grammars if I promise to say it hereabout
I'll sell you mine with pleasure -- those I used as a student
Oh, thank you, sir
I think you'd better drop behind, my young man. Now I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll get you the grammars, and give you a first lesson, if you'll remember, at every house in the village, to recommend Physician Vilbert's golden ointment, life-drops, and female pills
Where will you be with the grammars
I shall be passing here this day fortnight at precisely this hour of five-and-twenty minutes past seven. My movements are as truly timed as those of the planets in their courses
Here I'll be to meet you
With orders for my medicines
Yes, Physician
Well, my boy
I've come
You? who are you? Oh yes -- to be sure! Got any orders, lad
Yes
And the Latin and Greek grammars
What about them
You were to bring me yours, that you used before you took your degree
Ah, yes, yes! Forgot all about it -- all! So many lives depending on my attention, you see, my man, that I can't give so much thought as I would like to other things
You haven't brought 'em
No. But you must get me some more orders from sick people, and I'll bring the grammars next time
private study
Two to-day, baker, and I return this stale one
Carmen Saeculare
Phoebe silvarumque potens Diana
I have acquired quite an average student's power to read the common ancient classics, Latin in particular
I have read two books of the _Iliad_, besides being pretty familiar with passages such as the speech of Phoenix in the ninth book, the fight of Hector and Ajax in the fourteenth, the appearance of Achilles unarmed and his heavenly armour in the eighteenth, and the funeral games in the twenty-third. I have also done some Hesiod, a little scrap of Thucydides, and a lot of the Greek Testament... I wish there was only one dialect all the same. "I have done some mathematics, including the first six and the eleventh and twelfth books of Euclid; and algebra as far as simple equations. 

"I know something of the Fathers, and something of Roman and English history. 

"These things are only a beginning. But I shall not make much farther advance here, from the difficulty of getting books. Hence I must next concentrate all my energies on settling in Christminster. Once there I shall so advance, with the assistance I shall there get, that my present knowledge will appear to me but as childish ignorance. I must save money, and I will; and one of those colleges shall open its doors to me -- shall welcome whom now it would spurn, if I wait twenty years for the welcome. 

"I'll be D.D. before I have done
Meanwhile I will read, as soon as I am settled in Christminster, the books I have not been able to get hold of here: Livy, Tacitus, Herodotus, Aeschylus, Sophocles, Aristophanes
Ha, ha, ha! Hoity-toity
Euripides, Plato, Aristotle, Lucretius, Epictetus, Seneca, Antoninus. Then I must master other things: the Fathers thoroughly; Bede and ecclesiastical history generally; a smattering of Hebrew -- I only know the letters as yet
Hoity-toity
but I can work hard. I have staying power in abundance, thank God! and it is that which tells.... Yes, Christminster shall be my Alma Mater; and I'll be her beloved son, in whom she shall be well pleased
Thank you
I DIDN'T throw it, I tell you
Nor I
Oh, Anny, how can you
If I had thrown anything at all, it shouldn't have been THAT
Pooh! I don't care for him
YOU didn't do it -- oh no
That you'll never be told
Whoever did it was wasteful of other people's property
Oh, that's nothing
But you want to speak to me, I suppose
Oh yes; if you like to
Shall I clamber across, or will you come to the plank above here
Bring back what is lying there
You don't think _I_ would shy things at you
Oh no
We are doing this for my father, who naturally doesn't want anything thrown away. He makes that into dubbin
What made either of the others throw it, I wonder
Impudence. Don't tell folk it was I, mind
How can I? I don't know your name
Ah, no. Shall I tell it to you
Do
Arabella Donn. I'm living here
I must have known it if I had often come this way. But I mostly go straight along the high-road
My father is a pig-breeder, and these girls are helping me wash the innerds for black-puddings and such like
What a nice-looking girl you are
Ah, you should see me Sundays
I don't suppose I could
That's for you to think on. There's nobody after me just now, though there med be in a week or two
Will you let me
I don't mind
Next Sunday
To-morrow, that is
Yes
Shall I call
Yes
Well, it's only a bit of fun
Catched un, my dear
I don't know. I wish I had thrown something else than that
Lord! he's nobody, though you med think so. He used to drive old Drusilla Fawley's bread-cart out at Marygreen, till he 'prenticed himself at Alfredston. Since then he's been very stuck up, and always reading. He wants to be a scholar, they say
Oh, I don't care what he is, or anything about 'n. Don't you think it, my child
Oh, don't ye! You needn't try to deceive us! What did you stay talking to him for, if you didn't want un? Whether you do or whether you don't, he's as simple as a child. I could see it as you courted on the bridge, when he looked at 'ee as if he had never seen a woman before in his born days. Well, he's to be had by any woman who can get him to care for her a bit, if she likes to set herself to catch him the right way
Arabella! Here's your young man come coorting! Mizzle, my girl
Take a chair, Mr. What's-your-name
I'd rather go out at once, wouldn't you
Yes
We'll walk up to the Brown House and back, we can do it in half an hour
It is a fire
Let's run and see it -- do! It is not far
who kept hisself up so particular
Yet what else can we do
It is a three-mile walk for you
I suppose we can have some beer
Beer, oh yes. I had forgotten that. Somehow it seems odd to come to a public-house for beer on a Sunday evening
But we didn't
No, we didn't
Ugh
What's the matter with it
I don't understand beer very much now, it is true. I like it well enough, but it is bad to read on, and I find coffee better. But this seems all right
Adulterated -- I can't touch it
How much you know
Take my arm
Now we are well together, dear, aren't we
Yes
Rather mild
How fast I have become
These lovers -- you find 'em out o' doors in all seasons and weathers -- lovers and homeless dogs only
Are we lovers
You know best
But you can tell me
You can keep your arm there, if you would like to
Wasting
And what did he tell 'ee next
Then he said
You've got him to care for 'ee a bit, 'nation if you han't
It's well to be you
I've got him to care for me: yes! But I want him to more than care for me; I want him to have me -- to marry me! I must have him. I can't do without him. He's the sort of man I long for. I shall go mad if I can't give myself to him altogether! I felt I should when I first saw him
As he is a romancing, straightfor'ard, honest chap, he's to be had, and as a husband, if you set about catching him in the right way
What med be the right way
Oh you don't know -- you don't
On my word I don't!-- No further, that is, than by plain courting, and taking care he don't go too far
She DON'T know
'Tis clear she don't
And having lived in a town, too, as one may say! Well, we can teach 'ee som'at then, as well as you us
Yes. And how do you mean -- a sure way to gain a man? Take me for an innocent, and have done wi' it
As a husband
As a husband
A countryman that's honourable and serious-minded such as he; God forbid that I should say a sojer, or sailor, or commercial gent from the towns, or any of them that be slippery with poor women! I'd do no friend that harm
Well, such as he, of course
Ah
I own I didn't think of that way! ... But suppose he ISN'T honourable? A woman had better not have tried it
Nothing venture nothing have! Besides, you make sure that he's honourable before you begin. You'd be safe enough with yours. I wish I had the chance! Lots of girls do it; or do you think they'd get married at all
I'll try it
They were only put in this morning
They were drove from Spaddleholt Farm only yesterday, where Father bought 'em at a stiff price enough. They are wanting to get home again, the stupid toads! Will you shut the garden gate, dear, and help me to get 'em in. There are no men folk at home, only Mother, and they'll be lost if we don't mind
He'll be lost if I don't follow 'n
Come along with me
Let me take your hand, darling
You are getting out of breath
This comes of driving 'em home
They always know the way back if you do that. They ought to have been carted over
It is no good
He'll be there long before we get there. It don't matter now we know he's not lost or stolen on the way. They'll see it is ours, and send un back. Oh dear, how hot I be
Oh, I ask pardon -- I nearly threw you down, didn't I! But I am so tired
We've run all this way for nothing
Well -- why don't you speak, deary
I'm blown too. It was all up hill
Oh, I can see such a pretty thing up this tree
A sort of a -- caterpillar, of the most loveliest green and yellow you ever came across
Where
You can't see him there -- you must come here
No -- I can't see it
Why, on the limb there where it branches off -- close to the moving leaf -- there
I don't see it
But I can, perhaps, standing up
How stupid you are
I don't care to see it, dear: why should I
Get up, Abby
Why
I want you to let me kiss you. I've been waiting to ever so long
I must mizzle
Just one
Shan't
What's the matter
I expect I took too much liberty with her, somehow
I zeed 'ee running with 'un -- hee-hee! I hope 'tis coming to something
He's for Christminster, I hear, as soon as he can get there
Have you heard that lately -- quite lately
Oh no! But it has been known a long time that it is his plan. He's on'y waiting here for an opening. Ah well: he must walk about with somebody, I s'pose. Young men don't mean much now-a-days. 'Tis a sip here and a sip there with 'em. 'Twas different in my time
I want you and Father to go and inquire how the Edlins be, this evening after tea. Or no -- there's evening service at Fensworth -- you can walk to that
Oh? What's up to-night, then
Nothing. Only I want the house to myself. He's shy; and I can't get un to come in when you are here. I shall let him slip through my fingers if I don't mind, much as I care for 'n
If it is fine we med as well go, since you wish
Now we'll go back
I won't come in. Why are you in such a hurry to go in to-night? It is not near dark
Wait a moment
Ah -- they are gone to church
Now, you'll come in a moment
We shall be all alone
Certainly
Don't touch me, please
I am part egg-shell. Or perhaps I had better put it in a safe place
What is it
An egg -- a cochin's egg. I am hatching a very rare sort. I carry it about everywhere with me, and it will get hatched in less than three weeks
Where do you carry it
Just here
Now mind you don't come near me. I don't want to get it broke, and have to begin another
Why do you do such a strange thing
It's an old custom. I suppose it is natural for a woman to want to bring live things into the world
It is very awkward for me just now
That's very shabby of you
You should have catched me a minute ago when I had put the egg down! There
I am without it now
One kiss, now I can do it without damage to property; and I'll go
You must find me first
I am going away
I think I ought to go. I think it will be better both for you and for me. I wish some things had never begun! I was much to blame, I know. But it is never too late to mend
How do you know it is not too late
That's all very well to say! I haven't told you yet
What
Not
Yes! And what shall I do if you desert me
Oh, Arabella -- how can you say that, my dear! You KNOW I wouldn't desert you
Well then
I have next to no wages as yet, you know; or perhaps I should have thought of this before... But, of course if that's the case, we must marry! What other thing do you think I could dream of doing
I thought -- I thought, deary, perhaps you would go away all the more for that, and leave me to face it alone
You knew better! Of course I never dreamt six months ago, or even three, of marrying. It is a complete smashing up of my plans -- I mean my plans before I knew you, my dear. But what are they, after all! Dreams about books, and degrees, and impossible fellowships, and all that. Certainly we'll marry: we must
_In remembrance of good advice_
What -- it wasn't your own
Oh no -- it never is nowadays with the better class
Nonsense! Perhaps not in towns. But in the country it is supposed to be different. Besides, you've enough of your own, surely
Yes, enough as country notions go. But in town the men expect more, and when I was barmaid at Aldbrickham
Barmaid at Aldbrickham
Well, not exactly barmaid -- I used to draw the drink at a public-house there -- just for a little time; that was all. Some people put me up to getting this, and I bought it just for a fancy. The more you have the better in Aldbrickham, which is a finer town than all your Christminsters. Every lady of position wears false hair -- the barber's assistant told me so
So it turned out a good plan, you see
I knew it would with such as him. He's a dear good fellow, and you ought to be proud of un
I am
And when do you expect
Ssh! Not at all
What
I was mistaken
Oh, Arabella, Arabella; you be a deep one! Mistaken! well, that's clever -- it's a real stroke of genius! It is a thing I never thought o', wi' all my experience! I never thought beyond bringing about the real thing -- not that one could sham it
Don't you be too quick to cry sham! 'Twasn't sham. I didn't know
My word -- won't he be in a taking! He'll give it to 'ee o' Saturday nights! Whatever it was, he'll say it was a trick -- a double one, by the Lord
I'll own to the first, but not to the second... Pooh -- he won't care! He'll be glad I was wrong in what I said. He'll shake down, bless 'ee -- men always do. What can 'em do otherwise? Married is married
Don't do that, Arabella
There is no harm in it, but -- I don't like to see you
Lord, I didn't know you were awake
How countrified you are! That's nothing
Where did you learn it
Nowhere that I know of. They used to stay without any trouble when I was at the public-house; but now they won't. My face was fatter then
I don't care about dimples. I don't think they improve a woman -- particularly a married woman, and of full-sized figure like you
Most men think otherwise
I don't care what most men think, if they do. How do you know
I used to be told so when I was serving in the tap-room
Ah -- that public-house experience accounts for your knowing about the adulteration of the ale when we went and had some that Sunday evening. I thought when I married you that you had always lived in your father's house
You ought to have known better than that, and seen I was a little more finished than I could have been by staying where I was born. There was not much to do at home, and I was eating my head off, so I went away for three months
You'll soon have plenty to do now, dear, won't you
How do you mean
Why, of course -- little things to make
Oh
When will it be? Can't you tell me exactly, instead of in such general terms as you have used
Tell you
Yes -- the date
There's nothing to tell. I made a mistake
What
It was a mistake
How can that be
Women fancy wrong things sometimes
But --! Why, of course, so unprepared as I was, without a stick of furniture, and hardly a shilling, I shouldn't have hurried on our affair, and brought you to a half-furnished hut before I was ready, if it had not been for the news you gave me, which made it necessary to save you, ready or no... Good God
Don't take on, dear. What's done can't be undone
I have no more to say
I'm afraid the pig-killer won't be able to come
Oh, he'll come. You must get up and make the water hot, if you want Challow to scald him. Though I like singeing best
I'll get up
I like the way of my own county
Is Challow come
No
He's not coming. Drunk last night, I expect. The snow is not enough to hinder him, surely
Then we must put it off. It is only the water boiled for nothing. The snow may be deep in the valley
Can't be put off. There's no more victuals for the pig. He ate the last mixing o' barleymeal yesterday morning
Yesterday morning? What has he lived on since
Nothing
What -- he has been starving
Yes. We always do it the last day or two, to save bother with the innerds. What ignorance, not to know that
That accounts for his crying so. Poor creature
Well -- you must do the sticking -- there's no help for it. I'll show you how. Or I'll do it myself -- I think I could. Though as it is such a big pig I had rather Challow had done it. However, his basket o' knives and things have been already sent on here, and we can use 'em
Of course you shan't do it
I'll do it, since it must be done
Upon my soul I would sooner have gone without the pig than have had this to do
A creature I have fed with my own hands
Don't be such a tender-hearted fool! There's the sticking-knife -- the one with the point. Now whatever you do, don't stick un too deep
I'll stick him effectually, so as to make short work of it. That's the chief thing
You must not
The meat must be well bled, and to do that he must die slow. We shall lose a shilling a score if the meat is red and bloody! Just touch the vein, that's all. I was brought up to it, and I know. Every good butcher keeps un bleeding long. He ought to be eight or ten minutes dying, at least
He shall not be half a minute if I can help it, however the meat may look
Od damn it all
that ever I should say it! You've over-stuck un! And I telling you all the time
Do be quiet, Arabella, and have a little pity on the creature
Hold up the pail to catch the blood, and don't talk
Make un stop that
Such a noise will bring somebody or other up here, and I don't want people to know we are doing it ourselves
That's better
It is a hateful business
Pigs must be killed
That's it; now he'll go
Artful creatures -- they always keep back a drop like that as long as they can
There
Now I can't make any blackpot. There's a waste, all through you
Thank God
He's dead
What's God got to do with such a messy job as a pig-killing, I should like to know
Poor folks must live
I know, I know
I don't scold you
Well done, young married volk! I couldn't have carried it out much better myself, cuss me if I could
'Tis well for 'ee to stand there and glane
Owing to your being late the meat is blooded and half spoiled! 'Twon't fetch so much by a shilling a score
and not have done this -- in the delicate state, too, that you be in at present, ma'am. 'Tis risking yourself too much
You needn't be concerned about that
Howsomever, 'twas I put her up to it! 'Nothing venture nothing have,' I said. If I hadn't she'd no more have been his mis'ess than I
'Tis my belief she knew there was nothing the matter when she told him she was
mis'ess
An apprentice's wages are not meant to be enough to keep a wife on, as a rule, my dear
Then you shouldn't have had one
Come, Arabella! That's too bad, when you know how it came about
I'll declare afore Heaven that I thought what I told you was true. Doctor Vilbert thought so. It was a good job for you that it wasn't so
I don't mean that
I mean before that time. I know it was not your fault; but those women friends of yours gave you bad advice. If they hadn't, or you hadn't taken it, we should at this moment have been free from a bond which, not to mince matters, galls both of us devilishly. It may be very sad, but it is true
Who's been telling you about my friends? What advice? I insist upon you telling me
Pooh -- I'd rather not
But you shall -- you ought to. It is mean of 'ee not to
Very well
But I don't wish to dwell upon it. Let us say no more about it
That was nothing
Every woman has a right to do such as that. The risk is hers
I quite deny it, Bella. She might if no lifelong penalty attached to it for the man, or, in his default, for herself; if the weakness of the moment could end with the moment, or even with the year. But when effects stretch so far she should not go and do that which entraps a man if he is honest, or herself if he is otherwise
What ought I to have done
Given me time... Why do you fuss yourself about melting down that pig's fat to-night? Please put it away
Then I must do it to-morrow morning. It won't keep
Very well -- do
That's the story about me in Marygreen, is it -- that I entrapped 'ee? Much of a catch you were, Lord send
I won't have them books here in the way
Leave my books alone
You might have thrown them aside if you had liked, but as to soiling them like that, it is disgusting
Let me go
Promise to leave the books alone
Let me go
Promise
I do
Good Lord deliver us
See how he's served me
Making me work Sunday mornings when I ought to be going to my church, and tearing my hair off my head, and my gown off my back
Going to ill-use me on principle, as your father ill-used your mother, and your father's sister ill-used her husband
All you be a queer lot as husbands and wives
Aunt -- did my father ill-use my mother, and my aunt her husband
Who's been telling you that
I have heard it spoken of, and want to know all
You med so well, I s'pose; though your wife -- I reckon 'twas she -- must have been a fool to open up that! There isn't much to know after all. Your father and mother couldn't get on together, and they parted. It was coming home from Alfredston market, when you were a baby -- on the hill by the Brown House barn -- that they had their last difference, and took leave of one another for the last time. Your mother soon afterwards died -- she drowned herself, in short, and your father went away with you to South Wessex, and never came here any more
It was the same with your father's sister. Her husband offended her, and she so disliked living with him afterwards that she went away to London with her little maid. The Fawleys were not made for wedlock: it never seemed to sit well upon us. There's sommat in our blood that won't take kindly to the notion of being bound to do what we do readily enough if not bound. That's why you ought to have hearkened to me, and not ha' married
Where did Father and Mother part -- by the Brown House, did you say
A little further on -- where the road to Fenworth branches off, and the handpost stands. A gibbet once stood there not onconnected with our history. But let that be
_Have gone to my friends. Shall not return
_Jude to Arabella_
Oh
It is a small lot of stuff that was knocked down to me at a cottage sale out on the road to Marygreen. The frame is a very useful one, if you take out the likeness. You shall have it for a shilling
Yet I am a man
I have a wife. More, I have arrived at the still riper stage of having disagreed with her, disliked her, had a scuffle with her, and parted from her
moulding mason
foliage sculptor
statuary
Beersheba
You've been a-settin' a long time on that plinth-stone, young man. What med you be up to
the home of lost causes
Beautiful city! so venerable, so lovely, so unravaged by the fierce intellectual life of our century, so serene! ... Her ineffable charm keeps ever calling us to the true goal of all of us, to the ideal, to perfection
Sir, I may be wrong, but my impression is that my duty towards a country threatened with famine requires that that which has been the ordinary remedy under all similar circumstances should be resorted to now, namely, that there should be free access to the food of man from whatever quarter it may come... Deprive me of office to-morrow, you can never deprive me of the consciousness that I have exercised the powers committed to me from no corrupt or interested motives, from no desire to gratify ambition, for no personal gain
How shall we excuse the supine inattention of the Pagan and philosophic world, to those evidences &lsqb;miracles&rsqb; which were presented by Omnipotence? ... The sages of Greece and Rome turned aside from the awful spectacle, and appeared unconscious of any alterations in the moral or physical government of the world
My argument was ... that absolute certitude as to the truths of natural theology was the result of an assemblage of concurring and converging probabilities ... that probabilities which did not reach to logical certainty might create a mental certitude
When I look upon the tombs of the great, every motion of envy dies in me; when I read the epitaphs of the beautiful, every inordinate desire goes out; when I meet with the grief of parents upon a tombstone, my heart melts with compassion; when I see the tombs of the parents themselves, I consider the vanity of grieving for those whom we must quickly follow
By Jove -- I had quite forgotten my sweet-faced cousin, and that she's here all the time! ... and my old schoolmaster, too
sentiment
For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence; but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have it
A sweet, saintly, Christian business, hers
Spaik when he heave! He-ho
It can't be! I, a man with a wife, must not know her
I-i-i-mages
How much are these two
I cannot afford that
Well, anything is better than those everlasting church fallals
Something you have been buying, Miss Bridehead
Yes -- just something to ornament my room
Well, I should have thought I had put enough here already
What is it? How bulky
Why, statuary? Two figures? Where did you get them
Oh -- I bought them of a travelling man who sells casts
Two saints
Yes
What ones
St. Peter and St.-- St. Mary Magdalen
Well -- now come down to tea, and go and finish that organ-text, if there's light enough afterwards
_All hemin heis Theos ho Pater, ex hou ta panta, kai hemeis eis auton
_Kai heis Kurios Iesous Christos, di hou ta panta kai hemeis di autou
After all
it is not altogether an _erotolepsy_ that is the matter with me, as at that first time. I can see that she is exceptionally bright; and it is partly a wish for intellectual sympathy, and a craving for loving-kindness in my solitude
That's a nice girl
Who is she
I don't know -- I've seen her about here and there. Why, yes, she's the daughter of that clever chap Bridehead who did all the wrought ironwork at St. Silas' ten years ago, and went away to London afterwards. I don't know what he's doing now -- not much I fancy -- as she's come back here
Why -- that's my cousin Sue
I am not going to meet you just there, for the first time in my life! Come further on
I am sorry that I asked you to meet me, and didn't call
But I thought it would save time if we were going to walk
Oh -- I don't mind that
I have really no place to ask anybody in to. What I meant was that the place you chose was so horrid -- I suppose I ought not to say horrid -- I mean gloomy and inauspicious in its associations... But isn't it funny to begin like this, when I don't know you yet
You seem to know me more than I know you
Yes -- I have seen you now and then
And you knew who I was, and didn't speak? And now I am going away
Yes. That's unfortunate. I have hardly any other friend. I have, indeed, one very old friend here somewhere, but I don't quite like to call on him just yet. I wonder if you know anything of him -- Mr. Phillotson? A parson somewhere about the county I think he is
No -- I only know of one Mr. Phillotson. He lives a little way out in the country, at Lumsdon. He's a village schoolmaster
Ah! I wonder if he's the same. Surely it is impossible! Only a schoolmaster still! Do you know his Christian name -- is it Richard
Yes -- it is; I've directed books to him, though I've never seen him
Then he couldn't do it
As we are going to take a walk, suppose we go and call upon him
It is not late
I don't remember you in the least
You were one of my pupils, you say? Yes, no doubt; but they number so many thousands by this time of my life, and have naturally changed so much, that I remember very few except the quite recent ones
It was out at Marygreen
Yes. I was there a short time. And is this an old pupil, too
No -- that's my cousin... I wrote to you for some grammars, if you recollect, and you sent them
Ah -- yes!-- I do dimly recall that incident
It was very kind of you to do it. And it was you who first started me on that course. On the morning you left Marygreen, when your goods were on the waggon, you wished me good-bye, and said your scheme was to be a university man and enter the Church -- that a degree was the necessary hall-mark of one who wanted to do anything as a theologian or teacher
I remember I thought all that privately; but I wonder I did not keep my own counsel. The idea was given up years ago
I have never forgotten it. It was that which brought me to this part of the country, and out here to see you to-night
Come in
And your cousin, too
Why must you leave Christminster
How can you do otherwise than cling to a city in whose history such men as Newman, Pusey, Ward, Keble, loom so large
Yes -- they do. Though how large do they loom in the history of the world? ... What a funny reason for caring to stay! I should never have thought of it
Well -- I must go
Miss Fontover, one of the partners whom I serve, is offended with me, and I with her; and it is best to go
How did that happen
She broke some statuary of mine
Oh? Wilfully
Yes. She found it in my room, and though it was my property she threw it on the floor and stamped on it, because it was not according to her taste, and ground the arms and the head of one of the figures all to bits with her heel -- a horrid thing
Too Catholic-Apostolic for her, I suppose? No doubt she called them popish images and talked of the invocation of saints
No... No, she didn't do that. She saw the matter quite differently
Ah! Then I am surprised
Yes. It was for quite some other reason that she didn't like my patron-saints. So I was led to retort upon her; and the end of it was that I resolved not to stay, but to get into an occupation in which I shall be more independent
Why don't you try teaching again? You once did, I heard
I never thought of resuming it; for I was getting on as an art-designer
DO let me ask Mr. Phillotson to let you try your hand in his school? If you like it, and go to a training college, and become a first-class certificated mistress, you get twice as large an income as any designer or church artist, and twice as much freedom
Well -- ask him. Now I must go in. Good-bye, dear Jude! I am so glad we have met at last. We needn't quarrel because our parents did, need we
What I rather wanted was a second year's transfer, as it is called
Of course your cousin would do, personally; but she has had no experience. Oh -- she has, has she? Does she really think of adopting teaching as a profession
I think
that this model, elaborate as it is, is a very imaginary production. How does anybody know that Jerusalem was like this in the time of Christ? I am sure this man doesn't
It is made after the best conjectural maps, based on actual visits to the city as it now exists
I fancy we have had enough of Jerusalem
considering we are not descended from the Jews. There was nothing first-rate about the place, or people, after all -- as there was about Athens, Rome, Alexandria, and other old cities
But my dear girl, consider what it is to us
Look at your cousin Jude
He doesn't think we have had enough of Jerusalem
Ah -- I didn't see him
Jude -- how seriously you are going into it
Oh -- Sue
These are your school-children, of course! I saw that schools were admitted in the afternoons, and thought you might come; but I got so deeply interested that I didn't remember where I was. How it carries one back, doesn't it! I could examine it for hours, but I have only a few minutes, unfortunately; for I am in the middle of a job out here
Your cousin is so terribly clever that she criticizes it unmercifully
She is quite sceptical as to its correctness
No, Mr. Phillotson, I am not -- altogether! I hate to be what is called a clever girl -- there are too many of that sort now
I only meant -- I don't know what I meant -- except that it was what you don't understand
_I_ know your meaning
And I think you are quite right
That's a good Jude -- I know YOU believe in me
I thought you took no interest in the model, and hardly looked at it
I hardly did
but I remembered that much of it
It is more than I had remembered myself
You ought to have told me
that one of the inspector's surprise-visits was imminent! Oh, what shall I do! Now he'll write and tell the managers that I am no good, and I shall be disgraced for ever
He won't do that, my dear little girl. You are the best teacher ever I had
Oh, he's too old for her -- too old
Was Sue born here
She was -- in this room. They were living here at that time. What made 'ee ask that
Oh -- I wanted to know
Now you've been seeing her
And what did I tell 'ee
Well -- that I was not to see her
Have you gossiped with her
Yes
Then don't keep it up. She was brought up by her father to hate her mother's family; and she'll look with no favour upon a working chap like you -- a townish girl as she's become by now. I never cared much about her. A pert little thing, that's what she was too often, with her tight-strained nerves. Many's the time I've smacked her for her impertinence. Why, one day when she was walking into the pond with her shoes and stockings off, and her petticoats pulled above her knees, afore I could cry out for shame, she said: 'Move on, Aunty! This is no sight for modest eyes
She was a little child then
She was twelve if a day
Well -- of course. But now she's older she's of a thoughtful, quivering, tender nature, and as sensitive as
Jude
Don't you be a fool about her
No, no, of course not
Your marrying that woman Arabella was about as bad a thing as a man could possibly do for himself by trying hard. But she's gone to the other side of the world, and med never trouble you again. And there'll be a worse thing if you, tied and bound as you be, should have a fancy for Sue. If your cousin is civil to you, take her civility for what it is worth. But anything more than a relation's good wishes it is stark madness for 'ee to give her. If she's townish and wanton it med bring 'ee to ruin
Don't say anything against her, Aunt! Don't, please
Excelsior
Ghastly, grim, and ancient Raven, wandering from the Nightly shore, Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night's Plutonian shore
She'd bring up the nasty carrion bird that clear
as she stood there in her little sash and things, that you could see un a'most before your very eyes. You too, Jude, had the same trick as a child of seeming to see things in the air
She was not exactly a tomboy, you know; but she could do things that only boys do, as a rule. I've seen her hit in and steer down the long slide on yonder pond, with her little curls blowing, one of a file of twenty moving along against the sky like shapes painted on glass, and up the back slide without stopping. All boys except herself; and then they'd cheer her, and then she'd say, 'Don't be saucy, boys,' and suddenly run indoors. They'd try to coax her out again. But 'a wouldn't come
Ye've got there right enough, then
Why, to the seat of l'arning -- the 'City of Light' you used to talk to us about as a little boy! Is it all you expected of it
Yes; more
When I was there once for an hour I didn't see much in it for my part; auld crumbling buildings, half church, half almshouse, and not much going on at that
You are wrong, John; there is more going on than meets the eye of a man walking through the streets. It is a unique centre of thought and religion -- the intellectual and spiritual granary of this country. All that silence and absence of goings-on is the stillness of infinite motion -- the sleep of the spinning-top, to borrow the simile of a well-known writer
Oh, well, it med be all that, or it med not. As I say, I didn't see nothing of it the hour or two I was there; so I went in and had a pot o' beer, and a penny loaf, and a ha'porth o' cheese, and waited till it was time to come along home. You've j'ined a college by this time, I suppose
Ah, no
I am almost as far off that as ever
How so
Just what we thought! Such places be not for such as you -- only for them with plenty o' money
There you are wrong
They are for such ones
I ought to have thought of this before
It would have been better never to have embarked in the scheme at all than to do it without seeing clearly where I am going, or what I am aiming at... This hovering outside the walls of the colleges, as if expecting some arm to be stretched out from them to lift me inside, won't do! I must get special information
It is just one of those intrusive, vulgar, pushing, applications which are so common in these days
Why couldn't I know better than address utter strangers in such a way? I may be an impostor, an idle scamp, a man with a bad character, for all that they know to the contrary... Perhaps that's what I am
Let me only get there
and the rest is but a matter of time and energy
ONE -- at last
You've had a wet, young man
No; I've only begun
_I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you: yea, who knoweth not such things as these
I don't care a damn
for any provost, warden, principal, fellow, or cursed master of arts in the university! What I know is that I'd lick 'em on their own ground if they'd give me a chance, and show 'em a few things they are not up to yet
Hear, hear
You always was fond o' books, I've heard
and I don't doubt what you state. Now with me 'twas different. I always saw there was more to be learnt outside a book than in; and I took my steps accordingly, or I shouldn't have been the man I am
You aim at the Church, I believe
If you are such a scholar as to pitch yer hopes so high as that, why not give us a specimen of your scholarship? Canst say the Creed in Latin, man? That was how they once put it to a chap down in my country
I should think so
Not he! Like his conceit
Just you shut up, Bower o' Bliss
Silence
The gentleman in the corner is going to rehearse the Articles of his Belief, in the Latin tongue, for the edification of the company
I won't
Yes -- have a try
You can't
Yes, he can
I'll swear I can
Well, come now, stand me a small Scotch cold, and I'll do it straight off
That's a fair offer
_Credo in unum Deum, Patrem omnipotentem, Factorem coeli et terrae, visibilium omnium et invisibilium
Good! Excellent Latin
_Crucifixus etiam pro nobis: sub Pontio Pilato passus, et sepultus est. Et resurrexit tertia die, secundum Scripturas
That's the Nicene
And we wanted the Apostles'
You didn't say so! And every fool knows, except you, that the Nicene is the most historic creed
Let un go on, let un go on
Give him another glass -- then he'll fetch up and get through it
_Et in Spiritum Sanctum, Dominum et vivificantem, qui ex Patre Filioque procedit. Qui cum Patre et Filio simul adoratur et conglorificatur. Qui locutus est per prophetas. "Et unam Catholicam et Apostolicam Ecclesiam. Confiteor unum Baptisma in remissionem peccatorum. Et exspecto Resurrectionem mortuorum. Et vitam venturi saeculi. Amen
Well done
You pack of fools
Which one of you knows whether I have said it or no? It might have been the Ratcatcher's Daughter in double Dutch for all that your besotted heads can tell! See what I have brought myself to -- the crew I have come among
Sue, Sue
Is it Jude? Yes, it is! My dear, dear cousin, what's the matter
Oh, I am -- I couldn't help coming, Sue
I am so wicked, Sue -- my heart is nearly broken, and I could not bear my life as it was! So I have been drinking, and blaspheming, or next door to it, and saying holy things in disreputable quarters -- repeating in idle bravado words which ought never to be uttered but reverently! Oh, do anything with me, Sue -- kill me -- I don't care! Only don't hate me and despise me like all the rest of the world
You are ill, poor dear! No, I won't despise you; of course I won't! Come in and rest, and let me see what I can do for you. Now lean on me, and don't mind
Dear, dear Sue
What -- out o' work
Yes
I think I must have a little rest
the hell of conscious failure
Hoi
I think you are Mr. Highridge
My aunt has mentioned you more than once. Well, here I am, just come home; a fellow gone to the bad; though I had the best intentions in the world at one time. Now I am melancholy mad, what with drinking and one thing and another
Now I know I have been a fool, and that folly is with me
And I don't regret the collapse of my university hopes one jot. I wouldn't begin again if I were sure to succeed. I don't care for social success any more at all. But I do feel I should like to do some good thing; and I bitterly regret the Church, and the loss of my chance of being her ordained minister
If you feel a real call to the ministry, and I won't say from your conversation that you do not, for it is that of a thoughtful and educated man, you might enter the Church as a licentiate. Only you must make up your mind to avoid strong drink
I could avoid that easily enough, if I had any kind of hope to support me!" 

Part Third








AT MELCHESTER











   "For there was no other girl, O bridegroom,


    like her!"-- SAPPHO (H. T. Wharton
You don't -- think me a demoralized wretch -- for coming to you as I was -- and going so shamefully, Sue
Oh, I have tried not to! You said enough to let me know what had caused it. I hope I shall never have any doubt of your worthiness, my poor Jude! And I am glad you have come
Your hands are rather rough, Jude, aren't they
Yes. So would yours be if they held a mallet and chisel all day
I don't dislike it, you know. I think it is noble to see a man's hands subdued to what he works in... Well, I'm rather glad I came to this training-school, after all. See how independent I shall be after the two years' training! I shall pass pretty high, I expect, and Mr. Phillotson will use his influence to get me a big school
I had a suspicion, a fear
that he -- cared about you rather warmly, and perhaps wanted to marry you
Now don't be such a silly boy
He has said something about it, I expect
If he had, what would it matter? An old man like him
Oh, come, Sue; he's not so very old. And I know what I saw him doing
Not kissing me -- that I'm certain
No. But putting his arm round your waist
Ah -- I remember. But I didn't know he was going to
You are wriggling out if it, Sue, and it isn't quite kind
I know you'll be angry if I tell you everything, and that's why I don't want to
Very well, then, dear
I have no real right to ask you, and I don't wish to know
I shall tell you
This is what I have done: I have promised -- I have promised -- that I will marry him when I come out of the training-school two years hence, and have got my certificate; his plan being that we shall then take a large double school in a great town -- he the boys' and I the girls'-- as married school-teachers often do, and make a good income between us
Oh, Sue! ... But of course it is right -- you couldn't have done better
I knew you would be angry
Very well -- I am wrong, I suppose! I ought not to have let you come to see me! We had better not meet again; and we'll only correspond at long intervals, on purely business matters
Oh yes, we will
Your being engaged can make no difference to me whatever. I have a perfect right to see you when I want to; and I shall
Then don't let us talk of it any more. It is quite spoiling our evening together. What does it matter about what one is going to do two years hence
Shall we go and sit in the cathedral
Cathedral? Yes. Though I think I'd rather sit in the railway station
That's the centre of the town life now. The cathedral has had its day
How modern you are
So would you be if you had lived so much in the Middle Ages as I have done these last few years! The cathedral was a very good place four or five centuries ago; but it is played out now... I am not modern, either. I am more ancient than mediaevalism, if you only knew
There -- I won't say any more of that
Only you don't know how bad I am, from your point of view, or you wouldn't think so much of me, or care whether I was engaged or not. Now there's just time for us to walk round the Close, then I must go in, or I shall be locked out for the night
To-morrow is our grand day, you know. Where shall we go
I have leave from three till nine. Wherever we can get to and come back from in that time. Not ruins, Jude -- I don't care for them
Well -- Wardour Castle. And then we can do Fonthill if we like -- all in the same afternoon
Wardour is Gothic ruins -- and I hate Gothic
No. Quite otherwise. It is a classic building -- Corinthian, I think; with a lot of pictures
Ah -- that will do. I like the sound of Corinthian. We'll go
B'your leave
That's a good intention wasted
A nice little cottage
Oh, I don't know about the niceness. I shall have to thatch it soon, and where the thatch is to come from I can't tell, for straw do get that dear, that 'twill soon be cheaper to cover your house wi' chainey plates than thatch
Don't 'ee mind I
bide here as long as ye will. But mid you be thinking o' getting back to Melchester to-night by train? Because you'll never do it in this world, since you don't know the lie of the country. I don't mind going with ye some o' the ways, but even then the train mid be gone
You can bide here, you know, over the night -- can't 'em, Mother? The place is welcome to ye. 'Tis hard lying, rather, but volk may do worse
Be you a married couple
Hsh -- no
Oh -- I meant nothing ba'dy -- not I! Well then, she can go into Mother's room, and you and I can lie in the outer chimmer after they've gone through. I can call ye soon enough to catch the first train back. You've lost this one now
I rather like this
Outside all laws except gravitation and germination
You only think you like it; you don't: you are quite a product of civilization
Indeed I am not, Jude. I like reading and all that, but I crave to get back to the life of my infancy and its freedom
Do you remember it so well? You seem to me to have nothing unconventional at all about you
Oh, haven't I! You don't know what's inside me
What
The Ishmaelite
An urban miss is what you are
I expect I shall catch it
Oh, I bought something for you, which I had nearly forgotten
It is a new little photograph of me. Would you like it
WOULD I
She went out with her young man
And Miss Traceley saw her at the station with him. She'll have it hot when she does come
She said he was her cousin
That excuse has been made a little too often in this school to be effectual in saving our souls
Evening Hymn
Who are these men -- did she ever say
Strictly speaking, relations' portraits only are allowed on these tables, you know
One -- the middle-aged man
is the schoolmaster she served under -- Mr. Phillotson
And the other -- this undergraduate in cap and gown -- who is he
He is a friend, or was. She has never told his name
Was it either of these two who came for her
No
You are sure 'twas not the undergraduate
Quite. He was a young man with a black beard
You mean that you are not going to work
I may as well tell you that it has been ascertained that the young man Bridehead stayed out with was not her cousin, for the very good reason that she has no such relative. We have written to Christminster to ascertain
We are willing to take her word
This young man was discharged from his work at Christminster for drunkenness and blasphemy in public-houses, and he has come here to live, entirely to be near her
She must have walked through the river
Or drownded herself
Jude
Sue
Yes -- it is! Can I come up without being seen
Oh yes
Then don't come down. Shut the window
I'm so cold
Can I come by your fire, Jude
Whatever have you done, darling
Walked through the largest river in the county -- that's what I've done! They locked me up for being out with you; and it seemed so unjust that I couldn't bear it, so I got out of the window and escaped across the stream
Dear Sue
You must take off all your things! And let me see -- you must borrow some from the landlady. I'll ask her
No, no! Don't let her know, for God's sake! We are so near the school that they'll come after me
Then you must put on mine. You don't mind
Oh no
My Sunday suit, you know. It is close here
Now, how long shall I give you
Ten minutes
I suppose, Jude, it is odd that you should see me like this and all my things hanging there? Yet what nonsense! They are only a woman's clothes -- sexless cloth and linen... I wish I didn't feel so ill and sick! Will you dry my clothes now? Please do, Jude, and I'll get a lodging by and by. It is not late yet
No, you shan't, if you are ill. You must stay here. Dear, dear Sue, what can I get for you
I don't know! I can't help shivering. I wish I could get warm
Here's six of best brandy
Now you drink it, dear; all of it
I can't out of the bottle, can I
Oh, I didn't know whether you was in or not, Mr. Fawley. I wanted to know if you would require supper. I see you've a young gentleman
Yes, ma'am. But I think I won't come down to-night. Will you bring supper up on a tray, and I'll have a cup of tea as well
Jude
Yes. All right. How do you feel now
Better. Quite well. Why, I fell asleep, didn't I? What time is it? Not late surely
It is past ten
Is it really? What SHALL I do
Stay where you are
Yes; that's what I want to do. But I don't know what they would say! And what will you do
I am going to sit here by the fire all night, and read. To-morrow is Sunday, and I haven't to go out anywhere. Perhaps you will be saved a severe illness by resting there. Don't be frightened. I'm all right. Look here, what I have got for you. Some supper
I do feel rather weak still. I thought I was well; and I ought not to be here, ought I
You called me a creature of civilization, or something, didn't you
It was very odd you should have done that
Why
Well, because it is provokingly wrong. I am a sort of negation of it
You are very philosophical. 'A negation' is profound talking
Is it? Do I strike you as being learned
No -- not learned. Only you don't talk quite like a girl -- well, a girl who has had no advantages
I have had advantages. I don't know Latin and Greek, though I know the grammars of those tongues. But I know most of the Greek and Latin classics through translations, and other books too. I read Lempriere, Catullus, Martial, Juvenal, Lucian, Beaumont and Fletcher, Boccaccio, Scarron, De Brantome, Sterne, De Foe, Smollett, Fielding, Shakespeare, the Bible, and other such; and found that all interest in the unwholesome part of those books ended with its mystery
You have read more than I
How came you to read some of those queerer ones
Well
it was by accident. My life has been entirely shaped by what people call a peculiarity in me. I have no fear of men, as such, nor of their books. I have mixed with them -- one or two of them particularly -- almost as one of their own sex. I mean I have not felt about them as most women are taught to feel -- to be on their guard against attacks on their virtue; for no average man -- no man short of a sensual savage -- will molest a woman by day or night, at home or abroad, unless she invites him. Until she says by a look 'Come on' he is always afraid to, and if you never say it, or look it, he never comes. However, what I was going to say is that when I was eighteen I formed a friendly intimacy with an undergraduate at Christminster, and he taught me a great deal, and lent me books which I should never have got hold of otherwise
Is your friendship broken off
Oh yes. He died, poor fellow, two or three years after he had taken his degree and left Christminster
You saw a good deal of him, I suppose
Yes. We used to go about together -- on walking tours, reading tours, and things of that sort -- like two men almost. He asked me to live with him, and I agreed to by letter. But when I joined him in London I found he meant a different thing from what I meant. He wanted me to be his mistress, in fact, but I wasn't in love with him -- and on my saying I should go away if he didn't agree to MY plan, he did so. We shared a sitting-room for fifteen months; and he became a leader-writer for one of the great London dailies; till he was taken ill, and had to go abroad. He said I was breaking his heart by holding out against him so long at such close quarters; he could never have believed it of woman. I might play that game once too often, he said. He came home merely to die. His death caused a terrible remorse in me for my cruelty -- though I hope he died of consumption and not of me entirely. I went down to Sandbourne to his funeral, and was his only mourner. He left me a little money -- because I broke his heart, I suppose. That's how men are -- so much better than women
Good heavens!-- what did you do then
Ah -- now you are angry with me
I wouldn't have told you if I had known
No, I am not. Tell me all
Well, I invested his money, poor fellow, in a bubble scheme, and lost it. I lived about London by myself for some time, and then I returned to Christminster, as my father -- who was also in London, and had started as an art metal-worker near Long-Acre -- wouldn't have me back; and I got that occupation in the artist-shop where you found me... I said you didn't know how bad I was
However you have lived, Sue, I believe you are as innocent as you are unconventional
But I have never yielded myself to any lover, if that's what you mean! I have remained as I began
I quite believe you. But some women would not have remained as they began
Perhaps not. Better women would not. People say I must be cold-natured -- sexless -- on account of it. But I won't have it! Some of the most passionately erotic poets have been the most self-contained in their daily lives
Have you told Mr. Phillotson about this university scholar friend
Yes -- long ago. I have never made any secret of it to anybody
What did he say
He did not pass any criticism -- only said I was everything to him, whatever I did; and things like that
Aren't you REALLY vexed with me, dear Jude
I would rather offend anybody in the world than you, I think
I don't know whether I am vexed or not. I know I care very much about you
I care as much for you as for anybody I ever met
You don't care MORE! There, I ought not to say that. Don't answer it
I am awfully ignorant on general matters, although I have worked so hard
I am absorbed in theology, you know. And what do you think I should be doing just about now, if you weren't here? I should be saying my evening prayers. I suppose you wouldn't like
Oh no, no
I would rather not, if you don't mind. I should seem so -- such a hypocrite
I thought you wouldn't join, so I didn't propose it. You must remember that I hope to be a useful minister some day
To be ordained, I think you said
Yes
Then you haven't given up the idea?-- I thought that perhaps you had by this time
Of course not. I fondly thought at first that you felt as I do about that, as you were so mixed up in Christminster Anglicanism. And Mr. Phillotson
I have no respect for Christminster whatever, except, in a qualified degree, on its intellectual side
O ghastly glories of saints, dead limbs of gibbeted Gods!'"... "Sue, you are not a good friend of mine to talk like that
Then I won't, dear Jude
I still think Christminster has much that is glorious; though I was resentful because I couldn't get there
It is an ignorant place, except as to the townspeople, artizans, drunkards, and paupers
THEY see life as it is, of course; but few of the people in the colleges do. You prove it in your own person. You are one of the very men Christminster was intended for when the colleges were founded; a man with a passion for learning, but no money, or opportunities, or friends. But you were elbowed off the pavement by the millionaires' sons
Well, I can do without what it confers. I care for something higher
And I for something broader, truer
At present intellect in Christminster is pushing one way, and religion the other; and so they stand stock-still, like two rams butting each other
What would Mr. Phillotson
It is a place full of fetishists and ghost-seers
Well, that's just what I am, too
I am fearful of life, spectre-seeing always
But you are good and dear
You are in the Tractarian stage just now, are you not
Let me see -- when was I there? In the year eighteen hundred and
There's a sarcasm in that which is rather unpleasant to me, Sue. Now will you do what I want you to? At this time I read a chapter, and then say prayers, as I told you. Now will you concentrate your attention on any book of these you like, and sit with your back to me, and leave me to my custom? You are sure you won't join me
I'll look at you
No. Don't tease, Sue
Very well -- I'll do just as you bid me, and I won't vex you, Jude
Jude
will you let me make you a NEW New Testament, like the one I made for myself at Christminster
Oh yes. How was that made
I altered my old one by cutting up all the Epistles and Gospels into separate _brochures_, and rearranging them in chronological order as written, beginning the book with Thessalonians, following on with the Epistles, and putting the Gospels much further on. Then I had the volume rebound. My university friend Mr.-- but never mind his name, poor boy -- said it was an excellent idea. I know that reading it afterwards made it twice as interesting as before, and twice as understandable
H'm
And what a literary enormity this is
I mean the synopsis at the head of each chapter, explaining away the real nature of that rhapsody. You needn't be alarmed: nobody claims inspiration for the chapter headings. Indeed, many divines treat them with contempt. It seems the drollest thing to think of the four-and-twenty elders, or bishops, or whatever number they were, sitting with long faces and writing down such stuff
You are quite Voltairean
Indeed? Then I won't say any more, except that people have no right to falsify the Bible! I HATE such hum-bug as could attempt to plaster over with ecclesiastical abstractions such ecstatic, natural, human love as lies in that great and passionate song
I WISH I had a friend here to support me; but nobody is ever on my side
But my dear Sue, my very dear Sue, I am not against you
Yes you are, yes you are
You are on the side of the people in the training-school -- at least you seem almost to be! What I insist on is, that to explain such verses as this: 'Whither is thy beloved gone, O thou fairest among women?' by the note: '_The Church professeth her faith_,' is supremely ridiculous
Well then, let it be! You make such a personal matter of everything! I am -- only too inclined just now to apply the words profanely. You know YOU are fairest among women to me, come to that
But you are not to say it now
I won't disturb your convictions -- I really won't
But I did want and long to ennoble some man to high aims; and when I saw you, and knew you wanted to be my comrade, I -- shall I confess it?-- thought that man might be you. But you take so much tradition on trust that I don't know what to say
Well, dear; I suppose one must take some things on trust. Life isn't long enough to work out everything in Euclid problems before you believe it. I take Christianity
Well, perhaps you might take something worse
Indeed I might. Perhaps I have done so
I won't ask what, because we are going to be VERY nice with each other, aren't we, and never, never, vex each other any more
I shall always care for you
And I for you. Because you are single-hearted, and forgiving to your faulty and tiresome little Sue
Now could I get out without anybody seeing me
The town is not yet astir
But you have had no breakfast
Oh, I don't want any! I fear I ought not to have run away from that school! Things seem so different in the cold light of morning, don't they? What Mr. Phillotson will say I don't know! It was quite by his wish that I went there. He is the only man in the world for whom I have any respect or fear. I hope he'll forgive me; but he'll scold me dreadfully, I expect
I'll go to him and explain
Oh no, you shan't. I don't care for him! He may think what he likes -- I shall do just as I choose
But you just this moment said
Well, if I did, I shall do as I like for all him! I have thought of what I shall do -- go to the sister of one of my fellow-students in the training-school, who has asked me to visit her. She has a school near Shaston, about eighteen miles from here -- and I shall stay there till this has blown over, and I get back to the training-school again
Now a dew-bit to eat with it
and off we go. You can have a regular breakfast when you get there
I want to tell you something -- two things
One is a warm one, the other a cold one
Jude
I know one of them. And you mustn't
What
You mustn't love me. You are to like me -- that's all
Miss Bridehead is up-stairs
And will you please walk up to her
Is she ill
Only a little -- not very
Oh, Sue
How is this! You couldn't write
No -- it wasn't that
I did catch a bad cold -- but I could have written. Only I wouldn't
Why not?-- frightening me like this
Yes -- that was what I was afraid of! But I had decided not to write to you any more. They won't have me back at the school -- that's why I couldn't write. Not the fact, but the reason
Well
They not only won't have me, but they gave me a parting piece of advice
What
I vowed I never would tell you, Jude -- it is so vulgar and distressing
Is it about us
Yes
But do tell me
Well -- somebody has sent them baseless reports about us, and they say you and I ought to marry as soon as possible, for the sake of my reputation! ... There -- now I have told you, and I wish I hadn't
Oh, poor Sue
I don't think of you like that means! It did just OCCUR to me to regard you in the way they think I do, but I hadn't begun to. I HAVE recognized that the cousinship was merely nominal, since we met as total strangers. But my marrying you, dear Jude -- why, of course, if I had reckoned upon marrying you I shouldn't have come to you so often! And I never supposed you thought of such a thing as marrying me till the other evening; when I began to fancy you did love me a little. Perhaps I ought not to have been so intimate with you. It is all my fault. Everything is my fault always
I was so blind at first
I didn't see what you felt at all. Oh, you have been unkind to me -- you have -- to look upon me as a sweetheart without saying a word, and leaving me to discover it myself! Your attitude to me has become known; and naturally they think we've been doing wrong! I'll never trust you again
Yes, Sue
I am to blame -- more than you think. I was quite aware that you did not suspect till within the last meeting or two what I was feeling about you. I admit that our meeting as strangers prevented a sense of relationship, and that it was a sort of subterfuge to avail myself of it. But don't you think I deserve a little consideration for concealing my wrong, very wrong, sentiments, since I couldn't help having them
Of course -- I know you don't -- care about me in any particular way
You ought not, and you are right. You belong to -- Mr. Phillotson. I suppose he has been to see you
Yes
Though I didn't ask him to come. You are glad, of course, that he has been! But I shouldn't care if he didn't come any more
This will blow over, dear Sue
The training-school authorities are not all the world. You can get to be a student in some other, no doubt
I'll ask Mr. Phillotson
Yes; yes
I won't keep you long. It was merely that I have heard that you have seen my little friend Sue recently. It occurred to me to speak to you on that account. I merely want to ask -- about her
I think I know what
About her escaping from the training school, and her coming to me
Yes
Well
I am glad of your kindness in coming to talk plainly to me about it. You know what they say?-- that I ought to marry her
What
And I wish with all my soul I could
I had no idea that it was of this nature! God forbid
No, no
I thought you understood? I mean that were I in a position to marry her, or someone, and settle down, instead of living in lodgings here and there, I should be glad
But -- since this painful matter has been opened up -- what really happened
Cases arise, and this is one, when even ungenerous questions must be put to make false assumptions impossible, and to kill scandal
Well now
I take it as your final word, and I know I can believe you, that the suspicion which led to her rustication is an absolutely baseless one
It is
Absolutely. So help me God
I have been to get my things from the college
You have not seen Mr. Phillotson to-day
I have not. But I am not going to be cross-examined about him; and if you ask anything more I won't answer
It is very odd that
What
That you are often not so nice in your real presence as you are in your letters
Does it really seem so to you
Well, that's strange; but I feel just the same about you, Jude. When you are gone away I seem such a coldhearted
It was that which made me write and say -- I didn't mind your loving me -- if you wanted to, much
I have never told you
Yes you have
I mean, I have never told you my history -- all of it
But I guess it. I know nearly
I can't quite tell you here in the street
And you had better not come to my lodgings. Let us go in here
Why didn't you tell me before
I couldn't. It seemed so cruel to tell it
To yourself, Jude. So it was better to be cruel to me
No, dear darling
I was ashamed of the episode in my life which brought about the marriage
I can't explain it precisely now. I could have done it if you had taken it differently
But how can I
Here I have been saying, or writing, that -- that you might love me, or something of the sort!-- just out of charity -- and all the time -- oh, it is perfectly damnable how things are
You take me wrong, Sue! I never thought you cared for me at all, till quite lately; so I felt it did not matter! Do you care for me, Sue?-- you know how I mean?-- I don't like 'out of charity' at all
I suppose she -- your wife -- is -- a very pretty woman, even if she's wicked
She's pretty enough, as far as that goes
Prettier than I am, no doubt
You are not the least alike. And I have never seen her for years... But she's sure to come back -- they always do
How strange of you to stay apart from her like this
You, such a religious man. How will the demi-gods in your Pantheon -- I mean those legendary persons you call saints -- intercede for you after this? Now if I had done such a thing it would have been different, and not remarkable, for I at least don't regard marriage as a sacrament. Your theories are not so advanced as your practice
Sue, you are terribly cutting when you like to be -- a perfect Voltaire! But you must treat me as you will
Ah -- you should have told me before you gave me that idea that you wanted to be allowed to love me! I had no feeling before that moment at the railway-station, except
Don't cry, dear
I am -- not crying -- because I meant to -- love you; but because of your want of -- confidence
No, no
Of course not! It would be hypocrisy to pretend that it would be meant as from my cousin; and it can't be in any other way
I don't blame you for what you couldn't help
How should I be so foolish? I do blame you a little bit for not telling me before. But, after all, it doesn't matter. We should have had to keep apart, you see, even if this had not been in your life
No, we shouldn't, Sue! This is the only obstacle
You forget that I must have loved you, and wanted to be your wife, even if there had been no obstacle
And then we are cousins, and it is bad for cousins to marry. And -- I am engaged to somebody else. As to our going on together as we were going, in a sort of friendly way, the people round us would have made it unable to continue. Their views of the relations of man and woman are limited, as is proved by their expelling me from the school. Their philosophy only recognizes relations based on animal desire. The wide field of strong attachment where desire plays, at least, only a secondary part, is ignored by them -- the part of -- who is it?-- Venus Urania
There were several reasons against my telling you rashly. One was what I have said; another, that it was always impressed upon me that I ought not to marry -- that I belonged to an odd and peculiar family -- the wrong breed for marriage
Ah -- who used to say that to you
My great-aunt. She said it always ended badly with us Fawleys
That's strange. My father used to say the same to me
Oh, but there can't be anything in it
Our family have been unlucky of late years in choosing mates -- that's all
O Susanna Florence Mary
You don't know what marriage means
married relation
What's the matter, Jude
Oh -- nothing
You are 'father', you know. That's what they call the man who gives you away
Phillotson's age entitles him to be called that
You have quite made up your mind
That's the church
Where I am going to be married
Yes
Indeed
How I should like to go in and see what the spot is like where I am so soon to kneel and do it
She does not realize what marriage means
I like to do things like this
I know you do
They are interesting, because they have probably never been done before. I shall walk down the church like this with my husband in about two hours, shan't I
No doubt you will
Was it like this when you were married
Good God, Sue -- don't be so awfully merciless! ... There, dear one, I didn't mean it
Ah -- you are vexed
And I promised never to vex you! ... I suppose I ought not to have asked you to bring me in here. Oh, I oughtn't! I see it now. My curiosity to hunt up a new sensation always leads me into these scrapes. Forgive me! ... You will, won't you, Jude
Now we'll hurry away, and I won't do it any more
We have been doing such a funny thing
We've been to the church, rehearsing as it were. Haven't we, Jude
How
I am going to buy her another little present. Will you both come to the shop with me
No
It looks so odd over a bonnet
I'll take the bonnet off
Oh no -- let it stay
No
It is my handkerchief. I know where I left it
Has anybody been for me
If at the estrangement or death of my lost love, I could go and see her child -- hers solely -- there would be comfort in it
Beersheba
Oh, Mr. Cockman, now! How can you tell such a tale to me in my innocence
Mr. Cockman, what do you use to make your moustache curl so beautiful
Come
I'll have a curacao; and a light, please
Well, have you heard from your husband lately, my dear
Not a sound
Where is he
I left him in Australia; and I suppose he's there still
What made you part from him
Don't you ask questions, and you won't hear lies
Come then, give me my change, which you've been keeping from me for the last quarter of an hour; and I'll romantically vanish up the street of this picturesque city
Well, I'm blest! I thought you were underground years ago
Oh
I never heard anything of you, or I don't know that I should have come here. But never mind! What shall I treat you to this afternoon? A Scotch and soda? Come, anything that the house will afford, for old acquaintance' sake
Thanks, Arabella
But I don't want anything more than I've had
That's a pity, now you could get it for nothing
How long have you been here
About six weeks. I returned from Sydney three months ago. I always liked this business, you know
I wonder you came to this place
Well, as I say, I thought you were gone to glory, and being in London I saw the situation in an advertisement. Nobody was likely to know me here, even if I had minded, for I was never in Christminster in my growing up
Why did you return from Australia
Oh, I had my reasons... Then you are not a don yet
No
Not even a reverend
No
Nor so much as a rather reverend dissenting gentleman
I am as I was
True -- you look so
So you pass as having a living husband
Yes. I thought it might be awkward if I called myself a widow, as I should have liked
True. I am known here a little
I didn't mean on that account -- for as I said I didn't expect you. It was for other reasons
What were they
I don't care to go into them
I make a very good living, and I don't know that I want your company
We can't talk here
Can't you wait till nine? Say yes, and don't be a fool. I can get off duty two hours sooner than usual, if I ask. I am not living in the house at present
I'll come back. I suppose we'd better arrange something
Oh, bother arranging! I'm not going to arrange anything
But I must know a thing or two; and, as you say, we can't talk here. Very well; I'll call for you
But you must have something with me first
Just an early night-cap: I always do. Then you can go out and wait a minute, as it is best we should not be seen going together
I live quite near
and can let myself in by a latch-key at any time. What arrangement do you want to come to
Oh -- none in particular
I ought to have gone back really! My aunt is on her deathbed, I fear
I'll go over with you to-morrow morning. I think I could get a day off
Of course, if you'd like to, you can
Well, that we'll consider... Now, until we have come to some agreement it is awkward our being together here -- where you are known, and I am getting known, though without any suspicion that I have anything to do with you. As we are going towards the station, suppose we take the nine-forty train to Aldbrickham? We shall be there in little more than half an hour, and nobody will know us for one night, and we shall be quite free to act as we choose till we have made up our minds whether we'll make anything public or not
As you like
Then wait till I get two or three things. This is my lodging. Sometimes when late I sleep at the hotel where I am engaged, so nobody will think anything of my staying out
Ah ... poor feeble me
What
This is the very road by which I came into Christminster years ago full of plans
Well, whatever the road is I think my time is nearly up, as I have to be in the bar by eleven o'clock. And as I said, I shan't ask for the day to go with you to see your aunt. So perhaps we had better part here. I'd sooner not walk up Chief Street with you, since we've come to no conclusion at all
Very well. But you said when we were getting up this morning that you had something you wished to tell me before I left
So I had -- two things -- one in particular. But you wouldn't promise to keep it a secret. I'll tell you now if you promise? As an honest woman I wish you to know it... It was what I began telling you in the night -- about that gentleman who managed the Sydney hotel
You'll keep it close
Yes -- yes -- I promise
Of course I don't want to reveal your secrets
Whenever I met him out for a walk, he used to say that he was much taken with my looks, and he kept pressing me to marry him. I never thought of coming back to England again; and being out there in Australia, with no home of my own after leaving my father, I at last agreed, and did
What -- marry him
Yes
Regularly -- legally -- in church
Yes. And lived with him till shortly before I left. It was stupid, I know; but I did! There, now I've told you. Don't round upon me! He talks of coming back to England, poor old chap. But if he does, he won't be likely to find me
Why the devil didn't you tell me last, night
Well -- I didn't... Won't you make it up with me, then
So in talking of 'your husband' to the bar gentlemen you meant him, of course -- not me
Of course... Come, don't fuss about it
I have nothing more to say
I have nothing at all to say about the -- crime -- you've confessed to
Crime! Pooh. They don't think much of such as that over there! Lots of 'em do it... Well, if you take it like that I shall go back to him! He was very fond of me, and we lived honourable enough, and as respectable as any married couple in the colony! How did I know where you were
I won't go blaming you. I could say a good deal; but perhaps it would be misplaced. What do you wish me to do
Nothing. There was one thing more I wanted to tell you; but I fancy we've seen enough of one another for the present! I shall think over what you said about your circumstances, and let you know
Oh, Jude -- I am so glad -- to meet you like this
I arrived at Alfredston station last night, as you asked me to, and there was nobody to meet me! But I reached Marygreen alone, and they told me Aunt was a trifle better. I sat up with her, and as you did not come all night I was frightened about you -- I thought that perhaps, when you found yourself back in the old city, you were upset at -- at thinking I was -- married, and not there as I used to be; and that you had nobody to speak to; so you had tried to drown your gloom -- as you did at that former time when you were disappointed about entering as a student, and had forgotten your promise to me that you never would again. And this, I thought, was why you hadn't come to meet me
And you came to hunt me up, and deliver me, like a good angel
I thought I would come by the morning train and try to find you -- in case -- in case
I did think of my promise to you, dear, continually! I shall never break out again as I did, I am sure. I may have been doing nothing better, but I was not doing that -- I loathe the thought of it
I am glad your staying had nothing to do with that. But
you didn't come back last night and meet me, as you engaged to
I didn't -- I am sorry to say. I had an appointment at nine o'clock -- too late for me to catch the train that would have met yours, or to get home at all
You'll go back with me
There's a train just now. I wonder how my aunt is by this time... And so, Sue, you really came on my account all this way! At what an early time you must have started, poor thing
Yes. Sitting up watching alone made me all nerves for you, and instead of going to bed when it got light I started. And now you won't frighten me like this again about your morals for nothing
Sue -- you are married now, you know, like me; and yet we have been in such a hurry that we have not said a word about it
There's no necessity
Jude -- don't talk about ME -- I wish you wouldn't
It distresses me, rather. Forgive my saying it! ... Where did you stay last night
At an inn
Phillotson
O yes
He is obliged to be in the school all the day, or he would have come with me. He is so good and kind that to accompany me he would have dismissed the school for once, even against his principles -- for he is strongly opposed to giving casual holidays -- only I wouldn't let him. I felt it would be better to come alone. Aunt Drusilla, I knew, was so very eccentric; and his being almost a stranger to her now would have made it irksome to both. Since it turns out that she is hardly conscious I am glad I did not ask him
Mr. Phillotson obliges you in everything, as he ought
Of course
You ought to be a happy wife
And of course I am
Bride, I might almost have said, as yet. It is not so many weeks since I gave you to him, and
Yes, I know! I know
The Wife's Guide to Conduct
Well, you have my good wishes now as always, Mrs. Phillotson
No, you are not Mrs. Phillotson
You are dear, free Sue Bridehead, only you don't know it! Wifedom has not yet squashed up and digested you in its vast maw as an atom which has no further individuality
Nor has husbandom you, so far as I can see
But it has
That's the house my wife and I occupied the whole of the time we lived together. I brought her home to that house
That to you was what the school-house at Shaston is to me
Yes; but I was not very happy there as you are in yours
Of course I may have exaggerated your happiness -- one never knows
Don't think that, Jude, for a moment, even though you may have said it to sting me! He's as good to me as a man can be, and gives me perfect liberty -- which elderly husbands don't do in general... If you think I am not happy because he's too old for me, you are wrong
I don't think anything against him -- to you dear
And you won't say things to distress me, will you
I will not
She's downstairs, if you'll believe me
Out o' bed she got, and nothing could turn her. What will come o't I do not know
Ah -- sceered ye, have I! I wasn't going to bide up there no longer, to please nobody! 'Tis more than flesh and blood can bear, to be ordered to do this and that by a feller that don't know half as well as you do yourself! ... Ah -- you'll rue this marrying as well as he
All our family do -- and nearly all everybody else's. You should have done as I did, you simpleton! And Phillotson the schoolmaster, of all men! What made 'ee marry him
What makes most women marry, Aunt
Ah! You mean to say you loved the man
I don't meant to say anything definite
Do ye love un
Don't ask me, Aunt
I can mind the man very well. A very civil, honourable liver; but Lord!-- I don't want to wownd your feelings, but -- there be certain men here and there that no woman of any niceness can stomach. I should have said he was one. I don't say so NOW, since you must ha' known better than I -- but that's what I SHOULD have said
Don't cry, dear
She means well, but is very crusty and queer now, you know
Oh no -- it isn't that
I don't mind her roughness one bit
What is it, then
It is that what she says is -- is true
God -- what -- you don't like him
I don't mean that
That I ought -- perhaps I ought not to have married
I'll go with you to the station, if you'd like
I suppose -- I may come to see you some day, when I am back again at Melchester
No, dear -- you are not to come yet. I don't think you are in a good mood
Very well
Good-bye
Good-bye
She's right! I won't go
The Foot of the Cross
Yes
He is a local man. He is a professional musician at Kennetbridge -- between here and Christminster. The vicar knows him. He was brought up and educated in Christminster traditions, which accounts for the quality of the piece. I think he plays in the large church there, and has a surpliced choir. He comes to Melchester sometimes, and once tried to get the cathedral organ when the post was vacant. The hymn is getting about everywhere this Easter
He of all men would understand my difficulties
Which way
Straight along homeward from church
A hungry soul in pursuit of a full soul
I must speak to that man
I have been singing in the choir of a little church near Melchester
And we have this week practised 'The Foot of the Cross,' which I understand, sir, that you composed
I did -- a year or so ago
I -- like it. I think it supremely beautiful
Ah well -- other people have said so too. Yes, there's money in it, if I could only see about getting it published. I have other compositions to go with it, too; I wish I could bring them out; for I haven't made a five-pound note out of any of them yet. These publishing people -- they want the copyright of an obscure composer's work, such as mine is, for almost less than I should have to pay a person for making a fair manuscript copy of the score. The one you speak of I have lent to various friends about here and Melchester, and so it has got to be sung a little. But music is a poor staff to lean on -- I am giving it up entirely. You must go into trade if you want to make money nowadays. The wine business is what I am thinking of. This is my forthcoming list -- it is not issued yet -- but you can take one
the Martyr
Don't stop
I like it. I learnt it before I left Melchester. They used to play it in the training school
I can't strum before you! Play it for me
Oh well -- I don't mind
It is odd
that I should care about that air; because
Because what
I am not that sort -- quite
Not easily moved
I didn't quite mean that
Oh, but you ARE one of that sort, for you are just like me at heart
But not at head
How funny
I wonder what we both did that for
I suppose because we are both alike, as I said before
Not in our thoughts! Perhaps a little in our feelings
And they rule thoughts... Isn't it enough to make one blaspheme that the composer of that hymn is one of the most commonplace men I ever met
What -- you know him
I went to see him
Oh, you goose -- to do just what I should have done! Why did you
Because we are not alike
Now we'll have some tea
Shall we have it here instead of in my house? It is no trouble to get the kettle and things brought in. We don't live at the school you know, but in that ancient dwelling across the way called Old-Grove Place. It is so antique and dismal that it depresses me dreadfully. Such houses are very well to visit, but not to live in -- I feel crushed into the earth by the weight of so many previous lives there spent. In a new place like these schools there is only your own life to support. Sit down, and I'll tell Ada to bring the tea-things across
This is one of your wedding-presents to me
Yes
Do you know of any good readable edition of the uncanonical books of the New Testament? You don't read them in the school I suppose
Oh dear no!--'twould alarm the neighbourhood... Yes, there is one. I am not familiar with it now, though I was interested in it when my former friend was alive. Cowper's _Apocryphal Gospels_
That sounds like what I want
former friend
The Gospel of Nicodemus is very nice
It is quite like the genuine article. All cut up into verses, too; so that it is like one of the other evangelists read in a dream, when things are the same, yet not the same. But, Jude, do you take an interest in those questions still? Are you getting up _Apologetica_
Yes. I am reading Divinity harder than ever
Why do you look at me like that
Oh -- why do you want to know
I am sure you can tell me anything I may be ignorant of in that subject. You must have learnt a lot of everything from your dear dead friend
We won't get on to that now
Will you be carving out at that church again next week, where you learnt the pretty hymn
Yes, perhaps
That will be very nice. Shall I come and see you there? It is in this direction, and I could come any afternoon by train for half an hour
No. Don't come
What -- aren't we going to be friends, then, any longer, as we used to be
No
I didn't know that. I thought you were always going to be kind to me
No, I am not
What have I done, then? I am sure I thought we two
Sue, I sometimes think you are a flirt
I can't talk to you any longer, Jude
It is getting too dark to stay together like this, after playing morbid Good Friday tunes that make one feel what one shouldn't! ... We mustn't sit and talk in this way any more. Yes -- you must go away, for you mistake me! I am very much the reverse of what you say so cruelly -- Oh, Jude, it WAS cruel to say that! Yet I can't tell you the truth -- I should shock you by letting you know how I give way to my impulses, and how much I feel that I shouldn't have been provided with attractiveness unless it were meant to be exercised! Some women's love of being loved is insatiable; and so, often, is their love of loving; and in the last case they may find that they can't give it continuously to the chamber-officer appointed by the bishop's licence to receive it. But you are so straightforward, Jude, that you can't understand me! ... Now you must go. I am sorry my husband is not at home
Are you
I perceive I have said that in mere convention! Honestly I don't think I am sorry. It does not matter, either way, sad to say
When do you leave here to catch your train, Jude
The coach that runs to meet it goes in three-quarters of an hour or so
What will you do with yourself for the time
Oh -- wander about, I suppose. Perhaps I shall go and sit in the old church
It does seem hard of me to pack you off so! You have thought enough of churches, Heaven knows, without going into one in the dark. Stay there
Where
Where you are. I can talk to you better like this than when you were inside... It was so kind and tender of you to give up half a day's work to come to see me! ... You are Joseph the dreamer of dreams, dear Jude. And a tragic Don Quixote. And sometimes you are St. Stephen, who, while they were stoning him, could see Heaven opened. Oh, my poor friend and comrade, you'll suffer yet
I have been thinking
that the social moulds civilization fits us into have no more relation to our actual shapes than the conventional shapes of the constellations have to the real star-patterns. I am called Mrs. Richard Phillotson, living a calm wedded life with my counterpart of that name. But I am not really Mrs. Richard Phillotson, but a woman tossed about, all alone, with aberrant passions, and unaccountable antipathies... Now you mustn't wait longer, or you will lose the coach. Come and see me again. You must come to the house then
Yes
When shall it be
To-morrow week. Good-bye -- good-bye
Whose photograph was she looking at
I can see in his face that she is dead
Poor Aunt Drusilla
She wouldn't have knowed 'ee. She lay like a doll wi' glass eyes; so it didn't matter that you wasn't here
I thought
that it would be so sad to let you attend the funeral alone! And so -- at the last moment -- I came
Dear faithful Sue
She was opposed to marriage, from first to last, you say
Yes. Particularly for members of our family
We are rather a sad family, don't you think, Jude
She said we made bad husbands and wives. Certainly we make unhappy ones. At all events, I do, for one
Is it wrong, Jude
for a husband or wife to tell a third person that they are unhappy in their marriage? If a marriage ceremony is a religious thing, it is possibly wrong; but if it is only a sordid contract, based on material convenience in householding, rating, and taxing, and the inheritance of land and money by children, making it necessary that the male parent should be known -- which it seems to be -- why surely a person may say, even proclaim upon the housetops, that it hurts and grieves him or her
I have said so, anyhow, to you
Are there many couples, do you think, where one dislikes the other for no definite fault
Yes, I suppose. If either cares for another person, for instance
But even apart from that? Wouldn't the woman, for example, be very bad-natured if she didn't like to live with her husband; merely
merely because she had a personal feeling against it -- a physical objection -- a fastidiousness, or whatever it may be called -- although she might respect and be grateful to him? I am merely putting a case. Ought she to try to overcome her pruderies
It would be just one of those cases in which my experiences go contrary to my dogmas. Speaking as an order-loving man -- which I hope I am, though I fear I am not -- I should say, yes. Speaking from experience and unbiased nature, I should say, no.... Sue, I believe you are not happy
Of course I am
How can a woman be unhappy who has only been married eight weeks to a man she chose freely
Chose freely
Why do you repeat it? ... But I have to go back by the six o'clock train. You will be staying on here, I suppose
For a few days to wind up Aunt's affairs. This house is gone now. Shall I go to the train with you
I think not. You may come part of the way
But stop -- you can't go to-night! That train won't take you to Shaston. You must stay and go back to-morrow. Mrs. Edlin has plenty of room, if you don't like to stay here
Very well
I didn't tell him I would come for certain
It is horrible how we are circumstanced, Sue -- horrible
No! Why
I can't tell you all my part of the gloom. Your part is that you ought not to have married him. I saw it before you had done it, but I thought I mustn't interfere. I was wrong. I ought to have
But what makes you assume all this, dear
Because -- I can see you through your feathers, my poor little bird
That's absurd, Sue
after what we've been talking about! I am more strict and formal than you, if it comes to that; and that you should object to such an innocent action shows that you are ridiculously inconsistent
Perhaps it was too prudish
Only I have fancied it was a sort of trick of ours -- too frequent perhaps. There, you may hold it as much as you like. Is that good of me
Yes; very
But I must tell him
Who
Richard
Oh -- of course, if you think it necessary. But as it means nothing it may be bothering him needlessly
Well -- are you sure you mean it only as my cousin
Absolutely sure. I have no feelings of love left in me
That's news. How has it come to be
I've seen Arabella
When did you see her
When I was at Christminster
So she's come back; and you never told me! I suppose you will live with her now
Of course -- just as you live with your husband
What is it
Why should you be so glad to go back to her if -- if what you used to say to me is still true -- I mean if it were true then! Of course it is not now! How could your heart go back to Arabella so soon
A special Providence, I suppose, helped it on its way
Ah -- it isn't true
You are teasing me -- that's all -- because you think I am not happy
I don't know. I don't wish to know
If I were unhappy it would be my fault, my wickedness; not that I should have a right to dislike him! He is considerate to me in everything; and he is very interesting, from the amount of general knowledge he has acquired by reading everything that comes in his way.... Do you think, Jude, that a man ought to marry a woman his own age, or one younger than himself -- eighteen years -- as I am than he
It depends upon what they feel for each other
I -- I think I must be equally honest with you as you have been with me. Perhaps you have seen what it is I want to say?-- that though I like Mr. Phillotson as a friend, I don't like him -- it is a torture to me to -- live with him as a husband!-- There, now I have let it out -- I couldn't help it, although I have been -- pretending I am happy.-- Now you'll have a contempt for me for ever, I suppose
I have only been married a month or two
And it is said that what a woman shrinks from -- in the early days of her marriage -- she shakes down to with comfortable indifference in half a dozen years. But that is much like saying that the amputation of a limb is no affliction, since a person gets comfortably accustomed to the use of a wooden leg or arm in the course of time
I thought there was something wrong, Sue! Oh, I thought there was
But it is not as you think!-- there is nothing wrong except my own wickedness, I suppose you'd call it -- a repugnance on my part, for a reason I cannot disclose, and what would not be admitted as one by the world in general! ... What tortures me so much is the necessity of being responsive to this man whenever he wishes, good as he is morally!-- the dreadful contract to feel in a particular way in a matter whose essence is its voluntariness! ... I wish he would beat me, or be faithless to me, or do some open thing that I could talk about as a justification for feeling as I do! But he does nothing, except that he has grown a little cold since he has found out how I feel. That's why he didn't come to the funeral... Oh, I am very miserable -- I don't know what to do! ... Don't come near me, Jude, because you mustn't. Don't -- don't
I told you not to, Jude
I know you did -- I only wish to -- console you! It all arose through my being married before we met, didn't it? You would have been my wife, Sue, wouldn't you, if it hadn't been for that
good catch
Jude
It is you -- is it not
Yes, dear
I haven't been able to sleep at all, and then I heard the rabbit, and couldn't help thinking of what it suffered, till I felt I must come down and kill it! But I am so glad you got there first... They ought not to be allowed to set these steel traps, ought they
Did it keep you awake
No -- I was awake
How was that
Oh, you know -- now! I know you, with your religious doctrines, think that a married woman in trouble of a kind like mine commits a mortal sin in making a man the confidant of it, as I did you. I wish I hadn't, now
Don't wish it, dear
That may have BEEN my view; but my doctrines and I begin to part company
I knew it -- I knew it! And that's why I vowed I wouldn't disturb your belief. But -- I am SO GLAD to see you!-- and, oh, I didn't mean to see you again, now the last tie between us, Aunt Drusilla, is dead
There is a stronger one left
I'll never care about my doctrines or my religion any more! Let them go! Let me help you, even if I do love you, and even if you
Don't say it!-- I know what you mean; but I can't admit so much as that. There! Guess what you like, but don't press me to answer questions
I wish you were happy, whatever I may be
I CAN'T be! So few could enter into my feeling -- they would say 'twas my fanciful fastidiousness, or something of that sort, and condemn me... It is none of the natural tragedies of love that's love's usual tragedy in civilized life, but a tragedy artificially manufactured for people who in a natural state would find relief in parting! ... It would have been wrong, perhaps, for me to tell my distress to you, if I had been able to tell it to anybody else. But I have nobody. And I MUST tell somebody! Jude, before I married him I had never thought out fully what marriage meant, even though I knew. It was idiotic of me -- there is no excuse. I was old enough, and I thought I was very experienced. So I rushed on, when I had got into that training school scrape, with all the cock-sureness of the fool that I was! ... I am certain one ought to be allowed to undo what one had done so ignorantly! I daresay it happens to lots of women, only they submit, and I kick... When people of a later age look back upon the barbarous customs and superstitions of the times that we have the unhappiness to live in, what WILL they say
You are very bitter, darling Sue! How I wish -- I wish
You must go in now
Will you swear that it will not be in that spirit
Is it
that the women are to blame; or is it the artificial system of things, under which the normal sex-impulses are turned into devilish domestic gins and springs to noose and hold back those who want to progress
Burning up your awld aunt's rubbidge, I suppose? Ay; a lot gets heaped up in nooks and corners when you've lived eighty years in one house
I have been too weak, I think
It was burning, like a lover's -- oh, it was! And I won't write to him any more, or at least for a long time, to impress him with my dignity! And I hope it will hurt him very much -- expecting a letter to-morrow morning, and the next, and the next, and no letter coming. He'll suffer then with suspense -- won't he, that's all!-- and I am very glad of it
Richard -- I let Mr. Fawley hold my hand a long while. I don't know whether you think it wrong
Oh, did you? What did you do that for
I don't know. He wanted to, and I let him
I hope it pleased him. I should think it was hardly a novelty
I think
that I must get the committee to change the school-stationer. All the copybooks are sent wrong this time
And there must be a rearrangement of that ventilator in the class-room. The wind blows down upon my head unmercifully and gives me the ear-ache
Old-Grove Place
Soo
Soo
Yes
What are you doing down there at midnight -- tiring yourself out for nothing
I am not sleepy; I am reading; and there is a larger fire here
Yes
What are you doing in there
Not to disturb you I came here, as it was so late
But there's no bed, is there? And no ventilation! Why, you'll be suffocated if you stay all night
Oh no, I think not. Don't trouble about me
But
You ought not to have pulled open the door
It is not becoming in you! Oh, will you go away; please will you
I've been kind to you, and given you every liberty; and it is monstrous that you should feel in this way
Yes
I know that! It is wrong and wicked of me, I suppose! I am very sorry. But it is not I altogether that am to blame
Who is then? Am I
No -- I don't know! The universe, I suppose -- things in general, because they are so horrid and cruel
Well, it is no use talking like that. Making a man's house so unseemly at this time o' night! Eliza will hear if we don't mind
Just think if either of the parsons in this town was to see us now! I hate such eccentricities, Sue. There's no order or regularity in your sentiments! ... But I won't intrude on you further; only I would advise you not to shut the door too tight, or I shall find you stifled to-morrow
What must a woman's aversion be when it is stronger than her fear of spiders
Richard
would you mind my living away from you
Away from me? Why, that's what you were doing when I married you. What then was the meaning of marrying at all
You wouldn't like me any the better for telling you
I don't object to know
Because I thought I could do nothing else. You had got my promise a long time before that, remember. Then, as time went on, I regretted I had promised you, and was trying to see an honourable way to break it off. But as I couldn't I became rather reckless and careless about the conventions. Then you know what scandals were spread, and how I was turned out of the training school you had taken such time and trouble to prepare me for and get me into; and this frightened me and it seemed then that the one thing I could do would be to let the engagement stand. Of course I, of all people, ought not to have cared what was said, for it was just what I fancied I never did care for. But I was a coward -- as so many women are -- and my theoretic unconventionality broke down. If that had not entered into the case it would have been better to have hurt your feelings once for all then, than to marry you and hurt them all my life after... And you were so generous in never giving credit for a moment to the rumour
I am bound in honesty to tell you that I weighed its probability and inquired of your cousin about it
Ah
I didn't doubt you
But you inquired
I took his word
HE wouldn't have inquired
But you haven't answered me. Will you let me go away? I know how irregular it is of me to ask it
It is irregular
But I do ask it! Domestic laws should be made according to temperaments, which should be classified. If people are at all peculiar in character they have to suffer from the very rules that produce comfort in others! ... Will you let me
But we married
What is the use of thinking of laws and ordinances
if they make you miserable when you know you are committing no sin
But you are committing a sin in not liking me
I DO like you! But I didn't reflect it would be -- that it would be so much more than that... For a man and woman to live on intimate terms when one feels as I do is adultery, in any circumstances, however legal. There -- I've said it! ... Will you let me, Richard
You distress me, Susanna, by such importunity
Why can't we agree to free each other? We made the compact, and surely we can cancel it -- not legally of course; but we can morally, especially as no new interests, in the shape of children, have arisen to be looked after. Then we might be friends, and meet without pain to either. Oh Richard, be my friend and have pity! We shall both be dead in a few years, and then what will it matter to anybody that you relieved me from constraint for a little while? I daresay you think me eccentric, or super-sensitive, or something absurd. Well -- why should I suffer for what I was born to be, if it doesn't hurt other people
But it does -- it hurts ME! And you vowed to love me
Yes -- that's it! I am in the wrong. I always am! It is as culpable to bind yourself to love always as to believe a creed always, and as silly as to vow always to like a particular food or drink
And do you mean, by living away from me, living by yourself
Well, if you insisted, yes. But I meant living with Jude
As his wife
As I choose
She, or he, 'who lets the world, or his own portion of it, choose his plan of life for him, has no need of any other faculty than the apelike one of imitation.' J. S. Mill's words, those are. I have been reading it up. Why can't you act upon them? I wish to, always
What do I care about J. S. Mill
I only want to lead a quiet life! Do you mind my saying that I have guessed what never once occurred to me before our marriage -- that you were in love, and are in love, with Jude Fawley
You may go on guessing that I am, since you have begun. But do you suppose that if I had been I should have asked you to let me go and live with him
Thank God -- you are not killed! Though it's not for want of trying -- not much hurt I hope
I was asleep, I think
And something frightened me -- a terrible dream -- I thought I saw you
Shall I help you upstairs
No thank you, Richard. I am very little hurt. I can walk
You ought to lock your door
Then no one could intrude even by accident
I have tried -- it won't lock. All the doors are out of order
Glad to see you, Dick! But you don't look well? Nothing the matter
Why you haven't been here -- let me see -- since you were married? I called, you know, but you were out; and upon my word it is such a climb after dark that I have been waiting till the days are longer before lumpering up again. I am glad you didn't wait, however
I've come, George, to explain to you my reasons for taking a step that I am about to take, so that you, at least, will understand my motives if other people question them anywhen -- as they may, indeed certainly will... But anything is better than the present condition of things. God forbid that you should ever have such an experience as mine
Sit down. You don't mean -- anything wrong between you and Mrs. Phillotson
I do... My wretched state is that I've a wife I love who not only does not love me, but -- but -- Well, I won't say. I know her feeling! I should prefer hatred from her
Ssh
And the sad part of it is that she is not so much to blame as I. She was a pupil-teacher under me, as you know, and I took advantage of her inexperience, and toled her out for walks, and got her to agree to a long engagement before she well knew her own mind. Afterwards she saw somebody else, but she blindly fulfilled her engagement
Loving the other
Yes; with a curious tender solicitude seemingly; though her exact feeling for him is a riddle to me -- and to him too, I think -- possibly to herself. She is one of the oddest creatures I ever met. However, I have been struck with these two facts; the extraordinary sympathy, or similarity, between the pair. He is her cousin, which perhaps accounts for some of it. They seem to be one person split in two! And with her unconquerable aversion to myself as a husband, even though she may like me as a friend, 'tis too much to bear longer. She has conscientiously struggled against it, but to no purpose. I cannot bear it -- I cannot! I can't answer her arguments -- she has read ten times as much as I. Her intellect sparkles like diamonds, while mine smoulders like brown paper... She's one too many for me
She'll get over it, good-now
Never! It is -- but I won't go into it -- there are reasons why she never will. At last she calmly and firmly asked if she might leave me and go to him. The climax came last night, when, owing to my entering her room by accident, she jumped out of window -- so strong was her dread of me! She pretended it was a dream, but that was to soothe me. Now when a woman jumps out of window without caring whether she breaks her neck or no, she's not to be mistaken; and this being the case I have come to a conclusion: that it is wrong to so torture a fellow-creature any longer; and I won't be the inhuman wretch to do it, cost what it may
What -- you'll let her go? And with her lover
Whom with is her matter. I shall let her go; with him certainly, if she wishes. I know I may be wrong -- I know I can't logically, or religiously, defend my concession to such a wish of hers, or harmonize it with the doctrines I was brought up in. Only I know one thing: something within me tells me I am doing wrong in refusing her. I, like other men, profess to hold that if a husband gets such a so-called preposterous request from his wife, the only course that can possibly be regarded as right and proper and honourable in him is to refuse it, and put her virtuously under lock and key, and murder her lover perhaps. But is that essentially right, and proper, and honourable, or is it contemptibly mean and selfish? I don't profess to decide. I simply am going to act by instinct, and let principles take care of themselves. If a person who has blindly walked into a quagmire cries for help, I am inclined to give it, if possible
But -- you see, there's the question of neighbours and society -- what will happen if everybody
Oh, I am not going to be a philosopher any longer! I only see what's under my eyes
Well -- I don't agree with your instinct, Dick
I am quite amazed, to tell the truth, that such a sedate, plodding fellow as you should have entertained such a craze for a moment. You said when I called that she was puzzling and peculiar: I think you are
Have you ever stood before a woman whom you know to be intrinsically a good woman, while she has pleaded for release -- been the man she has knelt to and implored indulgence of
I am thankful to say I haven't
Then I don't think you are in a position to give an opinion. I have been that man, and it makes all the difference in the world, if one has any manliness or chivalry in him. I had not the remotest idea -- living apart from women as I have done for so many years -- that merely taking a woman to church and putting a ring upon her finger could by any possibility involve one in such a daily, continuous tragedy as that now shared by her and me
Well, I could admit some excuse for letting her leave you, provided she kept to herself. But to go attended by a cavalier -- that makes a difference
Not a bit. Suppose, as I believe, she would rather endure her present misery than be made to promise to keep apart from him? All that is a question for herself. It is not the same thing at all as the treachery of living on with a husband and playing him false... However, she has not distinctly implied living with him as wife, though I think she means to... And to the best of my understanding it is not an ignoble, merely animal, feeling between the two: that is the worst of it; because it makes me think their affection will be enduring. I did not mean to confess to you that in the first jealous weeks of my marriage, before I had come to my right mind, I hid myself in the school one evening when they were together there, and I heard what they said. I am ashamed of it now, though I suppose I was only exercising a legal right. I found from their manner that an extraordinary affinity, or sympathy, entered into their attachment, which somehow took away all flavour of grossness. Their supreme desire is to be together -- to share each other's emotions, and fancies, and dreams
Platonic
Well no. Shelleyan would be nearer to it. They remind me of -- what are their names -- Laon and Cythna. Also of Paul and Virginia a little. The more I reflect, the more ENTIRELY I am on their side
But if people did as you want to do, there'd be a general domestic disintegration. The family would no longer be the social unit
Yes -- I am all abroad, I suppose
I was never a very bright reasoner, you remember.... And yet, I don't see why the woman and the children should not be the unit without the man
By the Lord Harry!-- Matriarchy! ... Does SHE say all this too
Oh no. She little thinks I have out-Sued Sue in this -- all in the last twelve hours
It will upset all received opinion hereabout. Good God -- what will Shaston say
I don't say that it won't. I don't know -- I don't know! ... As I say, I am only a feeler, not a reasoner
Now
let us take it quietly, and have something to drink over it
I think you are rafted, and not yourself
Do go back and make up your mind to put up with a few whims. But keep her. I hear on all sides that she's a charming young thing
Ah yes! That's the bitterness of it! Well, I won't stay. I have a long walk before me
Stick to her
Aye, aye
So Gillingham, my friend, you had no stronger arguments against it than those
I think she ought to be smacked, and brought to her senses -- that's what I think
You may go -- with whom you will. I absolutely and unconditionally agree
You had better have a slice of ham or an egg, or something with your tea? You can't travel on a mouthful of bread and butter
I am a bachelor by nature, as you know, Sue
So that being without a wife will not really be irksome to me, as it might be to other men who have had one a little while. I have, too, this grand hobby in my head of writing 'The Roman Antiquities of Wessex,' which will occupy all my spare hours
If you will send me some of the manuscript to copy at any time, as you used to, I will do it with so much pleasure
I should much like to be some help to you still -- as a -- friend
No, I think we ought to be really separate, if we are to be at all. And for this reason, that I don't wish to ask you any questions, and particularly wish you not to give me information as to your movements, or even your address... Now, what money do you want? You must have some, you know
Oh, of course, Richard, I couldn't think of having any of your money to go away from you with! I don't want any either. I have enough of my own to last me for a long while, and Jude will let me have
I would rather not know anything about him, if you don't mind. You are free, absolutely; and your course is your own
Very well. But I'll just say that I have packed only a change or two of my own personal clothing, and one or two little things besides that are my very own. I wish you would look into my trunk before it is closed. Besides that I have only a small parcel that will go into Jude's portmanteau
Of course I shall do no such thing as examine your luggage! I wish you would take three-quarters of the household furniture. I don't want to be bothered with it. I have a sort of affection for a little of it that belonged to my poor mother and father. But the rest you are welcome to whenever you like to send for it
That I shall never do
You go by the six-thirty train, don't you? It is now a quarter to six
You... You don't seem very sorry I am going, Richard
Oh no -- perhaps not
I like you much for how you have behaved. It is a curious thing that directly I have begun to regard you as not my husband, but as my old teacher, I like you. I won't be so affected as to say I love you, because you know I don't, except as a friend. But you do seem that to me
I could make nobody hear; so finding your door open I walked in, and made myself comfortable. I said I would call, you remember
Yes. I am much obliged to you, Gillingham, particularly for coming to-night
How is Mrs
She is quite well. She is gone -- just gone. That's her tea-cup, that she drank out of only an hour ago. And that's the plate she
Have you had any tea, by the by
No -- yes -- never mind
Gone, you say she is
Yes... I would have died for her; but I wouldn't be cruel to her in the name of the law. She is, as I understand, gone to join her lover. What they are going to do I cannot say. Whatever it may be she has my full consent to
Shall I -- leave you
No, no. It is a mercy to me that you have come. I have some articles to arrange and clear away. Would you help me
She wouldn't take all I wanted her to
But when I made up my mind to her going to live in her own way I did make up my mind
Some men would have stopped at an agreement to separate
I've gone into all that, and don't wish to argue it. I was, and am, the most old-fashioned man in the world on the question of marriage -- in fact I had never thought critically about its ethics at all. But certain facts stared me in the face, and I couldn't go against them
There
To adorn her in somebody's eyes; never again in mine
Oh Jude
I -- I am so glad! I get out here
No. I get in, dear one! I've packed. Besides this bag I've only a big box which is labelled
But don't I get out? Aren't we going to stay here
We couldn't possibly, don't you see. We are known here -- I, at any rate, am well known. I've booked for Aldbrickham; and here's your ticket for the same place, as you have only one to here
I thought we should have stayed here
It wouldn't have done at all
Ah! Perhaps not
There wasn't time for me to write and say the place I had decided on. Aldbrickham is a much bigger town -- sixty or seventy thousand inhabitants -- and nobody knows anything about us there
And you have given up your cathedral work here
Yes. It was rather sudden -- your message coming unexpectedly. Strictly, I might have been made to finish out the week. But I pleaded urgency and I was let off. I would have deserted any day at your command, dear Sue. I have deserted more than that for you
I fear I am doing you a lot of harm. Ruining your prospects of the Church; ruining your progress in your trade; everything
Oh I seem so bad -- upsetting men's courses like this
He has been so good in letting me go
And here's a note I found on my dressing-table, addressed to you
Yes. He's not an unworthy fellow
And I am ashamed of myself for hating him because he married you
According to the rule of women's whims I suppose I ought to suddenly love him, because he has let me go so generously and unexpectedly
But I am so cold, or devoid of gratitude, or so something, that even this generosity hasn't made me love him, or repent, or want to stay with him as his wife; although I do feel I like his large-mindedness, and respect him more than ever
It may not work so well for us as if he had been less kind, and you had run away against his will
That I NEVER would have done
No -- only once now -- please, Jude
That's rather cruel
Such a strange thing has happened to me
Arabella has actually written to ask me to get a divorce from her -- in kindness to her, she says. She wants to honestly and legally marry that man she has already married virtually; and begs me to enable her to do it
What have you done
I have agreed. I thought at first I couldn't do it without getting her into trouble about that second marriage, and I don't want to injure her in any way. Perhaps she's no worse than I am, after all! But nobody knows about it over here, and I find it will not be a difficult proceeding at all. If she wants to start afresh I have only too obvious reasons for not hindering her
Then you'll be free
Yes, I shall be free
Where are we booked for
Aldbrickham, as I said
But it will be very late when we get there
Yes. I thought of that, and I wired for a room for us at the Temperance Hotel there
One
Yes -- one
Oh Jude
I thought you might do it; and that I was deceiving you. But I didn't mean that
Well
Well
Don't be vexed, dear
Oh -- there's no harm done
But -- I understood it like that... Is this a sudden change of mind
You have no right to ask me such a question; and I shan't answer
My dear one, your happiness is more to me than anything -- although we seem to verge on quarrelling so often!-- and your will is law to me. I am something more than a mere -- selfish fellow, I hope. Have it as you wish
But perhaps it is that you don't love me -- not that you have become conventional! Much as, under your teaching, I hate convention, I hope it IS that, not the other terrible alternative
Put it down to my timidity
to a woman's natural timidity when the crisis comes. I may feel as well as you that I have a perfect right to live with you as you thought -- from this moment. I may hold the opinion that, in a proper state of society, the father of a woman's child will be as much a private matter of hers as the cut of her underlinen, on whom nobody will have any right to question her. But partly, perhaps, because it is by his generosity that I am now free, I would rather not be other than a little rigid. If there had been a rope-ladder, and he had run after us with pistols, it would have seemed different, and I may have acted otherwise. But don't press me and criticize me, Jude! Assume that I haven't the courage of my opinions. I know I am a poor miserable creature. My nature is not so passionate as yours
I thought -- what I naturally thought. But if we are not lovers, we are not. Phillotson thought so, I am sure. See, here is what he has written to me
I make only one condition -- that you are tender and kind to her. I know you love her. But even love may be cruel at times. You are made for each other: it is obvious, palpable, to any unbiased older person. You were all along 'the shadowy third' in my short life with her. I repeat, take care of Sue
He's a good fellow, isn't he
He was very resigned to letting me go -- too resigned almost! I never was so near being in love with him as when he made such thoughtful arrangements for my being comfortable on my journey, and offering to provide money. Yet I was not. If I loved him ever so little as a wife, I'd go back to him even now
But you don't, do you
It is true -- oh so terribly true!-- I don't
Nor me neither, I half-fear
Nor anybody perhaps! Sue, sometimes, when I am vexed with you, I think you are incapable of real love
That's not good and loyal of you
My liking for you is not as some women's perhaps. But it is a delight in being with you, of a supremely delicate kind, and I don't want to go further and risk it by -- an attempt to intensify it! I quite realized that, as woman with man, it was a risk to come. But, as me with you, I resolved to trust you to set my wishes above your gratification. Don't discuss it further, dear Jude
Of course, if it would make you reproach yourself... but you do like me very much, Sue? Say you do! Say that you do a quarter, a tenth, as much as I do you, and I'll be content
I've let you kiss me, and that tells enough
Just once or so
Well -- don't be a greedy boy
This is a queer elopement
Perhaps you are making a cat's paw of me with Phillotson all this time. Upon my word it almost seems so -- to see you sitting up there so prim
Now you mustn't be angry -- I won't let you
You did kiss me just now, you know; and I didn't dislike you to, I own it, Jude. Only I don't want to let you do it again, just yet -- considering how we are circumstanced, don't you see
I can't possibly go to that Temperance Inn, after your telegraphing that message
Why not
You can see well enough
Very well; there'll be some other one open, no doubt. I have sometimes thought, since your marrying Phillotson because of a stupid scandal, that under the affectation of independent views you are as enslaved to the social code as any woman I know
Not mentally. But I haven't the courage of my views, as I said before. I didn't marry him altogether because of the scandal. But sometimes a woman's LOVE OF BEING LOVED gets the better of her conscience, and though she is agonized at the thought of treating a man cruelly, she encourages him to love her while she doesn't love him at all. Then, when she sees him suffering, her remorse sets in, and she does what she can to repair the wrong
You simply mean that you flirted outrageously with him, poor old chap, and then repented, and to make reparation, married him, though you tortured yourself to death by doing it
Well -- if you will put it brutally!-- it was a little like that -- that and the scandal together -- and your concealing from me what you ought to have told me before
There, dear; don't mind! Crucify me, if you will! You know you are all the world to me, whatever you do
I am very bad and unprincipled -- I know you think that
I think and know you are my dear Sue, from whom neither length nor breadth, nor things present nor things to come, can divide me
I think, ma'am, I remember your relation, or friend, or whatever he is, coming here once before -- late, just like this, with his wife -- a lady, at any rate, that wasn't you by no manner of means -- jest as med be with you now
Oh do you
Though I think you must be mistaken! How long ago was it
About a month or two. A handsome, full-figured woman. They had this room
Jude
it is not so nice and pleasant as it used to be with us! I don't like it here -- I can't bear the place! And I don't like you so well as I did
How fidgeted you seem, dear! Why do you change like this
Because it was cruel to bring me here
Why
You were lately here with Arabella. There, now I have said it
Dear me, why
Yes -- it is the same! I really didn't know it, Sue. Well -- it is not cruel, since we have come as we have -- two relations staying together
How long ago was it you were here? Tell me, tell me
The day before I met you in Christminster, when we went back to Marygreen together. I told you I had met her
Yes, you said you had met her, but you didn't tell me all. Your story was that you had met as estranged people, who were not husband and wife at all in Heaven's sight -- not that you had made it up with her
We didn't make it up
I can't explain, Sue
You've been false to me; you, my last hope! And I shall never forget it, never
But by your own wish, dear Sue, we are only to be friends, not lovers! It is so very inconsistent of you to
Friends can be jealous
I don't see that. You concede nothing to me and I have to concede everything to you. After all, you were on good terms with your husband at that time
No, I wasn't, Jude. Oh how can you think so! And you have taken me in, even if you didn't intend to
Was it this room? Yes it was -- I see by your look it was! I won't have it for mine! Oh it was treacherous of you to have her again! _I_ jumped out of the window
But Sue, she was, after all, my legal wife, if not
I never knew such an unreasonable -- such a dog-in-the-manger feeling
I am not to approach you, nor anybody else
Oh don't you UNDERSTAND my feeling! Why don't you! Why are you so gross! _I_ jumped out of the window
Jumped out of window
I can't explain
I -- I thought you cared for nobody -- desired nobody in the world but me at that time -- and ever since
It is true. I did not, and don't now
But you must have thought much of her! Or
No -- I need not -- you don't understand me either -- women never do! Why should you get into such a tantrum about nothing
If it hadn't been for that, perhaps I would have gone on to the Temperance Hotel, after all, as you proposed; for I was beginning to think I did belong to you
Oh, it is of no consequence
I thought, of course, that she had never been really your wife since she left you of her own accord years and years ago! My sense of it was, that a parting such as yours from her, and mine from him, ended the marriage
I can't say more without speaking against her, and I don't want to do that
Yet I must tell you one thing, which would settle the matter in any case. She has married another man -- really married him! I knew nothing about it till after the visit we made here
Married another? ... It is a crime -- as the world treats it, but does not believe
There -- now you are yourself again. Yes, it is a crime -- as you don't hold, but would fearfully concede. But I shall never inform against her! And it is evidently a prick of conscience in her that has led her to urge me to get a divorce, that she may remarry this man legally. So you perceive I shall not be likely to see her again
And you didn't really know anything of this when you saw her
I did not. Considering all things, I don't think you ought to be angry, darling
I am not. But I shan't go to the Temperance Hotel
Never mind
So that I am near you, I am comparatively happy. It is more than this earthly wretch called Me deserves -- you spirit, you disembodied creature, you dear, sweet, tantalizing phantom -- hardly flesh at all; so that when I put my arms round you I almost expect them to pass through you as through air! Forgive me for being gross, as you call it! Remember that our calling cousins when really strangers was a snare. The enmity of our parents gave a piquancy to you in my eyes that was intenser even than the novelty of ordinary new acquaintance
Say those pretty lines, then, from Shelley's 'Epipsychidion' as if they meant me
Don't you know them
I know hardly any poetry
It is you, dear; exactly like you
Now I forgive you! And you shall kiss me just once there -- not very long
You do care for me very much, don't you, in spite of my not -- you know
Yes, sweet
You'll excuse my asking, Phillotson, since everybody is talking of it: is this true as to your domestic affairs -- that your wife's going away was on no visit, but a secret elopement with a lover? If so, I condole with you
Don't
There was no secret about it
She has gone to visit friends
No
Then what has happened
She has gone away under circumstances that usually call for condolence with the husband. But I gave my consent
What I say is quite true
She asked leave to go away with her lover, and I let her. Why shouldn't I? A woman of full age, it was a question of her own conscience -- not for me. I was not her gaoler. I can't explain any further. I don't wish to be questioned
Well; it is as you said
They have requested me to send in my resignation on account of my scandalous conduct in giving my tortured wife her liberty -- or, as they call it, condoning her adultery. But I shan't resign
I think I would
I won't. It is no business of theirs. It doesn't affect me in my public capacity at all. They may expel me if they like
If you make a fuss it will get into the papers, and you'll never get appointed to another school. You see, they have to consider what you did as done by a teacher of youth -- and its effects as such upon the morals of the town; and, to ordinary opinion, your position is indefensible. You must let me say that
I don't care
I don't go unless I am turned out. And for this reason; that by resigning I acknowledge I have acted wrongly by her; when I am more and more convinced every day that in the sight of Heaven and by all natural, straightforward humanity, I have acted rightly
She doesn't care anything about me
Why should she
She doesn't know you are ill
So much the better for both of us
Where are her lover and she living
At Melchester -- I suppose; at least he was living there some time ago
I have no business here
But I heard you were ill -- very ill; and -- and as I know that you recognize other feelings between man and woman than physical love, I have come
I am not very ill, my dear friend. Only unwell
I didn't know that; and I am afraid that only a severe illness would have justified my coming
Yes... yes. And I almost wish you had not come! It is a little too soon -- that's all I mean. Still, let us make the best of it. You haven't heard about the school, I suppose
No -- what about it
Only that I am going away from here to another place. The managers and I don't agree, and we are going to part -- that's all
It is such a beautiful sunset, Richard
They are mostly beautiful from here, owing to the rays crossing the mist of the vale. But I lose them all, as they don't shine into this gloomy corner where I lie
Wouldn't you like to see this particular one? It is like heaven opened
Ah yes! But I can't
I'll help you to
No -- the bedstead can't be shifted
But see how I mean
There -- you can see the great red sun now
And I am sure it will cheer you -- I do so hope it will
You are an odd creature
The idea of your coming to see me after what has passed
Don't let us go back upon that
I have to catch the omnibus for the train, as Jude doesn't know I have come; he was out when I started; so I must return home almost directly. Richard, I am so very glad you are better. You don't hate me, do you? You have been such a kind friend to me
I am glad to know you think so
No. I don't hate you
Sue
Sue
do you wish to make it up, and stay? I'll forgive you and condone everything
Oh you can't, you can't
You can't condone it now
HE is your husband now, in effect, you mean, of course
You may assume it. He is obtaining a divorce from his wife Arabella
His wife! It is altogether news to me that he has a wife
It was a bad marriage
Like yours
Like mine. He is not doing it so much on his own account as on hers. She wrote and told him it would be a kindness to her, since then she could marry and live respectably. And Jude has agreed
A wife... A kindness to her. Ah, yes; a kindness to her to release her altogether... But I don't like the sound of it. I can forgive, Sue
No, no! You can't have me back now I have been so wicked -- as to do what I have done
I MUST go now. I'll come again -- may I
I don't ask you to go, even now. I ask you to stay
I thank you, Richard; but I must. As you are not so ill as I thought, I CANNOT stay
She's his -- his from lips to heel
She's been here since you called last
Not Mrs. Phillotson
Yes
Ah! You have made it up
No... She just came, patted my pillow with her little white hand, played the thoughtful nurse for half an hour, and went away
Well -- I'm hanged! A little hussy
What do you say
Oh -- nothing
What do you mean
I mean, what a tantalizing, capricious little woman! If she were not your wife
She is not; she's another man's except in name and law. And I have been thinking -- it was suggested to me by a conversation I had with her -- that, in kindness to her, I ought to dissolve the legal tie altogether; which, singularly enough, I think I can do, now she has been back, and refused my request to stay after I said I had forgiven her. I believe that fact would afford me opportunity of doing it, though I did not see it at the moment. What's the use of keeping her chained on to me if she doesn't belong to me? I know -- I feel absolutely certain -- that she would welcome my taking such a step as the greatest charity to her. For though as a fellow-creature she sympathizes with, and pities me, and even weeps for me, as a husband she cannot endure me -- she loathes me -- there's no use in mincing words -- she loathes me, and my only manly, and dignified, and merciful course is to complete what I have begun... And for worldly reasons, too, it will be better for her to be independent. I have hopelessly ruined my prospects because of my decision as to what was best for us, though she does not know it; I see only dire poverty ahead from my feet to the grave; for I can be accepted as teacher no more. I shall probably have enough to do to make both ends meet during the remainder of my life, now my occupation's gone; and I shall be better able to bear it alone. I may as well tell you that what has suggested my letting her go is some news she brought me -- the news that Fawley is doing the same
Oh -- he had a spouse, too? A queer couple, these lovers
Well -- I don't want your opinion on that. What I was going to say is that my liberating her can do her no possible harm, and will open up a chance of happiness for her which she has never dreamt of hitherto. For then they'll be able to marry, as they ought to have done at first
I may disagree with your motive
But I think you are right in your determination -- if you can carry it out. I doubt, however, if you can." 

Part Fifth








AT ALDBRICKHAM AND ELSEWHERE











   "Thy aerial part, and all the fiery parts which are


    mingled in thee, though by nature they have an upward


    tendency, still in obedience to the disposition of the


    universe they are over-powered here in the compound


    mass the body."-- M.  ANTONINUS (Long
Well; and what is it about
That the decree _nisi_ in the case of Phillotson _versus_ Phillotson and Fawley, pronounced six months ago, has just been made absolute
Ah
Now then, Sue, at any rate, you can do what you like
Are we -- you and I -- just as free now as if we had never married at all
Just as free -- except, I believe, that a clergyman may object personally to remarry you, and hand the job on to somebody else
But I wonder -- do you think it is really so with us? I know it is generally. But I have an uncomfortable feeling that my freedom has been obtained under false pretences
How
Well -- if the truth about us had been known, the decree wouldn't have been pronounced. It is only, is it, because we have made no defence, and have led them into a false supposition? Therefore is my freedom lawful, however proper it may be
Well -- why did you let it be under false pretences? You have only yourself to blame
Jude -- don't! You ought not to be touchy about that still. You must take me as I am
Very well, darling: so I will. Perhaps you were right. As to your question, we were not obliged to prove anything. That was their business. Anyhow we are living together
Yes. Though not in their sense
One thing is certain, that however the decree may be brought about, a marriage is dissolved when it is dissolved. There is this advantage in being poor obscure people like us -- that these things are done for us in a rough and ready fashion. It was the same with me and Arabella. I was afraid her criminal second marriage would have been discovered, and she punished; but nobody took any interest in her -- nobody inquired, nobody suspected it. If we'd been patented nobilities we should have had infinite trouble, and days and weeks would have been spent in investigations
Now we'll strut arm and arm
like any other engaged couple. We've a legal right to
Well, my dearest, the result of all this is that we can marry after a decent interval
Yes; I suppose we can
And aren't we going to
I don't like to say no, dear Jude; but I feel just the same about it now as I have done all along. I have just the same dread lest an iron contract should extinguish your tenderness for me, and mine for you, as it did between our unfortunate parents
Still, what can we do? I do love you, as you know, Sue
I know it abundantly. But I think I would much rather go on living always as lovers, as we are living now, and only meeting by day. It is so much sweeter -- for the woman at least, and when she is sure of the man. And henceforward we needn't be so particular as we have been about appearances
Our experiences of matrimony with others have not been encouraging, I own
either owing to our own dissatisfied, unpractical natures, or by our misfortune. But we two
Should be two dissatisfied ones linked together, which would be twice as bad as before... I think I should begin to be afraid of you, Jude, the moment you had contracted to cherish me under a Government stamp, and I was licensed to be loved on the premises by you -- Ugh, how horrible and sordid! Although, as you are, free, I trust you more than any other man in the world
No, no -- don't say I should change
Apart from ourselves, and our unhappy peculiarities, it is foreign to a man's nature to go on loving a person when he is told that he must and shall be that person's lover. There would be a much likelier chance of his doing it if he were told not to love. If the marriage ceremony consisted in an oath and signed contract between the parties to cease loving from that day forward, in consideration of personal possession being given, and to avoid each other's society as much as possible in public, there would be more loving couples than there are now. Fancy the secret meetings between the perjuring husband and wife, the denials of having seen each other, the clambering in at bedroom windows, and the hiding in closets! There'd be little cooling then
Yes; but admitting this, or something like it, to be true, you are not the only one in the world to see it, dear little Sue. People go on marrying because they can't resist natural forces, although many of them may know perfectly well that they are possibly buying a month's pleasure with a life's discomfort. No doubt my father and mother, and your father and mother, saw it, if they at all resembled us in habits of observation. But then they went and married just the same, because they had ordinary passions. But you, Sue, are such a phantasmal, bodiless creature, one who -- if you'll allow me to say it -- has so little animal passion in you, that you can act upon reason in the matter, when we poor unfortunate wretches of grosser substance can't
Well
you've owned that it would probably end in misery for us. And I am not so exceptional a woman as you think. Fewer women like marriage than you suppose, only they enter into it for the dignity it is assumed to confer, and the social advantages it gains them sometimes -- a dignity and an advantage that I am quite willing to do without
I really fear sometimes that you cannot
And you are so reticent. I know that women are taught by other women that they must never admit the full truth to a man. But the highest form of affection is based on full sincerity on both sides. Not being men, these women don't know that in looking back on those he has had tender relations with, a man's heart returns closest to her who was the soul of truth in her conduct. The better class of man, even if caught by airy affectations of dodging and parrying, is not retained by them. A Nemesis attends the woman who plays the game of elusiveness too often, in the utter contempt for her that, sooner or later, her old admirers feel; under which they allow her to go unlamented to her grave
I don't think I like you to-day so well as I did, Jude
Don't you? Why
Oh, well -- you are not nice -- too sermony. Though I suppose I am so bad and worthless that I deserve the utmost rigour of lecturing
No, you are not bad. You are a dear. But as slippery as an eel when I want to get a confession from you
Oh yes I am bad, and obstinate, and all sorts! It is no use your pretending I am not! People who are good don't want scolding as I do... But now that I have nobody but you, and nobody to defend me, it is very hard that I mustn't have my own way in deciding how I'll live with you, and whether I'll be married or no
Sue, my own comrade and sweetheart, I don't want to force you either to marry or to do the other thing -- of course I don't! It is too wicked of you to be so pettish! Now we won't say any more about it, and go on just the same as we have done; and during the rest of our walk we'll talk of the meadows only, and the floods, and the prospect of the farmers this coming year
Are you depressed, Sue
I have a message for you
Somebody has called
Yes. A woman
I don't know whether I did right or not
I said you were not at home, and when she said she would wait, I said I thought you might not be able to see her
Why did you say that, dear? I suppose she wanted a headstone. Was she in mourning
No. She wasn't in mourning, and she didn't want a headstone; and I thought you couldn't see her
But who was she? Didn't she say
No. She wouldn't give her name. But I know who she was -- I think I do! It was Arabella
Heaven save us! What should Arabella come for? What made you think it was she
Oh, I can hardly tell. But I know it was! I feel perfectly certain it was -- by the light in her eyes as she looked at me. She was a fleshy, coarse woman
Well -- I should not have called Arabella coarse exactly, except in speech, though she may be getting so by this time under the duties of the public house. She was rather handsome when I knew her
Handsome! But yes!-- so she is
I think I heard a quiver in your little mouth. Well, waiving that, as she is nothing to me, and virtuously married to another man, why should she come troubling us
Are you sure she's married? Have you definite news of it
No -- not definite news. But that was why she asked me to release her. She and the man both wanted to lead a proper life, as I understood
Oh Jude -- it was, it WAS Arabella
And I am so miserable! It seems such an ill omen, whatever she may have come for. You could not possibly see her, could you
I don't really think I could. It would be so very painful to talk to her now -- for her as much as for me. However, she's gone. Did she say she would come again
No. But she went away very reluctantly
There she is again
How do you know
She knocked like that last time
I'll open a window
Whoever it is cannot be expected to be let in at this time
Who's there
Is that Mr. Fawley
Is it she
Yes, dear
What do you want, Arabella
I beg your pardon, Jude, for disturbing you
But I called earlier -- I wanted particularly to see you to-night, if I could. I am in trouble, and have nobody to help me
In trouble, are you
Yes
But aren't you married
No, Jude, I am not
He wouldn't, after all. And I am in great difficulty. I hope to get another situation as barmaid soon. But it takes time, and I really am in great distress because of a sudden responsibility that's been sprung upon me from Australia; or I wouldn't trouble you -- believe me I wouldn't. I want to tell you about it
You are not really in want of money, Arabella
I have enough to pay for the night's lodging I have obtained, but barely enough to take me back again
Where are you living
In London still
I am afraid somebody may hear, so I don't like to call out particulars of myself so loud. If you could come down and walk a little way with me towards the Prince Inn, where I am staying to-night, I would explain all. You may as well, for old time's sake
Poor thing! I must do her the kindness of hearing what's the matter, I suppose
As she's going back to-morrow it can't make much difference
But you can go and see her to-morrow, Jude! Don't go now, Jude
But I shall go
Don't attempt to detain me, Sue. God knows I love her little enough now, but I don't want to be cruel to her
But she's not your wife
And I
And you are not either, dear, yet
Oh, but are you going to her? Don't! Stay at home! Please, please stay at home, Jude, and not go to her, now she's not your wife any more than I
Well, she is, rather more than you, come to that
I've wanted you to be, and I've waited with the patience of Job, and I don't see that I've got anything by my self-denial. I shall certainly give her something, and hear what it is she is so anxious to tell me; no man could do less
Oh, I knew I could trust you!-- how good you are
I can't find her anywhere in this street, and I went out in my slippers only. She has walked on, thinking I've been so hard-hearted as to refuse her requests entirely, poor woman. I've come back for my boots, as it is beginning to rain
Oh, but why should you take such trouble for a woman who has served you so badly
But, Sue, she's a woman, and I once cared for her; and one can't be a brute in such circumstances
She isn't your wife any longer
You MUSTN'T go out to find her! It isn't right! You CAN'T join her, now she's a stranger to you. How can you forget such a thing, my dear, dear one
She seems much the same as ever -- an erring, careless, unreflecting fellow-creature
What those legal fellows have been playing at in London makes no difference in my real relations to her. If she was my wife while she was away in Australia with another husband she's my wife now
But she wasn't! That's just what I hold! There's the absurdity!-- Well -- you'll come straight back, after a few minutes, won't you, dear? She is too low, too coarse for you to talk to long, Jude, and was always
Perhaps I am coarse too, worse luck! I have the germs of every human infirmity in me, I verily believe -- that was why I saw it was so preposterous of me to think of being a curate. I have cured myself of drunkenness I think; but I never know in what new form a suppressed vice will break out in me! I do love you, Sue, though I have danced attendance on you so long for such poor returns! All that's best and noblest in me loves you, and your freedom from everything that's gross has elevated me, and enabled me to do what I should never have dreamt myself capable of, or any man, a year or two ago. It is all very well to preach about self-control, and the wickedness of coercing a woman. But I should just like a few virtuous people who have condemned me in the past, about Arabella and other things, to have been in my tantalizing position with you through these late weeks!-- they'd believe, I think, that I have exercised some little restraint in always giving in to your wishes -- living here in one house, and not a soul between us
Yes, you have been good to me, Jude; I know you have, my dear protector
Well -- Arabella has appealed to me for help. I must go out and speak to her, Sue, at least
I can't say any more!-- Oh, if you must, you must
I have nobody but you, Jude, and you are deserting me! I didn't know you were like this -- I can't bear it, I can't! If she were yours it would be different
Or if you were
Very well then -- if I must I must. Since you will have it so, I agree! I will be. Only I didn't mean to! And I didn't want to marry again, either! ... But, yes -- I agree, I agree! I do love you. I ought to have known that you would conquer in the long run, living like this
I am not a cold-natured, sexless creature, am I, for keeping you at such a distance? I am sure you don't think so! Wait and see! I do belong to you, don't I? I give in
And I'll arrange for our marriage to-morrow, or as soon as ever you wish
Yes, Jude
Then I'll let her go
I do feel that it would be unfair to you to see her, and perhaps unfair to her. She is not like you, my darling, and never was: it is only bare justice to say that. Don't cry any more. There; and there; and there
Now, dear
as this is Saturday I mean to call about the banns at once, so as to get the first publishing done to-morrow, or we shall lose a week. Banns will do? We shall save a pound or two
I feel I was wickedly selfish last night
It was sheer unkindness in me -- or worse -- to treat Arabella as I did. I didn't care about her being in trouble, and what she wished to tell you! Perhaps it was really something she was justified in telling you. That's some more of my badness, I suppose! Love has its own dark morality when rivalry enters in -- at least, mine has, if other people's hasn't... I wonder how she got on? I hope she reached the inn all right, poor woman
Oh yes: she got on all right
I hope she wasn't shut out, and that she hadn't to walk the streets in the rain. Do you mind my putting on my waterproof and going to see if she got in? I've been thinking of her all the morning
Well -- is it necessary? You haven't the least idea how Arabella is able to shift for herself. Still, darling, if you want to go and inquire you can
And when you come back
I'll be ready to go about the banns. You'll come with me
The little bird is caught at last
No -- only nested
Come in and shut the door
I've just looked in to see if you got back comfortably last night, that's all
I was afraid afterwards that you might have met with any mishap
Oh -- how stupid this is! I thought my visitor was -- your friend -- your husband -- Mrs. Fawley, as I suppose you call yourself
Indeed I don't
Oh, I thought you might have, even if he's not really yours. Decency is decency, any hour of the twenty-four
I don't know what you mean
He is mine, if you come to that
He wasn't yesterday
How do you know
From your manner when you talked to me at the door. Well, my dear, you've been quick about it, and I expect my visit last night helped it on -- ha-ha! But I don't want to get him away from you
Mrs. Cartlett
I am much obliged to you for your anxiety about me
but it is not necessary you should feel it. My man finds he can't do without me after all, and agrees to stand by the promise to marry again over here that he has made me all along. See here! This is in answer to one from me
He asks me to come back. His little corner public in Lambeth would go to pieces without me, he says. But he isn't going to knock me about when he has had a drop, any more after we are spliced by English law than before! ... As for you, I should coax Jude to take me before the parson straight off, and have done with it, if I were in your place. I say it as a friend, my dear
He's waiting to, any day
Then let him, in Heaven's name. Life with a man is more businesslike after it, and money matters work better. And then, you see, if you have rows, and he turns you out of doors, you can get the law to protect you, which you can't otherwise, unless he half-runs you through with a knife, or cracks your noddle with a poker. And if he bolts away from you -- I say it friendly, as woman to woman, for there's never any knowing what a man med do -- you'll have the sticks o' furniture, and won't be looked upon as a thief. I shall marry my man over again, now he's willing, as there was a little flaw in the first ceremony. In my telegram last night which this is an answer to, I told him I had almost made it up with Jude; and that frightened him, I expect! Perhaps I should quite have done it if it hadn't been for you
and then how different our histories might have been from to-day! Never such a tender fool as Jude is if a woman seems in trouble, and coaxes him a bit! Just as he used to be about birds and things. However, as it happens, it is just as well as if I had made it up, and I forgive you. And, as I say, I'd advise you to get the business legally done as soon as possible. You'll find it an awful bother later on if you don't
I have told you he is asking me to marry him -- to make our natural marriage a legal one
It was quite by my wish that he didn't the moment I was free
Ah, yes -- you are a oneyer too, like myself
Bolted from your first, didn't you, like me
Good morning!-- I must go
And I, too, must up and off
Lord, I am only a woman -- not a six-foot sojer! ... Just a moment, dear
I really did want to consult Jude on a little matter of business, as I told him. I came about that more than anything else. Would he run up to speak to me at the station as I am going? You think not. Well, I'll write to him about it. I didn't want to write it, but never mind -- I will
Oh Jude -- I've been talking to her
I wish I hadn't! And yet it is best to be reminded of things
I hope she was civil
Yes. I -- I can't help liking her -- just a little bit! She's not an ungenerous nature; and I am so glad her difficulties have all suddenly ended
I was referring to our old question. What Arabella has been saying to me has made me feel more than ever how hopelessly vulgar an institution legal marriage is -- a sort of trap to catch a man -- I can't bear to think of it. I wish I hadn't promised to let you put up the banns this morning
Oh, don't mind me. Any time will do for me. I thought you might like to get it over quickly, now
Indeed, I don't feel any more anxious now than I did before. Perhaps with any other man I might be a little anxious; but among the very few virtues possessed by your family and mine, dear, I think I may set staunchness. So I am not a bit frightened about losing you, now I really am yours and you really are mine. In fact, I am easier in my mind than I was, for my conscience is clear about Richard, who now has a right to his freedom. I felt we were deceiving him before
Sue, you seem when you are like this to be one of the women of some grand old civilization, whom I used to read about in my bygone, wasted, classical days, rather than a denizen of a mere Christian country. I almost expect you to say at these times that you have just been talking to some friend whom you met in the Via Sacra, about the latest news of Octavia or Livia; or have been listening to Aspasia's eloquence, or have been watching Praxiteles chiselling away at his latest Venus, while Phryne made complaint that she was tired of posing
Jude
Wait a minute, would you mind
Just let us think
I had such a horrid dream one night! ... And Arabella
What did Arabella say to you
Oh, she said that when people were tied up you could get the law of a man better if he beat you -- and how when couples quarrelled... Jude, do you think that when you must have me with you by law, we shall be so happy as we are now? The men and women of our family are very generous when everything depends upon their goodwill, but they always kick against compulsion. Don't you dread the attitude that insensibly arises out of legal obligation? Don't you think it is destructive to a passion whose essence is its gratuitousness
Upon my word, love, you are beginning to frighten me, too, with all this foreboding! Well, let's go back and think it over
Yes -- so we will
Look
Well, it is satisfactory
Though, after this, it seems rather low to do likewise, and I am glad. However, she is provided for now in a way, I suppose, whatever her faults, poor thing. It is nicer that we are able to think that, than to be uneasy about her. I ought, too, to write to Richard and ask him how he is getting on, perhaps
Listen to this letter. What shall I say or do
What will you do, dear
It hits me hard
It MAY be true! I can't make it out. Certainly, if his birth was exactly when she says, he's mine. I cannot think why she didn't tell me when I met her at Christminster, and came on here that evening with her! ... Ah -- I do remember now that she said something about having a thing on her mind that she would like me to know, if ever we lived together again
The poor child seems to be wanted by nobody
What a view of life he must have, mine or not mine
I must say that, if I were better off, I should not stop for a moment to think whose he might be. I would take him and bring him up. The beggarly question of parentage -- what is it, after all? What does it matter, when you come to think of it, whether a child is yours by blood or not? All the little ones of our time are collectively the children of us adults of the time, and entitled to our general care. That excessive regard of parents for their own children, and their dislike of other people's, is, like class-feeling, patriotism, save-your-own-soul-ism, and other virtues, a mean exclusiveness at bottom
Yes -- so it is, dearest! And we'll have him here! And if he isn't yours it makes it all the better. I do hope he isn't -- though perhaps I ought not to feel quite that! If he isn't, I should like so much for us to have him as an adopted child
Well, you must assume about him what is most pleasing to you, my curious little comrade
I feel that, anyhow, I don't like to leave the unfortunate little fellow to neglect. Just think of his life in a Lambeth pothouse, and all its evil influences, with a parent who doesn't want him, and has, indeed, hardly seen him, and a stepfather who doesn't know him. 'Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night in which it was said, There is a man child conceived!' That's what the boy -- MY boy, perhaps, will find himself saying before long
Oh no
As I was the petitioner, I am really entitled to his custody, I suppose
Whether or no, we must have him. I see that. I'll do the best I can to be a mother to him, and we can afford to keep him somehow. I'll work harder. I wonder when he'll arrive
In the course of a few weeks, I suppose
I wish -- When shall we have courage to marry, Jude
Whenever you have it, I think I shall. It remains with you entirely, dear. Only say the word, and it's done
Before the boy comes
Certainly
It would make a more natural home for him, perhaps
All laughing comes from misapprehension. Rightly looked at there is no laughable thing under the sun
All right, my man. Your box is safe in the van
Yes
You are very much what I expected you to be
Going to Spring Street
Why, that's a long way from here; a'most out in the country; and the folks will be gone to bed
I've got to go there
You must have a fly for your box
No. I must walk
Oh well: you'd better leave your box here and send for it. There's a 'bus goes half-way, but you'll have to walk the rest
I am not afraid
Why didn't your friends come to meet 'ee
I suppose they didn't know I was coming
Who is your friends
Mother didn't wish me to say
All I can do, then, is to take charge of this. Now walk as fast as you can
Is this where Father lives
Who
Mr. Fawley, that's his name
What -- is it he -- so soon
What's the matter
What Arabella says is true -- true! I see you in him
Well: that's one thing in my life as it should be, at any rate
But the other half of him is -- SHE! And that's what I can't bear! But I ought to -- I'll try to get used to it; yes, I ought
Jealous little Sue! I withdraw all remarks about your sexlessness. Never mind! Time may right things... And Sue, darling; I have an idea! We'll educate and train him with a view to the university. What I couldn't accomplish in my own person perhaps I can carry out through him? They are making it easier for poor students now, you know
Oh you dreamer
Is it you who's my REAL mother at last
Why? Do I look like your father's wife
Well, yes; 'cept he seems fond of you, and you of him. Can I call you Mother
You may call me Mother, if you wish to, my poor dear
What's this round your neck
The key of my box that's at the station
He called you Mother two or three times before he dropped off
Wasn't it odd that he should have wanted to
Well -- it was significant
There's more for us to think about in that one little hungry heart than in all the stars of the sky... I suppose, dear, we must pluck up courage, and get that ceremony over? It is no use struggling against the current, and I feel myself getting intertwined with my kind. Oh Jude, you'll love me dearly, won't you, afterwards! I do want to be kind to this child, and to be a mother to him; and our adding the legal form to our marriage might make it easier for me
His face is like the tragic mask of Melpomene
What is your name, dear? Did you tell us
Little Father Time is what they always called me. It is a nickname; because I look so aged, they say
And you talk so, too
It is strange, Jude, that these preternaturally old boys almost always come from new countries. But what were you christened
I never was
Why was that
Because, if I died in damnation, 'twould save the expense of a Christian funeral
Oh -- your name is not Jude, then
Never heerd on it
Of course not
since she was hating you all the time
We'll have him christened
The day we are married
Names and Surnames of the Parties
Condition
Rank or Occupation
Dwelling at
Church or Building in which the Marriage is to be solemnized
It spoils the sentiment, doesn't it
It seems making a more sordid business of it even than signing the contract in a vestry. There is a little poetry in a church. But we'll try to get through with it, dearest, now
We will. 'For what man is he that hath betrothed a wife and hath not taken her? Let him go and return unto his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man take her.' So said the Jewish law-giver
How you know the Scriptures, Jude! You really ought to have been a parson. I can only quote profane writers
Well, I bain't set against marrying as your great-aunt was
And I hope 'twill be a jocund wedding for ye in all respects this time. Nobody can hope it more, knowing what I do of your families, which is more, I suppose, than anybody else now living. For they have been unlucky that way, God knows
They was always good-hearted people, too -- wouldn't kill a fly if they knowed it
But things happened to thwart 'em, and if everything wasn't vitty they were upset. No doubt that's how he that the tale is told of came to do what 'a did -- if he WERE one of your family
What was that
Well -- that tale, ye know; he that was gibbeted just on the brow of the hill by the Brown House -- not far from the milestone between Marygreen and Alfredston, where the other road branches off. But Lord, 'twas in my grandfather's time; and it medn' have been one of your folk at all
I know where the gibbet is said to have stood, very well
But I never heard of this. What -- did this man -- my ancestor and Sue's -- kill his wife
Twer not that exactly. She ran away from him, with their child, to her friends; and while she was there the child died. He wanted the body, to bury it where his people lay, but she wouldn't give it up. Her husband then came in the night with a cart, and broke into the house to steal the coffin away; but he was catched, and being obstinate, wouldn't tell what he broke in for. They brought it in burglary, and that's why he was hanged and gibbeted on Brown House Hill. His wife went mad after he was dead. But it medn't be true that he belonged to ye more than to me
If I was you, Mother, I wouldn't marry Father
Oh, it is only a tale
Jude, I want you to kiss me, as a lover, incorporeally
It won't be ever like this any more, will it! I wish we hadn't begun the business. But I suppose we must go on. How horrid that story was last night! It spoilt my thoughts of to-day. It makes me feel as if a tragic doom overhung our family, as it did the house of Atreus
Or the house of Jeroboam
Yes. And it seems awful temerity in us two to go marrying! I am going to vow to you in the same words I vowed in to my other husband, and you to me in the same as you used to your other wife; regardless of the deterrent lesson we were taught by those experiments
If you are uneasy I am made unhappy
I had hoped you would feel quite joyful. But if you don't, you don't. It is no use pretending. It is a dismal business to you, and that makes it so to me
It is unpleasantly like that other morning -- that's all
Let us go on now
Royal-tower'd Thame
See the couple just come in? Ha, ha! That fellow is just out of gaol this morning. She met him at the gaol gates, and brought him straight here. She's paying for everything
Jude -- I don't like it here! I wish we hadn't come! The place gives me the horrors: it seems so unnatural as the climax of our love! I wish it had been at church, if it had to be at all. It is not so vulgar there
Dear little girl
How troubled and pale you look
It must be performed here now, I suppose
No -- perhaps not necessarily
No -- we need not marry here or anywhere, unless we like, even now
We can be married in a church, if not with the same certificate with another he'll give us, I think. Anyhow, let us go out till you are calmer, dear, and I too, and talk it over
Now, darling, what shall we do? We are making a mess of it, it strikes me. Still, ANYTHING that pleases you will please me
But Jude, dearest, I am worrying you! You wanted it to be there, didn't you
Well, to tell the truth, when I got inside I felt as if I didn't care much about it. The place depressed me almost as much as it did you -- it was ugly. And then I thought of what you had said this morning as to whether we ought
It seems so weak, too, to vacillate like this! And yet how much better than to act rashly a second time... How terrible that scene was to me! The expression in that flabby woman's face, leading her on to give herself to that gaol-bird, not for a few hours, as she would, but for a lifetime, as she must. And the other poor soul -- to escape a nominal shame which was owing to the weakness of her character, degrading herself to the real shame of bondage to a tyrant who scorned her -- a man whom to avoid for ever was her only chance of salvation... This is our parish church, isn't it? This is where it would have to be, if we did it in the usual way? A service or something seems to be going on
Why -- it is a wedding here too
Everybody seems to be on our tack to-day
Let us listen
and find how it feels to us when performed in a church
It is not the same to her, poor thing, as it would be to me doing it over again with my present knowledge
You see, they are fresh to it, and take the proceedings as a matter of course. But having been awakened to its awful solemnity as we have, or at least as I have, by experience, and to my own too squeamish feelings perhaps sometimes, it really does seem immoral in me to go and undertake the same thing again with open eyes. Coming in here and seeing this has frightened me from a church wedding as much as the other did from a registry one... We are a weak, tremulous pair, Jude, and what others may feel confident in I feel doubts of -- my being proof against the sordid conditions of a business contract again
It is awful if you think we have found ourselves not strong enough for it, and knowing this, are proposing to perjure ourselves
I fancy I do think it -- since you ask me
Remember I'll do it if you wish, own darling
We are horribly sensitive; that's really what's the matter with us, Sue
I fancy more are like us than we think
Well, I don't know. The intention of the contract is good, and right for many, no doubt; but in our case it may defeat its own ends because we are the queer sort of people we are -- folk in whom domestic ties of a forced kind snuff out cordiality and spontaneousness
What a terrible line of poetry! ... though I have felt it myself about my fellow-creatures, at morbid times
Well -- the general question is not our business, and why should we plague ourselves about it? However different our reasons are we come to the same conclusion; that for us particular two, an irrevocable oath is risky. Then, Jude, let us go home without killing our dream! Yes? How good you are, my friend: you give way to all my whims
They accord very much with my own
The flowers in the bride's hand are sadly like the garland which decked the heifers of sacrifice in old times
Still, Sue, it is no worse for the woman than for the man. That's what some women fail to see, and instead of protesting against the conditions they protest against the man, the other victim; just as a woman in a crowd will abuse the man who crushes against her, when he is only the helpless transmitter of the pressure put upon him
Yes -- some are like that, instead of uniting with the man against the common enemy, coercion
No -- don't let's do it
At least just now
Well
I said to myself when I zeed ye coming so loving up to the door, 'They made up their minds at last, then
What -- and ha'n't ye really done it? Chok' it all, that I should have lived to see a good old saying like 'marry in haste and repent at leisure' spoiled like this by you two! 'Tis time I got back again to Marygreen -- sakes if tidden -- if this is what the new notions be leading us to! Nobody thought o' being afeard o' matrimony in my time, nor of much else but a cannon-ball or empty cupboard! Why when I and my poor man were married we thought no more o't than of a game o' dibs
Don't tell the child when he comes in
He'll think it has all gone on right, and it will be better that he should not be surprised and puzzled. Of course it is only put off for reconsideration. If we are happy as we are, what does it matter to anybody
Don't be in such a hurry, Cartlett. It isn't so very far to the show-yard. Let us walk down the street into the place. Perhaps I can pick up a cheap bit of furniture or old china. It is years since I was here -- never since I lived as a girl at Aldbrickham, and used to come across for a trip sometimes with my young man
You can't carry home furniture by excursion train
excellent, densely populated, gin-drinking neighbourhood
Then I'll get it sent, if I see any worth having
Sakes alive
What's that
Who do you think that couple is? Don't you recognize the man
No
Not from the photos I have showed you
Is it Fawley
Yes -- of course
Oh, well. I suppose he was inclined for a little sight-seeing like the rest of us
They are rather fond of one another and of their child, seemingly
THEIR child! 'Tisn't their child
They haven't been married long enough for it to be theirs
Oh I suppose not. She looks quite a girl
They are only lovers, or lately married, and have the child in charge, as anybody can see
How she sticks to him
Oh no -- I fancy they are not married, or they wouldn't be so much to one another as that... I wonder
But I thought you said he did marry her
I heard he was going to -- that's all, going to make another attempt, after putting it off once or twice... As far as they themselves are concerned they are the only two in the show. I should be ashamed of making myself so silly if I were he
I don't see as how there's anything remarkable in their behaviour. I should never have noticed their being in love, if you hadn't said so
You never see anything
He's charmed by her as if she were some fairy
See how he looks round at her, and lets his eyes rest on her. I am inclined to think that she don't care for him quite so much as he does for her. She's not a particular warm-hearted creature to my thinking, though she cares for him pretty middling much -- as much as she's able to; and he could make her heart ache a bit if he liked to try -- which he's too simple to do. There -- now they are going across to the cart-horse sheds. Come along
I don't want to see the cart-horses. It is no business of ours to follow these two. If we have come to see the show let us see it in our own way, as they do in theirs
Well -- suppose we agree to meet somewhere in an hour's time -- say at that refreshment tent over there, and go about independent? Then you can look at what you choose to, and so can I
I am still living down there
I am soon going to be married, but my intended couldn't come up here to-day. But there's lots of us come by excursion, though I've lost the rest of 'em for the present
Have you met Jude and his young woman, or wife, or whatever she is? I saw 'em by now
No. Not a glimpse of un for years
Well, they are close by here somewhere. Yes -- there they are -- by that grey horse
Oh, that's his present young woman -- wife did you say? Has he married again
I don't know
She's pretty, isn't she
Yes -- nothing to complain of; or jump at. Not much to depend on, though; a slim, fidgety little thing like that
He's a nice-looking chap, too! You ought to ha' stuck to un, Arabella
I don't know but I ought
That's you, Arabella! Always wanting another man than your own
Well, and what woman don't I should like to know? As for that body with him -- she don't know what love is -- at least what I call love! I can see in her face she don't
And perhaps, Abby dear, you don't know what she calls love
I'm sure I don't wish to! ... Ah -- they are making for the art department. I should like to see some pictures myself. Suppose we go that way?-- Why, if all Wessex isn't here, I verily believe! There's Dr. Vilbert. Haven't seen him for years, and he's not looking a day older than when I used to know him. How do you do, Physician? I was just saying that you don't look a day older than when you knew me as a girl
Simply the result of taking my own pills regular, ma'am. Only two and threepence a box -- warranted efficacious by the Government stamp. Now let me advise you to purchase the same immunity from the ravages of time by following my example? Only two-and-three
At the same time
you have the advantage of me, Mrs.-- Surely not Mrs. Fawley, once Miss Donn, of the vicinity of Marygreen
Yes. But Mrs. Cartlett now
Ah -- you lost him, then? Promising young fellow! A pupil of mine, you know. I taught him the dead languages. And believe me, he soon knew nearly as much as I
I lost him; but not as you think
The lawyers untied us. There he is, look, alive and lusty; along with that young woman, entering the art exhibition
Ah -- dear me! Fond of her, apparently
They SAY they are cousins
Cousinship is a great convenience to their feelings, I should say
Yes. So her husband thought, no doubt, when he divorced her... Shall we look at the pictures, too
Model of Cardinal College, Christminster; by J. Fawley and S. F. M. Bridehead
Admiring their own work
How like Jude -- always thinking of colleges and Christminster, instead of attending to his business
Silly fools -- like two children
Now
do you want anything such as this, Mrs. Cartlett? It is not compounded out of my regular pharmacopoeia, but I am sometimes asked for such a thing
A love-philtre, such as was used by the ancients with great effect. I found it out by study of their writings, and have never known it to fail
What is it made of
Well -- a distillation of the juices of doves' hearts -- otherwise pigeons'-- is one of the ingredients. It took nearly a hundred hearts to produce that small bottle full
How do you get pigeons enough
To tell a secret, I get a piece of rock-salt, of which pigeons are inordinately fond, and place it in a dovecot on my roof. In a few hours the birds come to it from all points of the compass -- east, west, north, and south -- and thus I secure as many as I require. You use the liquid by contriving that the desired man shall take about ten drops of it in his drink. But remember, all this is told you because I gather from your questions that you mean to be a purchaser. You must keep faith with me
Very well -- I don't mind a bottle -- to give some friend or other to try it on her young man
I should think you had enough of this business at home
Surely you didn't come fifty miles from your own bar to stick in another? Come, take me round the show, as other men do their wives! Dammy, one would think you were a young bachelor, with nobody to look after but yourself
But we agreed to meet here; and what could I do but wait
Well, now we have met, come along
I should like to push my face quite into them -- the dears
But I suppose it is against the rules to touch them -- isn't it, Jude
Yes, you baby
The policeman will be down on us, and I shall say it was my husband's fault
Happy
Why? Because you have come to the great Wessex Agricultural Show -- or because WE have come
You are always trying to make me confess to all sorts of absurdities. Because I am improving my mind, of course, by seeing all these steam-ploughs, and threshing-machines, and chaff-cutters, and cows, and pigs, and sheep
I feel that we have returned to Greek joyousness, and have blinded ourselves to sickness and sorrow, and have forgotten what twenty-five centuries have taught the race since their time, as one of your Christminster luminaries says... There is one immediate shadow, however -- only one
I am very, very sorry, Father and Mother
But please don't mind!-- I can't help it. I should like the flowers very very much, if I didn't keep on thinking they'd be all withered in a few days
Father
Mother
Jude
I am thinking
that I'll hold on here no longer. The life suits us, certainly; but if we could get away to a place where we are unknown, we should be lighter hearted, and have a better chance. And so I am afraid we must break it up here, however awkward for you, poor dear
Well -- I am not sorry
I am much depressed by the way they look at me here. And you have been keeping on this house and furniture entirely for me and the boy! You don't want it yourself, and the expense is unnecessary. But whatever we do, wherever we go, you won't take him away from me, Jude dear? I could not let him go now! The cloud upon his young mind makes him so pathetic to me; I do hope to lift it some day! And he loves me so. You won't take him away from me
Certainly I won't, dear little girl! We'll get nice lodgings, wherever we go. I shall be moving about probably -- getting a job here and a job there
I shall do something too, of course, till -- till -- Well, now I can't be useful in the lettering it behoves me to turn my hand to something else
Don't hurry about getting employment
I don't want you to do that. I wish you wouldn't, Sue. The boy and yourself are enough for you to attend to
Is Mr. Fawley at home? ... Biles and Willis the building contractors sent me to know if you'll undertake the relettering of the ten commandments in a little church they've been restoring lately in the country near here
It is not a very artistic job
The clergyman is a very old-fashioned chap, and he has refused to let anything more be done to the church than cleaning and repairing
Excellent old man
The Ten Commandments are fixed to the east end
and they want doing up with the rest of the wall there, since he won't have them carted off as old materials belonging to the contractor in the usual way of the trade
There, you see
One more job yet, at any rate, and you can help in it -- at least you can try. We shall have all the church to ourselves, as the rest of the work is finished
What's the matter, my dear
I couldn't stay to eat my dinner in school, because they said
She's his wife, I suppose
Some say Yes: some say No
Not? Then she ought to be, or somebody's -- that's very clear
They've only been married a very few weeks, whether or no
A strange pair to be painting the Two Tables! I wonder Biles and Willis could think of such a thing as hiring those
Well, now, it is a curious thing, but my grandfather told me a strange tale of a most immoral case that happened at the painting of the Commandments in a church out by Gaymead -- which is quite within a walk of this one. In them days Commandments were mostly done in gilt letters on a black ground, and that's how they were out where I say, before the owld church was rebuilded. It must have been somewhere about a hundred years ago that them Commandments wanted doing up just as ours do here, and they had to get men from Aldbrickham to do 'em. Now they wished to get the job finished by a particular Sunday, so the men had to work late Saturday night, against their will, for overtime was not paid then as 'tis now. There was no true religion in the country at that date, neither amongpa's ons, clerks, nor people, and to keep the men up to their work the vicar had to let 'em have plenty of drink during the afternoon. As evening drawed on they sent for some more themselves; rum, by all account. It got later and later, and they got more and more fuddled, till at last they went a-putting their rum-bottle and rummers upon the communion table, and drawed up a trestle or two, and sate round comfortable and poured out again right hearty bumpers. No sooner had they tossed off their glasses than, so the story goes they fell down senseless, one and all. How long they bode so they didn't know, but when they came to themselves there was a terrible thunder-storm a-raging, and they seemed to see in the gloom a dark figure with very thin legs and a curious voot, a-standing on the ladder, and finishing their work. When it got daylight they could see that the work was really finished, and couldn't at all mind finishing it themselves. They went home, and the next thing they heard was that a great scandal had been caused in the church that Sunday morning, for when the people came and service began, all saw that the Ten Commandments wez painted with the 'nots' left out. Decent people wouldn't attend service there for a long time, and the Bishop had to be sent for to reconsecrate the church. That's the tradition as I used to hear it as a child. You must take it for what it iswo't h, but this case to-day has reminded me o't, as I say
Never mind, comrade
I know what it is
I can't BEAR that they, and everybody, should think people wicked because they may have chosen to live their own way! It is really these opinions that make the best intentioned people reckless, and actually become immoral
Never be cast down! It was only a funny story
Ah, but we suggested it! I am afraid I have done you mischief, Jude, instead of helping you by coming
It is droll, after all
that we two, of all people, with our queer history, should happen to be here painting the Ten Commandments! You a reprobate, and I -- in my condition... O dear
That's better
Now we are right again, aren't we, little girl
Oh but it is serious, all the same
But do you see they don't think we are married? They WON'T believe it! It is extraordinary
I don't care whether they think so or not
I shan't take any more trouble to make them
Here -- I've just had a complaint about this
I don't wish to go into the matter -- as of course I didn't know what was going on -- but I am afraid I must ask you and her to leave off, and let somebody else finish this! It is best, to avoid all unpleasantness. I'll pay you for the week, all the same
How could we be so simple as to suppose we might do this
Of course we ought not -- I ought not -- to have come
I had no idea that anybody was going to intrude into such a lonely place and see us
Well, it can't be helped, dear; and of course I wouldn't wish to injure Willis's trade-connection by staying
People don't understand us
I am glad we have decided to go
The question is, where to
It ought to be to London. There one can live as one chooses
No -- not London, dear! I know it well. We should be unhappy there
Why
Can't you think
Because Arabella is there
That's the chief reason
But in the country I shall always be uneasy lest there should be some more of our late experience. And I don't care to lessen it by explaining, for one thing, all about the boy's history. To cut him off from his past I have determined to keep silence. I am sickened of ecclesiastical work now; and I shouldn't like to accept it, if offered me
You ought to have learnt classic. Gothic is barbaric art, after all. Pugin was wrong, and Wren was right. Remember the interior of Christminster Cathedral -- almost the first place in which we looked in each other's faces. Under the picturesqueness of those Norman details one can see the grotesque childishness of uncouth people trying to imitate the vanished Roman forms, remembered by dim tradition only
Yes -- you have half-converted me to that view by what you have said before. But one can work, and despise what one does. I must do something, if not church-gothic
I wish we could both follow an occupation in which personal circumstances don't count
I am as disqualified for teaching as you are for ecclesiastical art. You must fall back upon railway stations, bridges, theatres, music-halls, hotels -- everything that has no connection with conduct
I am not skilled in those... I ought to take to bread-baking. I grew up in the baking business with aunt, you know. But even a baker must be conventional, to get customers
Unless he keeps a cake and gingerbread stall at markets and fairs, where people are gloriously indifferent to everything except the quality of the goods
Now this antique oak settle -- a unique example of old English furniture, worthy the attention of all collectors
That was my great-grandfather's
I wish we could have kept the poor old thing
Now the next lot: two pairs of pigeons, all alive and plump -- a nice pie for somebody for next Sunday's dinner
Do the buyers pay before they bring away the things
Yes, I think. Why
Because, then, I've done such a wicked thing
I shall have to pay the poulterer for them, if he doesn't catch them
But never mind. Don't fret about it, dear
It was so foolish of me! Oh why should Nature's law be mutual butchery
Is it so, Mother
Yes
Well, they must take their chance, now, poor things
As soon as the sale-account is wound up, and our bills paid, we go
Where do we go to
We must sail under sealed orders, that nobody may trace us... We mustn't go to Alfredston, or to Melchester, or to Shaston, or to Christminster. Apart from those we may go anywhere
Why mustn't we go there, Father
Because of a cloud that has gathered over us; though 'we have wronged no man, corrupted no man, defrauded no man!' Though perhaps we have 'done that which was right in our own eyes
I will just find out where it is, Anny
and then I'll come back, and meet you here; and we'll go in and have something to eat and drink. I begin to feel quite a sinking
With all my heart
Though I would sooner have put up at the Chequers or The Jack. You can't get much at these temperance houses
Now, don't you give way to gluttonous desires, my child
This is the proper place. Very well: we'll meet in half an hour, unless you come with me to find out where the site of the new chapel is
I don't care to. You can tell me
Upon my -- senses
His wife Sue -- if she is so
How do you do, Mrs. Fawley
How are you, Mrs. Cartlett
What?-- you have lost
My poor husband. Yes. He died suddenly, six weeks ago, leaving me none too well off, though he was a kind husband to me. But whatever profit there is in public-house keeping goes to them that brew the liquors, and not to them that retail 'em... And you, my little old man! You don't know me, I expect
Yes, I do. You be the woman I thought wer my mother for a bit, till I found you wasn't
All right. Never mind. I am a friend
Juey
go down to the station platform with this tray -- there's another train coming in, I think
He'll never be a beauty, will he, poor chap! Does he know I am his mother really
No. He thinks there is some mystery about his parentage -- that's all. Jude is going to tell him when he is a little older
But how do you come to be doing this? I am surprised
It is only a temporary occupation -- a fancy of ours while we are in a difficulty
Then you are living with him still
Yes
Married
Of course
Any children
Two
And another coming soon, I see
Lord -- I mean goodness gracious -- what is there to cry about? Some folks would be proud enough
It is not that I am ashamed -- not as you think! But it seems such a terribly tragic thing to bring beings into the world -- so presumptuous -- that I question my right to do it sometimes
Take it easy, my dear... But you don't tell me why you do such a thing as this? Jude used to be a proud sort of chap -- above any business almost, leave alone keeping a standing
Perhaps my husband has altered a little since then. I am sure he is not proud now
I am doing this because he caught a chill early in the year while putting up some stonework of a music-hall, at Quartershot, which he had to do in the rain, the work having to be executed by a fixed day. He is better than he was; but it has been a long, weary time! We have had an old widow friend with us to help us through it; but she's leaving soon
Well, I am respectable too, thank God, and of a serious way of thinking since my loss. Why did you choose to sell gingerbreads
That's a pure accident. He was brought up to the baking business, and it occurred to him to try his hand at these, which he can make without coming out of doors. We call them Christminster cakes. They are a great success
I never saw any like 'em. Why, they are windows and towers, and pinnacles! And upon my word they are very nice
Yes. They are reminiscences of the Christminster Colleges. Traceried windows, and cloisters, you see. It was a whim of his to do them in pastry
Still harping on Christminster -- even in his cakes
Just like Jude. A ruling passion. What a queer fellow he is, and always will be
Don't you think he is? Come now; you do, though you are so fond of him
Of course Christminster is a sort of fixed vision with him, which I suppose he'll never be cured of believing in. He still thinks it a great centre of high and fearless thought, instead of what it is, a nest of commonplace schoolmasters whose characteristic is timid obsequiousness to tradition
How odd to hear a woman selling cakes talk like that
Why don't you go back to school-keeping
They won't have me
Because of the divorce, I suppose
That and other things. And there is no reason to wish it. We gave up all ambition, and were never so happy in our lives till his illness came
Where are you living
I don't care to say
Here in Kennetbridge
Here comes the boy back again
My boy and Jude's
You needn't throw that in my face
Very well -- though I half-feel as if I should like to have him with me! ... But Lord, I don't want to take him from 'ee -- ever I should sin to speak so profane -- though I should think you must have enough of your own! He's in very good hands, that I know; and I am not the woman to find fault with what the Lord has ordained. I've reached a more resigned frame of mind
Indeed! I wish I had been able to do so
You should try
I make no boast of my awakening, but I'm not what I was. After Cartlett's death I was passing the chapel in the street next ours, and went into it for shelter from a shower of rain. I felt a need of some sort of support under my loss, and, as 'twas righter than gin, I took to going there regular, and found it a great comfort. But I've left London now, you know, and at present I am living at Alfredston, with my friend Anny, to be near my own old country. I'm not come here to the fair to-day. There's to be the foundation-stone of a new chapel laid this afternoon by a popular London preacher, and I drove over with Anny. Now I must go back to meet her
No -- it is something else
I came here to-day never thinking of anybody but poor Cartlett, or of anything but spreading the Gospel by means of this new tabernacle they've begun this afternoon. But something has happened to turn my mind another way quite. Anny, I've heard of un again, and I've seen HER
Who
I've heard of Jude, and I've seen his wife. And ever since, do what I will, and though I sung the hymns wi' all my strength, I have not been able to help thinking about 'n; which I've no right to do as a chapel member
Can't ye fix your mind upon what was said by the London preacher to-day, and try to get rid of your wandering fancies that way
I do. But my wicked heart will ramble off in spite of myself
Well -- I know what it is to have a wanton mind o' my own, too! If you on'y knew what I do dream sometimes o' nights quite against my wishes, you'd say I had my struggles
What shall I do about it
You could take a lock of your late-lost husband's hair, and have it made into a mourning brooch, and look at it every hour of the day
I haven't a morsel!-- and if I had 'twould be no good... After all that's said about the comforts of this religion, I wish I had Jude back again
You must fight valiant against the feeling, since he's another's. And I've heard that another good thing for it, when it afflicts volupshious widows, is to go to your husband's grave in the dusk of evening, and stand a long while a-bowed down
Pooh! I know as well as you what I should do; only I don't do it
He's more mine than hers
What right has she to him, I should like to know! I'd take him from her if I could
Fie, Abby! And your husband only six weeks gone! Pray against it
Be damned if I do! Feelings are feelings! I won't be a creeping hypocrite any longer -- so there
I've tried that sort o' physic and have failed wi' it. I must be as I was born
Hush! You be excited, dear! Now you come along home quiet, and have a cup of tea, and don't let us talk about un no more. We won't come out this road again, as it leads to where he is, because it inflames 'ee so. You'll be all right again soon
If I don't mistake I am talking to Mr. Phillotson
Yes; my name is Phillotson
But I don't recognize you, ma'am
I remember you well enough when you used to be schoolmaster out at Marygreen, and I one of your scholars. I used to walk up there from Cresscombe every day, because we had only a mistress down at our place, and you taught better. But you wouldn't remember me as I should you?-- Arabella Donn
No
I don't recall the name. And I should hardly recognize in your present portly self the slim school child no doubt you were then
Well, I always had plenty of flesh on my bones. However, I am staying down here with some friends at present. You know, I suppose, who I married
No
Jude Fawley -- also a scholar of yours -- at least a night scholar -- for some little time I think? And known to you afterwards, if I am not mistaken
Dear me, dear me
YOU Fawley's wife? To be sure -- he had a wife! And he -- I understood
Divorced her -- as you did yours -- perhaps for better reasons
Indeed
Well -- he med have been right in doing it -- right for both; for I soon married again, and all went pretty straight till my husband died lately. But you -- you were decidedly wrong
No
I would rather not talk of this, but -- I am convinced I did only what was right, and just, and moral. I have suffered for my act and opinions, but I hold to them; though her loss was a loss to me in more ways than one
You lost your school and good income through her, did you not
I don't care to talk of it. I have recently come back here -- to Marygreen. I mean
You are keeping the school there again, just as formerly
I am there
Just as formerly, no. Merely on sufferance. It was a last resource -- a small thing to return to after my move upwards, and my long indulged hopes -- a returning to zero, with all its humiliations. But it is a refuge. I like the seclusion of the place, and the vicar having known me before my so-called eccentric conduct towards my wife had ruined my reputation as a schoolmaster, he accepted my services when all other schools were closed against me. However, although I take fifty pounds a year here after taking above two hundred elsewhere, I prefer it to running the risk of having my old domestic experiences raked up against me, as I should do if I tried to make a move
Right you are. A contented mind is a continual feast. She has done no better
She is not doing well, you mean
I met her by accident at Kennetbridge this very day, and she is anything but thriving. Her husband is ill, and she anxious. You made a fool of a mistake about her, I tell 'ee again, and the harm you did yourself by dirting your own nest serves you right, excusing the liberty
How
She was innocent
But nonsense! They did not even defend the case
That was because they didn't care to. She was quite innocent of what obtained you your freedom, at the time you obtained it. I saw her just afterwards, and proved it to myself completely by talking to her
Still -- she wanted to go
Yes. But you shouldn't have let her. That's the only way with these fanciful women that chaw high -- innocent or guilty. She'd have come round in time. We all do! Custom does it! It's all the same in the end! However, I think she's fond of her man still -- whatever he med be of her. You were too quick about her. _I_ shouldn't have let her go! I should have kept her chained on -- her spirit for kicking would have been broke soon enough! There's nothing like bondage and a stone-deaf taskmaster for taming us women. Besides, you've got the laws on your side. Moses knew. Don't you call to mind what he says
Not for the moment, ma'am, I regret to say
Call yourself a schoolmaster! I used to think o't when they read it in church, and I was carrying on a bit. 'Then shall the man be guiltless; but the woman shall bear her iniquity.' Damn rough on us women; but we must grin and put up wi' it! Haw haw! Well; she's got her deserts now
Yes
Cruelty is the law pervading all nature and society; and we can't get out of it if we would
Well -- don't you forget to try it next time, old man
I cannot answer you, madam. I have never known much of womankind
How is he now
Still better
Before you are upstairs again your husband will be well enough -- don't 'ee trouble
What -- you have sold them all
Yes. Arcades, gables, east windows and all
What -- is she living here
No; at Alfredston
I thought I had better tell you
Yes... Dear me! Arabella not in the depths of London, but down here! It is only a little over a dozen miles across the country to Alfredston. What is she doing there
She has taken to chapel-going
and talks accordingly
Well
perhaps it is for the best that we have almost decided to move on. I feel much better to-day, and shall be well enough to leave in a week or two. Then Mrs. Edlin can go home again -- dear faithful old soul -- the only friend we have in the world
Where do you think to go to
Why should you care so much for Christminster
Christminster cares nothing for you, poor dear
Well, I do, I can't help it. I love the place -- although I know how it hates all men like me -- the so-called self-taught -- how it scorns our laboured acquisitions, when it should be the first to respect them; how it sneers at our false quantities and mispronunciations, when it should say, I see you want help, my poor friend! ... Nevertheless, it is the centre of the universe to me, because of my early dream: and nothing can alter it. Perhaps it will soon wake up, and be generous. I pray so! ... I should like to go back to live there -- perhaps to die there! In two or three weeks I might, I think. It will then be June, and I should like to be there by a particular day
The place seems gay
Why -- it is Remembrance Day!-- Jude -- how sly of you -- you came to-day on purpose
Yes
I thought we might as well come to-day as on any other
But I am afraid it will depress you
Oh, I mustn't let it interfere with our business; and we have a good deal to do before we shall be settled here. The first thing is lodgings
Let us go and see the procession, and never mind the lodgings just now? We can get them afterwards
Oughtn't we to get a house over our heads first
My failure is reflected on me by every one of those young fellows
A lesson on presumption is awaiting me to-day!-- Humiliation Day for me! ... If you, my dear darling, hadn't come to my rescue, I should have gone to the dogs with despair
It would have been better if we had gone at once about our own affairs, dear
I am sure this sight will awaken old sorrows in you, and do no good
Well -- we are near; we will see it now
Here is the place -- they are just going to pass
It do seem like the Judgment Day
They are only learned doctors
They won't be long now
Why, I know that man; he used to work here years ago -- Jude Fawley, that's his name! Don't you mind he used to be nicknamed Tutor of St. Slums, d'ye mind?-- because he aimed at that line o' business? He's married, I suppose, then, and that's his child he's carrying. Taylor would know him, as he knows everybody
You've honoured us by coming back again, my friend
An' you don't seem to have done any great things for yourself by going away
Except found more mouths to fill
But Fortune didn't lie that way
Yer powers wasn't enough to carry 'ee through
Don't answer them any more
I don't think I like Christminster
However it was my poverty and not my will that consented to be beaten. It takes two or three generations to do what I tried to do in one; and my impulses -- affections -- vices perhaps they should be called -- were too strong not to hamper a man without advantages; who should be as cold-blooded as a fish and as selfish as a pig to have a really good chance of being one of his country's worthies. You may ridicule me -- I am quite willing that you should -- I am a fit subject, no doubt. But I think if you knew what I have gone through these last few years you would rather pity me. And if they knew
it is just possible they would do the same
He do look ill and worn-out, it is true
I may do some good before I am dead -- be a sort of success as a frightful example of what not to do; and so illustrate a moral story
I was, perhaps, after all, a paltry victim to the spirit of mental and social restlessness that makes so many unhappy in these days
Don't tell them that
You weren't that. You struggled nobly to acquire knowledge, and only the meanest souls in the world would blame you
And what I appear, a sick and poor man, is not the worst of me. I am in a chaos of principles -- groping in the dark -- acting by instinct and not after example. Eight or nine years ago when I came here first, I had a neat stock of fixed opinions, but they dropped away one by one; and the further I get the less sure I am. I doubt if I have anything more for my present rule of life than following inclinations which do me and nobody else any harm, and actually give pleasure to those I love best. There, gentlemen, since you wanted to know how I was getting on, I have told you. Much good may it do you! I cannot explain further here. I perceive there is something wrong somewhere in our social formulas: what it is can only be discovered by men or women with greater insight than mine -- if, indeed, they ever discover it -- at least in our time. 'For who knoweth what is good for man in this life?-- and who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun
Hear, hear
Well preached
Why, one of them jobbing pa'sons swarming about here, that takes the services when our head reverends want a holiday, wouldn't ha' discoursed such doctrine for less than a guinea down? Hey? I'll take my oath not one o' 'em would! And then he must have had it wrote down for 'n. And this only a working-man
If that can be done
at college gates in the most religious and educational city in the world, what shall we say as to how far we've got
Order
Keep yer tongue quiet, my man, while the procession passes
Let us go on, dear
We haven't any lodgings yet, remember, and all our things are at the station; and you are by no means well yet. I am afraid this wet will hurt you
They are coming now. Just a moment, and I'll go
Let's go that way
I wish I could get in
Listen -- I may catch a few words of the Latin speech by staying here; the windows are open
Well -- I'm an outsider to the end of my days
Now I'll go, my patient Sue. How good of you to wait in the rain all this time -- to gratify my infatuation! I'll never care any more about the infernal cursed place, upon my soul I won't! But what made you tremble so when we were at the barrier? And how pale you are, Sue
I saw Richard amongst the people on the other side
Ah -- did you
He is evidently come up to Jerusalem to see the festival like the rest of us: and on that account is probably living not so very far away. He had the same hankering for the university that you had, in a milder form. I don't think he saw me, though he must have heard you speaking to the crowd. But he seemed not to notice
Well -- suppose he did. Your mind is free from worries about him now, my Sue
Yes, I suppose so. But I am weak. Although I know it is all right with our plans, I felt a curious dread of him; an awe, or terror, of conventions I don't believe in. It comes over me at times like a sort of creeping paralysis, and makes me so sad
You are getting tired, Sue. Oh -- I forgot, darling! Yes, we'll go on at once
Ah -- listen
What
Why the bells -- what church can that be? The tones are familiar
I don't know
Did you knock to ask that
No; for lodgings
We haven't any to let
Now, Jude
let me try. You don't know the way
I don't like Christminster
Are the great old houses gaols
No; colleges
which perhaps you'll study in some day
I'd rather not
Now we'll try again
I'll pull my cloak more round me... Leaving Kennetbridge for this place is like coming from Caiaphas to Pilate! ... How do I look now, dear
Nobody would notice it now
Are you really a married woman
Now who wants such a woman here? and perhaps a confinement! ... Besides, didn't I say I wouldn't have children? The hall and stairs fresh painted, to be kicked about by them! You must have known all was not straight with 'em -- coming like that. Taking in a family when I said a single man
I am sorry to tell you, ma'am
that I can't let you have the room for the week after all. My husband objects; and therefore I must ask you to go. I don't mind your staying over to-night, as it is getting late in the afternoon; but I shall be glad if you can leave early in the morning
I ought not to be born, ought I
Mother, WHAT shall we do to-morrow
I don't know
I am afraid this will trouble your father
I wish Father was quite well, and there had been room for him! Then it wouldn't matter so much! Poor Father
It wouldn't
Can I do anything
No! All is trouble, adversity, and suffering
Father went away to give us children room, didn't he
Partly
It would be better to be out o' the world than in it, wouldn't it
It would almost, dear
'Tis because of us children, too, isn't it, that you can't get a good lodging
Well -- people do object to children sometimes
Then if children make so much trouble, why do people have 'em
Oh -- because it is a law of nature
But we don't ask to be born
No indeed
And what makes it worse with me is that you are not my real mother, and you needn't have had me unless you liked. I oughtn't to have come to 'ee -- that's the real truth! I troubled 'em in Australia, and I trouble folk here. I wish I hadn't been born
You couldn't help it, my dear
I think that whenever children be born that are not wanted they should be killed directly, before their souls come to 'em, and not allowed to grow big and walk about
There is going to be another in our family soon
How
There is going to be another baby
What
Oh God, Mother, you've never a-sent for another; and such trouble with what you've got
Yes, I have, I am sorry to say
Oh you don't care, you don't care
How EVER could you, Mother, be so wicked and cruel as this, when you needn't have done it till we was better off, and Father well! To bring us all into MORE trouble! No room for us, and Father a-forced to go away, and we turned out to-morrow; and yet you be going to have another of us soon! ... 'Tis done o' purpose!--'tis --'tis
Y-you must forgive me, little Jude
I can't explain -- I will when you are older. It does seem -- as if I had done it on purpose, now we are in these difficulties! I can't explain, dear! But it -- is not quite on purpose -- I can't help it
Yes it is -- it must be! For nobody would interfere with us, like that, unless you agreed! I won't forgive you, ever, ever! I'll never believe you care for me, or Father, or any of us any more
If we children was gone there'd be no trouble at all
Don't think that, dear
But go to sleep
You must all come to this inn for a day or two
It is a rough place, and it will not be so nice for the children, but we shall have more time to look round. There are plenty of lodgings in the suburbs -- in my old quarter of Beersheba. Have breakfast with me now you are here, my bird. You are sure you are well? There will be plenty of time to get back and prepare the children's meal before they wake. In fact, I'll go with you
No
It was in his nature to do it. The doctor says there are such boys springing up amongst us -- boys of a sort unknown in the last generation -- the outcome of new views of life. They seem to see all its terrors before they are old enough to have staying power to resist them. He says it is the beginning of the coming universal wish not to live. He's an advanced man, the doctor: but he can give no consolation to
What is it
The organ of the college chapel. The organist practising I suppose. It's the anthem from the seventy-third Psalm; 'Truly God is loving unto Israel
Oh, oh my babies! They had done no harm! Why should they have been taken away, and not I
They are talking about us, no doubt
We are made a spectacle unto the world, and to angels, and to men
No -- they are not talking of us
They are two clergymen of different views, arguing about the eastward position. Good God -- the eastward position, and all creation groaning
There is something external to us which says, 'You shan't!' First it said, 'You shan't learn!' Then it said, 'You shan't labour!' Now it says, 'You shan't love
That's bitter of you, darling
But it's true
Why don't you speak to me, Jude
Don't turn away from me! I can't BEAR the loneliness of being out of your looks
There, dear; here I am
Yes... Oh, my comrade, our perfect union -- our two-in-oneness -- is now stained with blood
Shadowed by death -- that's all
Ah; but it was I who incited him really, though I didn't know I was doing it! I talked to the child as one should only talk to people of mature age. I said the world was against us, that it was better to be out of life than in it at this price; and he took it literally. And I told him I was going to have another child. It upset him. Oh how bitterly he upbraided me
Why did you do it, Sue
I can't tell. It was that I wanted to be truthful. I couldn't bear deceiving him as to the facts of life. And yet I wasn't truthful, for with a false delicacy I told him too obscurely.-- Why was I half-wiser than my fellow-women? And not entirely wiser! Why didn't I tell him pleasant untruths, instead of half-realities? It was my want of self-control, so that I could neither conceal things nor reveal them
Your plan might have been a good one for the majority of cases; only in our peculiar case it chanced to work badly perhaps. He must have known sooner or later
And I was just making my baby darling a new frock; and now I shall never see him in it, and never talk to him any more! ... My eyes are so swollen that I can scarcely see; and yet little more than a year ago I called myself happy! We went about loving each other too much -- indulging ourselves to utter selfishness with each other! We said -- do you remember?-- that we would make a virtue of joy. I said it was Nature's intention, Nature's law and _raisond'etre _ that we should be joyful in what instincts she afforded us -- instincts which civilization had taken upon itself to thwart. What dreadful things I said! And now Fate has given us this stab in the back for being such fools as to take Nature at her word
It is best, perhaps, that they should be gone.-- Yes -- I see it is! Better that they should be plucked fresh than stay to wither away miserably
Yes
Some say that the elders should rejoice when their children die in infancy
But they don't know! ... Oh my babies, my babies, could you be alive now! You may say the boy wished to be out of life, or he wouldn't have done it. It was not unreasonable for him to die: it was part of his incurably sad nature, poor little fellow! But then the others -- my OWN children and yours
I am a pitiable creature
good neither for earth nor heaven any more! I am driven out of my mind by things! What ought to be done
Nothing can be done
Things are as they are, and will be brought to their destined issue
Yes! Who said that
It comes in the chorus of the _Agamemnon_. It has been in my mind continually since this happened
My poor Jude -- how you've missed everything!-- you more than I, for I did get you! To think you should know that by your unassisted reading, and yet be in poverty and despair
He's filling them in, and he shan't till I've seen my little ones again
I want to see them once more. Oh Jude -- please Jude -- I want to see them! I didn't know you would let them be taken away while I was asleep! You said perhaps I should see them once more before they were screwed down; and then you didn't, but took them away! Oh Jude, you are cruel to me too
She's been wanting me to dig out the grave again, and let her get to the coffins
She ought to be took home, by the look o' her. She is hardly responsible, poor thing, seemingly. Can't dig 'em up again now, ma'am. Do ye go home with your husband, and take it quiet, and thank God that there'll be another soon to swage yer grief
Can't I see them once more -- just once! Can't I? Only just one little minute, Jude? It would not take long! And I should be so glad, Jude! I will be so good, and not disobey you ever any more, Jude, if you will let me? I would go home quietly afterwards, and not want to see them any more! Can't I? Why can't I
We must conform
All the ancient wrath of the Power above us has been vented upon us, His poor creatures, and we must submit. There is no choice. We must. It is no use fighting against God
It is only against man and senseless circumstance
True
What have I been thinking of! I am getting as superstitious as a savage! ... But whoever or whatever our foe may be, I am cowed into submission. I have no more fighting strength left; no more enterprise. I am beaten, beaten! ... 'We are made a spectacle unto the world, and to angels, and to men!' I am always saying that now
I feel the same
What shall we do? You are in work now; but remember, it may only be because our history and relations are not absolutely known... Possibly, if they knew our marriage had not been formalized they would turn you out of your job as they did at Aldbrickham
I hardly know. Perhaps they would hardly do that. However, I think that we ought to make it legal now -- as soon as you are able to go out
You think we ought
Certainly
I have seemed to myself lately
to belong to that vast band of men shunned by the virtuous -- the men called seducers. It amazes me when I think of it! I have not been conscious of it, or of any wrongdoing towards you, whom I love more than myself. Yet I am one of those men! I wonder if any other of them are the same purblind, simple creatures as I? ... Yes, Sue -- that's what I am. I seduced you... You were a distinct type -- a refined creature, intended by Nature to be left intact. But I couldn't leave you alone
No, no, Jude
Don't reproach yourself with being what you are not. If anybody is to blame it is I
I supported you in your resolve to leave Phillotson; and without me perhaps you wouldn't have urged him to let you go
I should have, just the same. As to ourselves, the fact of our not having entered into a legal contract is the saving feature in our union. We have thereby avoided insulting, as it were, the solemnity of our first marriages
Solemnity
Yes
I have had dreadful fears, a dreadful sense of my own insolence of action. I have thought -- that I am still his wife
Whose
Richard's
Good God, dearest!-- why
Oh I can't explain! Only the thought comes to me
It is your weakness -- a sick fancy, without reason or meaning! Don't let it trouble you
What are you thinking of, little woman
Oh I can't tell clearly! I have thought that we have been selfish, careless, even impious, in our courses, you and I. Our life has been a vain attempt at self-delight. But self-abnegation is the higher road. We should mortify the flesh -- the terrible flesh -- the curse of Adam
Sue
What has come over you
We ought to be continually sacrificing ourselves on the altar of duty! But I have always striven to do what has pleased me. I well deserved the scourging I have got! I wish something would take the evil right out of me, and all my monstrous errors, and all my sinful ways
Sue -- my own too suffering dear!-- there's no evil woman in you. Your natural instincts are perfectly healthy; not quite so impassioned, perhaps, as I could wish; but good, and dear, and pure. And as I have often said, you are absolutely the most ethereal, least sensual woman I ever knew to exist without inhuman sexlessness. Why do you talk in such a changed way? We have not been selfish, except when no one could profit by our being otherwise. You used to say that human nature was noble and long-suffering, not vile and corrupt, and at last I thought you spoke truly. And now you seem to take such a much lower view
I want a humble heart; and a chastened mind; and I have never had them yet
You have been fearless, both as a thinker and as a feeler, and you deserved more admiration than I gave. I was too full of narrow dogmas at that time to see it
Don't say that, Jude! I wish my every fearless word and thought could be rooted out of my history. Self-renunciation -- that's everything! I cannot humiliate myself too much. I should like to prick myself all over with pins and bleed out the badness that's in me
Hush
It is bereavement that has brought you to this! Such remorse is not for you, my sensitive plant, but for the wicked ones of the earth -- who never feel it
I ought not to stay like this
Why not
It is indulgence
Still on the same tack! But is there anything better on earth than that we should love one another
Yes. It depends on the sort of love; and yours -- ours -- is the wrong
I won't have it, Sue! Come, when do you wish our marriage to be signed in a vestry
Never
There is a strange, indescribable perfume or atmosphere about you to-night, Sue
I mean not only mentally, but about your clothes, also. A sort of vegetable scent, which I seem to know, yet cannot remember
It is incense
Incense
I have been to the service at St. Silas', and I was in the fumes of it
Oh -- St. Silas
Yes. I go there sometimes
Indeed. You go there
You see, Jude, it is lonely here in the weekday mornings, when you are at work, and I think and think of -- of my
And I have taken to go in there, as it is so near
Oh well -- of course, I say nothing against it. Only it is odd, for you. They little think what sort of chiel is amang them
What do you mean, Jude
Well -- a sceptic, to be plain
How can you pain me so, dear Jude, in my trouble! Yet I know you didn't mean it. But you ought not to say that
I won't. But I am much surprised
Well -- I want to tell you something else, Jude. You won't be angry, will you? I have thought of it a good deal since my babies died. I don't think I ought to be your wife -- or as your wife -- any longer
What? ... But you ARE
From your point of view; but
Of course we were afraid of the ceremony, and a good many others would have been in our places, with such strong reasons for fears. But experience has proved how we misjudged ourselves, and overrated our infirmities; and if you are beginning to respect rites and ceremonies, as you seem to be, I wonder you don't say it shall be carried out instantly? You certainly ARE my wife, Sue, in all but law. What do you mean by what you said
I don't think I am
Not? But suppose we HAD gone through the ceremony? Would you feel that you were then
No. I should not feel even then that I was. I should feel worse than I do now
Why so -- in the name of all that's perverse, my dear
Because I am Richard's
Ah -- you hinted that absurd fancy to me before
It was only an impression with me then; I feel more and more convinced as time goes on that -- I belong to him, or to nobody
My good heavens -- how we are changing places
Yes. Perhaps so
Is Mr. Fawley here
I have just come from the cemetery
I inquired and found the child's grave. I couldn't come to the funeral -- thank you for inviting me all the same. I read all about it in the papers, and I felt I wasn't wanted... No -- I couldn't come to the funeral
But I am glad I found the grave. As 'tis your trade, Jude, you'll be able to put up a handsome stone to 'em
I shall put up a headstone
He was my child, and naturally I feel for him
I hope so. We all did
The others that weren't mine I didn't feel so much for, as was natural
Of course
I had often wished I had mine with me
Perhaps 'twouldn't have happened then! But of course I didn't wish to take him away from your wife
I am not his wife
Oh, I beg your pardon, I'm sure
I thought you were
She said she was not your wife
Why should she do that
I cannot inform you
She is, isn't she? She once told me so
I don't criticize what she says
Ah -- I see! Well, my time is up. I am staying here to-night, and thought I could do no less than call, after our mutual affliction. I am sleeping at the place where I used to be barmaid, and to-morrow I go back to Alfredston. Father is come home again, and I am living with him
He has returned from Australia
Yes. Couldn't get on there. Had a rough time of it. Mother died of dys -- what do you call it -- in the hot weather, and Father and two of the young ones have just got back. He has got a cottage near the old place, and for the present I am keeping house for him
Surely not at this time o' night
It is shut
She knows somebody who keeps the key, and she has it whenever she wants it
How long has she been going on with this
Oh, some few weeks, I think
Sue
What -- do you want with me here, Jude
You shouldn't come! I wanted to be alone! Why did you intrude here
How can you ask
Why do I come? Who has a right to come, I should like to know, if I have not! I, who love you better than my own self -- better -- far better -- than you have loved me! What made you leave me to come here alone
Don't criticize me, Jude -- I can't bear it!-- I have often told you so. You must take me as I am. I am a wretch -- broken by my distractions! I couldn't BEAR it when Arabella came -- I felt so utterly miserable I had to come away. She seems to be your wife still, and Richard to be my husband
But they are nothing to us
Yes, dear friend, they are. I see marriage differently now. My babies have been taken from me to show me this! Arabella's child killing mine was a judgement -- the right slaying the wrong. What, WHAT shall I do! I am such a vile creature -- too worthless to mix with ordinary human beings
This is terrible
It is monstrous and unnatural for you to be so remorseful when you have done no wrong
Ah -- you don't know my badness
I do! Every atom and dreg of it! You make me hate Christianity, or mysticism, or Sacerdotalism, or whatever it may be called, if it's that which has caused this deterioration in you. That a woman-poet, a woman-seer, a woman whose soul shone like a diamond -- whom all the wise of the world would have been proud of, if they could have known you -- should degrade herself like this! I am glad I had nothing to do with Divinity -- damn glad -- if it's going to ruin you in this way
You are angry, Jude, and unkind to me, and don't see how things are
Then come along home with me, dearest, and perhaps I shall. I am overburdened -- and you, too, are unhinged just now
I don't dislike you, Jude
I love you as much as ever! Only -- I ought not to love you -- any more. Oh I must not any more
I can't own it
But I have made up my mind that I am not your wife! I belong to him -- I sacramentally joined myself to him for life. Nothing can alter it
But surely we are man and wife, if ever two people were in this world? Nature's own marriage it is, unquestionably
But not Heaven's. Another was made for me there, and ratified eternally in the church at Melchester
Sue, Sue -- affliction has brought you to this unreasonable state! After converting me to your views on so many things, to find you suddenly turn to the right-about like this -- for no reason whatever, confounding all you have formerly said through sentiment merely! You root out of me what little affection and reverence I had left in me for the Church as an old acquaintance... What I can't understand in you is your extraordinary blindness now to your old logic. Is it peculiar to you, or is it common to woman? Is a woman a thinking unit at all, or a fraction always wanting its integer? How you argued that marriage was only a clumsy contract -- which it is -- how you showed all the objections to it -- all the absurdities! If two and two made four when we were happy together, surely they make four now? I can't understand it, I repeat
Ah, dear Jude; that's because you are like a totally deaf man observing people listening to music. You say 'What are they regarding? Nothing is there.' But something is
That is a hard saying from you; and not a true parallel! You threw off old husks of prejudices, and taught me to do it; and now you go back upon yourself. I confess I am utterly stultified in my estimate of you
Dear friend, my only friend, don't be hard with me! I can't help being as I am, I am convinced I am right -- that I see the light at last. But oh, how to profit by it
Can this be the girl
can this be the girl who brought the pagan deities into this most Christian city?-- who mimicked Miss Fontover when she crushed them with her heel?-- quoted Gibbon, and Shelley, and Mill? Where are dear Apollo, and dear Venus now
Oh don't, don't be so cruel to me, Jude, and I so unhappy
I can't bear it! I was in error -- I cannot reason with you. I was wrong -- proud in my own conceit! Arabella's coming was the finish. Don't satirize me: it cuts like a knife
Jude
would you mind getting a lodging here
I will -- if, if you really wish? But do you? Let me go to our door and understand you
Good-night
But Sue! Don't we live here
You said you would do as I wished
Yes. Very well! ... Perhaps it was wrong of me to argue distastefully as I have done! Perhaps as we couldn't conscientiously marry at first in the old-fashioned way, we ought to have parted. Perhaps the world is not illuminated enough for such experiments as ours! Who were we, to think we could act as pioneers
I am so glad you see that much, at any rate. I never deliberately meant to do as I did. I slipped into my false position through jealousy and agitation
But surely through love -- you loved me
Yes. But I wanted to let it stop there, and go on always as mere lovers; until
But people in love couldn't live for ever like that
Women could: men can't, because they -- won't. An average woman is in this superior to an average man -- that she never instigates, only responds. We ought to have lived in mental communion, and no more
I was the unhappy cause of the change, as I have said before! ... Well, as you will! ... But human nature can't help being itself
Oh yes -- that's just what it has to learn -- self-mastery
I repeat -- if either were to blame it was not you but I
No -- it was I. Your wickedness was only the natural man's desire to possess the woman. Mine was not the reciprocal wish till envy stimulated me to oust Arabella. I had thought I ought in charity to let you approach me -- that it was damnably selfish to torture you as I did my other friend. But I shouldn't have given way if you hadn't broken me down by making me fear you would go back to her... But don't let us say any more about it! Jude, will you leave me to myself now
Yes... But Sue -- my wife, as you are
my old reproach to you was, after all, a true one. You have never loved me as I love you -- never -- never! Yours is not a passionate heart -- your heart does not burn in a flame! You are, upon the whole, a sort of fay, or sprite -- not a woman
At first I did not love you, Jude; that I own. When I first knew you I merely wanted you to love me. I did not exactly flirt with you; but that inborn craving which undermines some women's morals almost more than unbridled passion -- the craving to attract and captivate, regardless of the injury it may do the man -- was in me; and when I found I had caught you, I was frightened. And then -- I don't know how it was -- I couldn't bear to let you go -- possibly to Arabella again -- and so I got to love you, Jude. But you see, however fondly it ended, it began in the selfish and cruel wish to make your heart ache for me without letting mine ache for you
And now you add to your cruelty by leaving me
Ah -- yes! The further I flounder, the more harm I do
O Sue
Do not do an immoral thing for moral reasons! You have been my social salvation. Stay with me for humanity's sake! You know what a weak fellow I am. My two arch-enemies you know -- my weakness for womankind and my impulse to strong liquor. Don't abandon me to them, Sue, to save your own soul only! They have been kept entirely at a distance since you became my guardian-angel! Since I have had you I have been able to go into any temptations of the sort, without risk. Isn't my safety worth a little sacrifice of dogmatic principle? I am in terror lest, if you leave me, it will be with me another case of the pig that was washed turning back to his wallowing in the mire
Oh, but you must not, Jude! You won't! I'll pray for you night and day
Well -- never mind; don't grieve
I did suffer, God knows, about you at that time; and now I suffer again. But perhaps not so much as you. The woman mostly gets the worst of it in the long run
She does
Unless she is absolutely worthless and contemptible. And this one is not that, anyhow
She is -- I fear! ... Now Jude -- good-night,-- please
I mustn't stay?-- Not just once more? As it has been so many times -- O Sue, my wife, why not
No -- no -- not wife! ... I am in your hands, Jude -- don't tempt me back now I have advanced so far
Very well. I do your bidding. I owe that to you, darling, in penance for how I overruled it at the first time. My God, how selfish I was! Perhaps -- perhaps I spoilt one of the highest and purest loves that ever existed between man and woman! ... Then let the veil of our temple be rent in two from this hour
You don't see that it is a matter of conscience with me, and not of dislike to you
Dislike to you! But I can't say any more -- it breaks my heart -- it will be undoing all I have begun! Jude -- good-night
Good-night
Oh but you shall kiss me
I can't -- bear
Good-bye, good-bye
We'll be dear friends just the same, Jude, won't we? And we'll see each other sometimes -- yes!-- and forget all this, and try to be as we were long ago
What are you thinking of
The university degree you never obtained
No, no
Of somebody I saw to-day
Susanna
I saw her, too
You said nothing
I didn't wish to draw your attention to her. But, as you did see her, you should have said: 'How d'ye do, my dear-that-was
Ah, well. I might have. But what do you think of this: I have good reason for supposing that she was innocent when I divorced her -- that I was all wrong. Yes, indeed! Awkward, isn't it
She has taken care to set you right since, anyhow, apparently
H'm. That's a cheap sneer. I ought to have waited, unquestionably
Their cup of sorrow is now full
You like walking out this way, Mrs. Cartlett
I've just begun to again
It is where I lived as maid and wife, and all the past things of my life that are interesting to my feelings are mixed up with this road. And they have been stirred up in me too, lately; for I've been visiting at Christminster. Yes; I've seen Jude
Ah! How do they bear their terrible affliction
In a ve-ry strange way -- ve-ry strange! She don't live with him any longer. I only heard of it as a certainty just before I left; though I had thought things were drifting that way from their manner when I called on them
Not live with her husband? Why, I should have thought 'twould have united them more
He's not her husband, after all. She has never really married him although they have passed as man and wife so long. And now, instead of this sad event making 'em hurry up, and get the thing done legally, she's took in a queer religious way, just as I was in my affliction at losing Cartlett, only hers is of a more 'sterical sort than mine. And she says, so I was told, that she's your wife in the eye of Heaven and the Church -- yours only; and can't be anybody else's by any act of man
Ah -- indeed? ... Separated, have they
You see, the eldest boy was mine
Oh -- yours
Yes, poor little fellow -- born in lawful wedlock, thank God. And perhaps she feels, over and above other things, that I ought to have been in her place. I can't say. However, as for me, I am soon off from here. I've got Father to look after now, and we can't live in such a hum-drum place as this. I hope soon to be in a bar again at Christminster, or some other big town
What is, or was, their address
Thank you. Good afternoon
But they won't -- Sue won't
Gillingham is so matter of fact. She's affected by Christminster sentiment and teaching. I can see her views on the indissolubility of marriage well enough, and I know where she got them. They are not mine; but I shall make use of them to further mine
I know I am entirely wrong, but I don't agree with you. As to her having lived with and had three children by him, my feeling is (though I can advance no logical or moral defence of it, on the old lines) that it has done little more than finish her education. I shall write to her, and learn whether what that woman said is true or no
Will you come out with me? I would rather not come in. I want to -- to talk with you -- and to go with you to the cemetery
It is dreary for you to be out
But if you prefer not to come in, I don't mind
Yes -- I do. I shall not keep you long
I want to tell you
so that you may not hear of it by chance. I am going back to Richard. He has -- so magnanimously -- agreed to forgive all
Going back? How can you go
He is going to marry me again. That is for form's sake, and to satisfy the world, which does not see things as they are. But of course I AM his wife already. Nothing has changed that
But you are MY wife! Yes, you are. You know it. I have always regretted that feint of ours in going away and pretending to come back legally married, to save appearances. I loved you, and you loved me; and we closed with each other; and that made the marriage. We still love -- you as well as I -- KNOW it, Sue! Therefore our marriage is not cancelled
Yes; I know how you see it
But I am going to marry him again, as it would be called by you. Strictly speaking you, too -- don't mind my saying it, Jude!-- you should take back -- Arabella
I should? Good God -- what next! But how if you and I had married legally, as we were on the point of doing
I should have felt just the same -- that ours was not a marriage. And I would go back to Richard without repeating the sacrament, if he asked me. But 'the world and its ways have a certain worth' (I suppose): therefore I concede a repetition of the ceremony... Don't crush all the life out of me by satire and argument, I implore you! I was strongest once, I know, and perhaps I treated you cruelly. But Jude, return good for evil! I am the weaker now. Don't retaliate upon me, but be kind. Oh be kind to me -- a poor wicked woman who is trying to mend
All wrong, all wrong
Error -- perversity! It drives me out of my senses. Do you care for him? Do you love him? You know you don't! It will be a fanatic prostitution -- God forgive me, yes -- that's what it will be
I don't love him -- I must, must, own it, in deepest remorse! But I shall try to learn to love him by obeying him
I have been considerate enough to let you know the whole truth, and to tell it you myself
that you might not consider yourself slighted by hearing of it at second hand. I have even owned the extreme fact that I do not love him. I did not think you would be so rough with me for doing so! I was going to ask you
To give you away
No. To send -- my boxes to me -- if you would. But I suppose you won't
Why, of course I will. What -- isn't he coming to fetch you -- to marry you from here? He won't condescend to do that
No -- I won't let him. I go to him voluntarily, just as I went away from him. We are to be married at his little church at Marygreen
I never knew such a woman for doing impulsive penances, as you, Sue! No sooner does one expect you to go straight on, as the one rational proceeding, than you double round the corner
Ah, well; let that go! ... Jude, I must say good-bye! But I wanted you to go to the cemetery with me. Let our farewell be there -- beside the graves of those who died to bring home to me the error of my views
It is here -- I should like to part
So be it
Don't think me hard because I have acted on conviction. Your generous devotion to me is unparalleled, Jude! Your worldly failure, if you have failed, is to your credit rather than to your blame. Remember that the best and greatest among mankind are those who do themselves no worldly good. Every successful man is more or less a selfish man. The devoted fail... 'Charity seeketh not her own
In that chapter we are at one, ever beloved darling, and on it we'll part friends. Its verses will stand fast when all the rest that you call religion has passed away
Well -- don't discuss it. Good-bye, Jude; my fellow-sinner, and kindest friend
Good-bye, my mistaken wife. Good-bye
Sue's gone from me -- gone
I've come, Richard
I cannot believe -- you forgive your -- wife
Everything, darling Susanna
My children -- are dead -- and it is right that they should be! I am glad -- almost. They were sin-begotten. They were sacrificed to teach me how to live! Their death was the first stage of my purification. That's why they have not died in vain! ... You will take me back
You still have an aversion to me
Oh no, dear -- I have been driving through the damp, and I was chilly
When are we going to have the marriage? Soon
To-morrow morning, early, I thought -- if you really wish. I am sending round to the vicar to let him know you are come. I have told him all, and he highly approves -- he says it will bring our lives to a triumphant and satisfactory issue. But -- are you sure of yourself? It is not too late to refuse now if -- you think you can't bring yourself to it, you know
Yes, yes, I can! I want it done quick. Tell him, tell him at once! My strength is tried by the undertaking -- I can't wait long
Have something to eat and drink then, and go over to your room at Mrs. Edlin's. I'll tell the vicar half-past eight to-morrow, before anybody is about -- if that's not too soon for you? My friend Gillingham is here to help us in the ceremony. He's been good enough to come all the way from Shaston at great inconvenience to himself
Oh
What
Oh -- only a -- funny surprise
Ah! Yes
The licence.... It has just come
Oh -- I didn't know THAT was put in
I didn't mean it to be. Here is a different one
But this is the prettiest
That one is no better than very sackcloth o' Scripture
Yes -- I meant it to be. Give me the other
But my dear, dear!-- whatever
It is adulterous! It signifies what I don't feel -- I bought it long ago -- to please Jude. It must be destroyed
You med ha' give it to me
It do make my heart ache to see such pretty open-work as that a-burned by the flames -- not that ornamental night-rails can be much use to a' ould 'ooman like I. My days for such be all past and gone
It is an accursed thing -- it reminds me of what I want to forget
It is only fit for the fire
Lord, you be too strict! What do ye use such words for, and condemn to hell your dear little innocent children that's lost to 'ee! Upon my life I don't call that religion
Oh, don't, don't! That kills me
I'll tell 'ee what -- you ought not to marry this man again
You are in love wi' t' other still
Yes I must -- I am his already
Pshoo! You be t' other man's. If you didn't like to commit yourselves to the binding vow again, just at first, 'twas all the more credit to your consciences, considering your reasons, and you med ha' lived on, and made it all right at last. After all, it concerned nobody but your own two selves
Richard says he'll have me back, and I'm bound to go! If he had refused, it might not have been so much my duty to -- give up Jude. But
Well: you've all but got her again at last. She can't very well go a second time. The pear has dropped into your hand
Yes! ... I suppose I am right in taking her at her word. I confess there seems a touch of selfishness in it. Apart from her being what she is, of course, a luxury for a fogy like me, it will set me right in the eyes of the clergy and orthodox laity, who have never forgiven me for letting her go. So I may get back in some degree into my old track
Well -- if you've got any sound reason for marrying her again, do it now in God's name! I was always against your opening the cage-door and letting the bird go in such an obviously suicidal way. You might have been a school inspector by this time, or a reverend, if you hadn't been so weak about her
I did myself irreparable damage -- I know it
Once you've got her housed again, stick to her
Yes -- I shall do that. I know woman better now. Whatever justice there was in releasing her, there was little logic, for one holding my views on other subjects
I perceive it won't do to give way to impulse
I flew in the face of the Church's teaching; but I did it without malice prepense. Women are so strange in their influence that they tempt you to misplaced kindness. However, I know myself better now. A little judicious severity, perhaps
Yes; but you must tighten the reins by degrees only. Don't be too strenuous at first. She'll come to any terms in time
I remember what my vicar at Shaston said, when I left after the row that was made about my agreeing to her elopement. 'The only thing you can do to retrieve your position and hers is to admit your error in not restraining her with a wise and strong hand, and to get her back again if she'll come, and be firm in the future.' But I was so headstrong at that time that I paid no heed. And that after the divorce she should have thought of doing so I did not dream
Good-night
Oh, is that Mr. Phillotson
I was going over to see 'ee. I've been upstairs with her, helping her to unpack her things; and upon my word, sir, I don't think this ought to be
What -- the wedding
Yes. She's forcing herself to it, poor dear little thing; and you've no notion what she's suffering. I was never much for religion nor against it, but it can't be right to let her do this, and you ought to persuade her out of it. Of course everybody will say it was very good and forgiving of 'ee to take her to 'ee again. But for my part I don't
It's her wish, and I am willing
A great piece of laxity will be rectified
I don't believe it. She's his wife if anybody's. She's had three children by him, and he loves her dearly; and it's a wicked shame to egg her on to this, poor little quivering thing! She's got nobody on her side. The one man who'd be her friend the obstinate creature won't allow to come near her. What first put her into this mood o' mind, I wonder
I can't tell. Not I certainly. It is all voluntary on her part. Now that's all I have to say
You've turned round, Mrs. Edlin. It is unseemly of you
Well. I knowed you'd be affronted at what I had to say; but I don't mind that. The truth's the truth
I'm not affronted, Mrs. Edlin. You've been too kind a neighbour for that. But I must be allowed to know what's best for myself and Susanna. I suppose you won't go to church with us, then
No. Be hanged if I can... I don't know what the times be coming to! Matrimony have growed to be that serious in these days that one really do feel afeard to move in it at all. In my time we took it more careless; and I don't know that we was any the worse for it! When I and my poor man were jined in it we kept up the junketing all the week, and drunk the parish dry, and had to borrow half a crown to begin housekeeping
I don't know whether I ought to do it -- at any rate quite so rapidly
Why
If she is really compelling herself to this against her instincts -- merely from this new sense of duty or religion -- I ought perhaps to let her wait a bit
Now you've got so far you ought not to back out of it. That's my opinion
I can't very well put it off now; that's true. But I had a qualm when she gave that little cry at sight of the licence
Now, never you have qualms, old boy. I mean to give her away to-morrow morning, and you mean to take her. It has always been on my conscience that I didn't urge more objections to your letting her go, and now we've got to this stage I shan't be content if I don't help you to set the matter right
No doubt when it gets known what I've done I shall be thought a soft fool by many. But they don't know Sue as I do. Though so elusive, hers is such an honest nature at bottom that I don't think she has ever done anything against her conscience. The fact of her having lived with Fawley goes for nothing. At the time she left me for him she thought she was quite within her right. Now she thinks otherwise
Prompt
Where is the church
Up here
We almost want candles
You do -- wish me to be yours, Richard
Certainly, dear: above all things in the world
What God hath joined
God hath jined indeed
All's well that ends well
May you long be happy together, after thus having been 'saved as by fire
Now
I shall be able to tell the people in your native place a good round tale; and they'll all say 'Well done,' depend on it
Of course, my dear, I shan't expect to intrude upon your personal privacy any more than I did before
It is for our good socially to do this, and that's its justification, if it was not my reason
I am lonely, destitute, and houseless -- that's what I am! Father has turned me out of doors after borrowing every penny I'd got, to put it into his business, and then accusing me of laziness when I was only waiting for a situation. I am at the mercy of the world! If you can't take me and help me, Jude, I must go to the workhouse, or to something worse. Only just now two undergraduates winked at me as I came along. 'Tis hard for a woman to keep virtuous where there's so many young men
I am sorry for you, but I am only in lodgings
Then you turn me away
I'll give you enough to get food and lodging for a few days
Oh, but can't you have the kindness to take me in? I cannot endure going to a public house to lodge; and I am so lonely. Please, Jude, for old times' sake
No, no
I don't want to be reminded of those things; and if you talk about them I shall not help you
Then I suppose I must go
The house is full
And I have only a little extra room to my own -- not much more than a closet -- where I keep my tools, and templates, and the few books I have left
That would be a palace for me
There is no bedstead in it
A bit of a bed could be made on the floor. It would be good enough for me
You may remember me as barmaid at the Lamb and Flag formerly
My father has insulted me this afternoon, and I've left him, though without a penny
But still, if you are a friend of Mr. Fawley's we'll do what we can for a day or two -- if he'll make himself answerable
Yes, yes
She has really taken me quite unawares; but I should wish to help her out of her difficulty
You know the news, I suppose
I guess what you mean; but I know nothing
I had a letter from Anny at Alfredston to-day. She had just heard that the wedding was to be yesterday: but she didn't know if it had come off
I don't wish to talk of it
No, no: of course you don't. Only it shows what kind of woman
Don't speak of her I say! She's a fool! And she's an angel, too, poor dear
If it's done, he'll have a chance of getting back to his old position, by everybody's account, so Anny says. All his well-wishers will be pleased, including the bishop himself
Do spare me, Arabella
No -- the temptations are too many
Any humble tavern in the country before that for me
Yes, if you like
You seem all in a brood, old man. I'm sorry for you
I am all in a brood
It is about her, I know. It's no business of mine, but I could find out all about the wedding -- if it really did take place -- if you wanted to know
How could you
I wanted to go to Alfredston to get a few things I left there. And I could see Anny, who'll be sure to have heard all about it, as she has friends at Marygreen
You can ask about it if you like
I've not heard a sound from there. It must have been very private, if -- they have married
I am afraid I haven't enough cash to take me there and back, or I should have gone before. I must wait till I have earned some
Oh -- I can pay the journey for you
Why should I have charged her to be back by a particular time! She's nothing to me -- nor the other neither
Well
They are married
Yes -- of course they are
Anny says she has heard from Belinda, her relation out at Marygreen, that it was very sad, and curious
How do you mean sad? She wanted to marry him again, didn't she? And he her
Yes -- that was it. She wanted to in one sense, but not in the other. Mrs. Edlin was much upset by it all, and spoke out her mind at Phillotson. But Sue was that excited about it that she burnt her best embroidery that she'd worn with you, to blot you out entirely. Well -- if a woman feels like it, she ought to do it. I commend her for it, though others don't
She felt he was her only husband, and that she belonged to nobody else in the sight of God A'mighty while he lived. Perhaps another woman feels the same about herself, too
I don't want any cant
It isn't cant
I feel exactly the same as she
Well -- now I know all I wanted to know. Many thanks for your information. I am not going back to my lodgings just yet
Well
for all your rowing me that night, I've called in, for I have something to tell you. I think I shall get married and settled again. Only you must help me: and you can do no less, after what I've stood 'ee
I'll do anything to get thee off my hands
Very well. I am now going to look for my young man. He's on the loose I'm afraid, and I must get him home. All I want you to do to-night is not to fasten the door, in case I should want to sleep here, and should be late
I thought you'd soon get tired of giving yourself airs and keeping away
Well -- don't do the door. That's all I say
You've come to have something, Arabella? ... I'm trying to forget her: that's all! But I can't; and I am going home
I've come entirely to look for you, dear boy. You are not well. Now you must have something better than that
You shall have a liqueur -- that's better fit for a man of education than beer. You shall have maraschino, or curacao dry or sweet, or cherry brandy. I'll treat you, poor chap
I don't care which! Say cherry brandy... Sue has served me badly, very badly. I didn't expect it of Sue! I stuck to her, and she ought to have stuck to me. I'd have sold my soul for her sake, but she wouldn't risk hers a jot for me. To save her own soul she lets mine go damn! ... But it isn't her fault, poor little girl -- I am sure it isn't
I don't care what happens to me
But I do very much
I don't know what our landlord will say to my bringing you home in this state. I expect we are fastened out, so that he'll have to come down and let us in
I don't know -- I don't know
That's the worst of not having a home of your own. I tell you, Jude, what we had best do. Come round to my father's -- I made it up with him a bit to-day. I can let you in, and nobody will see you at all; and by to-morrow morning you'll be all right
Anything -- anywhere
What the devil does it matter to me
This -- is th' Martyrs'-- burning-place
I remember -- in old Fuller's _Holy State_ -- and I am reminded of it -- by our passing by here -- old Fuller in his _Holy State_ says, that at the burning of Ridley, Doctor Smith -- preached sermon, and took as his text _'Though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing.'_ -- Often think of it as I pass here. Ridley was a
Yes. Exactly. Very thoughtful of you, deary, even though it hasn't much to do with our present business
Why, yes it has! I'm giving my body to be burned! But -- ah you don't understand!-- it wants Sue to understand such things! And I was her seducer -- poor little girl! And she's gone -- and I don't care about myself! Do what you like with me! ... And yet she did it for conscience' sake, poor little Sue
Hang her!-- I mean, I think she was right
I've my feelings too, like her; and I feel I belong to you in Heaven's eye, and to nobody else, till death us do part! It is -- hic -- never too late -- hic to mend
I can't find the matches, dear
But never mind -- this way. As quiet as you can, please
It is as dark as pitch
Give me your hand, and I'll lead you. That's it. Just sit down here, and I'll pull off your boots. I don't want to wake him
Who
Father. He'd make a row, perhaps
Now
take hold of me -- never mind your weight. Now -- first stair, second stair
But -- are we out in our old house by Marygreen
I haven't been inside it for years till now! Hey? And where are my books? That's what I want to know
We are at my house, dear, where there's nobody to spy out how ill you are. Now -- third stair, fourth stair -- that's it. Now we shall get on
You must mind the shop this morning
I've to go and get some inwards and half a pig from Lumsdon, and to call elsewhere. If you live here you must put your shoulder to the wheel, at least till I get the business started
Well, for to-day I can't say
I've got a prize upstairs
Oh? What's that
A husband -- almost
No
Yes. It's Jude. He's come back to me
Your old original one? Well, I'm damned
Well, I always did like him, that I will say
But how does he come to be up there
Don't ask inconvenient questions, Father. What we've to do is to keep him here till he and I are -- as we were
How was that
Married
Ah... Well it is the rummest thing I ever heard of -- marrying an old husband again, and so much new blood in the world! He's no catch, to my thinking. I'd have had a new one while I was about it
It isn't rum for a woman to want her old husband back for respectability, though for a man to want his old wife back -- well, perhaps it is funny, rather
Be civil to him, and I'll do the rest
He told me this morning that his head ached fit to burst, and he hardly seemed to know where he was. And no wonder, considering how he mixed his drink last night. We must keep him jolly and cheerful here for a day or two, and not let him go back to his lodging. Whatever you advance I'll pay back to you again. But I must go up and see how he is now, poor deary
How are you now, dear
It is I -- Arabella
Ah!-- where -- oh yes, I remember! You gave me shelter... I am stranded -- ill -- demoralized -- damn bad! That's what I am
Then do stay here. There's nobody in the house but father and me, and you can rest till you are thoroughly well. I'll tell them at the stoneworks that you are knocked up
I wonder what they are thinking at the lodgings
I'll go round and explain. Perhaps you had better let me pay up, or they'll think we've run away
Yes. You'll find enough money in my pocket there
Now
we must keep plenty of good liquor going in the house these next few days. I know his nature, and if he once gets into that fearfully low state that he does get into sometimes, he'll never do the honourable thing by me in this world, and I shall be left in the lurch. He must be kept cheerful. He has a little money in the savings bank, and he has given me his purse to pay for anything necessary. Well, that will be the licence; for I must have that ready at hand, to catch him the moment he's in the humour. You must pay for the liquor. A few friends, and a quiet convivial party would be the thing, if we could get it up. It would advertise the shop, and help me too
That can be got up easy enough by anybody who'll afford victuals and drink... Well yes -- it would advertise the shop -- that's true
Well -- to be sure
Yes
Here we are, just the same. We ought to be ashamed of ourselves, oughtn't we! But it is a sort of housewarming, you see; and our friends are in no hurry. Come in, Mr. Taylor, and sit down
I shall lose a quarter, but never mind
Well, really, I could hardly believe my eyes when I looked in! It seemed as if I was flung back again into last night, all of a sudden
So you are. Pour out for Mr. Taylor
Well, we've been waiting for certain legal hours to arrive, to tell the truth
Jude and I have decided to make up matters between us by tying the knot again, as we find we can't do without one another after all. So, as a bright notion, we agreed to sit on till it was late enough, and go and do it off-hand
Now we may as well go
But the parson don't know
Yes, I told him last night that we might come between eight and nine, as there were reasons of decency for doing it as early and quiet as possible; on account of it being our second marriage, which might make people curious to look on if they knew. He highly approved
Oh very well: I'm ready
Now, old darling
Come along, as you promised
When did I promise anything
Why
You've promised to marry me several times as we've sat here to-night. These gentlemen have heard you
I don't remember it
There's only one woman -- but I won't mention her in this Capharnaum
Now, Mr. Fawley be honourable
You and my daughter have been living here together these three or four days, quite on the understanding that you were going to marry her. Of course I shouldn't have had such goings on in my house if I hadn't understood that. As a point of honour you must do it now
Don't say anything against my honour
I'd marry the W ---- of Babylon rather than do anything dishonourable! No reflection on you, my dear. It is a mere rhetorical figure -- what they call in the books, hyperbole
Keep your figures for your debts to friends who shelter you
If I am bound in honour to marry her -- as I suppose I am -- though how I came to be here with her I know no more than a dead man -- marry her I will, so help me God! I have never behaved dishonourably to a woman or to any living thing. I am not a man who wants to save himself at the expense of the weaker among us
There -- never mind him, deary
Come up and wash your face, and just put yourself tidy, and off we'll go. Make it up with Father
Don't go
I've told the little maid to get the breakfast while we are gone; and when we come back we'll all have some. A good strong cup of tea will set everybody right for going home
I don't wish to speak against friends
But it do seem a rare curiosity for a couple to marry over again! If they couldn't get on the first time when their minds were limp, they won't the second, by my reckoning
Do you think he'll do it
He's been put upon his honour by the woman, so he med
He'd hardly do it straight off like this. He's got no licence nor anything
She's got that, bless you. Didn't you hear her say so to her father
Well
Take her all together, limb by limb, she's not such a bad-looking piece -- particular by candlelight. To be sure, halfpence that have been in circulation can't be expected to look like new ones from the mint. But for a woman that's been knocking about the four hemispheres for some time, she's passable enough. A little bit thick in the flitch perhaps: but I like a woman that a puff o' wind won't blow down
By Gad, they are coming! I think the deed's done
No
Take my word, he turned rusty at the last minute. They are walking in a very unusual way; and that's the meaning of it
Mrs. Fawley, I presume
Certainly. Mrs. Fawley again
There's the padlock, see... Well, he was a very nice, gentlemanly man indeed. I mean the clergyman. He said to me as gentle as a babe when all was done: 'Mrs. Fawley, I congratulate you heartily,' he says. 'For having heard your history, and that of your husband, I think you have both done the right and proper thing. And for your past errors as a wife, and his as a husband, I think you ought now to be forgiven by the world, as you have forgiven each other,' says he. Yes: he was a very nice, gentlemanly man. 'The Church don't recognize divorce in her dogma, strictly speaking,' he says: 'and bear in mind the words of the service in your goings out and your comings in: What God hath joined together let no man put asunder.' Yes: he was a very nice, gentlemanly man... But, Jude, my dear, you were enough to make a cat laugh! You walked that straight, and held yourself that steady, that one would have thought you were going 'prentice to a judge; though I knew you were seeing double all the time, from the way you fumbled with my finger
I said I'd do anything to -- save a woman's honour
And I've done it
Well now, old deary, come along and have some breakfast
I want -- some -- more whisky
Nonsense, dear. Not now! There's no more left. The tea will take the muddle out of our heads, and we shall be as fresh as larks
All right. I've -- married you. She said I ought to marry you again, and I have straightway. It is true religion! Ha -- ha -- ha
I've got a bargain for my trouble in marrying thee over again
I shall have to keep 'ee entirely -- that's what 'twill come to! I shall have to make black-pot and sausages, and hawk 'em about the street, all to support an invalid husband I'd no business to be saddled with at all. Why didn't you keep your health, deceiving one like this? You were well enough when the wedding was
Ah, yes
I have been thinking of my foolish feeling about the pig you and I killed during our first marriage. I feel now that the greatest mercy that could be vouchsafed to me would be that something should serve me as I served that animal
To write to Sue
What in the name -- do you want me to write to her for
To ask how she is, and if she'll come to see me, because I'm ill, and should like to see her -- once again
It is like you to insult a lawful wife by asking such a thing
It is just in order not to insult you that I ask you to do it. You know I love Sue. I don't wish to mince the matter -- there stands the fact: I love her. I could find a dozen ways of sending a letter to her without your knowledge. But I wish to be quite above-board with you, and with her husband. A message through you asking her to come is at least free from any odour of intrigue. If she retains any of her old nature at all, she'll come
You've no respect for marriage whatever, or its rights and duties
What DOES it matter what my opinions are -- a wretch like me! Can it matter to anybody in the world who comes to see me for half an hour -- here with one foot in the grave! ... Come, please write, Arabella
Repay my candour by a little generosity
I should think NOT
Not just once?-- Oh do
What do you want HER to know how you are for? She don't want to see 'ee. She's the rat that forsook the sinking ship
Don't, don't
And I stuck to un -- the more fool I! Have that strumpet in the house indeed
Say another word of that sort
and I'll kill you -- here and now! I've everything to gain by it -- my own death not being the least part. So don't think there's no meaning in what I say
What do you want me to do
Promise never to speak of her
Very well. I do
I take your word
But what it is worth I can't say
You couldn't kill the pig, but you could kill me
Ah -- there you have me! No -- I couldn't kill you -- even in a passion. Taunt away
I'll send for her
if you'll agree to my being in the room with you all the time she's here
Yes, I agree. Only send for her
Yes
I wrote a note telling her you were ill, and asking her to come to-morrow or the day after. I haven't posted it yet
Now where the devil is my man gone to
If he's such a fool, let him be
I can do no more
Please call at the schoolhouse and ask Mrs. Phillotson if she will be kind enough to come to the church for a few minutes
Oh -- I didn't think it was you! I didn't -- Oh, Jude
Don't go -- don't go
This is my last time! I thought it would be less intrusive than to enter your house. And I shall never come again. Don't then be unmerciful. Sue, Sue! We are acting by the letter; and 'the letter killeth
I'll stay -- I won't be unkind
But why did you come, and do this wrong thing, after doing such a right thing as you have done
What right thing
Marrying Arabella again. It was in the Alfredston paper. She has never been other than yours, Jude -- in a proper sense. And therefore you did so well -- Oh so well!-- in recognizing it -- and taking her to you again
God above -- and is that all I've come to hear? If there is anything more degrading, immoral, unnatural, than another in my life, it is this meretricious contract with Arabella which has been called doing the right thing! And you too -- you call yourself Phillotson's wife! HIS wife! You are mine
Don't make me rush away from you -- I can't bear much! But on this point I am decided
I cannot understand how you did it -- how you think it -- I cannot
Never mind that. He is a kind husband to me -- And I -- I've wrestled and struggled, and fasted, and prayed. I have nearly brought my body into complete subjection. And you mustn't -- will you -- wake
Oh you darling little fool; where is your reason? You seem to have suffered the loss of your faculties! I would argue with you if I didn't know that a woman in your state of feeling is quite beyond all appeals to her brains. Or is it that you are humbugging yourself, as so many women do about these things; and don't actually believe what you pretend to, and only are indulging in the luxury of the emotion raised by an affected belief
Luxury! How can you be so cruel
You dear, sad, soft, most melancholy wreck of a promising human intellect that it has ever been my lot to behold! Where is your scorn of convention gone? I WOULD have died game
You crush, almost insult me, Jude! Go away from me
I will. I would never come to see you again, even if I had the strength to come, which I shall not have any more. Sue, Sue, you are not worth a man's love
I can't endure you to say that
Don't, don't scorn me! Kiss me, oh kiss me lots of times, and say I am not a coward and a contemptible humbug -- I can't bear it
I must tell you -- oh I must -- my darling Love! It has been -- only a church marriage -- an apparent marriage I mean! He suggested it at the very first
How
I mean it is a nominal marriage only. It hasn't been more than that at all since I came back to him
Sue
If misery can know happiness, I have a moment's happiness now! Now, in the name of all you hold holy, tell me the truth, and no lie. You do love me still
I do! You know it too well! ... But I MUSTN'T do this! I mustn't kiss you back as I would
But do
And yet you are so dear!-- and you look so ill
And so do you! There's one more, in memory of our dead little children -- yours and mine
I MUSTN'T -- I CAN'T go on with this
But there, there, darling; I give you back your kisses; I do, I do! ... And now I'll HATE myself for ever for my sin
No -- let me make my last appeal. Listen to this! We've both remarried out of our senses. I was made drunk to do it. You were the same. I was gin-drunk; you were creed-drunk. Either form of intoxication takes away the nobler vision... Let us then shake off our mistakes, and run away together
No; again no! ... Why do you tempt me so far, Jude! It is too merciless! ... But I've got over myself now. Don't follow me -- don't look at me. Leave me, for pity's sake
You've been to see her
I have
Well, now you'd best march along home
You've done for yourself by this, young man
I don't know whether you know it
Of course I do. I meant to do for myself
What -- to commit suicide
Certainly
Well, I'm blest! Kill yourself for a woman
Listen to me, Arabella. You think you are the stronger; and so you are, in a physical sense, now. You could push me over like a nine-pin. You did not send that letter the other day, and I could not resent your conduct. But I am not so weak in another way as you think. I made up my mind that a man confined to his room by inflammation of the lungs, a fellow who had only two wishes left in the world, to see a particular woman, and then to die, could neatly accomplish those two wishes at one stroke by taking this journey in the rain. That I've done. I have seen her for the last time, and I've finished myself -- put an end to a feverish life which ought never to have been begun
Lord -- you do talk lofty! Won't you have something warm to drink
No thank you. Let's get home
What are you looking at
Stupid fancies. I see, in a way, those spirits of the dead again, on this my last walk, that I saw when I first walked here
What a curious chap you are
I seem to see them, and almost hear them rustling. But I don't revere all of them as I did then. I don't believe in half of them. The theologians, the apologists, and their kin the metaphysicians, the high-handed statesmen, and others, no longer interest me. All that has been spoilt for me by the grind of stern reality
They seem laughing at me
Who
Oh -- I was talking to myself! The phantoms all about here, in the college archways, and windows. They used to look friendly in the old days, particularly Addison, and Gibbon, and Johnson, and Dr. Browne, and Bishop Ken
Come along do! Phantoms! There's neither living nor dead hereabouts except a damn policeman! I never saw the streets emptier
Fancy! The Poet of Liberty used to walk here, and the great Dissector of Melancholy there
I don't want to hear about 'em! They bore me
Walter Raleigh is beckoning to me from that lane -- Wycliffe -- Harvey -- Hooker -- Arnold -- and a whole crowd of Tractarian Shades
I DON'T WANT to know their names, I tell you! What do I care about folk dead and gone? Upon my soul you are more sober when you've been drinking than when you have not
I must rest a moment
This is old Rubric. And that Sarcophagus; and Up that lane Crozier and Tudor: and all down there is Cardinal with its long front, and its windows with lifted eyebrows, representing the polite surprise of the university at the efforts of such as I
Come along, and I'll treat you
Very well. It will help me home, for I feel the chilly fog from the meadows of Cardinal as if death-claws were grabbing me through and through. As Antigone said, I am neither a dweller among men nor ghosts. But, Arabella, when I am dead, you'll see my spirit flitting up and down here among these
Pooh! You mayn't die after all. You are tough enough yet, old man
Lord love 'ee, what do ye do that yourself for, when I've come o' purpose! You knew I should come
Oh -- I don't know -- I forgot! No, I didn't forget. I did it to discipline myself. I have scrubbed the stairs since eight o'clock. I MUST practise myself in my household duties. I've shamefully neglected them
Why should ye? He'll get a better school, perhaps be a parson, in time, and you'll keep two servants. 'Tis a pity to spoil them pretty hands
Don't talk of my pretty hands, Mrs. Edlin. This pretty body of mine has been the ruin of me already
Pshoo -- you've got no body to speak of! You put me more in mind of a sperrit. But there seems something wrong to-night, my dear. Husband cross
No. He never is. He's gone to bed early
Then what is it
I cannot tell you. I have done wrong to-day. And I want to eradicate it... Well -- I will tell you this -- Jude has been here this afternoon, and I find I still love him -- oh, grossly! I cannot tell you more
Ah
I told 'ee how 'twould be
But it shan't be! I have not told my husband of his visit; it is not necessary to trouble him about it, as I never mean to see Jude any more. But I am going to make my conscience right on my duty to Richard -- by doing a penance -- the ultimate thing. I must
I wouldn't -- since he agrees to it being otherwise, and it has gone on three months very well as it is
Yes -- he agrees to my living as I choose; but I feel it is an indulgence I ought not to exact from him. It ought not to have been accepted by me. To reverse it will be terrible -- but I must be more just to him. O why was I so unheroic
What is it you don't like in him
I cannot tell you. It is something... I cannot say. The mournful thing is, that nobody would admit it as a reason for feeling as I do; so that no excuse is left me
Did you ever tell Jude what it was
Never
I've heard strange tales o' husbands in my time
They say that when the saints were upon the earth devils used to take husbands' forms o' nights, and get poor women into all sorts of trouble. But I don't know why that should come into my head, for it is only a tale... What a wind and rain it is to-night! Well -- don't be in a hurry to alter things, my dear. Think it over
No, no! I've screwed my weak soul up to treating him more courteously -- and it must be now -- at once -- before I break down
I don't think you ought to force your nature. No woman ought to be expected to
It is my duty. I will drink my cup to the dregs
No -- no -- don't go, Mrs. Edlin
But it is bedtime, child
Yes, but -- there's the little spare room -- my room that was. It is quite ready. Please stay, Mrs. Edlin!-- I shall want you in the morning
Oh well -- I don't mind, if you wish. Nothing will happen to my four old walls, whether I be there or no
Wait here, Mrs. Edlin
I'll go into my old room a moment by myself
Richard
Are you in bed, Mrs. Edlin
No, dear
I be old and slow, and it takes me a long while to un-ray. I han't unlaced my jumps yet
I -- don't hear him! And perhaps -- perhaps
What, child
Perhaps he's dead
And then -- I should be FREE, and I could go to Jude! ... Ah -- no -- I forgot HER -- and God
Let's go and hearken. No -- he's snoring again. But the rain and the wind is so loud that you can hardly hear anything but between whiles
Mrs. Edlin, good-night again! I am sorry I called you out
I must do it -- I must! I must drink to the dregs
Richard
Hey -- what? Is that you, Susanna
Yes
What do you want? Anything the matter? Wait a moment
Yes
When we were at Shaston I jumped out of the window rather than that you should come near me. I have never reversed that treatment till now -- when I have come to beg your pardon for it, and ask you to let me in
Perhaps you only think you ought to do this? I don't wish you to come against your impulses, as I have said
But I beg to be admitted
I beg to be admitted! I have been in error -- even to-day. I have exceeded my rights. I did not mean to tell you, but perhaps I ought. I sinned against you this afternoon
How
I met Jude! I didn't know he was coming. And
Well
I kissed him, and let him kiss me
Oh -- the old story
Richard, I didn't know we were going to kiss each other till we did
How many times
A good many. I don't know. I am horrified to look back on it, and the least I can do after it is to come to you like this
Come -- this is pretty bad, after what I've done! Anything else to confess
No
I called him my darling love
I am never going to see him any more. He spoke of some things of the past: and it overcame me. He spoke of -- the children. But, as I have said, I am glad -- almost glad I mean -- that they are dead, Richard. It blots out all that life of mine
Well -- about not seeing him again any more. Come -- you really mean this
Yes, yes
Perhaps you'll swear it on the New Testament
I will
Now then: So help you God
Very good
Now I supplicate you, Richard, to whom I belong, and whom I wish to honour and obey, as I vowed, to let me in
Think it over well. You know what it means. Having you back in the house was one thing -- this another. So think again
I have thought -- I wish this
That's a complaisant spirit -- and perhaps you are right. With a lover hanging about, a half-marriage should be completed. But I repeat my reminder this third and last time
It is my wish! ... O God
What did you say 'O God' for
I don't know
Yes you do! But
Well, I thought it might end like this
I owe you nothing, after these signs; but I'll take you in at your word, and forgive you
What's the matter
You shrink from me again?-- just as formerly
No, Richard -- I -- I -- was not thinking
You wish to come in here
Yes
You still bear in mind what it means
Yes. It is my duty
Ah -- perhaps I'd better go and see if the little thing is all right. How it do blow and rain
Ah! Poor soul! Weddings be funerals 'a b'lieve nowadays. Fifty-five years ago, come Fall, since my man and I married! Times have changed since then
I'm hanged if you haven't been clever in this last stroke
to get a nurse for nothing by marrying me
Every man has some little power in some one direction
I was never really stout enough for the stone trade, particularly the fixing. Moving the blocks always used to strain me, and standing the trying draughts in buildings before the windows are in always gave me colds, and I think that began the mischief inside. But I felt I could do one thing if I had the opportunity. I could accumulate ideas, and impart them to others. I wonder if the founders had such as I in their minds -- a fellow good for nothing else but that particular thing? ... I hear that soon there is going to be a better chance for such helpless students as I was. There are schemes afoot for making the university less exclusive, and extending its influence. I don't know much about it. And it is too late, too late for me! Ah -- and for how many worthier ones before me
How you keep a-mumbling
I should have thought you'd have got over all that craze about books by this time. And so you would, if you'd had any sense to begin with. You are as bad now as when we were first married
I wish you'd mind who you are talking to
Calling a respectable married woman by the name of that
I suppose you want to see your -- Sue
Well, I don't mind her coming. You can have her here if you like
I don't wish to see her again
Oh -- that's a change
And don't tell her anything about me -- that I'm ill, or anything. She has chosen her course. Let her go
I suppose they are still only husband and wife in name
Well, no -- it's different now. She's begun it quite lately -- all of her own free will
When did she begin
The night after you came. But as a punishment to her poor self. He didn't wish it, but she insisted
Sue, my Sue -- you darling fool -- this is almost more than I can endure! ... Mrs. Edlin -- don't be frightened at my rambling -- I've got to talk to myself lying here so many hours alone -- she was once a woman whose intellect was to mine like a star to a benzoline lamp: who saw all MY superstitions as cobwebs that she could brush away with a word. Then bitter affliction came to us, and her intellect broke, and she veered round to darkness. Strange difference of sex, that time and circumstance, which enlarge the views of most men, narrow the views of women almost invariably. And now the ultimate horror has come -- her giving herself like this to what she loathes, in her enslavement to forms! She, so sensitive, so shrinking, that the very wind seemed to blow on her with a touch of deference... As for Sue and me when we were at our own best, long ago -- when our minds were clear, and our love of truth fearless -- the time was not ripe for us! Our ideas were fifty years too soon to be any good to us. And so the resistance they met with brought reaction in her, and recklessness and ruin on me! ... There -- this, Mrs. Edlin, is how I go on to myself continually, as I lie here. I must be boring you awfully
Not at all, my dear boy. I could hearken to 'ee all day
The doctor
How is my patient at present
Oh bad -- very bad! Poor chap, he got excited, and do blaspeam terribly, since I let out some gossip by accident -- the more to my blame. But there -- you must excuse a man in suffering for what he says, and I hope God will forgive him
Ah. I'll go up and see him. Mrs. Fawley at home
She's not in at present, but she'll be here soon
I'll bring it to you here in the passage
There's nobody but me about the house to-day
What is this, my dear
Oh -- a drop of wine -- and something in it
I poured your own love-philtre into it, that you sold me at the agricultural show, don't you re-member
I do, I do! Clever woman! But you must be prepared for the consequences
Don't don't
My man will hear
Well! Weak women must provide for a rainy day. And if my poor fellow upstairs do go off -- as I suppose he will soon -- it's well to keep chances open. And I can't pick and choose now as I could when I was younger. And one must take the old if one can't get the young
Why ever doesn't Father come
A little water, please
Water -- some water -- Sue -- Arabella
Throat -- water -- Sue -- darling -- drop of water -- please -- oh please
Ah -- yes! The Remembrance games
And I here. And Sue defiled
Hurrah
Hurrah
Hurrah
I should not mind having a spin there with a fellow's arm round my waist
But Lord, I must be getting home again -- there's a lot to do. No dancing for me
We are just going down to the river
to see the boat-bumping. But we've called round on our way to ask how your husband is
He's sleeping nicely, thank you
That's right. Well now, can't you give yourself half an hour's relaxation, Mrs. Fawley, and come along with us? 'Twould do you good
I should like to go
I've never seen the boat-racing, and I hear it is good fun
Come along
How I WISH I could
Wait a minute, then. I'll just run up and see how he is now. Father is with him, I believe; so I can most likely come
Why couldn't he have been here
He wants to see the boats himself -- that's what it is
To think he should die just now! Why did he die just now
Here she is
We wondered if you were coming after all. Come along; we must be quick to get a good place... Well, how is he? Sleeping well still? Of course, we don't want to drag 'ee away if
Oh yes -- sleeping quite sound. He won't wake yet
Oh, I say -- how jolly! I'm glad I've come
And -- it can't hurt my husband -- my being away
That philtre is operating, you know
Shame on 'ee to wreck a heart so
I shan't talk of love to-day
Why not? It is a general holiday
Well -- it's been awfully good
But I think I must get back to my poor man. Father is there, so far as I know; but I had better get back
What's your hurry
Well, I must go... Dear, dear, this is awkward
Dear, dear
What a fidget you are, my love
Just as well have patience: there's no getting away yet
My husband has just gone, poor soul
Can you come and lay him out
I must call at the sexton's about the bell, too
It is just round here, isn't it? I'll meet you at my door
How beautiful he is
Yes. He's a 'andsome corpse
What's that
Oh, that's the doctors in the theatre, conferring honorary degrees on the Duke of Hamptonshire and a lot more illustrious gents of that sort. It's Remembrance Week, you know. The cheers come from the young men
Aye; young and strong-lunged! Not like our poor boy here
D'ye think she will come
I could not say. She swore not to see him again
How is she looking
Tired and miserable, poor heart. Years and years older than when you saw her last. Quite a staid, worn woman now. 'Tis the man -- she can't stomach un, even now
If Jude had been alive to see her, he would hardly have cared for her any more, perhaps
That's what we don't know... Didn't he ever ask you to send for her, since he came to see her in that strange way
No. Quite the contrary. I offered to send, and he said I was not to let her know how ill he was
Did he forgive her
Not as I know
She may swear that on her knees to the holy cross upon her necklace till she's hoarse, but it won't be true
She's never found peace since she left his arms, and never will again till she's as he is now
</text>
