<text>
Do you know, my dear Miss Graham
I think you ought to consider yourself a remarkably lucky girl
What do you mean, my dear Mrs. Dawson
Why, I mean, my dear, that it only rests with yourself to become Lady Audley, and the mistress of Audley Court
My dear, don't agitate yourself
you know that nobody asks you to marry Sir Michael unless you wish. Of course it would be a magnificent match; he has a splendid income, and is one of the most generous of men. Your position would be very high, and you would be enabled to do a great deal of good; but, as I said before, you must be entirely guided by your own feelings. Only one thing I must say, and that is that if Sir Michael's attentions are not agreeable to you, it is really scarcely honorable to encourage him
His attentions -- encourage him
Pray, pray don't talk to me, Mrs. Dawson. I had no idea of this. It is the last thing that would have occurred to me
I think some people are born to be unlucky, Mrs. Dawson
it would be a great deal too much good fortune for me to become Lady Audley
You unlucky, my dear
I think you are the last person who ought to talk like that -- you, such a bright, happy creature, that it does every one good to see you. I'm sure I don't know what we shall do if Sir Michael robs us of you
I scarcely think there is a greater sin, Lucy
than that of a woman who marries a man she does not love. You are so precious to me, my beloved, that deeply as my heart is set on this, and bitter as the mere thought of disappointment is to me, I would not have you commit such a sin for any happiness of mine. If my happiness could be achieved by such an act, which it could not -- which it never could
nothing but misery can result from a marriage dictated by any motive but truth and love
Lucy, you heard me
Yes
And your answer
No, Lucy; no, no
not here, not here
Yes, here, here
here and nowhere else. How good you are -- how noble and how generous! Love you! Why, there are women a hundred times my superiors in beauty and in goodness who might love you dearly; but you ask too much of me! Remember what my life has been; only remember that! From my very babyhood I have never seen anything but poverty. My father was a gentleman: clever, accomplished, handsome -- but poor -- and what a pitiful wretch poverty made of him! My mother -- But do not let me speak of her. Poverty -- poverty, trials, vexations, humiliations, deprivations. You cannot tell; you, who are among those for whom life is so smooth and easy, you can never guess what is endured by such as we. Do not ask too much of me, then. I cannot be disinterested; I cannot be blind to the advantages of such an alliance. I cannot, I cannot
Don't ask too much of me
I have been selfish from my babyhood
Lucy -- Lucy, speak plainly. Do you dislike me
Dislike you? No -- no
But is there any one else whom you love
I do not love any one in the world
Well, Lucy, I will not ask too much of you. I dare say I am a romantic old fool; but if you do not dislike me, and if you do not love any one else, I see no reason why we should not make a very happy couple. Is it a bargain, Lucy
Yes
No more dependence, no more drudgery, no more humiliations
every trace of the old life melted away -- every clew to identity buried and forgotten -- except these, except these
How wearisome they are
blue and green, and opal; opal, and blue, and green; all very well in their way, of course, but three months of them are rather too much, especially
Poor little girl, how pleased she'll be
how pleased and how surprised? Poor little girl. After three years and a half, too; she _will_ be surprised
Ah, yes, by Jove
To be sure, ah
I will go ashore in the first boat that hails us
I will go ashore in a cockle-shell. By Jove, if it comes to that, I will swim to land
Does my cigar annoy you, Miss Morley
Not at all; pray do not leave off smoking. I only came up to look at the sunset. What a lovely evening
Yes, yes, I dare say
yet so long, so long! Ten more interminable days and ten more weary nights before we land
Yes
Do you wish the time shorter
Do I
Indeed I do. Don't you
Scarcely
But is there no one you love in England? Is there no one you love looking out for your arrival
I hope so
See
there's the new moon
This is the first time we have seen it
We must wish
I know what I wish
What
That we may get home quickly
My wish is that we may find no disappointment when we get there
Disappointment
I mean this
I mean that as the end of the voyage draws near, hope sinks in my heart; and a sick fear comes over me that at the last all may not be well. The person I go to meet may be changed in his feelings toward me; or he may retain all the old feeling until the moment of seeing me, and then lose it in a breath at sight of my poor wan face, for I was called a pretty girl, Mr. Talboys, when I sailed for Sydney, fifteen years ago; or he may be so changed by the world as to have grown selfish and mercenary, and he may welcome me for the sake of my fifteen years' savings. Again, he may be dead. He may have been well, perhaps, up to within a week of our landing, and in that last week may have taken a fever, and died an hour before our vessel anchors in the Mersey. I think of all these things, Mr. Talboys, and act the scenes over in my mind, and feel the anguish of them twenty times a day. Twenty times a day
why I do it a thousand times a day
I wonder
I wonder, looking back, to think how hopeful I was when the vessel sailed; I never thought then of disappointment, but I pictured the joy of meeting, imagining the very words that would be said, the very tones, the very looks; but for this last month of the voyage, day by day, and hour by hour my heart sinks and my hopeful fancies fade away, and I dread the end as much as if I knew that I was going to England to attend a funeral
What a fool
what a fool I am to be frightened at this? Why do you come and say these things to me? Why do you come and terrify me out of my senses, when I am going straight home to the woman I love; to a girl whose heart is as true as the light of Heaven; and in whom I no more expect to find any change than I do to see another sun rise in to-morrow's sky? Why do you come and try to put such fancies in my head when I am going home to my darling wife
Your wife
that is different. There is no reason that my terrors should terrify you. I am going to England to rejoin a man to whom I was engaged to be married fifteen years ago. He was too poor to marry then, and when I was offered a situation as governess in a rich Australian family, I persuaded him to let me accept it, so that I might leave him free and unfettered to win his way in the world, while I saved a little money to help us when we began life together. I never meant to stay away so long, but things have gone badly with him in England. That is my story, and you can understand my fears. They need not influence you. Mine is an exceptional case
So is mine
I tell you that mine is an exceptional case: although I swear to you that until this moment, I have never known a fear as to the result of my voyage home. But you are right; your terrors have nothing to do with me. You have been away fifteen years; all kinds of things may happen in fifteen years. Now it is only three years and a half this very month since I left England. What can have happened in such a short time as that
My pretty little wife! My gentle, innocent, loving little wife! Do you know, Miss Morley
that I left my little girl asleep, with her baby in her arms, and with nothing but a few blotted lines to tell her why her faithful husband had deserted her
Deserted her
Yes. I was an ensign in a cavalry regiment when I first met my little darling. We were quartered at a stupid seaport town, where my pet lived with her shabby old father, a half-pay naval officer; a regular old humbug, as poor as Job, and with an eye for nothing but the main chance. I saw through all his shallow tricks to catch one of us for his pretty daughter. I saw all the pitiable, contemptible, palpable traps he set for us big dragoons to walk into. I saw through his shabby-genteel dinners and public-house port; his fine talk of the grandeur of his family; his sham pride and independence, and the sham tears of his bleared old eyes when he talked of his only child. He was a drunken old hypocrite, and he was ready to sell my poor, little girl to the highest bidder. Luckily for me, I happened just then to be the highest bidder; for my father, is a rich man, Miss Morley, and as it was love at first sight on both sides, my darling and I made a match of it. No sooner, however, did my father hear that I had married a penniless little girl, the daughter of a tipsy old half-pay lieutenant, than he wrote me a furious letter, telling me he would never again hold any communication with me, and that my yearly allowance would stop from my wedding-day. "As there was no remaining in such a regiment as mine, with nothing but my pay to live on, and my pretty little wife to keep, I sold out, thinking that before the money was exhausted, I should be sure to drop into something. I took my darling to Italy, and we lived there in splendid style as long as my two thousand pounds lasted; but when that began to dwindle down to a couple of hundred or so, we came back to England, and as my darling had a fancy for being near that tiresome old father of hers, we settled at the watering-place where he lived. Well, as soon as the old man heard that I had a couple of hundred pounds left, he expressed a wonderful degree of affection for us, and insisted on our boarding in his house. We consented, still to please my darling, who had just then a peculiar right to have every whim and fancy of her innocent heart indulged. We did board with him, and finally he fleeced us; but when I spoke of it to my little wife, she only shrugged her shoulders, and said she did not like to be unkind to her 'poor papa.' So poor papa made away with our little stock of money in no time; and as I felt that it was now becoming necessary to look about for something, I ran up to London, and tried to get a situation as a clerk in a merchant's office, or as accountant, or book-keeper, or something of that kind. But I suppose there was the stamp of a heavy dragoon about me, for do what I would I couldn't get anybody to believe in my capacity; and tired out, and down-hearted, I returned to my darling, to find her nursing a son and heir to his father's poverty. Poor little girl, she was very low-spirited; and when I told her that my London expedition had failed, she fairly broke down, and burst in to a storm of sobs and lamentations, telling me that I ought not to have married her if I could give her nothing but poverty and misery; and that I had done her a cruel wrong in making her my wife. By heaven! Miss Morley, her tears and reproaches drove me almost mad; and I flew into a rage with her, myself, her father, the world, and everybody in it, and then rail out of the house. I walked about the streets all that day, half out of my mind, and with a strong inclination to throw myself into the sea, so as to leave my poor girl free to make a better match. 'If I drown myself, her father must support her,' I thought; 'the old hypocrite could never refuse her a shelter; but while I live she has no claim on him.' I went down to a rickety old wooden pier, meaning to wait there till it was dark, and then drop quietly over the end of it into the water; but while I sat there smoking my pipe, and staring vacantly at the sea-gulls, two men came down, and one of them began to talk of the Australian gold-diggings, and the great things that were to be done there. It appeared that he was going to sail in a day or two, and he was trying to persuade his companion to join him in the expedition. 

"I listened to these men for upward of an hour, following them up and down the pier, with my pipe in my mouth, and hearing all their talk. After this I fell into conversation with them myself, and ascertained that there was a vessel going to leave Liverpool in three days, by which vessel one of the men was going out. This man gave me all the information I required, and told me, moreover, that a stalwart young fellow, such as I was, could hardly fail to do well in the diggings. The thought flashed upon me so suddenly, that I grew hot and red in the face, and trembled in every limb with excitement. This was better than the water, at any rate. Suppose I stole away from my darling, leaving her safe under her father's roof, and went and made a fortune in the new world, and came back in a twelvemonth to throw it into her lap; for I was so sanguine in those days that I counted on making my fortune in a year or so. I thanked the man for his information, and late at night strolled homeward. It was bitter winter weather, but I had been too full of passion to feel cold, and I walked through the quiet streets, with the snow drifting in my face, and a desperate hopefulness in my heart. The old man was sitting drinking brandy-and-water in the little dining-room; and my wife was up-stairs, sleeping peacefully, with the baby on her breast. I sat down and wrote a few brief lines, which told her that I never had loved her better than now, when I seemed to desert her; that I was going to try my fortune in the new world, and that if I succeeded I should come back to bring her plenty and happiness; but that if I failed I should never look upon her face again. I divided the remainder of our money -- something over forty pounds -- into two equal portions, leaving one for her, and putting the other in my pocket. I knelt down and prayed for my wife and child, with my head upon the white counterpane that covered them. I wasn't much of a praying man at ordinary times, but God knows _that_ was a heartfelt prayer. I kissed her once, and the baby once, and then crept out of the room. The dining-room door was open, and the old man was nodding over his paper. He looked up as he heard my step in the passage, and asked me where I was going. 'To have a smoke in the street,' I answered; and as this was a common habit of mine he believed me. Three nights after I was out at sea, bound for Melbourne -- a steerage passenger, with a digger's tools for my baggage, and about seven shillings in my pocket
And you succeeded
Not till I had long despaired of success; not until poverty and I had become such old companions and bed-fellows, that looking back at my past life, I wondered whether that dashing, reckless, extravagant, luxurious, champagne-drinking dragoon could have really been the same man who sat on the damp ground gnawing a moldy crust in the wilds of the new world. I clung to the memory of my darling, and the trust that I had in her love and truth was the one keystone that kept the fabric of my past life together -- the one star that lit the thick black darkness of the future. I was hail-fellow-well-met with bad men; I was in the center of riot, drunkenness, and debauchery; but the purifying influence of my love kept me safe from all. Thin and gaunt, the half-starved shadow of what I once had been, I saw myself one day in a broken bit of looking-glass, and was frightened by my own face. But I toiled on through all; through disappointment and despair, rheumatism, fever, starvation; at the very gates of death, I toiled on steadily to the end; and in the end I conquered
How brave you were
Brave
wasn't I working for my darling? Through all the dreary time of that probation, her pretty white hand seemed beckoning me onward to a happy future! Why, I have seen her under my wretched canvas tent sitting by my side, with her boy in her arms, as plainly as I had ever seen her in the one happy year of our wedded life. At last, one dreary foggy morning, just three months ago, with a drizzling rain wetting me to the skin, up to my neck in clay and mire, half-starved, enfeebled by fever, stiff with rheumatism, a monster nugget turned up under my spade, and I was in one minute the richest man in Australia. I fell down on the wet clay, with my lump of gold in the bosom of my shirt, and, for the first time in my life, cried like a child. I traveled post-haste to Sydney, realized my price, which was worth upward of L20,000, and a fortnight afterward took my passage for England in this vessel; and in ten days -- in ten days I shall see my darling
But in all that time did you never write to your wife
Never, till the night before I left Sydney. I could not write when everything looked so black. I could not write and tell her that I was fighting hard with despair and death. I waited for better fortune, and when that came I wrote telling her that I should be in England almost as soon as my letter, and giving her an address at a coffee-house in London where she could write to me, telling me where to find her, though she is hardly likely to have left her father's house
Miss Morley, if, when I get to England, I hear that anything has happened to my wife, I shall fall down dead
My dear Mr. Talboys, why do you think of these things? God is very good to us; He will not afflict us beyond our power of endurance. I see all things, perhaps, in a melancholy light; for the long monotony of my life has given me too much time to think over my troubles
And my life has been all action, privation, toil, alternate hope and despair; I have had no time to think upon the chances of anything happening to my darling. What a blind, reckless fool I have been! Three years and a half and not one line -- one word from her, or from any mortal creature who knows her. Heaven above! what may not have happened
I swear to you, Miss Morley
that till you spoke to me to-night, I never felt one shadow of fear, and now I have that sick, sinking dread at my heart which you talked of an hour ago. Let me alone, please, to get over it my own way
I have been praying
praying for my darling
Why, Phoebe
you came upon me so still and sudden, that I thought you was an evil spirit. I've come across through the fields, and come in here at the gate agen the moat, and I was taking a rest before I came up to the house to ask if you was come back
I can see the well from my bedroom window, Luke
I saw you sitting here, and came down to have a chat; it's better talking out here than in the house, where there's always somebody listening
Are you glad to see me, Luke
Of course I'm glad, lass
You don't seem much as if you were glad
you might look at me, Luke, and tell me if you think my journey has improved me
It ain't put any color into your cheeks, my girl
you're every bit as white as you was when you went away
But they say traveling makes people genteel, Luke. I've been on the Continent with my lady, through all manner of curious places; and you know, when I was a child, Squire Horton's daughters taught me to speak a little French, and I found it so nice to be able to talk to the people abroad
Genteel
who wants you to be genteel, I wonder? Not me, for one; when you're my wife you won't have overmuch time for gentility, my girl. French, too! Dang me, Phoebe, I suppose when we've saved money enough between us to buy a bit of a farm, you'll be _parleyvooing_ to the cows
What a fine thing it is for Miss Graham that was, to travel with her maid and her courier, and her chariot and four, and a husband that thinks there isn't one spot upon all the earth that's good enough for her to set her foot upon
Ay, it is a fine thing, Phoebe, to have lots of money
and I hope you'll be warned by that, my lass, to save up your wages agin we get married
Why, what was she in Mr. Dawson's house only three months ago
What was she but a servant like me? Taking wages and working for them us hard, or harder, than I did. You should have seen her shabby clothes, Luke -- worn and patched, and darned and turned and twisted, yet always looking nice upon her, somehow. She gives me more as lady's-maid here than ever she got from Mr. Dawson then. Why, I've seen her come out of the parlor with a few sovereigns and a little silver in her hand, that master had just given her for her quarter's salary; and now look at her
Never you mind her
take care of yourself, Phoebe; that's all you've got to do. What should you say to a public-house for you and me, by-and-by, my girl? There's a deal of money to be made out of a public-house
You should see the inside of the house, Luke
it's a tumbledown looking place enough outside; but you should see my lady's rooms -- all pictures and gilding, and great looking-glasses that stretch from the ceiling to the floor. Painted ceilings, too, that cost hundreds of pounds, the housekeeper told her, and all done for her
She's a lucky one
You should have seen her while we were abroad, with a crowd of gentlemen hanging about her; Sir Michael not jealous of them, only proud to see her so much admired. You should have heard her laugh and talk with them; throwing all their compliments and fine speeches back at them, as it were, as if they had been pelting her with roses. She set everybody mad about her, wherever she went. Her singing, her playing, her painting, her dancing, her beautiful smile, and sunshiny ringlets! She was always the talk of a place, as long as we stayed in it
Is she at home to-night
No; she has gone out with Sir Michael to a dinner party at the Beeches. They've seven or eight miles to drive, and they won't be back till after eleven
Then I'll tell you what, Phoebe, if the inside of the house is so mighty fine, I should like to have a look at it
You shall, then. Mrs. Barton, the housekeeper, knows you by sight, and she can't object to my showing you some of the best rooms
It's a mortal dull place, Phoebe
I've heard tell of a murder that was done here in old times
There are murders enough in these times, as to that, Luke
It's a rare fine place
and must have cost a heap of money
Look at the pictures on the walls
I've heard that those alone are worth a fortune. This is the entrance to my lady's apartments, Miss Graham that was
I've got all these things to put away before my lady comes home, Luke; you might sit down here while I do it, I shan't be long
I wish I could show you the jewels, Luke
but I can't, for she always keeps the keys herself; that's the case on the dressing-table there
What, _that
Why, that's big enough to hold every bit of clothes I've got
And it's as full as it can be of diamonds, rubies, pearls and emeralds
I declare
my lady has left her keys in her pocket for once in a way; I can show you the jewelry, if you like, Luke
Well, I may as well have a look at it, my girl
Put it down, Luke! Put it down directly
how can you speak about such things
What's this
Look ye here
Why, I never saw this before
I wonder what there is in it
So this is what my lady hides in the secret drawer
It's queer rubbish to keep in such a place
You will bear me witness where I found this
Why, Phoebe, you're not going to be such a fool as to take that
I'd rather have this than the diamond bracelet you would have liked to take
you shall have the public house, Luke
I always said the old buffer would marry
Be so good as to look where you're going, my friend
you might give a man warning before you throw him down and trample upon him
Bob
I only touched British ground after dark last night, and to think that I should meet you this morning
I've seen you somewhere before, my bearded friend
but I'll be hanged if I can remember when or where
What
You don't mean to say that you've forgotten George Talboys
_No I have not
and now, George tell us all about it
If you'll believe me, I've only just left their counting-house
I'll go back with you, and we'll settle that matter in five minutes
I shall take a villa on the banks of the Thames, Bob
for the little wife and myself; and we'll have a yacht, Bob, old boy, and you shall lie on the deck and smoke, while my pretty one plays her guitar and sings songs to us. She's for all the world like one of those what's-its-names, who got poor old Ulysses into trouble
Talboys
perhaps you didn't hear the name distinctly -- T, A, L, B, O, Y, S. Go and look again, there _must_ be a letter
On the 24th inst., at Ventnor, Isle of Wight, Helen Talboys, aged 22
Helen Talboys, aged 22
You don't mind the pipe, do you, George
No
Do the birds annoy you, George? Shall I take them out of the room
No; I like to hear them sing
Take this, George
it will do your head good
Bob
where are we
In my chambers, dear boy, in the Temple. You have no lodgings of your own, so you may as well stay with me while you're in town
That newspaper this morning, Bob; what was it
Never mind just now, old boy; drink some tea
Yes, yes
I remember all about it. Helen! my Helen! my wife, my darling, my only love! Dead, dead
George
you must remember that the person whose name you saw in the paper may not be your wife. There may have been some other Helen Talboys
No, no
the age corresponds with hers, and Talboys is such an uncommon name
It may be a misprint for Talbot
No, no, no; my wife is dead
Where are you going
To Ventnor, to see her grave
Not to-night, George, not to-night. I will go with you myself by the first train to-morrow
What are we to do, George
We have no clew to finding the people you want to see
Had we not better ask at one of the hotels about a Mrs. Talboys, George
Her father's name was Maldon
he could never have sent her here to die alone
Look
Her portrait used to hang by the side of mine
I wonder what they have done with it
I should like to see the woman of the house; I should like to ask her about
Yes, he is the lady's husband
What
him as deserted her so cruel, and left her with her pretty boy upon her poor old father's hands, which Captain Maldon has told me often, with the tears in his poor eyes
I did not desert her
Did she speak of me
did she speak of me -- at -- at the last
No, she went off as quiet as a lamb. She said very little from the first; but the last day she knew nobody, not even her little boy, nor her poor old father, who took on awful. Once she went off wild-like, talking about her mother, and about the cruel shame it was to leave her to die in a strange place, till it was quite pitiful to hear her
Her mother died when she was quite a child
To think that she should remember her and speak of her, but never once of me
I cut this off when she lay in her coffin
poor dear
Yes
this is the dear hair that I have kissed so often when her head lay upon my shoulder. But it always had a rippling wave in it then, and now it seems smooth and straight
It changes in illness
If you'd like to see where they have laid her, Mr. Talboys, my little boy shall show you the way to the churchyard
Mr. Maldon
Great Heaven
don't you know me
My dear boy
I did not; for the first moment I did not. That beard makes such a difference. You find the beard makes a great difference, do you not, sir
Great heavens
is this the way you welcome me? I come to England to find my wife dead within a week of my touching land, and you begin to chatter to me about my beard -- you, her father
True! true
a sad shock, a sad shock, my dear George. If you'd only been here a week earlier
If I had
I scarcely think that I would have let her die. I would have disputed for her with death. I would! I would! Oh God! why did not the _Argus_ go down with every soul on board her before I came to see this day
I've a strong notion that that old man didn't treat his daughter too well
He seems, for some reason or other, to be half afraid of George
Come home, grandpa, come home
I'm tired
My darling! my darling
I am your father, come across the sea to find you. Will you love me
I don't know you
I love grandpa and Mrs. Monks at Southampton
Georgey has a temper of his own, sir
He has been spoiled
The boy seems fond of you, Mr. Maldon
Yes, yes
yes. Georgey is very fond of his grandfather
Then he had better stop with you. The interest of my money will be about six hundred a year. You can draw a hundred of that for Georgey's education, leaving the rest to accumulate till he is of age. My friend here will be trustee, and if he will undertake the charge, I will appoint him guardian to the boy, allowing him for the present to remain under your care
But why not take care of him yourself, George
Because I shall sail in the very next vessel that leaves Liverpool for Australia. I shall be better in the diggings or the backwoods than ever I could be here. I'm broken for a civilized life from this hour, Bob
My poor boy, I think you're right
I really think you're right. The change, the wild life, the -- the
You're in a great hurry to get rid of your son-in-law, I think, Mr. Maldon
Get rid of him, dear boy! Oh, no, no! But for his own sake, my dear sir, for his own sake, you know
I think for his own sake he'd much better stay in England and look after his son
But I tell you I can't
every inch of this accursed ground is hateful to me -- I want to run out of it as I would out of a graveyard. I'll go back to town to-night, get that business about the money settled early to-morrow morning, and start for Liverpool without a moment's delay. I shall be better when I've put half the world between me and her grave
Were they poor
were they pinched for money while she was ill
Oh, no
though the captain dresses shabby, he has always plenty of sovereigns in his purse. The poor lady wanted for nothing
You did not introduce me to your friend, by-the-bye, my dear boy
To think
that two nights ago, at this time, I was steaming into Liverpool, full of the hope of clasping her to my heart, and to-night I am going away from her grave
It's a great responsibility
I, guardian to anybody or anything! I, who never in my life could take care of myself
I trust in your noble heart, Bob
I know you will take care of my poor orphan boy, and see that he is well used by his grandfather. I shall only draw enough from Georgey's fortune to take me back to Sydney, and then begin my old work again
MY DEAR ROBERT -- How cruel of you to run away to that horrid St. Petersburg before the hunting season! I have heard that people lose their noses in that disagreeable climate, and as yours is rather a long one, I should advise you to return before the very severe weather sets in. What sort of person is this Mr. Talboys? If he is very agreeable you may bring him to the Court as soon as you return from your travels. Lady Audley tells me to request you to secure her a set of sables. You are not to consider the price, but to be sure that they are the handsomest that can be obtained. Papa is perfectly absurd about his new wife, and she and I cannot get on together at all; not that she is, disagreeable to me, for, as far as that goes, she makes herself agreeable to every one; but she is so irretrievably childish and silly. "Believe me to be, my dear Robert. 

"Your affectionate cousin, 

"ALICIA AUDLEY
Do you know, Bob
that when some of our fellows were wounded in India, they came home, bringing bullets inside them. They did not talk of them, and they were stout and hearty, and looked as well, perhaps, as you or I; but every change in the weather, however slight, every variation of the atmosphere, however trifling, brought back the old agony of their wounds as sharp as ever they had felt it on the battle-field. I've had my wound, Bob; I carry the bullet still, and I shall carry it into my coffin
What can I do
If I take him away from his grandfather, I shall break his heart; if I let him remain, he will grow up a stranger to me, and care more for that drunken old hypocrite than for his own father. But then, what could an ignorant, heavy dragoon like me do with such a child? What could I teach him, except to smoke cigars and idle around all day with his hands in his pockets
I shall write to my cousin Alicia to-day, George
Do you know that the day after to-morrow is the 1st of September? I shall write and tell her that we will both run down to the Court for a week's shooting
No, no, Bob; go by yourself; they don't want me, and I'd rather
Bury yourself in Figtree Court, with no company but my dogs and canaries! No, George, you shall do nothing of the kind
But I don't care for shooting
And do you suppose _I_ care for it
Why, man, I don't know a partridge from a pigeon, and it might be the 1st of April, instead of the 1st of September, for aught I care. I never hurt a bird in my life, but I have hurt my own shoulder with the weight of my gun. I only go down to Essex for the change of air, the good dinners, and the sight of my uncle's honest, handsome face. Besides, this time I've another inducement, as I want to see this fair-haired paragon -- my new aunt. You'll go with me, George
Yes, if you really wish it
There are seventeen spare bed-rooms
but for all that, my dear Robert, you can't come; for my lady has taken it into her silly head that she is too ill to entertain visitors (there is no more the matter with her than there is with me), and she cannot have gentlemen (great, rough men, she says) in the house. Please apologize to your friend Mr. Talboys, and tell him that papa expects to see you both in the hunting season
My lady's airs and graces shan't keep us out of Essex for all that
I'll tell you what we'll do, George: there's a glorious inn at Audley, and plenty of fishing in the neighborhood; we'll go there and have a week's sport. Fishing is much better than shooting; you've only to lie on a bank and stare at your line; I don't find that you often catch anything, but it's very pleasant
Poor little Alicia
it's rather hard to treat her letter so cavalierly -- I'll keep it
Put on your hat, George
they don't dine at the Court till seven; we shall have time to stroll down and see the old place and its inhabitants
I beg your pardon, Mr. Audley
but if you want to see your uncle, you'll lose your time by going to the Court just now. Sir Michael and my lady and Miss Alicia have all gone to the races up at Chorley, and they won't be back till nigh upon eight o'clock, most likely. They must pass by here to go home
Why, it's my uncle
I'll run down and speak to him
Why, Robert
this is a surprise
I have not come to intrude upon you at the Court, my dear uncle
Essex is my native county, you know, and about this time of year I generally have a touch of homesickness; so George and I have come down to the inn for two or three day's fishing
George -- George who
George Talboys
What, has he come
I'm so glad; for I'm dying to see this handsome young widower
Are you, Alicia
Then egad, I'll run and fetch him, and introduce you to him at once
Never mind to-night, Bob
My wife is a little tired after our long day's pleasure. Bring your friend to dinner to-morrow, and then he and Alicia can make each other's acquaintance. Come round and speak to Lady Audley, and then we'll drive home
You will come and dine with us to-morrow, and bring your interesting friend
It's a wonder she didn't treat you to her never-ending laugh
but I dare say she reserves that for your delectation to-morrow. I suppose _you_ are fascinated as well as everybody else
She is a lovely creature, certainly
Oh, of course! Now, she is the first woman of whom I ever heard you say a civil word, Robert Audley. I'm sorry to find you can only admire wax dolls
As to his ever falling in love
the idea is preposterous. If all the divinities on earth were ranged before him, waiting for his sultanship to throw the handkerchief, he would only lift his eyebrows to the middle of his forehead, and tell them to scramble for it
She's the prettiest little creature you ever saw in your life, George
Such blue eyes, such ringlets, such a ravishing smile, such a fairy-like bonnet -- all of a-tremble with heart's-ease and dewy spangles, shining out of a cloud of gauze. George Talboys, I feel like the hero of a French novel: I am falling in love with my aunt
I am tired to death, though, Phoebe
I am afraid I must look a perfect fright, after a day in the hot sun
You are a little pale, my lady
but you look as pretty as ever
That's right, Phoebe
Do you know, Phoebe, I have heard some people say that you and I are alike
I have heard them say so, too, my lady
but they must be very stupid to say it, for your ladyship is a beauty, and I am a poor, plain creature
Not at all, Phoebe
you _are_ like me, and your features are very nice; it is only color that you want. My hair is pale yellow shot with gold, and yours is drab; my eyebrows and eyelashes are dark brown, and yours are almost -- I scarcely like to say it, but they're almost white, my dear Phoebe. Your complexion is sallow, and mine is pink and rosy. Why, with a bottle of hair-dye, such as we see advertised in the papers, and a pot of rouge, you'd be as good-looking as I, any day, Phoebe
Go on brushing my hair, Phoebe
I quite enjoy a chat with you
Phoebe Marks
I want you to do me a favor
Yes, my lady
I want you to go to London by the first train to-morrow morning to execute a little commission for me. You may take a day's holiday afterward, as I know you have friends in town; and I shall give you a five-pound note if you do what I want, and keep your own counsel about it
Yes, my lady
See that that door is securely shut, and come and sit on this stool at my feet
And now listen, Phoebe. What I want you to do is very simple
Kiss me, Phoebe
I hear Sir Michael's step in the anteroom; you will meet him as you go out, and you may as well tell him that you are going up by the first train to-morrow morning to get my dress from Madam Frederick for the dinner at Morton Abbey
A telegraphic message
What can be the matter
Read it, my darling
and do not be alarmed; it may be nothing of any importance
Poor soul! she always meant to leave me her money
She has never heard of the change in my fortunes. Dear Sir Michael, I must go to her
To be sure you must, dearest. If she was kind to my poor girl in her adversity, she has a claim upon her prosperity that shall never be forgotten. Put on your bonnet, Lucy; we shall be in time to catch the express
You will go with me
Of course, my darling. Do you suppose I would let you go alone
I was sure you would go with me
Does your friend send any address
No; but she always lived at Crescent Villa, West Brompton; and no doubt she lives there still
Robert, please will you marry me
Figtree Court is not gay in the long vacation
but I think, upon the whole, it's better than this; at any rate, it's near a tobacconist's
I shall be glad to get back, Bob
for I want to take a run down to Southampton; I haven't seen the little one for upward of a month
the little one
I'm not a romantic man, Bob
and I never read a line of poetry in my life that was any more to me than so many words and so much jingle; but a feeling has come over me, since my wife's death, that I am like a man standing upon a long, low shore, with hideous cliffs frowning down upon him from behind, and the rising tide crawling slowly but surely about his feet. It seems to grow nearer and nearer every day, that black, pitiless tide; not rushing upon me with a great noise and a mighty impetus, but crawling, creeping, stealing, gliding toward me, ready to close in above my head when I am least prepared for the end
George Talboys, I could understand this if you had been eating heavy suppers. Cold pork, now, especially if underdone, might produce this sort of thing. You want change of air, my dear boy; you want the refreshing breezes of Figtree Court, and the soothing air of Fleet street. Or, stay
I have it! You've been smoking our friend the landlord's cigars; that accounts for everything
You are very soon tired of Audley, Robert
but of course you have no friends here, except your relations at the Court; while in London, no doubt, you have the most delightful society and
I get good tobacco
Audley is the dearest old place, but when a man has to smoke dried cabbage leaves, you know, Alicia
Then you are really going to-morrow morning
Positively -- by the express train that leaves at 10.50
Then Lady Audley will lose an introduction to Mr. Talboys, and Mr. Talboys will lose the chance of seeing the prettiest woman in Essex
Really
The prettiest woman in Essex would have a poor chance of getting much admiration out of my friend, George Talboys
His heart is at Southampton, where he has a curly-headed little urchin, about as high as his knee, who calls him 'the big gentleman,' and asks him for sugar-plums
I am going to write to my step-mother by to-night's post
She asked me particularly in her letter how long you were going to stop, and whether there was any chance of her being back in time to receive you
She says in her postcript, 'Be sure you answer my question about Mr. Audley and his friend, you volatile, forgetful Alicia
What a pretty hand she writes
Yes, it is pretty, is it not? Look at it, Robert
Presently, Atalanta, presently. Give me back my note, Bob
It is the prettiest, most coquettish little hand I ever saw. Do you know, Alicia, I have no great belief in those fellows who ask you for thirteen postage stamps, and offer to tell you what you have never been able to find out yourself; but upon my word I think that if I had never seen your aunt, I should know what she was like by this slip of paper. Yes, here it all is -- the feathery, gold-shot, flaxen curls, the penciled eyebrows, the tiny, straight nose, the winning, childish smile; all to be guessed in these few graceful up-strokes and down-strokes. George, look here
Nevermind
Give me the letter, and let me go; it's past eight, and I must answer it by to-night's post. Come, Atalanta! Good-by, Robert -- good-by, Mr. Talboys. A pleasant journey to town
To have only one cousin in the world
my nearest relation after papa, and for him to care about as much for me as he would for a dog
It's nothing but the cigars, George
Get me out of the place without my seeing the landlord; for if that man and I meet there will be bloodshed
It will kill a couple of hours, you know, George: and it seems a great pity to drag you away from Audley without having shown you the old place, which, I give you my honor, is very well worth seeing
It ought to be an avenue in a churchyard
How peacefully the dead might sleep under this somber shade! I wish the churchyard at Ventnor was like this
We want to see the house before it is dark, Alicia
Then we must be quick
Come
After we have been in the drawing-room, I should like to show these gentlemen Lady Audley's rooms. Are they in good order, Phoebe
Yes, miss; but the door of the anteroom is locked, and I fancy that my lady has taken the key to London
Taken the key! Impossible
Indeed, miss, I think she has. I cannot find it, and it always used to be in the door
I declare
that is not at all unlike my lady to have taken this silly freak into her head. I dare say she was afraid we should go into her rooms, and pry about among her pretty dresses, and meddle with her jewelry. It is very provoking, for the best pictures in the house are in that antechamber. There is her own portrait, too, unfinished but wonderfully like
Her portrait
I would give anything to see it, for I have only an imperfect notion of her face. Is there no other way of getting into the room, Alicia
Another way
Yes; is there any door, leading through some of the other rooms, by which we can contrive to get into hers
That fellow with the battle-ax looks as if he wanted to split George's head open
Come out of this room, Alicia
I believe it's damp, or else haunted. Indeed, I believe all ghosts to be the result of damp or dyspepsia. You sleep in a damp bed -- you awake suddenly in the dead of the night with a cold shiver, and see an old lady in the court costume of George the First's time, sitting at the foot of the bed. The old lady's indigestion, and the cold shiver is a damp sheet
Isn't there a secret passage, or an old oak chest, or something of that kind, somewhere about the place, Alicia
To be sure
of course. Why didn't I think of it before? How stupid of me, to be sure
Why stupid
Because, if you don't mind crawling upon your hands and knees, you can see my lady's apartments, for that passage communicates with her dressing-room. She doesn't know of it herself, I believe. How astonished she'd be if some black-visored burglar, with a dark-lantern, were to rise through the floor some night as she sat before her looking-glass, having her hair dressed for a party
Shall we try the secret passage, George
Yes, if you wish it
Now listen to me
You must let yourself down by the hands into the passage, which is about four feet high; stoop your head, walk straight along it till you come to a sharp turn which will take you to the left, and at the extreme end of it you will find a short ladder below a trap-door like this, which you will have to unbolt; that door opens into the flooring of my lady's dressing-room, which is only covered with a square Persian carpet that you can easily manage to raise. You understand me
Perfectly
Then take the light; Mr. Talboys will follow you. I give you twenty minutes for your inspection of the paintings -- that is, about a minute apiece -- and at the end of that time I shall expect to see you return
There are our friend's eternal white horses
Nicholas Poussin -- Salvator -- ha -- hum! Now for the portrait
George Talboys
we have between us only one wax candle, a very inadequate light with which to look at a painting. Let me, therefore, request that you will suffer us to look at it one at a time; if there is one thing more disagreeable than another, it is to have a person dodging behind your back and peering over your shoulder, when you're trying to see what a picture's made of
Now, then, for your turn, Talboys
It's an extraordinary picture
Why, George, I thought you had gone to sleep
I had almost
You've caught a cold from standing in that damp tapestried room. Mark my words, George Talboys, you've caught a cold; you're as hoarse as a raven. But come along
Well
We managed it capitally. But I don't like the portrait; there's something odd about it
There is
I've a strange fancy on that point. I think that sometimes a painter is in a manner inspired, and is able to see, through the normal expression of the face, another expression that is equally a part of it, though not to be perceived by common eyes. We have never seen my lady look as she does in that picture; but I think that she _could_ look so
Alicia
don't be German
But, Robert
Don't be German, Alicia, if you love me. The picture is -- the picture: and my lady is -- my lady. That's my way of taking things, and I'm not metaphysical; don't unsettle me
Who is that
Is it the gardener
No, my dear aunt
it is your most dutiful nephew
I think the storm will hold off to-night
but we shall certainly have it tomorrow
George
are you frightened of the lightning
No
But, dear boy, some of the most courageous men have been frightened of it. It is scarcely to be called a fear: it is constitutional. I am sure you are frightened of it
No, I am not
But, George, if you could see yourself, white and haggard, with your great hollow eyes staring out at the sky as if they were fixed upon a ghost. I tell you I know that you are frightened
And I tell you that I am not
George Talboys, you are not only afraid of the lightning, but you are savage with yourself for being afraid, and with me for telling you of your fear
Robert Audley, if you say another word to me, I shall knock you down
Are you going to bed, George
Yes
But you have no candle
I don't want one
But look at your clothes, man! Do you see the wet streaming down your coat-sleeves? What on earth made you go out upon such a night
I am tired, and want to go to bed -- don't bother me
You'll take some hot brandy-and-water, George
Let me alone, Robert Audley, and keep clear of me if you can
He was irritated at my noticing his terror of the lightning
Forgive me, Bob
for my surly temper of last night. You were quite correct in your assertion; the thunderstorm _did_ upset me. It always had the same effect upon me in my youth
Poor old boy! Shall we go up by the express, or shall we stop here and dine with my uncle to-night
To tell the truth, Bob, I would rather do neither. It's a glorious morning. Suppose we stroll about all day, take another turn with the rod and line, and go up to town by the train that leaves here at 6.15 in the evening
My pretty one
my darling, what happiness to see you your own merry self again! Do you know, Lucy, that once last night, when you looked out through the dark-green bed-curtains, with your poor, white face, and the purple rims round your hollow eyes, I had almost a difficulty to recognize my little wife in that terrified, agonized-looking creature, crying out about the storm. Thank God for the morning sun, which has brought back the rosy cheeks and bright smile! I hope to Heaven, Lucy, I shall never again see you look as you did last night
Frightened of everything and everybody but my dear, noble, handsome husband
And they had the audacity to look at my picture, Alicia
I found the baize thrown on the ground, and a great man's glove on the carpet. Look
I shall go up to the Sun, and ask those boys to dinner
Send that horrid animal away, Alicia
The brute knows that I am frightened of him, and takes advantage of my terror. And yet they call the creatures generous and noble-hearted! Bah, Caesar! I hate you, and you hate me; and if you met me in the dark in some narrow passage you would fly at my throat and strangle me, wouldn't you
Do you know, Lady Audley, that Mr. Talboys, the young widower, has been here asking for Sir Michael and you
I thought they were coming to dinner
Surely we shall have enough of them then
Take that litter away
What have you been doing all this morning
Not wasting your time, I hope
No, my lady, I have been altering the blue dress. It is rather dark on this side of the house, so I took it up to my own room, and worked at the window
Phoebe Marks
you are a good, industrious girl, and while I live and am prosperous, you shall never want a firm friend or a twenty-pound note
Why, the selfish beggar must have gone home to his dinner
and yet that isn't much like him, for he seldom remembers even his meals unless I jog his memory
This is lively
A cold dinner, and nobody to eat it with
As fine a pair of ducks, Mr. Audley, as ever you clapped eyes on, but burnt up to a cinder, along of being kep' hot
Never mind the ducks
where's Mr. Talboys
He ain't been in, sir, since you went out together this morning
What
Why, in heaven's name, what has the man done with himself
Of all the extraordinary things that ever happened to me in the whole course of my life
this is the most miraculous
I shall go and look for him
I forgot to tell you, Mr. Audley, as how your uncle called here five minutes after you was gone, and left a message, asking of you and the other gentleman to go down to dinner at the Court
Then I shouldn't wonder
if George Talboys has gone down to the Court to call upon my uncle. It isn't like him, but it's just possible that he has done it
And not since
No, not since
Why, what can have become of the man
From two till six -- four good hours -- and no signs of him
I haven't walked fast since I was at Eton
and the worst of it is, that I haven't the most remote idea where I am going
I have it
the railway station
Private
Do you remember the gentleman that came down to Audley with me, Smithers
Well, to tell you the real truth, Mr. Audley, I can't say that I do. You came by the four o'clock, if you remember, and there's always a good many passengers by that train
You don't remember him, then
Not to my knowledge, sir
That's provoking! I want to know, Smithers, whether he has taken a ticket for London since two o'clock to-day. He's a tall, broad-chested young fellow, with a big brown beard. You couldn't well mistake him
There was four or five gentlemen as took tickets for the 3.30 up
Four or five gentlemen! But did either of them answer to the description of my friend
Well, I think one of them had a beard, sir
A dark-brown beard
Well, I don't know, but it was brownish-like
Was he dressed in gray
I believe it was gray; a great many gents wear gray. He asked for the ticket sharp and short-like, and when he'd got it walked straight out onto the platform whistling
That's George
Thank you, Smithers; I needn't trouble you any more. It's as clear as daylight
he's got one of his gloomy fits on him, and he's gone back to London without saying a word about it. I'll leave Audley myself to-morrow morning; and for to-night -- why, I may as well go down to the Court and make the acquaintance of my uncle's young wife. They don't dine till seven; if I get back across the fields I shall be in time. Bob -- otherwise Robert Audley -- this sort of thing will never do; you are falling over head and ears in love with your aunt
Thank you so much for the sables
thank you for those beautiful sables. How good it was of you to get them for me
Would you believe it, Sir Michael
That foolish chum of mine has gone back to London leaving me in the lurch
Mr. George Talboys returned to town
What a dreadful catastrophe
since Pythias, in the person of Mr. Robert Audley, cannot exist for half an hour without Damon, commonly known as George Talboys
He's a very good fellow
and to tell the honest truth, I'm rather uneasy about him
Uneasy about him
I'll tell you why, Lady Audley
George had a bitter blow a year ago in the death of his wife. He has never got over that trouble. He takes life pretty quietly -- almost as quietly as I do -- but he often talks very strangely, and I sometimes think that one day this grief will get the better of him, and he will do something rash
Dear me
this is very strange. I did not think men were capable of these deep and lasting affections. I thought that one pretty face was as good as another pretty face to them; and that when number one with blue eyes and fair hair died, they had only to look out for number two, with dark eyes and black hair, by way of variety
George Talboys is not one of those men. I firmly believe that his wife's death broke his heart
How sad
It seems almost cruel of Mrs. Talboys to die, and grieve her poor husband so much
Alicia was right, she is childish
I could carve a leg of mutton at Mr. Dawson's
but a leg of mutton is so easy, and then I used to stand up
I am so glad to see my poor little woman in her usual good spirits once more
She was very down-hearted yesterday at a disappointment she met with in London
A disappointment
Yes, Mr. Audley, a very cruel one
I received the other morning a telegraphic message from my dear old friend and school-mistress, telling me that she was dying, and that if I wanted to see her again, I must hasten to her immediately. The telegraphic dispatch contained no address, and of course, from that very circumstance, I imagined that she must be living in the house in which I left her three years ago. Sir Michael and I hurried up to town immediately, and drove straight to the old address. The house was occupied by strange people, who could give me no tidings of my friend. It is in a retired place, where there are very few tradespeople about. Sir Michael made inquiries at the few shops there are, but, after taking an immense deal of trouble, could discover nothing whatever likely to lead to the information we wanted. I have no friends in London, and had therefore no one to assist me except my dear, generous husband, who did all in his power, but in vain, to find my friend's new residence
It was very foolish not to send the address in the telegraphic message
When people are dying it is not so easy to think of all these things
I wish I'd never felt any friendliness for the fellow
I feel like a man who has an only son whose life has gone wrong with him. I wish to Heaven I could give him back his wife, and send him down to Ventnor to finish his days in peace
George Talboys
Upon my word
you make me quite uncomfortable by the way in which you talk of Mr. Talboys. One would think that something extraordinary had happened to him
God forbid! But I cannot help feeling uneasy about him
You have hurt your arm, Lady Audley
It is nothing
I am unfortunate in having a skin which the slightest touch bruises
What is it, Lucy
and how did it happen
How foolish you all are to trouble yourselves about anything so absurd
I am rather absent in mind, and amused myself a few days ago by tying a piece of ribbon around my arm so tightly, that it left a bruise when I removed it
Hum
My lady tells little childish white lies; the bruise is of a more recent date than a few days ago; the skin has only just begun to change color
Hold the candle, Robert
and let us look at this poor little arm
I am sure my lady must tell white lies
for I can't believe the story of the ribbon
If I don't find him there I shall go to Southampton
and if I don't find him there
What then
I shall think that something strange has happened
To think
that it is possible to care so much for a fellow! But come what may, I'll go up to town after him the first thing to-morrow morning; and, sooner than be balked in finding him, I'll go to the very end of the world
He may have slept here last night, and started for Southampton early this morning
Mrs. Maloney has been here, very likely, to make everything tidy after him
Had anything happened to the poor, dear gentleman
I need scarcely ask the question that I come to ask
I was in hopes I should have found your son-in-law here
What! you knew that he was coming to Southampton
Knew that he was coming
He _is_ here, then
No, he is not here now; but he has been here
When
Late last night; he came by the mail
And left again immediately
He stayed little better than an hour
Good Heaven
what useless anxiety that man has given me! What can be the meaning of all this
You knew nothing of his intention, then
Of what intention
I mean of his determination to go to Australia
I know that it was always in his mind more or less, but not more just now than usual
He sails to-night from Liverpool. He came here at one o'clock this morning to have a look at the boy, he said, before he left England, perhaps never to return. He told me he was sick of the world, and that the rough life out there was the only thing to suit him. He stayed an hour, kissed the boy without awaking him, and left Southampton by the mail that starts at a quarter-past two
What can be the meaning of all this
What could be his motive for leaving England in this manner, without a word to me, his most intimate friend -- without even a change of clothes; for he has left everything at my chambers? It is the most extraordinary proceeding
Do you know, Mr. Audley
I sometimes fancy that Helen's death had a strange effect upon poor George
Pshaw
he felt the blow most cruelly, but his brain was as sound as yours or mine
Perhaps he will write to you from Liverpool
He ought
for we've been good friends from the days when we were together at Eton. It isn't kind of George Talboys to treat me like this
It isn't like him
it isn't like George Talboys
That's my name
and my papa's name -- the big gentleman's name
Yes, little Georgey, and your papa came last night and kissed you in your sleep. Do you remember
No
You must have been very fast asleep, little Georgey, not to see poor papa
Where's the pretty lady
What pretty lady
The pretty lady that used to come a long while ago
He means his poor mamma
No
not mamma. Mamma was always crying. I didn't like mamma
Hush, little Georgey
But I didn't, and she didn't like me. She was always crying. I mean the pretty lady; the lady that was dressed so fine, and that gave me my gold watch
He means the wife of my old captain -- an excellent creature, who took a great fancy to Georgey, and gave him some handsome presents
Where's my gold watch? Let me show the gentleman my gold watch
It's gone to be cleaned, Georgey
It's always going to be cleaned
The watch is perfectly safe, I assure you, Mr. Audley
Watch, set with diamonds, L11
I'm often hard pressed for a few shillings, Mr. Audley
My son-in-law has been very liberal to me; but there are others, there are others, Mr. Audley -- and -- and -- I've not been treated well
Come, Georgey, it's time the brave little man was in bed. Come along with grandpa. Excuse me for a quarter of an hour, Mr. Audley
This is a poor place for me to pass my declining years in, Mr. Audley. I've made many sacrifices, and I make them still, but I've not been treated well
And to think that I should care so much for the fellow
The place smells of stale tobacco like a tap-room
there can be no harm in my smoking a cigar here
alboys came to last night, and left by the mail for London, on his way to Liverpool, whence he was to sail for Sydney
My God
what is the meaning of this? I shall go to Liverpool to-night, and make inquiries there
I shall wait for to-morrow morning's post
and if that brings no letter from George, I shall start for Liverpool without a moment's delay
It's that stupid Mrs. Maloney, I dare say
She may knock again for all I care. Why can't she use her duplicate key, instead of dragging a man out of bed when he's half dead with fatigue
She had her key with her all the time, then
I'm very glad I didn't get up
Is that you, Mrs. Maloney
Yes, sir
Then why, in goodness' name, did you make that row at the door, when you had a key with you all the time
A row at the door, sir
Yes; that infernal knocking
Sure I never knocked, Mister Audley, but walked straight in with my kay
Then who did knock? There's been some one kicking up a row at that door for a quarter of an hour, I should think; you must have met him going down-stairs
But I'm rather late this morning, sir, for I've been in Mr. Martin's rooms first, and I've come straight from the floor above
Then you didn't see any one at the door, or on the stairs
Not a mortal soul, sir
Was ever anything so provoking
To think that I should have let this person go away without ascertaining who he was, or what he wanted! How do I know that it was not some one with a message or a letter from George Talboys
Sure if it was, sir, he'll come again
Yes, of course, if it was anything of consequence he'll come again
Oh, by-the-by, sir
I remember one thing about this Mr. Thomas Brown -- his arm was in a sling
George Talboys never sailed for Australia
If he is alive, he is still in England; and if he is dead, his body is hidden in some corner of England
I shall draw up a record of all that has occurred between our going down to Essex and to-night, beginning at the very beginning
_Journal of Facts connected with the Disappearance of George Talboys, inclusive of Facts which have no apparent Relation to that Circumstance
Upon my word
I begin to think that I ought to have pursued my profession, instead of dawdling my life away as I have done
1. I write to Alicia, proposing to take George down to the Court
2. Alicia writes, objecting to the visit, on the part of Lady Audley
3. We go to Essex in spite of that objection. I see my lady. My lady refuses to be introduced to George on that particular evening on the score of fatigue
4. Sir Michael invites George and me to dinner for the following evening
5. My lady receives a telegraphic dispatch the next morning which summons her to London
6. Alicia shows me a letter from my lady, in which she requests to be told when I and my friend, Mr. Talboys, mean to leave Essex. To this letter is subjoined a postscript, reiterating the above request
7. We call at the Court, and ask to see the house. My lady's apartments are locked
8. We get at the aforesaid apartments by means of a secret passage, the existence of which is unknown to my lady. In one of the rooms we find her portrait
9. George is frightened at the storm. His conduct is exceedingly strange for the rest of the evening
10. George quite himself again the following morning. I propose leaving Audley Court immediately; he prefers remaining till the evening
11. We go out fishing. George leaves me to go to the Court
12. The last positive information I can obtain of him in Essex is at the Court, where the servant says he thinks Mr. Talboys told him he would go and look for my lady in the grounds
13. I receive information about him at the station which may or may not be correct
14. I hear of him positively once more at Southampton, where, according to his father-in-law, he had been for an hour on the previous night
15. The telegraphic message
It's as dark as midnight from first to last
and the clew to the mystery must be found either at Southampton or in Essex. Be it how it may, my mind is made up. I shall first go to Audley Court, and look for George Talboys in a narrow radius
Mr. George Talboys.-- Any person who has met this gentleman since the 7th inst., or who possesses any information respecting him subsequent to that date, will be liberally rewarded on communicating with A.Z., 14 Chancery Lane
Robert's friend has not yet been heard of, then
As for that
I cannot help wondering that any one can be silly enough to advertise for him. The young man was evidently of a restless, roving disposition -- a sort of Bamfyld Moore Carew of modern life, whom no attraction could ever keep in one spot
She is a vain, frivolous, heartless little coquette
she is a practiced and consummate flirt, Caesar; and not contented with setting her yellow ringlets and her silly giggle at half the men in Essex, she must needs make that stupid cousin of mine dance attendance upon her. I haven't common patience with her
The poor little woman is very sensitive, you know, Alicia
and she feels your conduct most acutely
I don't believe it a bit, papa
You think her sensitive because she has soft little white hands, and big blue eyes with long lashes, and all manner of affected, fantastical ways, which you stupid men call fascinating. Sensitive! Why, I've seen her do cruel things with those slender white fingers, and laugh at the pain she inflicted. I'm very sorry, papa
though she has come between us, and robbed poor Alicia of the love of that dear, generous heart, I wish I could like her for your sake; but I can't, I can't, and no more can Caesar. She came up to him once with her red lips apart, and her little white teeth glistening between them, and stroked his great head with her soft hand; but if I had not had hold of his collar, he would have flown at her throat and strangled her. She may bewitch every man in Essex, but she'd never make friends with my dog
Your dog shall be shot
if his vicious temper ever endangers Lucy
It seems very hard that you cannot love me, Alicia, for I have never been used to make enemies; but since it seems that it must be so, I cannot help it. If we cannot be friends, let us be neutral. You won't try to injure me
Injure you
how should I injure you
You'll not try to deprive me of your father's affection
I may not be as amiable as you are, my lady, and I may not have the same sweet smiles and pretty words for every stranger I meet, but I am not capable of a contemptible meanness; and even if I were, I think you are so secure of my father's love, that nothing but your own act will ever deprive you of it
What a severe creature you are, Alicia
I suppose you mean to infer by all that, that I'm deceitful. Why, I can't help smiling at people, and speaking prettily to them. I know I'm no _better_ than the rest of the world; but I can't help it if I'm _pleasanter_. It's constitutional
How I hate this desolate month
Every thing dropping to ruin and decay, and the cold flicker of the sun lighting up the ugliness of the earth, as the glare of gas-lamps lights the wrinkles of an old woman. Shall I ever grow old, Phoebe? Will my hair ever drop off as the leaves are falling from those trees, and leave me wan and bare like them? What is to become of me when I grow old
Do you remember, Phoebe
do you remember that French story we read -- the story of a beautiful woman who had committed some crime -- I forget what -- in the zenith of her power and loveliness, when all Paris drank to her every night, and when the people ran away from the carriage of the king to flock about hers, and get a peep at her face? Do you remember how she kept the secret of what she had done for nearly half a century, spending her old age in her family chateau, beloved and honored by all the province as an uncanonized saint and benefactress to the poor; and how, when her hair was white, and her eyes almost blind with age, the secret was revealed through one of those strange accidents by which such secrets always are revealed in romances, and she was tried, found guilty, and condemned to be burned alive? The king who had worn her colors was dead and gone; the court of which she had been a star had passed away; powerful functionaries and great magistrates, who might perhaps have helped her, were moldering in the graves; brave young cavaliers, who would have died for her, had fallen upon distant battle-fields; she had lived to see the age to which she had belonged fade like a dream; and she went to the stake, followed by only a few ignorant country people, who forgot all her bounties, and hooted at her for a wicked sorceress
I don't care for such dismal stories, my lady
One has no need to read books to give one the horrors in this dull place
It is a dull place, Phoebe
though it doesn't do to say so to my dear old husband. Though I am the wife of one of the most influential men in the county, I don't know that I wasn't nearly as well off at Mr. Dawson's; and yet it's something to wear sables that cost sixty guineas, and have a thousand pounds spent on the decoration of one's apartments
You surely are not in love with the awkward, ugly creature are you, Phoebe
I don't think I can love him. We have been together from children, and I promised, when I was little better than fifteen, that I'd be his wife. I daren't break that promise now. There have been times when I've made up the very sentence I meant to say to him, telling him that I couldn't keep my faith with him; but the words have died upon my lips, and I've sat looking at him, with a choking sensation, in my throat that wouldn't let me speak. I daren't refuse to marry him. I've often watched and watched him, as he has sat slicing away at a hedge-stake with his great clasp-knife, till I have thought that it is just such men as he who have decoyed their sweethearts into lonely places, and murdered them for being false to their word. When he was a boy he was always violent and revengeful. I saw him once take up that very knife in a quarrel with his mother. I tell you, my lady, I must marry him
You silly girl, you shall do nothing of the kind
You think he'll murder you, do you? Do you think, then, if murder is in him, you would be any safer as his wife? If you thwarted him, or made him jealous; if he wanted to marry another woman, or to get hold of some poor, pitiful bit of money of yours, couldn't he murder you then? I tell you you sha'n't marry him, Phoebe. In the first place I hate the man; and, in the next place I can't afford to part with you. We'll give him a few pounds and send him about his business
My lady -- my good, kind mistress
don't try to thwart me in this -- don't ask me to thwart him. I tell you I must marry him. You don't know what he is. It will be my ruin, and the ruin of others, if I break my word. I must marry him
Very well, then, Phoebe
I can't oppose you. There must be some secret at the bottom of all this
There is, my lady
I shall be very sorry to lose you; but I have promised to stand your friend in all things. What does your cousin mean to do for a living when, you are married
He would like to take a public house
Then he shall take a public house, and the sooner he drinks himself to death the better. Sir Michael dines at a bachelor's party at Major Margrave's this evening, and my step-daughter is away with her friends at the Grange. You can bring your cousin into the drawing-room after dinner, and I'll tell him what I mean to do for him
You are very good, my lady
Tell my lady how thankful you are, Luke
But I'm not so over and above thankful
Fifty pound ain't much to start a public. You'll make it a hundred, my lady
I shall do nothing of the kind
and I wonder at your impertinence in asking it
Oh, yes, you will, though
You'll make it a hundred, my lady
Phoebe Marks, you have told _this man_
Oh, forgive me, forgive me
He forced it from me, or I would never, never have told
quite the lady
What are you blubbering for, lass
If you didn't want to marry me you should have told me so. I ain't going to murder you, am I
You're cold in all this here finery
Why can't women dress according to their station? You won't have no silk gownds out of my pocket, I can tell you
You were always a poor, spiritless fellow, Bob
but this year I don't know what has come to you. You are good for nothing but to hold a skein of silk or read Tennyson to Lady Audley
My dear, hasty, impetuous Alicia, don't be violent
A conclusion isn't a five-barred gate; and you needn't give your judgment its head, as you give your mare Atalanta hers, when you're flying across country at the heels of an unfortunate fox. Lady Audley interests me, and my uncle's county friends do not. Is that a sufficient answer, Alicia
It's as good an answer as I shall ever get from, you, Bob
but pray amuse yourself in your own way; loll in an easy-chair all day, with those two absurd dogs asleep on your knees; spoil my lady's window-curtains with your cigars and annoy everybody in the house with your stupid, inanimate countenance
Yes
your stupid, inanimate countenance. Do you know, Robert Audley, that with all your mock amiability, you are brimful of conceit and superciliousness. You look down upon our amusements; you lift up your eyebrows, and shrug your shoulders, and throw yourself back in your chair, and wash your hands of us and our pleasures. You are a selfish, cold-hearted Sybarite
Alicia! Good -- gracious -- me
Yes, _selfish_, Robert Audley! You take home half-starved dogs, because you like half-starved dogs. You stoop down, and pat the head of every good-for-nothing cur in the village street, because you like good-for-nothing curs. You notice little children, and give them halfpence, because it amuses you to do so. But you lift your eyebrows a quarter of a yard when poor Sir Harry Towers tells a stupid story, and stare the poor fellow out of countenance with your lazy insolence. As to your amiability, you would let a man hit you, and say 'Thank you' for the blow, rather than take the trouble to hit him again; but you wouldn't go half a mile out of your way to serve your dearest friend. Sir Harry is worth twenty of you, though he _did_ write to ask if my m-a-i-r Atalanta had recovered from the sprain. He can't spell, or lift his eyebrows to the roots of his hair; but he would go through fire and water for the girl he loves; while _you_
Alicia, my darling, what is it
It's -- it's -- it's the feather of my hat that got into my eyes
Good Heaven
What does all this mean? How charmingly she sits her horse! What a pretty figure, too, and a fine, candid, brown, rosy face: but to fly at a fellow like that, without the least provocation! That's the consequence of letting a girl follow the hounds. She learns to look at everything in life as she does at six feet of timber or a sunk fence; she goes through the world as she goes across country -- straight ahead, and over everything. Such a nice girl as she might have been, too, if she'd been brought up in Figtree Court! If ever I marry, and have daughters (which remote contingency may Heaven forefend!) they shall be educated in Paper Buildings, take their sole exercise in the Temple Gardens, and they shall never go beyond the gates till they are marriageable, when I will walk them straight across Fleet street to St. Dunstan's church, and deliver them into the hands of their husbands
You are sure my cigar does not annoy you, Lady Audley
Oh, no indeed; I am quite used to the smell of tobacco. Mr. Dawson, the surgeon, smoked all the evening when I lived in his house
Dawson is a good fellow, isn't he
The dearest of good creatures
He paid me five-and-twenty pounds a year -- only fancy, five-and-twenty pounds! That made six pounds five a quarter. How well I remember receiving the money -- six dingy old sovereigns, and a little heap of untidy, dirty silver, that came straight from the till in the surgery! And then how glad I was to get it! While _now_ -- I can't help laughing while I think of it -- these colors I am using cost a guinea each at Winsor &amp; Newton's -- the carmine and ultramarine thirty shillings. I gave Mrs. Dawson one of my silk dresses the other day, and the poor thing kissed me, and the surgeon carried the bundle home under his cloak
It _is_ a change
it _is_ a change! Some women would do a great deal to accomplish such a change as that
My friend at the corner of Chancery Lane has not given me such good Manillas as usual
If ever you smoke, my dear aunt (and I am told that many women take a quiet weed under the rose), be very careful how you choose your cigars
What an eccentric creature you are, Mr. Audley I Do you know that you sometimes puzzle me
Not more than you puzzle me, dear aunt
That Mr. George -- George
Talboys
Yes, to be sure -- Mr. George Talboys. Rather a singular name, by-the-by, and certainly, by all accounts, a very singular person. Have you seen him lately
I have not seen him since the 7th of September last -- the day upon which he left me asleep in the meadows on the other side of the village
Dear me
what a very strange young man this Mr. George Talboys must be! Pray tell me all about it
And what do you infer from all this
It is so great a mystery to me
that I scarcely dare to draw any conclusion whatever; but in the obscurity I think I can grope my way to two suppositions, which to me seem almost certainties
And they are
First, that George Talboys never went beyond Southampton. Second, that he never went to Southampton at all
But you traced him there. His father-in-law had seen him
I have reason to doubt his father-in-law's integrity
Good gracious me
What do you mean by all this
Lady Audley
I have never practiced as a barrister. I have enrolled myself in the ranks of a profession, the members of which hold solemn responsibilities and have sacred duties to perform; and I have shrunk from those responsibilities and duties, as I have from all the fatigues of this troublesome life. But we are sometimes forced into the very position we have most avoided, and I have found myself lately compelled to think of these things. Lady Audley, did you ever study the theory of circumstantial evidence
How can you ask a poor little woman about such horrid things
Circumstantial evidence
that wonderful fabric which is built out of straws collected at every point of the compass, and which is yet strong enough to hang a man. Upon what infinitesimal trifles may sometimes hang the whole secret of some wicked mystery, inexplicable heretofore to the wisest upon the earth! A scrap of paper, a shred of some torn garment, the button off a coat, a word dropped incautiously from the overcautious lips of guilt, the fragment of a letter, the shutting or opening of a door, a shadow on a window-blind, the accuracy of a moment tested by one of Benson's watches -- a thousand circumstances so slight as to be forgotten by the criminal, but links of iron in the wonderful chain forged by the science of the detective officer; and lo! the gallows is built up; the solemn bell tolls through the dismal gray of the early morning, the drop creaks under the guilty feet, and the penalty of crime is paid
The radius grows narrower day by day
George Talboys never reached Southampton
Stay, my dear boy; stay, my dear Bob, as long as ever you like. I have no son, and you stand to me in the place of one. Make yourself agreeable to Lucy, and make the Court your home as long as you live
a jolly old prince
a jolly old prince
What a fool I am to feel it like this
I always knew it would be so; I always knew that she was a hundred times too good for me. God bless her! How nobly and tenderly she spoke; how beautiful she looked with the crimson blushes under her brown skin, and the tears in her big, gray eyes -- almost as handsome as the day she took the sunk fence, and let me put the brush in her hat as we rode home! God bless her! I can get over anything as long as she doesn't care for that sneaking lawyer. But I couldn't stand that
Yes
Norwich _is_ in Norfolk, and that fool, young Vincent, said it was in Herefordshire. Ha, Alicia, is that you
Yes
Alicia, you have been crying
You have been crying, Alicia. Sir Harry Towers, of Towers Park, in the county of Herts, has been making you an offer of his hand, eh
Have you been listening at the door, Mr. Audley
I have not, Miss Audley. On principle, I object to listen, and in practice I believe it to be a very troublesome proceeding; but I am a barrister, Miss Alicia, and able to draw a conclusion by induction. Do you know what inductive evidence is, Miss Audley
No
I thought not. I dare say Sir Harry would ask if it was a new kind of horse-ball. I knew by induction that the baronet was going to make you an offer; first, because he came downstairs with his hair parted on the wrong side, and his face as pale as a tablecloth; secondly, because he couldn't eat any breakfast, and let his coffee go the wrong way; and, thirdly, because he asked for an interview with you before he left the Court. Well, how's it to be, Alicia? Do we marry the baronet, and is poor Cousin Bob to be the best man at the wedding
Sir Harry Towers is a noble-hearted young man
But do we accept him -- yes or no? Are we to be Lady Towers, with a superb estate in Hertfordshire, summer quarters for our hunters, and a drag with outriders to drive us across to papa's place in Essex? Is it to be so, Alicia, or not
What is that to you, Mr. Robert Audley
What do _you_ care what becomes of me, or whom I marry? If I married a chimney-sweep you'd only lift up your eyebrows and say, 'Bless my soul, she was always eccentric.' I have refused Sir Harry Towers; but when I think of his generous and unselfish affection, and compare it with the heartless, lazy, selfish, supercilious indifference of other men, I've a good mind to run after him and tell him
That you'll retract, and be my Lady Towers
Yes
Then don't, Alicia, don't
Come into the drawing-room with me, Alicia, my poor little cousin; my charming, impetuous, alarming little cousin. Sit down here in this mullioned window, and let us talk seriously and leave off quarreling if we can
My poor little Alicia
do you suppose that because people don't wear vinegar tops, or part their hair on the wrong side, or conduct themselves altogether after the manner of well-meaning maniacs, by way of proving the vehemence of their passion -- do you suppose because of this, Alicia Audley, that they may not be just as sensible of the merits of a dear little warm-hearted and affectionate girl as ever their neighbors can be? Life is such a very troublesome matter, when all is said and done, that it's as well even to take its blessings quietly. I don't make a great howling because I can get good cigars one door from the corner of Chancery Lane, and have a dear, good girl for my cousin; but I am not the less grateful to Providence that it is so
Is this all you have to say to me, Robert
Well, yes, I think so
I fancy that what I wanted to say was this -- don't marry the fox-hunting baronet if you like anybody else better; for if you'll only be patient and take life easily, and try and reform yourself of banging doors, bouncing in and out rooms, talking of the stables, and riding across country, I've no doubt the person you prefer will make you a very excellent husband
Thank you, cousin
but as you may not know the person I prefer, I think you had better not take upon yourself to answer for him
No, to be sure
Of course, if I don't know him -- I thought I did
_Did you
I only said I thought I knew him
Such a nice girl, too, if she didn't bounce
What's the good of being rich if one has no one to help spend one's money
One only grows a selfish beggar, and takes to drinking too much port. It's a hard thing that a girl can refuse a true heart and such stables as we've got at the park. It unsettles a man somehow
Haw, to be sure
By Jove -- hum
Yes
I know I'm a good match, and I know what makes the gals so civil. They're very pretty, and they're very friendly to a fellow; but I don't care about 'em. They're all alike -- they can only drop their eyes and say, 'Lor', Sir Harry, why do you call that curly black dog a retriever?' or 'Oh Sir Harry, and did the poor mare really sprain her pastern shoulder-blade?' I haven't got much brains myself, I know
and I don't want a strong-minded woman, who writes books and wears green spectacles; but, hang it! I like a gal who knows what she's talking about
No
I'm very sorry, Towers
You're as good a fellow as ever breathed, and would have made my girl an excellent husband; but you know there's a cousin, and I think that
Don't say that, Sir Michael
I can get over anything but that. A fellow whose hand upon the curb weighs half a ton (why, he pulled the Cavalier's mouth to pieces, sir, the day you let him ride the horse); a fellow who turns his collars down, and eats bread and marmalade! No, no, Sir Michael; it's a queer world, but I can't think that of Miss Audley. There must be some one in the background, sir; it can't be the cousin
I don't know about that
Bob's a good lad, and the girl might do worse; but he hangs back as if he didn't care for her. There's some mystery -- there's some mystery
So the last of our visitors is gone, dear, and we're all alone
Isn't that nice
Yes, darling
Except Mr. Robert Audley. How long is that nephew of yours going to stay here
As long as he likes, my pet; he's always welcome
But not unless his visit is agreeable to you, darling; not if his lazy habits, or his smoking, or his dogs, or anything about him is displeasing to you
It isn't that
Mr. Audley is a very agreeable young man, and a very honorable young man; but you know, Sir Michael, I'm rather a young aunt for such a nephew, and
And what, Lucy
Poor Alicia is rather jealous of any attention Mr. Audley pays me, and -- and -- I think it would be better for her happiness if your nephew were to bring his visit to a close
He shall go to-night, Lucy
I am a blind, neglectful fool not to have thought of this before. My lovely little darling, it was scarcely just to Bob to expose the poor lad to your fascinations. I know him to be as good and true-hearted a fellow as ever breathed, but -- but -- he shall go tonight
But you won't be too abrupt, dear? You won't be rude
Rude! No, Lucy. I left him smoking in the lime-walk. I'll go and tell him that he must get out of the house in an hour
I have been attentive to my lady
She interests me
God forbid, my dear uncle, that I should ever bring trouble upon such a noble heart as yours! God forbid that the slightest shadow of dishonor should ever fall upon your honored head -- least of all through agency of mine
You know Audley Court
Yes, mum
If you'll run there with this letter to-night, and see that it's put safely in Lady Audley's hands, I'll give you a shilling
Yes, mum
You understand? Ask to see my lady; you can say you've a message -- not a note, mind -- but a message from Phoebe Marks; and when you see her, give this into her own hand
Yes, mum
You won't forget
No, mum
Then be off with you
If there's any bad meaning in his coming here
my lady will know of it in time, at any rate
That
is a woman who could keep a secret
Will you pour out my tea for me, Mrs. Marks
You have come straight from the Court, sir
Yes; I only left my uncle's an hour ago
And my lady, sir, was she quite well
Yes, quite well
As gay and light-hearted as ever, sir
As gay and light-hearted as ever
You knew Lady Audley when she was Miss Lucy Graham, did you not
Yes, sir. I lived at Mrs. Dawson's when my lady was governess there
Indeed! Was she long in the surgeon's family
A year and a half, sir
And she came from London
Yes, sir
And she was an orphan, I believe
Yes, sir
Always as cheerful as she is now
Always, sir
This woman would be good in a witness-box
it would take a clever lawyer to bother her in a cross-examination
There's a triangular draught from those two windows and the door that scarcely adds to the comfort of this apartment
and there certainly are pleasanter sensations than that of standing up to one's knees in cold water
No
that is a woman who can keep a secret. A counsel for the prosecution could get very little out of her
The man is a fool
I'll go and talk to him by-and-by
I have come in for a few minutes' chat before I go to bed
Would you object to a cigar, Mrs. Marks? I mean, of course, to my smoking one
Not at all, sir
It would be a good 'un her objectin' to a bit o' 'bacca
when me and the customers smokes all day
I want you to tell me all about Mount Stanning, Mr. Marks
Then that's pretty soon told
Of all the dull holes as ever a man set foot in, this is about the dullest. Not that the business don't pay pretty tidy; I don't complain of that; but I should ha' liked a public at Chelmsford, or Brentwood, or Romford, or some place where there's a bit of life in the streets; and I might have had it
if folks hadn't been so precious stingy
We forgot the brew-house door, Luke
Will you come with me and help me put up the bar
The brew-house door can bide for to-night
I ain't agoin' to move now. I've seated myself for a comfortable smoke
I don't feel easy about that brew-house door, Luke
there are always tramps about, and they can get in easily when the bar isn't up
Go and put the bar up yourself, then, can't you
It's too heavy for me to lift
Then let it bide, if you're too fine a lady to see to it yourself. You're very anxious all of a sudden about this here brew-house door. I suppose you don't want me to open my mouth to this here gent, that's about it. Oh, you needn't frown at me to stop my speaking! You're always putting in your tongue and clipping off my words before I've half said 'em; but I won't stand it
Do you hear? I won't stand it
Then you don't particularly care to live at Mount Stanning
No, I don't
and I don't care who knows it; and, as I said before, if folks hadn't been so precious stingy, I might have had a public in a thrivin' market town, instead of this tumble-down old place, where a man has his hair blowed off his head on a windy day. What's fifty pound, or what's a hundred pound
Luke! Luke
No, you're not goin' to stop my mouth with all your 'Luke, Lukes
I say again, what's a hundred pound
No
What, indeed, is a hundred pounds to a man possessed of the power which you hold, or rather which your wife holds, over the person in question
A quarter to twelve
Late hours for such a quiet village as Mount Stanning. Good-night, my worthy host. Good-night, Mrs. Marks. You needn't send me my shaving water till nine o'clock to-morrow morning
Lively
for a man used to the fascinations of Temple Bar
I wonder what unhappy wretch has too restless a spirit to stop at home on such a morning as this
Lady Audley! Pray beg her to come in
A false move, my lady, and one I never looked for from you
What a morning, Mr. Audley
what a morning
Yes, indeed! Why did you come out in such weather
Because I wished to see you -- particularly
Indeed
Yes
yes, Mr. Audley, I felt that you had not been well treated; that -- that you had, in short, reason to complain; and that an apology was due to you
I do not wish for any apology, Lady Audley
But you are entitled to one
Why, my dear Robert, should we be so ceremonious toward each other? You were very comfortable at Audley; we were very glad to have you there; but, my dear, silly husband must needs take it into his foolish head that it is dangerous for his poor little wife's peace of mind to have a nephew of eight or nine and twenty smoking his cigars in her boudoir, and, behold! our pleasant little family circle is broken up
Lady Audley
Heaven forbid that either you or I should ever bring grief or dishonor upon my uncle's generous heart! Better, perhaps, that I should be out of the house -- better, perhaps, that I had never entered it
Oh, pray do not be alarmed, Lady Audley
You have no sentimental nonsense, no silly infatuation, borrowed from Balzac or Dumas _fils_, to fear from me. The benchers of the Inner Temple will tell you that Robert Audley is troubled with none of the epidemics whose outward signs are turn-down collars and Byronic neckties. I say that I wish I had never entered my uncle's house during the last year; but I say it with a far more solemn meaning than any sentimental one
If you insist on talking in enigmas, Mr. Audley
you must forgive a poor little woman if she declines to answer them
But tell me
what could have induced you to come up to this dismal place
Curiosity
Curiosity
Yes; I felt an interest in that bull-necked man, with the dark-red hair and wicked gray eyes. A dangerous man, my lady -- a man in whose power I should not like to be
What have I done to you, Robert Audley
what have I done to you that you should hate me so
I had a friend, Lady Audley, whom I loved very dearly, and since I have lost him I fear that my feelings toward other people are strangely embittered
You mean the Mr. Talboys who went to Australia
Yes, I mean the Mr. Talboys who I was told set out for Liverpool with the idea of going to Australia
And you do not believe in his having sailed for Australia
I do not
But why not
Forgive me, Lady Audley, if I decline to answer that question
As you please
A week after my friend disappeared
I posted an advertisement to the Sydney and Melbourne papers, calling upon him if he was in either city when the advertisement appeared, to write and tell me of his whereabouts, and also calling on any one who had met him, either in the colonies or on the voyage out, to give me any information respecting him. George Talboys left Essex, or disappeared from Essex, on the6 th of September last. I ought to receive some answer to this advertisement by the end of this month. To-day is the27 th; the time draws very near
And if you receive no answer
If I receive no answer I shall think that my fears have been not unfounded, and I shall do my best to act
What do you mean by that
Ah, Lady Audley, you remind me how very powerless I am in this matter. My friend might have been made away with in this very inn, and I might stay here for a twelvemonth, and go away at the last as ignorant of his fate as if I had never crossed the threshold. What do we know of the mysteries that may hang about the houses we enter? If I were to go to-morrow into that commonplace, plebeian, eight-roomed house in which Maria Manning and her husband murdered their guest, I should have no awful prescience of that bygone horror. Foul deeds have been done under the most hospitable roofs; terrible crimes have been committed amid the fairest scenes, and have left no trace upon the spot where they were done. I do not believe in mandrake, or in bloodstains that no time can efface. I believe rather that we may walk unconsciously in an atmosphere of crime, and breathe none the less freely. I believe that we may look into the smiling face of a murderer, and admire its tranquil beauty
You seem to have quite a taste for discussing these horrible subjects
you ought to have been a detective police officer
I sometimes think I should have been a good one
Why
Because I am patient
But to return to Mr. George Talboys, whom we lost sight of in your eloquent discussion. What if you receive no answer to your advertisements
I shall then consider myself justified in concluding my friend is dead
Yes, and then
I shall examine the effects he left at my chambers
Indeed! and what are they? Coats, waistcoats, varnished boots, and meerschaum pipes, I suppose
No; letters -- letters from his friends, his old schoolfellows, his father, his brother officers
Yes
Letters, too, from his wife
Have you ever seen any of the letters written by the late Mrs. Talboys
Never. Poor soul! her letters are not likely to throw much light upon my friend's fate. I dare say she wrote the usual womanly scrawl. There are very few who write so charming and uncommon a hand as yours, Lady Audley
Ah, you know my hand, of course
Yes, I know it very well indeed
You have refused to accept my apology, Mr. Audley
but I trust you are not the less assured of my feelings toward you
Perfectly assured, Lady Audley
Then good-by, and let me recommend you not to stay long in this miserable draughty place, if you do not wish to take rheumatism back to Figtree Court
I shall return to town to-morrow morning to see after my letters
Then once more good-by
Have you taken Lady Audley back to the Court
No, sir; I've just come from the Brentwood station. My lady started for London by the 12.40 train
For town
Yes, sir
My lady gone to London
Then I'll follow her by the next train; and if I'm not very much mistaken, I know where to find her
Perhaps, when that gentleman who is making such a noise about a pointer with liver-colored spots, has discovered the particular pointer and spots that he wants -- which happy combination of events scarcely seems likely to arrive -- they'll give me my luggage and let me go. The designing wretches knew at a glance that I was born to be imposed upon; and that if they were to trample the life out of me upon this very platform, I should never have the spirit to bring an action against the company
I beg your pardon
Robert, you in London already
Yes, Lady Audley; you were quite right; the Castle Inn is a dismal place, and
You got tired of it -- I knew you would. Please open the carriage door for me: the train will start in two minutes
What does it mean
She is altogether a different being to the wretched, helpless creature who dropped her mask for a moment, and looked at me with her own pitiful face, in the little room at Mount Stanning, four hours ago. What has happened to cause the change
Thank you very much; how good you are to me
You will think me very foolish to travel upon such a day, without my dear darling's knowledge too; but I went up to town to settle a very terrific milliner's bill, which I did not wish my best of husbands to see; for, indulgent as he is, he might think me extravagant; and I cannot bear to suffer even in his thoughts
Heaven forbid that you ever should, Lady Audley
Heaven forbid it, indeed
I don't think I ever shall
Whatever object brought her to London has been successfully accomplished
Has she baffled me by some piece of womanly jugglery? Am I never to get any nearer to the truth, but am I to be tormented all my life by vague doubts, and wretched suspicions, which may grow upon me till I become a monomaniac? Why did she come to London
the master
I only sent for you to ask if anybody has been here; that is to say, if anybody has applied to you for the key of my rooms to-day -- any lady
Lady? No, indeed, yer honor; there's been no lady for the kay; barrin' it's the blacksmith
The blacksmith
Yes; the blacksmith your honor ordered to come to-day
I order a blacksmith
I left a bottle of French brandy in the cupboard
and Mrs. M. has been evidently enjoying herself
Sure, and the blacksmith your honor tould to see to the locks
It's him that lives down in one of the little streets by the bridge
If you'll sit down and compose yourself, Mrs. M
perhaps we shall be able by and by to understand each other. You say a blacksmith has been here
Sure and I did, sir
To-day
Quite correct, sir
But you were with him while he examined the locks, I suppose
Sure I was, sir, in and out, as you may say, all the time, for I've been cleaning the stairs this afternoon, and I took the opportunity to begin my scouring while the man was at work
Oh, you were in and out all the time. If you _could_ conveniently give me a plain answer, Mrs. M., I should be glad to know what was the longest time that you were _out_ while the locksmith was in my chambers
thim stairs, your honor
Never mind, Mrs. M
the locksmith had plenty of time to do anything he wanted to do, I dare say, without your being any the wiser
Sure, there wasn't anything for him to stale, your honor, barrin' the birds and the geran'ums, and
No, no, I understand. There, that'll do, Mrs. M. Tell me where the man lives, and I'll go and see him
But you'll have a bit of dinner first, sir
I'll go and see the locksmith before I have my dinner
The man's address, Mrs. M
Hulloa
And with that
she walked off, as graceful as you please
You called at my chambers to-day
Don't let me disturb you, ladies
You called at my chambers to-day, Mr. White, and
I hope, sir, you will be so good as to look over the mistake
I'm sure, sir, I'm very sorry it should have occurred. I was sent for to another gentleman's chambers, Mr. Aulwin, in Garden Court; and the name slipped my memory; and havin' done odd jobs before for you, I thought it must be you as wanted me to-day; and I called at Mrs. Maloney's for the key accordin'; but directly I see the locks in your chambers, I says to myself, the gentleman's locks ain't out of order; the gentleman don't want all his locks repaired
But you stayed half an hour
Yes, sir; for there was _one_ lock out of order -- the door nighest the staircase -- and I took it off and cleaned it and put it on again. I won't charge you nothin' for the job, and I hope as you'll be as good as to look over the mistake as has occurred, which I've been in business thirteen years come July, and
Nothing of this kind ever happened before, I suppose
No, it's altogether a singular kind of business, not likely to come about every day. You've been enjoying yourself this evening I see, Mr. White. You've done a good stroke of work to-day, I'll wager -- made a lucky hit, and you're what you call 'standing treat,' eh
is common
missus
Pray don't apologize
I like to see people enjoy themselves. Good-night, Mr. White good-night, ladies
the missus
And so
with that she walked off as graceful as you please.'Who was it that walked off; and what was the story which the locksmith was telling when I interrupted him at that sentence? Oh, George Talboys, George Talboys, am I ever to come any I nearer to the secret of your fate? Am I coming nearer to it now, slowly but surely? Is the radius to grow narrower day by day until it draws a dark circle around the home of those I love? How is it all to end
Her cutlets a la Maintenon made mutton seem more than mutton; a sublimated meat that could scarcely have grown upon any mundane sheep
and Mrs. Maloney's chops are apt to be tough; but such is life -- what does it matter
I have never eaten a good dinner at this table since I lost George Talboys
The place seems as gloomy as if the poor fellow had died in the next room, and had never been taken away to be buried. How long ago that September afternoon appears as I look back at it -- that September afternoon upon which I parted with him alive and well; and lost him as suddenly and unaccountably as if a trap-door had opened in the solid earth and let him through to the antipodes
Heaven help us all
is this paper with which no attorney has had any hand to be my first brief
There'd be no need for any one to break open such a lock as this
I will keep these out
there maybe something to help me in one of them
_Cousine Bette_
Why do I go on with this
when I know that it is leading me, step by step, day by day, hour by hour, nearer to that conclusion which, of all others, I should avoid? Am I tied to a wheel, and must I go with its every revolution, let it take me where it will? Or can I sit down here to-night and say I have done my duty to my missing friend, I have searched for him patiently, but I have searched in vain? Should I be justified in doing this? Should I be justified in letting the chain which I have slowly put together, link by link, drop at this point, or must I go on adding fresh links to that fatal chain until the last rivet drops into its place and the circle is complete? I think, and I believe, that I shall never see my friend's face again; and that no exertion of mine can ever be of any benefit to him. In plainer, crueler words I believe him to be dead. Am I bound to discover how and where he died? or being, as I think, on the road to that discovery, shall I do a wrong to the memory of George Talboys by turning back or stopping still? What am I to do?-- what am I to do
Justice to the dead first
mercy to the living afterward
I thought it would be so
God knows I was prepared for the worst, and the worst has come. I can understand all now. My next visit must be to Southampton. I must place the boy in better hands
I will run into Dorsetshire after I leave Southampton
and see this man. If _he_ is content to let his son's fate rest a dark and cruel mystery to all who knew him -- if he is content to go down to his grave uncertain to the last of this poor fellow's end -- why should I try to unravel the tangled skein, to fit the pieces of the terrible puzzle, and gather together the stray fragments which, when collected, may make such a hideous whole? I will go to him and lay my darkest doubts freely before him. It will be for him to say what I am to do
Who would have thought that I could have grown so fond of the fellow
or feel so lonely without him? I've a comfortable little fortune in the three per cents.; I'm heir presumptive to my uncle's title; and I know of a certain dear little girl who, as I think, would do her best to make me happy; but I declare that I would freely give up all, and stand penniless in the world to-morrow, if this mystery could be satisfactorily cleared away, and George Talboys could stand by my side
The poor child shall not sleep another night in this wretched hovel
He is the legacy of my best friend, and it shall be my business to secure his safety
Mr. Maldon is not at home, sir
but if it's for the water-rate, he requested me to say that
I know you
you came to Ventnor with the big gentleman, and you came here once, and you gave me some money, and I gave it to gran'pa to take care of, and gran'pa kept it, and he always does
Stand there, Georgey
I want to have a good look at you
You are growing more like your father every day, Georgey; and you're growing quite a man, too
would you like to go to school
Oh, yes, please, I should like it very much
I went to school at Miss Pevins' once -- day-school, you know -- round the corner in the next street; but I caught the measles, and gran'pa wouldn't let me go any more, for fear I should catch the measles again; and gran'pa won't let me play with the little boys in the street, because they're rude boys; he said blackguard boys; but he said I mustn't say blackguard boys, because it's naughty. He says damn and devil, but he says he may because he's old. I shall say damn and devil when I'm old; and I should like to go to school, please, and I can go to-day, if you like; Mrs. Plowson will get my frocks ready, won't you, Mrs. Plowson
Certainly, Master Georgey, if your grandpapa wishes it
What on earth is the matter with this woman
Does she still take me for a tax-collector with inimical intentions toward these wretched goods and chattels; or can the cause of her fidgety manner lie deeper still. That's scarcely likely, though; for whatever secrets Lieutenant Maldon may have, it's not very probable that this woman has any knowledge of them
What are you going to do with the child
I was only going to take him away to wash his pretty face, sir, and smooth his hair
You don't see him to any advantage, sir, while his precious face is dirty. I won't be five minutes making him as neat as a new pin
I'd rather see him as he is, thank you
My time in Southampton isn't very long, and I want to hear all that the little man can tell me
I like you very much
I was frightened of you when you came before, because I was shy. I am not shy now -- I am nearly six years old
You're rather fidgety about some one, ma'am, I'm afraid
I was looking for Mr. Maldon, sir
he'll be so disappointed if he doesn't see you
You know who I am, then
No, sir, but
This is the watch the pretty lady gave me
I've got it now -- but I haven't had it long, because the jeweler who cleans it is an idle man, gran'pa says, and always keeps it such a long time; and gran'pa says it will have to be cleaned again, because of the taxes. He always takes it to be cleaned when there's taxes -- but he says if he were to lose it the pretty lady would give me another. Do you know the pretty lady
No, Georgey, but tell me about her
The boy will do very well, ma'am
if you'll be good enough to let him alone for five minutes. Now, Georgey, suppose you sit on my knee, and tell me all about the pretty lady
I'll tell you all about the pretty lady
because I like you very much. Gran'pa told me not to tell anybody, but I'll tell you, you know, because I like you, and because you're going to take me to school. The pretty lady came here one night -- long ago -- oh, so long ago
She came when I was not nearly so big as I am now -- and she came at night -- after I'd gone to bed, and she came up into my room, and sat upon the bed, and cried -- and she left the watch under my pillow, and she -- Why do you make faces at me, Mrs. Plowson? I may tell this gentleman
Suppose you wait till I say so, ma'am, before you stop the little fellow's mouth
A suspicious person might think from your manner that Mr. Maldon and you had some conspiracy between you, and that you were afraid of what the boy's talk may let slip
Don't be cross to Mrs. Plowson
Mrs. Plowson is very kind to me. Mrs. Plowson is Matilda's mother. You don't know Matilda. Poor Matilda was always crying; she was ill, she
You're a prett' creature to call yoursel' sensible woman
Why don't you take th' chile 'way, er wash 's face? D'yer want to ruin me? D'yer want to 'stroy me? Take th' chile 'way! Mr. Audley, sir, I'm ver' glad to see yer; ver' 'appy to 'ceive yer in m' humbl' 'bode
Whatever this man's secrets are
that woman has no unimportant share of them. Whatever the mystery may be, it grows darker and thicker at every step; but I try in vain to draw back or to stop short upon the road, for a stronger hand than my own is pointing the way to my lost friend's unknown grave
I am going to take your grandson away with me, Mr. Maldon
Yes, yes
take the boy away from his poor old grandfather; I always thought so
You always thought that I should take him away
Why did you think so, Mr. Maldon
Thought so --'cause I thought so
Because I thought you or his father would fetch 'm away
When I was last in this house, Mr. Maldon, you told me that George Talboys had sailed for Australia
Yes, yes -- I know, I know
I know; but he might have come back -- mightn't he? He was restless, and -- and -- queer in his mind, perhaps, sometimes. He might have come back
Mr. Maldon
George Talboys never sailed for Australia -- that I know. More than this, he never came to Southampton; and the lie you told me on the8 th of last September was dictated to you by the telegraphic message which you received on that day
The lie was dictated to you, and you repeated your lesson. But you no more saw George Talboys here on the7 th of September than I see him in this room now. You thought you had burnt the telegraphic message, but you had only burnt a part of it -- the remainder is in my possession
What have I done
Oh, my God! what have I done
At two o'clock on the 7th of September last
George Talboys was seen alive and well at a house in Essex
At two o'clock on that day
my poor friend was seen alive and well at ----, at the house of which I speak. From that hour to this I have never been able to hear that he has been seen by any living creature. I have taken such steps as _must_ have resulted in procuring the information of his whereabouts, were he alive. I have done this patiently and carefully -- at first, even hopefully. Now I know that he is dead
No, no, no, no
no, no! For God's sake, don't say that! Don't think it -- don't let _me_ think it -- don't let me dream of it! Not dead -- anything but dead! Hidden away, perhaps -- bribed to keep out of the way, perhaps; but not dead -- not dead -- not dead
I believe
that my friend left Essex; and I believe he died on the 7th of September last
Oh! no, no -- for God's, no
No! you don't know what you say -- you don't know what your words mean
I know their weight and value only too well -- as well as I see you do, Mr. Maldon. God help us
Oh, what am I doing? what am I doing
You have no right to come here and terrify a man who has been drinking, and who is not quite himself. You have no right to do it, Mr. Audley. Even the -- the officer, sir, who -- who
The officer, I repeat, sir, who arrests a -- thief, or a
A thief or a murderer
Gives him warning, sir, fair warning, that he may say nothing which shall commit himself -- or -- or -- other people. The -- the -- law, sir, has that amount of mercy for a -- a -- suspected criminal. But you, sir,-- you come to my house, and you come at a time when -- when -- contrary to my usual habits -- which, as people will tell you, are sober -- you take the opportunity to -- terrify me -- and it is not right, sir -- it is
If I had known this
I might have spared him. It would have been better, perhaps, to have spared him
Why do I go on with this
how pitiless I am, and how relentlessly I am carried on. It is not myself; it is the hand which is beckoning me further and further upon the dark road, whose end I dare not dream of
Mr. Maldon
I do not ask you to forgive me for what I have brought upon you, for the feeling is strong within me that it must have come to you sooner or later -- if not through me, through some one else. There are
There are some things which, as people say, cannot be hidden. I think there is truth in that common saying which had its origin in that old worldly wisdom which people gathered from experience and not from books. If -- if I were content to let my friend rest in his hidden grave, it is but likely that some stranger who had never heard the name of George Talboys, might fall by the remotest accident upon the secret of his death. To-morrow, perhaps; or ten years hence, or in another generation, when the -- the hand that wronged him is as cold as his own. If I _could_ let the matter rest; if -- if I could leave England forever, and purposely fly from the possibility of ever coming across another clew to the secret, I would do it -- I would gladly, thankfully do it -- but I _cannot_! A hand which is stronger than my own beckons me on. I wish to take no base advantage of you, less than of all other people; but I must go on; I must go on. If there is any warning you would give to any one, give it. If the secret toward which I am traveling day by day, hour by hour, involves any one in whom you have an interest, let that person fly before I come to the end. Let them leave this country; let them leave all who know them -- all whose peace their wickedness has endangered; let them go away -- they shall not be pursued. But if they slight your warning -- if they try to hold their present position in defiance of what it will be in your power to tell them -- let them beware of me, for, when the hour comes, I swear that I will not spare them
I declare to you that I do not understand you
I solemnly declare to you that I cannot understand; and I do not believe that George Talboys is dead
I would give ten years of my own life if I could see him alive
I am sorry for you, Mr. Malden -- I am sorry for all of us
I do not believe that my son-in-law is dead
I do not believe that the poor lad is dead
Dear heart alive
what has the poor old gentleman been taking on about? We could hear him in the passage, sobbin' awful
Don't cry, gran'pa
don't cry. You shall have my watch to be cleaned, and the kind jeweler shall lend you the money to pay the taxman while he cleans the watch -- I don't mind, gran'pa. Let's go to the jeweler, the jeweler in High street, you know, with golden balls painted upon his door, to show that he comes from Lombar -- Lombardshire
Come, gran'pa
There are wolves at Southampton
My gran'pa says when he takes my watch that he does it to keep the wolf from the door. Are there wolves where you live
Your grandpapa does not want the watch to-day, Georgey
Why is he sorry, then
when he wants the watch he is always sorry, and beats his poor forehead so
and says that she -- the pretty lady, I think he means -- uses him very hard, and that he can't keep the wolf from the door; and then I say, 'Gran'pa, have the watch;' and then he takes me in his arms, and says, 'Oh, my blessed angel! how can I rob my blessed angel?' and then he cries, but not like to-day -- not loud, you know; only tears running down his poor cheeks, not so that you could hear him in the passage
Poor dear old gentleman
What has happened to upset him so
His son-in-law is dead
He died, within a year and a half after the death of Helen Talboys, who lies burried in Ventnor churchyard
Poor Mr. Talboys dead
that is bad news indeed, sir
Who's dead
George Talboys is my name. Who's dead
Another person whose name is Talboys, Georgey
Poor person! Will he go to the pit-hole
I should like to _see_ him put in the pit-hole
You have no objection to my taking Georgey away with me, Mr. Maldon
You do not object, Mr. Maldon
No, sir -- no, sir; you are his guardian, and you have a right to take him where you please. He has been a very great comfort to me in my lonely old age, but I have been prepared to lose him. I -- I may not have always done my duty to him, sir, in -- in the way of schooling, and -- and boots. The number of boots which boys of his age wear out, sir, is not easily realized by the mind of a young man like yourself; he has been kept away from school, perhaps, sometimes, and occasionally worn shabby boots when our funds have got low; but he has not been unkindly treated. No, sir; if you were to question him for a week, I don't think you'd hear that his poor old grandfather ever said a harsh word to him
Mr. Maldon
when I looked at my position last night, I did not believe that I could ever come to think it more painful than I thought it then. I can only say -- God have mercy upon us all. I feel it my duty to take the child away, but I shall take him straight from your house to the best school in Southampton; and I give you my honor that I will extort nothing from his innocent simplicity which can in any manner -- I mean
I mean this. I will not seek to come one step nearer the secret through him. I -- I am not a detective officer, and I do not think the most accomplished detective would like to get his information from a child
Take the boy away, Mrs. Plowson
take him away and put his things on. He is going with Mr. Audley
Which I do say that it's not kind of the gentleman to take his poor grandpa's pet away
Hush, Mrs. Plowson
Mr. Audley is the best judge. I -- I haven't many years to live; I sha'n't trouble anybody long
God knows, I never injured your friend, sir
nor even wished him any ill. He was a good son-in-law to me -- better than many a son. I never did him any wilful wrong, sir. I -- I spent his money, perhaps, but I am sorry for it -- I am very sorry for it now. But I don't believe he is dead -- no, sir; no, I don't believe it
I -- I don't believe it, sir! How -- how should he be dead
Don't be sorry for me, gran'pa
I am going to school to learn to be a clever man, and I shall come home to see you and Mrs. Plowson, sha'n't I
Yes, my dear, by-and-by
Take him away, sir -- take him away
you are breaking my heart
I've a vague recollection of getting a good deal of bread and milk and boiled mutton
and I've another vague recollection of not liking them. I wonder if this boy likes bread and milk and boiled mutton
I dare say you're hungry, Georgey
Perhaps you'd like some lunch
Lunch
Why, it's afternoon, and I've had my dinner
You shall have some bread and milk, Georgey
Waiter, bread and milk, and a pint of hock
I never have bread and milk
I don't like it. I like what gran'pa calls something savory. I should like a veal cutlet. Gran'pa told me he dined here once, and the veal cutlets were lovely, gran'pa said. Please may I have a veal cutlet, with egg and bread-crumb, you know, and lemon-juice you know
Gran'pa knows the cook here. The cook's such a nice gentleman, and once gave me a shilling, when gran'pa brought me here. The cook wears better clothes than gran'pa -- better than yours, even
I'll tell you what I'll do with you, little Georgey
_I'll give you a dinner
Upon my word, sir
I think the little gentleman will know how to eat it
I'll give you a dinner, Georgey
some stewed eels, a little Julienne, a dish of cutlets, a bird, and a pudding. What do you say to that, Georgey
I don't think the young gentleman will object to it when he sees it, sir
Eels, Julienne, cutlets, bird, pudding -- I'll go and tell the cook, sir. What time, sir
Well, we'll say six, and Master Georgey will get to his new school by bedtime. You can contrive to amuse the child for this afternoon, I dare say. I have some business to settle, and sha'n't be able to take him out. I shall sleep here to-night. Good-by, Georgey; take care of yourself and try and get your appetite in order against six o'clock
I shall start early to-morrow morning
and see George's father before nightfall. I will tell him all -- all but the interest which I take in -- in the suspected person, and he shall decide what is next to be done
I'm glad I'm going to have new clothes
for Mrs. Plowson has mended the old ones ever so many times. She can have them now, for Billy
Who's Billy
Billy is poor Matilda's little boy. He's a common boy, you know. Matilda was common, but she
My son did me an unpardonable wrong by marrying the daughter of a drunken pauper
and from that hour I had no longer a son. I wish him no ill. He is simply dead to me. I am sorry for him, as I am sorry for his mother who died nineteen years ago. If you talk to me of him as you would talk of the dead, I shall be ready to hear you. If you speak of him as you would speak of the living, I must decline to listen
If I write to him, he will fold my letter with the envelope inside, and indorse it with my name and the date of its arrival
and call everybody in the house to witness that it had not moved him to one softening recollection or one pitiful thought. He will stick to his resolution to his dying day. I dare say, if the truth was known, he is glad that his only son has offended him and given him the opportunity of parading his Roman virtues
No my darling
It's very hard, perhaps, to be poor, but we will bear it. We won't go with pitiful faces to the stern father, and ask him to give us food and shelter, only to be refused in long, Johnsonian sentences, and made a classical example for the benefit of the neighborhood. No, my pretty one; it is easy to starve, but it is difficult to stoop
I thought dragoons were always rich
Girls always want to marry dragoons; and tradespeople always want to serve dragoons; and hotel-keepers to entertain dragoons; and theatrical managers to be patronized by dragoons. Who could have ever expected that a dragoon would drink sixpenny ale, smoke horrid bird's-eye tobacco, and let his wife wear a shabby bonnet
If the man is anything like his house
I don't wonder that poor George and he parted
If you will step this way, sir
Mr. Talboys will see you, although he is at breakfast. He begged me to state that everybody in Dorsetshire was acquainted with his breakfast hour
I don't belong to Dorsetshire
Mr. Talboys might have known that, if he'd done me the honor to exercise his powers of ratiocination. Drive on, my friend
His sister
His sister, no doubt. He was fond of her, I know. Surely, she is not utterly indifferent as to his fate
Sit down, Clara
Sit down, Clara
and keep your cotton in your workbox
Perhaps, Mr. ----, Mr. Robert Audley
perhaps when you have finished looking for reels of cotton, you will be good enough to tell me to what I owe the honor of this visit
You may remain, Wilson
Mr. Audley would perhaps like coffee
Mr. Audley will not take coffee, Wilson
You may go
I wrote to you some time since, Mr. Talboys
I received your communication, Mr. Audley
It is among other business letters: it was duly answered
That letter concerned your son
She's as heartless as her father, I expect, though she is like George
If your letter concerned the person who was once my son, perhaps, sir
I must ask you to remember that I have no longer a son
You have no reason to remind me of that, Mr. Talboys
I remember it only too well. I have fatal reason to believe that you have no longer a son. I have bitter cause to think that he is dead
No
no, I assure you, no
I believe that George Talboys died in the month of September
No, no, I assure you
you labor under a sad mistake
You believe that I am mistaken in thinking your son dead
Most certainly
Most certainly, my dear sir. The disappearance was a very clever trick, no doubt, but it was not sufficiently clever to deceive me. You must permit me to understand this matter a little better than you, Mr. Audley, and you must also permit me to assure you of three things. In the first place, your friend is not dead. In the second place, he is keeping out of the way for the purpose of alarming me, of trifling with my feelings as a -- as a man who was once his father, and of ultimately obtaining my forgiveness. In the third place, he will not obtain that forgiveness, however long he may please to keep out of the way; and he would therefore act wisely by returning to his ordinary residence and avocations without delay
Then you imagine him to purposely hide himself from all who know him, for the purpose of
For the purpose of influencing _me_
For the purpose of influencing me. He knew the inflexibility of my character; to a certain degree he was acquainted with me, and knew that all attempts at softening my decision, or moving me from the fixed purpose of my life, would fail. He therefore tried extraordinary means; he has kept out of the way in order to alarm me, and when after due time he discovers that he has not alarmed me, he will return to his old haunts. When he does so
I will forgive him. Yes, sir, I will forgive him. I shall say to him: You have attempted to deceive me, and I have shown you that I am not to be deceived; you have tried to frighten me, and I have convinced you that I am not to be frightened; you did not believe in my generosity, I will show you that I can be generous
Heaven grant that you may have an opportunity of saying this to your son, sir
I am very glad to find that you are willing to forgive him, but I fear that you will never see him again upon this earth. I have a great deal to say to you upon this -- this sad subject, Mr. Talboys; but I would rather say it to you alone
My daughter knows my ideas upon this subject, Mr. Audley
there is no reason why she should not hear all you have to say. Miss Clara Talboys, Mr. Robert Audley
Let her hear it
If she has so little feeling as to show no emotion upon such a subject, let her hear the worst I have to tell
I shall require all your attention, Mr. Talboys
for that which I have to disclose to you is of a very painful nature. Your son was my very dear friend -- dear to me for many reasons. Perhaps most of all dear, because I had known him and been with him through the great trouble of his life; and because he stood comparatively alone in the world -- cast off by you who should have been his best friend, bereft of the only woman he had ever loved
The daughter of a drunken pauper
Had he died in his bed, as I sometimes thought be would
of a broken heart, I should have mourned for him very sincerely, even though I had closed his eyes with my own hands, and had seen him laid in his quiet resting-place. I should have grieved for my old schoolfellow, and for the companion who had been dear to me. But this grief would have been a very small one compared to that which I feel now, believing, as I do only too firmly, that my poor friend has been murdered
Murdered
Mr. Audley, you are mad
you are mad, or else you are commissioned by your friend to play upon my feelings. I protest against this proceeding as a conspiracy, and I -- I revoke my intended forgiveness of the person who was once my son
It is far from my wish to alarm you unnecessarily, sir
Heaven grant that you may be right and I wrong. I pray for it, but I cannot think it -- I cannot even hope it. I come to you for advice. I will state to you plainly and dispassionately the circumstances which have aroused my suspicions. If you say those suspicions are foolish and unfounded I am ready to submit to your better judgment. I will leave England; and I abandon my search for the evidence wanting to -- to confirm my fears. If you say go on, I will go on
Now, sir
I await your decision. You have heard my reasons for coming to this terrible conclusion. In what manner do these reasons influence you
They don't in any way turn me from my previous opinion
I still think, as I thought before, that my son is alive, and that his disappearance is a conspiracy against myself. I decline to become the victim of that conspiracy
And you tell me to stop
I tell you only this: If you go on, you go on for your own satisfaction, not for mine. I see nothing in what you have told me to alarm me for the safety of -- your friend
So be it, then
from this moment I wash my hands of this business. From this moment the purpose of my life shall be to forget it
Good morning, Mr. Talboys
God grant that you are right. God grant that I am wrong. But I fear a day will come when you will have reason to regret your apathy respecting the untimely fate of your only son
She is like her father
Poor George, you had need of one friend in this world, for you have had very few to love you
Thank God
thank God! it is over. My poor friend must rest in his unknown grave; and I shall not be the means of bringing disgrace upon those I love. It will come, perhaps, sooner or later, but it will not come through me. The crisis is past, and I am free
Is it _me_ the flying female wants
It is an age of eccentricity, an abnormal era of the world's history. She may want me. Very likely I left my pocket-handkerchief behind me, and Mr. Talboys has sent this person with it. Perhaps I'd better get out and go and meet her. It's civil to send my handkerchief
Good Heaven
it's Miss Talboys
Miss Talboys
what can I -- why
Oh, let me speak to you
let me speak to you, or I shall go mad. I heard it all. I believe what you believe, and I shall go mad unless I can do something -- something toward avenging his death
Take my arm, Miss Talboys
Pray calm yourself. Let us walk a little way back toward the house, and talk quietly. I would not have spoken as I did before you had I known
Had you known that I loved my brother
How should you know that I loved him? How should any one think that I loved him, when I have never had power to give him a welcome beneath that roof, or a kindly word from his father? How should I dare to betray my love for him in that house when I knew that even a sister's affection would be turned to his disadvantage? You do not know my father, Mr. Audley. I do. I knew that to intercede for George would have been to ruin his cause. I knew that to leave matters in my father's hands, and to trust to time, was my only chance of ever seeing that dear brother again. And I waited -- waited patiently, always hoping for the best; for I knew that my father loved his only son. I see your contemptuous smile, Mr. Audley, and I dare say it is difficult for a stranger to believe that underneath his affected stoicism my father conceals some degree of affection for his children -- no very warm attachment perhaps, for he has always ruled his life by the strict law of duty. Stop
I ran out of the house by the back way. Papa must not see me talking to you, Mr. Audley, and he must not see the fly standing at the gate. Will you go into the high-road and tell the man to drive on a little way? I will come out of the plantation by a little gate further on, and meet you in the road
But you will catch cold, Miss Talboys
You are shivering now
Not with cold
I am thinking of my brother George. If you have any pity for the only sister of your lost friend, do what I ask you, Mr. Audley. I must speak to you -- I must speak to you -- calmly, if I can
Will you walk with me inside the plantation
We might be observed on the high-road
Pray, pray calm yourself, Miss Talboys
I may have been deceived in the opinion which I have formed; I may
No, no, no
you are not deceived. My brother has been murdered. Tell me the name of that woman -- the woman whom you suspect of being concerned in his disappearance -- in his murder
That I cannot do until
Until when
Until I know that she is guilty
You told my father that you would abandon all idea of discovering the truth -- that you would rest satisfied to leave my brother's fate a horrible mystery never to be solved upon this earth; but you will not do so, Mr. Audley -- you will not be false to the memory of your friend. You will see vengeance done upon those who have destroyed him. You will do this, will you not
A hand that is stronger than my own is beckoning me onward, upon the dark road
If you knew what misery to me may be involved in discovering the truth, Miss Talboys
you would scarcely ask me to pursue this business any farther
But I do ask you
What if I answer no
Then I will do it myself
I myself will follow up the clew to this mystery; I will find this woman -- though you refuse to tell me in what part of England my brother disappeared. I will travel from one end of the world to the other to find the secret of his fate, if you refuse to find it for me. I am of age; my own mistress; rich, for I have money left me by one of my aunts; I shall be able to employ those who will help me in my search, and I will make it to their interest to serve me well. Choose between the two alternatives, Mr. Audley. Shall you or I find my brother's murderer
I have grown up in an atmosphere of suppression
I have stifled and dwarfed the natural feelings of my heart, until they have become unnatural in their intensity; I have been allowed neither friends nor lovers. My mother died when I was very young. My father has always been to me what you saw him to-day. I have had no one but my brother. All the love that my heart can hold has been centered upon him. Do you wonder, then, that when I hear that his young life has been ended by the hand of treachery, that I wish to see vengeance done upon the traitor? Oh, my God
lead me to the murderer of my brother, and let mine be the hand to avenge his untimely death
Miss Talboys
your brother shall not be unavenged. He shall not be forgotten. I do not think that any professional aid which you could procure would lead you as surely to the secret of this mystery as I can lead you, if you are patient and trust me
I will trust you
for I see that you will help me
I believe that it is my destiny to do so
Have you any letters of your brother's, Miss Talboys
Two. One written soon after his marriage, the other written at Liverpool, the night before he sailed for Australia
Will you let me see them
Yes, I will send them to you if you will give me your address You will write to me from time to time, will you not, to tell me whether you are approaching the truth. I shall be obliged to act secretly here, but I am going to leave home in two or three months, and I shall be perfectly free then to act as I please
You are not going to leave England
Oh no! I am only going to pay a long-promised visit to some friends in Essex
My brother George disappeared in Essex
I am sorry you have discovered so much
My position becomes every day more complicated, every day more painful. Good-bye
Pray lose no time in returning to the house
I fear you will suffer from this morning's work
Suffer
You talk to me of suffering, when the only creature in this world who ever loved me has been taken from it in the bloom of youth. What can there be for me henceforth but suffering? What is the cold to me
I would walk from here to London barefoot through the snow, and never stop by the way, if I could bring him back to life. What would I not do to bring him back? What would I not do
Pray, pray be calm
hope even against hope. We may both be deceived; your brother may still live
Oh! if it were so
if it could be so
Let us try and hope that it may be so
No
let us hope for nothing but revenge. Good-by, Mr. Audley. Stop; your address
I will send you George's letters
they may help you. Good-by
Heaven help those who stand between me and the secret
for they will be sacrificed to the memory of George Talboys
What a pleasant thing life is
What an unspeakable boon -- what an overpowering blessing! Let any man make a calculation of his existence, subtracting the hours in which he has been _thoroughly_ happy -- really and entirely at his ease, without one _arriere pensee_ to mar his enjoyment -- without the most infinitesimal cloud to overshadow the brightness of his horizon. Let him do this, and surely he will laugh in utter bitterness of soul when he sets down the sum of his felicity, and discovers the pitiful smallness of the amount. He will have enjoyed himself for a week or ten days in thirty years, perhaps. In thirty years of dull December, and blustering March, and showery April, and dark November weather, there may have been seven or eight glorious August days, through which the sun has blazed in cloudless radiance, and the summer breezes have breathed perpetual balm. How fondly we recollect these solitary days of pleasure, and hope for their recurrence, and try to plan the circumstances that made them bright; and arrange, and predestinate, and diplomatize with fate for a renewal of the remembered joy. As if any joy could ever be built up out of such and such constituent parts! As if happiness were not essentially accidental -- a bright and wandering bird, utterly irregular in its migrations; with us one summer's day, and forever gone from us on the next! Look at marriages, for instance
Look at marriage! Who is to say which shall be the one judicious selection out of nine hundred and ninety-nine mistakes! Who shall decide from the first aspect of the slimy creature, which is to be the one eel out of the colossal bag of snakes? That girl on the curbstone yonder, waiting to cross the street when my chariot shall have passed, may be the one woman out of every female creature in this vast universe who could make me a happy man. Yet I pass her by -- bespatter her with the mud from my wheels, in my helpless ignorance, in my blind submission to the awful hand of fatality. If that girl, Clara Talboys, had been five minutes later, I should have left Dorsetshire thinking her cold, hard, and unwomanly, and should have gone to my grave with that mistake part and parcel of my mind. I took her for a stately and heartless automaton; I know her now to be a noble and beautiful woman. What an incalculable difference this may make in my life. When I left that house, I went out into the winter day with the determination of abandoning all further thought of the secret of George's death. I see her, and she forces me onward upon the loathsome path -- the crooked by-way of watchfulness and suspicion. How can I say to this sister of my dead friend, 'I believe that your brother has been murdered! I believe that I know by whom, but I will take no step to set my doubts at rest, or to confirm my fears'? I cannot say this. This woman knows half my secret; she will soon possess herself of the rest, and then -- and then
boiled mack'-_rill_
I accept the dominion of that pale girl, with the statuesque features and the calm brown eyes
I recognize the power of a mind superior to my own, and I yield to it, and bow down to it. I've been acting for myself, and thinking for myself, for the last few months, and I'm tired of the unnatural business. I've been false to the leading principle of my life, and I've suffered for the folly. I found two gray hairs in my head the week before last, and an impertinent crow has planted a delicate impression of his foot under my right eye. Yes, I'm getting old upon the right side; and why -- why should it be so
What the devil am I doing in this _galere_
But I am in it, and I can't get out of it; so I better submit myself to the brown-eyed girl, and do what she tells me patiently and faithfully. What a wonderful solution to life's enigma there is in petticoat government! Man might lie in the sunshine, and eat lotuses, and fancy it 'always afternoon,' if his wife would let him! But she won't, bless her impulsive heart and active mind! She knows better than that. Who ever heard of a woman taking life as it ought to be taken? Instead of supporting it as an unavoidable nuisance, only redeemable by its brevity, she goes through it as if it were a pageant or a procession. She dresses for it, and simpers and grins, and gesticulates for it. She pushes her neighbors, and struggles for a good place in the dismal march; she elbows, and writhes, and tramples, and prances to the one end of making the most of the misery. She gets up early and sits up late, and is loud, and restless, and noisy, and unpitying. She drags her husband on to the woolsack, or pushes him into Parliament. She drives him full butt at the dear, lazy machinery of government, and knocks and buffets him about the wheels, and cranks, and screws, and pulleys; until somebody, for quiet's sake, makes him something that she wanted him to be made. That's why incompetent men sometimes sit in high places, and interpose their poor, muddled intellects between the things to be done and the people that can do them, making universal confusion in the helpless innocence of well-placed incapacity. The square men in the round holes are pushed into them by their wives. The Eastern potentate who declared that women were at the bottom of all mischief, should have gone a little further and seen why it is so. It is because women are _never lazy_. They don't know what it is to be quiet. They are Semiramides, and Cleopatras, and Joans of Arc, Queen Elizabeths, and Catharines the Second, and they riot in battle, and murder, and clamor and desperation. If they can't agitate the universe and play at ball with hemispheres, they'll make mountains of warfare and vexation out of domestic molehills, and social storms in household teacups. Forbid them to hold forth upon the freedom of nations and the wrongs of mankind, and they'll quarrel with Mrs. Jones about the shape of a mantle or the character of a small maid-servant. To call them the weaker sex is to utter a hideous mockery. They are the stronger sex, the noisier, the more persevering, the most self-assertive sex. They want freedom of opinion, variety of occupation, do they? Let them have it. Let them be lawyers, doctors, preachers, teachers, soldiers, legislators -- anything they like -- but let them be quiet -- if they can
I hate women
They're bold, brazen, abominable creatures, invented for the annoyance and destruction of their superiors. Look at this business of poor George's! It's all woman's work from one end to the other. He marries a woman, and his father casts him off penniless and professionless. He hears of the woman's death and he breaks his heart -- his good honest, manly heart, worth a million of the treacherous lumps of self-interest and mercenary calculation which beats in women's breasts. He goes to a woman's house and he is never seen alive again. And now I find myself driven into a corner by another woman, of whose existence I had never thought until this day. And -- and then
there's Alicia, too; _she's_ another nuisance. She'd like me to marry her I know; and she'll make me do it, I dare say, before she's done with me. But I'd much rather not; though she is a dear, bouncing, generous thing, bless her poor little heart
It's comfortable, but it seems so deuced lonely to-night. If poor George were sitting opposite to me, or -- or even George's sister -- she's very like him -- existence might be a little more endurable. But when a fellow's lived by himself for eight or ten years he begins to be bad company
The idea of my thinking of George's sister
what a preposterous idiot I am
From Clara Talboys
Yes, from Clara Talboys, most decidedly; I recognized a feminine resemblance to poor George's hand; neater than his, and more decided than his, but very like, very like
I wonder what she says to me
It's a long letter, I dare say; she's the kind of woman who would write a long letter -- a letter that will urge me on, drive me forward, wrench me out of myself, I've no doubt. But that can't be helped -- so here goes
I send the letters; please preserve and return them -- C.T
If George could have known for what a purpose this description would serve when he wrote it
surely his hand would have fallen paralyzed by horror, and powerless to shape one syllable of these tender words
lovely woman, with all her faults, God bless her
If she would only take warning and run away
Heaven knows, I have given her a fair chance. Why doesn't she take it and run away
Papa is very ill
From your affectionate cousin, ALICIA
Have I done right
have I done right to tamper with justice; and to keep the secret of my doubts in the hope that I was shielding those I love from sorrow and disgrace? What shall I do if I find him ill, very ill, dying perhaps, dying upon her breast! What shall I do
What would become of this place if my uncle were to die
Would other people live in the old house, and sit under the low oak ceilings in the homely familiar rooms
Sir Michael will be cheered up a bit, sir, by the sight of you
Shall I bring you some dinner here, sir, before you go up-stairs
My lady and Miss Audley have dined early during my master's illness, but I can bring you anything you would please to take, sir
I'll take nothing until I have seen my uncle
that is to say, if I can see him at once. He is not too ill to receive me, I suppose
Oh, no, sir -- not too ill; only a little low, sir. This way, if you please
Mr. Audley
Hush
you will wake papa. How good of you to come, Robert
He has not been very ill, has he
Oh, no, not dangerously ill
but still we have been anxious, very, very anxious
She shall look at me
I will make her meet my eyes, and I will read her as I have read her before. She shall know how useless her artifices are with me
I have no doubt you have been anxious, Lady Audley
There is no one to whom my uncle's life I can be of more value than to you. Your happiness, your prosperity, your _safety_ depend alike upon his existence
I know that
Those who strike me must strike through him
It was very good of you to come to me, Bob
I have been thinking of you a good deal since I have been ill. You and Lucy must be good friends, you know, Bob; and you must learn to think of her as your aunt, sir; though she is young and beautiful; and -- and -- you understand, eh
I do understand you, sir
and I give you my word of honor that I am steeled against my lady's fascinations. She knows that as well as I do
Bah, you silly Robert
you take everything _au serieux_. If I thought you were rather too young for a nephew, it was only in my fear of other people's foolish gossip; not from any
I will light you to the staircase
No, no, Mr. Audley, pray do not trouble yourself
I know my way very well indeed
Will you see that the door is closed, Mr. Dawson
I wish to have a few moments' private conversation with you
With much pleasure
but if you are at all alarmed about your uncle, Mr. Audley, I can set your mind at rest. There is no occasion for the least uneasiness. Had his illness been at all serious I should have telegraphed immediately for the family physician
I am sure that you would have done your duty, sir
But I am not going to speak of my uncle. I wish to ask you two or three questions about another person
Indeed
The person who once lived in your family as Miss Lucy Graham; the person who is now Lady Audley
Pardon me, Mr. Audley
you can scarcely expect me to answer any questions about your uncle's wife without Sir Michael's express permission. I can understand no motive which can prompt you to ask such questions -- no worthy motive, at least
You have been falling in love with your uncle's pretty wife, sir, and you want to make me a go-between in some treacherous flirtation; but it won't do, sir, it won't do
I always respected the lady as Miss Graham, sir
and I esteem her doubly as Lady Audley -- not on account of her altered position, but because she is the wife of one of the noblest men in Christendom
You cannot respect my uncle or my uncle's honor more sincerely than I do
I have no unworthy motive for the questions I am about to ask; and you must answer them
_Must
Yes, you are my uncle's friend. It was at your house he met the woman who is now his wife. She called herself an orphan, I believe, and enlisted his pity as well as his admiration in her behalf. She told him that she stood alone in the world, did she not?-- without a friend or relative. This was all I could ever learn of her antecedents
What reason have you to wish to know more
A very terrible reason
For some months past I have struggled with doubts and suspicions which have embittered my life. They have grown stronger every day; and they will not be set at rest by the commonplace sophistries and the shallow arguments with which men try to deceive themselves rather than believe that which of all things upon earth they most fear to believe. I do not think that the woman who bears my uncle's name, is worthy to be his wife. I may wrong her. Heaven grant that it is so. But if I do, the fatal chain of circumstantial evidence never yet linked itself so closely about an innocent person. I wish to set my doubts at rest or -- or to confirm my fears. There is but one manner in which I can do this. I must trace the life of my uncle's wife backward, minutely and carefully, from this night to a period of six years ago. This is the twenty-fourth of February, fifty-nine. I want to know every record of her life between to-night and the February of the year fifty-three
And your motive is a worthy one
Yes, I wish to clear her from a very dreadful suspicion
Which exists only in your mind
And in the mind of one other person
May I ask who that person is
No, Mr. Dawson
I cannot reveal anything more than what I have already told you. I am a very irresolute, vacillating man in most things. In this matter I am compelled to be decided. I repeat once more that I _must_ know the history of Lucy Graham's life. If you refuse to help me to the small extent in your power, I will find others who will help me. Painful as it would become, I will ask my uncle for the information which you would withhold, rather than be baffled in the first step of my investigation
I cannot express how much you have astonished and alarmed me, Mr. Audley
I can tell you so little about Lady Audley's antecedents, that it would be mere obstinacy to withhold the small amount of information I possess. I have always considered your uncle's wife one of the most amiable of women. I _cannot_ bring myself to think her otherwise. It would be an uprooting of one of the strongest convictions of my life were I compelled to think her otherwise. You wish to follow her life backward from the present hour to the year fifty-three
I do
She was married to your uncle last June twelvemonth, in the midsummer of fifty-seven. She had lived in my house a little more than thirteen months. She became a member of my household upon the fourteenth of May, in the year fifty-six
And she came to you
From a school at Brompton, a school kept by a lady of the name of Vincent. It was Mrs. Vincent's strong recommendation that induced me to receive Miss Graham into my family without any more special knowledge of her antecedents
Did you see this Mrs. Vincent
I did not. I advertised for a governess, and Miss Graham answered my advertisement. In her letter she referred me to Mrs. Vincent, the proprietress of a school in which she was then residing as junior teacher. My time is always so fully occupied, that I was glad to escape the necessity of a day's loss in going from Audley to London to inquire about the young lady's qualifications. I looked for Mrs. Vincent's name in the directory, found it, and concluded that she was a responsible person, and wrote to her. Her reply was perfectly satisfactory;-- Miss Lucy Graham was assiduous and conscientious; as well as fully qualified for the situation I offered. I accepted this reference, and I had no cause to regret what may have been an indiscretion. And now, Mr. Audley, I have told you all that I have the power to tell
Will you be so kind as to give me the address of this Mrs. Vincent
Certainly; she was then living at No. 9 Crescent Villas, Brompton
Ah, to be sure
Crescent Villas -- yes, I have heard the address before from Lady Audley herself. This Mrs. Vincent telegraphed to my uncle's wife early in last September. She was ill -- dying, I believe -- and sent for my lady; but had removed from her old house and was not to be found
Indeed! I never heard Lady Audley mention the circumstance
Perhaps not. It occurred while I was down here. Thank you, Mr. Dawson, for the information you have so kindly and honestly given me. It takes me back two and a-half years in the history of my lady's life; but I have still a blank of three years to fill up before I can exonerate her from my terrible suspicion. Good evening
You'll take a cup of tea with us, Mr. Audley
If you please
But you have not dined, perhaps? Shall I ring and tell them to bring you something a little more substantial than biscuits and transparent bread and butter
No, thank you, Lady Audley. I took some lunch before I left town. I'll trouble you for nothing but a cup of tea
Alicia, my dear
you're not looking well
Perhaps not
What does it matter? I'm growing a philosopher of your school, Robert Audley. What does it matter? Who cares whether I am well or ill
What a spitfire she is
Robert Audley
You needn't pitch into a fellow because he asks you a civil question, Alicia
As to nobody caring about your health, that's nonsense. _I_ care
Sir Harry Towers cares
What are you reading there, Alicia
_Changes and Chances_
A novel
Yes
Who is it by
The author of _Follies and Faults_
Is it interesting
Not particularly
Then I think you might have better manners than to read it while your first cousin is sitting opposite you
especially as he has only come to pay you a flying visit, and will be off to-morrow morning
To-morrow morning
Yes
I shall be obliged to run up to London to-morrow on business, but I shall return the next day, if you will allow me, Lady Audley, and stay here till my uncle recovers
But you are not seriously alarmed about him, are you
You do not think him very ill
No
Thank Heaven, I think there is not the slightest cause for apprehension
But you were closeted such a long time with Mr. Dawson, just now
I was quite alarmed at the length of your conversation. Were you talking of Sir Michael all the time
No; not all the time
Why, what could you find to say to Mr. Dawson, or he to say to you
You are almost strangers to each other
Suppose Mr. Dawson wished to consult me about some law business
Was it that
It would be rather unprofessional to tell you if it were so, my lady
Upon my word, Robert Audley, you are a very agreeable companion
Perhaps the next time you come to the Court you will be good enough to bring your _mind_ with you. By your present inanimate appearance, I should imagine that you had left your intellect, such as it is, somewhere in the Temple. You were never one of the liveliest of people, but latterly you have really grown almost unendurable. I suppose you are in love, Mr. Audley, and are thinking of the honored object of your affections
Shall you or I find my brother's murderer
Mrs. Vincent was in a dying state, according to the telegraphic message
If I do find her, I shall at least succeed in discovering whether that message was genuine
If I were a distinguished Q.C., I could not do this sort of thing
my time would be worth a guinea or so a minute, and I should be retained in the great case of Hoggs vs. Boggs, going forward this very day before a special jury at Westminster Hall. As it is, I can afford to be patient
and missus has been here fifteen months
But you cannot tell where she went on leaving here
No, sir; missus says she believes the lady failed, and that she left sudden like, and didn't want her address to be known in the neighborhood
She _must_ have bought bread
and she is likely to have bought it at the handiest place. I'll try the baker
Can you tell me the address of a Mrs. Vincent, who lived at No. 9 Crescent Villas a year and a half ago
No, I can't
and what's more, I wish I could. That lady owes me upward of eleven pound for bread, and it's rather more than I can afford to lose. If anybody can tell me where she lives, I shall be much obliged to 'em for so doing
If the baker can't find her, how should I find her
If a resolute, sanguine, active and energetic creature, such as the baker, fail to achieve this business, how can a lymphatic wretch like me hope to accomplish it? Where the baker has been defeated, what preposterous folly it would be for me to try to succeed
Eh, what
Can I do anything for you, ma'am? Does Mrs. Vincent owe _you_ money, too
Yes, sir
Mrs. Vincent is in my debt; but it isn't that, sir. I -- I want to know, please, what your business may be with her -- because -- because
You can give me her address if you choose, ma'am. That's what you mean to say, isn't it
You're not connected with -- with the tally business, are you, sir
The _what_, ma'am
I'm sure I beg your pardon, sir
I thought you might have been, you know. Some of the gentlemen who collect for the tally shops do dress so very handsome; and I know Mrs. Vincent owes a good deal of money
My dear madam
I want to know nothing of Mrs. Vincent's affairs. So far from being concerned in what you call _the tally business_, I have not the remotest idea what you mean by that expression. You may mean a political conspiracy; you may mean some new species of taxes. Mrs. Vincent does not owe _me_ any money, however badly she may stand with that awful-looking baker. I never saw her in my life; but I wish to see her to-day for the simple purpose of asking her a few very plain questions about a young lady who once resided in her house. If you know where Mrs. Vincent lives and will give me her address, you will be doing me a great favor
I'm sure you look and speak like a gentleman, sir
and I hope you will excuse me if I've seemed mistrustful like; but poor Mrs. Vincent has had dreadful difficulties, and I'm the only person hereabouts that she's trusted with her addresses. I'm a dressmaker, sir, and I've worked for her for upward of six years, and though she doesn't pay me regular, you know, sir, she gives me a little money on account now and then, and I get on as well as I can. I may tell you where she lives, then, sir? You haven't deceived me, have you
On my honor, no
Well, then sir
it's Acacia Cottage, Peckham Grove. I took a dress there yesterday for Mrs. Vincent
Thank you
I am very much obliged to you, and you may rely upon it, Mrs. Vincent shall not suffer any inconvenience through me
I have beaten the baker, at any rate
Now for the second stage, traveling backward, in my lady's life
a connection of the late Miss Graham
Mr. Audley, I presume
You will pardon me, I hope, for detaining you so long; my duties
It is I who should apologize for intruding upon you
but my motive for calling upon you is a very serious one, and must plead my excuse. You remember the lady whose name I wrote upon my card
Perfectly
May I ask how much you know of that lady's history since her departure from your house
Very little. In point of fact, scarcely anything at all. Miss Graham, I believe, obtained a situation in the family of a surgeon resident in Essex. Indeed, it was I who recommended her to that gentleman. I have never heard from her since she left me
But you have communicated with her
No, indeed
May I ask if you sent a telegraphic dispatch to Miss Graham early in last September, stating that you were dangerously ill, and that you wished to see her
I had no occasion to send such a message
I have never been seriously ill in my life
If I ask you a few straightforward questions about Miss Lucy Graham, madam
Will you do me the favor to answer them without asking my motive in making such inquiries
Most certainly
I know nothing to Miss Graham's disadvantage, and have no justification for making a mystery of the little I do know
Then will you tell me at what date the young lady first came to you
It's not the least use to ask me, Mr. Audley
I'm the most careless creature in the world; I never did, and never could remember dates, though I do all in my power to impress upon my girls how important it is for their future welfare that they should know when William the Conqueror began to reign, and all that kind of thing. But I haven't the remotest idea when Miss Graham came to me, although I know it was ages ago, for it was the very summer I had my peach-colored silk. But we must consult Tonks -- Tonks is sure to be right
Ask Miss Tonks to come to me
I want to see her particularly
Tonks, my dear
this gentleman is a relative of Miss Graham's. Do you remember how long it is since she came to us at Crescent Villas
She came in August, 1854
I think it was the eighteenth of August, but I'm not quite sure that it wasn't the seventeenth. I know it was on a Tuesday
Thank you, Tonks; you are a most invaluable darling
Is there anything else that Tonks or I can tell you, Mr. Audley
Tonks has a far better memory than I have
Can you tell me where Miss Graham came from when she entered your household
Not very precisely
I have a vague notion that Miss Graham said something about coming from the seaside, but she didn't say where, or if she did I have forgotten it. Tonks, did Miss Graham tell you where she came from
Oh, no
Miss Graham told me nothing; she was too clever for that. She knows how to keep her own secrets, in spite of her innocent ways and her curly hair
You think she had secrets
I know she had
all manner of secrets. I wouldn't have engaged such a person as junior teacher in a respectable school, without so much as one word of recommendation from any living creature
You had no reference, then, from Miss Graham
No
I waived that. Miss Graham waived the question of salary; I could not do less than waive the question of reference. She quarreled with her papa, she told me, and she wanted to find a home away from all the people she had ever known. She wished to keep herself quite separate from these people. She had endured so much, she said, young as she was, and she wanted to escape from her troubles. How could I press her for a reference under these circumstances, especially when I saw that she was a perfect lady. You know that Lucy Graham was a perfect lady, Tonks, and it is very unkind for you to say such cruel things about my taking her without a reference
When people make favorites, they are apt to be deceived in them
I never made her a favorite, you jealous Tonks
I never said she was as useful as you, dear. You know I never did
Oh, no
you never said she was useful. She was only ornamental; a person to be shown off to visitors, and to play fantasias on the drawing-room piano
Then you can give me no clew to Miss Graham's previous history
If this woman knows anything to my lady's detriment, she will tell it
She will tell it only too willingly
I have only one more question to ask
It is this: Did Miss Graham leave any books or knick-knacks, or any other kind of property whatever, behind her, when she left your establishment
Not to my knowledge
Yes
She did leave something. She left a box. It's up-stairs in my room. I've got an old bonnet in it. Would you like to see the box
If you will be so good as to allow me
I should very much like to see it
I'll fetch it down
It's not very big
How pitiless these women are to each other
This one knows intuitively that there is some danger to the other lurking beneath my questions. She sniffs the coming trouble to her fellow female creature, and rejoices in it, and would take any pains to help me. What a world it is, and how these women take life out of her hands. Helen Maldon, Lady Audley, Clara Talboys, and now Miss Tonks -- all womankind from beginning to end
The box has been to Italy
Those are the first four letters of the word Turin, and the label is a foreign one
Will you be so good as to let me have a little water and a piece of sponge
I want to get off this upper label. Believe me that I am justified in what I am doing
Shall I take off the label
No, thank you
I can do it very well myself
I need intrude upon you no longer, ladies
I am extremely obliged to you for having afforded me all the information in your power. I wish you good-morning
If that which I have found to-day is no evidence for a jury
it is surely enough to convince my uncle that he has married a designing and infamous woman
I have that in my pocket-book
which forms the connecting link between the woman whose death George Talboys read of in the _Times_ newspaper and the woman who rules in my uncle's house. The history of Lucy Graham ends abruptly on the threshold of Mrs. Vincent's school. She entered that establishment in August, 1854. The schoolmistress and her assistant can tell me this but they cannot tell me whence she came. They cannot give me one clew to the secrets of her life from the day of her birth until the day she entered that house. I can go no further in this backward investigation of my lady's antecedents. What am I to do, then, if I mean to keep my promise to Clara Talboys
My duty is clear enough
not the less clear because it leads me step by step, carrying ruin and desolation with me, to the home I love. I must begin at the other end -- I must begin at the other end, and discover the history of Helen Talboys from the hour of George's departure until the day of the funeral in the churchyard at Ventnor
It will save me a day
I wonder whether settlers in the backwoods of America feel as solitary and strange as I feel to-night
Will you carry that to the nearest hotel for me
that is to say, if I can get a good bed there
You can get thirty beds, I dare say, sir, if you wanted 'em
We ain't over busy at Wildernsea at this time o' year. This way, sir
This is the Victoria Hotel, sir
You wouldn't believe the crowds of company we have down here in the summer
If you would prefer a private room, sir
No, thank you
this room seems quite private enough just now. If you will order me a mutton chop and a pint of sherry, I shall be obliged
Certainly, sir
And I shall be still more obliged if you will favor me with a few minutes' conversation before you do so
With very great pleasure, sir
We see so very little company at this season of the year, that we are only too glad to oblige those gentlemen who do visit us. Any information which I can afford you respecting the neighborhood of Wildernsea and its attractions
I shall be most happy to
But I don't want to know anything about the neighborhood of Wildernsea
I want to ask you a few questions about some people who once lived here
How many years have you lived here
Will it annoy you if I make notes of your replies to my questions
Not at all, sir
Any information which I can afford that is likely to be of ultimate value
Yes, thank you
You have lived here
Six years, sir
Since the year fifty-three
Since November, in the year fifty-two, sir. I was in business at Hull prior to that time. This house was only completed in the October before I entered it
Do you remember a lieutenant in the navy, on half-pay, I believe, at that time, called Maldon
Captain Maldon, sir
Yes, commonly called Captain Maldon. I see you do remember him
Yes, sir. Captain Maldon was one of our best customers. He used to spend his evenings in this very room, though the walls were damp at that time, and we weren't able to paper the place for nearly a twelvemonth afterward. His daughter married a young officer that came here with his regiment, at Christmas time in fifty-two. They were married here, sir, and they traveled on the Continent for six months, and came back here again. But the gentleman ran away to Australia, and left the lady, a week or two after her baby was born. The business made quite a sensation in Wildernsea, sir, and Mrs.-- Mrs.-- I forgot the name
Mrs. Talboys
To be sure, sir, Mrs. Talboys. Mrs. Talboys was very much pitied by the Wildernsea folks, sir, I was going to say, for she was very pretty, and had such nice winning ways that she was a favorite with everybody who knew her
Can you tell me how long Mr. Maldon and his daughter remained at Wildernsea after Mr. Talboys left them
Well -- no, sir
I can't say exactly how long it was. I know Mr. Maldon used to sit here in this very parlor, and tell people how badly his daughter had been treated, and how he'd been deceived by a young man he'd put so much confidence in; but I can't say how long it was before he left Wildernsea. But Mrs. Barkamb could tell you, sir
Mrs. Barkamb
Yes, Mrs. Barkamb is the person who owns No. 17 North Cottages, the house in which Mr. Maldon and his daughter lived. She's a nice, civil spoken, motherly woman, sir, and I'm sure she'll tell you anything you may want to know
Thank you, I will call upon Mrs. Barkamb to-morrow. Stay -- one more question. Should you recognize Mrs. Talboys if you were to see her
Certainly, sir. As sure as I should recognize one of my own daughters
It is such a place as this
that works a strong man's ruin. He comes here, heart whole and happy, with no better experience of women than is to be learned at a flower-show or in a ball-room; with no more familiar knowledge of the creature than he has of the far-away satellites or the remoter planets; with a vague notion that she is a whirling teetotum in pink or blue gauze, or a graceful automaton for the display of milliners' manufacture. He comes to some place of this kind, and the universe is suddenly narrowed into about half a dozen acres; the mighty scheme of creation is crushed into a bandbox. The far-away creatures whom he had seen floating about him, beautiful and indistinct, are brought under his very nose; and before he has time to recover his bewilderment, hey presto, the witchcraft has begun; the magic circle is drawn around him! the spells are at work, the whole formula of sorcery is in full play, and the victim is as powerless to escape as the marble-legged prince in the Eastern story
I should like to live here
and watch the gray sea slowly rolling over the gray sand under the still, gray sky. I should like to live here, and tell the beads upon my rosary, and repent and rest
You were wishing, I suppose, sir, to take one -- be quiet, Dash -- one of the cottages
I come to ask one simple question
I wish to discover the exact date of Mrs. Talboys' departure from Wildernsea. The proprietor of the Victoria Hotel informed me that you were the most likely person to afford me that information
I can give you the date of Captain Maldon's departure
for he left No. 17 considerably in my debt, and I have the whole business in black and white; but with regard to Mrs. Talboys
You are aware that Mrs. Talboys left rather abruptly
I was not aware of that fact
Indeed! Yes, she left abruptly, poor little woman! She tried to support herself after her husband's desertion by giving music lessons; she was a very brilliant pianist, and succeeded pretty well, I believe. But I suppose her father took her money from her, and spent it in public houses. However that might be, they had a very serious misunderstanding one night; and the next morning Mrs. Talboys left Wildernsea, leaving her little boy, who was out at nurse in the neighborhood
But you cannot tell me the date of her leaving
I'm afraid not
and yet, stay. Captain Maldon wrote to me upon the day his daughter left. He was in very great distress, poor old gentleman, and he always came to me in his troubles. If I could find that letter, it might be dated, you know -- mightn't it, now
I've got the letter
and there's a note inside it from Mrs. Talboys
The persons who stole Helen Maldon's love-letters from George's trunk in my chambers might have saved themselves the trouble
My generous friend
Yours in distraction and despair, "HENRY MALDON. 

"NORTH COTTAGES, August16 th, 1854
I am weary of my life here, and wish, if I can, to find a new one. I go out into the world, dissevered from every link which binds me to the hateful past, to seek another home and another fortune. Forgive me if I have been fretful, capricious, changeable. You should forgive me, for you know why I have been so. You know the secret which is the key to my life. "HELEN TALBOYS
You should forgive me, for you know _why_ I have been so. You know the _secret_ which is the key to my life
Did Mr. Maldon hear from his daughter after she had left Wildernsea
Well, I believe he did hear from her
but I didn't see much of the old gentleman after that August. I was obliged to sell him up in November, poor fellow, for he owed me fifteen months' rent; and it was only by selling his poor little bits of furniture that I could get him out of my place. We parted very good friends, in spite of my sending in the brokers; and the old gentleman went to London with the child, who was scarcely a twelvemonth old
I have traced the histories of Lucy Graham and Helen Talboys to a vanishing point
my next business is to discover the history of the woman who lies buried in Ventnor churchyard
Papa is much better
and is very anxious to have you at the Court. For some inexplicable reason, my stepmother has taken it into her head that your presence is extremely desirable, and worries me with her frivolous questions about your movements. So pray come without delay, and set these people at rest. Your affectionate cousin, A.A
So my lady is anxious to know my movements
She is anxious; and she questions her step-daughter in that pretty, childlike manner which has such a bewitching air of innocent frivolity. Poor little creature; poor unhappy little golden-haired sinner; the battle between us seems terribly unfair. Why doesn't she run away while there is still time? I have given her fair warning, I have shown her my cards, and worked openly enough in this business, Heaven knows. Why doesn't she run away
Why doesn't she run away? I would bring no needless shame upon that house, of all other houses upon this wide earth. I would only do my duty to my missing friend, and to that brave and generous man who has pledged his faith to a worthless woman. Heaven knows I have no wish to punish. Heaven knows I was never born to be the avenger of guilt or the persecutor of the guilty. I only wish to do my duty. I will give her one more warning, a full and fair one, and then
Shall I go down to Southampton
and endeavor to discover the history of the woman who died at Ventnor? Shall I work underground, bribing the paltry assistants in that foul conspiracy, until I find my way to the thrice guilty principal? No! not till I have tried other means of discovering the truth. Shall I go to that miserable old man, and charge him with his share in the shameful trick which I believe to have been played upon my poor friend? No; I will not torture that terror-stricken wretch as I tortured him a few weeks ago. I will go straight to that arch-conspirator, and will tear away the beautiful veil under which she hides her wickedness, and will wring from her the secret of my friend's fate, and banish her forever from the house which her presence has polluted
If I could forgive her the wrong done to my friend
I should still abhor her for the misery her guilt must bring upon the man who has believed in her
I will go into the churchyard
and stare at the tombstones. There is nothing I can do that will make me more gloomy than I am
Why did that unaccountable terror seize upon me
Why was it that I saw some strange mystery in my friend's disappearance? Was it a monition, or a monomania? What if I am wrong after all? What if this chain of evidence which I have constructed link by link, is woven out of my own folly? What if this edifice of horror and suspicion is a mere collection of crotchets -- the nervous fancies of a hypochondriacal bachelor? Mr. Harcourt Talboys sees no meaning in the events out of which I have made myself a horrible mystery. I lay the separate links of the chain before him, and he cannot recognize their fitness. He is unable to put them together. Oh, my God, if it should be in myself all this time that the misery lies; if
I have the handwriting in my pocket-book which is the evidence of the conspiracy
It remains for me to discover the darker half of my lady's secret
Who would have believed that Audley church could boast such an organ
When last I was here, the national schoolmaster used to accompany his children by a primitive performance of common chords. I didn't think the old organ had such music in it
If my poor friend, George Talboys, had died in my arms, and I had buried him in this quiet church, in one corner of the vaults over which I tread to-day, how much anguish of mind, vacillation and torment I might have escaped
I should have known his fate -- I should have known his fate! Ah, how much there would have been in that. It is this miserable uncertainty, this horrible suspicion which has poisoned my very life
Half-past one
I shall have to wait four or five dreary hours before my lady comes home from her morning calls -- her pretty visits of ceremony or friendliness. Good Heaven! what an actress this woman is. What an arch trickster -- what an all-accomplished deceiver. But she shall play her pretty comedy no longer under my uncle's roof. I have diplomatized long enough. She has refused to accept an indirect warning. To-night I will speak plainly
I'll have a look at this new organist
who can afford to bury his talents at Audley, and play Mendelssohn's finest fugues for a stipend of sixteen pounds a year
A hand that is stronger than my own is beckoning me onward on the dark road that leads to my lost friend's unknown grave
You are surprised to see me here, Mr. Audley
Very much surprised
I told you that I was coming to Essex. I left home day before yesterday. I was leaving home when I received your telegraphic message. The friend with whom I am staying is Mrs. Martyn, the wife of the new rector of Mount Stanning. I came down this morning to see the village and church, and as Mrs. Martyn had to pay a visit to the school with the curate and his wife, I stopped here and amused myself by trying the old organ. I was not aware till I came here that there was a village called Audley. The place takes its name from your family, I suppose
I believe so
I have a vague recollection of hearing the story of some ancestor who was called Audley of Audley in the reign of Edward the Fourth. The tomb inside the rails near the altar belongs to one of the knights of Audley, but I have never taken the trouble to remember his achievements. Are you going to wait here for your friends, Miss Talboys
Yes; they are to return here for me after they have finished their rounds
And you go back to Mount Stanning with them this afternoon
Yes
You have been ill since I saw you last, Mr. Audley
No, I have not been ill; I have been only harassed, wearied by a hundred doubts and perplexities
How much does she guess? How much does she suspect
What am I in her hands
What am I in the hands of this woman, who has my lost friend's face and the manner of Pallas Athene. She reads my pitiful, vacillating soul, and plucks the thoughts out of my heart with the magic of her solemn brown eyes. How unequal the fight must be between us, and how can I ever hope to conquer against the strength of her beauty and her wisdom
You promised to write to me, Mr. Audley
if you made any discovery which carried you nearer to the mystery of my brother's disappearance. You have not written to me, and I imagine, therefore, that you have discovered nothing
The chain of circumstantial evidence which unites the mystery of your brother's fate with the person whom I suspect
is formed of very slight links. I think that I have added another link to that chain since I saw you in Dorsetshire
And you refuse to tell me what it is that you have discovered
Only until I have discovered more
I thought from your message that you were going to Wildernsea
I have been there
Indeed! It was there that you made some discovery, then
It was
You must remember, Miss Talboys that the sole ground upon which my suspicions rest is the identity of two individuals who have no apparent connection -- the identity of a person who is supposed to be dead with one who is living. The conspiracy of which I believe your brother to have been the victim hinges upon this. If his wife, Helen Talboys, died when the papers recorded her death -- if the woman who lies buried in Ventnor churchyard was indeed the woman whose name is inscribed on the headstone of the grave -- I have no case, I have no clew to the mystery of your brother's fate. I am about to put this to the test. I believe that I am now in a position to play a bold game, and I believe that I shall soon arrive at the truth
You will not suffer my brother's fate to remain a mystery, Mr. Audley
I know that you will do your duty to your friend
I am a lazy, good-for-nothing fellow, Miss Talboys
but if I could restore your brother George to life and happiness, I should care very little for any sacrifice of my own feeling, fear that the most I can do is to fathom the secret of his fate and in doing that I must sacrifice those who are dearer to me than myself
Who is that handsome young man I caught _tete-a-tete_ with you, Clara
He is a Mr. Audley, a friend of my poor brother's
Indeed! He is some relation of Sir Michael Audley, I suppose
Sir Michael Audley
Yes, my dear; the most important personage in the parish of Audley. But we'll call at the Court in a day or two, and you shall see the baronet and his pretty young wife
His young wife
Has Sir Michael Audley lately married, then
Yes. He was a widower for sixteen years, and married a penniless young governess about a year and a half ago. The story is quite romantic, and Lady Audley is considered the belle of the county. But come, my dear Clara, the pony is tired of waiting for us, and we've a long drive before dinner
Will you tell me more about this Lady Audley, Fanny
I want to know all about her. Have you heard her maiden name
Yes; she was a Miss Graham
And she is very pretty
Yes, very, very pretty. Rather a childish beauty though, with large, clear blue eyes, and pale golden ringlets, that fall in a feathery shower over her throat and shoulders
My childish little wife is watching me as I write this -- Ah! how I wish you could see her, Clara! Her eyes are as blue and as clear as the skies on a bright summer's day, and her hair falls about her face like the pale golden halo you see round the head of a Madonna in an Italian picture
So you have come back to us, truant
And now that you have returned, we shall keep you prisoner. We won't let him run away again, will we, Alicia
I have nothing to do with the movements of so erratic an individual
Since Robert Audley has taken it into his head to conduct himself like some ghost-haunted hero in a German story, I have given up attempting to understand him
She's a nice girl
but she's a nuisance. I don't know how it is, but she seems more a nuisance than she used to be
She's a dear girl
a generous-hearted, bouncing, noble English lassie; and yet
And pray where have you been wandering during the last day or two, Mr. Audley
I have been -- in Yorkshire
at the little watering place where my poor friend George Talboys lived at the time of his marriage
I must dress for dinner
I am going to a dinner-party, Mr. Audley; please let me go in
I must ask you to spare me half an hour, Lady Audley
I came down to Essex on purpose to speak to you
What about
What can you want to talk to me about, Mr. Audley
I will tell you when we are alone
He is in love with my step-mother's wax-doll beauty
and it is for her sake he has become such a disconsolate object. He's just the sort of person to fall in love with his aunt
The absurd creature turned as white as a sheet when he saw her
So he can be in love, after all. That slow lump of torpidity he calls his heart can beat, I suppose, once in a quarter of a century; but it seems that nothing but a blue-eyed wax-doll can set it going. I should have given him up long ago if I'd known that his idea of beauty was to be found in a toy-shop
Will you come into the lime-walk, Lady Audley
I wish to talk to you without fear of interruption or observation. I think we could choose no safer place than that. Will you come there with me
If you please
You are shivering, Lady Audley
Yes, I am very cold. I would rather speak to you some other day, please. Let it be to-morrow, if you will. I have to dress for dinner, and I want to see Sir Michael; I have not seen him since ten o'clock this morning. Please let it be to-morrow
I _must_ speak to you, Lady Audley
If I am cruel, it is you who have made me cruel. You might have escaped this ordeal. You might have avoided me. I gave you fair warning. But you have chosen to defy me, and it is your own folly which is to blame if I no longer spare you. Come with me. I tell you again I must speak to you
Why do you bring me to this horrible place to frighten me out of my poor wits
You ought to know how nervous I am
You are nervous, my lady
Yes, dreadfully nervous. I am worth a fortune to poor Mr. Dawson. He is always sending me camphor, and sal volatile, and red lavender, and all kinds of abominable mixtures, but he can't cure me
Do you remember what Macbeth tells his physician, my lady
Mr. Dawson may be very much more clever than the Scottish leech, but I doubt if even _he_ can minister to the mind that is diseased
Who said that my mind was diseased
I say so, my lady
You tell me that you are nervous, and that all the medicines your doctor can prescribe are only so much physic that might as well be thrown to the dogs. Let me be the physician to strike to the root of your malady, Lady Audley. Heaven knows that I wish to be merciful -- that I would spare you as far as it is in my power to spare you in doing justice to others -- but justice must be done. Shall I tell you why you are nervous in this house, my lady
If you can
Because for you this house is haunted
Haunted
Yes, haunted by the ghost of George Talboys
What do you mean
Why do you torment me about this George Talboys, who happens to have taken it into his head to keep out of your way for a few months? Are you going mad, Mr. Audley, and do you select me as the victim of your monomania? What is George Talboys to me that you should worry me about him
He was a stranger to you, my lady, was he not
Of course
What should he be but a stranger
Shall I tell you the story of my friend's disappearance as I read that story, my lady
No
I wish to know nothing of your friend. If he is dead, I am sorry for him. If he lives, I have no wish either to see him or to hear of him. Let me go in to see my husband, if you please, Mr. Audley, unless you wish to detain me in this gloomy place until I catch my death of cold
I wish to detain you until you have heard what I have to say, Lady Audley
I will detain you no longer than is necessary, and when you have heard me you shall take your own course of action
Very well, then; pray lose no time in saying what you have to say
I promise you to attend very patiently
When my friend, George Talboys, returned to England
the thought which was uppermost in his mind was the thought of his wife
Whom he had deserted
At least
I remember your telling us something to that effect when you first told us your friend's story
The thought that was uppermost in his mind was the thought of his wife
His fairest hope in the future was the hope of making her happy, and lavishing upon her the pittance which he had won by the force of his own strong arm in the gold-fields of Australia. I saw him within a few hours of his reaching England, and I was a witness to the joyful pride with which he looked forward to his re-union with his wife. I was also a witness to the blow which struck him to the very heart -- which changed him from the man he had been to a creature as unlike that former self as one human being can be unlike another. The blow which made that cruel change was the announcement of his wife's death in the _Times_ newspaper. I now believe that that announcement was a black and bitter lie
Indeed
and what reason could any one have for announcing the death of Mrs. Talboys, if Mrs. Talboys had been alive
The lady herself might have had a reason
What reason
How if she had taken advantage of George's absence to win a richer husband? How if she had married again, and wished to throw my poor friend off the scent by this false announcement
Your suppositions are rather ridiculous, Mr. Audley
it is to be hoped that you have some reasonable grounds for them
I have examined a file of each of the newspapers published in Chelmsford and Colchester
and I find in one of the Colchester papers, dated July the 2d, 1850, a brief paragraph among numerous miscellaneous scraps of information copied from other newspapers, to the effect that a Mr. George Talboys, an English gentleman, had arrived at Sydney from the gold-fields, carrying with him nuggets and gold-dust to the amount of twenty thousand pounds, and that he had realized his property and sailed for Liverpool in the fast-sailing clipper _Argus_. This is a very small fact, of course, Lady Audley, but it is enough to prove that any person residing in Essex in the July of the year fifty-seven, was likely to become aware of George Talboys' return from Australia. Do you follow me
Not very clearly
What have the Essex papers to do with the death of Mrs. Talboys
We will come to that by-and-by, Lady Audley. I say that I believe the announcement in the _Times_ to have been a false announcement, and a part of the conspiracy which was carried out by Helen Talboys and Lieutenant Maldon against my poor friend
A conspiracy
Yes, a conspiracy concocted by an artful woman, who had speculated upon the chances of her husband's death, and had secured a splendid position at the risk of committing a crime; a bold woman, my lady, who thought to play her comedy out to the end without fear of detection; a wicked woman, who did not care what misery she might inflict upon the honest heart of the man she betrayed; but a foolish woman, who looked at life as a game of chance, in which the best player was likely to hold the winning cards, forgetting that there is a Providence above the pitiful speculators, and that wicked secrets are never permitted to remain long hidden. If this woman of whom I speak had never been guilty of any blacker sin than the publication of that lying announcement in the _Times_ newspaper, I should still hold her as the most detestable and despicable of her sex -- the most pitiless and calculating of human creatures. That cruel lie was a base and cowardly blow in the dark; it was the treacherous dagger-thrust of an infamous assassin
But how do you know that the announcement was a false one
You told us that you had been to Ventnor with Mr. Talboys to see his wife's grave. Who was it who died at Ventnor if it was not Mrs. Talboys
Ah, Lady Audley
that is a question which only two or three people can answer, and one or other of those persons shall answer it to me before long. I tell you, my lady, that I am determined to unravel the mystery of George Talboy's death. Do you think I am to be put off by feminine prevarication -- by womanly trickery? No! Link by link I have put together the chain of evidence, which wants but a link here and there to be complete in its terrible strength. Do you think I will suffer myself to be baffled? Do you think I shall fail to discover those missing links? No, Lady Audley, I shall not fail, for _I know where to look for them!_ There is a fair-haired woman at Southampton -- a woman called Plowson, who has some share in the secrets of the father of my friend's wife. I have an idea that she can help me to discover the history of the woman who lies buried in Ventnor churchyard, and I will spare no trouble in making that discovery, unless
Unless what
Unless the woman I wish to save from degradation and punishment accepts the mercy I offer her, and takes warning while there is still time
She would be a very foolish woman if she suffered herself to be influenced by any such absurdity
You are hypochondriacal, Mr. Audley, and you must take camphor, or red lavender, or sal volatile. What can be more ridiculous than this idea which you have taken into your head? You lose your friend George Talboys in rather a mysterious manner -- that is to say, that gentleman chooses to leave England without giving you due notice. What of that? You confess that he became an altered man after his wife's death. He grew eccentric and misanthropical; he affected an utter indifference as to what became of him. What more likely, then, than that he grew tired of the monotony of civilized life, and ran away to those savage gold-fields to find a distraction for his grief? It is rather a romantic story, but by no means an uncommon one. But you are not satisfied with this simple interpretation of your friend's disappearance, and you build up some absurd theory of a conspiracy which has no existence except in your own overheated brain. Helen Talboys is dead. The _Times_ newspaper declares she is dead. Her own father tells you that she is dead. The headstone of the grave in Ventnor churchyard bears record of her death. By what right
by what right, Mr. Audley, do you come to me, and torment me about George Talboys -- by what right do you dare to say that his wife is still alive
By the right of circumstantial evidence, Lady Audley
by the right of that circumstantial evidence which will sometimes fix the guilt of a man's murder upon that person who, on the first hearing of the case, seems of all other men the most unlikely to be guilty
What circumstantial evidence
The evidence of time and place. The evidence of handwriting. When Helen Talboys left her father's at Wildernsea, she left a letter behind her -- a letter in which she declared that she was weary of her old life, and that she wished to seek a new home and a new fortune. That letter is in my possession
Indeed
Shall I tell you whose handwriting resembles that of Helen Talboys so closely, that the most dexterous expert could perceive no distinction between the two
A resemblance between the handwriting of two women is no very uncommon circumstance now-a-days
I could show you the caligraphies of half-a-dozen female correspondents, and defy you to discover any great difference in them
But what if the handwriting is a very uncommon one, presenting marked peculiarities by which it may be recognized among a hundred
Why, in that case the coincidence is rather curious
but it is nothing more than a coincidence. You cannot deny the fact of Helen Talboys death on the ground that her handwriting resembles that of some surviving person
But if a series of such coincidences lead up to the same point
Helen Talboys left her father's house, according to the declaration in her own handwriting, because she was weary of her old life, and wished to begin a new one. Do you know what I infer from this
I have not the least idea
and as you have detained me in this gloomy place nearly half-an-hour, I must beg that you will release me, and let me go and dress for dinner
No, Lady Audley
no, Lady Audley
I have told you that womanly prevarication will not help you; I tell you now that defiance will not serve you. I have dealt fairly with you, and have given you fair warning. I gave you indirect notice of your danger two months ago
What do you mean
You did not choose to take that warning, Lady Audley
and the time has come in which I must speak very plainly to you. Do you think the gifts which you have played against fortune are to hold you exempt from retribution? No, my lady, your youth and beauty, your grace and refinement, only make the horrible secret of your life more horrible. I tell you that the evidence against you wants only one link to be strong enough for your condemnation, and that link shall be added. Helen Talboys never returned to her father's house. When she deserted that poor old father, she went away from his humble shelter with the declared intention of washing her hands of that old life. What do people generally do when they wish to begin a new existence -- to start for a second time in the race of life, free from the incumbrances that had fettered their first journey. _They change their names_, Lady Audley. Helen Talboys deserted her infant son -- she went away from Wildernsea with the predetermination of sinking her identity. She disappeared as Helen Talboys upon the16 th of August, 1854, and upon the17 th of that month she reappeared as Lucy Graham, the friendless girl who undertook a profitless duty in consideration of a home in which she was asked no questions
You are mad, Mr. Audley
You are mad, and my husband shall protect me from your insolence. What if this Helen Talboys ran away from her home upon one day, and I entered my employer's house upon the next, what does that prove
By itself, very little
but with the help of other evidence
What evidence
The evidence of two labels, pasted one over the other, upon a box left by you in possession of Mrs. Vincent, the upper label bearing the name of Miss Graham, the lower that of Mrs. George Talboys
God help her, poor, wretched creature
She knows now that she is lost. I wonder if the judges of the land feel as I do now when they put on the black cap and pass sentence of death upon some poor, shivering wretch, who has never done them any wrong. Do they feel a heroic fervor of virtuous indignation, or do they suffer this dull anguish which gnaws my vitals as I talk to this helpless woman
Those two labels are in my possession, Lady Audley
I took them from the box left by you at Crescent Villas. I took them in the presence of Mrs. Vincent and Miss Tonks. Have you any proofs to offer against this evidence? You say to me, 'I am Lucy Graham and I have nothing whatever to do with Helen Talboys.' In that case you will produce witnesses who will declare your antecedents. Where had you been living prior to your appearance at Crescent Villas? You must have friends, relations, connections, who can come forward to prove as much as this for you? If you were the most desolate creature upon this earth, you would be able to point to someone who could identify you with the past
Yes
if I were placed in a criminal dock I could, no doubt, bring forward witnesses to refute your absurd accusation. But I am not in a criminal dock, Mr. Audley, and I do not choose to do anything but laugh at your ridiculous folly. I tell you that you are mad! If you please to say that Helen Talboys is not dead, and that I am Helen Talboys, you may do so. If you choose to go wandering about in the places in which I have lived, and to the places in which this Mrs. Talboys has lived, you must follow the bent of your own inclination, but I would warn you that such fancies have sometimes conducted people, as apparently sane as yourself, to the life-long imprisonment of a private lunatic-asylum
She would be capable of any new crime to shield her from the consequences of the old one
She would be capable of using her influence with my uncle to place me in a mad-house
I have shown her my cards
but she has kept hers hidden from me. The mask that she wears is not to be plucked away. My uncle would rather think me mad than believe her guilty
What a coward I am to think of myself or my own danger
The more I see of this woman the more reason I have to dread her influence upon others; the more reason to wish her far away from this house
It was somewhere in this garden that she met George Talboys upon the day of his disappearance
I wonder where it was they met; I wonder where it was that he looked into her cruel face and taxed her with her falsehood
It is to be a duel to the death, then, my lady
You refuse to accept my warning. You refuse to run away and repent of your wickedness in some foreign place, far from the generous gentleman you have deceived and fooled by your false witcheries. You choose to remain here and defy me
I do
It is no fault of mine if my husband's nephew goes mad, and chooses me for the victim of his monomania
So be it, then, my lady
My friend George Talboys was last seen entering these gardens by the little iron gate by which we came in to-night. He was last heard inquiring for you. He was seen to enter these gardens, but he was never seen to leave them. I believe that he met his death within the boundary of these grounds; and that his body lies hidden below some quiet water, or in some forgotten corner of this place. I will have such a search made as shall level that house to the earth and root up every tree in these gardens, rather than I will fail in finding the grave of my murdered friend
You shall never live to do this
_I will kill you first_. Why have you tormented me so? Why could you not let me alone? What harm had I ever done you that you should make yourself my persecutor, and dog my steps, and watch my looks, and play the spy upon me? Do you want to drive me mad? Do you know what it is to wrestle with a mad-woman? No
you do not, or you would never
Go away, Mr. Audley
You are mad, I tell you, you are mad
I am going, my lady
I would have condoned your crimes out of pity to your wretcheness. You have refused to accept my mercy. I wished to have pity upon the living. I shall henceforth only remember my duty to the dead
I have been looking for you everywhere, Robert
Papa has come down to the library, and will be glad to see you
Good Heaven
can these two women be of the same clay? Can this frank, generous-hearted girl, who cannot conceal any impulse of her innocent nature, be of the same flesh and blood as that wretched creature whose shadow falls upon the path beside me
I don't know what has come to your cousin, my dear Alicia
He is so absent-minded and eccentric as to be quite beyond my comprehension
Indeed
and yet I should imagine, from the length of your _tete-a-tete_, that you had made some effort to understand him
Oh, yes
my lady and I understand each other very well; but as it is growing late I will wish you good-evening, ladies. I shall sleep to-night at Mount Stanning, as I have some business to attend to up there, and I will come down and see my uncle to-morrow
What, Robert
you surely won't go away without seeing papa
Yes, my dear
I am a little disturbed by some disagreeable business in which I am very much concerned, and I would rather not see my uncle. Good-night, Alicia. I will come or write to-morrow
What in goodness' name is the matter with my Cousin Robert
What does he mean by these absurd goings-on? Some disagreeable business that disturbs him, indeed! I suppose the unhappy creature has had a brief forced upon him by some evil-starred attorney, and is sinking into a state of imbecility from a dim consciousness of his own incompetence
Have you ever studied your cousin's character, Alicia
Studied his character! No, Lady Audley. Why should I study his character
There is very little study required to convince anybody that he is a lazy, selfish Sybarite, who cares for nothing in the world except his own ease and comfort
But have you never thought him eccentric
Eccentric
Well, yes -- I believe that is the excuse generally made for such people. I suppose Bob is eccentric
I have never heard you speak of his father and mother
Do you remember them
I never saw his mother. She was a Miss Dalrymple, a very dashing girl, who ran away with my uncle, and lost a very handsome fortune in consequence. She died at Nice when poor Bob was five years old
Did you ever hear anything particular about her
How do you mean 'particular
Did you ever hear that she was eccentric -- what people call 'odd
Oh, no
My aunt was a very reasonable woman, I believe, though she did marry for love. But you must remember that she died before I was born, and I have not, therefore, felt very much curiosity about her
But you recollect your uncle, I suppose
My Uncle Robert
Oh, yes, I remember him very well, indeed
Was _he_ eccentric -- I mean to say, peculiar in his habits, like your cousin
Yes, I believe Robert inherits all his absurdities from his father. My uncle expressed the same indifference for his fellow-creatures as my cousin, but as he was a good husband, an affectionate father, and a kind master, nobody ever challenged his opinions
But he _was_ eccentric
Yes; I suppose he was generally thought a little eccentric
Ah
I thought as much. Do you know, Alicia, that madness is more often transmitted from father to daughter, and from mother to daughter than from mother to son? Your cousin, Robert Audley, is a very handsome young man, and I believe, a very good-hearted young man, but he must be watched, Alicia, for he is _mad_
Mad
you are dreaming, my lady, or -- or -- you are trying to frighten me
I only wish to put you on your guard, Alicia
Mr. Audley may be as you say, merely eccentric; but he has talked to me this evening in a manner that has filled me with absolute terror, and I believe that he is going mad? I shall speak very seriously to Sir Michael this very night
Speak to papa
you surely won't distress papa by suggesting such a possibility
I shall only put him on his guard, my dear Alicia
But he'll never believe you
he will laugh at such an idea
No, Alicia; he will believe anything that I tell him
Why, my darling
I have been thinking of you and waiting for you for an hour. Where have you been, and what have you been doing
I have been to Chelmsford
shopping; and
And what, my dear
what have you been doing since you came from Chelmsford? I heard a carriage stop at the door an hour ago. It was yours, was it not
Yes, I came home an hour ago
And what have you been doing since you came home
What have you been doing since you came home, my dear
What has kept you so long away from me
I have been -- talking -- to -- Mr. Robert Audley
Robert
is Robert here
He was here a little while ago
And is here still, I suppose
No, he has gone away
Gone away
What do you mean, my darling
I mean that your nephew came to the Court this afternoon. Alicia and I found him idling about the gardens. He stayed here till about a quarter of an hour ago talking to me, and then he hurried off without a word of explanation; except, indeed, some ridiculous excuse about business at Mount Stanning
Business at Mount Stanning! Why, what business can he possibly have in that out-of-the-way place? He has gone to sleep at Mount Stanning, then, I suppose? "Yes; I think he said something to that effect
Upon my word
I think that boy is half mad
It is coming -- it is coming; I can twist him which way I like. I can put black before him, and if I say it is white, he will believe me
I wanted to come to you, you know, dear
I wanted to come to you directly I got home, but Mr. Audley insisted upon my stopping to talk to him
But what about, my love
What could Robert have to say to you
Lucy, Lucy
what is the meaning of this? My love, my love! what has happened to distress you in this manner
My darlings, you are henceforth motherless
Lucy
Lucy, I insist upon your telling me what and who has distressed you. I insist upon it. Whoever has annoyed you shall answer to me for your grief. Come, my love, tell me directly what it is
Tell me what it is, my dear
I am very silly
but really he has made me quite hysterical
Who -- who has made you hysterical
Your nephew -- Mr. Robert Audley
Robert
Lucy, what do you mean
I told you that Mr. Audley insisted upon my going into the lime-walk, dear
He wanted to talk to me, he said, and I went, and he said such horrible things that
What horrible things, Lucy
What did he say, Lucy
Oh, my dear love, how can I tell you
I know that I shall distress you -- or you will laugh at me, and then
Laugh at you? no, Lucy
My dear
have you ever -- I am so afraid of vexing you -- have you ever thought Mr. Audley a little -- a little
A little what, my darling
A little out of his mind
Out of his mind
My dear girl, what are you thinking of
You said just now, dear, that you thought he was half mad
Did I, my love
I don't remember saying it, and it was a mere _facon de parler_, that meant nothing whatever. Robert may be a little eccentric -- a little stupid, perhaps -- he mayn't be overburdened with wits, but I don't think he has brains enough for madness. I believe it's generally your great intellects that get out of order
But madness is sometimes hereditary
Mr. Audley may have inherited
He has inherited no madness from his father's family
The Audleys have never peopled private lunatic asylums or feed mad doctors
Nor from his mother's family
Not to my knowledge
People generally keep these things a secret
There may have been madness in your sister-in-law's family
I don't think so, my dear
But, Lucy, tell me what, in Heaven's name, has put this idea into your head
I have been trying to account for your nephew's conduct. I can account for it in no other manner. If you had heard the things he said to me to-night, Sir Michael, you too might have thought him mad
But what did he say, Lucy
I can scarcely tell you. You can see how much he has stupefied and bewildered me. I believe he has lived too long alone in those solitary Temple chambers. Perhaps he reads too much, or smokes too much. You know that some physicians declare madness to be a mere illness of the brain -- an illness to which any one is subject, and which may be produced by given causes, and cured by given means
Why should he not be mad
People are insane for years and years before their insanity is found out. _They_ know that they are mad, but they know how to keep their secret; and, perhaps, they may sometimes keep it till they die. Sometimes a paroxysm seizes them, and in an evil hour they betray themselves. They commit a crime, perhaps. The horrible temptation of opportunity assails them; the knife is in their hand, and the unconscious victim by their side. They may conquer the restless demon and go away and die innocent of any violent deed; but they _may_ yield to the horrible temptation -- the frightful, passionate, hungry craving for violence and horror. They sometimes yield and are lost
Robert Audley is mad
What is one of the strangest diagnostics of madness -- what is the first appalling sign of mental aberration? The mind becomes stationary; the brain stagnates; the even current of reflection is interrupted; the thinking power of the brain resolves itself into a monotone. As the waters of a tideless pool putrefy by reason of their stagnation, the mind becomes turbid and corrupt through lack of action; and the perpetual reflection upon one subject resolves itself into monomania. Robert Audley is a monomaniac. The disappearance of his friend, George Talboys, grieved and bewildered him. He dwelt upon this one idea until he lost the power of thinking of anything else. The one idea looked at perpetually became distorted to his mental vision. Repeat the commonest word in the English language twenty times, and before the twentieth repetition you will have begun to wonder whether the word which you repeat is really the word you mean to utter. Robert Audley has thought of his friend's disappearance until the one idea has done its fatal and unhealthy work. He looks at a common event with a vision that is diseased, and he distorts it into a gloomy horror engendered of his own monomania. If you do not want to make me as mad as he is, you must never let me see him again. He declared to-night that George Talboys was murdered in this place, and that he will root up every tree in the garden, and pull down every brick in the house in search for
Pull down this house
George Talboys murdered at Audley Court! Did Robert say this, Lucy
He said something of that kind -- something that frightened me very much
Then he must be mad
I'm bewildered by what you tell me. Did he really say this, Lucy, or did you misunderstand him
I -- I -- don't think I did
You saw how frightened I was when I first came in. I should not have been so much agitated if he hadn't said something horrible
To be sure, my darling, to be sure
What could have put such a horrible fancy into the unhappy boy's head. This Mr. Talboys -- a perfect stranger to all of us -- murdered at Audley Court! I'll go to Mount Stanning to-night, and see Robert. I have known him ever since he was a baby, and I cannot be deceived in him. If there is really anything wrong, he will not be able to conceal it from me
That is rather an open question
It is generally a stranger who is the first to observe any psychological peculiarity
But you must not go to Mount Stanning, my dear darling
Remember that you are under strict orders to stay in doors until the weather is milder, and the sun shines upon this cruel ice-bound country
That's true, Lucy
we must obey Mr. Dawson. I suppose Robert will come to see me to-morrow
Yes, dear. I think he said he would
Then we must wait till to-morrow, my darling. I can't believe that there really is anything wrong with the poor boy -- I can't believe it, Lucy
Then how do you account for this extraordinary delusion about this Mr. Talboys
I don't know, Lucy -- I don't know
It is always so difficult to believe that any one of the calamities that continually befall our fellow-men will ever happen to us. I can't believe that my nephew's mind is impaired -- I can't believe it. I -- I'll get him to stop here, Lucy, and I'll watch him closely. I tell you, my love, if there is anything wrong I am sure to find it out. I can't be mistaken in a young man who has always been the same to me as my own son. But, my darling, why were you so frightened by Robert's wild talk? It could not affect you
You must think me very strong-minded, Sir Michael
if you imagine I can hear of these sort of things indifferently. I know I shall never be able to see Mr. Audley again
And you shall not, my dear -- you shall not
You said just now you would have him here
But I will not, my darling girl, if his presence annoys you. Good Heaven! Lucy, can you imagine for a moment that I have any higher wish than to promote your happiness? I will consult some London physician about Robert, and let him discover if there is really anything the matter with my poor brother's only son. _You_ shall not be annoyed, Lucy
You must think me very unkind, dear
and I know I _ought_ not to be annoyed by the poor fellow; but he really seems to have taken some absurd notion into his head about me
About _you_, Lucy
Yes, dear. He seems to connect me in some vague manner -- which I cannot quite understand -- with the disappearance of this Mr. Talboys
Impossible, Lucy! You must have misunderstood him
I don't think so
Then he must be mad
he must be mad. I will wait till he goes back to town, and then send some one to his chambers to talk to him. Good Heaven! what a mysterious business this is
I fear I have distressed you, darling
Yes, my dear, I am very much distressed by what you have told me; but you were quite right to talk to me frankly about this dreadful business. I must think it over, dearest, and try and decide what is best to be done
How good you have always been to me, dear
You would never let any one influence you against me, would you, dear
Influence me against you
No, my love
Because you know, dear
there are wicked people as well as mad people in the world, and there may be some persons to whose interest it would be to injure me
They had better not try it, then, my dear
they would find themselves in rather a dangerous position if they did
My own dear darling
I know you love me. And now I must run away, dear, for it's past seven o'clock. I was engaged to dine at Mrs. Montford's, but I must send a groom with a message of apology, for Mr. Audley has made me quite unfit for company. I shall stay at home and nurse you, dear. You'll go to bed very early, won't you, and take great care of yourself
Yes, dear
I have been afraid of you, Mr. Robert Audley
but perhaps the time may come in which you will have cause to be afraid of me
If Bob was good for anything I could have told him how unhappy I am
but I may just as well tell Caesar my troubles for any consolation I should get from Cousin Robert
I shall leave you, dear
If you can sleep, so much the better. If you wish to read, the books and papers are close to you. I will leave the doors between the rooms open, and I shall hear your voice if you call me
Divinity of Hell
This woman is our slave, let us see what she will become under our guidance
I was not wicked when I was young
I was only thoughtless. I never did any harm -- at least, wilfully. Have I ever been really _wicked_, I wonder
My worst wickednesses have bean the result of wild impulses, and not of deeply-laid plots. I am not like the women I have read of, who have lain night after night in the horrible darkness and stillness, planning out treacherous deeds, and arranging every circumstance of an appointed crime. I wonder whether they suffered -- those women -- whether they ever suffered as
You are mad, Mr. Robert Audley
you are mad, and your fancies are a madman's fancies. I know what madness is. I know its signs and tokens, and I say that you are mad
Dare I defy him
Dare I? dare I? Will he stop, now that he has once gone so far? Will he stop for fear of me? Will he stop for fear of me, when the thought of what his uncle must suffer has not stopped him? Will anything stop him -- but death
death
I can't plot horrible things
my brain isn't strong enough, or I'm not wicked enough, or brave enough. If I met Robert Audley in those lonely gardens, as I
Come in
I beg pardon, my lady, for intruding without leave
but I thought I might venture to come straight up without waiting for permission
Yes, yes, Phoebe, to be sure. Take off your bonnet, you wretched, cold-looking creature, and come sit down here
Sit down here, Phoebe
sit down here and talk to me; I'm very glad you came here to-night. I was horribly lonely in this dreary place
Sir Michael is better, I hope, my lady
Yes, Phoebe, much better. He is asleep. You may close that door
I am very, very unhappy, Phoebe
wretchedly miserable
About the -- secret
I am cruelly persecuted and harassed, Phoebe Marks
I am pursued and tormented by a man whom I never injured, whom I have never wished to injure. I am never suffered to rest by this relentless tormentor, and
I think I know whom you mean, my lady
I think I know who it is who is so cruel to you
Oh, of course
my secrets are everybody's secrets. You know all about it, no doubt
The person is a gentleman -- is he not, my lady
Yes
A gentleman who came to the Castle Inn two months ago, when I warned you
Yes, yes
I thought so. The same gentleman is at our place to-night, my lady
At the Castle Inn
I might have known as much. He has gone there to wring my secrets from your husband. Fool
do you want to destroy me that you have left those two men together
I didn't come away of my own free will, my lady
no one could have been more unwilling to leave the house than I was this night. I was sent here
Who sent you here
Luke, my lady. You can't tell how hard he can be upon me if I go against him
Why did he send you
Indeed, my lady
I didn't want to come. I told Luke that it was too bad for us to worry you, first asking this favor, and then asking that, and never leaving you alone for a month together; but -- but -- he bore me down with his loud, blustering talk, and he made me come
Yes, yes
I know that. I want to know why you have come
Why, you know, my lady
Luke is very extravagant; and all I can say to him, I can't get him to be careful or steady. He's not sober; and when he's drinking with a lot of rough countrymen, and drinking, perhaps even more than they do, it isn't likely that his head can be very clear for accounts. If it hadn't been for me we should have been ruined before this; and hard as I've tried, I haven't been able to keep the ruin off. You remember giving me the money for the brewer's bill, my lady
Yes, I remember very well
for I wanted that money to pay my own bills
I know you did, my lady, and it was very, very hard for me to have to come and ask you for it, after all that we'd received from you before. But that isn't the worst: when Luke sent me down here to beg the favor of that help he never told me that the Christmas rent was still owing; but it was, my lady, and it's owing now, and -- and there's a bailiff in the house to-night, and we're to be sold up to-morrow unless
Unless I pay your rent, I suppose
I might have guessed what was coming
Indeed, indeed, my lady, I wouldn't have asked it
but he made me come
Yes
he made you come; and he will make you come whenever he pleases, and whenever he wants money for the gratification of his low vices; and you and he are my pensioners as long as I live, or as long as I have any money to give; for I suppose when my purse is empty and my credit ruined, you and your husband will turn upon me and sell me to the highest bidder. Do you know, Phoebe Marks, that my jewel-case has been half emptied to meet your claims? Do you know that my pin-money, which I thought such a princely allowance when my marriage settlement was made, and when I was a poor governess at Mr. Dawson's, Heaven help me! my pin-money has been overdrawn half a year to satisfy your demands? What can I do to appease you? Shall I sell my Marie Antoinette cabinet, or my pompadour china, Leroy's and Benson's ormolu clocks, or my Gobelin tapestried chairs and ottomans? How shall I satisfy you next
Oh, my lady, my lady
don't be so cruel to me; you know, you know that it isn't I who want to impose upon you
I know nothing
except that I am the most miserable of women. Let me think
Hold your tongue, girl, and let me think of this business, if I can
Robert Audley is with your husband
These two men are together, and there are bailiffs in the house, and your brutal husband is no doubt brutally drunk by this time, and brutally obstinate and ferocious in his drunkenness. If I refuse to pay this money his ferocity will be multiplied by a hundredfold. There's little use in discussing that matter. The money must be paid
But if you do pay it
I hope you will impress upon Luke that it is the last money you will ever give him while he stops in that house
Why
Because I want Luke to leave the Castle
But why do you want him to leave
Oh, for ever so many reasons, my lady
He's not fit to be the landlord of a public-house. I didn't know that when I married him, or I would have gone against the business, and tried to persuade him to take to the farming line. Not that I suppose he'd have given up his own fancy, either; for he's obstinate enough, as you know, my lady. He's not fit for his present business. He's scarcely ever sober after dark; and when he's drunk he gets almost wild, and doesn't seem to know what he does. We've had two or three narrow escapes with him already
Narrow escapes
What do you mean
Why, we've run the risk of being burnt in our beds through his carelessness
Burnt in your beds through his carelessness! Why, how was that
You know what a queer old place the Castle is, my lady; all tumble-down wood-work, and rotten rafters, and such like. The Chelmsford Insurance Company won't insure it; for they say if the place did happen to catch fire of a windy night it would blaze away like so much tinder, and nothing in the world could save it. Well, Luke knows this; and the landlord has warned him of it times and often, for he lives close against us, and he keeps a pretty sharp eye upon all my husband's goings on; but when Luke's tipsy he doesn't know what he's about, and only a week ago he left a candle burning in one of the out-houses, and the flame caught one of the rafters of the sloping roof, and if it hadn't been for me finding it out when I went round the house the last thing, we should have all been burnt to death, perhaps. And that's the third time the same kind of thing has happened in the six months we've had the place, and you can't wonder that I'm frightened, can you, my lady
Burnt in your beds
It would have been a good thing for me if that precious creature, your husband, had been burnt in his bed before to-night
I'll give you the money to send this bailiff away
I must give you the last sovereign in my purse, but what of that? you know as well as I do that I dare not refuse you
The money is in my dressing-room
I will go and fetch it
Oh, my lady
I forgot something; I was in such a way about this business that I quite forgot it
Quite forgot what
A letter that was given me to bring to you, my lady, just before I left home
What letter
A letter from Mr. Audley. He heard my husband mention that I was coming down here, and he asked me to carry this letter
Give it me -- give it me
let me see what more he has to say
Should Mrs. George Talboys really have survived the date of her supposed death, as recorded in the public prints, and upon the tombstone in Ventnor churchyard, and should she exist in the person of the lady suspected and accused by the writer of this, there can be no great difficulty in finding some one able and willing to identify her. Mrs. Barkamb, the owner of North Cottages, Wildernsea, would no doubt consent to throw some light upon this matter; either to dispel a delusion or to confirm a suspicion. "ROBERT AUDLEY. 

"March 3, 1859. 

"The Castle Inn, Mount Stanning
If he stood before me now, and I could kill him
I would do it -- I would do it
If they make him believe, how wretched he will be
He will do it
he will do it, unless I get him into a lunatic-asylum first; or unless
He will do it, unless some strange calamity befalls him, and silences him for ever
My lady
you are not going out to-night
Yes, I am, Phoebe
I am going to Mount Stanning with you to see this bailiff, and to pay and dismiss him myself
But, my lady, you forget what the time is; you can't go out at such an hour
The stables are always locked, and the men in bed by ten o'clock
when we are at home. It will make a terrible hubbub to get a carriage ready; but yet I dare say one of the servants could manage the matter quietly for me
But why should you go to-night, my lady
To-morrow will do quite as well. A week hence will do as well. Our landlord would take the man away if he had your promise to settle the debt
Now, Phoebe Marks, listen to me
Listen to me, Phoebe
I am going to the Castle Inn to-night; whether it is early or late is of very little consequence to me; I have set my mind upon going, and I shall go. You have asked me why, and I have told you. I am going in order that I may pay this debt myself; and that I may see for myself that the money I give is applied to the purpose for which I give it. There is nothing out of the common course of life in my doing this. I am going to do what other women in my position very often do. I am going to assist a favorite servant
But it's getting on for twelve o'clock, my lady
If my going to your house to pay this man should be known
I am ready to answer for my conduct; but I would rather that the business should be kept quiet. I think that I can leave this house without being seen by any living creature, if you will do as I tell you
I will do anything you wish, my lady
Then you will wish me good-night presently, when my maid comes into the room, and you will suffer her to show you out of the house. You will cross the courtyard and wait for me in the avenue upon the other side of the archway. It may be half an hour before I am able to join you, for I must not leave my room till the servants have all gone to bed, but you may wait for me patiently, for come what may I will join you
I did not know that it was so late, Martin
I have been talking with Mrs. Marks and have let the time slip by me. I sha'n't want anything to-night, so you may go to bed when you please
Thank you, my lady
I'd better show Mrs. Marks out, my lady, hadn't I
before I go to bed
Oh, yes, to be sure; you can let Phoebe out. All the other servants have gone to bed, then, I suppose
Yes, my lady
We have been terrible dissipated up here, Phoebe
Good-night. You may tell your husband that his rent shall be paid
Thank you very much, my lady, and good-night
Martin sleeps at the top of the house
half a mile away from this room. In ten minutes I may safely make my escape
I will wait ten minutes
not a moment beyond, before I enter on my new peril
How glad she will be if any disgrace befalls me
how she will rejoice if I am driven out of this house
No matter
I could not have left it burning. I shall know how to find my way through the house when I come back. I have left all the doors ajar
I feel as if I were running away
I feel as if I were running away secretly in the dead of the night, to lose myself and be forgotten. Perhaps it would be wiser in me to run away, to take this man's warning, and escape out of his power forever. If I were to run away and disappear as -- as George Talboys disappeared. But where could I go? what would become of me? I have no money; my jewels are not worth a couple of hundred pounds, now that I have got rid of the best part of them. What could I do? I must go back to the old life, the old, hard, cruel, wretched life -- the life of poverty, and humiliation, and vexation, and discontent. I should have to go back and wear myself out in that long struggle, and die -- as my mother died, perhaps
No! Mr. Robert Audley
I will not go back -- I will not go back. If the struggle between us is to be a duel to the death, you shall not find me drop my weapon
Now, Phoebe
it is three miles from here to Mount Stanning, isn't it
Yes, my lady
Then we can walk the distance in an hour and a half
Your beautiful husband will sit up for you, I suppose, Phoebe
Oh, yes, my lady; he's sure to sit up. He'll be drinking with the man, I dare say
The man! What man
The man that's in possession, my lady
Ah, to be sure
He has not gone to bed, Phoebe
But there is no other light burning at the inn. I suppose Mr. Audley is in bed and asleep
Yes, my lady, I suppose so
You are sure he was going to stay at the Castle to night
Oh, yes, my lady. I helped the girl to get his room ready before I came away
I'll tell him you're here, my lady
I know he'll be tipsy. You -- you won't be offended, my lady, if he should say anything rude? You know it wasn't my wish that you should come
Yes, yes
I know that. What should I care for his rudeness! Let him say what he likes
So you've condescended to come home at last, ma'am
I thought you was never coming no more
I -- I've been longer than I intended to be, Luke
but I've seen my lady, and she's been very kind, and -- and she'll settle this business for us
She's been very kind, has she
thank her for nothing. I know the vally of her kindness. She'd be oncommon kind, I dessay, if she warn't obligated to be it
My lady has promised to settle the business for us, Luke
My lady will settle it
and she's come down here to see about it to-night
My Lady Audley come here to-night
Yes, Luke
Yes, Luke Marks
I have come to pay this man, and to send him about his business
You might have given the money to Phoebe
as well as have brought it yourself. We don't want no fine ladies up here, pryin' and pokin' their precious noses into everythink
Luke, Luke
when my lady has been so kind
Oh, damn her kindness
it ain't her kindness as we want, gal, it's her money. She won't get no snivelin' gratitood from me. Whatever she does for us she does because she is obliged; and if she wasn't obliged she wouldn't do it
Stop
I didn't come up here in the dead of night to listen to your insolence. How much is this debt
Nine pound
Let that man give me a receipt for the money
before I go
You mustn't go home alone, my lady
You'll let me go with you
Yes, yes; you shall go home with me
I think I am going to faint, Phoebe
where can I get some cold water
The pump is in the wash-house, my lady; I'll run and get you a glass of cold water
No, no, no
I'll get it myself. I must dip my head in a basin of water if I want to save myself from fainting. In which room does Mr. Audley sleep
It was number three that I got ready, my lady -- the front room -- the room next to ours
Give me a candle
I'll go into your room, and get some water for my head; stay where you are, and see that that brute of a husband of yours does not follow me
The light, my lady
you have left it up-stairs
The wind blew it out as I was leaving your room
I left it there
In my room, my lady
Yes
And it was quite out
Yes, I tell you; why do you worry me about your candle? It is past two o'clock. Come
My lady, my lady
do you see
Yes, child, I see
What's the matter
It's a fire -- a fire, my lady
Yes, I am afraid it is a fire. At Brentwood, most likely. Let me go, Phoebe; it's nothing to us
Yes, yes, my lady; it's nearer than Brentwood -- much nearer; it's at Mount Stanning
It's at Mount Stanning, my lady
It's the Castle that's on fire -- I know it is, I know it is! I thought of fire to-night, and I was fidgety and uneasy, for I knew this would happen some day. I wouldn't mind if it was only the wretched place, but there'll be life lost, there'll be life lost
There's Luke, too tipsy to help himself, unless others help him; there's Mr. Audley asleep
Oh, my God
Say it's not true, my lady, say it's not true! It's too horrible, it's too horrible, it's too horrible
What's too horrible
The thought that's in my mind; the terrible thought that's in my mind
What do you mean, girl
Oh, God forgive me if I'm wrong
and God grant I may be. Why did you go up to the Castle, my lady? Why were you so set on going against all I could say -- you who are so bitter against Mr. Audley and against Luke, and who knew they were both under that roof? Oh, tell me that I do you a cruel wrong, my lady; tell me so -- tell me! for as there is a Heaven above me I think that you went to that place to-night on purpose to set fire to it. Tell me that I'm wrong, my lady; tell me that I'm doing you a wicked wrong
I will tell you nothing, except that you are a mad woman
Get up; fool, idiot, coward! Is your husband such a precious bargain that you should be groveling there, lamenting and groaning for him? What is Robert Audley to you, that you behave like a maniac, because you think he is in danger? How do you know the fire is at Mount Stanning? You see a red patch in the sky, and you cry out directly that your own paltry hovel is in flames, as if there were no place in the world that could burn except that. The fire may be at Brentwood, or further away -- at Romford, or still further away, on the eastern side of London, perhaps. Get up, mad woman, and go back and look after your goods and chattels, and your husband and your lodger. Get up and go: I don't want you
Oh! my lady, my lady, forgive me
there's nothing you can say to me that's hard enough for having done you such a wrong, even in my thoughts. I don't mind your cruel words -- I don't mind anything if I'm wrong
Go back and see for yourself
I tell you again, I don't want you
No riding to-day
and no chance of any callers to enliven us, unless that ridiculous Bob comes crawling through the wet from Mount Stanning
Yes, he will come down here in the wet, perhaps
with his hat sleek and shining as if it had been brushed with a pat of fresh butter, and with white vapors steaming out of his clothes, and making him look like an awkward genie just let out of his bottle. He will come down here and print impressions of his muddy boots all over the carpet, and he'll sit on your Gobelin tapestry, my lady, in his wet overcoat; and he'll abuse you if you remonstrate, and will ask why people have chairs that are not to be sat upon, and why you don't live in Figtree Court, and
What do you think Major Melville told me when he called here yesterday, Alicia
I haven't the remotest idea
Perhaps he told you that we should have another war before long, by Ged, sir; or perhaps he told you that we should have a new ministry, by Ged, sir, for that those fellows are getting themselves into a mess, sir; or that those other fellows were reforming this, and cutting down that, and altering the other in the army, until, by Ged, sir, we shall have no army at all, by-and-by -- nothing but a pack of boys, sir, crammed up to the eyes with a lot of senseless schoolmasters' rubbish, and dressed in shell-jackets and calico helmets. Yes, sir, they're fighting in Oudh in calico helmets at this very day, sir
You're an impertinent minx, miss
Major Melville told me nothing of the kind; but he told me that a very devoted admirer of you, a certain Sir Harry Towers, has forsaken his place in Hertfordshire, and his hunting stable, and has gone on the continent for a twelvemonths' tour
He has gone on the continent, has he
He told me that he meant to do so -- if -- if he didn't have everything his own way. Poor fellow! he's a, dear, good-hearted, stupid creature, and twenty times better than that peripatetic, patent refrigerator, Mr. Robert Audley
I wish, Alicia, you were not so fond of ridiculing Bob
Bob is a good fellow, and I'm as fond of him as if he'd been my own son; and -- and -- I've been very uncomfortable about him lately. He has changed very much within the last few days, and he has taken all sorts of absurd ideas into his head, and my lady has alarmed me about him. She thinks
It is better not to say too much about it as yet awhile
Alicia knows what I think
Yes
my lady thinks that Bob is going mad, but I know better than that. He's not at all the sort of person to go mad. How should such a sluggish ditch-pond of an intellect as his ever work itself into a tempest? He may move about for the rest of his life, perhaps, in a tranquil state of semi-idiotcy, imperfectly comprehending who he is, and where he's going, and what he's doing -- but he'll never go mad
If the poor little girl loves me
and if she thinks that I love her, and has been led to think so by any word or act of mine, I'm in duty bound to let her think so to the end of time, and to fulfill any tacit promise which I may have unconsciously made. I thought once -- I meant once to -- to make her an offer by-and-by when this horrible mystery about George Talboys should have been cleared up and everything peacefully settled -- but now
Poor little girl
How good it is of her to love me, and how grateful ought I to be for her tenderness. How many fellows would think such a generous, loving heart the highest boon that earth could give them. There's Sir Harry Towers stricken with despair at his rejection. He would give me half his estate, all his estate, twice his estate, if he had it, to be in the shoes which I am anxious to shake off my ungrateful feet. Why don't I love her? Why is it that although I know her to be pretty, and pure, and good, and truthful, I don't love her? Her image never haunts me, except reproachfully. I never see her in my dreams. I never wake up suddenly in the dead of the night with her eyes shining upon me and her warm breath upon my cheek, or with the fingers of her soft hand clinging to mine. No, I'm not in love with her, I can't fall in love with her
opium -- poison
If I could
if I could only do it! And yet why should I _now_
How slow the time is
how slow, how slow! Shall I grow old like this, I wonder, with every minute of my life seeming like an hour
My head aches terribly, Martin
I shall go and lie down till dinner-time. You may come at five to dress me
Perhaps I shall be always dreaming these sort of dreams
until the terror of them kills me
Will you take a walk with me in the quadrangle
Yes, if you please, my lady
I have been yawning over a stupid novel all the morning, and shall be very glad of a little fresh air
What a long day it has been
nothing but drizzle and mist and wind! And now that it's too late for anybody to go out, it must needs be fine
They have been afraid to come and tell him
they have been afraid to break the news to Sir Michael. Who will come to tell it, at last, I wonder? The rector of Mount Stanning, perhaps, or the doctor; some important person at least
Perhaps Robert might care for me, if I had inflammation of the lungs
He couldn't insult me by calling me a bouncer then. Bouncers don't have inflammation of the lungs
Good gracious me
six o'clock, and I'm not dressed
I must go in, my lady
Won't you come
Presently
I'm dressed, you see
My lady
What is the matter with you
Get up, and let me take you indoors
Is there any room in which I can talk to you alone
Lady Audley
I spoke to you last-night very plainly, but you refused to listen to me. To-night I must speak to you still more plainly, and you must no longer refuse to listen to me
There was a fire last night at Mount Stanning, Lady Audley
the Castle Inn, the house in which I slept, was burned to the ground. Do you know how I escaped perishing in that destruction
No
I escaped by a most providential circumstance which seems a very simple one. I did not sleep in the room which had been prepared for me. The place seemed wretchedly damp and chilly, the chimney smoked abominably when an attempt was made at lighting a fire, and I persuaded the servant to make me up a bed on the sofa in the small ground-floor sitting-room which I had occupied during the evening
Shall I tell you by whose agency the destruction of the Castle Inn was brought about, my lady
Shall I tell you
My Lady Audley
_you_ are the incendiary. It was you whose murderous hand kindled those flames. It was you who thought by that thrice-horrible deed to rid yourself of me, your enemy and denouncer. What was it to you that other lives might be sacrificed? If by a second massacre of Saint Bartholomew you could have ridded yourself of _me_ you would have sacrificed an army of victims. The day is past for tenderness and mercy. For you I can no longer know pity or compunction. So far as by sparing your shame I can spare others who must suffer by your shame, I will be merciful, but no further. If there were any secret tribunal before which you might be made to answer for your crimes, I would have little scruple in being your accuser, but I would spare that generous and high-born gentleman upon whose noble name your infamy would be reflected
No life was lost in the fire of last night. I slept lightly, my lady, for my mind was troubled, as it has been for a long time, by the misery which I knew was lowering upon this house. It was I who discovered the breaking out of the fire in time to give the alarm and to save the servant girl and the poor drunken wretch, who was very much burnt in spite of efforts, and who now lies in a precarious state at his mother's cottage. It was from him and from his wife that I learned who had visited the Castle Inn in the dead of the night. The woman was almost distracted when she saw me, and from her I discovered the particulars of last night. Heaven knows what other secrets of yours she may hold, my lady, or how easily they might be extorted from her if I wanted her aid, which I do not. My path lies very straight before me. I have sworn to bring the murderer of George Talboys to justice, and I will keep my oath. I say that it was by your agency my friend met with his death. If I have wondered sometimes, as it was only natural I should, whether I was not the victim of some horrible hallucination, whether such an alternative was not more probable than that a young and lovely woman should be capable of so foul and treacherous a murder, all wonder is past. After last night's deed of horror, there is no crime you could commit, however vast and unnatural, which could make me wonder. Henceforth you must seem to me no longer a woman, a guilty woman with a heart which in its worst wickedness has yet some latent power to suffer and feel; I look upon you henceforth as the demoniac incarnation of some evil principle. But you shall no longer pollute this place by your presence. Unless you will confess what you are and who you are in the presence of the man you have deceived so long, and accept from him and from me such mercy as we may be inclined to extend to you, I will gather together the witnesses who shall swear to your identity, and at peril of any shame to myself and those I love, I will bring upon you the just and awful punishment of your crime
Bring Sir Michael
bring him here, and I will confess anything -- everything. What do I care? God knows I have struggled hard enough against you, and fought the battle patiently enough; but you have conquered, Mr. Robert Audley. It is a great triumph, is it not -- a wonderful victory? You have used your cool, calculating, frigid, luminous intellect to a noble purpose. You have conquered -- a MAD WOMAN
A mad woman
Yes, a mad woman. When you say that I killed George Talboys, you say the truth. When you say that I murdered him treacherously and foully, you lie. I killed him because I AM MAD! because my intellect is a little way upon the wrong side of that narrow boundary-line between sanity and insanity; because, when George Talboys goaded me, as you have goaded me, and reproached me, and threatened me, my mind, never properly balanced, utterly lost its balance, and _I was mad_! Bring Sir Michael; and bring him quickly. If he is to be told one thing let him be told everything; let him hear the secret of my life
the secret of my life
You should forgive me, for you know _why_ I have been so. You know the _secret_ of my life
Lady Audley has a confession to make to you, sir -- a confession which I know will be a most cruel surprise, a most bitter grief. But it is necessary for your present honor, and for your future peace, that you should hear it. She has deceived you, I regret to say, most basely; but it is only right that you should hear from her own lips any excuses which she may have to offer for her wickedness. May God soften this blow for you
I cannot
Lucy
Lucy, tell me that this man is a madman! tell me so, my love, or I shall kill him
He has told you the truth
and he is not mad! I have sent him for you that I may confess everything to you. I should be sorry for you if I could, for you have been very, very good to me, much better to me than I ever deserved; but I can't, I can't -- I can feel nothing but my own misery. I told you long ago that I was selfish; I am selfish still -- more selfish than ever in my misery. Happy, prosperous people may feel for others. I laugh at other people's sufferings; they seem so small compared to my own
I must tell you the story of my life, in order to tell you why I have become the miserable wretch who has no better hope than to be allowed to run away and hide in some desolate corner of the earth. I must tell you the story of my life
Perhaps it was more from being discontented with my dreary life than from any wonderful impulse of affection, that I asked very often the same question about my mother. I always received the same answer -- she was away. When I asked where, I was told that that was a secret. When I grew old enough to understand the meaning of the word death, I asked if my mother was dead, and I was told -- 'No, she was not dead; she was ill, and she was away.' I asked how long she had been ill, and I was told that she had been so some years, ever since I was a baby. "At last the secret came out. I worried my foster-mother with the old question one day when the remittances had fallen very much in arrear, and her temper had been unusually tried. She flew into a passion, and told me that my mother was a mad woman, and that she was in a madhouse forty miles away. She had scarcely said this when she repented, and told me that it was not the truth, and that I was not to believe it, or to say that she had told me such a thing. I discovered afterward that my father had made her promise most solemnly never to tell me the secret of my mother's fate. 

"I brooded horribly upon the thought of my mother's madness. It haunted me by day and night. I was always picturing to myself this mad woman pacing up and down some prison cell, in a hideous garment that bound her tortured limbs. I had exaggerated ideas of the horror of her situation. I had no knowledge of the different degrees of madness, and the image that haunted me was that of a distraught and violent creature, who would fall upon me and kill me if I came within her reach. This idea grew upon me until I used to awake in the dead of night, screaming aloud in an agony of terror, from a dream in which I had felt my mother's icy grasp upon my throat, and heard her ravings in my ear. 

"When I was ten years old my father came to pay up the arrears due to my protectress, and to take me to school. He had left me in Hampshire longer than he had intended, from his inability to pay this money; so there again I felt the bitterness of poverty, and ran the risk of growing up an ignorant creature among coarse rustic children, because my father was poor
My father came at last, and I told him what I had discovered. He was very much affected when I spoke of my mother. He was not what the world generally calls a good man, but I learned afterward that he had loved his wife very dearly, and that he would have willingly sacrificed his life to her, and constituted himself her guardian, had he not been compelled to earn the daily bread of the mad woman and her child by the exercise of his profession. So here again I beheld what a bitter thing it is to be poor. My mother, who might have been tended by a devoted husband, was given over to the care of hired nurses. "Before my father sent me to school at Torquay, he took me to see my mother. This visit served at least to dispel the idea which had so often terrified me. I saw no raving, straight-waist-coated maniac, guarded by zealous jailers, but a golden-haired, blue-eyed, girlish creature, who seemed as frivolous as a butterfly, and who skipped toward us with her yellow curls decorated with natural flowers, and saluted us with radiant smiles, and gay, ceaseless chatter. 

"But she didn't know us. She would have spoken in the same manner to any stranger who had entered the gates of the garden about her prison-house. Her madness was an hereditary disease transmitted to her from her mother, who had died mad. She, my mother, had been, or had appeared sane up to the hour of my birth, but from that hour her intellect had decayed, and she had become what I saw her. 

"I went away with the knowledge of this, and with the knowledge that the only inheritance I had to expect from my mother was -- insanity! 

"I went away with this knowledge in my mind, and with something more -- a secret to keep. I was a child of ten years only, but I felt all the weight of that burden. I was to keep the secret of my mother's madness; for it was a secret that might affect me injuriously in after-life. I was to remember this. 

"I did remember this; and it was, perhaps, this that made me selfish and heartless, for I suppose I am heartless. As I grew older I was told that I was pretty -- beautiful -- lovely -- bewitching. I heard all these things at first indifferently, but by-and-by I listened to them greedily, and began to think that in spite of the secret of my life I might be more successful in the world's great lottery than my companions. I had learnt that which in some indefinite manner or other every school-girl learns sooner or later -- I learned that my ultimate fate in life depended upon my marriage, and I concluded that if I was indeed prettier than my schoolfellows, I ought to marry better than any one of them. 

"I left school before I was seventeen years of age, with this thought in my mind, and I went to live at the other extremity of England with my father, who had retired upon his half-pay, and had established himself at Wildernsea, with the idea that the place was cheap and select. 

"The place was indeed select. I had not been there a month before I discovered that even the prettiest girl might wait a long time for a rich husband. I wish to hurry over this part of my life. I dare say I was very despicable. You and your nephew, Sir Michael, have been rich all your lives, and can very well afford to despise me; but I knew how far poverty can affect a life, and I looked forward with a sickening dread to a life so affected. At last the rich suitor, the wandering prince came
The wandering prince came
he was called George Talboys
Mr. George Talboys was a cornet in a dragoon regiment. He was the only son of a rich country gentleman. He fell in love with me, and married me three months after my seventeenth birthday. I think I loved him as much as it was in my power to love anybody; not more than I have loved you, Sir Michael -- not so much, for when you married me you elevated me to a position that he could never have given me
We were married
I looked upon this as a desertion, and I resented it bitterly -- resented it by hating the man who had left me with no protector but a weak, tipsy father, and with a child to support. I had to work hard for my living, and in every hour of labor -- and what labor is more wearisome than the dull slavery of a governess?-- I recognized a separate wrong done me by George Talboys. His father was rich, his sister was living in luxury and respectability, and I, his wife, and the mother of his son, was a slave allied to beggary and obscurity. People pitied me, and I hated them for their pity. I did not love the child, for he had been left a burden upon my hands. The hereditary taint that was in my blood had never until this time showed itself by any one sign or token; but at this time I became subject to fits of violence and despair. At this time I think my mind first lost its balance, and for the first time I crossed that invisible line which separates reason from madness. I have seen my father's eyes fixed upon me in horror and alarm. I have known him soothe me as only mad people and children are soothed, and I have chafed against his petty devices, I have resented even his indulgence. "At last these fits of desperation resolved themselves into a desperate purpose. I determined to run away from this wretched home which my slavery supported. I determined to desert this father who had more fear of me than love for me. I determined to go to London and lose myself in that great chaos of humanity. 

"I had seen an advertisement in the _Times_ while I was at Wildernsea, and I presented myself to Mrs. Vincent, the advertiser, under a feigned name. She accepted me, waiving all questions as to my antecedents. You know the rest. I came here, and you made me an offer, the acceptance of which would lift me at once into the sphere to which my ambition had pointed ever since I was a school-girl, and heard for the first time that I was pretty. 

"Three years had passed, and I had received no token of my husband's existence; for, I argued, that if he had returned to England, he would have succeeded in finding me under any name and in any place. I knew the energy of his character well enough to know this. 

"I said 'I have a right to think that he is dead, or that he wishes me to believe him dead, and his shadow shall not stand between me and prosperity.' I said this, and I became your wife, Sir Michael, with every resolution to be as good a wife as it was in my nature to be. The common temptations that assail and shipwreck some women had no terror for me. I would have been your true and pure wife to the end of time, though I had been surrounded by a legion of tempters. The mad folly that the world calls love had never had any part in my madness, and here at least extremes met, and the vice of heartlessness became the virtue of constancy. 

"I was very happy in the first triumph and grandeur of my new position, very grateful to the hand that had lifted me to it. In the sunshine of my own happiness I felt, for the first time in my life, for the miseries of others. I had been poor myself, and I was now rich, and could afford to pity and relieve the poverty of my neighbors. I took pleasure in acts of kindness and benevolence. I found out my father's address and sent him large sums of money, anonymously, for I did not wish him to discover what had become of me. I availed myself to the full of the privilege your generosity afforded me. I dispensed happiness on every side. I saw myself loved as well as admired, and I think I might have been a good woman for the rest of my life, if fate would have allowed me to be so. 

"I believe that at this time my mind regained its just balance. I had watched myself very closely since leaving Wildernsea; I had held a check upon myself. I had often wondered while sitting in the surgeon's quiet family circle whether any suspicion of that invisible, hereditary taint had ever occurred to Mr. Dawson. 

"Fate would not suffer me to be good. My destiny compelled me to be a wretch. Within a month of my marriage, I read in one of the Essex papers of the return of a certain Mr. Talboys, a fortunate gold-seeker, from Australia. The ship had sailed at the time I read the paragraph. What was to be done? 

"I said just now that I knew the energy of George's character. I knew that the man who had gone to the antipodes and won a fortune for his wife would leave no stone unturned in his efforts to find her. It was hopeless to think of hiding myself from him. 

"Unless he could be induced to believe that I was dead, he would never cease in his search for me. 

"My brain was dazed as I thought of my peril. Again the balance trembled, again the invisible boundary was passed, again I was mad. 

"I went down to Southampton and found my father, who was living there with my child. You remember how Mrs. Vincent's name was used as an excuse for this hurried journey, and how it was contrived I should go with no other escort than Phoebe Marks, whom I left at the hotel while I went to my father's house. 

"I confided to my father the whole secret of my peril. He was not very much shocked at what I had done, for poverty had perhaps blunted his sense of honor and principle. He was not very much shocked, but he was frightened, and he promised to do all in his power to assist me in my horrible emergency. 

"He had received a letter addressed to me at Wildernsea, by George, and forwarded from there to my father. This letter had been written within a few days of the sailing of the _Argus_, and it announced the probable date of the ship's arrival at Liverpool. This letter gave us, therefore, data upon which to act. 

"We decided at once upon the first step. This was that on the date of the probable arrival of the _Argus_, or a few days later, an advertisement of my death should be inserted in the _Times_. 

"But almost immediately after deciding upon this, we saw that there were fearful difficulties in the carrying out of such a simple plan. The date of the death, and the place in which I died, must be announced, as well as the death itself. George would immediately hurry to that place, however distant it might be, however comparatively inaccessible, and the shallow falsehood would be discovered. 

"I knew enough of his sanguine temperament, his courage and determination, his readiness to hope against hope, to know that unless he saw the grave in which I was buried, and the register of my death, he would never believe that I was lost to him. 

"My father was utterly dumfounded and helpless. He could only shed childish tears of despair and terror. He was of no use to me in this crisis. 

"I was hopeless of any issue out of my difficulties. I began to think that I must trust to the chapter of accidents, and hope that among other obscure corners of the earth, Audley Court might be undreamt of by my husband. 

"I sat with my father, drinking tea with him in his miserable hovel, and playing with the child, who was pleased with my dress and jewels, but quite unconscious that I was anything but a stranger to him. I had the boy in my arms, when a woman who attended him came to fetch him that she might make him more fit to be seen by the lady, as she said. 

"I was anxious to know how the boy was treated, and I detained this woman in conversation with me while my father dozed over the tea-table. 

"She was a pale-faced, sandy-haired woman of about five-and-forty and she seemed very glad to get the chance of talking to me as long as I pleased to allow her. She soon left off talking of the boy, however, to tell me of her own troubles. She was in very great trouble, she told me. Her eldest daughter had been obliged to leave her situation from ill-health; in fact, the doctor said the girl was in a decline; and it was a hard thing for a poor widow who had seen better days to have a sick daughter to support, as well as a family of young children. 

"I let the woman run on for a long time in this manner, telling me the girl's ailments, and the girl's age, and the girl's doctor's stuff, and piety, and sufferings, and a great deal more. But I neither listened to her nor heeded her. I heard her, but only in a far-away manner, as I heard the traffic in the street, or the ripple of the stream at the bottom of it. What were this woman's troubles to me? I had miseries of my own, and worse miseries than her coarse nature could ever have to endure. These sort of people always had sick husbands or sick children, and expected to be helped in their illness by the rich. It was nothing out of the common. I was thinking this, and I was just going to dismiss the woman with a sovereign for her sick daughter, when an idea flashed upon me with such painful suddenness that it sent the blood surging up to my brain, and set my heart beating, as it only beats when I am mad. 

"I asked the woman her name. She was a Mrs. Plowson, and she kept a small general shop, she said, and only ran in now and then to look after Georgey, and to see that the little maid-of-all-work took care of him. Her daughter's name was Matilda. I asked her several questions about this girl Matilda, and I ascertained that she was four-and-twenty, that she had always been consumptive, and that she was now, as the doctor said, going off in a rapid decline. He had declared that she could not last much more than a fortnight. 

"It was in three weeks that the ship that carried George Talboys was expected to anchor in the Mersey. 

"I need not dwell upon this business. I visited the sick girl. She was fair and slender. Her description, carelessly given, might tally nearly enough with my own, though she bore no shadow of resemblance to me, except in these two particulars. I was received by the girl as a rich lady who wished to do her a service. I bought the mother, who was poor and greedy, and who for a gift of money, more money than she had ever before received, consented to submit to anything I wished. Upon the second day after my introduction to this Mrs. Plowson, my father went over to Ventnor, and hired lodgings for his invalid daughter and her little boy. Early the next morning he carried over the dying girl and Georgey, who had been bribed to call her 'mamma.' She entered the house as Mrs. Talboys; she was attended by a Ventnor medical man as Mrs. Talboys; she died, and her death and burial were registered in that name. 

"The advertisement was inserted in the _Times_, and upon the second day after its insertion George Talboys visited Ventnor, and ordered the tombstone which at this hour records the death of his wife, Helen Talboys
I cannot hear any more
if there is anything more to be told I cannot hear it. Robert, it is you who have brought about this discovery, as I understand. I want to know nothing more. Will you take upon yourself the duty of providing for the safety and comfort of this lady whom I have thought my wife? I need not ask you to remember in all you do, that I have loved her very dearly and truly. I cannot say farewell to her. I will not say it until I can think of her without bitterness -- until I can pity her, as I now pray that God may pity her this night
No
I will not intrude upon the anguish of this wounded heart. There is humiliation mingled with this bitter grief. It is better he should fight the battle alone. I have done what I believe to have been my solemn duty, yet I should scarcely wonder if I had rendered myself forever hateful to him. It is better he should fight the battle alone. _I_ can do nothing to make the strife less terrible. Better that it should be fought alone
Is papa coming to dinner
I'm so hungry; and poor Tomlins has sent up three times to say the fish will be spoiled. It must be reduced to a species of isinglass soup, by this time, I should think
Oh, it's you, Mr. Robert Audley
You dine with us of course. Pray go and find papa. It must be nearly eight o'clock, and we are supposed to dine at six
Your papa has just endured a very great grief, Alicia
A grief
papa grieved! Oh! Robert, what has happened
I can tell you nothing yet, Alicia
Alicia, can I trust you
Trust me to do what
To be a comfort and a friend to your poor father under a very heavy affliction
_Yes_
How can you ask me such a question? Do you think there is anything I would not do to lighten any sorrow of my father's? Do you think there is anything I would not suffer if my suffering could lighten his
Oh, Robert! Robert! could you think so badly of me as to think I would not try to be a comfort to my father in his grief
No, no, my dear
I never doubted your affection, I only doubted your discretion. May I rely upon that
You may, Robert
Very well, then, my dear girl, I will trust you. Your father is going to leave the Court, for a time at least. The grief which he has just endured -- a sudden and unlooked-for sorrow, remember -- has no doubt made this place hateful to him. He is going away; but he must not go alone, must he, Alicia
Alone? no! no! But I suppose my lady
Lady Audley will not go with him
he is about to separate himself from her
For a time
No, forever
Separate himself from her forever
Then this grief
Is connected with Lady Audley. Lady Audley is the cause of your father's sorrow
You will offer to accompany your father wherever he may choose to go, Alicia
You are his natural comforter at such a time as this, but you will best befriend him in this hour of trial by avoiding all intrusion upon his grief. Your very ignorance of the particulars of that grief will be a security for your discretion. Say nothing to your father that you might not have said to him two years ago, before he married a second wife. Try and be to him what you were before the woman in yonder room came between you and your father's love
I will
I will
You will naturally avoid all mention of Lady Audley's name. If your father is often silent, be patient; if it sometimes seems to you that the shadow of this great sorrow will never pass away from his life, be patient still; and remember that there can be no better hope of a cure of his grief than the hope that his daughter's devotion may lead him to remember there is one woman upon this earth who will love him truly and purely until the last
Yes -- yes, Robert, dear cousin, I will remember
My dear Alicia
do this and you will make me happy. I have been in some measure the means of bringing this sorrow upon your father. Let me hope that it is not an enduring one. Try and restore my uncle to happiness, Alicia, and I will love you more dearly than brother ever loved a noble-hearted sister; and a brotherly affection may be worth having, perhaps, after all, my dear, though it is very different to poor Sir Harry's enthusiastic worship
You are a good fellow, Bob
and I've been very foolish and wicked to feel angry with you because
Because what, my dear
Because I'm silly, Cousin Robert
never mind that, Bob, I'll do all you wish, and it shall not be my fault if my dearest father doesn't forget his troubles before long. I'd go to the end of the world with him, poor darling, if I thought there was any comfort to be found for him in the journey. I'll go and get ready directly. Do you think papa will go to-night
Yes, my dear; I don't think Sir Michael will rest another night under this roof yet awhile
The mail goes at twenty minutes past nine
we must leave the house in an hour if we are to travel by it. I shall see you again before we go, Robert
Yes, dear
Have you anything more to say to me, Robert
I only came to ascertain if I could assist in any of your arrangements. You go to London by the mail
Yes
Have you any idea of where you will stay
Yes, I shall stop at the Clarendon; I am known there. Is that all you have to say
Yes; except that Alicia will accompany you
Alicia
She could not very well stay here, you know, just now. It would be best for her to leave the Court until
Yes, yes, I understand
but is there nowhere else that she could go -- must she be with me
She could go nowhere else so immediately, and she would not be happy anywhere else
Let her come, then
let her come
Very well, my dear uncle, then all is arranged; Alicia will be ready to start at nine o'clock
Very good, very good
let her come if she pleases, poor child, let her come
I shall see you again before you go, sir
I will leave you till then
Stay
have you told Alicia
I have told her nothing, except that you are about to leave the Court for some time
You are very good, my boy, you are very good
Oh, sir! how can I ever forgive myself
how can I ever cease to hate myself for having brought this grief upon you
No, no, Robert, you did right; I wish that God had been so merciful to me as to take my miserable life before this night; but you did right
Lady Audley is very ill
take her to her room and see that she does not leave it to-night. You will be good enough to remain near her, but do not either talk to her or suffer her to excite herself by talking
Take me away
and let me sleep! Let me sleep, for my brain is on fire
Is Sir Michael gone
He will leave in half an hour
There were no lives lost in the fire at Mount Stanning
None
I am glad of that
The landlord of the house, Marks, was very terribly burned, and lies in a precarious state at his mother's cottage; but he may recover
I am glad of that -- I am glad no life was lost. Good-night, Mr. Audley
I shall ask to see you for half an hour's conversation in the course of to-morrow, my lady
Whenever you please. Good night
Good night
Good-by, Robert
good-by, and God bless you! You may trust me to take care of papa
I am sure I may. God bless you, my dear
I leave all in your hands, Robert
I may not have heard the end, but I have heard enough. Heaven knows I have no need to hear more. I leave all to you, but you will not be cruel -- you will remember how much I loved
I will remember you in everything, sir
I will do everything for the best
Good Heaven
surely this must be God's judgment upon the purposeless, vacillating life I led up to the seventh day of last September. Surely this awful responsibility has been forced upon me in order that I may humble myself to an offended Providence, and confess that a man cannot choose his own life. He cannot say, 'I will take existence lightly, and keep out of the way of the wretched, mistaken, energetic creatures, who fight so heartily in the great battle.' He cannot say, 'I will stop in the tents while the strife is fought, and laugh at the fools who are trampled down in the useless struggle.' He cannot do this. He can only do, humbly and fearfully, that which the Maker who created him has appointed for him to do. If he has a battle to fight, let him fight it faithfully; but woe betide him if he skulks when his name is called in the mighty muster-roll, woe betide him if he hides in the tents when the tocsin summons him to the scene of war
Can I send a message from here to London
It can be sent from Brentwood, sir -- not from here
One of the men can ride over to Brentwood, sir, if you wish any message to be sent
I do wish to send a message; will you manage it for me, Richards
Certainly, sir
You can wait, then, while I write the message
Yes, sir
From Robert Audley, of Audley Court, Essex, to Francis Wilmington, of Paper-buildings, Temple. "DEAR WILMINGTON -- If you know any physician experienced in cases of mania, and to be trusted with a secret, be so good as to send me his address by telegraph
You will see that this is given to a trustworthy person, Richards
and let the man wait at the station for the return message. He ought to get it in an hour and a half
DEAR AUDLEY -- Always glad to oblige. Alwyn Mosgrave, M.D., 12 Saville Row. Safe
I shall want another message taken to Brentwood to-morrow morning, Richards
I should be glad if the man would ride over with it before breakfast. He shall have half a sovereign for his trouble
Thank you, sir -- not necessary, sir; but as you please, of course, sir
At what hour might you wish the man to go
My room is ready, I suppose, Richards
Yes, sir -- your old room
Very good. I shall go to bed at once. Bring me a glass of brandy and water as hot as you can make it, and wait for the telegram
I will appeal to the experience of this Dr. Mosgrave
physicians and lawyers are the confessors of this prosaic nineteenth century. Surely, he will be able to help me
He is wondering whether I am the patient
and is looking for the diagnoses of madness in my face
Is it not about your own -- health -- that you wish to consult me
Oh, no
I need not remind you that my time is precious
your telegram informed me that my services were required in a case of -- danger -- as I apprehend, or I should not be here this morning
You are very good, Dr. Mosgrave
and I thank you very much for having responded to my summons. I am about to appeal to you upon a subject which is more painful to me than words can describe. I am about to implore your advice in a most difficult case, and I trust almost blindly to your experience to rescue me, and others who are very dear to me, from a cruel and complicated position
The revelation made by the patient to the physician is, I believe, as sacred as the confession of a penitent to his priest
Quite as sacred
A solemn confidence, to be violated under no circumstances
Most certainly
I have been given to understand, Dr. Mosgrave, that you have devoted much of your attention to the treatment of insanity
Yes, my practice is almost confined to the treatment of mental diseases
Such being the case, I think I may venture to conclude that you sometimes receive strange, and even terrible, revelations
The story which I am about to tell you is not my own story
you will forgive me, therefore, if I once more remind you that I can only reveal it upon the understanding that under no circumstances, or upon no apparent justification, is that confidence to be betrayed
I am all attention, Mr. Audley
You have nothing further to tell me
No. I do not think there is anything more that need be told
You would wish to prove that this lady is mad, and therefore irresponsible for her actions, Mr. Audley
Yes, I would rather, if possible, think her mad; I should be glad to find that excuse for her
And to save the _esclandre_ of a Chancery suit, I suppose, Mr, Audley
I fear that I shall not be of any use to you
I will see the lady, if you please, but I do not believe that she is mad
Why not
Because there is no evidence of madness in anything she has done. She ran away from her home, because her home was not a pleasant one, and she left in the hope of finding a better. There is no madness in that. She committed the crime of bigamy, because by that crime she obtained fortune and position. There is no madness there. When she found herself in a desperate position, she did not grow desperate. She employed intelligent means, and she carried out a conspiracy which required coolness and deliberation in its execution. There is no madness in that
But the traits of hereditary insanity
May descend to the third generation, and appear in the lady's children, if she have any. Madness is not necessarily transmitted from mother to daughter. I should be glad to help you, if I could, Mr. Audley, but I do not think there is any proof of insanity in the story you have told me. I do not think any jury in England would accept the plea of insanity in such a case as this. The best thing you can do with this lady is to send her back to her first husband; if he will have her
Her first husband is dead
at least, he has been missing for some time -- and I have reason to believe that he is dead
The lady's first husband is missing
you think that he is dead
Mr. Audley
there must be no half-confidences between us. You have not told me all
I should be very poorly able to meet the contingencies of my professional experience
if I could not perceive where confidence ends and reservation begins. You have only told me half this lady's story, Mr. Audley. You must tell me more before I can offer you any advice. What has become of the first husband
I have already told you, Dr. Mosgrave, that I do not know
Yes
but your face has told me what you have withheld from me; it has told me that you _suspect_
If I am to be of use to you, you must trust me, Mr. Audley
The first husband disappeared -- how and when? I want to know the history of his disappearance
I will trust you, Dr. Mosgrave
I will confide entirely in your honor and goodness. I do not ask you to do any wrong to society; but I ask you to save our stainless name from degradation and shame, if you can do so conscientiously
I can only spare you twenty minutes
I will see the lady, if you please. You say her mother died in a madhouse
She did. Will you see Lady Audley alone
Yes, alone, if you please
I have talked to the lady
and we understand each other very well. There is latent insanity! Insanity which might never appear; or which might appear only once or twice in a lifetime. It would be a _dementia_ in its worst phase, perhaps; acute mania; but its duration would be very brief, and it would only arise under extreme mental pressure. The lady is not mad; but she has the hereditary taint in her blood. She has the cunning of madness, with the prudence of intelligence. I will tell you what she is, Mr. Audley. She is dangerous
I will not discuss the probabilities of the suspicion which distresses you, Mr. Audley
but I will tell you this much, I do not advise any _esclandre_. This Mr. George Talboys has disappeared, but you have no evidence of his death. If you could produce evidence of his death, you could produce no evidence against this lady, beyond the one fact that she had a powerful motive for getting rid of him. No jury in the United Kingdom would condemn her upon such evidence as that
I assure you, my dear sir
that my greatest fear is the necessity of any exposure -- any disgrace
Certainly, Mr. Audley
but you cannot expect me to assist you to condone one of the worst offenses against society. If I saw adequate reason for believing that a murder had been committed by this woman, I should refuse to assist you in smuggling her away out of the reach of justice, although the honor of a hundred noble families might be saved by my doing so. But I do not see adequate reason for your suspicions; and I will do my best to help you
I will thank you when I am better able to do so
I will thank you in my uncle's name as well as in my own
I have only five minutes more, and I have a letter to write
Monsieur Val, "Villebrumeuse, 

"Belgium
That letter
is written to my friend Monsieur Val, the proprietor and medical superintendent of a very excellent _maison de sante_ in the town of Villebrumeuse. We have known each other for many years, and he will no doubt willingly receive Lady Audley into his establishment, and charge himself with the full responsibility of her future life; it will not be a very eventful one
From the moment in which Lady Audley enters that house
her life, so far as life is made up of action and variety, will be finished. Whatever secrets she may have will be secrets forever! Whatever crimes she may have committed she will be able to commit no more. If you were to dig a grave for her in the nearest churchyard and bury her alive in it, you could not more safely shut her from the world and all worldly associations. But as a physiologist and as an honest man, I believe you could do no better service to society than by doing this; for physiology is a lie if the woman I saw ten minutes ago is a woman to be trusted at large. If she could have sprung at my throat and strangled me with her little hands, as I sat talking to her just now, she would have done it
She suspected your purpose, then
She knew it. 'You think I am mad like my mother, and you have come to question me,' she said. 'You are watching for some sign of the dreadful taint in my blood.' Good-day to you, Mr. Audley
my time was up ten minutes ago; it is as much as I shall do to catch the train
baggages
Where are you going to take me
I am tired of being treated like some naughty child, who is put into a dark cellar as a punishment for its offenses. Where are you taking me
To a place in which you will have ample leisure to repent the past, Mrs. Talboys
I know where you have brought me
This is a MAD-HOUSE
Madam finds herself very much fatigued
WHAT is this place, Robert Audley
Do you think I am a baby, that you may juggle with and deceive me -- what is it? It is what I said just now, is it not
It is a _maison de sante_, my lady
I have no wish to juggle with or to deceive you
A _maison de sante_
Yes, they manage these things better in France. In England we should call it a madhouse. This a house for mad people, this, is it not, madam
Ah, but no, madam
It is an establishment of the most agreeable, where one amuses one's self
Madam -- Madam
mad
Your name is Madam Taylor here
I do not think you would wish to be known by your real name
Madam will have an attendant entirely devoted to her service
Madam will have all her wishes obeyed; her _reasonable_ wishes, but that goes without saying
Every effort will be made to render madam's sojourn at Villebrumeuse agreeable. The inmates dine together when it is wished. I dine with the inmates sometimes; my subordinate, a clever and a worthy man always. I reside with my wife and children in a little pavilion in the grounds; my subordinate resides in the establishment. Madam may rely upon our utmost efforts being exerted to insure her comfort
Leave me alone with the man who has brought me here
Leave me
beautiful devil
the Mars
You have brought me to my grave, Mr. Audley
you have used your power basely and cruelly, and have brought me to a living grave
I have done that which I thought just to others and merciful to you
I should have been a traitor to society had I suffered you to remain at liberty after -- the disappearance of George Talboys and the fire at Castle Inn. I have brought you to a place in which you will be kindly treated by people who have no knowledge of your story -- no power to taunt or to reproach you. You will lead a quiet and peaceful life, my lady; such a life as many a good and holy woman in this Catholic country freely takes upon herself, and happily endures until the end. The solitude of your existence in this place will be no greater than that of a king's daughter, who, flying from the evil of the time, was glad to take shelter in a house as tranquil as this. Surely, it is a small atonement which I ask you to render for your sins, a light penance which I call upon you to perform. Live here and repent; nobody will assail you, nobody will torment you. I only say to you, repent
I _cannot
I _cannot!_ Has my beauty brought me to _this_? Have I plotted and schemed to shield myself and laid awake in the long deadly nights, trembling to think of my dangers, for _this_? I had better have given up at once, since _this_ was to be the end. I had better have yielded to the curse that was upon me, and given up when George Talboys first came back to England
I would laugh at you and defy you, if I dared
I would kill myself and defy you, if I dared. But I am a poor, pitiful coward, and have been so from the first. Afraid of my mother's horrible inheritance; afraid of poverty; afraid of George Talboys; afraid of _you_
Do you know what I am thinking of
Do you know what I am thinking of, as I look at you in the dim light of this room? I am thinking of the day upon which George Talboys disappeared
He was standing opposite me, as you are standing now
You said that you would raze the old house to the ground; that you would root up every tree in the gardens to find your dead friend. You would have had no need to do so much: the body of George Talboys lies at the bottom of the old well, in the shrubbery beyond the lime-walk
Oh, my God
have all the ghastly things that I have thought prepared me so little for the ghastly truth, that it should come upon me like this at last
He came to me in the lime-walk
I knew that he would come, and I had prepared myself, as well as I could, to meet him. I was determined to bribe him, to cajole him, to defy him; to do anything sooner than abandon the wealth and the position I had won, and go back to my old life. He came, and he reproached me for the conspiracy at Ventnor. He declared that so long as he lived he would never forgive me for the lie that had broken his heart. He told me that I had plucked his heart out of his breast and trampled upon it; and that he had now no heart in which to feel one sentiment of mercy for me. That he would have forgiven me any wrong upon earth, but that one deliberate and passionless wrong that I had done him. He said this and a great deal more, and he told me that no power on earth should turn him from his purpose, which was to take me to the man I had deceived, and make me tell my wicked story. He did not know the hidden taint that I had sucked in with my mother's milk. He did not know that it was possible to drive me mad. He goaded me as you have goaded me; he was as merciless as you have been merciless. We were in the shrubbery at the end of the lime-walk. I was seated upon the broken masonry at the mouth of the well. George Talboys was leaning upon the disused windlass, in which the rusty iron spindle rattled loosely whenever he shifted his position. I rose at last, and turned upon him to defy him, as I had determined to defy him at the worst. I told him that if he denounced me to Sir Michael, I would declare him to be a madman or a liar, and I defied him to convince the man who loved me -- blindly, as I told him -- that he had any claim to me. I was going to leave him after having told him this, when he caught me by the wrist and detained me by force. You saw the bruises that his fingers made upon my wrist, and noticed them, and did not believe the account I gave of them. I could see that, Mr. Robert Audley, and I saw that you were a person I should have to fear
George Talboys treated me as you treated me
He swore that if there was but one witness of my identity, and that witness was removed from Audley Court by the width of the whole earth, he would bring him there to swear to my identity, and to denounce me. It was then that I was mad, it was then that I drew the loose iron spindle from the shrunken wood, and saw my first husband sink with one horrible cry into the black mouth of the well. There is a legend of its enormous depth. I do not know how deep it is. It is dry, I suppose, for I heard no splash, only a dull thud. I looked down and I saw nothing but black emptiness. I knelt down and listened, but the cry was not repeated, though I waited for nearly a quarter of an hour -- God knows how long it seemed to me!-- by the mouth of the well
Let me pass you, if you please
You see I do not fear to make my confession to you
for two reasons. The first is, that you dare not use it against me, because you know it would kill your uncle to see me in a criminal dock; the second is, that the law could pronounce no worse sentence than this -- a life-long imprisonment in a mad-house. You see I do not thank you for your mercy, Mr. Robert Audley, for I know exactly what it is worth
What shall I tell him
Shall I tell the truth -- the horrible, ghastly truth? No; that would be too cruel. His generous spirit would sink under the hideous revelation. Yet, in his ignorance of the extent of this wretched woman's wickedness, he may think, perhaps, that I have been hard with her
My God
is my friend to rest in this unhallowed burial-place because I have condoned the offenses of the woman who murdered him
I will see Alicia
she will tell me all about her father. It is only two days since he left Audley. I can scarcely expect to hear of any favorable change
What a wretched and unconscionable fool I am
Have I laughed at the follies of weak men all my life, and am I to be more foolish than the weakest of them at last? The beautiful brown-eyed creature! Why did I ever see her? Why did my relentless Nemesis ever point the way to that dreary house in Dorsetshire
You will require money, my dear Robert
for such arrangements as you may think fit to make for the future comfort of the person I committed to your care. I need scarcely tell you that those arrangements cannot be too liberal. But perhaps it is as well that I should tell you now, for the first and only time, that it is my earnest wish never again to hear that person's name. I have no wish to be told the nature of the arrangements you may make for her. I am sure that you will act conscientiously and mercifully. I seek to know no more. Whenever you want money, you will draw upon me for any sums that you may require; but you will have no occasion to tell me for whose use you want that money
DEAR MR. AUDLEY -- The rector of this place has been twice to see Marks, the man you saved in the fire at the Castle Inn. He lies in a very precarious state at his mother's cottage, near Audley Court, and is not expected to live many days. His wife is attending him, and both he and she have expressed a most earnest desire that you should see him before he dies. Pray come without delay. "Yours very sincerely, 

"CLARA TALBOYS. 

"Mount Stanning Rectory, March 6
What can that man Marks want with me
He is afraid to die until he has made confession, perhaps. He wishes to tell me that which I know already -- the story of my lady's crime. I knew that he was in the secret. I was sure of it even upon the night on which I first saw him. He knew the secret, and he traded on it
Better that she should hope vainly to the last
better that she should go through life seeking the clew to her lost brother's fate, than that I should give that clew into her hands, and say, 'Our worst fears are realized. The brother you loved has been foully murdered in the early promise of his youth
Good Heaven
how can I believe that it was I who used to lounge all day in this easy-chair reading Paul de Kock, and smoking mild Turkish; who used to drop in at half price to stand among the pressmen at the back of the boxes and see a new burlesque and finish the evening with the 'Chough and Crow,' and chops and pale ale at 'Evans'. Was it I to whom life was such an easy merry-go-round? Was it I who was one of the boys who sit at ease upon the wooden horses, while other boys run barefoot in the mud and work their hardest in the hope of a ride when their work is done? Heaven knows I have learned the business of life since then: and now I must needs fall in love and swell the tragic chorus which is always being sung by the poor addition of my pitiful sighs and, groans. Clara Talboys! Clara Talboys! Is there any merciful smile latent beneath the earnest light of your brown eyes? What would you say to me if I told you that I love you as earnestly and truly as I have mourned for your brother's fate -- that the new strength and purpose of my life, which has grown out of my friendship for the murdered man, grows even stronger as it turns to you, and changes me until I wonder at myself? What would she say to me? Ah! Heaven knows. If she happened to like the color of my hair or the tone of my voice, she might listen to me, perhaps. But would she hear me any more because I love her truly, and purely; because I would be constant and honest and faithful to her? Not she! These things might move her, perhaps to be a little pitiful to me; but they would move her no more! If a girl with freckles and white eylashes adored me, I should only think her a nuisance; but if Clara Talboys had a fancy to trample upon my uncouth person, I should think she did me a favor. I hope poor little Alicia may pick up with some fair-haired Saxon in the course of her travels. I hope
I haven't read Alexander Dumas and Wilkie Collins for nothing
I'm up to their tricks, sneaking in at doors behind a fellow's back, and flattening their white faces against window panes, and making themselves all eyes in the twilight. It's a strange thing that your generous hearted fellow, who never did a shabby thing in his life, is capable of any meanness the moment he becomes a ghost. I'll have the gas laid on to-morrow and I'll engage Mrs. Maloney's eldest son to sleep under the letter-box in the lobby. The youth plays popular melodies upon a piece of tissue paper and a small-tooth comb, and it will be quite pleasant company
Parthrick
Mad to-day and sane to-morrow
I must give my lost friend decent burial
I must do it; or I shall die of some panic like this which has seized upon me to-night. I must do it; at any peril; at any cost. Even at the price of that revelation which will bring the mad woman back from her safe hiding-place, and place her in a criminal dock
It was Dawson who recommended that the poor creature should be taken to his mother's cottage
and, I dare say. Dawson has attended him ever since the fire. He'll be able to tell me the way to the cottage
I am sorry to disturb you, Mr. Dawson
but I have come down to see Marks, who, I hear, is in a very bad way, and I want you to tell me the way to his mother's cottage
I'll show you the way, Mr. Audley
I am going there this minute
The man is very bad, then
So bad that he can be no worse. The change that can happen is that change which will take him beyond the reach of any earthly suffering
Strange
He did not appear to be much burned
He was not much burnt. Had he been, I should never have recommended his being removed from Mount Stanning. It is the shock that has done the business. He has been in a raging fever for the last two days; but to-night he is much calmer, and I'm afraid, before to-morrow night, we shall have seen the last of him
He has asked to see me, I am told
Yes
A sick man's fancy, no doubt. You dragged him out of the house, and did your best to save his life. I dare say, rough and boorish as the poor fellow is, he thinks a good deal of that
Shall I tell him you are here
Yes, yes, if you please. But be cautious how you tell him, if you think the news likely to agitate him. I am in no hurry. I can wait. You can call me when you think I can safely come up-stairs
Let me speak to you for a moment, sir, before you talk to Luke
Pray let me speak to you first
What's the gal a-sayin', there
What's she up to there
I won't have no plottin' and no hatchin' agen me. I want to speak to Mr. Audley my own self; and whatever I done I'm goin' to answer for. If I done any mischief, I'm a-goin' to try and undo it. What's she a-sayin
She ain't a-sayin' nothin', lovey
She's only a-tellin' the gentleman how bad you've been, my pretty
What I'm a-goin' to tell I'm only a-goin' to tell to him, remember
and ketch me a-tellin' of it to him if it warn't for what he done for me the other night
To be sure not, lovey
Oh, sir, I wanted to speak to you so badly
you know what I told you when I found you safe and well upon the night of the fire
Yes, yes
I told you what I suspected; what I think still
Yes, I remember
But I never breathed a word of it to anybody but you, sir, and I think that Luke has forgotten all about that night; I think that what went before the fire has gone clean out of his head altogether. He was tipsy, you know, when my la -- when she came to the Castle; and I think he was so dazed and scared like by the fire that it all went out of his memory. He doesn't suspect what I suspect, at any rate, or he'd have spoken of it to anybody or everybody; but he's dreadful spiteful against my lady, for he says if she'd have let him have a place at Brentwood or Chelmsford, this wouldn't have happened. So what I wanted to beg of you, sir, is not to let a word drop before Luke
Yes, yes, I understand; I will be careful
My lady has left the Court, I hear, sir
Yes
Never to come back, sir
Never to come back
But she has not gone where she'll be cruelly treated; where she'll be ill-used
No: she will be very kindly treated
I'm glad of that, sir; I beg your pardon for troubling you with the question, sir, but my lady was a kind mistress to me
that gal would have done jawing
I don't want _you_
I don't want _you_; you've no call to hear what I've got to say -- I only want Mr. Audley, and I wants to speak to him all alone, with none o' your sneakin' listenin' at doors, d'ye hear? so you may go down-stairs and keep there till you're wanted; and you may take mother -- no, mother may stay, I shall want her presently
I've no wish to hear anything, Luke
but I hope you won't say anything against those that have been good and generous to you
I shall say what I like
and I'm not a-goin' to be ordered by you. You ain't the parson, as I've ever heerd of; nor the lawyer neither
You made game of me in a general way, Mr. Audley
and you've drawed me out, and you've tumbled and tossed me about like in a gentlemanly way, till I was nothink or anythink in your hands; and you've looked me through and through, and turned me inside out till you thought you knowed as much as I knowed. I'd no particular call to be grateful to you, not before the fire at the Castle t'other night. But I am grateful to you for that. I'm not grateful to folks in a general way, p'r'aps, because the things as gentlefolks have give have a'most allus been the very things I didn't want. They've give me soup, and tracks, and flannel, and coals; but, Lord, they've made such a precious noise about it that I'd have been to send 'em all back to 'em. But when a gentleman goes and puts his own life in danger to save a drunken brute like me, the drunkenest brute as ever was feels grateful like to that gentleman, and wishes to say before he dies -- which he sees in the doctor's face as he ain't got long to live --' Thank ye, sir, I'm obliged to you
I need no thanks, Luke Marks
I was very glad to be of service to you
You was oncommon fond of that gent as disappeared at the Court, warn't you, sir
You was oncommon fond of that Mr. Talboys, I've heard say, sir
Yes, yes
he was my very dear friend
I've heard the servants at the Court say how you took on when you couldn't find him. I've heered the landlord of the Sun Inn say how cut up you was when you first missed him. 'If the two gents had been brothers,' the landlord said, 'our gent,' meanin' you, sir, 'couldn't have been more cut up when he missed the other
Yes, yes, I know, I know
pray do not speak any more of this subject. I cannot tell you now much it distresses me
Listen to me, Marks
believe me that I appreciate your grateful words, and that I am very glad to have been of service to you. But before you say anything more, let me make one most solemn request. If you have sent for me that you may tell me anything of the fate of my lost friend, I entreat you to spare yourself and to spare me that horrible story. You can tell me nothing which I do not already know. The worst you can tell me of the woman who was once in your power, has already been revealed to me by her own lips. Pray, then, be silent upon this subject; I say again, you can tell me nothing which I do not know
I can't tell you nothin' you don't know
Nothing
Then it ain't no good for me to try
Did _she_ tell you
I must beg, Marks, that you will drop the subject
I have already told you that I do not wish to hear it spoken of. Whatever discoveries you made, you made your market out of them. Whatever guilty secrets you got possession of, you were paid for keeping silence. You had better keep silence to the end
Had I
Had I really now better hold my tongue to the last
I think so, most decidedly. You traded on your secret, and you were paid to keep it. It would be more honest to hold to your bargain, and keep it still
But, suppose I want to tell something
suppose I feel I can't die with a secret on my mind, and have asked to see you on purpose that I might tell you; suppose that, and you'll suppose nothing but the truth. I'd have been burnt alive before I'd have told _her_
I'd have been burnt alive first. I made her pay for her pretty insolent ways; I made her pay for her airs and graces; I'd never have told her -- never, never! I had my power over her, and I kept it; I had my secret and was paid for it; and there wasn't a petty slight as she ever put upon me or mine that I didn't pay her out for twenty times over
What are you talking of? What is it that you could have told
I'm a-goin to tell you
Give us a drink, mother
Stop where you are
I'll ask you another question, mother
and I think it'll be strange if you can't answer it. Do you remember when I was at work upon Atkinson's farm; before I was married you know, and when I was livin' down here along of you
Yes, yes
I remember that, my dear. It were last fall, just about as the apples was bein' gathered in the orchard across our lane, and about the time as you had your new sprigged wesket. I remember, Luke, I remember
If you remember that much, maybe you'll remember more, mother
Can you call to mind my bringing some one home here one night, while Atkinsons was stackin' the last o' their corn
I rek'lect your bringing home Phoebe
I rek'lect your bringin' Phoebe home to take a cup o' tea, or a little snack o' supper, a mort o' times
Bother Phoebe
who's a talkin' of Phoebe? What's Phoebe, that anybody should go to put theirselves out about her? Do you remember my bringin' home a gentleman after ten o'clock, one September night; a gentleman as was wet through to the skin, and was covered with mud and slush, and green slime and black muck, from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, and had his arm broke, and his shoulder swelled up awful; and was such a objeck that nobody would ha' knowed him; a gentleman as had to have his clothes cut off him in some places, and as sat by the kitchen fire, starin' at the coals as if he had gone mad or stupid-like, and didn't know where he was, or who he was; and as had to be cared for like a baby, and dressed, and dried, and washed, and fed with spoonfuls of brandy, that had to be forced between his locked teeth, before any life could be got into him? Do you remember that, mother
My God
I think Thee for Thy wondrous mercies. George Talboys is alive
Wait a bit
don't you be too fast. Mother, give us down that tin box on the shelf over against the chest of drawers, will you
There ain't no money in it, more's the pity
or if there had been it wouldn't have been let stop very long. But there's summat in it that perhaps you'll think quite as valliable as money, and that's what I'm goin' to give you as a proof that a drunken brute can feel thankful to them as is kind to him
I don't know this writing
What has this to do with my friend? Why do you show me these
Suppose you read 'em first
and ask me questions about them afterwards
MY DEAR FRIEND -- I write to you in such utter confusion of mind as perhaps no man ever before suffered. I cannot tell you what has happened to me, I can only tell you that something has happened which will drive me from England a broken-hearted man, to seek some corner of the earth in which I may live and die unknown and forgotten. I can only ask you to forget me. If your friendship could have done me any good, I would have appealed to it. If your counsel could have been any help to me, I would have confided in you. But neither friendship nor counsel can help me; and all I can say to you is this, God bless you for the past, and teach you to forget me in the future. G.T
HELEN -- May God pity and forgive you for that which you have done to-day, as truly as I do. Rest in peace. You shall never hear of me again; to you and to the world I shall henceforth be that which you wished me to be to-day. You need fear no molestation from me. I leave England never to return. "G.T
This was not written by George Talboys
It was
it was written by Mr. Talboys, every line of it. He wrote it with his own hand; but it was his left hand, for he couldn't use his right because of his broken arm
I understand
I understand. Tell me all; tell me how it was that my poor friend was saved
I was at work up at Atkinson's farm, last September
I don't know what Phoebe was a-doin' upon the evenin' of the seventh o' September -- I rek'lect the date because Farmer Atkinson paid me my wages all of a lump on that day, and I'd had to sign a bit of a receipt for the money he give me -- I don't know what she was a-doin', but she warn't at the gate agen the lime-walk, so I went round to the other side o' the gardens and jumped across the dry ditch, for I wanted partic'ler to see her that night, as I was goin' away to work upon a farm beyond Chelmsford the next day. Audley church clock struck nine as I was crossin' the meadows between Atkinson's and the Court, and it must have been about a quarter past nine when I got into the kitchen garden. "I crossed the garden, and went into the lime-walk; the nighest way to the servants' hall took me through the shrubbery and past the dry well. It was a dark night, but I knew my way well enough about the old place, and the light in the window of the servants' hall looked red and comfortable through the darkness. I was close against the mouth of the dry well when I heard a sound that made my blood creep. It was a groan -- a groan of a man in pain, as was lyin' somewhere hid among the bushes. I warn't afraid of ghosts and I warn't afraid of anythink in a general way, but there was somethin in hearin' this groan as chilled me to the very heart, and for a minute I was struck all of a heap, and didn't know what to do. But I heard the groan again, and then I began to search among the bushes. I found a man lyin' hidden under a lot o' laurels, and I thought at first he was up to no good, and I was a-goin' to collar him to take him to the house, when he caught me by the wrist without gettin' up from the ground, but lookin' at me very earnest, as I could see by the way his face was turned toward me in the darkness, and asked me who I was, and what I was, and what I had to do with the folks at the Court. 

"There was somethin' in the way he spoke that told me he was a gentleman, though I didn't know him from Adam, and couldn't see his face; and I answered his questions civil. 

"'I want to get away from this place,' he said, 'without bein' seen by any livin' creetur, remember that. I've been lyin' here ever since four o'clock to-day, and I'm half dead, but I want to get away without bein' seen, mind that.' 

"I told him that was easy enough, but I began to think my first thoughts of him might have been right enough, after all, and that he couldn't have been up to no good to want to sneak away so precious quiet. 

"'Can you take me to any place where I can get a change of dry clothes,' he says, 'without half a dozen people knowin' it?' 

"He'd got up into a sittin' attitude by this time, and I could see that his right arm hung close by his side, and that he was in pain. 

"I pointed to his arm, and asked him what was the matter with it; but he only answered, very quiet like: 'Broken, my lad, broken. Not that that's much,' he says in another tone, speaking to himself like, more than to me. 'There's broken hearts as well as broken limbs, and they're not so easy mended.' 

"I told him I could take him to mother's cottage, and that he could dry his clothes there and welcome. 

"'Can your mother keep a secret?' he asked. 

"'Well, she could keep one well enough if she could remember it,' I told him; 'but you might tell her all the secrets of the Freemasons, and Foresters, and Buffalers and Oddfellers as ever was, to-night: and she'd have forgotten all about 'em to-morrow mornin'.' 

"He seemed satisfied with this, and he got himself up by holdin' on to me, for it seemed as if his limbs was cramped, the use of 'em was almost gone. I felt as he came agen me, that his clothes was wet and mucky. 

"'You haven't been and fell into the fish-pond, have you, sir?' I asked. 

"He made no answer to my question; he didn't seem even to have heard it. I could see now he was standin' upon his feet that he was a tall, fine-made man, a head and shoulders higher than me. 

"'Take me to your mother's cottage, ' he said, 'and get me some dry clothes if you can; I'll pay you well for your trouble.' 

"I knew that the key was mostly left in the wooden gate in the garden wall, so I led him that way. He could scarcely walk at first, and it was only by leanin' heavily upon my shoulder that he managed to get along. I got him through the gate, leavin' it unlocked behind me, and trustin' to the chance of that not bein' noticed by the under-gardener, who had the care of the key, and was a careless chap enough. I took him across the meadows, and brought him up here, still keepin' away from the village, and in the fields, where there wasn't a creature to see us at that time o' night; and so I got him into the room down-stairs, where mother was a-sittin' over the fire gettin' my bit o' supper ready for me. 

"I put the strange chap in a chair agen the fire, and then for the first time I had a good look at him. I never see anybody in such a state before. He was all over green damp and muck, and his hands was scratched and cut to pieces. I got his clothes off him how I could, for he was like a child in my hands, and sat starin' at the fire as helpless as any baby; only givin' a long heavy sigh now and then, as if his heart was a-goin' to bust. At last he dropped into a kind of a doze, a stupid sort of sleep, and began to nod over the fire, so I ran and got a blanket and wrapped him in it, and got him to lie down on the press bedstead in the room under this. I sent mother to bed, and I sat by the fire and watched him, and kep' the fire up till it was just upon daybreak, when he 'woke up all of a sudden with a start, and said he must go, directly this minute. 

"I begged him not to think of such a thing and told him he warn't fit to move for ever so long; but he said he must go, and he got up, and though he staggered like, and at first could hardly stand steady two minutes together, he wouldn't be beat, and he got me to dress him in his clothes as I'd dried and cleaned as well as I could while he laid asleep. I did manage it at last, but the clothes was awful spoiled, and he looked a dreadful objeck, with his pale face and a great cut on his forehead that I'd washed and tied up with a handkercher. He could only get his coat on by buttoning it on round his neck, for he couldn't put a sleeve upon his broken arm. But he held out agen everything, though he groaned every now and then; and what with the scratches and bruises on his hands, and the cut upon his forehead, and his stiff limbs and broken arm, he'd plenty of call to groan; and by the time it was broad daylight he was dressed and ready to go. 

"'What's the nearest town to this upon the London road?' he asked me. 

"I told him as the nighest town was Brentwood. 

"'Very well, then,' he says, 'if you'll go with me to Brentwood, and take me to some surgeon as'll set my arm, I'll give you a five pound note for that and all your other trouble.' 

"I told him that I was ready and willin' to do anything as he wanted done; and asked him if I shouldn't go and see if I could borrow a cart from some of the neighbors to drive him over in, for I told him it was a good six miles' walk. 

"He shook his head. No, no, no, he said, he didn't want anybody to know anything about him; he'd rather walk it. 

"He did walk it; and he walked like a good 'un, too; though I know as every step he took o' them six miles he took in pain; but he held out as he'd held out before; I never see such a chap to hold out in all my blessed life. He had to stop sometimes and lean agen a gateway to get his breath; but he held out still, till at last we got into Brentwood, and then he says, 'Take me to the nighest surgeon's,' and I waited while he had his arm set in splints, which took a precious long time. The surgeon wanted him to stay in Brentwood till he was better, but he said it warn't to be heard on, he must get up to London without a minute's loss of time; so the surgeon made him as comfortable as he could, considering and tied up his arm in a sling
When his arm was dressed
So I went to the station with him. We was in time to catch the train as stops at Brentwood at half after eight, and we had five minutes to spare. So he takes me into a corner of the platform, and he says, 'I wants you to deliver these here letters for me,' which I told him I was willin'. 'Very well, then,' he says; 'look here; you know Audley Court?' 'Yes,' I says, 'I ought to, for my sweetheart lives lady's maid there.' 'Whose lady's maid?' he says. So I tells him, 'My lady's, the new lady what was governess at Mr. Dawson's.' 'Very well, then,' he says; 'this here letter with the cross upon the envelope is for Lady Audley, but you're to be sure to give it into her own hands; and remember to take care as nobody sees you give it.' I promises to do this, and he hands me the first letter. And then he says, 'Do you know Mr. Audley, as is nevy to Sir Michael?' and I said, 'Yes, I've heerd tell on him, and I've heerd as he was a reg'lar swell, but affable and free-spoken' (for I heerd 'em tell on you, you know
Now look here,' the young chap says, 'you're to give this other letter to Mr. Robert Audley, whose a-stayin' at the Sun Inn, in the village;' and I tells him it's all right, as I've know'd the Sun ever since I was a baby. So then he gives me the second letter, what's got nothing wrote upon the envelope, and he gives me a five-pound note, accordin' to promise; and then he says, 'Good-day, and thank you for all your trouble,'and he gets into a second-class carriage; and the last I sees of him is a face as white as a sheet of writin' paper, and a great patch of stickin'-plaster criss-crossed upon his forehead
Poor George! poor George
I went back to Audley, and I went straight to the Sun Inn, and asked for you, meanin' to deliver both letters faithful, so help me God! then; but the landlord told me as you'd started off that mornin' for London, and he didn't know when you'd come back, and he didn't know the name o' the place where you lived in London, though he said he thought it was in one o' them law courts, such as Westminster Hall or Doctors' Commons, or somethin' like that. So what was I to do? I couldn't send a letter by post, not knowin' where to direct to, and I couldn't give it into your own hands, and I'd been told partickler not to let anybody else know of it; so I'd nothing to do but to wait and see if you come back, and bide my time for givin' of it to you. "I thought I'd go over to the Court in the evenin'and see Phoebe, and find out from her when there'd be a chance of seein' her lady, for I know'd she could manage it if she liked. So I didn't go to work that day, though I ought to ha' done, and I lounged and idled about until it was nigh upon dusk, and then I goes down to the meadows behind the Court, and there I finds Phoebe sure enough, waitin' agen the wooden door in the wall, on the lookout for me. 

"I hadn't been talkin' to her long before I see there was somethink wrong with her and I told her as much. 

"Well,' she says, 'I ain't quite myself this evenin', for I had a upset yesterday, and I ain't got over it yet.' 

"'A upset, ' I says. 'You had a quarrel with your missus, I suppose.' 

"She didn't answer me directly, but she smiled the queerest smile as ever I see, and presently she says: 

"No, Luke, it weren't nothin' o' that kind; and what's more, nobody could be friendlier toward me than my lady. I think she'd do any think for me a'most; and I think, whether it was a bit o' farming stock and furniture or such like, or whether it was the good-will of a public-house, she wouldn't refuse me anythink as I asked her.' 

"I couldn't make out this, for it was only a few days before as she'd told me her missus was selfish and extravagant, and we might wait a long time before we could get what we wanted from her. 

"So I says to her, 'Why, this is rather sudden like, Phoebe;' and she says, 'Yes, it is sudden;' and she smiles again, just the same sort of smile as before. Upon that I turns round upon her sharp, and says: 

"I'll tell you what it is, my gal, you're a-keepin' somethink from me; somethink you've been told, or somethink you've found out; and if you think you're a-goin' to try that game on with me, you'll find you're very much mistaken; and so I give you warnin
But she laughed it off like, and says, 'Lor' Luke, what could have put such fancies into your head?' "'Perhaps other people can keep secrets as well as you, ' I said, 'and perhaps other people can make friends as well as you. There was a gentleman came here to see your missus yesterday, warn't there -- a tall young gentleman with a brown beard?' 

"Instead of answering of me like a Christian, my Cousin Phoebe bursts out a-cryin', and wrings her hands, and goes on awful, until I'm dashed if I can make out what she's up to. 

"But little by little I got it out of her, for I wouldn't stand no nonsense; find she told me how she'd been sittin' at work at the window of her little room, which was at the top of the house, right up in one of the gables, and overlooked the lime-walk, and the shrubbery and the well, when she see my lady walking with a strange gentleman, and they walked together for a long time, until by-and-by they
Stop
I know the rest
Well, Phoebe told me all about what she see, and she told me she'd met her lady almost directly afterward, and somethin' had passed between 'em, not much, but enough to let her missus know that the servant what she looked down upon had found out that as would put her in that servant's power to the last day of her life. "'And she is in my power, Luke, ' says Phoebe; 'and she'll do anythin' in the world for us if we keep her secret.' 

"So you see both my Lady Audley and her maid thought as the gentleman as I'd seen safe off by the London train was lying dead at the bottom of the well. If I was to give the letter they'd find out the contrary of this; and if I was to give the letter, Phoebe and me would lose the chance of gettin' started in life by her missus. 

"So I kep' the letter and kep' my secret, and my lady kep' hern. But I thought if she acted liberal by me, and gave me the money I wanted, free like, I'd tell her everythink, and make her mind easy. 

"But she didn't. Whatever she give me she throwed me as if I'd been a dog. Whenever she spoke to me, she spoke as she might have spoken to a dog; and a dog she couldn't abide the sight of. There was no word in her mouth that was too bad for me; there was no toss as she could give her head that was too proud and scornful for me; and my blood b'iled agen her, and I kep' my secret, and let her keep hern. I opened the two letters, and I read 'em, but I couldn't make much sense out of 'em, and I hid 'em away; and not a creature but me has seen 'em until this night
Your brother still lives, and has been found
He went off rather sudden like
but very quiet
It may be some comfort to her to hear that her husband did not perish in his youth by her wicked hand
if her selfish soul can hold any sentiment of pity or sorrow for others
It is not for me to blame you, Mr. Audley
for having smuggled this guilty woman out of the reach of justice, and thus, as I may say, paltered with the laws of your country. I can only remark that, had the lady fallen into my hands, she would have been very differently treated
Do you think I can read French novels and smoke mild Turkish until I am three-score-and-ten, Miss Talboys
Do you think there will not come a day in which my meerschaums will be foul, and the French novels more than usually stupid, and life altogether such a dismal monotony that I shall want to get rid of it somehow or other
I'd do all that
and do it earnestly, if I could be sure of a reward for my labor. If she would accept my reputation when it was won, and support me in the struggle by her beloved companionship. But what if she sends me away to fight the battle, and marries some hulking country squire while my back is turned
We have got on very well together, Mr. Audley
and you have been pleased to appear sufficiently happy in the quiet routine of our orderly household; nay, more, you have conformed to our little domestic regulations in a manner which I cannot refrain from saying I take as an especial compliment to myself
I trust as we have got on so remarkably well together
you will do me the honor of repeating your visit to Dorsetshire whenever you feel inclined. You will find plenty of sport among my farms, and you will meet with every politeness and attention from my tenants, if you like to bring your gun with you
I cannot think how papa can be so resigned to my poor brother's absence
for he does love him, Mr. Audley; even you must have seen lately that he does love him. But I cannot think how he can so quietly submit to his absence. If I were a man, I would go to Australia, and find him, and bring him back; if he was still to be found among the living
Shall _I_ go to look for your brother
_You
You, Mr. Audley! Do you think that I could ask you to make such a sacrifice for me, or for those I love
And do you think, Clara, that I should think any sacrifice too great a one if it were made for you? Do you think there is any voyage I would refuse to take, if I knew that you would welcome me when I came home, and thank me for having served you faithfully? I will go from one end of the continent of Australia to the other to look for your brother, if you please, Clara; and will never return alive unless I bring him with me, and will take my chance of what reward you shall give me for my labor
You are very good and generous, Mr. Audley
and I feel this offer too much to be able to thank you for it. But what you speak of could never be. By what right could I accept such a sacrifice
By the right which makes me your bounden slave forever and ever, whether you will or no. By right of the love I bear you, Clara
I love you, Clara
I love you. You may call for your father, and have me turned out of the house this moment, if you like; but I shall go on loving you all the same; and I shall love you forever and ever, whether you will or no
Clara, Clara
shall I go to Australia to look for your brother
Shall we both go, dearest? Shall we go as man and wife? Shall we go together, my dear love, and bring our brother back between us
There's lots of letters, yer honor
and there's some parcels, and there's a gentleman which has called ever so many times, and is waitin' to-night, for I towld him you'd written to me to say your rooms were to be aired
God knows that from the moment in which I sunk into the black pit, knowing the treacherous hand that had sent me to what might have been my death, my chief thought was of the safety of the woman who had betrayed me. I fell upon my feet upon a mass of slush and mire, but my shoulder was bruised, and my arm broken against the side of the well. I was stunned and dazed for a few minutes, but I roused myself by an effort, for I felt that the atmosphere I breathed was deadly. I had my Australian experiences to help me in my peril; I could climb like a cat. The stones of which the well was built were rugged and irregular, and I was able to work my way upward by planting my feet in the interstices of the stones, and resting my back at times against the opposite side of the well, helping myself as well as I could with my hands, though one arm was crippled. It was hard work, Bob, and it seems strange that a man who had long professed himself weary of his life, should take so much trouble to preserve it. I think I must have been working upward of half an hour before I got to the top; I know the time seemed an eternity of pain and peril. It was impossible for me to leave the place until after dark without being observed, so I hid myself behind a clump of laurel-bushes, and lay down on the grass faint and exhausted to wait for nightfall. The man who found me there told you the rest. Robert
Yes, my poor old friend.-- yes, he told me all
Jonathan was very kind to me, Bob
I had enough money to enable me to get on pretty well in my own quiet way and I meant to have started for the California gold fields to get more when that was gone. I might have made plenty of friends had I pleased, but I carried the old bullet in my breast; and what sympathy could I have with men who knew nothing of my grief? I yearned for the strong grasp of your hand, Bob; the friendly touch of the hand which had guided me through the darkest passage of my life
the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging their bread
</text>
