<text>
What I want, you know
what I want is to give Tom a good eddication; an eddication as'll be a bread to him. That was what I was thinking of when I gave notice for him to leave the academy at Lady-day. I mean to put him to a downright good school at Midsummer. The two years at th' academy 'ud ha' done well enough, if I'd meant to make a miller and farmer of him, for he's had a fine sight more schoolin' nor _I_ ever got. All the learnin' _my_ father ever paid for was a bit o' birch at one end and the alphabet at th' other. But I should like Tom to be a bit of a scholard, so as he might be up to the tricks o' these fellows as talk fine and write with a flourish. It 'ud be a help to me wi' these lawsuits, and arbitrations, and things. I wouldn't make a downright lawyer o' the lad,-- I should be sorry for him to be a raskill,-- but a sort o' engineer, or a surveyor, or an auctioneer and vallyer, like Riley, or one o' them smartish businesses as are all profits and no outlay, only for a big watch-chain and a high stool. They're pretty nigh all one, and they're not far off being even wi' the law, _I_ believe; for Riley looks Lawyer Wakem i' the face as hard as one cat looks another. _He's_ none frightened at him
Well, Mr. Tulliver, you know best: _I've_ no objections. But hadn't I better kill a couple o' fowl, and have th' aunts and uncles to dinner next week, so as you may hear what sister Glegg and sister Pullet have got to say about it? There's a couple o' fowl _wants_ killing
You may kill every fowl i' the yard if you like, Bessy; but I shall ask neither aunt nor uncle what I'm to do wi' my own lad
Dear heart
how can you talk so, Mr. Tulliver? But it's your way to speak disrespectful o' my family; and sister Glegg throws all the blame upo'me, though I'm sure I'm as innocent as the babe unborn. For nobody's ever heard me say as it wasn't lucky for my children to have aunts and uncles as can live independent. Howiver, if Tom's to go to a new school, I should like him to go where I can wash him and mend him; else he might as well have calico as linen, for they'd be one as yallow as th' other before they'd been washed half-a-dozen times. And then, when the box is goin' back'ard and forrard, I could send the lad a cake, or a pork-pie, or an apple; for he can do with an extry bit, bless him! whether they stint him at the meals or no. My children can eat as much victuals as most, thank God
Well, well, we won't send him out o' reach o' the carrier's cart, if other things fit in
But you mustn't put a spoke i' the wheel about the washin,' if we can't get a school near enough. That's the fault I have to find wi' you, Bessy; if you see a stick i' the road, you're allays thinkin' you can't step over it. You'd want me not to hire a good wagoner, 'cause he'd got a mole on his face
Dear heart
when did I iver make objections to a man because he'd got a mole on his face? I'm sure I'm rether fond o' the moles; for my brother, as is dead an' gone, had a mole on his brow. But I can't remember your iver offering to hire a wagoner with a mole, Mr. Tulliver. There was John Gibbs hadn't a mole on his face no more nor you have, an' I was all for having you hire _him_; an' so you did hire him, an' if he hadn't died o' th' inflammation, as we paid Dr. Turnbull for attending him, he'd very like ha' been drivin' the wagon now. He might have a mole somewhere out o' sight, but how was I to know that, Mr. Tulliver
No, no, Bessy; I didn't mean justly the mole; I meant it to stand for summat else; but niver mind -- it's puzzling work, talking is. What I'm thinking on, is how to find the right sort o' school to send Tom to, for I might be ta'en in again, as I've been wi' th' academy. I'll have nothing to do wi' a 'cademy again: whativer school I send Tom to, it sha'n't be a 'cademy; it shall be a place where the lads spend their time i' summat else besides blacking the family's shoes, and getting up the potatoes. It's an uncommon puzzling thing to know what school to pick
I know what I'll do: I'll talk it over wi' Riley; he's coming to-morrow, t' arbitrate about the dam
Well, Mr. Tulliver, I've put the sheets out for the best bed, and Kezia's got 'em hanging at the fire. They aren't the best sheets, but they're good enough for anybody to sleep in, be he who he will; for as for them best Holland sheets, I should repent buying 'em, only they'll do to lay us out in. An' if you was to die to-morrow, Mr. Tulliver, they're mangled beautiful, an' all ready, an' smell o' lavender as it 'ud be a pleasure to lay 'em out; an' they lie at the left-hand corner o' the big oak linen-chest at the back: not as I should trust anybody to look 'em out but myself
I think I've hit it, Bessy
Riley's as likely a man as any to know o' some school; he's had schooling himself, an' goes about to all sorts o' places, arbitratin' and vallyin' and that. And we shall have time to talk it over to-morrow night when the business is done. I want Tom to be such a sort o' man as Riley, you know,-- as can talk pretty nigh as well as if it was all wrote out for him, and knows a good lot o' words as don't mean much, so as you can't lay hold of 'em i' law; and a good solid knowledge o' business too
Well
so far as talking proper, and knowing everything, and walking with a bend in his back, and setting his hair up, I shouldn't mind the lad being brought up to that. But them fine-talking men from the big towns mostly wear the false shirt-fronts; they wear a frill till it's all a mess, and then hide it with a bib; I know Riley does. And then, if Tom's to go and live at Mudport, like Riley, he'll have a house with a kitchen hardly big enough to turn in, an' niver get a fresh egg for his breakfast, an' sleep up three pair o' stairs,-- or four, for what I know,-- and be burnt to death before he can get down
No, no
I've no thoughts of his going to Mudport: I mean him to set up his office at St. Ogg's, close by us, an' live at home. But
what I'm a bit afraid on is, as Tom hasn't got the right sort o' brains for a smart fellow. I doubt he's a bit slowish. He takes after your family, Bessy
Yes, that he does
he's wonderful for liking a deal o' salt in his broth. That was my brother's way, and my father's before him
It seems a bit a pity, though
as the lad should take after the mother's side instead o' the little wench. That's the worst on't wi' crossing o' breeds: you can never justly calkilate what'll come on't. The little un takes after my side, now: she's twice as 'cute as Tom. Too 'cute for a woman, I'm afraid
It's no mischief much while she's a little un; but an over-'cute woman's no better nor a long-tailed sheep,-- she'll fetch none the bigger price for that
Yes, it _is_ a mischief while she's a little un, Mr. Tulliver, for it runs to naughtiness. How to keep her in a clean pinafore two hours together passes my cunning. An' now you put me i' mind
I don't know where she is now, an' it's pretty nigh tea-time. Ah, I thought so,-- wanderin' up an' down by the water, like a wild thing: She'll tumble in some day
You talk o' 'cuteness, Mr. Tulliver
but I'm sure the child's half an idiot i' some things; for if I send her upstairs to fetch anything, she forgets what she's gone for, an' perhaps 'ull sit down on the floor i' the sunshine an' plait her hair an' sing to herself like a Bedlam creatur', all the while I'm waiting for her downstairs. That niver run i' my family, thank God! no more nor a brown skin as makes her look like a mulatter. I don't like to fly i' the face o' Providence, but it seems hard as I should have but one gell, an' her so comical
Pooh, nonsense
she's a straight, black-eyed wench as anybody need wish to see. I don't know i' what she's behind other folks's children; and she can read almost as well as the parson
But her hair won't curl all I can do with it, and she's so franzy about having it put i' paper, and I've such work as never was to make her stand and have it pinched with th' irons
Cut it off -- cut it off short
How can you talk so, Mr. Tulliver? She's too big a gell -- gone nine, and tall of her age -- to have her hair cut short; an' there's her cousin Lucy's got a row o' curls round her head, an' not a hair out o' place. It seems hard as my sister Deane should have that pretty child; I'm sure Lucy takes more after me nor my own child does. Maggie, Maggie
where's the use o' my telling you to keep away from the water? You'll tumble in and be drownded some day, an' then you'll be sorry you didn't do as mother told you
like other folks's children
Oh, dear, oh, dear, Maggie, what are you thinkin'of, to throw your bonnet down there? Take it upstairs, there's a good gell, an' let your hair be brushed, an' put your other pinafore on, an' change your shoes, do, for shame; an' come an' go on with your patchwork, like a little lady
Oh, mother
I don't _want_ to do my patchwork
What! not your pretty patchwork, to make a counterpane for your aunt Glegg
It's foolish work
tearing things to pieces to sew 'em together again. And I don't want to do anything for my aunt Glegg. I don't like her
I wonder at you, as you'll laugh at her, Mr. Tulliver
You encourage her i' naughtiness. An' her aunts will have it as it's me spoils her
people of the old school
There's a thing I've got i' my head
Ah
It's a very particular thing
it's about my boy Tom
You see, I want to put him to a new school at Midsummer
he's comin' away from the 'cademy at Lady-day, an' I shall let him run loose for a quarter; but after that I want to send him to a downright good school, where they'll make a scholard of him
Well
there's no greater advantage you can give him than a good education. Not
not that a man can't be an excellent miller and farmer, and a shrewd, sensible fellow into the bargain, without much help from the schoolmaster
I believe you
but that's where it is. I don't _mean_ Tom to be a miller and farmer. I see no fun i' that. Why, if I made him a miller an' farmer, he'd be expectin' to take to the mill an' the land, an' a-hinting at me as it was time for me to lay by an' think o' my latter end. Nay, nay, I've seen enough o' that wi' sons. I'll never pull my coat off before I go to bed. I shall give Tom an eddication an' put him to a business, as he may make a nest for himself, an' not want to push me out o' mine. Pretty well if he gets it when I'm dead an' gone. I sha'n't be put off wi' spoon-meat afore I've lost my teeth
Nay, nay
Father, Tom wouldn't be naughty to you ever; I know he wouldn't
What! they mustn't say any harm o' Tom, eh
She understands what one's talking about so as never was. And you should hear her read,-- straight off, as if she knowed it all beforehand. And allays at her book! But it's bad -- it's bad
A woman's no business wi' being so clever; it'll turn to trouble, I doubt. But bless you
she'll read the books and understand 'em better nor half the folks as are growed up
Come, come and tell me something about this book; here are some pictures,-- I want to know what they mean
Oh, I'll tell you what that means. It's a dreadful picture, isn't it? But I can't help looking at it. That old woman in the water's a witch,-- they've put her in to find out whether she's a witch or no; and if she swims she's a witch, and if she's drowned -- and killed, you know -- she's innocent, and not a witch, but only a poor silly old woman. But what good would it do her then, you know, when she was drowned? Only, I suppose, she'd go to heaven, and God would make it up to her. And this dreadful blacksmith with his arms akimbo, laughing,-- oh, isn't he ugly?-- I'll tell you what he is. He's the Devil _really_
and not a right blacksmith; for the Devil takes the shape of wicked men, and walks about and sets people doing wicked things, and he's oftener in the shape of a bad man than any other, because, you know, if people saw he was the Devil, and he roared at 'em, they'd run away, and he couldn't make 'em do what he pleased
Why, what book is it the wench has got hold on
The 'History of the Devil,' by Daniel Defoe,-- not quite the right book for a little girl
How came it among your books, Mr. Tulliver
and there's a lot more of 'em,-- sermons mostly, I think,-- but they've all got the same covers, and I thought they were all o' one sample, as you may say. But it seems one mustn't judge by th' outside. This is a puzzlin' world
Well
I advise you to put by the 'History of the Devil,' and read some prettier book. Have you no prettier books
Oh, yes
I know the reading in this book isn't pretty; but I like the pictures, and I make stories to the pictures out of my own head, you know. But I've got 'AEsop's Fables,' and a book about Kangaroos and things, and the 'Pilgrim's Progress
Ah, a beautiful book
you can't read a better
Well, but there's a great deal about the Devil in that
and I'll show you the picture of him in his true shape, as he fought with Christian
Here he is
and Tom colored him for me with his paints when he was at home last holidays,-- the body all black, you know, and the eyes red, like fire, because he's all fire inside, and it shines out at his eyes
Go, go
shut up the book, and let's hear no more o' such talk. It is as I thought -- the child 'ull learn more mischief nor good wi' the books. Go, go and see after your mother
Did you ever hear the like on't
It's a pity but what she'd been the lad,-- she'd ha' been a match for the lawyers, _she_ would. It's thewonderful's t thing
as I picked the mother because she wasn't o'er 'cute -- bein' a good-looking woman too, an' come of a rare family for managing; but I picked her from her sisters o' purpose, 'cause she was a bit weak like; for I wasn't agoin' to be told the rights o' things by my own fireside. But you see when a man's got brains himself, there's no knowing where they'll run to; an' a pleasant sort o' soft woman may go on breeding you stupid lads and 'cute wenches, till it's like as if the world was turned topsy-turvy. It's an uncommon puzzlin' thing
But your lad's not stupid, is he? I saw him, when I was here last, busy making fishing-tackle; he seemed quite up to it
Well, he isn't not to say stupid,-- he's got a notion o' things out o' door, an' a sort o' common sense, as he'd lay hold o' things by the right handle. But he's slow with his tongue, you see, and he reads but poorly, and can't abide the books, and spells all wrong, they tell me, an' as shy as can be wi' strangers, an' you never hear him say 'cute things like the little wench. Now, what I want is to send him to a school where they'll make him a bit nimble with his tongue and his pen, and make a smart chap of him. I want my son to be even wi' these fellows as have got the start o' me with having better schooling. Not but what, if the world had been left as God made it, I could ha' seen my way, and held my own wi' the best of 'em; but things have got so twisted round and wrapped up i' unreasonable words, as aren't a bit like 'em, as I'm clean at fault, often an' often. Everything winds about so -- the more straightforrad you are, the more you're puzzled
You're quite in the right of it, Tulliver
Better spend an extra hundred or two on your son's education, than leave it him in your will. I know I should have tried to do so by a son of mine, if I'd had one, though, God knows, I haven't your ready money to play with, Tulliver; and I have a houseful of daughters into the bargain
I dare say, now, you know of a school as 'ud be just the thing for Tom
I know of a very fine chance for any one that's got the necessary money and that's what you have, Tulliver. The fact is, I wouldn't recommend any friend of mine to send a boy to a regular school, if he could afford to do better. But if any one wanted his boy to get superior instruction and training, where he would be the companion of his master, and that master a first rate fellow, I know his man. I wouldn't mention the chance to everybody, because I don't think everybody would succeed in getting it, if he were to try; but I mention it to you, Tulliver, between ourselves
Ay, now, let's hear
He's an Oxford man
What! a parson
Yes, and an M.A. The bishop, I understand, thinks very highly of him: why, it was the bishop who got him his present curacy
Ah
But what can he want wi' Tom, then
Why, the fact is, he's fond of teaching, and wishes to keep up his studies, and a clergyman has but little opportunity for that in his parochial duties. He's willing to take one or two boys as pupils to fill up his time profitably. The boys would be quite of the family,-- the finest thing in the world for them; under Stelling's eye continually
But do you think they'd give the poor lad twice o' pudding
He's such a boy for pudding as never was; an' a growing boy like that,-- it's dreadful to think o' their stintin' him
And what money 'ud he want
Why, I know of a clergyman who asks a hundred and fifty with his youngest pupils, and he's not to be mentioned with Stelling, the man I speak of. I know, on good authority, that one of the chief people at Oxford said, Stelling might get the highest honors if he chose. But he didn't care about university honors; he's a quiet man -- not noisy
Ah, a deal better -- a deal better
but a hundred and fifty's an uncommon price. I never thought o' paying so much as that
A good education, let me tell you, Tulliver,-- a good education is cheap at the money. But Stelling is moderate in his terms; he's not a grasping man. I've no doubt he'd take your boy at a hundred, and that's what you wouldn't get many other clergymen to do. I'll write to him about it, if you like
But belike he's a bachelor
an' I've no opinion o' housekeepers. There was my brother, as is dead an' gone, had a housekeeper once, an' she took half the feathers out o' the best bed, an' packed 'em up an' sent 'em away. An' it's unknown the linen she made away with -- Stott her name was. It 'ud break my heart to send Tom where there's a housekeeper, an' I hope you won't think of it, Mr. Tulliver
You may set your mind at rest on that score, Mrs. Tulliver
for Stelling is married to as nice a little woman as any man need wish for a wife. There isn't a kinder little soul in the world; I know her family well. She has very much your complexion,-- light curly hair. She comes of a good Mudport family, and it's not every offer that would have been acceptable in that quarter. But Stelling's not an every-day man; rather a particular fellow as to the people he chooses to be connected with. But I _think_ he would have no objection to take your son; I _think_ he would not, on my representation
I don't know what he could have _against_ the lad
a nice fresh-skinned lad as anybody need wish to see
But there's one thing I'm thinking on
Wouldn't a parson be almost too high-learnt to bring up a lad to be a man o' business? My notion o' the parsons was as they'd got a sort o' learning as lay mostly out o' sight. And that isn't what I want for Tom. I want him to know figures, and write like print, and see into things quick, and know what folks mean, and how to wrap things up in words as aren't actionable. It's an uncommon fine thing, that is
when you can let a man know what you think of him without paying for it
Oh, my dear Tulliver
you're quite under a mistake about the clergy; all the best schoolmasters are of the clergy. The schoolmasters who are not clergymen are a very low set of men generally
Ay, that Jacobs is, at the 'cademy
To be sure,-- men who have failed in other trades, most likely. Now, a clergyman is a gentleman by profession and education; and besides that, he has the knowledge that will ground a boy, and prepare him for entering on any career with credit. There may be some clergymen who are mere bookmen; but you may depend upon it, Stelling is not one of them,-- a man that's wide awake, let me tell you. Drop him a hint, and that's enough. You talk of figures, now; you have only to say to Stelling, 'I want my son to be a thorough arithmetician,' and you may leave the rest to him
I want my son to know 'rethmetic
You see, my dear Tulliver
when you get a thoroughly educated man, like Stelling, he's at no loss to take up any branch of instruction. When a workman knows the use of his tools, he can make a door as well as a window
Ay, that's true
Well, I'll tell you what I'll do for you
and I wouldn't do it for everybody. I'll see Stelling's father-in-law, or drop him a line when I get back to Mudport, to say that you wish to place your boy with his son-in-law, and I dare say Stelling will write to you, and send you his terms
But there's no hurry, is there
for I hope, Mr. Tulliver, you won't let Tom begin at his new school before Midsummer. He began at the 'cademy at the Lady-day quarter, and you see what good's come of it
Ay, ay, Bessy, never brew wi' bad malt upo' Michael-masday, else you'll have a poor tap
But it's true there's no hurry; you've hit it there, Bessy
It might be as well not to defer the arrangement too long
for Stelling may have propositions from other parties, and I know he would not take more than two or three boarders, if so many. If I were you, I think I would enter on the subject with Stelling at once: there's no necessity for sending the boy before Midsummer, but I would be on the safe side, and make sure that nobody forestalls you
Ay, there's summat in that
Father
father, is it a long way off where Tom is to go? Sha'n't we ever go to see him
I don't know, my wench
Ask Mr. Riley; he knows
How far is it, please, sir
Oh, a long, long way off
You must borrow the seven-leagued boots to get to him
That's nonsense
Hush, Maggie! for shame of you, asking questions and chattering
Come and sit down on your little stool, and hold your tongue, do. But
is it so far off as I couldn't wash him and mend him
About fifteen miles; that's all
You can drive there and back in a day quite comfortably. Or -- Stelling is a hospitable, pleasant man -- he'd be glad to have you stay
But it's too far off for the linen, I doubt
AEneid
I've secured a good pupil for your son-in-law
Maggie, Maggie
what is to become of you if you're so naughty? I'll tell your aunt Glegg and your aunt Pullet when they come next week, and they'll never love you any more. Oh dear, oh dear! look at your clean pinafore, wet from top to bottom. Folks 'ull think it's a judgment on me as I've got such a child,-- they'll think I've done summat wicked
Yap, Yap, Tom's coming home
Hegh, hegh, Miss! you'll make yourself giddy, an' tumble down i' the dirt
Oh no, it doesn't make me giddy, Luke; may I go into the mill with you
I think you never read any book but the Bible, did you, Luke
Nay, Miss, an' not much o' that
I'm no reader, I aren't
But if I lent you one of my books, Luke? I've not got any _very_ pretty books that would be easy for you to read; but there's 'Pug's Tour of Europe,'-- that would tell you all about the different sorts of people in the world, and if you didn't understand the reading, the pictures would help you; they show the looks and ways of the people, and what they do. There are the Dutchmen, very fat, and smoking, you know, and one sitting on a barrel
Nay, Miss, I'n no opinion o' Dutchmen. There ben't much good i' knowin' about _them_
But they're our fellow-creatures, Luke; we ought to know about our fellow-creatures
Not much o' fellow-creaturs, I think, Miss; all I know -- my old master, as war a knowin' man, used to say, says he, 'If e'er I sow my wheat wi'out brinin', I'm a Dutchman,' says he; an' that war as much as to say as a Dutchman war a fool, or next door. Nay, nay, I aren't goin' to bother mysen about Dutchmen. There's fools enoo, an' rogues enoo, wi'out lookin' i' books for 'em
Oh, well
perhaps you would like 'Animated Nature' better; that's not Dutchmen, you know, but elephants and kangaroos, and the civet-cat, and the sunfish, and a bird sitting on its tail,-- I forget its name. There are countries full of those creatures, instead of horses and cows, you know. Shouldn't you like to know about them, Luke
Nay, Miss, I'n got to keep count o' the flour an' corn; I can't do wi' knowin' so many things besides my work. That's what brings folks to the gallows,-- knowin' everything but what they'n got to get their bread by. An' they're mostly lies, I think, what's printed i' the books: them printed sheets are, anyhow, as the men cry i' the streets
Why, you're like my brother Tom, Luke
Tom's not fond of reading. I love Tom so dearly, Luke,-- better than anybody else in the world. When he grows up I shall keep his house, and we shall always live together. I can tell him everything he doesn't know. But I think Tom's clever, for all he doesn't like books; he makes beautiful whipcord and rabbit-pens
Ah
but he'll be fine an' vexed, as the rabbits are all dead
Dead
Oh dear, Luke! What! the lop-eared one, and the spotted doe that Tom spent all his money to buy
As dead as moles
Oh dear, Luke
Tom told me to take care of 'em, and I forgot. What _shall_ I do
Well, you see, Miss, they were in that far tool-house, an' it was nobody's business to see to 'em. I reckon Master Tom told Harry to feed 'em, but there's no countin' on Harry_he's; _ an offal creatur as iver come about the primises, he is. He remembers nothing but his own inside -- an' I wish it'ud gripe him
Oh, Luke, Tom told me to be sure and remember the rabbits every day; but how could I, when they didn't come into my head, you know? Oh, he will be so angry with me, I know he will, and so sorry about his rabbits, and so am I sorry. Oh, what _shall_ I do
Don't you fret, Miss
they're nash things, them lop-eared rabbits; they'd happen ha' died, if they'd been fed. Things out o' natur niver thrive: God A'mighty doesn't like 'em. He made the rabbits' ears to lie back, an' it's nothin' but contrairiness to make 'em hing down like a mastiff dog's. Master Tom 'ull know better nor buy such things another time. Don't you fret, Miss. Will you come along home wi' me, and see my wife? I'm a-goin' this minute
I'm very glad his father took him back again, aren't you, Luke
For he was very sorry, you know, and wouldn't do wrong again
Eh, Miss
he'd be no great shakes, I doubt, let's feyther do what he would for him
There he is, my sweet lad! But, Lord ha' mercy! he's got never a collar on; it's been lost on the road, I'll be bound, and spoilt the set
Hallo! Yap -- what! are you there
Maggie
you don't know what I've got in _my_ pockets
No
How stodgy they look, Tom! Is it marls (marbles) or cobnuts
Marls! no; I've swopped all my marls with the little fellows, and cobnuts are no fun, you silly, only when the nuts are green. But see here
What is it
I can see nothing but a bit of yellow
Why, it's -- a -- new -- guess, Maggie
Oh, I _can't_ guess, Tom
Don't be a spitfire, else I won't tell you
No, Tom
I'm not cross, Tom; it was only because I can't bear guessing. _Please_ be good to me
Well, then, it's a new fish-line -- two new uns,-- one for you, Maggie, all to yourself. I wouldn't go halves in the toffee and gingerbread on purpose to save the money; and Gibson and Spouncer fought with me because I wouldn't. And here's hooks; see here -- I say_won't, _ we go and fish to-morrow down by the Round Pool? And you shall catch your own fish, Maggie and put the worms on, and everything; won't it be fun
Wasn't I a good brother, now, to buy you a line all to yourself? You know, I needn't have bought it, if I hadn't liked
Yes, very, very good -- I _do_ love you, Tom
And the fellows fought me, because I wouldn't give in about the toffee
Oh, dear! I wish they wouldn't fight at your school, Tom. Didn't it hurt you
Hurt me? no
I gave Spouncer a black eye, I know; that's what he got by wanting to leather _me;_ I wasn't going to go halves because anybody leathered me
Oh, how brave you are, Tom! I think you're like Samson. If there came a lion roaring at me, I think you'd fight him, wouldn't you, Tom
How can a lion come roaring at you, you silly thing? There's no lions, only in the shows
No; but if we were in the lion countries -- I mean in Africa, where it's very hot; the lions eat people there. I can show it you in the book where I read it
Well, I should get a gun and shoot him
But if you hadn't got a gun,-- we might have gone out, you know, not thinking, just as we go fishing; and then a great lion might run toward us roaring, and we couldn't get away from him. What should you do, Tom
But the lion _isn't_ coming. What's the use of talking
But I like to fancy how it would be
Just think what you would do, Tom
Oh, don't bother, Maggie! you're such a silly. I shall go and see my rabbits
Tom
how much money did you give for your rabbits
Two half-crowns and a sixpence
I think I've got a great deal more than that in my steel purse upstairs. I'll ask mother to give it you
What for
I don't want _your_ money, you silly thing. I've got a great deal more money than you, because I'm a boy. I always have half-sovereigns and sovereigns for my Christmas boxes because I shall be a man, and you only have five-shilling pieces, because you're only a girl
Well, but, Tom -- if mother would let me give you two half-crowns and a sixpence out of my purse to put into your pocket and spend, you know, and buy some more rabbits with it
More rabbits? I don't want any more
Oh, but, Tom, they're all dead
You forgot to feed 'em, then, and Harry forgot
I'll pitch into Harry. I'll have him turned away. And I don't love you, Maggie. You sha'n't go fishing with me to-morrow. I told you to go and see the rabbits every day
Yes, but I forgot -- and I couldn't help it, indeed, Tom. I'm so very sorry
You're a naughty girl
and I'm sorry I bought you the fish-line. I don't love you
Oh, Tom, it's very cruel
I'd forgive you, if _you_ forgot anything -- I wouldn't mind what you did -- I'd forgive you and love you
Yes, you're silly; but I never _do_ forget things, _I_ don't
Oh, please forgive me, Tom; my heart will break
Now, Maggie, you just listen. Aren't I a good brother to you
Ye-ye-es
Didn't I think about your fish-line all this quarter, and mean to buy it, and saved my money o' purpose, and wouldn't go halves in the toffee, and Spouncer fought me because I wouldn't
Ye-ye-es -- and I -- lo-lo-love you so, Tom
But you're a naughty girl. Last holidays you licked the paint off my lozenge-box, and the holidays before that you let the boat drag my fish-line down when I'd set you to watch it, and you pushed your head through my kite, all for nothing
But I didn't mean
I couldn't help it
Yes, you could
if you'd minded what you were doing. And you're a naughty girl, and you sha'n't go fishing with me to-morrow
Oh, he is cruel
Why, where's the little wench
Where's your little sister
I don't know
What! hasn't she been playing with you all this while
She'd been thinking o' nothing but your coming home
I haven't seen her this two hours
Goodness heart; she's got drownded
How could you let her do so
Nay, nay, she's none drownded
You've been naughty to her, I doubt, Tom
I'm sure I haven't, father
I think she's in the house
Perhaps up in that attic
a-singing and talking to herself, and forgetting all about meal-times
You go and fetch her down, Tom
the little un
And be good to her, do you hear? Else I'll let you know better
Never mind, my wench
Maggie, you're to come down
Oh, Tom, please forgive me -- I can't bear it -- I will always be good -- always remember things -- do love me -- please, dear Tom
Don't cry, then, Magsie; here, eat a bit o' cake
Come along, Magsie, and have tea
stuff
Look, look, Maggie
O Magsie, you little duck! Empty the basket
the river over which there is no bridge
God's birds
A puff o' wind 'ud make 'em blow about like feathers
I'd as lief not invite sister Deane this time
for she's as jealous and having as can be, and's allays trying to make the worst o' my poor children to their aunts and uncles
Yes, yes
ask her to come. I never hardly get a bit o' talk with Deane now; we haven't had him this six months. What's it matter what she says? My children need be beholding to nobody
That's what you allays say, Mr. Tulliver; but I'm sure there's nobody o' your side, neither aunt nor uncle, to leave 'em so much as a five-pound note for a leggicy. And there's sister Glegg, and sister Pullet too, saving money unknown, for they put by all their own interest and butter-money too; their husbands buy 'em everything
Tchuh
It takes a big loaf when there's many to breakfast. What signifies your sisters' bits o' money when they've got half-a-dozen nevvies and nieces to divide it among? And your sister Deane won't get 'em to leave all to one, I reckon, and make the country cry shame on 'em when they are dead
I don't know what she won't get 'em to do
for my children are so awk'ard wi' their aunts and uncles. Maggie's ten times naughtier when they come than she is other days, and Tom doesn't like 'em, bless him!-- though it's more nat'ral in a boy than a gell. And there's Lucy Dean's such a good child,-- you may set her on a stool, and thereshe'll sit for an hour together, and never offer to get off. I can't help loving the child as if she was my own; and I'm sure she's more like _my_ child than sister Deane's, for she'd allays a very poor color for one of our family, sister Deane had
Well, well, if you're fond o' the child, ask her father and mother to bring her with 'em. And won't you ask their aunt and uncle Moss too, and some o' _their_ children
Oh, dear, Mr. Tulliver, why, there'd be eight people besides the children, and I must put two more leaves i' the table, besides reaching down more o' the dinner-service; and you know as well as I do as _my_ sisters and _your_ sister don't suit well together
Well, well, do as you like, Bessy
strange houses
kin
no kin
Tom
shall you run away to-morrow
No
no, I sha'n't
Why, Tom? Because Lucy's coming
No
What do _I_ care about Lucy? She's only a girl,-- _she_ can't play at bandy
Is it the tipsy-cake, then
No, you silly, that'll be good the day after. It's the pudden. I know what the pudden's to be,-- apricot roll-up -- O my buttons
Shut your eyes, Maggie
What for
You never mind what for. Shut 'em when I tell you
Now, which'll you have, Maggie,-- right hand or left
I'll have that with the jam run out
Why, you don't like that, you silly. You may have it if it comes to you fair, but I sha'n't give it you without. Right or left,-- you choose, now. Ha-a-a
You keep your eyes shut, now, else you sha'n't have any
say which
Left hand
You've got it
What! the bit with the jam run out
No; here, take it
Oh, please, Tom, have it; I don't mind -- I like the other; please take this
No, I sha'n't
Oh, you greedy thing
Oh, Tom, why didn't you ask me
I wasn't going to ask you for a bit, you greedy. You might have thought of it without, when you knew I gave you the best bit
But I wanted you to have it; you know I did
Yes, but I wasn't going to do what wasn't fair, like Spouncer. He always takes the best bit, if you don't punch him for it; and if you choose the best with your eyes shut, he changes his hands. But if I go halves, I'll go 'em fair; only I wouldn't be a greedy
hoigh
virtue in rags
I know the chap as owns the ferrets
He lives up the Kennel Yard at Sut Ogg's, he does. He's the biggest rot-catcher anywhere, he is. I'd sooner, be a rot-catcher nor anything, I would. The moles is nothing to the rots. But Lors! you mun ha' ferrets. Dogs is no good. Why, there's that dog, now
he's no more good wi' a rot nor nothin'. I see it myself, I did, at the rot-catchin' i' your feyther's barn
No, no
Yap's no good at sport. I'll have regular good dogs for rats and everything, when I've done school
Hev ferrets, Measter Tom
them white ferrets wi' pink eyes; Lors, you might catch your own rots, an' you might put a rot in a cage wi' a ferret, an' see 'em fight, you might. That's what I'd do, I know, an' it 'ud be better fun a'most nor seein' two chaps fight,-- if it wasn't them chaps as sold cakes an' oranges at the Fair, as the things flew out o' their baskets, an' some o' the cakes was smashed -- But they tasted just as good
But, I say, Bob
ferrets are nasty biting things,-- they'll bite a fellow without being set on
Lors! why that's the beauty on 'em. If a chap lays hold o' your ferret, he won't be long before he hollows out a good un, _he_ won't
Hoigh! Yap,-- hoigh! there he is
Seize him, lad! seize him
Ugh! you coward
He's none so full now, the Floss isn't
Why, last 'ear, the meadows was all one sheet o' water, they was
Ay, but
but there was a big flood once, when the Round Pool was made. _I_ know there was, 'cause father says so. And the sheep and cows all drowned, and the boats went all over the fields ever such a way
_I_ don't care about a flood comin
I don't mind the water, no more nor the land. I'd swim, _I_ would
Ah, but if you got nothing to eat for ever so long
When I'm a man, I shall make a boat with a wooden house on the top of it, like Noah's ark, and keep plenty to eat in it,-- rabbits and things,-- all ready. And then if the flood came, you know, Bob, I shouldn't mind. And I'd take you in, if I saw you swimming
I aren't frighted
But I'd get in an' knock the rabbits on th' head when you wanted to eat 'em
Ah, and I should have halfpence, and we'd play at heads-and-tails
I'd divide fair to begin with, and then we'd see who'd win
I've got a halfpenny o' my own
Yeads or tails
Tails
It's yeads
It wasn't
You give me the halfpenny; I've won it fair
I sha'n't
Then I'll make you; see if I don't
Yes, I can
You can't make me do nothing, you can't
No, you can't
I'm master
I don't care for you
But I'll make you care, you cheat
You get out wi' you
_You_, say you'll give me the halfpenny now
You give me the halfpenny now
Take it
No, I sha'n't take it; you give it me
There the halfpenny lies
I don't want your halfpenny; I wouldn't have kept it. But you wanted to cheat; I hate a cheat. I sha'n't go along with you any more
You may let it alone, then
I shall cheat if I like; there's no fun i' playing else; and I know where there's a goldfinch's nest, but I'll take care _you_ don't. An' you're a nasty fightin' turkey-cock, you are
Go along wi' you, then, wi' your drowned dog; I wouldn't own such a dog -- _I_ wouldn't
An' I'n gi'en you everything, an' showed you everything, an' niver wanted nothin' from you. An' there's your horn-handed knife, then as you gi'en me
I'd do just the same again
I don't know what ails sister Pullet
It used to be the way in our family for one to be as early as another,-- I'm sure it was so in my poor father's time,-- and not for one sister to sit half an hour before the others came. But if the ways o' the family are altered, it sha'n't be _my_ fault_I'll; _ never be the one to come into a house when all the rest are going away. I wonder _at_ sister Deane,-- she used to be more like me. But if you'll take my advice, Bessy, you'll put the dinner forrard a bit, sooner than put it back, because folks are late as ought to ha' known better
Oh dear, there's no fear but what they'll be all here in time, sister
The dinner won't be ready till half-past one. But if it's long for you to wait, let me fetch you a cheesecake and a glass o' wine
Well, Bessy
I should ha' thought you'd known your own sister better. I never _did_ eat between meals, and I'm not going to begin. Not but what I hate that nonsense of having your dinner at half-past one, when you might have it at one. You was never brought up in that way, Bessy
Why, Jane, what can I do? Mr. Tulliver doesn't like his dinner before two o'clock, but I put it half an hour earlier because o' you
Yes, yes, I know how it is with husbands,-- they're for putting everything off; they'll put the dinner off till after tea, if they've got wives as are weak enough to give in to such work; but it's a pity for you, Bessy, as you haven't got more strength o' mind. It'll be well if your children don't suffer for it. And I hope you've not gone and got a great dinner for us,-- going to expense for your sisters, as 'ud sooner eat a crust o' dry bread nor help to ruin you with extravagance. I wonder you don't take pattern by your sister Deane; she's far more sensible. And here you've got two children to provide for, and your husband's spent your fortin i' going to law, and's likely to spend his own too. A boiled joint, as you could make broth of for the kitchen
and a plain pudding, with a spoonful o' sugar, and no spice, 'ud be far more becoming
Mr. Tulliver says he always _will_ have a good dinner for his friends while he can pay for it
and he's a right to do as he likes in his own house, sister
Well, Bessy, _I_ can't leave your children enough out o' my savings to keep 'em from ruin. And you mustn't look to having any o' Mr. Glegg's money, for it's well if I don't go first,-- he comes of a long-lived family; and if he was to die and leave me well for my life, he'd tie all the money up to go back to his own kin
four-wheel
Why, whativer is the matter, sister
Well, sister, you're late; what's the matter
She's gone
It isn't the glass this time, then
Died the day before yesterday
They'd tapped her no end o' times, and the water -- they say you might ha' swum in it, if you'd liked
Well, Sophy, it's a mercy she's gone, then, whoever she may be
but I can't think who you're talking of, for my part
But _I_ know
and there isn't another such a dropsy in the parish. _I_ know as it's old Mrs. Sutton o' the Twentylands
Well, she's no kin o' yours, nor much acquaintance as I've ever heared of
kin
She's so much acquaintance as I've seen her legs when they was like bladders. And an old lady as had doubled her money over and over again, and kept it all in her own management to the last, and had her pocket with her keys in under her pillow constant. There isn't many old _par_ish'ners like her, I doubt
And they say she'd took as much physic as 'ud fill a wagon
Ah
she'd another complaint ever so many years before she had the dropsy, and the doctors couldn't make out what it was. And she said to me, when I went to see her last Christmas, she said, 'Mrs. Pullet, if ever you have the dropsy, you'll think o' me.' She _did_ say so
those were her very words. And she's to be buried o' Saturday, and Pullet's bid to the funeral
Sophy
Sophy, I wonder _at_ you, fretting and injuring your health about people as don't belong to you. Your poor father never did so, nor your aunt Frances neither, nor any o' the family as I ever heard of. You couldn't fret no more than this, if we'd heared as our cousin Abbott had died sudden without making his will
Mrs. Sutton didn't die without making her will, though
ours is a rich parish, but they say there's nobody else to leave as many thousands behind 'em as Mrs. Sutton. And she's left no leggicies to speak on,-- left it all in a lump to her husband's nevvy
There wasn't much good i' being so rich, then
if she'd got none but husband's kin to leave it to. It's poor work when that's all you've got to pinch yourself for. Not as I'm one o' those as 'ud like to die without leaving more money out at interest than other folks had reckoned; but it's a poor tale when it must go out o' your own family
I'm sure, sister
it's a nice sort o' man as Mrs. Sutton has left her money to, for he's troubled with the asthmy, and goes to bed every night at eight o'clock. He told me about it himself -- as free as could be -- one Sunday when he came to our church. He wears a hareskin on his chest, and has a trembling in his talk,-- quite a gentleman sort o' man. I told him there wasn't many months in the year as I wasn't under the doctor's hands. And he said, 'Mrs. Pullet, I can feel for you.' That was what he said,-- the very words. Ah
Sister, I may as well go and take my bonnet off now. Did you see as the cap-box was put out
They'll bring it upstairs, sister
Oh, Lucy
you'll stay with Tom and me, won't you? Oh, kiss her, Tom
How do you do
Heyday
Do little boys and gells come into a room without taking notice of their uncles and aunts? That wasn't the way when _I_ was a little gell
Go and speak to your aunts and uncles, my dears
Well, and how do you do? And I hope you're good children, are you
Look up, Tom, look up. Boys as go to boarding-schools should hold their heads up. Look at me now
Put your hair behind your ears, Maggie, and keep your frock on your shoulder
Well, my dears
you grow wonderful fast. I doubt they'll outgrow their strength
I think the gell has too much hair. I'd have it thinned and cut shorter, sister, if I was you; it isn't good for her health. It's that as makes her skin so brown, I shouldn't wonder. Don't you think so, sister Deane
I can't say, I'm sure, sister
No, no
the child's healthy enough; there's nothing ails her. There's red wheat as well as white, for that matter, and some like the dark grain best. But it 'ud be as well if Bessy 'ud have the child's hair cut, so as it 'ud lie smooth
You wouldn't like to stay behind without mother, should you, Lucy
Yes, please, mother
Well done, Lucy! Let her stay, Mrs. Deane, let her stay
Maggie
go and get your hair brushed, do, for shame. I told you not to come in without going to Martha first, you know I did
Tom come out with me
Come upstairs with me, Tom
There's something I want to do before dinner
There's no time to play at anything before dinner
Oh yes, there is time for this; _do_ come, Tom
What are they for, Maggie
Oh, my buttons! Maggie, you'll catch it
you'd better not cut any more off
Here, Tom, cut it behind for me
You'll catch it, you know
Never mind, make haste
Oh, Maggie
Oh, my buttons! what a queer thing you look! Look at yourself in the glass; you look like the idiot we throw out nutshells to at school
Oh, Maggie, you'll have to go down to dinner directly
Oh, my
Don't laugh at me, Tom
Now, then, spitfire
What did you cut it off for, then? I shall go down: I can smell the dinner going in
didn't mind
Ah, my child, you will have real troubles to fret about by and by
half
Miss Maggie, you're to come down this minute
Lawks! what have you been a-doing? I never _see_ such a fright
Don't, Kezia
Go away
But I tell you you're to come down, Miss, this minute; your mother says so
Get away, Kezia; I don't want any dinner
I sha'n't come
Oh, well, I can't stay. I've got to wait at dinner
Maggie, you little silly
why don't you come and have your dinner? There's lots o' goodies, and mother says you're to come. What are you crying for, you little spooney
Won't you come, then, Magsie? Shall I bring you a bit o' pudding when I've had mine, and a custard and things
Ye-e-es
Very well
But you'd better come, you know. There's the dessert,-- nuts, you know, and cowslip wine
Heyday! what little gell's this? Why, I don't know her. Is it some little gell you've picked up in the road, Kezia
Why, she's gone and cut her hair herself
Did you ever know such a little hussy as it is
Why, little miss, you've made yourself look very funny
Fie, for shame
Little gells as cut their own hair should be whipped and fed on bread and water,-- not come and sit down with their aunts and uncles
Ay, ay
she must be sent to jail, I think, and they'll cut the rest of her hair off there, and make it all even
She's more like a gypsy nor ever
it's very bad luck, sister, as the gell should be so brown; the boy's fair enough. I doubt it'll stand in her way i' life to be so brown
She's a naughty child, as'll break her mother's heart
Oh, my! Maggie, I told you you'd catch it
Come, come, my wench
never mind; you was i' the right to cut it off if it plagued you; give over crying; father'll take your part
How your husband does spoil that child, Bessy
aside
It'll be the ruin of her, if you don't take care. _My_ father never brought his children up so, else we should ha' been a different sort o' family to what we are
Mr. Tulliver
it's time now to tell the children's aunts and uncles what you're thinking of doing with Tom, isn't it
Very well
I've no objections to tell anybody what I mean to do with him. I've settled
I've settled to send him to a Mr. Stelling, a parson, down at King's Lorton, there,-- an uncommon clever fellow, I understand, as'll put him up to most things
Why, what can you be going to send him to a parson for
Why, because the parsons are the best schoolmasters, by what I can make out
Jacobs at th' academy's no parson, and he's done very bad by the boy; and I made up my mind, if I send him to school again, it should be to somebody different to Jacobs. And this Mr. Stelling, by what I can make out, is the sort o' man I want. And I mean my boy to go to him at Midsummer
You'll have to pay a swinging half-yearly bill, then, eh, Tulliver? The clergymen have highish notions, in general
What! do you think the parson'll teach him to know a good sample o' wheat when he sees it, neighbor Tulliver
Why, you see, I've got a plan i' my head about Tom
Well, if I may be allowed to speak, and it's seldom as I am
I should like to know what good is to come to the boy by bringin' him up above his fortin
Why
you see, I've made up my mind not to bring Tom up to my own business. I've had my thoughts about it all along, and I made up my mind by what I saw with Garnett and _his_ son. I mean to put him to some business as he can go into without capital, and I want to give him an eddication as he'll be even wi' the lawyers and folks, and put me up to a notion now an' then
It 'ud be a fine deal better for some people
if they'd let the lawyers alone
Is he at the head of a grammar school, then, this clergyman, such as that at Market Bewley
No, nothing of that
He won't take more than two or three pupils, and so he'll have the more time to attend to 'em, you know
Ah, and get his eddication done the sooner; they can't learn much at a time when there's so many of 'em
But he'll want the more pay, I doubt
Ay, ay, a cool hundred a year, that's all
But then, you know, it's an investment; Tom's eddication 'ull be so much capital to him
Ay, there's something in that
I remember seeing those two lines wrote on a window at Buxton. But us that have got no learning had better keep our money, eh, neighbor Pullet
Mr. Glegg, I wonder _at_ you
It's very unbecoming in a man o' your age and belongings
What's unbecoming, Mrs. G
My new blue coat as I've got on
I pity your weakness, Mr. Glegg. I say it's unbecoming to be making a joke when you see your own kin going headlongs to ruin
If you mean me by that
you needn't trouble yourself to fret about me. I can manage my own affairs without troubling other folks
Bless me
why, now I come to think of it, somebody said Wakem was going to send _his_ son -- the deformed lad -- to a clergyman, didn't they, Susan
I can give no account of it, I'm sure
Well
if Wakem thinks o' sending his son to a clergyman, depend on it I shall make no mistake i' sending Tom to one. Wakem's as big a scoundrel as Old Harry ever made, but he knows the length of every man's foot he's got to deal with. Ay, ay, tell me who's Wakem's butcher, and I'll tell you where to get your meat
But lawyer Wakem's son's got a hump-back
it's more nat'ral to send _him_ to a clergyman
Yes
you must consider that, neighbor Tulliver; Wakem's son isn't likely to follow any business. Wakem 'ull make a gentleman of him, poor fellow
Mr. Glegg
you'd far better hold your tongue. Mr. Tulliver doesn't want to know your opinion nor mine either. There's folks in the world as know better than everybody else
Why, I should think that's you, if we're to trust your own tale
Oh, _I_ say nothing
My advice has never been asked, and I don't give it
It'll be the first time, then
It's the only thing you're over-ready at giving
I've been over-ready at lending, then, if I haven't been over-ready at giving
There's folks I've lent money to, as perhaps I shall repent o' lending money to kin
Come, come, come
You've got a bond for it, I reckon
and you've had your five per cent, kin or no kin
Sister
drink your wine, and let me give you some almonds and raisins
Bessy, I'm sorry for you
It's poor work talking o' almonds and raisins
Lors, sister Glegg, don't be so quarrelsome
You may be struck with a fit, getting so red in the face after dinner, and we are but just out o' mourning, all of us,-- and all wi' gowns craped alike and just put by; it's very bad among sisters
I should think it _is_ bad
Things are come to a fine pass when one sister invites the other to her house o' purpose to quarrel with her and abuse her
Softly, softly, Jane; be reasonable, be reasonable
Who wants to quarrel with you
It's you as can't let people alone, but must be gnawing at 'em forever. _I_ should never want to quarrel with any woman if she kept her place
My place, indeed
There's your betters, Mr. Tulliver, as are dead and in their grave, treated me with a different sort o' respect to what you do; _though_ I've got a husband as'll sit by and see me abused by them as 'ud never ha' had the chance if there hadn't been them in our family as married worse than they might ha' done
If you talk o' that
my family's as good as yours, and better, for it hasn't got a damned ill-tempered woman in it
Well
I don't know whether you think it's a fine thing to sit by and hear me swore at, Mr. Glegg; but I'm not going to stay a minute longer in this house. You can stay behind, and come home with the gig, and I'll walk home
Dear heart, dear heart
Mr. Tulliver, how could you talk so
Let her go
Let her go, and the sooner the better; she won't be trying to domineer over _me_ again in a hurry
Sister Pullet
do you think it 'ud be any use for you to go after her and try to pacify her
Better not, better not
You'll make it up another day
Then, sisters, shall we go and look at the children
Suppose sister Glegg should call her money in; it 'ud be very awkward for you to have to raise five hundred pounds now
Markis o' Granby
Dickison's
Brother, I'm glad to see you
I didn't look for you to-day. How do you do
Oh, pretty well, Mrs. Moss, pretty well
Your husband isn't in the house, I suppose
No
but he's only in the potato-field yonders. Georgy, run to the Far Close in a minute, and tell father your uncle's come. You'll get down, brother, won't you, and take something
No, no; I can't get down. I must be going home again directly
And how's Mrs. Tulliver and the children
Oh, pretty well. Tom's going to a new school at Midsummer,-- a deal of expense to me. It's bad work for me, lying out o' my money
I wish you'd be so good as let the children come and see their cousins some day. My little uns want to see their cousin Maggie so as never was. And me her godmother, and so fond of her; there's nobody 'ud make a bigger fuss with her, according to what they've got. And I know she likes to come, for she's a loving child, and how quick and clever she is, to be sure
Ay; she's fonder o' you than o' the other aunts, I think. She takes after our family: not a bit of her mother's in her
Moss says she's just like what I used to be
though I was never so quick and fond o' the books. But I think my Lizzy's like her_she's; _ sharp. Come here, Lizzy, my dear, and let your uncle see you; he hardly knows you, you grow so fast
Ay, they're a bit alike
They both take after our mother. You've got enough o' gells, Gritty
Four of 'em, bless 'em
as many as there's boys. They've got a brother apiece
Ah, but they must turn out and fend for themselves
They mustn't look to hanging on their brothers
No; but I hope their brothers 'ull love the poor things, and remember they came o' one father and mother; the lads 'ull never be the poorer for that
Stand still with you
And the more there is of 'em, the more they must love one another
Not but what I hope your boy 'ull allays be good to his sister, though there's but two of 'em, like you and me, brother
Ay, ay, Gritty
but I've allays done what I could for you
I'm not denying that, brother, and I'm noways ungrateful
But here's the father. What a while you've been, Moss
While, do you call it
I've been running all the way. Won't you 'light, Mr. Tulliver
Well, I'll just get down and have a bit o' talk with you in the garden
Why, you've got wheat again in that Corner Close, I see; and never a bit o' dressing on it. You'll do no good with it this year
Why, poor farmers like me must do as they can; they must leave it to them as have got money to play with, to put half as much into the ground as they mean to get out of it
I don't know who should have money to play with, if it isn't them as can borrow money without paying interest
I know I'm behind with the interest
but I was so unlucky wi' the wool last year; and what with the Missis being laid up so, things have gone awk'arder nor usual
Ay
there's folks as things 'ull allays go awk'ard with; empty sacks 'ull never stand upright
Well, I don't know what fault you've got to find wi' me, Mr. Tulliver
I know there isn't a day-laborer works harder
What's the use o' that
when a man marries, and's got no capital to work his farm but his wife's bit o' fortin? I was against it from the first; but you'd neither of you listen to me. And I can't lie out o' my money any longer, for I've got to pay five hundred o' Mrs. Glegg's, and there'll be Tom an expense to me. I should find myself short, even saying I'd got back all as is my own. You must look about and see how you can pay me the three hundred pound
Well, if that's what you mean
we'd better be sold up, and ha' done with it; I must part wi' every head o' stock I've got, to pay you and the landlord too
Well, you must do as you can. _I_ can't find money for everybody else as well as myself. I must look to my own business and my own family. I can't lie out o' my money any longer. You must raise it as quick as you can
Won't you come in, brother
No, no; good-by
Poor little wench! she'll have nobody but Tom, belike, when I'm gone
The father's gone to the field, again, if you want him, brother
No, Gritty, no
Don't you fret,-- that's all,-- I'll make a shift without the money a bit, only you must be as clever and contriving as you can
Come, come!-- the little wench shall come and see you. I'll bring her and Tom some day before he goes to school. You mustn't fret. I'll allays be a good brother to you
Thank you for that word, brother
Run now, and fetch the colored egg for cousin Maggie
It's boiled hard, brother, and colored with thrums, very pretty; it was done o' purpose for Maggie. Will you please to carry it in your pocket
Ay, ay
Good-by
See here! tut, tut, tut
Don't, Maggie, my dear; don't make yourself so ugly
a stupid
Don't laugh at me, Tom
I'm not a stupid. I know a great many things you don't
Oh, I dare say, Miss Spitfire! I'd never be such a cross thing as you, making faces like that. Lucy doesn't do so. I like Lucy better than you; _I_ wish Lucy was _my_ sister
Then it's very wicked and cruel of you to wish so
Oh, Tom
I didn't mean to knock it down, indeed, indeed I didn't
Maggie, shouldn't _you_ like one
Stop the children, for God's sake! Bessy; don't let 'em come up the door-steps; Sally's bringing the old mat and the duster, to rub their shoes
Mrs. Gray has sent home my new bonnet, Bessy
Has she, sister
And how do you like it
It's apt to make a mess with clothes, taking 'em out and putting 'em in again
but it 'ud be a pity for you to go away without seeing it. There's no knowing what may happen
I'm afraid it'll be troublesome to you getting it out, sister
but I _should_ like to see what sort of a crown she's made you
You must come with me into the best room
May the children come too, sister
Well
it'll perhaps be safer for 'em to come; they'll be touching something if we leave 'em behind
Well, sister, I'll never speak against the full crowns again
You'd like to see it on, sister
I'll open the shutter a bit further
Well, if you don't mind taking off your cap, sister
I've sometimes thought there's a loop too much o' ribbon on this left side, sister; what do you think
Well, I think it's best as it is; if you meddled with it, sister, you might repent
That's true
How much might she charge you for that bonnet, sister
Pullet pays for it; he said I was to have the best bonnet at Garum Church, let the next best be whose it would
Ah
I may never wear it twice, sister; who knows
Don't talk o' that sister
I hope you'll have your health this summer
Ah! but there may come a death in the family, as there did soon after I had my green satin bonnet. Cousin Abbott may go, and we can't think o' wearing crape less nor half a year for him
That _would_ be unlucky
There's never so much pleasure i' wearing a bonnet the second year, especially when the crowns are so chancy,-- never two summers alike
Ah, it's the way i' this world
Sister, if you should never see that bonnet again till I'm dead and gone, you'll remember I showed it you this day
Young sir
Well, young sir, what do you learn at school
I don't know
rich fellow
Do you like peppermints, young sir
pretty Scripture thing
Will you please play us a tune, uncle
We'll see about it
Hush, ye pretty warbling choir
Oh, Tom, isn't it pretty
Look there, now
Why don't you sit still, Maggie
Little gells mustn't come to see me if they behave in that way
Why, you're too rough, little miss
It weighs on my mind so as never was
sister Glegg's leaving the house in that way. I'm sure I'd no wish t' offend a sister
Ah
there's no accounting for what Jane 'ull do. I wouldn't speak of it out o' the family, if it wasn't to Dr. Turnbull; but it's my belief Jane lives too low. I've said so to Pullet often and often, and he knows it
Why, you said so last Monday was a week, when we came away from drinking tea with 'em
Very like I did
for you remember when I said things, better than I can remember myself. He's got a wonderful memory, Pullet has
I should be poorly off if he was to have a stroke, for he always remembers when I've got to take my doctor's stuff; and I'm taking three sorts now
There's the 'pills as before' every other night, and the new drops at eleven and four, and the 'fervescing mixture 'when agreeable
Ah, perhaps it 'ud be better for sister Glegg if _she'd_ go to the doctor sometimes, instead o' chewing Turkey rhubard whenever there's anything the matter with her
It's dreadful to think on
people playing with their own insides in that way! And it's flying i' the face o' Providence; for what are the doctors for, if we aren't to call 'em in? And when folks have got the money to pay for a doctor, it isn't respectable, as I've told Jane many a time. I'm ashamed of acquaintance knowing it
Well, _we've_ no call to be ashamed
for Doctor Turnbull hasn't got such another patient as you i' this parish, now old Mrs. Sutton's gone
Pullet keeps all my physic-bottles, did you know, Bessy
He won't have one sold. He says it's nothing but right folks should see 'em when I'm gone. They fill two o' the long store-room shelvesa're ady; but
it's well if they ever fill three. I may go before I've made up the dozen o' these last sizes. The pill-boxes are in the closet in my room,-- you'll remember that, sister,-- but there's nothing to show for the boluses, if it isn't the bills
Don't talk o' your going, sister
I should have nobody to stand between me and sister Glegg if you was gone. And there's nobody but you can get her to make it up with Mr. Tulliver, for sister Deane's never o' my side, and if she was, it's not to be looked for as she can speak like them as have got an independent fortin
Well, your husband _is_ awk'ard, you know, Bessy
He's never behaved quite so pretty to our family as he should do, and the children take after him,-- the boy's very mischievous, and runs away from his aunts and uncles, and the gell's rude and brown. It's your bad luck, and I'm sorry for you, Bessy; for you was allays my favorite sister, and we allays liked the same patterns
I know Tulliver's hasty, and says odd things
but I'm sure he's never been the man, since he married me, to object to my making the friends o' my side o' the family welcome to the house
_I_ don't want to make the worst of you, Bessy
for I doubt you'll have trouble enough without that; and your husband's got that poor sister and her children hanging on him,-- and so given to lawing, they say. I doubt he'll leave you poorly off when he dies. Not as I'd have it said out o' the family
I'm sure, sister, I can't help myself
There's no woman strives more for her children; and I'm sure at scouring-time this Lady-day as I've had all the bedhangings taken down I did as much as the two gells put together; and there's the last elder-flower wine I've made -- beautiful! I allays offer it along with the sherry, though sister Glegg will have it I'm so extravagant; and as for liking to have my clothes tidy, and not go a fright about the house, there's nobody in the parish can say anything against me in respect o' backbiting and making mischief, for I don't wish anybody any harm; and nobody loses by sending me a porkpie, for my pies are fit to show with the best o' my neighbors'; and the linen's so in order as if I was to die to-morrow I shouldn't be ashamed. A woman can do no more nor she can
But it's all o' no use, you know, Bessy
if your husband makes away with his money. Not but what if you was sold up, and other folks bought your furniture, it's a comfort to think as you've kept it well rubbed. And there's the linen, with your maiden mark on, might go all over the country. It 'ud be a sad pity for our family
But what can I do, sister
Mr. Tulliver's not a man to be dictated to,-- not if I was to go to the parson and get by heart what I should tell my husband for the best. And I'm sure I don't pretend to know anything about putting out money and all that. I could never see into men's business as sister Glegg does
Well, you're like me in that, Bessy
and I think it 'ud be a deal more becoming o' Jane if she'd have that pier-glass rubbed oftener,-- there was ever so many spots on it last week,-- instead o' dictating to folks as have more comings in than she ever had, and telling 'em what they're to do with their money. But Jane and me were allays contrairy; she _would_ have striped things, and I like spots. You like a spot too, Bessy; we allays hung together i' that
Yes, Sophy
I remember our having a blue ground with a white spot both alike,-- I've got a bit in a bed-quilt now; and if you would but go and see sister Glegg, and persuade her to make it up with Tulliver, I should take it very kind of you. You was allays a good sister to me
But the right thing 'ud be for Tulliver to go and make it up with her himself, and say he was sorry for speaking so rash. If he's borrowed money of her, he shouldn't be above that
It's no use talking o' that
If I was to go down on my bare knees on the gravel to Tulliver, he'd never humble himself
Well, you can't expect me to persuade _Jane_ to beg pardon
Her temper's beyond everything; it's well if it doesn't carry her off her mind, though there never _was_ any of our family went to a madhouse
I'm not thinking of her begging pardon
But if she'd just take no notice, and not call her money in; as it's not so much for one sister to ask of another; time 'ud mend things, and Tulliver 'ud forget all about it, and they'd be friends again
Well, Bessy
_I_ don't want to help you on to ruin. I won't be behindhand i' doing you a good turn, if it is to be done. And I don't like it said among acquaintance as we've got quarrels in the family. I shall tell Jane that; and I don't mind driving to Jane's tomorrow, if Pullet doesn't mind. What do you say, Mr. Pullet
I've no objections
Here, Lucy, you come along with me
Oh, there is such a big, funny toad, Maggie! Do come and see
I say, Lucy
what do you think I mean to do
What, Tom
I mean to go to the pond and look at the pike. You may go with me if you like
Oh, Tom, _dare_ you
Aunt said we mustn't go out of the garden
Oh, I shall go out at the other end of the garden
Nobody 'ull see us. Besides, I don't care if they do,-- I'll run off home
But _I_ couldn't run
Oh, never mind; they won't be cross with _you_
You say I took you
Here, Lucy
come here! take care! keep on the grass!-- don't step where the cows have been
Now, get away, Maggie; there's no room for you on the grass here. Nobody asked _you_ to come
I shall tell mother, you know, Miss Mag
tell
justice
tell
Sally
Sally, tell mother it was Maggie pushed Lucy into the mud
But Lors ha' massy, how did you get near such mud as that
Goodness gracious
keep her at the door, Sally! Don't bring her off the oil-cloth, whatever you do
Why, she's tumbled into some nasty mud
If you please, 'um, it was Miss Maggie as pushed her in
Master Tom's been and said so, and they must ha' been to the pond, for it's only there they could ha' got into such dirt
There it is, Bessy; it's what I've been telling you
it's your children,-- there's no knowing what they'll come to
Tom, you naughty boy, where's your sister
I don't know
Why, where did you leave her
Sitting under the tree, against the pond
Then go and fetch her in this minute, you naughty boy. And how could you think o' going to the pond, and taking your sister where there was dirt? You know she'll do mischief if there's mischief to be done
They're such children for the water, mine are
they'll be brought in dead and drownded some day. I wish that river was far enough
Maggie's nowhere about the pond, mother
she's gone away
Sister, for goodness' sake let 'em put the horse in the carriage and take me home; we shall perhaps find her on the road. Lucy can't walk in her dirty clothes
half wild
That's the only money I've got
Thank you, little miss
My little lady, where are you going to
Not any farther
I'm come to stay with _you_, please
That's pretty; come, then. Why, what a nice little lady you are, to be sure
What! my pretty lady, are you come to stay with us? Sit ye down and tell us where you come from
I'm come from home because I'm unhappy, and I mean to be a gypsy. I'll live with you if you like, and I can teach you a great many things
Such a clever little lady
and such a pretty bonnet and frock
I don't want to wear a bonnet
My hair was quite long till yesterday, when I cut it off; but I dare say it will grow again very soon
Oh, what a nice little lady!-- and rich, I'm sure
Didn't you live in a beautiful house at home
Yes, my home is pretty, and I'm very fond of the river, where we go fishing, but I'm often very unhappy. I should have liked to bring my books with me, but I came away in a hurry, you know. But I can tell you almost everything there is in my books, I've read them so many times, and that will amuse you. And I can tell you something about Geography too,-- that's about the world we live in,-- very useful and interesting. Did you ever hear about Columbus
Is that where you live, my little lady
Oh, no
Columbus was a very wonderful man, who found out half the world, and they put chains on him and treated him very badly, you know; it's in my Catechism of Geography, but perhaps it's rather too long to tell before tea -- _I want my tea so_
Why, she's hungry, poor little lady
Give her some o' the cold victual. You've been walking a good way, I'll be bound, my dear. Where's your home
It's Dorlcote Mill, a good way off
My father is Mr. Tulliver, but we mustn't let him know where I am, else he'll fetch me home again. Where does the queen of the gypsies live
What! do you want to go to her, my little lady
No
I'm only thinking that if she isn't a very good queen you might be glad when she died, and you could choose another. If I was a queen, I'd be a very good queen, and kind to everybody
Here's a bit o' nice victual, then
Thank you
but will you give me some bread-and-butter and tea instead? I don't like bacon
We've got no tea nor butter
Oh, a little bread and treacle would do
We han't got no treacle
This nice little lady's come to live with us; aren't you glad
Ay, very glad
We've got nothing nice for a lady to eat
And she's so hungry, sweet little lady
Here, my dear, try if you can eat a bit o' this
polygamy
polysyllable
What! you don't like the smell of it, my dear
Try a bit, come
No, thank you
I haven't time, I think; it seems getting darker. I think I must go home now, and come again another day, and then I can bring you a basket with some jam-tarts and things
Stop a bit, stop a bit, little lady; we'll take you home, all safe, when we've done supper; you shall ride home, like a lady
Now, then, little missis
tell us where you live; what's the name o' the place
Dorlcote Mill is my home
My father is Mr. Tulliver; he lives there
What! a big mill a little way this side o' St. Ogg's
Yes
Is it far off? I think I should like to walk there, if you please
No, no, it'll be getting dark, we must make haste. And the donkey'll carry you as nice as can be; you'll see
Here's your pretty bonnet
and you'll say we've been very good to you, won't you? and what a nice little lady we said you was
Oh yes, thank you
I'm very much obliged to you. But I wish you'd go with me too
Ah, you're fondest o' _me_, aren't you
But I can't go; you'll go too fast for me
Good-by
To St. Ogg's, 2 miles
Oh, stop, stop
There's my father! Oh, father, father
Why, what's the meaning o' this
The little miss lost herself, I reckon
She'd come to our tent at the far end o' Dunlow Lane, and I was bringing her where she said her home was. It's a good way to come after being on the tramp all day
Oh yes, father, he's been very good to bring me home
a very kind, good man
Here, then, my man
It's the best day's work _you_ ever did. I couldn't afford to lose the little wench; here, lift her up before me
Why, Maggie, how's this, how's this
How came you to be rambling about and lose yourself
Oh, father
I ran away because I was so unhappy; Tom was so angry with me. I couldn't bear it
Pooh, pooh
you mustn't think o' running away from father. What 'ud father do without his little wench
Oh no, I never will again, father -- never
familiar with forgotten years
Ogg the son of Beorl
was a boatman who gained a scanty living by ferrying passengers across the river Floss. And it came to pass, one evening when the winds were high, that there sat moaning by the brink of the river a woman with a child in her arms; and she was clad in rags, and had a worn and withered look, and she craved to be rowed across the river. And the men thereabout questioned her, and said, 'Wherefore dost thou desire to cross the river? Tarry till the morning, and take shelter here for the night; so shalt thou be wise and not foolish.' Still she went on to mourn and crave. But Ogg the son of Beorl came up and said, 'I will ferry thee across; it is enough that thy heart needs it.' And he ferried her across. And it came to pass, when she stepped ashore, that her rags were turned into robes of flowing white, and her face became bright with exceeding beauty, and there was a glory around it, so that she shed a light on the water like the moon in its brightness. And she said, 'Ogg, the son of Beorl, thou art blessed in that thou didst not question and wrangle with the heart's need, but wast smitten with pity, and didst straightway relieve the same. And from henceforth whoso steps into thy boat shall be in no peril from the storm; and whenever it puts forth to the rescue, it shall save the lives both of men and beasts.' And when the floods came, many were saved by reason of that blessing on the boat. But when Ogg the son of Beorl died, behold, in the parting of his soul, the boat loosed itself from its moorings, and was floated with the ebbing tide in great swiftness to the ocean, and was seen no more. Yet it was witnessed in the floods of aftertime, that at the coming on of eventide, Ogg the son of Beorl was always seen with his boat upon the wide-spreading waters, and the Blessed Virgin sat in the prow, shedding a light around as of the moon in its brightness, so that the rowers in the gathering darkness took heart and pulled anew
them flowers and vegetables
near
charity
race
slept upon it
cut off with a shilling
Well, Mr. Glegg! it's a poor return I get for making you the wife I've made you all these years. If this is the way I'm to be treated, I'd better ha' known it before my poor father died, and then, when I'd wanted a home, I should ha' gone elsewhere, as the choice was offered me
Why, Mrs. G., what have I done now
Done now, Mr. Glegg? _done now?_ -- I'm sorry for you
There's husbands in the world
as 'ud have known how to do something different to siding with everybody else against their own wives. Perhaps I'm wrong and you can teach me better. But I've allays heard as it's the husband's place to stand by the wife, instead o' rejoicing and triumphing when folks insult her
Now, what call have you to say that
When did I rejoice or triumph over you
There's ways o' doing things worse than speaking out plain, Mr. Glegg. I'd sooner you'd tell me to my face as you make light of me, than try to make out as everybody's in the right but me, and come to your breakfast in the morning, as I've hardly slept an hour this night, and sulk at me as if I was the dirt under your feet
Sulk at you
You're like a tipsy man as thinks everybody's had too much but himself
Don't lower yourself with using coarse language to _me_, Mr. Glegg! It makes you look very small, though you can't see yourself
A man in your place should set an example, and talk more sensible
Yes; but will you listen to sense
The best sense I can talk to you is what I said last night,-- as you're i' the wrong to think o' calling in your money, when it's safe enough if you'd let it alone, all because of a bit of a tiff, and I was in hopes you'd ha' altered your mind this morning. But if you'd like to call it in, don't do it in a hurry now, and breed more enmity in the family, but wait till there's a pretty mortgage to be had without any trouble. You'd have to set the lawyer to work now to find an investment, and make no end o' expense
I'll thank you for my cup o' tea, now, Mrs. G
I'm glad to hear you'll _thank_ me, Mr. Glegg. It's little thanks _I_ get for what I do for folks i' this world. Though there's never a woman o' _your_ side o' the family, Mr. Glegg, as is fit to stand up with me, and I'd say it if I was on my dying bed. Not but what I've allays conducted myself civil to your kin, and there isn't one of 'em can say the contrary, though my equils they aren't, and nobody shall make me say it
You'd better leave finding fault wi' my kin till you've left off quarrelling with you own, Mrs. G
I'll trouble you for the milk-jug
That's as false a word as ever you spoke, Mr. Glegg
And you know it's false. I'm not the woman to quarrel with my own kin; _you_ may, for I've known you to do it
Why, what did you call it yesterday, then, leaving your sister's house in a tantrum
I'd no quarrel wi' my sister, Mr. Glegg, and it's false to say it. Mr. Tulliver's none o' my blood, and it was him quarrelled with me, and drove me out o' the house. But perhaps you'd have had me stay and be swore at, Mr. Glegg; perhaps you was vexed not to hear more abuse and foul language poured out upo' your own wife. But, let me tell you, it's _your_ disgrace
Did ever anybody hear the like i' this parish
A woman, with everything provided for her, and allowed to keep her own money the same as if it was settled on her, and with a gig new stuffed and lined at no end o' expense, and provided for when I die beyond anything she could expect -- to go on i' this way, biting and snapping like a mad dog! It's beyond everything, as God A 'mighty should ha' made women _so_
Well, Mr. Glegg, if those are your feelings, it's best they should be known
But if you talk o' my being provided for beyond what I could expect, I beg leave to tell you as I'd a right to expect a many things as I don't find. And as to my being like a mad dog, it's well if you're not cried shame on by the county for your treatment of me, for it's what I can't bear, and I won't bear
Sally
light a fire up-stairs, and put the blinds down. Mr. Glegg, you'll please to order what you'd like for dinner. I shall have gruel
Saints' Everlasting Rest
widow well left
Ah! then, there'll be a good business for somebody to take to
It's not to be expected, I suppose
as I shall go to the mill again before Bessy comes to see me, or as I shall go and fall down o' my knees to Mr. Tulliver, and ask his pardon for showing him favors; but I shall bear no malice, and when Mr. Tulliver speaks civil to me, I'll speak civil to him. Nobody has any call to tell me what's becoming
Then I may call and tell Bessy you'll bear no malice, and everything be as it was before
Yes, you may, Sophy
you may tell Mr. Tulliver, and Bessy too, as I'm not going to behave ill because folks behave ill to me; I know it's my place, as the eldest, to set an example in every respect, and I do it. Nobody can say different of me, if they'll keep to the truth
Bessy must bear the consequence o' having such a husband, though I'm sorry for her
Oh my! Maggie, aunt Glegg's beginning to come again; I'm glad I'm going to school. _You'll_ catch it all now
It must be no client of Wakem's
Now, Tulliver! which would you rather decline, roast-beef or the Latin for it
Roast-beef
a silly
You want your son to be a man who will make his way in the world
They must be very well off, though
for everything's as nice as can be all over the house, and that watered silk she had on cost a pretty penny. Sister Pullet has got one like it
Ah
he's got some income besides the curacy, I reckon. Perhaps her father allows 'em something. There's Tom 'ull be another hundred to him, and not much trouble either, by his own account; he says teaching comes natural to him. That's wonderful, now
You feel no interest in what you're doing, sir
beastly stuff
the masses
and please to make me always remember my Latin
And make Mr. Stelling say I sha'n't do Euclid any more. Amen
Hoigh
as kind a little soul as ever breathed
duty
Well, my lad
you look rarely! School agrees with you
I don't think I _am_ well, father
I wish you'd ask Mr. Stelling not to let me do Euclid; it brings on the toothache, I think
Euclid, my lad,-- why, what's that
Oh, I don't know; it's definitions, and axioms, and triangles, and things. It's a book I've got to learn in -- there's no sense in it
Go, go
you mustn't say so. You must learn what your master tells you. He knows what it's right for you to learn
_I'll_ help you now, Tom
I'm come to stay ever so long, if Mrs. Stelling asks me. I've brought my box and my pinafores, haven't I, father
_You_ help me, you silly little thing
I should like to see you doing one of _my_ lessons! Why, I learn Latin too! Girls never learn such things. They're too silly
I know what Latin is very well
Latin's a language. There are Latin words in the Dictionary. There's bonus, a gift
Now, you're just wrong there, Miss Maggie
You think you're very wise! But 'bonus' means 'good,' as it happens,-- bonus, bona, bonum
Well, that's no reason why it shouldn't mean 'gift
It may mean several things; almost every word does. There's 'lawn,' -- it means the grass-plot, as well as the stuff pocket- handkerchiefs are made of
Well done, little 'un
Now, then, come with me into the study, Maggie
What do you shake and toss your head now for, you silly
It makes you look as if you were crazy
Oh, I can't help it
Don't tease me, Tom. Oh, what books
How I should like to have as many books as that
Why, you couldn't read one of 'em
They're all Latin
No, they aren't
I can read the back of this,--'History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire
Well, what does that mean? _You_ don't know
But I could soon find out
Why, how
I should look inside, and see what it was about
You'd better not, Miss Maggie
Mr. Stelling lets nobody touch his books without leave, and _I_ shall catch it, if you take it out
Oh, very well. Let me see all _your_ books, then
Oh, I say, Maggie
we must keep quiet here, you know. If we break anything Mrs. Stelling'll make us cry peccavi
What's that
Oh, it's the Latin for a good scolding
Is she a cross woman
I believe you
I think all women are crosser than men
Aunt Glegg's a great deal crosser than uncle Glegg, and mother scolds me more than father does
Well, _you'll_ be a woman some day
so _you_ needn't talk
But I shall be a _clever_ woman
Oh, I dare say, and a nasty conceited thing. Everybody'll hate you
But you oughtn't to hate me, Tom; it'll be very wicked of you, for I shall be your sister
Yes, but if you're a nasty disagreeable thing I _shall_ hate you
Oh, but, Tom, you won't! I sha'n't be disagreeable. I shall be very good to you, and I shall be good to everybody. You won't hate me really, will you, Tom
Oh, bother! never mind! Come, it's time for me to learn my lessons. See here! what I've got to do
It's nonsense
and very ugly stuff; nobody need want to make it out
Ah, there, now, Miss Maggie
You see you're not so clever as you thought you were
Oh
I dare say I could make it out, if I'd learned what goes before, as you have
But that's what you just couldn't, Miss Wisdom
For it's all the harder when you know what goes before; for then you've got to say what definition 3 is, and what axiom V. is. But get along with you now; I must go on with this. Here's the Latin Grammar. See what you can make of that
thick grove penetrable by no star
Now, then, Magsie, give us the Grammar
Oh, Tom, it's such a pretty book
it's much prettier than the Dictionary. I could learn Latin very soon. I don't think it's at all hard
Oh, I know what you've been doing
you've been reading the English at the end. Any donkey can do that
Here, Magsie, come and hear if I can say this. Stand at that end of the table, where Mr. Stelling sits when he hears me
Where do you begin, Tom
Oh, I begin at _'Appellativa arborum,'_ because I say all over again what I've been learning this week
Don't tell me, Maggie; _Sunt etiam volucrum_ -- _Sunt etiam volucrum_ -- _ut ostrea, cetus_
No
_Sunt etiam volucrum_
C, e, u
Oh, I know -- hold your tongue
_Ceu passer, hirundo; Ferarum_ -- _ferarum_
_ferarum_
Oh dear, oh dear, Tom
what a time you are! _Ut_
_Ut ostrea_
No, no
_ut tigris_
Oh yes, now I can do
it was _tigris, vulpes_, I'd forgotten: _ut tigris, volupes; et Piscium_
Now, then
the next is what I've just learned for to-morrow. Give me hold of the book a minute
_Mascula nomina in a_
No, Tom
that doesn't come next. It's _Nomen non creskens genittivo_
_Creskens genittivo
_Creskens genittivo!_ What a little silly you are, Maggie
Well, you needn't laugh, Tom, for you didn't remember it at all. I'm sure it's spelt so; how was I to know
Phee-e-e-h! I told you girls couldn't learn Latin. It's _Nomen non crescens genitivo_
Very well, then
Oh, well, don't chatter. Let me go on
What a very odd little girl that must be
I suppose it's all astronomers; because, you know, they live up in high towers, and if the women came there they might talk and hinder them from looking at the stars
I'm sure you couldn't do it, now
and I'll just ask Mr. Stelling if you could
I don't mind
I'll ask him myself
Mr. Stelling
couldn't I do Euclid, and all Tom's lessons, if you were to teach me instead of him
No, you couldn't
Girls can't do Euclid; can they, sir
They can pick up a little of everything, I dare say
They've a great deal of superficial cleverness; but they couldn't go far into anything. They're quick and shallow
Ha, ha! Miss Maggie
you see it's not such a fine thing to be quick. You'll never go far into anything, you know
I would not buy it for a farthing or a rotten nut
natur' o' mills
Why, Pivart's a new name hereabout, brother, isn't it
he didn't own the land in father's time, nor yours either, before I was married
New name? Yes, I should think it _is_ a new name
Dorlcote Mill's been in our family a hundred year and better, and nobody ever heard of a Pivart meddling with the river, till this fellow came and bought Bincome's farm out of hand, before anybody else could so much as say 'snap.' But I'll _Pivart_ him
You won't be forced to go to law with him, I hope, brother
I don't know what I shall be forced to; but I know what I shall force _him_ to, with his dikes and erigations, if there's any law to be brought to bear o' the right side. I know well enough who's at the bottom of it; he's got Wakem to back him and egg him on. I know Wakem tells him the law can't touch him for it, but there's folks can handle the law besides Wakem. It takes a big raskil to beat him; but there's bigger to be found, as know more o' th' ins and outs o' the law, else how came Wakem to lose Brumley's suit for him
Gore's no fool; you needn't tell me that
but, you see, he isn't up to the law as Wakem is. And water's a very particular thing; you can't pick it up with a pitchfork. That's why it's been nuts to Old Harry and the lawyers. It's plain enough what's the rights and the wrongs of water, if you look at it straight-forrard; for a river's a river, and if you've got a mill, you must have water to turn it; and it's no use telling me Pivart's erigation and nonsense won't stop my wheel; I know what belongs to water better than that. Talk to me o' what th' engineers say! I say it's common sense, as Pivart's dikes must do me an injury. But if that's their engineering, I'll put Tom to it by-and-by, and he shall see if he can't find a bit more sense in th' engineering business than what _that_ comes to
I'm sorry to see brother so put out about this water work
It's your brother's way, Mrs. Moss; I'd never anything o' that sort before I was married
I hope and pray he won't go to law
for there's never any knowing where that'll end. And the right doesn't allays win. This Mr. Pivart's a rich man, by what I can make out, and the rich mostly get things their own way
As to that
I've seen what riches are in my own family; for my sisters have got husbands as can afford to do pretty much what they like. But I think sometimes I shall be drove off my head with the talk about this law and erigation; and my sisters lay all the fault to me, for they don't know what it is to marry a man like your brother; how should they? Sister Pullet has her own way from morning till night
Well
I don't think I should like my husband if he hadn't got any wits of his own, and I had to find head-piece for him. It's a deal easier to do what pleases one's husband, than to be puzzling what else one should do
If people come to talk o' doing what pleases their husbands
I'm sure your brother might have waited a long while before he'd have found a wife that 'ud have let him have his say in everything, as I do. It's nothing but law and erigation now, from when we first get up in the morning till we go to bed at night; and I never contradict him; I only say, 'Well, Mr. Tulliver, do as you like; but whativer you do, don't go to law
law
Father
uncle Glegg says Lawyer Wakem _is_ going to send his son to Mr. Stelling. It isn't true, what they said about his going to be sent to France. You won't like me to go to school with Wakem's son, shall you
It's no matter for that, my boy
don't you learn anything bad of him, that's all. The lad's a poor deformed creatur, and takes after his mother in the face; I think there isn't much of his father in him. It's a sign Wakem thinks high o' Mr. Sterling, as he sends his son to him, and Wakem knows meal from bran
Well, Tulliver, we're glad to see you again
Take off your wrappings and come into the study till dinner. You'll find a bright fire there, and a new companion
Here is a new companion for you to shake hands with, Tulliver
Master Philip Wakem. I shall leave you to make acquaintance by yourselves. You already know something of each other, I imagine; for you are neighbors at home
How do you do
Why, that's a donkey with panniers, and a spaniel, and partridges in the corn
Oh my buttons! I wish I could draw like that. I'm to learn drawing this half; I wonder if I shall learn to make dogs and donkeys
Oh, you can do them without learning
I never learned drawing
Never learned
Why, when I make dogs and horses, and those things, the heads and the legs won't come right; though I can see how they ought to be very well. I can make houses, and all sorts of chimneys,-- chimneys going all down the wall,-- and windows in the roof, and all that. But I dare say I could do dogs and horses if I was to try more
knock under
Oh, yes
it's very easy. You've only to look well at things, and draw them over and over again. What you do wrong once, you can alter the next time
But haven't you been taught _any_thing
I thought you'd been to school a long while
Yes
I've been taught Latin and Greek and mathematics, and writing and such things
Oh, but I say, you don't like Latin, though, do you
Pretty well; I don't care much about it
Ah, but perhaps you haven't got into the _Propria quae maribus_
that was the test; it was easy talking till you came to _that_
I've done with the grammar; I don't learn that any more
Then you won't have the same lessons as I shall
No; but I dare say I can help you. I shall be very glad to help you if I can
Thank you
I say
do you love your father
Yes
don't you love yours
Oh yes -- I only wanted to know
Shall you learn drawing now
No
My father wishes me to give all my time to other things now
What! Latin and Euclid, and those things
Yes
And you don't mind that
No; I like to know what everybody else knows. I can study what I like by-and-by
I can't think why anybody should learn Latin
It's no good
It's part of the education of a gentleman
All gentlemen learn the same things
What! do you think Sir John Crake, the master of the harriers, knows Latin
He learned it when he was a boy, of course
But I dare say he's forgotten it
Oh, well, I can do that, then
Only you're obliged to remember it while you're at school, else you've got to learn ever so many lines of 'Speaker.' Mr. Stelling's very particular -- did you know? He'll have you up ten times if you say 'nam' for 'jam,'-- he won't let you go a letter wrong, _I_ can tell you
Oh, I don't mind
I can remember things easily. And there are some lessons I'm very fond of. I'm very fond of Greek history, and everything about the Greeks. I should like to have been a Greek and fought the Persians, and then have come home and have written tragedies, or else have been listened to by everybody for my wisdom, like Socrates, and have died a grand death
Why, were the Greeks great fighters
Is there anything like David and Goliath and Samson in the Greek history? Those are the only bits I like in the history of the Jews
Oh, there are very fine stories of that sort about the Greeks,-- about the heroes of early times who killed the wild beasts, as Samson did. And in the Odyssey -- that's a beautiful poem -- there's a more wonderful giant than Goliath,-- Polypheme, who had only one eye in the middle of his forehead; and Ulysses, a little fellow, but very wise and cunning, got a red-hot pine-tree and stuck it into this one eye, and made him roar like a thousand bulls
Oh, what fun
I say, can you tell me all about those stories? Because I sha'n't learn Greek, you know. Shall I
Does every gentleman learn Greek? Will Mr. Stelling make me begin with it, do you think
No, I should think not, very likely not
But you may read those stories without knowing Greek. I've got them in English
Oh, but I don't like reading; I'd sooner have you tell them me. But only the fighting ones, you know. My sister Maggie is always wanting to tell me stories, but they're stupid things. Girls' stories always are. Can you tell a good many fighting stories
Oh yes
lots of them, besides the Greek stories. I can tell you about Richard Coeur-de-Lion and Saladin, and about William Wallace and Robert Bruce and James Douglas,-- I know no end
You're older than I am, aren't you
Why, how old are _you?_ I'm fifteen
I'm only going in fourteen
But I thrashed all the fellows at Jacob's -- that's where I was before I came here. And I beat 'em all at bandy and climbing. And I wish Mr. Stelling would let us go fishing. _I_ could show you how to fish. You _could_ fish, couldn't you? It's only standing, and sitting still, you know
I can't bear fishing. I think people look like fools sitting watching a line hour after hour, or else throwing and throwing, and catching nothing
Ah, but you wouldn't say they looked like fools when they landed a big pike, I can tell you
rascal
broad generality
And General Wolfe, Mr. Poulter,-- wasn't he a wonderful fighter
Not at all
Nothing o' the sort! Heads up
No, no
they'd better not talk to me about General Wolfe. He did nothing but die of his wound; that's a poor haction, I consider. Any other man 'ud have died o' the wounds I've had. One of my sword-cuts 'ud ha' killed a fellow like General Wolfe
Mr. Poulter
I wish you'd bring your sword and do the sword-exercise
And this is the real sword you fought with in all the battles, Mr. Poulter
Has it ever cut a Frenchman's head off
Head off? Ah! and would, if he'd had three heads
But you had a gun and bayonet besides
_I_ should like the gun and bayonet best, because you could shoot 'em first and spear 'em after. Bang! Ps-s-s-s
Ah, but the sword's the thing when you come to close fighting
Oh, but, Mr. Poulter, if you're going to do the exercise
let me go and call Philip. He'll like to see you, you know
What! the humpbacked lad
what's the use of _his_ looking on
Oh, but he knows a great deal about fighting
and how they used to fight with bows and arrows, and battle-axes
Let him come, then. I'll show him something different from his bows and arrows
Come, Philip
don't stay roaring 'la la' there; come and see old Poulter do his sword-exercise in the carriage-house
Get away, you lumbering idiot! Don't come bellowing at me; you're not fit to speak to anything but a cart-horse
I'm fit to speak to something better than you, you poor-spirited imp
You know I won't hit you, because you're no better than a girl. But I'm an honest man's son, and _your_ father's a rogue; everybody says so
What's the matter, Wakem? what was that noise about? Who slammed the door
It was Tulliver who came in -- to ask me to go out with him
And what are you in trouble about
My toothache came on, and made me hysterical again
Mr. Poulter
I wish you'd lend me your sword a little while to keep
No no, young gentleman
you might do yourself some mischief with it
No, I'm sure I wouldn't; I'm sure I'd take care and not hurt myself. I shouldn't take it out of the sheath much, but I could ground arms with it, and all that
No, no, it won't do, I tell you; it won't do
What 'ud Mr. Stelling say to me
Oh, I say, do, Mr. Poulter! I'd give you my five-shilling piece if you'd let me keep the sword a week. Look here
Well
you must keep it out of sight, you know
Oh yes, I'll keep it under the bed
or else at the bottom of my large box
And let me see, now, whether you can draw it out of the sheath without hurting yourself
Well, now, Master Tulliver, if I take the crown-piece, it is to make sure as you'll do no mischief with the sword
Oh no, indeed, Mr. Poulter
But if Mr. Stelling catches you carrying it in
Oh, he always keeps in his upstairs study on Saturday afternoon
public
I think Philip Wakem seems a nice boy, Tom
He couldn't choose his father, you know; and I've read of very bad men who had good sons, as well as good parents who had bad children. And if Philip is good, I think we ought to be the more sorry for him because his father is not a good man. _You_ like him, don't you
Oh, he's a queer fellow
and he's as sulky as can be with me, because I told him his father was a rogue. And I'd a right to tell him so, for it was true; and _he_ began it, with calling me names. But you stop here by yourself a bit, Maggie, will you? I've got something I want to do upstairs
Can't I go too
No, it's something I'll tell you about by-and-by, not yet
I say, Magsie
I've done my lessons now. Come upstairs with me
What is it
It isn't a trick you're going to play me, now
No, no, Maggie
It's something you'll like _ever so_
I say, Magsie, you must not tell anybody, you know
else I shall get fifty lines
Is it alive
Oh, I sha'n't tell you
Now you go into that corner and hide your face, while I reach it out
Oh, but if you frighten me, I shall
You won't be frightened, you silly thing
Go and hide your face, and mind you don't peep
Of course I sha'n't peep
Now then, Magsie
Oh, Tom, you've made yourself like Bluebeard at the show
Oh, Tom, please don't
I _shall_ scream -- I'm sure I shall! Oh, don't I wish I'd never come upstairs
I'm the Duke of Wellington! March
Tom, I _will not_ bear it, I _will_ scream
You'll hurt yourself; you'll cut your head off
One -- two
Shall I be lame, Sir
I beg your pardon, sir,-- but does Mr. Askern say Tulliver will be lame
Oh, no; oh, no
not permanently; only for a little while
Did he tell Tulliver so, sir, do you think
No; nothing was said to him on the subject
Then may I go and tell him, sir
Yes, to be sure; now you mention it, I dare say he may be troubling about that. Go to his bedroom, but be very quiet at present
Mr. Askern says you'll soon be all right again, Tulliver, did you know
I've just been to ask Mr. Stelling, and he says you'll walk as well as ever again by-and-day
Don't be a little silly, Magsie
I shall soon get well
Good-by, Tulliver
I say
ask Mr. Stelling to let you come and sit with me sometimes, till I get up again, Wakem; and tell me about Robert Bruce, you know
I didn't roar out a bit, you know
and I dare say my foot was as bad as his. It's cowardly to roar
What are you reading about in Greek
It's poetry, I can see that, because the lines are so short
It's about Philoctetes, the lame man I was telling you of yesterday
Maggie
if you had had a brother like me, do you think you should have loved him as well as Tom
What
Oh, yes, better
No, not better; because I don't think I _could_ love you better than Tom. But I should be so sorry,-- _so sorry_ for you
But you are so very clever, Philip, and you can play and sing
I wish you _were_ my brother. I'm very fond of you. And you would stay at home with me when Tom went out, and you would teach me everything; wouldn't you,-- Greek and everything
But you'll go away soon, and go to school, Maggie
and then you'll forget all about me, and not care for me any more. And then I shall see you when you're grown up, and you'll hardly take any notice of me
Oh, no, I sha'n't forget you, I'm sure
I never forget anything, and I think about everybody when I'm away from them. I think about poor Yap; he's got a lump in his throat, and Luke says he'll die. Only don't you tell Tom. because it will vex him so. You never saw Yap; he's a queer little dog,-- nobody cares about him but Tom and me
Do you care as much about me as you do about Yap, Maggie
Oh, yes, I should think so
I'm very fond of _you_, Maggie; I shall never forget _you_
and when I'm very unhappy, I shall always think of you, and wish I had a sister with dark eyes, just like yours
Why do you like my eyes
I don't know
They're not like any other eyes. They seem trying to speak,-- trying to speak kindly. I don't like other people to look at me much, but I like you to look at me, Maggie
Why, I think you're fonder of me than Tom is
Should you like me to kiss you, as I do Tom? I will, if you like
Yes, very much; nobody kisses me
There now
I shall always remember you, and kiss you when I see you again, if it's ever so long. But I'll go now, because I think Mr. Askern's done with Tom's foot
Oh, father, Philip Wakem is so very good to Tom; he is such a clever boy, and I _do_ love him. And you love him too, Tom, don't you? _Say_ you love him
I sha'n't be friends with him when I leave school, father; but we've made it up now, since my foot has been bad, and he's taught me to play at draughts, and I can beat him
Well, well
if he's good to you, try and make him amends, and be good to _him_. He's a poor crooked creature, and takes after his dead mother. But don't you be getting too thick with him; he's got his father's blood in him too. Ay, ay, the gray colt may chance to kick like his black sire
Well, it isn't my fault; _I_ don't do anything to him
Have as little to do with him at school as you can, my lad
Why, how is it you're come so early this cold morning, Maggie? Did you come in the gig
No, I came by the coach. I've walked from the turnpike
But how is it you're not at school? The holidays have not begun yet
Father wanted me at home
I came home three or four days ago
Isn't my father well
Not quite
He's very unhappy, Tom. The lawsuit is ended, and I came to tell you because I thought it would be better for you to know it before you came home, and I didn't like only to send you a letter
My father hasn't lost
Yes, dear Tom
My father will have to pay a good deal of money, then
Yes
Well, it can't be helped
But my father's very much vexed, I dare say
Yes
Oh, Tom, he will lose the mill and the land and everything; he will have nothing left
Oh, Tom -- dear, dear Tom, don't fret too much; try and bear it well
I shall go home, with you, Maggie. Didn't my father say I was to go
No, Tom, father didn't wish it
But mother wants you to come,-- poor mother!-- she cries so. Oh, Tom, it's very dreadful at home
And -- and -- poor father
Where's my father
_Tell_ me, Maggie
He's at home
But
not himself -- he fell off his horse. He has known nobody but me ever since -- he seems to have lost his senses. O father, father
We must set out, Tom, we must not stay. Father will miss me; we must be at the turnpike at ten to meet the coach
Wait a minute, Maggie
I must speak to Mr. Stelling, and then we'll go
Please, sir, I must go home
I must go back with my sister directly. My father's lost his lawsuit -- he's lost all his property -- and he's very ill
Do remember to eat something on the way, dear
God bless you, my boy; let me know how you get on
Oh
a letter
The little wench
little wench
Oh, mother, what is the matter
Don't alarm yourself too much, my dear
Your father has had a sudden attack, and has not quite recovered his memory. But he has been asking for you, and it will do him good to see you. Keep as quiet as you can; take off your things, and come upstairs with me
My poor lad -- it's nothing but right he should come home
Let me go for him, and tell him, mother; I'll go to-morrow morning if father doesn't know me and want me. It would be so hard for Tom to come home and not know anything about it beforehand
They say Mr. Wakem has got a mortgage or something on the land, Tom
It was the letter with that news in it that made father ill, they think
I believe that scoundrel's been planning all along to ruin my father
I'll make him feel for it when I'm a man. Mind you never speak to Philip again
Oh, Tom
have the bailiff in the house
to be sold up
failing
How do you do, sir
Who can it be, Tom? What is the matter
Where's my mother
Father is lying quiet; let us go and look for my mother. I wonder where she is
Mother
Elizabeth Dodson
Oh, my boy, my boy
To think as I should live to see this day! We're ruined -- everything's going to be sold up -- to think as your father should ha' married me to bring me to this! We've got nothing -- we shall be beggars -- we must go to the workhouse
workhouse
To think o' these cloths as I spun myself
and Job Haxey wove 'em, and brought the piece home on his back, as I remember standing at the door and seeing him come, before I ever thought o' marrying your father! And the pattern as I chose myself, and bleached so beautiful, and I marked 'em so as nobody ever saw such marking,-- they must cut the cloth to get it out, for it's a particular stitch. And they're all to be sold, and go into strange people's houses, and perhaps be cut with the knives, and wore out before I'm dead. You'll never have one of 'em, my boy
and I meant 'em for you. I wanted you to have all o' this pattern. Maggie could have had the large check -- it never shows so well when the dishes are on it
But will my aunts let them be sold, mother? Do they know about it? They'll never let your linen go, will they? Haven't you sent to them
Yes, I sent Luke directly they'd put the bailies in, and your aunt Pullet's been -- and, oh dear, oh dear, she cries so and says your father's disgraced my family and made it the talk o' the country; and she'll buy the spotted cloths for herself, because she's never had so many as she wanted o' that pattern, and they sha'n't go to strangers, but she's got more checks a'ready nor she can do with
And your uncle Glegg's been too, and he says things must be bought in for us to lie down on, but he must talk to your aunt; and they're all coming to consult. But I know they'll none of 'em take my chany
for they all found fault with 'em when I bought 'em, 'cause o' the small gold sprig all over 'em, between the flowers. But there's none of 'em got better chany, not even your aunt Pullet herself; and I bought it wi' my own money as I'd saved ever since I was turned fifteen; and the silver teapot, too,-- your father never paid for 'em. And to think as he should ha' married me, and brought me to this
And I _did_ say to him times and times, 'Whativer you do, don't go to law,' and what more could I do? I've had to sit by while my own fortin's been spent, and what should ha' been my children's, too. You'll have niver a penny, my boy -- but it isn't your poor mother's fault
Don't fret, mother
I shall soon be able to get money; I'll get a situation of some sort
Bless you, my boy
But I shouldn't ha' minded so much if we could ha' kept the things wi' my name on 'em
Mother, how can you talk so; as if you cared only for things with _your_ name on, and not for what has my father's name too; and to care about anything but dear father himself!-- when he's lying there, and may never speak to us again. Tom, you ought to say so too; you ought not to let any one find fault with my father
like the rest
blameless
Oh, sister, what a world this is
what trouble, oh dear
Yes, sister
this is a changing world, and we don't know to-day what may happen tomorrow. But it's right to be prepared for all things, and if trouble's sent, to remember as it isn't sent without a cause. I'm very sorry for you as a sister, and if the doctor orders jelly for Mr. Tulliver, I hope you'll let me know. I'll send it willingly; for it is but right he should have proper attendance while he's ill
Thank you, Susan
But there's been no talk o' jelly yet
There's a dozen o' cut jelly-glasses upstairs -- I shall never put jelly into 'em no more
Mrs. G., won't you come nearer the fire
You see I've seated myself here, Mr. Glegg
_you_ can roast yourself, if you like
Well
and how's the poor man upstairs
Dr. Turnbull thought him a deal better this morning
he took more notice, and spoke to me; but he's never known Tom yet,-- looks at the poor lad as if he was a stranger, though he said something once about Tom and the pony. The doctor says his memory's gone a long way back, and he doesn't know Tom because he's thinking of him when he was little. Eh dear, eh dear
I doubt it's the water got on his brain
It's much if he ever gets up again; and if he does, he'll most like be childish, as Mr. Carr was, poor man! They fed him with a spoon as if he'd been a babby for three year. He'd quite lost the use of his limbs; but then he'd got a Bath chair, and somebody to draw him; and that's what you won't have, I doubt, Bessy
Sister Pullet
if I understand right, we've come together this morning to advise and consult about what's to be done in this disgrace as has fallen upon the family, and not to talk o' people as don't belong to us. Mr. Carr was none of our blood, nor noways connected with us, as I've ever heared
Sister Glegg
if you've got anything disrespectful to say o' Mr. Carr, I do beg of you as you won't say it to me. _I_ know what he was
his breath was short to that degree as you could hear him two rooms off
Sophy
you _do_ talk o' people's complaints till it's quite undecent. But I say again, as I said before, I didn't come away from home to talk about acquaintances, whether they'd short breath or long. If we aren't come together for one to hear what the other 'ull do to save a sister and her children from the parish, _I_ shall go back. _One_ can't act without the other, I suppose; it isn't to be expected as _I_ should do everything
Well, Jane
I don't see as you've been so very forrard at doing. So far as I know, this is the first time as here you've been, since it's been known as the bailiff's in the house; and I was here yesterday, and looked at all Bessy's linen and things, and I told her I'd buy in the spotted tablecloths. I couldn't speak fairer; for as for the teapot as she doesn't want to go out o' the family, it stands to sense I can't do with two silver teapots, not if it_hadn't _ a straight spout, but the spotted damask I was allays fond on
I wish it could be managed so as my teapot and chany and the best castors needn't be put up for sale
and the sugar-tongs the first things ever I bought
But that can't be helped, you know
If one o' the family chooses to buy 'em in, they can, but one thing must be bid for as well as another
And it isn't to be looked for
as your own family should pay more for things nor they'll fetch. They may go for an old song by auction
Oh dear, oh dear
to think o' my chany being sold i' that way, and I bought it when I was married, just as you did yours, Jane and Sophy; and I know you didn't like mine, because o' the sprig, but I was fond of it; and there's never been a bit broke, for I've washed it myself; and there's the tulips on the cups, and the roses, as anybody might go and look at 'em for pleasure. You wouldn't like _your_ chany to go for an old song and be broke to pieces, though yours has got no color in it, Jane,-- it's all white and fluted, and didn't cost so much as mine. And there's the castors, sister Deane, I can't think but you'd like to have the castors, for I've heard you say they're pretty
Well, I've no objection to buy some of the best things
we can do with extra things in our house
Best things
It drives me past patience to hear you all talking o' best things, and buying in this, that, and the other, such as silver and chany. You must bring your mind to your circumstances, Bessy, and not be thinking o' silver and chany; but whether you shall get so much as a flock-bed to lie on, and a blanket to cover you, and a stool to sit on. You must remember, if you get 'em, it'll be because your friends have bought 'em for you, for you're dependent upon _them_ for everything; for your husband lies there helpless, and hasn't got a penny i' the world to call his own. And it's for your own good I say this, for it's right you should feel what your state is, and what disgrace your husband's brought on your own family, as you've got to look to for everything, and be humble in your mind
I'm sure, sister, I've never asked anybody to do anything, only buy things as it 'ud be a pleasure to 'em to have, so as they mightn't go and be spoiled i' strange houses. I never asked anybody to buy the things in for me and my children; though there's the linen I spun, and I thought when Tom was born,-- I thought one o' the first things when he was lying i' the cradle, as all the things I'd bought wi' my own money, and been so careful of, 'ud go to him. But I've said nothing as I wanted my sisters to pay their money for me. What my husband has done for _his_ sister's unknown, and we should ha' been better off this day if it hadn't been as he's lent money and never asked for it again
Come, come
don't let us make things too dark. What's done can't be undone. We shall make a shift among us to buy what's sufficient for you; though, as Mrs. G. says, they must be useful, plain things. We mustn't be thinking o' what's unnecessary. A table, and a chair or two, and kitchen things, and a good bed, and such-like. Why, I've seen the day when I shouldn't ha' known myself if I'd lain on sackingi's tead o' the floor. We get a deal o' useless things about us, only because we've got the money to spend
Mr. Glegg
if you'll be kind enough to let me speak, i'stead o' taking the words out o' my mouth,-- I was going to say, Bessy, as it's fine talking for you to say as you've never asked us to buy anything for you; let me tell you, you _ought_ to have asked us. Pray, how are you to be purvided for, if your own family don't help you? You must go to the parish, if they didn't. And you ought to know that, and keep it in mind, and ask us humble to do what we can for youi's, tead o' saying, and making a boast, as you've never asked us for anything
You talked o' the Mosses, and what Mr. Tulliver's done for 'em
Haven't _they_ been anear you? They ought to do something as well as other folks; and if he's lent 'em money, they ought to be made to pay it back
Yes, to be sure
I've been thinking so. How is it Mr. and Mrs. Moss aren't here to meet us? It is but right they should do their share
Oh, dear
I never sent 'em word about Mr. Tulliver, and they live so back'ard among the lanes at Basset, they niver hear anything only when Mr. Moss comes to market. But I niver gave 'em a thought. I wonder Maggie didn't, though, for she was allays so fond of her aunt Moss
Why don't your children come in, Bessy
They should hear what their aunts and uncles have got to say; and Maggie,-- when it's me as have paid for half her schooling, she ought to think more of her aunt Pullet than of aunt Moss. I may go off sudden when I get home to-day; there's no telling
If I'd had _my_ way
the children 'ud ha' been in the room from the first. It's time they knew who they've to look to, and it's right as _somebody_ should talk to 'em, and let 'em know their condition i' life, and what they're come down to, and make 'em feel as they've got to suffer for their father's faults
Well, I'll go and fetch 'em, sister
Well, young sir, we've been talking as we should want your pen and ink; you can write rarely now, after all your schooling, I should think
Ay, ay
But he must do it
whether it's hard or no. He hasn't got to consider what's hard; he must consider as he isn't to trusten to his friends to keep him in idleness and luxury; he's got to bear the fruits of his father's misconduct, and bring his mind to fare hard and to work hard. And he must be humble and grateful to his aunts and uncles for what they're doing for his mother and father, as must be turned out into the streets and go to the workhouse if they didn't help 'em. And his sister, too
she must make up her mind to be humble and work; for there'll be no servants to wait on her any more,-- she must remember that. She must do the work o' the house, and she must respect and love her aunts as have done so much for her, and saved their money to leave to their nepheys and nieces
See here, sister
I thought, perhaps, if you looked at the teapot again,-- it's a good while since you saw it,-- you might like the pattern better; it makes beautiful tea, and there's a stand and everything; you might use it for every day, or else lay it by for Lucy when she goes to housekeeping. I should be so loath for 'em to buy it at the Golden Lion
my teapot as I bought when I was married, and to think of its being scratched, and set before the travellers and folks, and my letters on it,-- see here, E. D.,-- and everybody to see 'em
Ah, dear, dear
it's very bad,-- to think o' the family initials going about everywhere -- it niver was so before; you're a very unlucky sister, Bessy. But what's the use o' buying the teapot, when there's the linen and spoons and everything to go, and some of 'em with your full name,-- and when it's got that straight spout, too
As to disgrace o' the family
that can't be helped wi' buying teapots. The disgrace is, for one o' the family to ha' married a man as has brought her to beggary. The disgrace is, as they're to be sold up. We can't hinder the country from knowing that
Be quiet, Maggie
Then, aunt
if you think it's a disgrace to the family that we should be sold up, wouldn't it be better to prevent it altogether? And if you and aunt Pullet
think of leaving any money to me and Maggie, wouldn't it be better to give it now, and pay the debt we're going to be sold up for, and save my mother from parting with her furniture
Ay, ay, young man, come now! You show some notion o' things. But there's the interest, you must remember; your aunts get five per cent on their money, and they'd lose that if they advanced it; you haven't thought o' that
I could work and pay that every year
I'd do anything to save my mother from parting with her things
Well done
Yes, Mr. Glegg
It's pleasant work for you to be giving my money away, as you've pretended to leave at my own disposal. And my money, as was my own father's gift, and not yours, Mr. Glegg; and I've saved it, and added to it myself, and had more to put out almost every year, and it's to go and be sunk in other folks' furniture, and encourage 'em in luxury and extravagance as they've no means of supporting; and I'm to alter my will, or have a codicil made, and leave two or three hundred less behind me when I die,-- me as have allays done right and been careful, and the eldest o' the family; and my money's to go and be squandered on them as have had the same chance as me, only they've been wicked and wasteful. Sister Pullet, _you_ may do as you like, and you may let your husband rob you back again o' the money he's given you, but that isn't _my_ sperrit
La, Jane, how fiery you are
I'm sure you'll have the blood in your head, and have to be cupped. I'm sorry for Bessy and her children,-- I'm sure I think of 'em o' nights dreadful, for I sleep very bad wi' this new medicine,-- but it's no use for me to think o' doing anything, if you won't meet me half-way
Why, there's this to be considered
It's no use to pay off this debt and save the furniture, when there's all the law debts behind, as 'ud take every shilling, and more than could be made out o' land and stock, for I've made that out from Lawyer Gore. We'd need save our money to keep the poor man with, instead o' spending it on furniture as he can neither eat nor drink. You _will_ be so hasty, Jane, as if I didn't know what was reasonable
Then speak accordingly, Mr. Glegg
Why do you come, then
talking and interfering with us and scolding us, if you don't mean to do anything to help my poor mother -- your own sister,-- if you've no feeling for her when she's in trouble, and won't part with anything, though you would never miss it, to save her from pain? Keep away from us then, and don't come to find fault with my father,-- he was better than any of you; he was kind,-- he would have helped _you_, if you had been in trouble. Tom and I don't ever want to have any of your money, if you won't help my mother. We'd rather not have it! We'll do without you
You haven't seen the end o' your trouble wi' that child, Bessy
she's beyond everything for boldness and unthankfulness. It's dreadful. I might ha' let alone paying for her schooling, for she's worse nor ever
It's no more than what I've allays said
Other folks may be surprised, but I'm not. I've said over and over again,-- years ago I've said,--'Mark my words; that child 'ull come to no good; there isn't a bit of our family in her.' And as for her having so much schooling, I never thought well o' that. I'd my reasons when I said _I_ wouldn't pay anything toward it
Come, come
let's waste no more time in talking,-- let's go to business. Tom, now, get the pen and ink
Why, there's Mrs. Moss
That's fortunate
She can agree to the list o' things to be bought in. It's but right she should do her share when it's her own brother
Oh, my dear children
you've no call to think well o' me; I'm a poor aunt to you, for I'm one o' them as take all and give nothing. How's my poor brother
Mr. Turnbull thinks he'll get better
Sit down, aunt Gritty. Don't fret
Oh, my sweet child, I feel torn i' two
We've three hundred pounds o' my brother's money, and now he wants it, and you all want it, poor things!-- and yet we must be sold up to pay it, and there's my poor children,-- eight of 'em, and the little un of all can't speak plain. And I feel as if I was a robber. But I'm sure I'd no thought as my brother
Three hundred pounds! oh dear, dear
What madness, to be sure
A man with a family! He'd no right to lend his money i' that way; and without security, I'll be bound, if the truth was known
Yes, there _was_ security; my husband gave a note for it. We're not that sort o' people, neither of us, as 'ud rob my brother's children; and we looked to paying back the money, when the times got a bit better
Well, but now
hasn't your husband no way o' raising this money? Because it 'ud be a little fortin, like, for these folks, if we can do without Tulliver's being made a bankrupt. Your husband's got stock; it is but right he should raise the money, as it seems to me,-- not but what I'm sorry for you, Mrs. Moss
Oh, sir, you don't know what bad luck my husband's had with his stock. The farm's suffering so as never was for want o' stock; and we've sold all the wheat, and we're behind with our rent,-- not but what we'd like to do what's right, and I'd sit up and work half the night, if it 'ud be any good; but there's them poor children,-- four of 'em such little uns
Don't cry so, aunt; don't fret
Did Mr. Tulliver let you have the money all at once
No; at twice
The last was after my bad illness four years ago, as everything went wrong, and there was a new note made then. What with illness and bad luck, I've been nothing but cumber all my life
Yes, Mrs. Moss
yours is a very unlucky family; the more's the pity for _my_ sister
I set off in the cart as soon as ever I heard o' what had happened
I should never ha' stayed away all this while, if you'd thought well to let me know. And it isn't as I'm thinking all about ourselves, and nothing about my brother, only the money was so on my mind, I couldn't help speaking about it. And my husband and me desire to do the right thing, sir
and we'll make shift and pay the money, come what will, if that's all my brother's got to trust to. We've been used to trouble, and don't look for much else. It's only the thought o' my poor children pulls me i' two
Why, there's this to be thought on, Mrs. Moss
and it's right to warn you,-- if Tulliver's made a bankrupt, and he's got a note-of-hand of your husband's for three hundred pounds, you'll be obliged to pay it; th' assignees 'ull come on you for it
Oh dear, oh dear
And if he isn't made bankrupt
as I said before, three hundred pounds 'ud be a little fortin for him, poor man. We don't know but what he may be partly helpless, if he ever gets up again. I'm very sorry if it goes hard with you, Mrs. Moss, but my opinion is, looking at it one way, it'll be right for you to raise the money; and looking at it th' other way, you'll be obliged to pay it. You won't think ill o' me for speaking the truth
Uncle
I don't think it would be right for my aunt Moss to pay the money if it would be against my father's will for her to pay it; would it
Why, no, perhaps not, Tom; but then he'd ha' destroyed the note, you know. We must look for the note. What makes you think it 'ud be against his will
Why
I remember quite well, before I went to school to Mr. Stelling, my father said to me one night, when we were sitting by the fire together, and no one else was in the room
He said something to me about Maggie, and then he said: 'I've always been good to my sister, though she married against my will, and I've lent Moss money; but I shall never think of distressing him to pay it; I'd rather lose it. My children must not mind being the poorer for that.' And now my father's ill, and not able to speak for himself, I shouldn't like anything to be done contrary to what he said to me
Well, but then, my boy
we should have to make away wi' the note, you know, if we're to guard against what may happen, supposing your father's made bankrupt
Mr. Glegg
mind what you're saying. You're putting yourself very forrard in other folks's business. If you speak rash, don't say it was my fault
That's such a thing as I never heared of before
making away with a note! I should think anybody could set the constable on you for it
Well, but
if the note's worth all that money, why can't we pay it away, and save my things from going away? We've no call to meddle with your uncle and aunt Moss, Tom, if you think your father 'ud be angry when he gets well
Pooh, pooh, pooh! you women don't understand these things
There's no way o' making it safe for Mr. and Mrs. Moss but destroying the note
Then I hope you'll help me do it, uncle
If my father shouldn't get well, I should be very unhappy to think anything had been done against his will that I could hinder. And I'm sure he meant me to remember what he said that evening. I ought to obey my father's wish about his property
You'll never be the poorer for this, my dear boy, if there's a God above; and if the money's wanted for your father, Moss and me 'ull pay it, the same as if there was ever such security. We'll do as we'd be done by; for if my children have got no other luck, they've got an honest father and mother
Well
we shouldn't be doing any wrong by the creditors, supposing your father _was_ bankrupt. I've been thinking o' that, for I've been a creditor myself, and seen no end o' cheating. If he meant to give your aunt the money before ever he got into this sad work o' lawing, it's the same as if he'd made away with the note himself; for he'd made up his mind to be that much poorer. But there's a deal o' things to be considered, young man
when you come to money business, and you may be taking one man's dinner away to make another man's breakfast. You don't understand that, I doubt
Yes, I do
I know if I owe money to one man, I've no right to give it to another. But if my father had made up his mind to give my aunt the money before he was in debt, he had a right to do it
Well done, young man! I didn't think you'd been so sharp
But perhaps your father _did_ make away with the note. Let us go and see if we can find it in the chest
It's in my father's room. Let us go too, aunt Gritty
There's a tin box
he'd most like put a small thing like a note in there. Lift it out, Tom; but I'll just lift up these deeds,-- they're the deeds o' the house and mill, I suppose,-- and see what there is under 'em
What are you going to do with those deeds
Come here, Tom. What do you do, going to my chest
What's been happening, then
What are you meddling with my deeds for? Is Wakem laying hold of everything? Why don't you tell me what you've been a-doing
No, no, friend Tulliver
Nobody's getting hold of anything as yet. We only came to look and see what was in the chest. You've been ill, you know, and we've had to look after things a bit. But let's hope you'll soon be well enough to attend to everything yourself
Eh, Gritty
What! you're there, are you? How could you manage to leave the children
Oh, brother
I'm thankful I'm come now to see you yourself again; I thought you'd never know us any more
What! have I had a stroke
A fall from your horse -- shook you a bit,-- that's all, I think
But you'll soon get over it, let's hope
You got the letter, then, my wench
Yes, father
Where's your mother
She's downstairs with my aunts, father. Shall I fetch her
Ay, ay; poor Bessy
You'll have to take care of 'em both if I die, you know, Tom. You'll be badly off, I doubt. But you must see and pay everybody. And mind,-- there's fifty pound o' Luke's as I put into the business,-- he gave me a bit at a time, and he's got nothing to show for it. You must pay him first thing
Yes, father. And haven't you a note from my uncle Moss for three hundred pounds? We came to look for that. What do you wish to be done about it, father
Ah! I'm glad you thought o' that, my lad
I allays meant to be easy about that money, because o' your aunt. You mustn't mind losing the money, if they can't pay it,-- and it's like enough they can't. The note's in that box, mind! I allays meant to be good to you, Gritty
but you know you aggravated me when you would have Moss
Well, Bessy
you must forgive me if you're worse off than you ever expected to be. But it's the fault o' the law,-- it's none o' mine
It's the fault o' raskills. Tom, you mind this: if ever you've got the chance, you make Wakem smart. If you don't, you're a good-for-nothing son. You might horse-whip him, but he'd set the law on you,-- the law's made to take care o' raskills
They'll make a shift to pay everything, Bessy
and yet leave you your furniture; and your sisters'll do something for you -- and Tom'll grow up -- though what he's to be I don't know -- I've done what I could -- I've given him a eddication -- and there's the little wench, she'll get married -- but it's a poor tale
Why, Master Tom, how's your father this morning
He's still very ill, thank you
Ay, it's been a sore chance for you, young man, hasn't it,-- this lawsuit turning out against him
That's Tulliver's son
Ah
I thought I knew his features. He takes after his mother's family; she was a Dodson. He's a fine, straight youth; what's he been brought up to
Oh! to turn up his nose at his father's customers, and be a fine gentleman,-- not much else, I think
Well, Tom, nothing fresh the matter at home, I hope? How's your father
Much the same, thank you, uncle
But I want to speak to you, please, when you're at liberty
Sit down, sit down
You'll just step up to Torry's now, Mr. Spence, will you
Well, Tom
what's the business, my boy; what's the business
I hope you'll excuse me for troubling you, uncle
but I thought you were the best person to advise me what to do
Ah
let us hear
I want to get a situation, uncle, so that I may earn some money
A situation
Why, let me see, how old are you
Sixteen; I mean, I am going in seventeen
Let me see; your father had some notion of making you an engineer, I think
But I don't think I could get any money at that for a long while, could I
That's true; but people don't get much money at anything, my boy, when they're only sixteen. You've had a good deal of schooling, however; I suppose you're pretty well up in accounts, eh? You understand book keeping
No
I was in Practice. But Mr. Stelling says I write a good hand, uncle. That's my writing
Ah! that's good, that's good. But, you see, the best hand in the world'll not get you a better place than a copying-clerk's, if you know nothing of book-keeping,-- nothing of accounts. And a copying-clerk's a cheap article. But what have you been learning at school, then
We learned Latin
a good deal of Latin; and the last year I did Themes, one week in Latin and one in English; and Greek and Roman history; and Euclid; and I began Algebra, but I left it off again; and we had one day every week for Arithmetic. Then I used to have drawing-lessons; and there were several other books we either read or learned out of,-- English Poetry, and Horae Pauline and Blair's Rhetoric, the last half
Well
you've had three years at these things,-- you must be pretty strong in 'em. Hadn't you better take up some line where they'll come in handy
I'd rather not have any employment of that sort, uncle. I don't like Latin and those things. I don't know what I could do with them unless I went as usher in a school; and I don't know them well enough for that! besides, I would as soon carry a pair of panniers. I don't want to be that sort of person. I should like to enter into some business where I can get on,-- a manly business, where I should have to look after things, and get credit for what I did. And I shall want to keep my mother and sister
Ah, young gentleman
that's sooner said than done,-- sooner said than done
But didn't _you_ get on in that way, uncle
I mean, didn't you rise from one place to another through your abilities and good conduct
Ay, ay, sir
But I'll tell you how I got on. It wasn't by getting astride a stick and thinking it would turn into a horse if I sat on it long enough. I kept my eyes and ears open, sir, and I wasn't too fond of my own back, and I made my master's interest my own. Why, with only looking into what went on in the mill,, I found out how there was a waste of five hundred a-year that might be hindered. Why, sir, I hadn't more schooling to begin with than a charity boy; but I saw pretty soon that I couldn't get on far enough without mastering accounts, and I learned 'em between working hours, after I'd been unlading. Look here
I write a good hand enough, and I'll match anybody at all sorts of reckoning by the head; and I got it all by hard work, and paid for it out of my own earnings,-- often out of my own dinner and supper. And I looked into the nature of all the things we had to do in the business, and picked up knowledge as I went about my work, and turned it over in my head. Why, I'm no mechanic,-- I never pretended to be -- but I've thought of a thing or two that the mechanics never thought of, and it's made a fine difference in our returns. And there isn't an article shipped or unshipped at our wharf but I know the quality of it. If I got places, sir, it was because I made myself fit for 'em. If you want to slip into a round hole, you must make a ball of yourself; that's where it is
Well, uncle
that's what I should like to do. Can't _I_ get on in the same way
In the same way
There go two or three questions to that, Master Tom. That depends on what sort of material you are, to begin with, and whether you've been put into the right mill. But I'll tell you what it is. Your poor father went the wrong way to work in giving you an education. It wasn't my business, and I didn't interfere; but it is as I thought it would be. You've had a sort of learning that's all very well for a young fellow like our Mr. Stephen Guest, who'll have nothing to do but sign checks all his life, and may as well have Latin inside his head as any other sort of stuffing
But, uncle
I don't see why the Latin need hinder me from getting on in business. I shall soon forget it all; it makes no difference to me. I had to do my lessons at school, but I always thought they'd never be of any use to me afterward; I didn't care about them
Ay, ay, that's all very well
but it doesn't alter what I was going to say. Your Latin and rigmarole may soon dry off you, but you'll be but a bare stick after that. Besides, it's whitened your hands and taken the rough work out of you. And what do you know? Why, you know nothing about book-keeping, to begin with, and not so much of reckoning as a common shopman. You'll have to begin at a low round of the ladder, let me tell you, if you mean to get on in life. It's no use forgetting the education your father's been paying for, if you don't give yourself a new un
You want me to help you to a situation
well, I've no fault to find with that. I'm willing to do something for you. But you youngsters nowadays think you're to begin with living well and working easy; you've no notion of running afoot before you get horseback. Now, you must remember what you are,-- you're a lad of sixteen, trained to nothing particular. There's heaps of your sort, like so many pebbles, made to fit in nowhere. Well, you might be apprenticed to some business,-- a chemist's and druggist's perhaps; your Latin might come in a bit there
Stop! hear what I've got to say. You don't want to be a 'prentice,-- I know, I know,-- you want to make more haste, and you don't want to stand behind a counter. But if you're a copying-clerk, you'll have to stand behind a desk, and stare at your ink and paper all day; there isn't much out-look there, and you won't be much wiser at the end of the year than at the beginning. The world isn't made of pen, ink, and paper, and if you're to get on in the world, young man, you must know what the world's made of. Now the best chance for you 'ud be to have a place on a wharf, or in a warehouse, where you'd learn the smell of things, but you wouldn't like that, I'll be bound; you'd have to stand cold and wet, and be shouldered about by rough fellows. You're too fine a gentleman for that
I would rather do what will be best for me in the end, sir; I would put up with what was disagreeable
That's well, if you can carry it out. But you must remember it isn't only laying hold of a rope, you must go on pulling. It's the mistake you lads make that have got nothing either in your brains or your pocket, to think you've got a better start in the world if you stick yourselves in a place where you can keep your coats clean, and have the shopwenches take you for fine gentlemen. That wasn't the way _I_ started, young man; when I was sixteen, my jacket smelt of tar, and I wasn't afraid of handling cheeses. That's the reason I can wear good broadcloth now, and have my legs under the same table with the head of the best firms in St. Ogg's
Is there any place at liberty that you know of now, uncle, that I should do for? I should like to set to work at once
Stop a bit, stop a bit; we mustn't be in too great a hurry. You must bear in mind, if I put you in a place you're a bit young for, because you happen to be my nephew, I shall be responsible for you. And there's no better reason, you know, than your being my nephew; because it remains to be seen whether you're good for anything
I hope I shall never do you any discredit, uncle
I care about my own credit too much for that
Well done, Tom, well done! That's the right spirit, and I never refuse to help anybody if they've a mind to do themselves justice. There's a young man of two-and-twenty I've got my eye on now. I shall do what I can for that young man; he's got some pith in him. But then, you see, he's made good use of his time,-- a first-rate calculator,-- can tell you the cubic contents of anything in no time, and put me up the other day to a new market for Swedish bark; he's uncommonly knowing in manufactures, that young fellow
I'd better set about learning book-keeping, hadn't I, uncle
Yes, yes, you can't do amiss there. But -- Ah, Spence, you're back again. Well Tom, there's nothing more to be said just now, I think, and I must go to business again. Good-by. Remember me to your mother
What did my Uncle Deane say, Tom
Did he say he would give you a situation
No, he didn't say that. He didn't quite promise me anything; he seemed to think I couldn't have a very good situation. I'm too young
But didn't he speak kindly, Tom
Kindly? Pooh! what's the use of talking about that? I wouldn't care about his speaking kindly, if I could get a situation. But it's such a nuisance and bother; I've been at school all this while learning Latin and things,-- not a bit of good to me,-- and now my uncle says I must set about learning book-keeping and calculation, and those things. He seems to make out I'm good for nothing
Oh, what a pity we haven't got Dominie Sampson
If he had taught me book-keeping by double entry and after the Italian method, as he did Lucy Bertram, I could teach you, Tom
_You_ teach! Yes, I dare say. That's always the tone you take
Dear Tom, I was only joking
But it's always the same, Maggie
You're always setting yourself up above me and every one else, and I've wanted to tell you about it several times. You ought not to have spoken as you did to my uncles and aunts; you should leave it to me to take care of my mother and you, and not put yourself forward. You think you know better than any one, but you're almost always wrong. I can judge much better than you can
You often think I'm conceited, Tom, when I don't mean what I say at all in that way. I don't mean to put myself above you; I know you behaved better than I did yesterday. But you are always so harsh to me, Tom
No, I'm not harsh
I'm always kind to you, and so I shall be; I shall always take care of you. But you must mind what I say
folks as came to buy up other folk's things
pipe-smoking pig
Sarvant, Master Tom
You don't know me again, I doubt
but I'd like to talk to you by yourself a bit, please
There's a fire i' the parlor, Master Tom
Come this way, then
Why! you don't remember Bob, then, as you gen the pocket-knife to, Mr. Tom
What! Bob Jakin
Ay, ay, Bob Jakin, if Jakin it must be, 'cause there's so many Bobs as you went arter the squerrils with, that day as I plumped right down from the bough, and bruised my shins a good un -- but I got the squerril tight for all that, an' a scratter it was. An' this littlish blade's broke, you see, but I wouldn't hev a new un put in, 'cause they might be cheatin' me an' givin' me another knife instid, for there isn't such a blade i' the country,-- it's got used to my hand, like. An' there was niver nobody else gen me nothin' but what I got by my own sharpness, only you, Mr. Tom; if it wasn't Bill Fawks as gen me the terrier pup istid o' drowndin't it, an' I had to jaw him a good un afore he'd give it me
Well, Bob
is there anything I can do for you
Why, no, Mr. Tom
I shouldn't ha' come back upon you now ye're i' trouble, an' folks say as the master, as I used to frighten the birds for, an' he flogged me a bit for fun when he catched me eatin' the turnip, as they say he'll niver lift up his head no more,-- I shouldn't ha' come now to ax you to gi' me another knife 'cause you gen me one afore. If a chap gives me one black eye, that's enough for me; I sha'n't ax him for another afore I sarve him out; an' a good turn's worth as much as a bad un, anyhow. I shall niver grow down'ards again, Mr. Tom, an' you war the little chap as I liked the best when _I_ war a little chap, for all you leathered me, and wouldn't look at me again. There's Dick Brumby, there, I could leather him as much as I'd a mind; but lors! you get tired o' leatherin' a chap when you can niver make him see what you want him to shy at. I'n seen chaps as 'ud stand starin' at a bough till their eyes shot out, afore they'd see as a bird's tail warn't a leaf. It's poor work goin' wi' such raff. But you war allays a rare un at shying, Mr. Tom, an' I could trusten to you for droppin' down wi' your stick in the nick o' time at a runnin' rat, or a stoat, or that, when I war a-beatin' the bushes
Oh, Tom
where are the books? I thought my uncle Glegg said he would buy them. Didn't he? Are those all they've left us
I suppose so
Why should they buy many books when they bought so little furniture
Oh, but, Tom
Our dear old Pilgrim's Progress that you colored with your little paints; and that picture of Pilgrim with a mantle on, looking just like a turtle -- oh dear
I thought we should never part with that while we lived; everything is going away from us; the end of our lives will have nothing in it like the beginning
Well, Bob
I suppose you just came to see me because we're in trouble? That was very good-natured of you
I'll tell you how it is, Master Tom
You see, I'n been with a barge this two 'ear; that's how I'n been gettin' my livin',-- if it wasn't when I was tentin' the furnace, between whiles, at Torry's mill. But a fortni't ago I'd a rare bit o' luck,-- I allays thought I was a lucky chap, for I niver set a trap but what I catched something; but this wasn't trap, it was a fire i' Torry's mill, an' I doused it, else it 'ud set th' oil alight, an' the genelman gen me ten suvreigns; he gen me 'em himself last week. An' he said first, I was a sperrited chap,-- but I knowed that afore,-- but then he outs wi' the ten suvreigns, an' that war summat new. Here they are, all but one
An' when I'd got 'em, my head was all of a boil like a kettle o' broth, thinkin' what sort o' life I should take to, for there war a many trades I'd thought on; for as for the barge, I'm clean tired out wi't, for it pulls the days out till they're as long as pigs' chitterlings. An' I thought first I'd ha' ferrets an' dogs, an' be a rat-catcher; an' then I thought as I should like a bigger way o' life, as I didn't know so well; for I'n seen to the bottom o' rat-catching; an' I thought, an' thought, till at last I settled I'd be a packman,-- for they're knowin' fellers, the packmen are,-- an' I'd carry the lightest things I could i' my pack; an' there'd be a use for a feller's tongue, as is no use neither wi' rats nor barges. An' I should go about the country far an' wide, an' come round the women wi' my tongue, an' get my dinner hot at the public,-- lors! it 'ud be a lovely life
But I don't mind about it, not a chip! An' I'n changed one o' the suvreigns to buy my mother a goose for dinner, an' I'n bought a blue plush wescoat, an' a sealskin cap,-- for if I meant to be a packman, I'd do it respectable. But I don't mind about it, not a chip! My yead isn't a turnip, an' I shall p'r'aps have a chance o' dousing another fire afore long. I'm a lucky chap. So I'll thank you to take the nine suvreigns, Mr. Tom, and set yoursen up with 'em somehow, if it's true as the master's broke. They mayn't go fur enough, but they'll help
You're a very kind fellow, Bob
and I sha'n't forget you again, though I didn't know you this evening. But I can't take the nine sovereigns; I should be taking your little fortune from you, and they wouldn't do me much good either
Wouldn't they, Mr. Tom
Now don't say so 'cause you think I want 'em. I aren't a poor chap. My mother gets a good penn'orth wi' picking feathers an' things; an' if she eats nothin' but bread-an'-water, it runs to fat. An' I'm such a lucky chap; an' I doubt you aren't quite so lucky, Mr. Tom,-- th' old master isn't, anyhow,-- an' so you might take a slice o' my luck, an' no harm done. Lors! I found a leg o' pork i' the river one day; it had tumbled out o' one o' them round-sterned Dutchmen, I'll be bound. Come, think better on it, Mr. Tom, for old 'quinetance' sake, else I shall think you bear me a grudge
Oh, I'm so sorry, Bob; I never thought you were so good. Why, I think you're the kindest person in the world
such uncommon eyes, they looked somehow as they made him feel nohow
No, indeed Bob, I can't take them
but don't think I feel your kindness less because I say no. I don't want to take anything from anybody, but to work my own way. And those sovereigns wouldn't help me much -- they wouldn't really -- if I were to take them. Let me shake hands with you instead
Let me put the sovereigns in the bag again
and you'll come and see us when you've bought your pack, Bob
It's like as if I'd come out o' make believe, o' purpose to show 'em you
a-taking 'em back i' this way. I _am_ a bit of a Do, you know; but it isn't that sort o' Do,-- it's on'y when a feller's a big rogue, or a big flat, I like to let him in a bit, that's all
Now, don't you be up to any tricks, Bob
else you'll get transported some day
No, no; not me, Mr. Tom
There's no law again' flea-bites. If I wasn't to take a fool in now and then, he'd niver get any wiser. But, lors! hev a suvreign to buy you and Miss summat, on'y for a token -- just to match my pocket-knife
No, indeed, Bob; thank you heartily, but I can't take it
Not now, but perhaps another time. If ever Tom or my father wants help that you can give, we'll let you know; won't we, Tom? That's what you would like,-- to have us always depend on you as a friend that we can go to,-- isn't it, Bob
Yes, Miss, and thank you
that's what I'd like, anything as you like. An' I wish you good-by, Miss, and good-luck, Mr. Tom, and thank you for shaking hands wi' me, _though_ you wouldn't take the money
got well
if Guest &amp;Co. would only think about it, Mr. Tulliver's father and grandfather had been carrying on Dorlcote Mill long before the oil-mill of that firm had been so much as thought of
lost his property
failed
not more than ten or twelve shillings in the pound
to give him good words
No, no, no
Pooh, pooh
Let Wakem alone
Mrs. Tulliver, I think
Yes, sir; Miss Elizabeth Dodson as was
Pray be seated. You have some business with me
Well, sir, yes
I hope, sir
I hope, sir, you're not a-thinking as _I_ bear you any ill-will because o' my husband's losing his lawsuit, and the bailies being put in, and the linen being sold,-- oh dear!-- for I wasn't brought up in that way. I'm sure you remember my father, sir, for he was close friends with Squire Darleigh, and we allays went to the dances there, the Miss Dodsons,-- nobody could be more looked on,-- and justly, for there was four of us, and you're quite aware as Mrs. Glegg and Mrs. Deane are my sisters. And as for going to law and losing money, and having sales before you're dead, I never saw anything o' that before I was married, nor for a long while after. And I'm not to be answerable for my bad luck i' marrying out o' my own family into one where the goings-on was different. And as for being drawn in t' abuse you as other folks abuse you, sir, _that_ I niver was, and nobody can say it of me
I've no doubt of what you say, Mrs. Tulliver
But you have some question to ask me
Well, sir, yes. But that's what I've said to myself,-- I've said you'd had some nat'ral feeling; and as for my husband, as hasn't been himself for this two months, I'm not a-defending him, in no way, for being so hot about th' erigation,-- not but what there's worse men, for he never wronged nobody of a shilling nor a penny, not willingly; and as for his fieriness and lawing, what could I do? And him struck as if it was with death when he got the letter as said you'd the hold upo' the land. But I can't believe but what you'll behave as a gentleman
What does all this mean, Mrs. Tulliver
What do you want to ask me
Why, sir, if you'll be so good
if you'll be so good not to buy the mill an' the land,-- the land wouldn't so much matter, only my husband ull' be like mad at your having it
Who told you I meant to buy it
Why, sir, it's none o' my inventing, and I should never ha' thought of it; for my husband, as ought to know about the law, he allays used to say as lawyers had never no call to buy anything,-- either lands or houses,-- for they allays got 'em into their hands other ways. An' I should think that 'ud be the way with you, sir; and I niver said as you'd be the man to do contrairy to that
Ah, well, who was it that _did_ say so
Why, sir, it was Mr. Glegg and Mr. Deane, as have all the management; and Mr. Deane thinks as Guest &amp;Co. 'ud buy the mill and let Mr. Tulliver work it for 'em, if you didn't bid for it and raise the price. And it 'ud be such a thing for my husband to stay where he is, if he could get his living: for it was his father's before him, the mill was, and his grandfather built it, though I wasn't fond o' the noise of it, when first I was married, for there was no mills in our family,-- not the Dodson's,-- and if I'd known as the mills had so much to do with the law, it wouldn't have been me as 'ud have been the first Dodson to marry one; but I went into it blindfold, that I did, erigation and everything
What! Guest &amp;Co. would keep the mill in their own hands, I suppose, and pay your husband wages
Oh dear, sir, it's hard to think of
as my husband should take wage. But it 'ud look more like what used to be, to stay at the mill than to go anywhere else; and if you'll only think -- if you was to bid for the mill and buy it, my husband might be struck worse than he was before, and niver get better again as he's getting now
Well, but if I bought the mill, and allowed your husband to act as my manager in the same way, how then
Oh, sir, I doubt he could niver be got to do it, not if the very mill stood still to beg and pray of him. For your name's like poison to him, it's so as never was; and he looks upon it as you've been the ruin of him all along, ever since you set the law on him about the road through the meadow,-- that's eight year ago, and he's been going on ever since -- as I've allays told him he was wrong
He's a pig-headed, foul-mouthed fool
Oh dear, sir
I wouldn't wish to contradict you, but it's like enough he's changed his mind with this illness,-- he's forgot a many things he used to talk about. And you wouldn't like to have a corpse on your mind, if he was to die; and they _do_ say as it's allays unlucky when Dorlcote Mill changes hands, and the water might all run away, and _then_ -- not as I'm wishing you any ill-luck, sir, for I forgot to tell you as I remember your wedding as if it was yesterday; Mrs. Wakem was a Miss Clint, I know _that;_ and my boy, as there isn't a nicer, handsomer, straighter boy nowhere, went to school with your son
You must excuse me for interrupting you, Mrs. Tulliver; I have business that must be attended to; and I think there is nothing more necessary to be said
But if you _would_ bear it in mind, sir
and not run against me and my children; and I'm not denying Mr. Tulliver's been in the wrong, but he's been punished enough, and there's worse men, for it's been giving to other folks has been his fault. He's done nobody any harm but himself and his family,-- the more's the pity,-- and I go and look at the bare shelves every day, and think where all my things used to stand
Yes, yes, I'll bear it in mind
And if you'd please not to say as I've been to speak to you, for my son 'ud be very angry with me for demeaning myself, I know he would, and I've trouble enough without being scolded by my children
good morning
Which day is it that Dorlcote Mill is to be sold? Where's the bill
Next Friday is the day,-- Friday at six o'clock
Oh, just run to Winship's the auctioneer, and see if he's at home. I have some business for him; ask him to come up
to them as were the best friends he'd got to look to
turning Mr. Tulliver round about Wakem
so as nobody could be fairer
Oh dear, what _have_ I done to deserve worse than other women
Tom
we _must_ try to make father understand a little of what has happened before he goes downstairs. But we must get my mother away. She will say something that will do harm. Ask Kezia to fetch her down, and keep her engaged with something in the kitchen
wage or no wage
mushed
Ay, ay, Luke; stop a bit, sit down
How's the water now, eh, Luke
Dix hasn't been choking you up again, eh
No, sir, it's all right
Ay, I thought not; he won't be in a hurry at that again, now Riley's been to settle him. That was what I said to Riley yesterday -- I said
Father
don't you remember that Mr. Riley is dead
Dead
Yes, he died of apoplexy nearly a year ago. I remember hearing you say you had to pay money for him; and he left his daughters badly off; one of them is under-teacher at Miss Firniss's, where I've been to school, you know
Ah
It's a long while since you had the dispute with Dix, father
I remember your talking about it three years ago, before I went to school at Mr. Stelling's. I've been at school there three years; don't you remember
Ay, ay
I've paid a deal o' money -- I was determined my son should have a good eddication; I'd none myself, and I've felt the miss of it. And he'll want no other fortin, that's what I say -- if Wakem was to get the better of me again
Where have they put Gore's letter
You know what there is in the letter, father
To be sure I do
What o' that? If Furley can't take to the property, somebody else can; there's plenty o' people in the world besides Furley. But it's hindering -- my not being well -- go and tell 'em to get the horse in the gig, Luke; I can get down to St. Ogg's well enough -- Gore's expecting me
No, dear father
it's a very long while since all that; you've been ill a great many weeks,-- more than two months; everything is changed
Yes, father
You needn't trouble your mind about business until you are quite well; everything is settled about that for the present,-- about the mill and the land and the debts
What's settled, then
Don't you take on too much bout it, sir
You'd ha' paid iverybody if you could,-- that's what I said to Master Tom,-- I said you'd ha' paid iverybody if you could
Paid everybody
Why -- what -- have they made me a _bankrupt
Oh, father, dear father
bear it well, because we love you; your children will always love you. Tom will pay them all; he says he will, when he's a man
Ay, my little wench, but I shall never live twice o'er
But perhaps you will live to see me pay everybody, father
Ah, my lad
but what's broke can never be whole again; it 'ud be your doing, not mine
You're only sixteen; it's an up-hill fight for you, but you mustn't throw it at your father; the raskills have been too many for him. I've given you a good eddication,-- that'll start you
Have they sold me up, then
Everything is sold, father; but we don't know all about the mill and the land yet
You must not be surprised to see the room look very bare downstairs, father
but there's your chair and the bureau; _they're_ not gone
Let us go; help me down, Luke,-- I'll go and see everything
Ay, sir
you'll make up your mind to't a bit better when you've seen iverything; you'll get used to't. That's what my mother says about her shortness o' breath,-- she says she's made friends wi't now, though she fought again' it sore when it just come on
Ah
they've sold me up -- they've sold me up
They've left the big Bible
It's got everything in,-- when I was born and married; bring it me, Tom
Ah
my mother was Margaret Beaton; she died when she was forty-seven,-- hers wasn't a long-lived family; we're our mother's children, Gritty and me are,-- we shall go to our last bed before long
They haven't come upo' Moss for the money as I lent him, have they
No, father
the note was burnt
Ah -- Elizabeth Dodson -- it's eighteen year since I married her
Come next Ladyday
Poor Bessy
you was a pretty lass then,-- everybody said so,-- and I used to think you kept your good looks rarely. But you're sorely aged; don't you bear me ill-will -- I meant to do well by you -- we promised one another for better or for worse
But I never thought it 'ud be so for worse as this
and my poor father gave me away -- and to come on so all at once
Oh, mother
don't talk in that way
No, I know you won't let your poor mother speak -- that's been the way all my life -- your father never minded what I said -- it 'ud have been o' no use for me to beg and pray -- and it 'ud be no use now, not if I was to go down o' my hands and knees
Don't say so, Bessy
It there's anything left as I could do to make you amends, I wouldn't say you nay
Then we might stay here and get a living, and I might keep among my own sisters,-- and me been such a good wife to you, and never crossed you from week's end to week's end -- and they all say so -- they say it 'ud be nothing but right, only you're so turned against Wakem
Mother
this is not the time to talk about that
Let her be
Say what you mean, Bessy
Why, now the mill and the land's all Wakem's, and he's got everything in his hands, what's the use o' setting your face against him, when he says you may stay here, and speaks as fair as can be, and says you may manage the business, and have thirty shillings a-week, and a horse to ride about to market? And where have we got to put our heads? We must go into one o' the cottages in the village,-- and me and my children brought down to that,-- and all because you must set your mind against folks till there's no turning you
You may do as you like wi' me, Bessy
I've been the bringing of you to poverty -- this world's too many for me -- I'm nought but a bankrupt; it's no use standing up for anything now
Father
I don't agree with my mother or my uncles, and I don't think you ought to submit to be under Wakem. I get a pound a-week now, and you can find something else to do when you get well
Say no more, Tom, say no more; I've had enough for this day. Give me a kiss, Bessy, and let us bear one another no ill-will; we shall never be young again -- this world's been too many for me
Ay, Luke
I remember the day they planted those apple-trees. My father was a huge man for planting,-- it was like a merry-making to him to get a cart full o' young trees; and I used to stand i' the cold with him, and follow him about like a dog
The old mill 'ud miss me, I think, Luke. There's a story as when the mill changes hands, the river's angry; I've heard my father say it many a time. There's no telling whether there mayn't be summat _in_ the story, for this is a puzzling world, and Old Harry's got a finger in it -- it's been too many for me, I know
Ay, sir
what wi' the rust on the wheat, an' the firin' o' the ricks an' that, as I've seen i' my time,-- things often looks comical; there's the bacon fat wi' our last pig run away like butter,-- it leaves nought but a scratchin
It's just as if it was yesterday, now
when my father began the malting. I remember, the day they finished the malt-house, I thought summat great was to come of it; for we'd a plum-pudding that day and a bit of a feast, and I said to my mother,-- she was a fine dark-eyed woman, my mother was,-- the little wench 'ull be as like her as two peas
I was a little chap no higher much than my mother's knee,-- she was sore fond of us children, Gritty and me,-- and so I said to her, 'Mother,' I said, 'shall we have plum-pudding _every_ day because o' the malt-house? She used to tell me o' that till her dying day. She was but a young woman when she died, my mother was. But it's forty good year since they finished the malt-house, and it isn't many days out of 'em all as I haven't looked out into the yard there, the first thing in the morning,-- all weathers, from year's end to year's end. I should go off my head in a new place. I should be like as if I'd lost my way. It's all hard, whichever way I look at it,-- the harness 'ull gall me, but it 'ud be summat to draw along the old road, instead of a new un
Ay, sir
you'd be a deal better here nor in some new place. I can't abide new places mysen: things is allays awk'ard,-- narrow-wheeled waggins, belike, and the stiles all another sort, an' oat-cake i' some places, tow'rt th' head o' the Floss, there. It's poor work, changing your country-side
But I doubt, Luke, they'll be for getting rid o' Ben, and making you do with a lad; and I must help a bit wi' the mill. You'll have a worse place
Ne'er mind, sir
I sha'n't plague mysen. I'n been wi' you twenty year, an' you can't get twenty year wi' whistlin' for 'em, no more nor you can make the trees grow: you mun wait till God A'mighty sends 'em. I can't abide new victual nor new faces, _I_ can't,-- you niver know but what they'll gripe you
Dear heart, Mr. Tulliver, what can you be thinking of
it's very wasteful, breaking the coal, and we've got hardly any large coal left, and I don't know where the rest is to come from
I don't think you're quite so well to-night, are you, father
you seem uneasy
Why, how is it Tom doesn't come
Dear heart, is it time? I must go and get his supper
It's nigh upon half-past eight
He'll be here soon. Go, go and get the big Bible, and open it at the beginning, where everything's set down. And get the pen and ink
There he is, then
Stop a bit, Maggie; I'll open it
Your supper's ready by the kitchen-fire, my boy
You shall have it by yourself, just as you like, and I won't speak to you
I think my father wants Tom, mother
he must come into the parlor first
Come, come, you're late; I want you
Is there anything the matter, father
You sit down, all of you
And, Tom, sit down here; I've got something for you to write i' the Bible
I've made up my mind, Bessy, and I'll be as good as my word to you. There'll be the same grave made for us to lie down in, and we mustn't be bearing one another ill-will. I'll stop in the old place, and I'll serve under Wakem, and I'll serve him like an honest man; there's no Tulliver but what's honest, mind that, Tom
they'll have it to throw up against me as I paid a dividend, but it wasn't my fault; it was because there's raskills in the world. They've been too many for me, and I must give in. I'll put my neck in harness,-- for you've a right to say as I've brought you into trouble, Bessy,-- and I'll serve him as honest as if he was no raskill; I'm an honest man, though I shall never hold my head up no more. I'm a tree as is broke -- a tree as is broke
But I won't forgive him! I know what they say, he never meant me any harm. That's the way Old Harry props up the rascals. He's been at the bottom of everything; but he's a fine gentleman,-- I know, I know. I shouldn't ha' gone to law, they say. But who made it so as there was no arbitratin', and no justice to be got? It signifies nothing to him, I know that; he's one o' them fine gentlemen as get money by doing business for poorer folks, and when he's made beggars of 'em he'll give 'em charity. I won't forgive him! I wish he might be punished with shame till his own son 'ud like to forget him. I wish he may do summat as they'd make him work at the treadmill! But he won't,-- he's too big a raskill to let the law lay hold on him. And you mind this, Tom,-- you never forgive him neither, if you mean to be my son. There'll maybe come a time when you may make him feel; it'll never come to me; I'n got my head under the yoke. Now write -- write it i' the Bible
Oh, father, what
It's wicked to curse and bear malice
It isn't wicked, I tell you
It's wicked as the raskills should prosper; it's the Devil's doing. Do as I tell you, Tom. Write
What am I to write
Write as your father, Edward Tulliver, took service under John Wakem, the man as had helped to ruin him, because I'd promised my wife to make her what amends I could for her trouble, and because I wanted to die in th' old place where I was born and my father was born. Put that i' the right words -- you know how -- and then write, as I don't forgive Wakem for all that; and for all I'll serve him honest, I wish evil may befall him. Write that
Now let me hear what you've wrote
Now write -- write as you'll remember what Wakem's done to your father, and you'll make him and his feel it, if ever the day comes. And sign your name Thomas Tulliver
Oh no, father, dear father
You shouldn't make Tom write that
Be quiet, Maggie
I _shall_ write it." 

Book IV





_The Valley of Humiliation_
kin
Let it alone, my dear; your hands 'ull get as hard as hard
it's your mother's place to do that. I can't do the sewing -- my eyes fail me
Why will they not kindle up and be glad sometimes
It would be so easy if they only liked to do it
do the right thing
Oh, Bob, it's you
I'm so glad to see you
Thank you, Miss
Get out wi' you, you thunderin' sawney
My brother is not at home yet, Bob
he is always at St. Ogg's in the daytime
Well, Miss
I should be glad to see Mr. Tom, but that isn't just what I'm come for,-- look here
See here
you won't think I'm a-makin' too free, Miss, I hope, but I lighted on these books, and I thought they might make up to you a bit for them as you've lost; for I heared you speak o' picturs,-- an' as for picturs, _look_ here
Portrait Gallery
There's all sorts o' genelmen here
wi' all sorts o' nones,-- an' some bald an' some wi' wigs,-- Parlament genelmen, I reckon. An' here
Keepsake
And you've bought them for me, Bob
How very, very good of you! But I'm afraid you gave a great deal of money for them
Not me
I'd ha' gev three times the money if they'll make up to you a bit for them as was sold away from you, Miss. For I'n niver forgot how you looked when you fretted about the books bein' gone; it's stuck by me as if it was a pictur hingin' before me. An' when I see'd the book open upo' the stall, wi' the lady lookin' out of it wi' eyes a bit like your'n when you was frettin',-- you'll excuse my takin' the liberty, Miss,-- I thought I'd make free to buy it for you, an' then I bought the books full o' genelmen to match; an' then
I thought you might like a bit more print as well as the picturs, an' I got these for a sayso,-- they're cram-full o' print, an' I thought they'd do no harm comin' along wi' these bettermost books. An' I hope you won't say me nay, an' tell me as you won't have 'em, like Mr. Tom did wi' the suvreigns
No, indeed, Bob
I'm very thankful to you for thinking of me, and being so good to me and Tom. I don't think any one ever did such a kind thing for me before. I haven't many friends who care for me
Hev a dog, Miss!-- they're better friends nor any Christian
I can't give you Mumps, 'cause he'd break his heart to go away from me -- eh, Mumps, what do you say, you riff-raff
But I'd get you a pup, Miss, an' welcome
No, thank you, Bob. We have a yard dog, and I mayn't keep a dog of my own
Eh, that's a pity; else there's a pup,-- if you didn't mind about it not being thoroughbred; its mother acts in the Punch show,-- an uncommon sensible bitch; she means more sense wi' her bark nor half the chaps can put into their talk from breakfast to sundown. There's one chap carries pots,-- a poor, low trade as any on the road,-- he says, 'Why Toby's nought but a mongrel; there's nought to look at in her.' But I says to him, 'Why, what are you yoursen but a mongrel? There wasn't much pickin' o' _your_ feyther an' mother, to look at you.' Not but I like a bit o' breed myself, but I can't abide to see one cur grinnin' at another. I wish you good evenin', Miss
Won't you come in the evening some time, and see my brother, Bob
Yes, Miss, thank you -- another time. You'll give my duty to him, if you please. Eh, he's a fine growed chap, Mr. Tom is; he took to growin' i' the legs, an' _I_ didn't
You don't call Mumps a cur, I suppose
No, Miss, a fine way off that
Mumps is as fine a cross as you'll see anywhere along the Floss, an' I'n been up it wi' the barge times enow. Why, the gentry stops to look at him; but you won't catch Mumps a-looking at the gentry much,-- he minds his own business, he does
He looks dreadfully surly
Would he let me pat him
Ay, that would he, and thank you. He knows his company, Mumps does. He isn't a dog as 'ull be caught wi' gingerbread; he'd smell a thief a good deal stronger nor the gingerbread, he would. Lors, I talk to him by th' hour together, when I'm walking i' lone places, and if I'n done a bit o' mischief, I allays tell him. I'n got no secrets but what Mumps knows 'em. He knows about my big thumb, he does
Your big thumb -- what's that, Bob
That's what it is, Miss
It tells i' measuring out the flannel, you see. I carry flannel, 'cause it's light for my pack, an' it's dear stuff, you see, so a big thumb tells. I clap my thumb at the end o' the yard and cut o' the hither side of it, and the old women aren't up to't
But Bob
that's cheating; I don't like to hear you say that
Don't you, Miss
Then I'm sorry I said it. But I'm so used to talking to Mumps, an' he doesn't mind a bit o' cheating, when it's them skinflint women, as haggle an' haggle, an' 'ud like to get their flannel for nothing, an' 'ud niver ask theirselves how I got my dinner out on't. I niver cheat anybody as doesn't want to cheat me, Miss,-- lors, I'm a honest chap, I am; only I must hev a bit o' sport, an' now I don't go wi' th' ferrets, I'n got no varmint to come over but them haggling women. I wish you good evening, Miss
Good-by, Bob. Thank you very much for bringing me the books. And come again to see Tom
Yes, Miss
I'll leave off that trick wi' my big thumb, if you don't think well on me for it, Miss; but it 'ud be a pity, it would. I couldn't find another trick so good,-- an' what 'ud be the use o' havin' a big thumb? It might as well ha' been narrow
real learning and wisdom, such as great men knew
Come, am I to fetch my slippers myself
Portrait Gallery
Beauties of the Spectator
Economy of Human Life
Christian Year
Know that the love of thyself doth hurt thee more than anything in the world.... If thou seekest this or that, and wouldst be here or there to enjoy thy own will and pleasure, thou shalt never be quiet nor free from care; for in everything somewhat will be wanting, and in every place there will be some that will cross thee.... Both above and below, which way soever thou dost turn thee, everywhere thou shalt find the Cross; and everywhere of necessity thou must have patience, if thou wilt have inward peace, and enjoy an everlasting crown.... If thou desirest to mount unto this height, thou must set out courageously, and lay the axe to the root, that thou mayest pluck up and destroy that hidden inordinate inclination to thyself, and unto all private and earthly good. On this sin, that a man inordinately loveth himself, almost all dependeth, whatsoever is thoroughly to be overcome; which evil being once overcome and subdued, there will presently ensue great peace and tranquillity.... It is but little thou sufferest in comparison of them that have suffered so much, were so strongly tempted, so grievously afflicted, so many ways tried and exercised. Thou oughtest therefore to call to mind the more heavy sufferings of others, that thou mayest the easier bear thy little adversities. And if they seem not little unto thee, beware lest thy impatience be the cause thereof.... Blessed are those ears that receive the whispers of the divine voice, and listen not to the whisperings of the world. Blessed are those ears which hearken not unto the voice which soundeth outwardly, but unto the Truth, which teacheth inwardly
Why dost thou here gaze about, since this is not the place of thy rest? In heaven ought to be thy dwelling, and all earthly things are to be looked on as they forward thy journey thither. All things pass away, and thou together with them. Beware thou cleavest not unto them, lest thou be entangled and perish.... If a man should give all his substance, yet it is as nothing. And if he should do great penances, yet are they but little. And if he should attain to all knowledge, he is yet far off. And if he should be of great virtue, and very fervent devotion, yet is there much wanting; to wit, one thing, which is most necessary for him. What is that? That having left all, he leave himself, and go wholly out of himself, and retain nothing of self-love.... I have often said unto thee, and now again I say the same, Forsake thyself, resign thyself, and thou shalt enjoy much inward peace.... Then shall all vain imaginations, evil perturbations, and superfluous cares fly away; then shall immoderate fear leave thee, and inordinate love shall die
enthusiasm
I don't like _my_ sister to do such things
_I'll_ take care that the debts are paid, without your lowering yourself in that way
plain
Let your mother have that bit o' pleasure, my dear
I'd trouble enough with your hair once
I knew well enough what she'd be, before now,-- it's nothing new to me. But it's a pity she isn't made o' commoner stuff; she'll be thrown away, I doubt,-- there'll be nobody to marry her as is fit for her
Hill
You startled me
I never meet any one here. How came you to be walking here? Did you come to meet _me
Yes, I did
I wished to see you very much. I watched a long while yesterday on the bank near your house to see if you would come out, but you never came. Then I watched again to-day, and when I saw the way you took, I kept you in sight and came down the bank, behind there. I hope you will not be displeased with me
No
I'm very glad you came, for I wished very much to have an opportunity of speaking to you. I've never forgotten how good you were long ago to Tom, and me too; but I was not sure that you would remember us so well. Tom and I have had a great deal of trouble since then, and I think _that_ makes one think more of what happened before the trouble came
I can't believe that you have thought of me so much as I have thought of you
Do you know, when I was away, I made a picture of you as you looked that morning in the study when you said you would not forget me
Oh dear
what a queer little girl I was! I remember myself with my hair in that way, in that pink frock. I really _was_ like a gypsy. I dare say I am now
am I like what you expected me to be
No, Maggie
You are very much more beautiful than I thought you would be
Am I
I wish we could have been friends,-- I mean, if it would have been good and right for us. But that is the trial I have to bear in everything; I may not keep anything I used to love when I was little. The old books went; and Tom is different, and my father. It is like death. I must part with everything I cared for when I was a child. And I must part with you; we must never take any notice of each other again. That was what I wanted to speak to you for. I wanted to let you know that Tom and I can't do as we like about such things, and that if I behave as if I had forgotten all about you, it is not out of envy or pride -- or -- or any bad feeling
I know; I see all that you mean
I know what there is to keep us apart on both sides. But it is not right, Maggie,-- don't you be angry with me, I am so used to call you Maggie in my thoughts,-- it is not right to sacrifice everything to other people's unreasonable feelings. I would give up a great deal for _my_ father; but I would not give up a friendship or -- or an attachment of any sort, in obedience to any wish of his that I didn't recognize as right
I don't know
Often, when I have been angry and discontented, it has seemed to me that I was not bound to give up anything; and I have gone on thinking till it has seemed to me that I could think away all my duty. But no good has ever come of that; it was an evil state of mind. I'm quite sure that whatever I might do, I should wish in the end that I had gone without anything for myself, rather than have made my father's life harder to him
But would it make his life harder if we were to see each other sometimes
Oh, I'm sure he wouldn't like it. Don't ask me why, or anything about it
My father feels so strongly about some things. He is not at all happy
No more am I
I am not happy
Why
At least -- I ought not to ask -- but I'm very, very sorry
I've been a great deal happier
since I have given up thinking about what is easy and pleasant, and being discontented because I couldn't have my own will. Our life is determined for us; and it makes the mind very free when we give up wishing, and only think of bearing what is laid upon us, and doing what is given us to do
But I can't give up wishing
It seems to me we can never give up longing and wishing while we are thoroughly alive. There are certain things we feel to be beautiful and good, and we _must_ hunger after them. How can we ever be satisfied without them until our feelings are deadened? I delight in fine pictures; I long to be able to paint such. I strive and strive, and can't produce what I want. That is pain to me, and always _will_ be pain, until my faculties lose their keenness, like aged eyes. Then there are many other things I long for
things that other men have, and that will always be denied me. My life will have nothing great or beautiful in it; I would rather not have lived
Oh, Philip
I wish you didn't feel so
Well, then
I should be contented to live, if you would let me see you sometimes
I have no friend to whom I can tell everything, no one who cares enough about me; and if I could only see you now and then, and you would let me talk to you a little, and show me that you cared for me, and that we may always be friends in heart, and help each other, then I might come to be glad of life
But how can I see you, Philip
If you would let me see you here sometimes,-- walk with you here,-- I would be contented if it were only once or twice in a month. _That_ could injure no one's happiness, and it would sweeten my life. Besides
if there is any enmity between those who belong to us, we ought all the more to try and quench it by our friendship; I mean, that by our influence on both sides we might bring about a healing of the wounds that have been made in the past, if I could know everything about them. And I don't believe there is any enmity in my own father's mind; I think he has proved the contrary
I can't say either yes or no
I must wait, lest I should decide wrongly. I must seek for guidance
May I come again, then, to-morrow, or the next day, or next week
I think I had better write
I have to go to St. Ogg's sometimes, and I can put the letter in the post
Oh no
that would not be so well. My father might see the letter -- and -- he has not any enmity, I believe, but he views things differently from me; he thinks a great deal about wealth and position. Pray let me come here once more. _Tell_ me when it shall be; or if you can't tell me, I will come as often as I can till I do see you
I think it must be so, then
for I can't be quite certain of coming here any particular evening
I can't help thinking
how strange it is that we should have met and talked to each other, just as if it had been only yesterday when we parted at Lorton. And yet we must both be very much altered in those five years,-- I think it is five years. How was it you seemed to have a sort of feeling that I was the same Maggie? I was not quite so sure that you would be the same; I know you are so clever, and you must have seen and learnt so much to fill your mind; I was not quite sure you would care about me now
I have never had any doubt that you would be the same, whenever I migh see you
I mean, the same in everything that made me like you better than any one else. I don't want to explain that; I don't think any of the strongest effects our natures are susceptible of can ever be explained. We can neither detect the process by which they are arrived at, nor the mode in which they act on us. The greatest of painters only once painted a mysteriously divine child; he couldn't have told how he did it, and we can't tell why we feel it to be divine. I think there are stores laid up in our human nature that our understandings can make no complete inventory of. Certain strains of music affect me so strangely; I can never hear them without their changing my whole attitude of mind for a time, and if the effect would last, I might be capable of heroisms
Ah! I know what you mean about music; _I_ feel so
At least
I used to feel so when I had any music; I never have any now except the organ at church
And you long for it, Maggie
Ah, you can have very little that is beautiful in your life. Have you many books? You were so fond of them when you were a little girl
No, I have given up books
except a very, very few
Ah, this is the second volume, I see, else you might have liked to take it home with you. I put it in my pocket because I am studying a scene for a picture
The Pirate
Oh, I began that once; I read to where Minna is walking with Cleveland, and I could never get to read the rest. I went on with it in my own head, and I made several endings; but they were all unhappy. I could never make a happy ending out of that beginning. Poor Minna! I wonder what is the real end. For a long while I couldn't get my mind away from the Shetland Isles,-- I used to feel the wind blowing on me from the rough sea
Take that volume home with you, Maggie
I don't want it now. I shall make a picture of you instead,-- you, among the Scotch firs and the slanting shadows
Do keep it, Maggie
it will give you pleasure
No, thank you
It would make me in love with this world again, as I used to be; it would make me long to see and know many things; it would make me long for a full life
But you will not always be shut up in your present lot; why should you starve your mind in that way? It is narrow asceticism; I don't like to see you persisting in it, Maggie. Poetry and art and knowledge are sacred and pure
But not for me, not for me
because I should want too much. I must wait; this life will not last long
Don't hurry away from me without saying 'good-by,' Maggie
I must not go any farther, I think, must I
Oh no, I forgot; good-by
I'm very grateful to you for thinking of me all those years. It is very sweet to have people love us. What a wonderful, beautiful thing it seems that God should have made your heart so that you could care about a queer little girl whom you only knew for a few weeks! I remember saying to you that I thought you cared for me more than Tom did
Ah, Maggie
you would never love me so well as you love your brother
Perhaps not
but then, you know, the first thing I ever remember in my life is standing with Tom by the side of the Floss, while he held my hand; everything before that is dark to me. But I shall never forget you, though we must keep apart
Don't say so, Maggie
If I kept that little girl in my mind for five years, didn't I earn some part in her? She ought not to take herself quite away from me
Not if I were free
but I am not, I must submit
And I wanted to say to you, that you had better not take more notice of my brother than just bowing to him. He once told me not to speak to you again, and he doesn't change his mind -- Oh dear, the sun is set. I am too long away. Good-by
I shall come here as often as I can till I see you again, Maggie. Have some feeling for _me_ as well as for others
Yes, yes, I have
How much do you want, then
Suppose I begin with the thirty-six pounds, father
It's as much as I can save out o' my pay in a year
Yes, father; it is such slow work, saving out of the little money we get. And in this way we might double our savings
Ay, my lad
but you might lose it,-- you might lose a year o' my life,-- and I haven't got many
And you know I wouldn't pay a dividend with the first hundred, because I wanted to see it all in a lump,-- and when I see it, I'm sure on't. If you trust to luck, it's sure to be against me. It's Old Harry's got the luck in his hands; and if I lose one year, I shall never pick it up again; death 'ull o'ertake me
I'll give it up, father, since you object to it so strongly
Heigh! heigh! keep that dog back, will you
Get out wi' you, Mumps
He's as quiet as a lamb, sir
Why, what ever does this mean, Tom
Have you brought information about the scoundrels as cut my trees
information
No, sir
I came to speak to you about a little matter of business of my own
Ay -- well; but what has this dog got to do with it
It's my dog, sir
An' it's me as put Mr. Tom up to the bit o' business; for Mr. Tom's been a friend o' mine iver since I was a little chap; fust thing iver I did was frightenin' the birds for th' old master. An' if a bit o' luck turns up, I'm allays thinkin' if I can let Mr. Tom have a pull at it. An' it's a downright roarin' shame, as when he's got the chance o' making a bit o' money wi' sending goods out,-- ten or twelve per zent clear, when freight an' commission's paid,-- as he shouldn't lay hold o' the chance for want o' money. An' when there's the Laceham goods,-- lors! they're made o' purpose for folks as want to send out a little carguy; light, an' take up no room,-- you may pack twenty pound so as you can't see the passill; an' they're manifacturs as please fools, so I reckon they aren't like to want a market. An' I'd go to Laceham an' buy in the goods for Mr. Tom along wi' my own. An' there's the shupercargo o' the bit of a vessel as is goin' to take 'em out. I know him partic'lar; he's a solid man, an' got a family i' the town here. Salt, his name is,-- an' a briny chap he is too,-- an' if you don't believe me, I can take you to him
You seem to be a knowing fellow
Ay, sir, you say true
I think my head's all alive inside like an old cheese, for I'm so full o' plans, one knocks another over. If I hadn't Mumps to talk to, I should get top-heavy an' tumble in a fit. I suppose it's because I niver went to school much. That's what I jaw my old mother for. I says, 'You should ha' sent me to school a bit more,' I says, 'an' then I could ha' read i' the books like fun, an' kep' my head cool an' empty.' Lors, she's fine an' comfor'ble now, my old mother is; she ates her baked meat an' taters as often as she likes. For I'm gettin' so full o' money, I must hev a wife to spend it for me. But it's botherin,' a wife is,-- and Mumps mightn't like her
Ah
I should think you're at a loss for ways o' spending your money, else you wouldn't keep that big dog, to eat as much as two Christians. It's shameful -- shameful
But, come now, let's hear more about this business, Tom. I suppose you want a little sum to make a venture with. But where's all your own money? You don't spend it all -- eh
No, sir
but my father is unwilling to risk it, and I don't like to press him. If I could get twenty or thirty pounds to begin with, I could pay five per cent for it, and then I could gradually make a little capital of my own, and do without a loan
Ay -- ay
that's not a bad notion, and I won't say as I wouldn't be your man. But it 'ull be as well for me to see this Salt, as you talk on. And then -- here's this friend o' yours offers to buy the goods for you. Perhaps you've got somebody to stand surety for you if the money's put into your hands
I don't think that's necessary, uncle
At least, I mean it would not be necessary for me, because I know Bob well; but perhaps it would be right for you to have some security
You get your percentage out o' the purchase, I suppose
No, sir
I didn't offer to get a apple for Mr. Tom, o' purpose to hev a bite out of it myself. When I play folks tricks, there'll be more fun in 'em nor that
Well, but it's nothing but right you should have a small percentage
I've no opinion o' transactions where folks do things for nothing. It allays looks bad
Well, then
I'll tell you what I get by't, an' it's money in my pocket in the end,-- I make myself look big, wi' makin' a bigger purchase. That's what I'm thinking on. Lors! I'm a 'cute chap,-- I am
Mr. Glegg, Mr. Glegg
pray are you coming in to tea, or are you going to stand talking with packmen till you get murdered in the open daylight
Murdered
what's the woman talking of? Here's your nephey Tom come about a bit o' business
Murdered,-- yes,-- it isn't many 'sizes ago since a packman murdered a young woman in a lone place, and stole her thimble, and threw her body into a ditch
Nay, nay
you're thinking o' the man wi' no legs, as drove a dog-cart
Well, it's the same thing, Mr. Glegg, only you're fond o' contradicting what I say; and if my nephey's come about business, it 'ud be more fitting if you'd bring him into the house, and let his aunt know about it, instead o' whispering in corners, in that plotting, underminding way
Well, well
we'll come in now
You needn't stay here
We don't want anything. I don't deal wi' packmen. Mind you shut the gate after you
Stop a bit; not so fast
I haven't done with this young man yet. Come in, Tom; come in
Mr. Glegg
if you're going to let that man and his dog in on my carpet, before my very face, be so good as to let me know. A wife's got a right to ask that, I hope
Don't you be uneasy, mum
we'll stay out upo' the gravel here,-- Mumps and me will. Mumps knows his company,-- he does. I might hish at him by th' hour together, before he'd fly at a real gentlewoman like you. It's wonderful how he knows which is the good-looking ladies; and's partic'lar fond of 'em when they've good shapes. Lors
it's a thousand pities such a lady as you shouldn't deal with a packman, i' stead o' goin' into these newfangled shops, where there's half-a-dozen fine gents wi' their chins propped up wi' a stiff stock, a-looking like bottles wi' ornamental stoppers, an' all got to get their dinner out of a bit o' calico; it stan's to reason you must pay three times the price you pay a packman, as is the nat'ral way o' gettin' goods,-- an' pays no rent, an' isn't forced to throttle himself till the lies are squeezed out on him, whether he will or no. But lors! mum, you know what it is better nor I do,-- _you_ can see through them shopmen, I'll be bound
Yes, I reckon I can, and through the packmen too
Ay, to be sure, mum
Why, you must ha' dealt wi' no end o' packmen when you war a young lass -- before the master here had the luck to set eyes on you. I know where you lived, I do,-- seen th' house many a time,-- close upon Squire Darleigh's,-- a stone house wi' steps
Ah, that it had
You know something o' my family, then? Are you akin to that packman with a squint in his eye, as used to bring th' Irish linen
Look you there now
Didn't I know as you'd remember the best bargains you've made in your life was made wi' packmen? Why, you see even a squintin' packman's better nor a shopman as can see straight. Lors! if I'd had the luck to call at the stone house wi' my pack, as lies here
an' th' handsome young lasses all stannin' out on the stone steps, it ud' ha' been summat like openin' a pack, that would. It's on'y the poor houses now as a packman calls on, if it isn't for the sake o' the sarvant-maids. They're paltry times, these are. Why, mum, look at the printed cottons now, an' what they was when you wore 'em,-- why, you wouldn't put such a thing on now, I can see. It must be first-rate quality, the manifactur as you'd buy,-- summat as 'ud wear as well as your own faitures
Yes, better quality nor any you're like to carry; you've got nothing first-rate but brazenness, I'll be bound
Mr. Glegg, are you going ever to sit down to your tea? Tom, there's a cup for you
You speak true there, mum
My pack isn't for ladies like you. The time's gone by for that. Bargains picked up dirt cheap! A bit o' damage here an' there, as can be cut out, or else niver seen i' the wearin', but not fit to offer to rich folks as can pay for the look o' things as nobody sees. I'm not the man as 'ud offer t' open my pack to _you_, mum; no, no; I'm a imperent chap, as you say,-- these times makes folks imperent,-- but I'm not up to the mark o' that
Why, what goods do you carry in your pack
Fine-colored things, I suppose,-- shawls an' that
All sorts, mum, all sorts
but let us say no more about that, if _you_ please. I'm here upo' Mr. Tom's business, an' I'm not the man to take up the time wi' my own
And pray, what _is_ this business as is to be kept from me
A little plan o' nephey Tom's here
and not altogether a bad 'un, I think. A little plan for making money; that's the right sort o' plan for young folks as have got their fortin to make, eh, Jane
But I hope it isn't a plan where he expects iverything to be done for him by his friends; that's what the young folks think of mostly nowadays. And pray, what has this packman got to do wi' what goes on in our family? Can't you speak for yourself, Tom, and let your aunt know things, as a nephey should
This is Bob Jakin, aunt
I've known him ever since we were little boys. He's a very good fellow, and always ready to do me a kindness. And he has had some experience in sending goods out,-- a small part of a cargo as a private speculation; and he thinks if I could begin to do a little in the same way, I might make some money. A large interest is got in that way
Large int'rest
and what do you call large int'rest
Ten or twelve per cent, Bob says, after expenses are paid
Then why wasn't I let to know o' such things before, Mr. Glegg
Haven't you allays told me as there was no getting more nor five per cent
Pooh, pooh, nonsense, my good woman
You couldn't go into trade, could you? You can't get more than five per cent with security
But I can turn a bit o' money for you, an' welcome, mum
if you'd like to risk it,-- not as there's any risk to speak on. But if you'd a mind to lend a bit o' money to Mr. Tom, he'd pay you six or seven per zent, an' get a trifle for himself as well; an' a good-natur'd lady like you 'ud like the feel o' the money better if your nephey took part on it
What do you say, Mrs. G
I've a notion, when I've made a bit more inquiry, as I shall perhaps start Tom here with a bit of a nest-egg,-- he'll pay me int'rest, you know,-- an' if you've got some little sums lyin' idle twisted up in a stockin' toe, or that
Mr. Glegg, it's beyond iverything! You'll go and give information to the tramps next, as they may come and rob me
Well, well, as I was sayin', if you like to join me wi' twenty pounds, you can -- I'll make it fifty. That'll be a pretty good nest-egg, eh, Tom
You're not counting on me, Mr. Glegg, I hope
You could do fine things wi' my money, I don't doubt
Very well
then we'll do without you. I shall go with you to see this Salt
And now, I suppose, you'll go all the other way, Mr. Glegg
and want to shut me out o' my own nephey's business. I never said I wouldn't put money into it,-- I don't say as it shall be twenty pounds, though you're so ready to say it for me,-- but he'll see some day as his aunt's in the right not to risk the money she's saved for him till it's proved as it won't be lost
Ay, that's a pleasant sort o'risk, that is
Ay, mum
you know what's what -- you do. An' it's nothing but fair. _You_ see how the first bit of a job answers, an' then you'll come down handsome. Lors, it's a fine thing to hev good kin. I got my bit of a nest-egg, as the master calls it, all by my own sharpness,-- ten suvreigns it was,-- wi' dousing the fire at Torry's mill, an' it's growed an' growed by a bit an' a bit, till I'n got a matter o' thirty pound to lay out, besides makin' my mother comfor'ble. I should get more, on'y I'm such a soft wi' the women,-- I can't help lettin' 'em hev such good bargains. There's this bundle, now
any other chap 'ud make a pretty penny out on it. But me!-- lors, I shall sell 'em for pretty near what I paid for 'em
Have you got a bit of good net, now
Eh, mum, not what you'd think it worth your while to look at. I'd scorn to show it you. It 'ud be an insult to you
But let me see
If they're damaged goods, they're like enough to be a bit the better quality
No, mum, I know my place
I'm not going t' expose the lowness o' my trade to a lady like you. Packs is come down i' the world; it 'ud cut you to th' heart to see the difference. I'm at your sarvice, sir, when you've a mind to go and see Salt
All in good time
Are you wanted at the wharf, Tom
No, sir; I left Stowe in my place
Come, put down your pack, and let me see
Don't you ask it, mum
Make no more words
but do as I tell you
Eh mum, I'm loth, that I am
It's not as you'll buy a single thing on me,-- I'd be sorry for you to do it,-- for think o' them poor women up i' the villages there, as niver stir a hundred yards from home,-- it 'ud be a pity for anybody to buy up their bargains. Lors, it's as good as a junketing to 'em when they see me wi' my pack, an' I shall niver pick up such bargains for 'em again. Least ways, I've no time now, for I'm off to Laceham. See here now
here's a thing to make a lass's mouth water, an' on'y two shillin'-- an' why? Why, 'cause there's a bit of a moth-hole 'i this plain end. Lors, I think the moths an' the mildew was sent by Providence o' purpose to cheapen the goods a bit for the good-lookin' women as han't got much money. If it hadn't been for the moths, now, every hankicher on 'em 'ud ha' gone to the rich, handsome ladies, like you, mum, at five shillin' apiece,-- not a farthin' less; but what does the moth do? Why, it nibbles off three shillin' o' the price i' no time; an' then a packman like me can carry 't to the poor lasses as live under the dark thack, to make a bit of a blaze for 'em. Lors, it's as good as a fire, to look at such a hankicher
Yes, but nobody wants a fire this time o' year. Put these colored things by; let me look at your nets, if you've got 'em
Eh, mum, I told you how it 'ud be
I knowed it ud' turn again' you to look at such paltry articles as I carry. Here's a piece o' figured muslin now, what's the use o' you lookin' at it? You might as well look at poor folks's victual, mum; it 'ud on'y take away your appetite. There's a yard i' the middle on't as the pattern's all missed,-- lors, why, it's a muslin as the Princess Victoree might ha' wore; but
it'll be bought up by the huckster's wife at Fibb's End,-- that's where _it'll_ go -- ten shillin' for the whole lot -- ten yards, countin' the damaged un -- five-an'-twenty shillin' 'ud ha' been the price, not a penny less. But I'll say no more, mum; it's nothing to you, a piece o' muslin like that; you can afford to pay three times the money for a thing as isn't half so good. It's nets _you_ talked on; well, I've got a piece as 'ull serve you to make fun on
Bring me that muslin
It's a buff; I'm partial to buff
Eh, but a _damaged_ thing
You'd do nothing with it, mum, you'd give it to the cook, I know you would, an' it 'ud be a pity,-- she'd look too much like a lady in it; it's unbecoming for servants
Fetch it, and let me see you measure it
See what there is over measure
I'll give you six shilling for it
Didn't I tell you now, mum, as it 'ud hurt your feelings to look at my pack? That damaged bit's turned your stomach now; I see it has
You're used to seein' a different sort o' article carried by packmen, when you lived at the stone house. Packs is come down i' the world; I told you that; _my_ goods are for common folks. Mrs. Pepper 'ull give me ten shillin' for that muslin, an' be sorry as I didn't ask her more. Such articles answer i' the wearin',-- they keep their color till the threads melt away i' the wash-tub, an' that won't be while _I'm_ a young un
Well, seven shilling
Put it out o' your mind, mum, now do
Here's a bit o' net, then, for you to look at before I tie up my pack, just for you to see what my trade's come to,-- spotted and sprigged, you see, beautiful but yallow,--'s been lyin' by an' got the wrong color. I could niver ha' bought such net, if it hadn't been yallow. Lors, it's took me a deal o' study to know the vally o' such articles; when I begun to carry a pack, I was as ignirant as a pig; net or calico was all the same to me. I thought them things the most vally as was the thickest. I was took in dreadful, for I'm a straightforrard chap,-- up to no tricks, mum. I can only say my nose is my own, for if I went beyond, I should lose myself pretty quick. An' I gev five-an'-eightpence for that piece o' net,-- if I was to tell y' anything else I should be tellin' you fibs,-- an' five-an'-eightpence I shall ask of it, not a penny more, for it's a woman's article, an' I like to 'commodate the women. Five-an'-eightpence for six yards,-- as cheap as if it was only the dirt on it as was paid for
I don't mind having three yards of it
Why, there's but six altogether
No, mum, it isn't worth your while; you can go to the shop to-morrow an' get the same pattern ready whitened. It's on'y three times the money; what's that to a lady like you
Come, lay me out that muslin
Here's eight shilling for it
You _will_ be jokin
I see'd you was a pleasant lady when I fust come to the winder
Well, put it me out
But if I let you have it for ten shillin', mum, you'll be so good as not tell nobody. I should be a laughin'-stock; the trade 'ud hoot me, if they knowed it. I'm obliged to make believe as I ask more nor I do for my goods, else they'd find out I was a flat. I'm glad you don't insist upo' buyin' the net, for then I should ha' lost my two best bargains for Mrs. Pepper o' Fibb's End, an' she's a rare customer
Let me look at the net again
Well, I can't deny _you_, mum
Eh!, see what a pattern now! Real Laceham goods. Now, this is the sort o' article I'm recommendin' Mr. Tom to send out. Lors, it's a fine thing for anybody as has got a bit o' money; these Laceham goods 'ud make it breed like maggits. If I was a lady wi' a bit o' money!-- why, I know one as put thirty pounds into them goods,-- a lady wi' a cork leg, but as sharp,-- you wouldn't catch _her_ runnin' her head into a sack_she'd; _ see her way clear out o' anything afore she'd be in a hurry to start. Well, she let out thirty pound to a young man in the drapering line, and he laid it out i' Laceham goods, an' a shupercargo o' my acquinetance (not Salt) took 'em out, an' she got her eight per zent fust go off; an' now you can't hold her but she must be sendin' out carguies wi' every ship, till she's gettin' as rich as a Jew. Bucks her name is, she doesn't live i' this town. Now then, mum, if you'll please to give me the net
Here's fifteen shilling, then, for the two
But it's a shameful price
Nay, mum, you'll niver say that when you're upo' your knees i' church i' five years' time. I'm makin' you a present o' th' articles; I am, indeed. That eightpence shaves off my profits as clean as a razor. Now then, sir
if you please, I'll be glad to go and see about makin' Mr. Tom's fortin. Eh, I wish I'd got another twenty pound to lay out _my_sen; I shouldn't stay to say my Catechism afore I knowed what to do wi't
Stop a bit, Mr. Glegg
you never _will_ give me the chance o' speaking. You'll go away now, and finish everything about this business, and come back and tell me it's too late for me to speak. As if I wasn't my nephey's own aunt, and the head o' the family on his mother's side! and laid by guineas, all full weight, for him, as he'll know who to respect when I'm laid in my coffin
Well, Mrs. G., say what you mean
Well, then, I desire as nothing may be done without my knowing. I don't say as I sha'n't venture twenty pounds, if you make out as everything's right and safe. And if I do, Tom
I hope you'll allays bear it in mind and be grateful for such an aunt. I mean you to pay me interest, you know; I don't approve o' giving; we niver looked for that in _my_ family
Thank you, aunt
I prefer having the money only lent to me
Very well; that's the Dodson sperrit
briny chap
nest-egg
Philip, I have made up my mind; it is right that we should give each other up, in everything but memory. I could not see you without concealment -- stay, I know what you are going to say,-- it is other people's wrong feelings that make concealment necessary; but concealment is bad, however it may be caused. I feel that it would be bad for me, for us both. And then, if our secret were discovered, there would be nothing but misery,-- dreadful anger; and then we must part after all, and it would be harder, when we were used to seeing each other
Well, Maggie, if we must part, let us try and forget it for one half hour; let us talk together a little while, for the last time
Let us sit down in the hollow
where we stood the last time. See how the dog-roses have strewed the ground, and spread their opal petals over it
I've begun my picture of you among the Scotch firs, Maggie
so you must let me study your face a little, while you stay,-- since I am not to see it again. Please turn your head this way
I shall be sitting for my second portrait then
Will it be larger than the other
Oh yes, much larger. It is an oil-painting. You will look like a tall Hamadryad, dark and strong and noble, just issued from one of the fir-trees, when the stems are casting their afternoon shadows on the grass
You seem to think more of painting than of anything now, Philip
Perhaps I do
but I think of too many things,-- sow all sorts of seeds, and get no great harvest from any one of them. I'm cursed with susceptibility in every direction, and effective faculty in none. I care for painting and music; I care for classic literature, and mediaeval literature, and modern literature; I flutter all ways, and fly in none
But surely that is a happiness to have so many tastes,-- to enjoy so many beautiful things, when they are within your reach
It always seemed to me a sort of clever stupidity only to have one sort of talent,-- almost like a carrier-pigeon
It might be a happiness to have many tastes if I were like other men
I might get some power and distinction by mere mediocrity, as they do; at least I should get those middling satisfactions which make men contented to do without great ones. I might think society at St. Ogg's agreeable then. But nothing could make life worth the purchase-money of pain to me, but some faculty that would lift me above the dead level of provincial existence. Yes, there is one thing,-- a passion answers as well as a faculty
I understand what you mean
though I know so much less than you do. I used to think I could never bear life if it kept on being the same every day, and I must always be doing things of no consequence, and never know anything greater. But, dear Philip, I think we are only like children that some one who is wiser is taking care of. Is it not right to resign ourselves entirely, whatever may be denied us? I have found great peace in that for the last two or three years, even joy in subduing my own will
Yes, Maggie
and you are shutting yourself up in a narrow, self-delusive fanaticism, which is only a way of escaping pain by starving into dulness all the highest powers of your nature. Joy and peace are not resignation; resignation is the willing endurance of a pain that is not allayed, that you don't expect to be allayed. Stupefaction is not resignation; and it is stupefaction to remain in ignorance,-- to shut up all the avenues by which the life of your fellow-men might become known to you. I am not resigned; I am not sure that life is long enough to learn that lesson. _You_ are not resigned; you are only trying to stupefy yourself
What a dear, good brother you would have been, Philip
I think you would have made as much fuss about me, and been as pleased for me to love you, as would have satisfied even me. You would have loved me well enough to bear with me, and forgive me everything. That was what I always longed that Tom should do. I was never satisfied with a _little_ of anything. That is why it is better for me to do without earthly happiness altogether. I never felt that I had enough music,-- I wanted more instruments playing together; I wanted voices to be fuller and deeper. Do you ever sing now, Philip
Yes
every day, almost. But my voice is only middling, like everything else in me
Oh, sing me something,-- just one song. I _may_ listen to that before I go,-- something you used to sing at Lorton on a Saturday afternoon, when we had the drawing-room all to ourselves, and I put my apron over my head to listen
_I_ know
Love in her eyes sits playing
That's it, isn't it
Oh no, I won't stay
It will only haunt me. Let us walk, Philip. I must go home
Maggie
don't persist in this wilful, senseless privation. It makes me wretched to see you benumbing and cramping your nature in this way. You were so full of life when you were a child; I thought you would be a brilliant woman,-- all wit and bright imagination. And it flashes out in your face still, until you draw that veil of dull quiescence over it
Why do you speak so bitterly to me, Philip
Because I foresee it will not end well; you can never carry on this self-torture
I shall have strength given me
No, you will not, Maggie; no one has strength given to do what is unnatural. It is mere cowardice to seek safety in negations. No character becomes strong in that way. You will be thrown into the world some day, and then every rational satisfaction of your nature that you deny now will assault you like a savage appetite
Philip, how dare you shake me in this way? You are a tempter
No, I am not; but love gives insight, Maggie, and insight often gives foreboding. _Listen_ to me,-- let _me_ supply you with books; do let me see you sometimes,-- be your brother and teacher, as you said at Lorton. It is less wrong that you should see me than that you should be committing this long suicide
Do you banish me from this place forever, then, Maggie? Surely I may come and walk in it sometimes? If I meet you by chance, there is no concealment in that
Take back your _Corinne_
You were right in telling me she would do me no good; but you were wrong in thinking I should wish to be like her
Wouldn't you really like to be a tenth Muse, then, Maggie
Not at all
The Muses were uncomfortable goddesses, I think,-- obliged always to carry rolls and musical instruments about with them. If I carried a harp in this climate, you know, I must have a green baize cover for it; and I should be sure to leave it behind me by mistake
You agree with me in not liking Corinne, then
I didn't finish the book
As soon as I came to the blond-haired young lady reading in the park, I shut it up, and determined to read no further. I foresaw that that light-complexioned girl would win away all the love from Corinne and make her miserable. I'm determined to read no more books where the blond-haired women carry away all the happiness. I should begin to have a prejudice against them. If you could give me some story, now, where the dark woman triumphs, it would restore the balance. I want to avenge Rebecca and Flora MacIvor and Minna, and all the rest of the dark unhappy ones. Since you are my tutor, you ought to preserve my mind from prejudices; you are always arguing against prejudices
Well, perhaps you will avenge the dark women in your own person, and carry away all the love from your cousin Lucy. She is sure to have some handsome young man of St. Ogg's at her feet now; and you have only to shine upon him -- your fair little cousin will be quite quenched in your beams
Philip, that is not pretty of you, to apply my nonsense to anything real
As if I, with my old gowns and want of all accomplishments, could be a rival of dear little Lucy,-- who knows and does all sorts of charming things, and is ten times prettier than I am,-- even if I were odious and base enough to wish to be her rival. Besides, I never go to aunt Deane's when any one is there; it is only because dear Lucy is good, and loves me, that she comes to see me, and will have me go to see her sometimes
Maggie
it is not like you to take playfulness literally. You must have been in St. Ogg's this morning, and brought away a slight infection of dulness
Well
if you meant that for a joke, it was a poor one; but I thought it was a very good reproof. I thought you wanted to remind me that I am vain, and wish every one to admire me most. But it isn't for that that I'm jealous for the dark women,-- not because I'm dark myself; it's because I always care the most about the unhappy people. If the blond girl were forsaken, I should like _her_ best. I always take the side of the rejected lover in the stories
Then you would never have the heart to reject one yourself, should you, Maggie
I don't know
I think perhaps I could if he were very conceited; and yet, if he got extremely humiliated afterward, I should relent
I've often wondered, Maggie
whether you wouldn't really be more likely to love a man that other women were not likely to love
That would depend on what they didn't like him for
He might be very disagreeable. He might look at me through an eye-glass stuck in his eye, making a hideous face, as young Torry does. I should think other women are not fond of that; but I never felt any pity for young Torry. I've never any pity for conceited people, because I think they carry their comfort about with them
But suppose, Maggie,-- suppose it was a man who was not conceited, who felt he had nothing to be conceited about; who had been marked from childhood for a peculiar kind of suffering, and to whom you were the day-star of his life; who loved you, worshipped you, so entirely that he felt it happiness enough for him if you would let him see you at rare moments
Maggie
I was a fool to say it; forget that I've said it. I shall be contented if things can be as they were
I am so surprised, Philip; I had not thought of it
Has it made you hate me, Maggie
Do you think I'm a presumptuous fool
Oh, Philip
how can you think I have such feelings? As if I were not grateful for _any_ love. But -- but I had never thought of your being my lover. It seemed so far off -- like a dream -- only like one of the stories one imagines -- that I should ever have a lover
Then can you bear to think of me as your lover, Maggie
_Do_ you love me
I think I could hardly love any one better; there is nothing but what I love you for
But it will be better for us not to say any more about it, won't it, dear Philip? You know we couldn't even be friends, if our friendship were discovered. I have never felt that I was right in giving way about seeing you, though it has been so precious to me in some ways; and now the fear comes upon me strongly again, that it will lead to evil
But no evil has come, Maggie; and if you had been guided by that fear before, you would only have lived through another dreary, benumbing year, instead of reviving into your real self
It has been very sweet, I know,-- all the talking together, and the books, and the feeling that I had the walk to look forward to, when I could tell you the thoughts that had come into my head while I was away from you. But it has made me restless; it has made me think a great deal about the world; and I have impatient thoughts again,-- I get weary of my home; and then it cuts me to the heart afterward, that I should ever have felt weary of my father and mother. I think what you call being benumbed was better -- better for me -- for then my selfish desires were benumbed
No, Maggie, you have wrong ideas of self-conquest, as I've often told you. What you call self-conquest -- binding and deafening yourself to all but one train of impressions -- is only the culture of monomania in a nature like yours
Don't think of the past now, Maggie; think only of our love. If you can really cling to me with all your heart, every obstacle will be overcome in time; we need only wait. I can live on hope. Look at me, Maggie; tell me again it is possible for you to love me. Don't look away from me to that cloven tree; it is a bad omen
Come, Maggie, say one kind word, or else you were better to me at Lorton. You asked me if I should like you to kiss me,-- don't you remember?-- and you promised to kiss me when you met me again. You never kept the promise
You don't seem happy enough, Maggie; you are forcing yourself to say you love me, out of pity
No, Philip
I'm telling you the truth. It is all new and strange to me; but I don't think I could love any one better than I love you. I should like always to live with you -- to make you happy. I have always been happy when I have been with you. There is only one thing I will not do for your sake; I will never do anything to wound my father. You must never ask that from me
No, Maggie, I will ask nothing; I will bear everything; I'll wait another year only for a kiss, if you will only give me the first place in your heart
No
I won't make you wait so long as that
But what would your own father say, Philip? Oh, it is quite impossible we can ever be more than friends,-- brother and sister in secret, as we have been. Let us give up thinking of everything else
No, Maggie, I can't give you up,-- unless you are deceiving me; unless you really only care for me as if I were your brother. Tell me the truth
Indeed I do, Philip. What happiness have I ever had so great as being with you,-- since I was a little girl,-- the days Tom was good to me? And your mind is a sort of world to me; you can tell me all I want to know. I think I should never be tired of being with you
Then my life will be filled with hope, Maggie, and I shall be happier than other men, in spite of all? We _do_ belong to each other -- for always -- whether we are apart or together
Yes, Philip; I should like never to part; I should like to make your life very happy
I am waiting for something else. I wonder whether it will come
Come, Magsie, you come too
You look very well, my dear
I niver thought your girl 'ud be so good-looking, Bessy. But you must wear pink, my dear; that blue thing as your aunt Glegg gave you turns you into a crowflower. Jane never _was_ tasty. Why don't you wear that gown o' mine
It is so pretty and so smart, aunt. I think it's too showy for me,-- at least for my other clothes, that I must wear with it. "To be sure, it 'ud be unbecoming if it wasn't well known you've got them belonging to you as can afford to give you such things when they've done with 'em themselves. It stands to reason I must give my own niece clothes now and then,-- such things as _I_ buy every year, and never wear anything out. And as for Lucy, there's no giving to her, for she's got everything o' the choicest; sister Deane may well hold her head up,-- though she looks dreadful yallow, poor thing -- I doubt this liver complaint 'ull carry her off. That's what this new vicar, this Dr. Kenn, said in the funeral sermon to-day
Ah, he's a wonderful preacher, by all account,-- isn't he, Sophy
Why, Lucy had got a collar on this blessed day
as I don't say I haven't got as good, but I must look out my best to match it
Miss Lucy's called the bell o' St. Ogg's, they say; that's a cur'ous word
Pooh
she's a small thing, not much of a figure. But fine feathers make fine birds. I see nothing to admire so much in those diminutive women; they look silly by the side o' the men,-- out o' proportion. When I chose my wife, I chose her the right size,-- neither too little nor too big
But the men aren't _all_ big
Ah, it's poor talking about littleness and bigness,-- anybody may think it's a mercy they're straight
There's that mismade son o' Lawyer Wakem's, I saw him at church to-day. Dear, dear! to think o' the property he's like to have; and they say he's very queer and lonely, doesn't like much company. I shouldn't wonder if he goes out of his mind; for we never come along the road but he's a-scrambling out o' the trees and brambles at the Red Deeps
Eh
there goes that crooked young Wakem. I know him or his shadder as far off as I can see 'em; I'm allays lighting on him o' that side the river
I must go, Bob
I've something to attend to
Tom, how is it you are come home? Is there anything the matter
I'm come to walk with you to the Red Deeps, and meet Philip Wakem
I'm, not going
Yes, you are; but I want to speak to you first. Where is my father
Out on horseback
And my mother
In the yard, I think, with the poultry
I can go in, then, without her seeing me
Come in here
Now, Maggie, tell me this instant everything that has passed between you and Philip Wakem
Does my father know anything
No
But he _shall_ know, if you attempt to use deceit toward me any further
I don't wish to use deceit
Tell me the whole truth, then
Perhaps you know it
Never mind whether I know it or not. Tell me exactly what has happened, or my father shall know everything
I tell it for my father's sake, then
Yes, it becomes you to profess affection for your father, when you have despised his strongest feelings
You never do wrong, Tom
Not if I know it
But I have nothing to say to you beyond this: tell me what has passed between you and Philip Wakem. When did you first meet him in the Red Deeps
A year ago
You need ask me no more questions. We have been friendly a year. We have met and walked together often. He has lent me books
Is that all
No, not quite all. On Saturday he told me that he loved me. I didn't think of it before then; I had only thought of him as an old friend
And you _encouraged_ him
I told him that I loved him too
Now, then, Maggie, there are but two courses for you to take,-- either you vow solemnly to me, with your hand on my father's Bible, that you will never have another meeting or speak another word in private with Philip Wakem, or you refuse, and I tell my father everything; and this month, when by my exertions he might be made happy once more, you will cause him the blow of knowing that you are a disobedient, deceitful daughter, who throws away her own respectability by clandestine meetings with the son of a man that has helped to ruin her father. Choose
Tom
don't ask me that. I will promise you to give up all intercourse with Philip, if you will let me see him once, or even only write to him and explain everything,-- to give it up as long as it would ever cause any pain to my father. I feel something for Philip too. _He_ is not happy
I don't wish to hear anything of your feelings; I have said exactly what I mean. Choose, and quickly, lest my mother should come in
If I give you my word, that will be as strong a bond to me as if I laid my hand on the Bible. I don't require that to bind me
Do what _I_ require
I can't trust you, Maggie. There is no consistency in you. Put your hand on this Bible, and say, 'I renounce all private speech and intercourse with Philip Wakem from this time forth.' Else you will bring shame on us all, and grief on my father; and what is the use of my exerting myself and giving up everything else for the sake of paying my father's debts, if you are to bring madness and vexation on him, just when he might be easy and hold up his head once more
Oh, Tom, _will_ the debts be paid soon
If things turn out as I expect
But
while I have been contriving and working that my father may have some peace of mind before he dies,-- working for the respectability of our family,-- you have done all you can to destroy both
Tom
it was wrong of me; but I was so lonely, and I was sorry for Philip. And I think enmity and hatred are wicked
Nonsense
Your duty was clear enough. Say no more; but promise, in the words I told you
I _must_ speak to Philip once more
You will go with me now and speak to him
I give you my word not to meet him or write to him again without your knowledge. That is the only thing I will say. I will put my hand on the Bible if you like
Say it, then
Now let us go
Do you call this acting the part of a man and a gentleman, sir
What do you mean
Mean? Stand farther from me, lest I should lay hands on you, and I'll tell you what I mean. I mean, taking advantage of a young girl's foolishness and ignorance to get her to have secret meetings with you. I mean, daring to trifle with the respectability of a family that has a good and honest name to support
I deny that
I could never trifle with anything that affected your sister's happiness. She is dearer to me than she is to you; I honor her more than you can ever honor her; I would give up my life to her
Don't talk high-flown nonsense to me, sir! Do you mean to pretend that you didn't know it would be injurious to her to meet you here week after week? Do you pretend you had any right to make professions of love to her, even if you had been a fit husband for her, when neither her father nor your father would ever consent to a marriage between you? And _you_,-- _you_ to try and worm yourself into the affections of a handsome girl who is not eighteen, and has been shut out from the world by her father's misfortunes! That's your crooked notion of honor, is it? I call it base treachery; I call it taking advantage of circumstances to win what's too good for you,-- what you'd never get by fair means
It is manly of you to talk in this way to _me_
Giants have an immemorial right to stupidity and insolent abuse. You are incapable even of understanding what I feel for your sister. I feel so much for her that I could even desire to be at friendship with _you_
I should be very sorry to understand your feelings
What I wish is that you should understand _me_,-- that I shall take care of _my_ sister, and that if you dare to make the least attempt to come near her, or to write to her, or to keep the slightest hold on her mind, your puny, miserable body, that ought to have put some modesty into your mind, shall not protect you. I'll thrash you; I'll hold you up to public scorn. Who wouldn't laugh at the idea of _your_ turning lover to a fine girl
Stay, Maggie
You have dragged your sister here, I suppose, that she may stand by while you threaten and insult me. These naturally seemed to you the right means to influence me. But you are mistaken. Let your sister speak. If she says she is bound to give me up, I shall abide by her wishes to the slightest word
It was for my father's sake, Philip
Tom threatens to tell my father, and he couldn't bear it; I have promised, I have vowed solemnly, that we will not have any intercourse without my brother's knowledge
It is enough, Maggie. _I_ shall not change; but I wish you to hold yourself entirely free. But trust me; remember that I can never seek for anything but good to what belongs to you
Yes
you can talk of seeking good for her and what belongs to her now; did you seek her good before
I did,-- at some risk, perhaps. But I wished her to have a friend for life,-- who would cherish her, who would do her more justice than a coarse and narrow-minded brother, that she has always lavished her affections on
Yes, my way of befriending her is different from yours; and I'll tell you what is my way. I'll save her from disobeying and disgracing her father; I'll save her from throwing herself away on you,-- from making herself a laughing-stock,-- from being flouted by a man like _your_ father, because she's not good enough for his son. You know well enough what sort of justice and cherishing you were preparing for her. I'm not to be imposed upon by fine words; I can see what actions mean. Come away, Maggie
Don't suppose that I think you are right, Tom, or that I bow to your will. I despise the feelings you have shown in speaking to Philip; I detest your insulting, unmanly allusions to his deformity. You have been reproaching other people all your life; you have been always sure you yourself are right. It is because you have not a mind large enough to see that there is anything better than your own conduct and your own petty aims
Certainly
I don't see that your conduct is better, or your aims either. If your conduct, and Philip Wakem's conduct, has been right, why are you ashamed of its being known? Answer me that. I know what I have aimed at in my conduct, and I've succeeded; pray, what good has your conduct brought to you or any one else
I don't want to defend myself
I know I've been wrong,-- often, continually. But yet, sometimes when I have done wrong, it has been because I have feelings that you would be the better for, if you had them. If _you_ were in fault ever, if you had done anything very wrong, I should be sorry for the pain it brought you; I should not want punishment to be heaped on you. But you have always enjoyed punishing me; you have always been hard and cruel to me; even when I was a little girl, and always loved you better than any one else in the world, you would let me go crying to bed without forgiving me. You have no pity; you have no sense of your own imperfection and your own sins. It is a sin to be hard; it is not fitting for a mortal, for a Christian. You are nothing but a Pharisee. You thank God for nothing but your own virtues; you think they are great enough to win you everything else. You have not even a vision of feelings by the side of which your shining virtues are mere darkness
Well
if your feelings are so much better than mine, let me see you show them in some other way than by conduct that's likely to disgrace us all,-- than by ridiculous flights first into one extreme and then into another. Pray, how have you shown your love, that you talk of, either to me or my father? By disobeying and deceiving us. I have a different way of showing my affection
Because you are a man, Tom, and have power, and can do something in the world
Then, if you can do nothing, submit to those that can
So I _will_ submit to what I acknowledge and feel to be right. I will submit even to what is unreasonable from my father, but I will not submit to it from you. You boast of your virtues as if they purchased you a right to be cruel and unmanly, as you've been to-day. Don't suppose I would give up Philip Wakem in obedience to you. The deformity you insult would make me cling to him and care for him the more
Very well; that is your view of things
you need say no more to show me what a wide distance there is between us. Let us remember that in future, and be silent
Why, what's up now, Tom
You're a bit earlier than usual
Oh, there was nothing more for me to do, so I came away. Well, mother
Father
do you know exactly how much money there is in the tin box
Only a hundred and ninety-three pound
You've brought less o' late; but young fellows like to have their own way with their money. Though I didn't do as I liked before _I_ was of age
Are you quite sure that's the sum, father
I wish you would take the trouble to fetch the tin box down. I think you have perhaps made a mistake
How should I make a mistake
I've counted it often enough; but I can fetch it, if you won't believe me
Don't go out of the room, mother
And isn't Maggie to go
because somebody must take away the things
Just as she likes
There now! you see I was right enough
There's more nor three hundred wanting; it'll be a fine while before _I_ can save that. Losing that forty-two pound wi' the corn was a sore job. This world's been too many for me. It's took four year to lay _this_ by; it's much if I'm above ground for another four year. I must trusten to you to pay 'em
if you keep i' the same mind now you're coming o' age. But you're like enough to bury me first
No, father
you will live to see the debts all paid. You shall pay them with your own hand
A good while ago, my uncle Glegg lent me a little money to trade with, and that has answered. I have three hundred and twenty pounds in the bank
Oh, my boy, I knew you'd make iverything right again, when you got a man
Bessy, you must come and kiss me now -- the lad has made you amends. You'll see a bit o' comfort again, belike
I wish you'd brought me the money to look at, Tom
I should ha' felt surer
You shall see it to-morrow, father
My uncle Deane has appointed the creditors to meet to-morrow at the Golden Lion, and he has ordered a dinner for them at two o'clock. My uncle Glegg and he will both be there. It was advertised in the 'Messenger' on Saturday
Then Wakem knows on't
Ah
I'll get from under _his_ thumb now, though I _must_ leave the old mill. I thought I could ha' held out to die here -- but I can't ---- we've got a glass o' nothing in the house, have we, Bessy
Yes
there's some brandy sister Deane brought me when I was ill
Get it me, then; get it me. I feel a bit weak
Tom, my lad
you shall make a speech to 'em. I'll tell 'em it's you as got the best part o' the money. They'll see I'm honest at last, and ha' got an honest son. Ah! Wakem 'ud be fine and glad to have a son like mine,-- a fine straight fellowi's,-- tead o' that poor crooked creatur! You'll prosper i' the world, my lad; you'll maybe see the day when Wakem and his son 'ull be a round or two below you. You'll like enough be ta'en into partnership, as your uncle Deane was before you,-- you're in the right way for't; and then there's nothing to hinder your getting rich. And if ever you're rich enough -- mind this -- try and get th' old mill again
Shake hands wi' me, my lad
It's a great thing when a man can be proud as he's got a good son. I've had _that_ luck
What's the matter, Mr. Tulliver
Ah!-- I was dreaming -- did I make a noise?-- I thought I'd got hold of him
poor Bessy and the little wench
Tulliver
what a fool's trick you did,-- spreading those hard lumps on that Far Close! I told you how it would be; but you men never learn to farm with any method
Oh
get somebody else to farm for you, then, as'll ask _you_ to teach him
You have been drinking, I suppose
No, I've not been drinking
I want no drinking to help me make up my mind as I'll serve no longer under a scoundrel
Very well! you may leave my premises to-morrow, then; hold your insolent tongue and let me pass
No, I _sha'n't_ let you pass
I shall tell you what I think of you first. You're too big a raskill to get hanged -- you're
Let me pass, you ignorant brute, or I'll ride over you
Father, father
Get away with you -- go
Oh, Luke -- mother -- come and help Mr. Wakem
Help me on to that low horse
then I shall perhaps manage; though -- confound it -- I think this arm is sprained
You'll suffer for this, sir. Your daughter is a witness that you've assaulted me
I don't care
go and show your back, and tell 'em I thrashed you. Tell 'em I've made things a bit more even i' the world
Ride my horse home with me
By the Tofton Ferry, not through the town
Father, come in
I feel ill -- faintish
Help me in, Bessy -- I'm giddy -- I've a pain i' the head
Hadn't we better send for the doctor
Go and seek for somebody to fetch the doctor
Doctor? No -- no doctor. It's my head, that's all. Help me to bed
the old master
My boy, you must get up this minute; I've sent for the doctor, and your father wants you and Maggie to come to him
Is he worse, mother
He's been very ill all night with his head, but he doesn't say it's worse; he only said suddenly, 'Bessy, fetch the boy and girl. Tell 'em to make haste
Tom, my lad, it's come upon me as I sha'n't get up again. This world's been too many for me, my lad, but you've done what you could to make things a bit even. Shake hands wi' me again, my lad, before I go away from you
Have you any wish, father -- that I can fulfil, when
Ay, my lad -- you'll try and get the old mill back
Yes, father
And there's your mother -- you'll try and make her amends, all you can, for my bad luck -- and there's the little wench
You must take care of her, Tom -- don't you fret, my wench -- there'll come somebody as'll love you and take your part -- and you must be good to her, my lad. I was good to _my_ sister. Kiss me, Maggie.-- Come, Bessy.-- You'll manage to pay for a brick grave, Tom, so as your mother and me can lie together
I had my turn -- I beat him. That was nothing but fair. I never wanted anything but what was fair
But, father, dear father
you forgive him -- you forgive every one now
No, my wench. I don't forgive him. What's forgiving to do? I can't love a raskill
Does God forgive raskills?-- but if He does, He won't be hard wi' me
This world's -- too many -- honest man -- puzzling
This is death
My scissors, please, if you can renounce the great pleasure of persecuting my poor Minny
Confound the scissors! The oval lies the wrong way. Please draw them off for me
Draw them off with your other hand
Oh, but that's my left hand; I'm not left-handed
No, no
you shall not have my scissors again,-- you have strained them already. Now don't set Minny growling again. Sit up and behave properly, and then I will tell you some news
What is that
Is it very important news
Yes, very. Guess
You are going to change Minny's diet, and give him three ratafias soaked in a dessert-spoonful of cream daily
Quite wrong
Well, then, Dr. Kenn has been preaching against buckram, and you ladies have all been sending him a roundrobin, saying, 'This is a hard doctrine; who can bear it
For shame
It is rather dull of you not to guess my news, because it is about something I mentioned to you not very long ago
But you have mentioned many things to me not long ago. Does your feminine tyranny require that when you say the thing you mean is one of several things, I should know it immediately by that mark
Yes, I know you think I am silly
I think you are perfectly charming
And my silliness is part of my charm
I didn't say _that_
But I know you like women to be rather insipid. Philip Wakem betrayed you; he said so one day when you were not here
Oh, I know Phil is fierce on that point; he makes it quite a personal matter. I think he must be love-sick for some unknown lady,-- some exalted Beatrice whom he met abroad
By the by
it has just occurred to me that I never found out whether my cousin Maggie will object to see Philip, as her brother does. Tom will not enter a room where Philip is, if he knows it; perhaps Maggie may be the same, and then we sha'n't be able to sing our glees, shall we
What! is your cousin coming to stay with you
Yes; that was my news, which you have forgotten. She's going to leave her situation, where she has been nearly two years, poor thing,-- ever since her father's death; and she will stay with me a month or two,-- many months, I hope
And am I bound to be pleased at that news
Oh no, not at all
_I_ am pleased, but that, of course, is no reason why _you_ should be pleased. There is no girl in the world I love so well as my cousin Maggie
And you will be inseparable I suppose, when she comes. There will be no possibility of a _tete-a-tete_ with you any more, unless you can find an admirer for her, who will pair off with her occasionally. What is the ground of dislike to Philip? He might have been a resource
It is a family quarrel with Philip's father. There were very painful circumstances, I believe. I never quite understood them, or knew them all. My uncle Tulliver was unfortunate and lost all his property, and I think he considered Mr. Wakem was somehow the cause of it. Mr. Wakem bought Dorlcote Mill, my uncle's old place, where he always lived. You must remember my uncle Tulliver, don't you
No
I've always known the name, and I dare say I knew the man by sight, apart from his name. I know half the names and faces in the neighborhood in that detached, disjointed way
He was a very hot-tempered man. I remember, when I was a little girl and used to go to see my cousins, he often frightened me by talking as if he were angry. Papa told me there was a dreadful quarrel, the very day before my uncle's death, between him and Mr. Wakem, but it was hushed up. That was when you were in London. Papa says my uncle was quite mistaken in many ways; his mind had become embittered. But Tom and Maggie must naturally feel it very painful to be reminded of these things. They have had so much, so very much trouble. Maggie was at school with me six years ago, when she was fetched away because of her father's misfortunes, and she has hardly had any pleasure since, I think. She has been in a dreary situation in a school since uncle's death, because she is determined to be independent, and not live with aunt Pullet; and I could hardly wish her to come to me then, because dear mamma was ill, and everything was so sad. That is why I want her to come to me now, and have a long, long holiday
Very sweet and angelic of you
and all the more so if she has the conversational qualities of her mother
Poor aunty! You are cruel to ridicule her. She is very valuable to _me_, I know. She manages the house beautifully,-- much better than any stranger would,-- and she was a great comfort to me in mamma's illness
Yes, but in point of companionship one would prefer that she should be represented by her brandy-cherries and cream-cakes. I think with a shudder that her daughter will always be present in person, and have no agreeable proxies of that kind,-- a fat, blond girl, with round blue eyes, who will stare at us silently
Oh yes
that is just my cousin Maggie. You must have seen her
No, indeed; I'm only guessing what Mrs. Tulliver's daughter must be; and then if she is to banish Philip, our only apology for a tenor, that will be an additional bore
But I hope that may not be. I think I will ask you to call on Philip and tell him Maggie is coming to-morrow. He is quite aware of Tom's feeling, and always keeps out of his way; so he will understand, if you tell him, that I asked you to warn him not to come until I write to ask him
I think you had better write a pretty note for me to take; Phil is so sensitive, you know, the least thing might frighten him off coming at all, and we had hard work to get him. I can never induce him to come to the park; he doesn't like my sisters, I think. It is only your faery touch that can lay his ruffled feathers
But it is really odd that you should have hit so exactly on Maggie's appearance and manners
because she might have been like her brother, you know; and Tom has not round eyes; and he is as far as possible from staring at people
Oh, I suppose he is like the father; he seems to be as proud as Lucifer. Not a brilliant companion, though, I should think
I like Tom. He gave me my Minny when I lost Lolo; and papa is very fond of him: he says Tom has excellent principles. It was through him that his father was able to pay all his debts before he died
Oh, ah; I've heard about that. I heard your father and mine talking about it a little while ago, after dinner, in one of their interminable discussions about business. They think of doing something for young Tulliver; he saved them from a considerable loss by riding home in some marvellous way, like Turpin, to bring them news about the stoppage of a bank, or something of that sort. But I was rather drowsy at the time
Graceful Consort
The Creation
Come and sing this
What, 'Graceful Consort'? I don't think it suits your voice
Never mind; it exactly suits my feeling, which, Philip will have it, is the grand element of good singing. I notice men with indifferent voices are usually of that opinion
Philip burst into one of his invectives against 'The Creation' the other day
He says it has a sort of sugared complacency and flattering make-believe in it, as if it were written for the birthday _fete_ of a German Grand-Duke
Oh, pooh! He is the fallen Adam with a soured temper. We are Adam and Eve unfallen, in Paradise. Now, then,-- the recitative, for the sake of the moral. You will sing the whole duty of woman,--'And from obedience grows my pride and happiness
Oh no, I shall not respect an Adam who drags the _tempo_, as you will
With thee delight is ever new, With thee is life incessant bliss
Now for Raphael's great song
You do the 'heavy beasts' to perfection
That sounds complimentary
By Jove, it's nearly half-past one! Well, I can just sing this
Adieu, 'graceful consort
My bliss is not incessant, for I must gallop home. I promised to be there at lunch
You will not be able to call on Philip, then? It is of no consequence; I have said everything in my note
You will be engaged with your cousin to-morrow, I suppose
Yes, we are going to have a little family-party. My cousin Tom will dine with us; and poor aunty will have her two children together for the first time. It will be very pretty; I think a great deal about it
But I may come the next day
Oh yes! Come and be introduced to my cousin Maggie; though you can hardly be said not to have seen her, you have described her so well
Good-bye, then
What's the matter, then, Minny
Did you think I was going without you? Come, then, let us go and see Sinbad
the more familiar rodents
He is very clever, Maggie
I feel sure you will like him. I hope you will
I shall be very difficult to please
A gentleman who thinks he is good enough for Lucy must expect to be sharply criticised
Indeed, he's a great deal too good for me. And sometimes, when he is away, I almost think it can't really be that he loves me. But I can never doubt it when he is with me, though I couldn't bear any one but you to know that I feel in that way, Maggie
Oh, then, if I disapprove of him you can give him up, since you are not engaged
I would rather not be engaged. When people are engaged, they begin to think of being married soon
and I should like everything to go on for a long while just as it is. Sometimes I am quite frightened lest Stephen should say that he has spoken to papa; and from something that fell from papa the other day, I feel sure he and Mr. Guest are expecting that. And Stephen's sisters are very civil to me now. At first, I think they didn't like his paying me attention; and that was natural. It _does_ seem out of keeping that I should ever live in a great place like the Park House, such a little insignificant thing as I am
But people are not expected to be large in proportion to the houses they live in, like snails
Pray, are Mr. Guest's sisters giantesses
Oh no; and not handsome,-- that is, not very
But _he_ is -- at least he is generally considered very handsome
Though you are unable to share that opinion
Oh, I don't know
It is a bad plan to raise expectation; you will perhaps be disappointed. But I have prepared a charming surprise for _him;_ I shall have a glorious laugh against him. I shall not tell you what it is, though
Stand up a moment, Maggie
What is your pleasure now
I can't think what witchery it is in you, Maggie, that makes you look best in shabby clothes; though you really must have a new dress now. But do you know, last night I was trying to fancy you in a handsome, fashionable dress, and do what I would, that old limp merino would come back as the only right thing for you. I wonder if Marie Antoinette looked all the grander when her gown was darned at the elbows. Now, if _I_ were to put anything shabby on, I should be quite unnoticeable. I should be a mere rag
Oh, quite
You would be liable to be swept out of the room with the cobwebs and carpet-dust, and to find yourself under the grate, like Cinderella. Mayn't I sit down now
Yes, now you may
But you must change brooches, Maggie; that little butterfly looks silly on you
But won't that mar the charming effect of my consistent shabbiness
I wish my mother were of your opinion, for she was fretting last night because this is my best frock. I've been saving my money to pay for some lessons; I shall never get a better situation without more accomplishments
Now, don't put on that sad look again
You're forgetting that you've left that dreary schoolroom behind you, and have no little girls' clothes to mend
Yes
It is with me as I used to think it would be with the poor uneasy white bear I saw at the show. I thought he must have got so stupid with the habit of turning backward and forward in that narrow space that he would keep doing it if they set him free. One gets a bad habit of being unhappy
But I shall put you under a discipline of pleasure that will make you lose that bad habit
You dear, tiny thing
you enjoy other people's happiness so much, I believe you would do without any of your own. I wish I were like you
I've never been tried in that way
I've always been so happy. I don't know whether I could bear much trouble; I never had any but poor mamma's death. You _have_ been tried, Maggie; and I'm sure you feel for other people quite as much as I do
No, Lucy
I don't enjoy their happiness as you do, else I should be more contented. I do feel for them when they are in trouble; I don't think I could ever bear to make any one _un_happy; and yet I often hate myself, because I get angry sometimes at the sight of happy people. I think I get worse as I get older, more selfish. That seems very dreadful
Now, Maggie
I don't believe a word of that. It is all a gloomy fancy, just because you are depressed by a dull, wearisome life
Well, perhaps it is
Perhaps it comes from the school diet,-- watery rice-pudding spiced with Pinnock. Let us hope it will give way before my mother's custards and this charming Geoffrey Crayon
Sketch Book
Do I look fit to be seen with this little brooch
Oh no, Mr. Guest will be obliged to go out of the room again if he sees you in it. Pray make haste and put another on
There is one pleasure, I know, Maggie, that your deepest dismalness will never resist
That is music, and I mean you to have quite a riotous feast of it. I mean you to get up your playing again, which used to be so much better than mine, when we were at Laceham
You would have laughed to see me playing the little girls' tunes over and over to them, when I took them to practise
just for the sake of fingering the dear keys again. But I don't know whether I could play anything more difficult now than 'Begone, dull care
I know what a wild state of joy you used to be in when the glee-men came round
and we might have all those old glees that you used to love so, if I were certain that you don't feel exactly as Tom does about some things
I should have thought there was nothing you might be more certain of
I ought rather to have said, one particular thing. Because if you feel just as he does about that, we shall want our third voice. St. Ogg's is so miserably provided with musical gentlemen. There are really only Stephen and Philip Wakem who have any knowledge of music, so as to be able to sing a part
Does it hurt you to hear the name mentioned, Maggie? If it does, I will not speak of him again. I know Tom will not see him if he can avoid it
I don't feel at all as Tom does on that subject
I've always liked Philip Wakem ever since I was a little girl, and saw him at Lorton. He was so good when Tom hurt his foot
Oh, I'm so glad
Then you won't mind his coming sometimes, and we can have much more music than we could without him. I'm very fond of poor Philip, only I wish he were not so morbid about his deformity. I suppose it _is_ his deformity that makes him so sad, and sometimes bitter. It is certainly very piteous to see his poor little crooked body and pale face among great, strong people
But, Lucy
Ah, there is the door-bell. That must be Stephen
One of the things I most admire in Stephen is that he makes a greater friend of Philip than any one
Let me introduce you to my cousin, Miss Tulliver
This is Mr. Stephen Guest
I hope you perceive what a striking likeness you drew the day before yesterday
This designing cousin of yours quite deceived me, Miss Tulliver
She said you had light hair and blue eyes
Nay, it was you who said so
I only refrained from destroying your confidence in your own second-sight
I wish I could always err in the same way
and find reality so much more beautiful than my preconceptions
Now you have proved yourself equal to the occasion
and said what it was incumbent on you to say under the circumstances
and rather conceited
An alarming amount of devil there
I wish she would look at me again
I suppose all phrases of mere compliment have their turn to be true. A man is occasionally grateful when he says 'Thank you.' It's rather hard upon him that he must use the same words with which all the world declines a disagreeable invitation, don't you think so, Miss Tulliver
No
if we use common words on a great occasion, they are the more striking, because they are felt at once to have a particular meaning, like old banners, or every-day clothes, hung up in a sacred place
Then my compliment ought to be eloquent
seeing that the words were so far beneath the occasion
No compliment can be eloquent, except as an expression of indifference
Why, dear Maggie
you have always pretended that you are too fond of being admired; and now, I think, you are angry because some one ventures to admire you
Not at all
I like too well to feel that I am admired, but compliments never make me feel that
I will never pay you a compliment again, Miss Tulliver
Thank you; that will be a proof of respect
Some day next month, I believe
But your sisters are doing more for it than I am; they are to have the largest stall
Ah yes; but they carry on their manufactures in their own sitting-room, where I don't intrude on them. I see you are not addicted to the fashionable vice of fancy-work, Miss Tulliver
No
I can do nothing more difficult or more elegant than shirt-making
And your plain sewing is so beautiful, Maggie
that I think I shall beg a few specimens of you to show as fancy-work. Your exquisite sewing is quite a mystery to me, you used to dislike that sort of work so much in old days
It is a mystery easily explained, dear
Plain sewing was the only thing I could get money by, so I was obliged to try and do it well
But I can knit, Lucy
if that will be of any use for your bazaar
Oh yes, of infinite use. I shall set you to work with scarlet wool to-morrow. But your sister is the most enviable person
to have the talent of modelling. She is doing a wonderful bust of Dr. Kenn entirely from memory
Why, if she can remember to put the eyes very near together, and the corners of the mouth very far apart, the likeness can hardly fail to be striking in St. Ogg's
Now that is very wicked of you
I didn't think you would speak disrespectfully of Dr. Kenn
I say anything disrespectful of Dr. Kenn? Heaven forbid! But I am not bound to respect a libellous bust of him. I think Kenn one of the finest fellows in the world. I don't care much about the tall candlesticks he has put on the communion-table, and I shouldn't like to spoil my temper by getting up to early prayers every morning. But he's the only man I ever knew personally who seems to me to have anything of the real apostle in him,-- a man who has eight hundred a-year and is contented with deal furniture and boiled beef because he gives away two-thirds of his income. That was a very fine thing of him,-- taking into his house that poor lad Grattan, who shot his mother by accident. He sacrifices more time than a less busy man could spare, to save the poor fellow from getting into a morbid state of mind about it. He takes the lad out with him constantly, I see
That is beautiful
I never knew any one who did such things
And one admires that sort of action in Kenn all the more
because his manners in general are rather cold and severe. There's nothing sugary and maudlin about him
Oh, I think he's a perfect character
No; there I can't agree with you
Now, what fault can you point out in him
He's an Anglican
Well, those are the right views, I think
That settles the question in the abstract
but not from a parliamentary point of view. He has set the Dissenters and the Church people by the ears; and a rising senator like myself, of whose services the country is very much in need, will find it inconvenient when he puts up for the honor of representing St. Ogg's in Parliament
Do you really think of that
Decidedly, whenever old Mr. Leyburn's public spirit and gout induce him to give way. My father's heart is set on it; and gifts like mine, you know
gifts like mine involve great responsibilities. Don't you think so, Miss Tulliver
Yes
so much fluency and self-possession should not be wasted entirely on private occasions
Ah, I see how much penetration you have
You have discovered already that I am talkative and impudent. Now superficial people never discern that, owing to my manner, I suppose
She doesn't look at me when I talk of myself
I must try other subjects
Life of Cowper
I will bring you the book, shall I, Miss Tulliver
There are many illustrations in it that you will like to see
Oh, thank you
No, no
I must forbid your plunging Maggie in books. I shall never get her away from them; and I want her to have delicious do-nothing days, filled with boating and chatting and riding and driving; that is the holiday she needs
Apropos
Shall we go out for a row on the river now? The tide will suit for us to the Tofton way, and we can walk back
I'll call and beat him up to-morrow
and bring him with me in the evening, shall I? My sisters will want to call on you when I tell them your cousin is with you. I must leave the field clear for them in the morning
Oh yes, pray bring him
And you _will_ like Maggie, sha'n't you
Isn't she a dear, noble-looking creature
Too tall
and a little too fiery. She is not my type of woman, you know
I shall not be satisfied until I can manage both oars, and row you and Lucy
You have not hurt yourself at all, I hope
And pray bring with you the volume of Purcell that you took away
I want Maggie to hear your best songs
But she's so much broader across the shoulders than I am, it's very ill-convenient
else she might wear that beautiful black brocade o' mine without any alteration; and her arms are beyond everything
She'd never get my sleeves on
Oh, never mind that, aunt; send us the dress
I don't mean Maggie to have long sleeves, and I have abundance of black lace for trimming. Her arms will look beautiful
Maggie's arms _are_ a pretty shape
They're like mine used to be, only mine was never brown; I wish she'd had _our_ family skin
Nonsense, aunty
you don't understand those things. A painter would think Maggie's complexion beautiful
Maybe, my dear
You know better than I do. Only when I was young a brown skin wasn't thought well on among respectable folks
No
Though there was a song about the 'Nut-brown Maid' too; I think she was crazy,-- crazy Kate,-- but I can't justly remember
Oh dear, dear
I think that will be the end of _my_ brown skin, if it is always to be talked about so much
Why, Maggie, you naughty child, haven't you begun to undress
I promised not to come and talk to you, because I thought you must be tired. But here you are, looking as if you were ready to dress for a ball. Come, come, get on your dressing-gown and unplait your hair
Well, _you_ are not very forward
Oh, I have not much to do. I shall sit down and talk to you till I see you are really on the way to bed
You really _have_ enjoyed the music to-night, haven't you Maggie
Oh yes, that is what prevented me from feeling sleepy. I think I should have no other mortal wants, if I could always have plenty of music. It seems to infuse strength into my limbs, and ideas into my brain. Life seems to go on without effort, when I am filled with music. At other times one is conscious of carrying a weight
And Stephen has a splendid voice, hasn't he
Well, perhaps we are neither of us judges of that
You are not impartial, and _I_ think any barrel-organ splendid
But tell me what you think of him, now. Tell me exactly; good and bad too
Oh, I think you should humiliate him a little. A lover should not be so much at ease, and so self-confident. He ought to tremble more
Nonsense, Maggie! As if any one could tremble at me! You think he is conceited, I see that. But you don't dislike him, do you
Dislike him! No. Am I in the habit of seeing such charming people, that I should be very difficult to please? Besides, how could I dislike any one that promised to make you happy, my dear thing
We shall have more music to-morrow evening
for Stephen will bring Philip Wakem with him
Oh, Lucy, I can't see him
At least, I could not see him without Tom's leave
Is Tom such a tyrant as that
I'll take the responsibility, then,-- tell him it was my fault
But, dear
I promised Tom very solemnly, before my father's death,-- I promised him I would not speak to Philip without his knowledge and consent. And I have a great dread of opening the subject with Tom,-- of getting into a quarrel with him again
But I never heard of anything so strange and unreasonable. What harm can poor Philip have done? May I speak to Tom about it
Oh no, pray don't, dear
I'll go to him myself to-morrow, and tell him that you wish Philip to come. I've thought before of asking him to absolve me from my promise, but I've not had the courage to determine on it
Maggie, you have secrets from me, and I have none from you
I _should_ like to tell you about Philip. But, Lucy, you must not betray that you know it to any one -- least of all to Philip himself, or to Mr. Stephen Guest
There, Lucy, you have had my story
You see I am like Sir Andrew Aguecheek. _I_ was adored once
Ah, now I see how it is you know Shakespeare and everything, and have learned so much since you left school; which always seemed to me witchcraft before,-- part of your general uncanniness
It is very beautiful that you should love Philip; I never thought such a happiness would befall him. And in my opinion, you ought not to give him up. There are obstacles now; but they may be done away with in time
Yes, yes
I can't help being hopeful about it. There is something romantic in it,-- out of the common way,-- just what everything that happens to you ought to be. And Philip will adore you like a husband in a fairy tale. Oh, I shall puzzle my small brain to contrive some plot that will bring everybody into the right mind, so that you may marry Philip when I marry -- somebody else. Wouldn't that be a pretty ending to all my poor, poor Maggie's troubles
Ah, dear, you are cold
You must go to bed; and so must I. I dare not think what time it is
pleasure-boats
Is my brother at home
Eh, mother, mother -- tell Bob!-- it's Miss Maggie! Come in, Miss, for goodness do
home
If you please to take the privilege o' sitting down, Miss
Bob is at home, then
Yes, Miss; but I think he must be washing and dressing himself; I'll go and see
How do you do, Bob
I always meant to pay your wife a visit, and I shall come another day on purpose for that, if she will let me. But I was obliged to come to-day to speak to my brother
He'll be in before long, Miss. He's doin' finely, Mr. Tom is; he'll be one o' the first men hereabouts,-- you'll see that
Well, Bob, I'm sure he'll be indebted to you, whatever he becomes; he said so himself only the other night, when he was talking of you
Eh, Miss, that's his way o' takin' it. But I think the more on't when he says a thing, because his tongue doesn't overshoot him as mine does. Lors! I'm no better nor a tilted bottle, I ar'n't,-- I can't stop mysen when once I begin. But you look rarely, Miss; it does me good to see you. What do you say now, Prissy
Isn't it all come true as I said? Though there isn't many sorts o' goods as I can't over-praise when I set my tongue to't
I'd looked forrard like aenything to seein' you, Miss, for my husband's tongue's been runnin' on you, like as if he was light-headed, iver since first he come a-courtin' on me
Well, well
Go an' see after the taters, else Mr. Tom 'ull have to wait for 'em
I hope Mumps is friendly with Mrs. Jakin, Bob
I remember you used to say he wouldn't like your marrying
Eh, Miss
he made up his mind to't when he see'd what a little un she was. He pretends not to see her mostly, or else to think as she isn't full-growed. But about Mr. Tom, Miss
he's as close as a iron biler, he is; but I'm a 'cutish chap, an' when I've left off carrying my pack, an' am at a loose end, I've got more brains nor I know what to do wi', an' I'm forced to busy myself wi' other folks's insides. An' it worrets me as Mr. Tom'll sit by himself so glumpish, a-knittin' his brow, an' a-lookin' at the fire of a night. He should be a bit livelier now, a fine young fellow like him. My wife says, when she goes in sometimes, an' he takes no notice of her, he sits lookin' into the fire, and frownin' as if he was watchin' folks at work in it
He thinks so much about business
Ay
but do you think it's nothin' else, Miss? He's close, Mr. Tom is; but I'm a 'cute chap, I am, an' I thought tow'rt last Christmas as I'd found out a soft place in him. It was about a little black spaniel -- a rare bit o' breed -- as he made a fuss to get. But since then summat's come over him, as he's set his teeth again' things more nor iver, for all he's had such good luck. An' I wanted to tell _you_, Miss, 'cause I thought you might work it out of him a bit, now you're come. He's a deal too lonely, and doesn't go into company enough
I'm afraid I have very little power over him, Bob
Here's Mr. Tom
There is no time to spare, Tom
I must tell you at once what I came about, else I shall be hindering you from taking your dinner
What is it
I want you to absolve me from my promise about Philip Wakem. Or rather, I promised you not to see him without telling you. I am come to tell you that I wish to see him
Very well
Not for myself, dear Tom. Don't be angry. I shouldn't have asked it, only that Philip, you know, is a friend of Lucy's and she wishes him to come, has invited him to come this evening; and I told her I couldn't see him without telling you. I shall only see him in the presence of other people. There will never be anything secret between us again
You know what is my feeling on that subject, Maggie. There is no need for my repeating anything I said a year ago. While my father was living, I felt bound to use the utmost power over you, to prevent you from disgracing him as well as yourself, and all of us. But now I must leave you to your own choice. You wish to be independent; you told me so after my father's death. My opinion is not changed. If you think of Philip Wakem as a lover again, you must give up me
I don't wish it, dear Tom, at least as things are; I see that it would lead to misery. But I shall soon go away to another situation, and I should like to be friends with him again while I am here. Lucy wishes it
I shouldn't mind your seeing him occasionally at my uncle's -- I don't want you to make a fuss on the subject. But I have no confidence in you, Maggie. You would be led away to do anything
Why will you say that, Tom? It is very hard of you. Have I not done and borne everything as well as I could? And I kept my word to you -- when -- when ---- My life has not been a happy one, any more than yours
Now listen to me, Maggie. I'll tell you what I mean. You're always in extremes; you have no judgment and self-command; and yet you think you know best, and will not submit to be guided. You know I didn't wish you to take a situation. My aunt Pullet was willing to give you a good home, and you might have lived respectably amongst your relations, until I could have provided a home for you with my mother. And that is what I should like to do. I wished my sister to be a lady, and I always have taken care of you, as my father desired, until you were well married. But your ideas and mine never accord, and you will not give way. Yet you might have sense enough to see that a brother, who goes out into the world and mixes with men, necessarily knows better what is right and respectable for his sister than she can know herself. You think I am not kind; but my kindness can only be directed by what I believe to be good for you
Yes, I know, dear Tom
I know you would do a great deal for me; I know how you work, and don't spare yourself. I am grateful to you. But, indeed, you can't quite judge for me; our natures are very different. You don't know how differently things affect me from what they do you
Yes, I _do_ know; I know it too well. I know how differently you must feel about all that affects our family, and your own dignity as a young woman, before you could think of receiving secret addresses from Philip Wakem. If it was not disgusting to me in every other way, I should object to my sister's name being associated for a moment with that of a young man whose father must hate the very thought of us all, and would spurn you. With any one but you, I should think it quite certain that what you witnessed just before my father's death would secure you from ever thinking again of Philip Wakem as a lover. But I don't feel certain of it with you; I never feel certain about anything with _you_. At one time you take pleasure in a sort of perverse self-denial, and at another you have not resolution to resist a thing that you know to be wrong
I can't make you think better of me, Tom, by anything I can say. But I am not so shut out from all your feelings as you believe me to be. I see as well as you do that from our position with regard to Philip's father -- not on other grounds -- it would be unreasonable, it would be wrong, for us to entertain the idea of marriage; and I have given up thinking of him as a lover. I am telling you the truth, and you have no right to disbelieve me; I have kept my word to you, and you have never detected me in a falsehood. I should not only not encourage, I should carefully avoid, any intercourse with Philip on any other footing than of quiet friendship. You may think that I am unable to keep my resolutions; but at least you ought not to treat me with hard contempt on the ground of faults that I have not committed yet
Well, Maggie
I don't want to overstrain matters. I think, all things considered, it will be best for you to see Philip Wakem, if Lucy wishes him to come to the house. I believe what you say,-- at least you believe it yourself, I know; I can only warn you. I wish to be as good a brother to you as you will let me
Dear Tom, I know you mean to be good. I know you have had a great deal to bear, and have done a great deal. I should like to be a comfort to you, not to vex you. You don't think I'm altogether naughty, now, do you
No, Maggie
I may turn out better than you expect
I hope you will
And may I come some day and make tea for you, and see this extremely small wife of Bob's again
Yes; but trot away now, for I've no more time to spare
Not to give me a kiss
There! Be a good girl. I've got a great deal to think of to-day. I'm going to have a long consultation with my uncle Deane this afternoon
You'll come to aunt Glegg's to-morrow? We're going all to dine early, that we may go there to tea. You _must_ come; Lucy told me to say so
Oh, pooh! I've plenty else to do
I'm frightened; I shall run away
And now we've settled this Newcastle business, Tom
there's another matter I want to talk to you about. Since you're likely to have rather a smoky, unpleasant time of it at Newcastle for the next few weeks, you'll want a good prospect of some sort to keep up your spirits
You see, Tom
the world goes on at a smarter pace now than it did when I was a young fellow. Why, sir, forty years ago, when I was much such a strapping youngster as you, a man expected to pull between the shafts the best part of his life, before he got the whip in his hand. The looms went slowish, and fashions didn't alter quite so fast; I'd a best suit that lasted me six years. Everything was on a lower scale, sir,-- in point of expenditure, I mean. It's this steam, you see, that has made the difference; it drives on every wheel double pace, and the wheel of fortune along with 'em, as our Mr. Stephen Guest said at the anniversary dinner (he hits these things off wonderfully, considering he's seen nothing of business). I don't find fault with the change, as some people do. Trade, sir, opens a man's eyes; and if the population is to get thicker upon the ground, as it's doing, the world must use its wits at inventions of one sort or other. I know I've done my share as an ordinary man of business. Somebody has said it's a fine thing to make two ears of corn grow where only one grew before; but, sir, it's a fine thing, too, to further the exchange of commodities, and bring the grains of corn to the mouths that are hungry. And that's our line of business; and I consider it as honorable a position as a man can hold, to be connected with it
Let me see,-- it's going on for seven years now since you applied to me for a situation, eh, Tom
Yes, sir; I'm three-and-twenty now
Ah, it's as well not to say that, though; for you'd pass for a good deal older, and age tells well in business. I remember your coming very well; I remember I saw there was some pluck in you, and that was what made me give you encouragement. And I'm happy to say I was right; I'm not often deceived. I was naturally a little shy at pushing my nephew, but I'm happy to say you've done me credit, sir; and if I'd had a son o' my own, I shouldn't have been sorry to see him like you
No, I shouldn't have been sorry to see him like you
I'm very glad I've given you satisfaction, sir; I've done my best
Yes, Tom, you've given me satisfaction. I don't speak of your conduct as a son; though that weighs with me in my opinion of you. But what I have to do with, as a partner in our firm, is the qualities you've shown as a man o' business. Ours is a fine business,-- a splendid concern, sir,-- and there's no reason why it shouldn't go on growing; there's a growing capital, and growing outlets for it; but there's another thing that's wanted for the prosperity of every concern, large or small, and that's men to conduct it,-- men of the right habits; none o' your flashy fellows, but such as are to be depended on. Now this is what Mr. Guest and I see clear enough. Three years ago we took Gell into the concern; we gave him a share in the oil-mill. And why? Why, because Gell was a fellow whose services were worth a premium. So it will always be, sir. So it was with me. And though Gell is pretty near ten years older than you, there are other points in your favor
It stands to reason
that your being my nephew weighs in your favor; but I don't deny that if you'd been no relation of mine at all, your conduct in that affair of Pelley's bank would have led Mr. Guest and myself to make some acknowledgment of the service you've been to us; and, backed by your general conduct and business ability, it has made us determine on giving you a share in the business,-- a share which we shall be glad to increase as the years go on. We think that'll be better, on all grounds, than raising your salary. It'll give you more importance, and prepare you better for taking some of the anxiety off my shoulders by and by. I'm equal to a good deal o' work at present, thank God; but I'm getting older,-- there's no denying that. I told Mr. Guest I would open the subject to you; and when you come back from this northern business, we can go into particulars. This is a great stride for a young fellow of three-and-twenty, but I'm bound to say you've deserved it
I'm very grateful to Mr. Guest and you, sir; of course I feel the most indebted to _you_, who first took me into the business, and have taken a good deal of pains with me since
Yes, yes
I don't spare pains when I see they'll be of any use. I gave myself some trouble with Gell, else he wouldn't have been what he is
But there's one thing I should like to mention to you uncle. I've never spoken to you of it before. If you remember, at the time my father's property was sold, there was some thought of your firm buying the Mill; I know you thought it would be a very good investment, especially if steam were applied
To be sure, to be sure. But Wakem outbid us; he'd made up his mind to that. He's rather fond of carrying everything over other people's heads
Perhaps it's of no use my mentioning it at present
but I wish you to know what I have in my mind about the Mill. I've a strong feeling about it. It was my father's dying wish that I should try and get it back again whenever I could; it was in his family for five generations. I promised my father; and besides that, I'm attached to the place. I shall never like any other so well. And if it should ever suit your views to buy it for the firm, I should have a better chance of fulfilling my father's wish. I shouldn't have liked to mention the thing to you, only you've been kind enough to say my services have been of some value. And I'd give up a much greater chance in life for the sake of having the Mill again,-- I mean having it in my own hands, and gradually working off the price
I see, I see
the thing would be possible if there were any chance of Wakem's parting with the property. But that I_don't _ see. He's put that young Jetsome in the place; and he had his reasons when he bought it, I'll be bound
He's a loose fish, that young Jetsome
He's taking to drinking, and they say he's letting the business go down. Luke told me about it,-- our old miller. He says he sha'n't stay unless there's an alteration. I was thinking, if things went on that way, Wakem might be more willing to part with the Mill. Luke says he's getting very sour about the way things are going on
Well, I'll turn it over, Tom. I must inquire into the matter, and go into it with Mr. Guest. But, you see, it's rather striking out a new branch, and putting you to that, instead of keeping you where you are, which was what we'd wanted
I should be able to manage more than the Mill when things were once set properly going, sir. I want to have plenty of work. There's nothing else I care about much
Pooh, pooh! you'll be having a wife to care about one of these days, if you get on at this pace in the world. But as to this Mill, we mustn't reckon on our chickens too early. However, I promise you to bear it in mind, and when you come back we'll talk of it again. I am going to dinner now. Come and breakfast with us to-morrow morning, and say good-bye to your mother and sister before you start
That cousin of Miss Deane's looked so very well
Character
character is destiny
To what does all this tend
respect for the understandings of men
Here is another of the moral results of this idiotic bazaar
taking young ladies from the duties of the domestic hearth into scenes of dissipation among urn-rugs and embroidered reticules! I should like to know what is the proper function of women, if it is not to make reasons for husbands to stay at home, and still stronger reasons for bachelors to go out. If this goes on much longer, the bonds of society will be dissolved
Well, it will not go on much longer
for the bazaar is to take place on Monday week
Thank Heaven
Kenn himself said the other day that he didn't like this plan of making vanity do the work of charity; but just as the British public is not reasonable enough to bear direct taxation, so St. Ogg's has not got force of motive enough to build and endow schools without calling in the force of folly
Did he say so
I never heard him say anything of that kind; I thought he approved of what we were doing
I'm sure he approves _you_
your conduct in going out to-night looks vicious, I own, but I know there is benevolence at the bottom of it
Oh, you think too well of me
You are surprised to see me again, Miss Tulliver; I ought to apologize for coming upon you by surprise, but I wanted to come into the town, and I got our man to row me; so I thought I would bring these things from the 'Maid of Artois' for your cousin; I forgot them this morning. Will you give them to her
Yes
Well, you pampered minion
We shall have a splendid sunset, I think; sha'n't you go out and see it
I don't know
if I'm not playing cribbage with my uncle
Do you like sitting alone
Would it be quite civil to say've s'
It _was_ rather a dangerous question for an intruder to ask
But you will have more than half an hour to yourself after I am gone
I know Mr. Deane never comes in till half-past seven
I wish Lucy had not been obliged to go out. We lose our music
We shall have a new voice to-morrow night
Will you tell your cousin that our friend Philip Wakem is come back? I saw him as I went home
Good-bye
Won't you stay
No, thank you
The boat is waiting for me. You'll tell your cousin
Yes
That I brought the music, I mean
Yes
And that Philip is come back
Yes
Won't you come out a little way into the garden
No
Do take my arm
Take care of this step
Oh, I will go in now
Good-evening
Oh, Philip, Philip, I wish we were together again -- so quietly -- in the Red Deeps
Stephen will come earlier this morning, I know
he always does when it's rainy
This was very good and virtuous of you
to come so soon after your arrival. And as it is, I think I will pardon you for running away in an inopportune manner, and giving your friends no notice. Come and sit down here
and you shall find yourself treated mercifully
You will never govern well, Miss Deane
because no one will ever believe in your severity. People will always encourage themselves in misdemeanors by the certainty that you will be indulgent
I am having a great holiday, am I not
Lucy is like a fairy godmother; she has turned me from a drudge into a princess in no time. I do nothing but indulge myself all day long, and she always finds out what I want before I know it myself
I am sure she is the happier for having you, then
You must be better than a whole menagerie of pets to her. And you look well. You are benefiting by the change
I told my brother I wished to see you, Philip; I asked him to release me from my promise, and he consented
Then we can at least be friends, Maggie? There is nothing to hinder that now
Will not your father object
I should not give you up on any ground but your own wish, Maggie
There are points on which I should always resist my father, as I used to tell you. _That_ is one
Then there is nothing to hinder our being friends, Philip,-- seeing each other and talking to each other while I am here; I shall soon go away again. I mean to go very soon, to a new situation
Is that inevitable, Maggie
Yes; I must not stay here long. It would unfit me for the life I must begin again at last. I can't live in dependence,-- I can't live with my brother, though he is very good to me. He would like to provide for me; but that would be intolerable to me
Is there no other alternative, Maggie? Is that life, away from those who love you, the only one you will allow yourself to look forward to
Yes, Philip
At least, as things are; I don't know what may be in years to come. But I begin to think there can never come much happiness to me from loving; I have always had so much pain mingled with it. I wish I could make myself a world outside it, as men do
Now you are returning to your old thought in a new form, Maggie,-- the thought I used to combat
You want to find out a mode of renunciation that will be an escape from pain. I tell you again, there is no such escape possible except by perverting or mutilating one's nature. What would become of me, if I tried to escape from pain? Scorn and cynicism would be my only opium; unless I could fall into some kind of conceited madness, and fancy myself a favorite of Heaven because I am not a favorite with men
Yes, Philip
you are right, I know. I do always think too much of my own feelings, and not enough of others',-- not enough of yours. I had need have you always to find fault with me and teach me; so many things have come true that you used to tell me
What is the matter, Maggie? Has something happened
No, nothing
Nothing
except in my own mind. You used to say I should feel the effect of my starved life, as you called it; and I do. I am too eager in my enjoyment of music and all luxuries, now they are come to me
Oh, what a startling announcement
I wonder where Lucy is
Well, old fellow
it's glorious to have you back again; only I wish you'd conduct yourself a little less like a sparrow with a residence on the house-top, and not go in and out constantly without letting the servants know. This is about the twentieth time I've had to scamper up those countless stairs to that painting-room of yours, all to no purpose, because your people thought you were at home. Such incidents embitter friendship
I've so few visitors, it seems hardly worth while to leave notice of my exit and entrances
Are you quite well this morning, Miss Tulliver
Quite well, thank you
Maggie is not the sort of woman Stephen admires, and she is irritated by something in him which she interprets as conceit
Maggie and Philip are not looking happy
this first interview has been saddening to them
I think we people who have not been galloping
are all a little damped by the rain. Let us have some music. We ought to take advantage of having Philip and you together. Give us the duet in 'Masaniello'; Maggie has not heard that, and I know it will suit her
Come, then
brum-brum
You, please, Philip,-- you play the accompaniment
and then I can go on with my work. You _will_ like to play, sha'n't you
Oh, yes
it is a way of eking out one's imperfect life and being three people at once,-- to sing and make the piano sing, and hear them both all the while,-- or else to sing and paint
Ah, there you are an enviable fellow. I can do nothing with my hands
That has generally been observed in men of great administrative capacity, I believe,-- a tendency to predominance of the reflective powers in me! Haven't you observed that, Miss Tulliver
I _have_ observed a tendency to predominance
Come, come
music, music! We will discuss each other's qualities another time
More, more
Something spirited again. Maggie always says she likes a great rush of sound
It must be 'Let us take the road,' then
so suitable for a wet morning. But are you prepared to abandon the most sacred duties of life, and come and sing with us
Oh, yes
If you will look out the 'Beggar's Opera' from the large canterbury. It has a dingy cover
That is a great clue, considering there are about a score covers here of rival dinginess
Oh, play something the while, Philip
What is that you are falling into?-- something delicious that I don't know
Don't you know that
It's from the 'Sonnambula'--'Ah! perche non posso odiarti.' I don't know the opera, but it appears the tenor is telling the heroine that he shall always love her though she may forsake him. You've heard me sing it to the English words, 'I love thee still
That's the way with you tenors
You demoralize the fair sex by warbling your sentimental love and constancy under all sorts of vile treatment. Nothing short of having your heads served up in a dish like that mediaeval tenor or troubadour, would prevent you from expressing your entire resignation. I must administer an antidote, while Miss Deane prepares to tear herself away from her bobbins
Shall I, wasting in despair, Die because a woman's fair
Let us take the road
The Tempest
Ah, Mr. Philip
I've not seen you for a long while. Your father's not at home, I think, is he? I went after him to the office the other day, and they said he was out of town
He's been to Mudport on business for several days
but he's come back now
As fond of his farming hobby as ever, eh
I believe so
Ah
he's got some land in his own hands on this side the river as well as the other, I think
Yes, he has
Ah
he must find farming a heavy item,-- an expensive hobby. I never had a hobby myself, never would give in to that. And the worst of all hobbies are those that people think they can get money at. They shoot their money down like corn out of a sack then
You don't want to go to sleep yet, papa, _do_ you
Not yet
But what do _you_ want
to coax some more sovereigns out of my pocket for your bazaar? Eh
No, I have no base motives at all to-day. I only want to talk, not to beg. I want to know what made you ask Philip Wakem about his father's farming to-day, papa? It seemed rather odd, because you never hardly say anything to him about his father; and why should you care about Mr. Wakem's losing money by his hobby
Something to do with business
But, papa, you always say Mr. Wakem has brought Philip up like a girl; how came you to think you should get any business knowledge out of him? Those abrupt questions sounded rather oddly. Philip thought them queer
Nonsense, child
There's a report that Wakem's mill and farm on the other side of the river -- Dorlcote Mill, your uncle Tulliver's, you know -- isn't answering so well as it did. I wanted to see if your friend Philip would let anything out about his father's being tired of farming
Why? Would you buy the mill, papa, if he would part with it
Oh, tell me everything; here, you shall have your snuff-box if you'll tell me. Because Maggie says all their hearts are set on Tom's getting back the mill some time. It was one of the last things her father said to Tom, that he must get back the mill
Hush, you little puss
You must not say a word about this thing; do you hear? There's very little chance of their getting the mill or of anybody's getting it out of Wakem's hands. And if he knew that we wanted it with a view to the Tulliver's getting it again, he'd be the less likely to part with it. It's natural, after what happened. He behaved well enough to Tulliver before; but a horsewhipping is not likely to be paid for with sugar-plums
Now, papa
will you trust me? You must not ask me all my reasons for what I'm going to say, but I have very strong reasons. And I'm very cautious; I am, indeed
Well, let us hear
Why, I believe, if you will let me take Philip Wakem into our confidence,-- let me tell him all about your wish to buy, and what it's for; that my cousins wish to have it, and why they wish to have it,-- I believe Philip would help to bring it about. I know he would desire to do it
I don't see how that can be, child
Why should _he_ care
You don't think the poor lad's fond of you, and so you can make him do what you like
No, papa; he cares very little about me,-- not so much as I care about him. But I have a reason for being quite sure of what I say. Don't you ask me. And if you ever guess, don't tell me. Only give me leave to do as I think fit about it
Are you sure you won't do mischief, now
Yes, papa, quite sure. I'm very wise; I've got all your business talents. Didn't you admire my accompt-book, now, when I showed it you
Well, well, if this youngster will keep his counsel, there won't be much harm done. And to tell the truth, I think there's not much chance for us any other way. Now, let me go off to sleep
Father, will you come up into my sanctum, and look at my new sketches? I've arranged them now
I'm getting terrible stiff in the joints, Phil, for climbing those stairs of yours
But come along, then
This is a nice place for you, isn't it, Phil?-- a capital light that from the roof, eh
Come, come
you've got a famous show here. Upon my word, I don't see that your things aren't as good as that London artist's -- what's his name -- that Leyburn gave so much money for
Bless me! what have you here
I thought you'd left off figures. Who are these
They are the same person
at different ages
And what person
Miss Tulliver. The small one is something like what she was when I was at school with her brother at King's Lorton; the larger one is not quite so good a likeness of what she was when I came from abroad
And do you mean to say, then, that you have had any acquaintance with her since you came from abroad
Yes; I saw a great deal of her for a whole year before her father's death. We met often in that thicket -- the Red Deeps -- near Dorlcote Mill. I love her dearly; I shall never love any other woman. I have thought of her ever since she was a little girl
Go on, sir! And you have corresponded with her all this while
No. I never told her I loved her till just before we parted, and she promised her brother not to see me again or to correspond with me. I am not sure that she loves me or would consent to marry me. But if she would consent,-- if she _did_ love me well enough,-- I should marry her
And this is the return you make me for all the indulgences I've heaped on you
No, father
I don't regard it as a return. You have been an indulgent father to me; but I have always felt that it was because you had an affectionate wish to give me as much happiness as my unfortunate lot would admit, not that it was a debt you expected me to pay by sacrificing all my chances of happiness to satisfy feelings of yours which I can never share
I think most sons would share their father's feelings in this case
The girl's father was an ignorant mad brute, who was within an inch of murdering me. The whole town knows it. And the brother is just as insolent, only in a cooler way. He forbade her seeing you, you say; he'll break every bone in your body, for your greater happiness, if you don't take care. But you seem to have made up your mind; you have counted the consequences, I suppose. Of course you are independent of me; you can marry this girl to-morrow, if you like; you are a man of five-and-twenty,-- you can go your way, and I can go mine. We need have no more to do with each other
No; I can't marry Miss Tulliver, even if she would have me, if I have only my own resources to maintain her with. I have been brought up to no profession. I can't offer her poverty as well as deformity
Ah, _there_ is a reason for your clinging to me, doubtless
I expected all this
I know these scenes are often happening between father and son. If I were like other men of my age, I might answer your angry words by still angrier; we might part; I should marry the woman I love, and have a chance of being as happy as the rest. But if it will be a satisfaction to you to annihilate the very object of everything you've done for me, you have an advantage over most fathers; you can completely deprive me of the only thing that would make my life worth having
You know best what satisfaction you would have, beyond that of gratifying a ridiculous rancor worthy only of wandering savages
Ridiculous rancor
What do you mean? Damn it! is a man to be horsewhipped by a boor and love him for it? Besides, there's that cold, proud devil of a son, who said a word to me I shall not forget when we had the settling. He would be as pleasant a mark for a bullet as I know, if he were worth the expense
I don't mean your resentment toward them
though a feeling of revenge is not worth much, that you should care to keep it. I mean your extending the enmity to a helpless girl, who has too much sense and goodness to share their narrow prejudices. _She_ has never entered into the family quarrels
What does that signify? We don't ask what a woman does; we ask whom she belongs to. It's altogether a degrading thing to you, to think of marrying old Tulliver's daughter
Miss Tulliver
has the only grounds of rank that anything but vulgar folly can suppose to belong to the middle class; she is thoroughly refined, and her friends, whatever else they may be, are respected for irreproachable honor and integrity. All St. Ogg's, I fancy, would pronounce her to be more than my equal
Find a single person in St. Ogg's who will not tell you that a beautiful creature like her would be throwing herself away on a pitiable object like me
Not she
It would be a deuced fine match for her. It's all stuff about an accidental deformity, when a girl's really attached to a man
But girls are not apt to get attached under those circumstances
Well, then
if she doesn't care for you, you might have spared yourself the trouble of talking to me about her, and you might have spared me the trouble of refusing my consent to what was never likely to happen
Sit still. I'd rather walk about
But this girl seems to have been fond of you, Phil, else she wouldn't have met you in that way
She liked me at King's Lorton, when she was a little girl, because I used to sit with her brother a great deal when he had hurt his foot. She had kept that in her memory, and thought of me as a friend of a long while ago. She didn't think of me as a lover when she met me
Well, but you made love to her at last. What did she say then
She said she _did_ love me then
Confound it, then; what else do you want? Is she a jilt
She was very young then
I'm afraid she hardly knew what she felt. I'm afraid our long separation, and the idea that events must always divide us, may have made a difference
But she's in the town. I've seen her at church. Haven't you spoken to her since you came back
Yes, at Mr. Deane's. But I couldn't renew my proposals to her on several grounds. One obstacle would be removed if you would give your consent,-- if you would be willing to think of her as a daughter-in-law
She's not the sort of woman your mother was, though, Phil
I saw her at church,-- she's handsomer than this,-- deuced fine eyes and fine figure, I saw; but rather dangerous and unmanageable, eh
She's very tender and affectionate, and so simple,-- without the airs and petty contrivances other women have
Ah
But your mother looked gentler; she had that brown wavy hair and gray eyes, like yours. You can't remember her very well. It was a thousand pities I'd no likeness of her
Then, shouldn't you be glad for me to have the same sort of happiness, father, to sweeten my life for me? There can never be another tie so strong to you as that which began eight-and-twenty years ago, when you married my mother, and you have been tightening it ever since
Ah, Phil, you're the only fellow that knows the best of me
We must keep together if we can. And now, what am I to do? You must come downstairs and tell me. Am I to go and call on this dark-eyed damsel
_I_ don't care about the mill
I've had an infernal deal of bother lately about the mill. Let them pay me for my improvements, that's all. But there's one thing you needn't ask me. I shall have no direct transactions with young Tulliver. If you like to swallow him for his sister's sake, you may; but I've no sauce that will make him go down
Guest is a great coxcomb
but then he is a privileged person in St. Ogg's -- he carries all before him; if another fellow did such things, everybody would say he made a fool of himself
See, now; all the things of Maggie's knitting will be gone, and you will not have bought one. There are those deliciously soft warm things for the wrists,-- do buy them
Oh no
they must be intended for imaginative persons, who can chill themselves on this warm day by thinking of the frosty Caucasus. Stern reason is my forte, you know. You must get Philip to buy those. By the way, why doesn't he come
He never likes going where there are many people, though I enjoined him to come. He said he would buy up any of my goods that the rest of the world rejected. But now, do go and buy something of Maggie
No, no; see, she has got a customer; there is old Wakem himself just coming up
Why, Wakem is making himself particularly amiable to your cousin
is it pure magnanimity? You talked of a family quarrel
Oh, that will soon be quite healed, I hope
My son came with me
but he has vanished into some other part of the building, and has left all these charitable gallantries to me. I hope you'll reproach him for his shabby conduct
Aren't you very tried? Do let me bring you something,-- some fruit or jelly, mayn't I
Oh no, thank you
You look so pale
I'm sure you're exhausted. I must disobey you, and bring something
No, indeed, I couldn't take it
Are you angry with me? What have I done? _Do_ look at me
Pray, go away
Are you studying for a portrait, Phil
or for a sketch of that oriel window? By George, it makes a capital bit from this dark corner, with the curtain just marking it off
I have been studying expression
What! Miss Tulliver's? It's rather of the savage-moody order to-day, I think,-- something of the fallen princess serving behind a counter. Her cousin sent me to her with a civil offer to get her some refreshment, but I have been snubbed, as usual. There's natural antipathy between us, I suppose; I have seldom the honor to please her
What a hypocrite you are
What! because experience must have told me that I'm universally pleasing? I admit the law, but there's some disturbing force here
I am going
So am I -- to get a breath of fresh air; this place gets oppressive. I think I have done suit and service long enough
Oh, by the by, I must call in here
the giant Python
You find your office rather a fatiguing one, I fear, Miss Tulliver
It is, rather
But I can tell Mrs. Kenn that you have disposed of her goods very quickly
she will be very much obliged to you
Oh, I have done nothing; the gentlemen came very fast to buy the dressing-gowns and embroidered waistcoats, but I think any of the other ladies would have sold more; I didn't know what to say about them
I hope I'm going to have you as a permanent parishioner now, Miss Tulliver; am I? You have been at a distance from us hitherto
I have been a teacher in a school, and I'm going into another situation of the same kind very soon
Ah? I was hoping you would remain among your friends, who are all in this neighborhood, I believe
Oh, _I must go_
I understand
you feel it right to go. But that will not prevent our meeting again, I hope; it will not prevent my knowing you better, if I can be of any service to you
She has some trouble or other at heart
There's something wonderfully honest in those beautiful eyes
You must give up going to stay with your aunt Moss the day after to-morrow, Maggie; write a note to her, and tell her you have put it off at my request, and I'll send the man with it. She won't be displeased; you'll have plenty of time to go by-and-by; and I don't want you to go out of the way just now
Yes, indeed I must go, dear; I can't put it off. I wouldn't leave aunt Gritty out for the world. And I shall have very little time, for I'm going away to a new situation on the25 th of June
Maggie
I didn't tell you, dear
because you've been so busy. But some time ago I wrote to our old governess, Miss Firniss, to ask her to let me know if she met with any situation that I could fill, and the other day I had a letter from her telling me that I could take three orphan pupils of hers to the coast during the holidays, and then make trial of a situation with her as teacher. I wrote yesterday to accept the offer
Maggie
how could you be so unkind to me -- not to tell me -- to take _such_ a step -- and now
And Philip? I thought everything was going to be so happy. Oh, Maggie, what is the reason? Give it up; let me write. There is nothing now to keep you and Philip apart
Yes
There is Tom's feeling. He said I must give him up if I married Philip. And I know he will not change -- at least not for a long while -- unless something happened to soften him
But I will talk to him; he's coming back this week. And this good news about the Mill will soften him. And I'll talk to him about Philip. Tom's always very compliant to me; I don't think he's so obstinate
But I must go
I must leave some time to pack. Don't press me to stay, dear Lucy
Maggie, is it that you don't love Philip well enough to marry him? Tell me -- trust me
Yes, Lucy, I would choose to marry him. I think it would be the best and highest lot for me,-- to make his life happy. He loved me first. No one else could be quite what he is to me. But I can't divide myself from my brother for life. I must go away, and wait. Pray don't speak to me again about it
Well, dear Maggie, at least you will go to the dance at Park House to-morrow, and have some music and brightness, before you go to pay these dull dutiful visits. Ah! here come aunty and the tea
They're going to waltz again
They are going to waltz again. It is rather dizzy work to look on, and the room is very warm; shall we walk about a little
How strange and unreal the trees and flowers look with the lights among them
They look as if they belonged to an enchanted land, and would never fade away; I could fancy they were all made of jewels
Oh, may I get this rose
I think I am quite wicked with roses; I like to gather them and smell them till they have no scent left
How dare you
What right have I given you to insult me
Leave me to myself, if you please
and for the future avoid me
We can just catch the tips of the Scotch firs, Maggie, from this seat
Yes
I often look at them, and wish I could see the low sunlight on the stems again. But I have never been that way but once,-- to the churchyard with my mother
I have been there, I go there, continually
I have nothing but the past to live upon
I remember all the spots
just where you told me of particular things, beautiful stories that I had never heard of before
You will go there again soon, won't you, Maggie
The Mill will soon be your brother's home again
Yes; but I shall not be there
I shall only hear of that happiness. I am going away again; Lucy has not told you, perhaps
Then the future will never join on to the past again, Maggie? That book is quite closed
That book never will be closed, Philip
I desire no future that will break the ties of the past. But the tie to my brother is one of the strongest. I can do nothing willingly that will divide me always from him
Is that the only reason that would keep us apart forever, Maggie
The only reason
Goodness me! who is that gentleman coming in at the gate
Who is it, my dear
It is Mr. Stephen Guest
My cousin Lucy's -- a gentleman who is very intimate at my cousin's
Hold the horse, Willy
No, thank you
I must be going again immediately. I have a message to deliver to you, Miss Tulliver, on private business. May I take the liberty of asking you to walk a few yards with me
There is no need for me to go any farther. I don't know whether you consider it gentlemanly and delicate conduct to place me in a position that forced me to come out with you, or whether you wished to insult me still further by thrusting an interview upon me in this way
Of course you are angry with me for coming
Of course it is of no consequence what a man has to suffer; it is only your woman's dignity that you care about
As if it were not enough that I'm entangled in this way; that I'm mad with love for you; that I resist the strongest passion a man can feel, because I try to be true to other claims; but you must treat me as if I were a coarse brute, who would willingly offend you. And when, if I had my own choice, I should ask you to take my hand and my fortune and my whole life, and do what you liked with them! I know I forgot myself. I took an unwarrantable liberty. I hate myself for having done it. But I repented immediately; I've been repenting ever since. You ought not to think it unpardonable; a man who loves with his whole soul, as I do you, is liable to be mastered by his feelings for a moment; but you know -- you must believe -- that the worst pain I could have is to have pained you; that I would give the world to recall the error
You must not say these things; I must not hear them
I'm very sorry for any pain you have to go through; but it is of no use to speak
Yes, it _is_ of use
It would be of use if you would treat me with some sort of pity and consideration, instead of doing me vile injustice in your mind. I could bear everything more quietly if I knew you didn't hate me for an insolent coxcomb. Look at me; see what a hunted devil I am; I've been riding thirty miles every day to get away from the thought of you
I don't think any evil of you
Then, dearest, look at me
Don't go away from me yet. Give me a moment's happiness; make me feel you've forgiven me
Yes, I do forgive you
But pray let me go in again. Pray go away
I can't go away from you; I can't leave you
I shall come back again if you send me away with this coldness; I can't answer for myself. But if you will go with me only a little way I can live on that. You see plainly enough that your anger has only made me ten times more unreasonable
Here! just come and hold my horse for five minutes
Oh, no
my aunt will think it so strange
Never mind
they don't know the people at St. Ogg's. Lead him up and down just here for five minutes
Take my arm
There is no end to this misery
It is wicked -- base -- ever allowing a word or look that Lucy -- that others might not have seen. Think of Lucy
I do think of her -- bless her. If I didn't
And I have other ties
even if Lucy did not exist
You are engaged to Philip Wakem
Is it so
I consider myself engaged to him; I don't mean to marry any one else
It is unnatural, it is horrible. Maggie, if you loved me as I love you, we should throw everything else to the winds for the sake of belonging to each other. We should break all these mistaken ties that were made in blindness, and determine to marry each other
I would rather die than fall into that temptation
Tell me, then, that you don't care for me
Tell me that you love some one else better
If you do love me, dearest
it is better -- it is right that we should marry each other. We can't help the pain it will give. It is come upon us without our seeking; it is natural; it has taken hold of me in spite of every effort I have made to resist it. God knows, I've been trying to be faithful to tacit engagements, and I've only made things worse; I'd better have given way at first
Say've s' dearest
What could we care about in the whole world beside, if we belonged to each other
And after all
I am breaking no positive engagement; if Lucy's affections had been withdrawn from me and given to some one else, I should have felt no right to assert a claim on her. If you are not absolutely pledged to Philip, we are neither of us bound
You don't believe that; it is not your real feeling
You feel, as I do, that the real tie lies in the feelings and expectations we have raised in other minds. Else all pledges might be broken, when there was no outward penalty. There would be no such thing as faithfulness
The pledge _can't_ be fulfilled
It is unnatural; we can only pretend to give ourselves to any one else. There is wrong in that too; there may be misery in it for _them_ as well as for us. Maggie, you must see that; you do see that
Oh, it is difficult,-- life is very difficult! It seems right to me sometimes that we should follow our strongest feeling; but then, such feelings continually come across the ties that all our former life has made for us,-- the ties that have made others dependent on us,-- and would cut them in two. If life were quite easy and simple, as it might have been in Paradise, and we could always see that one being first toward whom -- I mean, if life did not make duties for us before love comes, love would be a sign that two people ought to belong to each other. But I see -- I feel it is not so now; there are things we must renounce in life; some of us must resign love. Many things are difficult and dark to me; but I see one thing quite clearly,-- that I must not, cannot, seek my own happiness by sacrificing others. Love is natural; but surely pity and faithfulness and memory are natural too. And they would live in me still, and punish me if I did not obey them. I should be haunted by the suffering I had caused. Our love would be poisoned. Don't urge me; help me,-- help me, _because_ I love you
Dearest
I'll do, I'll bear anything you wish. But -- one kiss -- one -- the last -- before we part
Let me go,-- let me make haste back
Sit down here a bit, my dear
Oh, aunt Gritty, I'm very wretched! I wish I could have died when I was fifteen. It seemed so easy to give things up then; it is so hard now
Aunt Pullet
I want you to make up your mind what linen and things you will give Tom toward housekeeping; because you are always so generous,-- you give such nice things, you know; and if you set the example, aunt Glegg will follow
That she never can, my dear
for she hasn't got the linen to follow suit wi' mine, I can tell you. She'd niver the taste, not if she'd spend the money. Big checks and live things, like stags and foxes, all her table-linen is,-- not a spot nor a diamond among 'em. But it's poor work dividing one's linen before one dies,-- I niver thought to ha' done that, Bessy
when you and me chose the double diamont, the first flax iver we'd spun, and the Lord knows where yours is gone
I'd no choice, I'm sure, sister
I'm sure it was no wish o' mine, iver, as I should lie awake o' nights thinking o' my best bleached linen all over the country
Take a peppermint, Mrs. Tulliver
Oh, but, aunt Pullet
you've so much beautiful linen. And suppose you had had daughters! Then you must have divided it when they were married
Well, I don't say as I won't do it
for now Tom's so lucky, it's nothing but right his friends should look on him and help him. There's the tablecloths I bought at your sale, Bessy; it was nothing but good natur' o' me to buy 'em, for they've been lying in the chest ever since. But I'm not going to give Maggie any more o' my Indy muslin and things, if she's to go into service again, when she might stay and keep me company, and do my sewing for me, if she wasn't wanted at her brother's
Hegh, hegh
nonsense, nonsense! Don't let us hear of you taking a place again, Maggie. Why, you must ha' picked up half-a-dozen sweethearts at the bazaar; isn't there one of'em the right sort of article? Come, now
Mr. Glegg
you'll excuse me, but you're far too light for a man of your years. It's respect and duty to her aunts, and the rest of her kin as are so good to her, should have kept my niece from fixing about going away again without consulting us; not sweethearts, if I'm to use such a word, though it was never heared in _my_ family
Why, what did they call us, when we went to see 'em, then, eh, neighbor Pullet? They thought us sweet enough then
Mr. Glegg
if you're going to be undelicate, let me know
La, Jane, your husband's only joking
let him joke while he's got health and strength. There's poor Mr. Tilt got his mouth drawn all o' one side, and couldn't laugh if he was to try
I'll trouble you for the muffineer, then, Mr. Glegg
if I may be so bold to interrupt your joking. Though it's other people must see the joke in a niece's putting a slight on her mother's eldest sister, as is the head o' the family; and only coming in and out on short visits, all the time she's been in the town, and then settling to go away without my knowledge,-- as I'd laid caps out on purpose for her to make 'em up for me,-- and me as have divided my money so equal
Sister
I'm sure Maggie never thought o' going away without staying at your house as well as the others. Not as it's my wish she should go away at all, but quite contrairy. I'm sure I'm innocent. I've said over and over again, 'My dear, you've no call to go away.' But there's ten days or a fortnight Maggie'll have before she's fixed to go; she can stay at your house just as well, and I'll step in when I can, and so will Lucy
Bessy
if you'd exercise a little more thought, you might know I should hardly think it was worth while to unpin a bed, and go to all that trouble now, just at the end o' the time, when our house isn't above a quarter of an hour's walk from Mr. Deane's. She can come the first thing in the morning, and go back the last at night, and be thankful she's got a good aunt so close to her to come and sit with. I know _I_ should, when I was her age
La, Jane
it 'ud do your beds good to have somebody to sleep in 'em. There's that striped room smells dreadful mouldy, and the glass mildewed like anything. I'm sure I thought I should be struck with death when you took me in
Oh, there is Tom
He's come on Sindbad, as I told him. I was afraid he was not going to keep his promise
Well, Magsie, how's aunt Moss
Come, come, sir
Why, you're such a big man, you carry all before you, it, seems. You're come into your luck a good deal earlier than us old folks did; but I wish you joy, I wish you joy. You'll get the Mill all for your own again some day, I'll be bound. You won't stop half-way up the hill
But I hope he'll bear in mind as it's his mother's family as he owes it to
If he hadn't had them to take after, he'd ha' been poorly off. There was never any failures, nor lawing, nor wastefulness in our family, nor dying without wills
No, nor sudden deaths
allays the doctor called in. But Tom had the Dodson skin; I said that from the first. And I don't know what _you_ mean to do, sister Glegg, but I mean to give him a tablecloth of all my three biggest sizes but one, besides sheets. I don't say what more I shall do; but _that_ I shall do, and if I should die to-morrow, Mr. Pullet, you'll bear it in mind,-- though you'll be blundering with the keys, and never remember as that on the third shelf o' the left-hand wardrobe, behind the night-caps with the broad ties,-- not the narrow-frilled uns,-- is the key of the drawer in the Blue Room, where the key o' the Blue Closet is. You'll make a mistake, and I shall niver be worthy to know it. You've a memory for my pills and draughts, wonderful,-- I'll allays say that of you,-- but you're lost among the keys
You carry it too far, Sophy,-- that locking in and out
You go beyond your own family. There's nobody can say I don't lock up; but I do what's reasonable, and no more. And as for the linen, I shall look out what's serviceable, to make a present of to my nephey; I've got cloth as has never been whitened, better worth having than other people's fine holland; and I hope he'll lie down in it and think of his aunt
You must sit by yourself, aunty
because I must sit by Tom; I've a great deal to say to him
but of course Maggie could do as she liked,-- she had declared her determination to be independent. For Tom's part, he held himself bound by his duty to his father's memory, and by every manly feeling, never to consent to any relation with the Wakems
else what shall I have of you
Ah, God! preserve me from inflicting -- give me strength to bear it
Now Maggie's tale of visits to aunt Glegg is completed, I mean that we shall go out boating every day until she goes. She has not had half enough boating because of these tiresome visits, and she likes it better than anything. Don't you, Maggie
Better than any sort of locomotion, I hope you mean
else she will be selling her soul to that ghostly boatman who haunts the Floss, only for the sake of being drifted in a boat forever
Should you like to be her boatman
Because, if you would, you can come with us and take an oar. If the Floss were but a quiet lake instead of a river, we should be independent of any gentleman, for Maggie can row splendidly. As it is, we are reduced to ask services of knights and squires, who do not seem to offer them with great alacrity
The thirst that from the soul doth rise Doth ask a drink divine
You don't seem inclined for boating
Doesn't rowing suit you now
Oh, I hate a large party in a boat
I'll come when you have no one else
As Miss Deane didn't know she was excluding others by inviting me
I am bound to resign
No, indeed, you shall not
I particularly wish for your company to-morrow. The tide will suit at half-past ten; it will be a delicious time for a couple of hours to row to Luckreth and walk back, before the sun gets too hot. And how can you object to four people in a boat
I don't object to the people, but the number
If I voted for a fourth at all, of course it would be you, Phil. But we won't divide the pleasure of escorting the ladies; we'll take it alternately. I'll go the next day
Laceham Courier
You will have your row in the boat just the same, you know
Philip will be here it half-past ten, and it is a delicious morning. Now don't say a word against it, you dear dolorous thing. What is the use of my being a fairy godmother, if you set your face against all the wonders I work for you? Don't think of awful cousin Tom; you may disobey him a little
He is not coming
I am going in the boat
Oh, we can't go
Lucy did not expect -- she would be hurt. Why is not Philip come
He is not well; he asked me to come instead
Lucy is gone to Lindum
We must not go
Very well
Then we'll stay here
The man is waiting; he has taken the cushions
Will you go and tell him
What shall I tell him
Let us go
We shall not be long together
Oh, have we passed Luckreth, where we were to stop
Yes, a long way
Oh, what shall I do
We shall not get home for hours, and Lucy? O God, help me
Maggie
let us never go home again, till no one can part us,-- till we are married
See, Maggie, how everything has come without our seeking,-- in spite of all our efforts. We never thought of being alone together again; it has all been done by others. See how the tide is carrying us out, away from all those unnatural bonds that we have been trying to make faster round us, and trying in vain. It will carry us on to Torby, and we can land there, and get some carriage, and hurry on to York and then to Scotland,-- and never pause a moment till we are bound to each other, so that only death can part us. It is the only right thing, dearest; it is the only way of escaping from this wretched entanglement. Everything has concurred to point it out to us. We have contrived nothing, we have thought of nothing ourselves
Let me go
You have wanted to deprive me of any choice. You knew we were come too far; you have dared to take advantage of my thoughtlessness. It is unmanly to bring me into such a position
I didn't notice that we had passed Luckreth till we had got to the next village; and then it came into my mind that we would go on. I can't justify it; I ought to have told you. It is enough to make you hate me, since you don't love me well enough to make everything else indifferent to you, as I do you. Shall I stop the boat and try to get you out here? I'll tell Lucy that I was mad, and that you hate me; and you shall be clear of me forever. No one can blame you, because I have behaved unpardonably to you
As if I shouldn't feel what happened to you -- just the same
You will be chill, Maggie, in this thin dress. Let me raise the cloak over your shoulders. Get up an instant, dearest
Maggie, dearest
if this vessel should be going to Mudport, or to any convenient place on the coast northward, it would be our best plan to get them to take us on board. You are fatigued, and it may soon rain; it may be a wretched business, getting to Torby in this boat. It's only a trading vessel, but I dare say you can be made tolerably comfortable. We'll take the cushions out of the boat. It is really our best plan. They'll be glad enough to take us. I've got plenty of money about me. I can pay them well
We had got out too far with our boat
I was trying to make for Torby. But I'm afraid of the weather; and this lady -- my wife -- will be exhausted with fatigue and hunger. Take us on board -- will you?-- and haul up the boat. I'll pay you well
Here we are in sight of Mudport
Now, dearest
the worst part of your fatigue is over. On the land we can command swiftness. In another hour and a half we shall be in a chaise together, and that will seem rest to you after this
We shall not be together; we shall have parted
We shall not
I'll die first
Ask them to show us into a room where we can sit down
I'm not going; we must part here
Maggie
do you mean to kill me? What is the use of it now? The whole thing is done
No, it is not done
Too much is done,-- more than we can ever remove the trace of. But I will go no farther. Don't try to prevail with me again. I couldn't choose yesterday
Maggie
have some pity -- hear me -- forgive me for what I did yesterday. I will obey you now; I will do nothing without your full consent. But don't blight our lives forever by a rash perversity that can answer no good purpose to any one, that can only create new evils. Sit down, dearest; wait -- think what you are going to do. Don't treat me as if you couldn't trust me
We must not wait
we must part at once
We _can't_ part, Maggie
I can't bear it. What is the use of inflicting that misery on me? The blow -- whatever it may have been -- has been struck now. Will it help any one else that you should drive me mad
I will not begin any future, even for you
with a deliberate consent to what ought not to have been. What I told you at Basset I feel now; I would rather have died than fall into this temptation. It would have been better if we had parted forever then. But we must part now
We will _not_ part
I will not endure it. You'll make me desperate; I sha'n't know what I do
Remember what you felt weeks ago
remember what we both felt,-- that we owed ourselves to others, and must conquer every inclination which could make us false to that debt. We have failed to keep our resolutions; but the wrong remains the same
No, it does _not_ remain the same
We have proved that it was impossible to keep our resolutions. We have proved that the feeling which draws us toward each other is too strong to be overcome. That natural law surmounts every other; we can't help what it clashes with
It is not so, Stephen; I'm quite sure that is wrong. I have tried to think it again and again; but I see, if we judged in that way, there would be a warrant for all treachery and cruelty; we should justify breaking the most sacred ties that can ever be formed on earth. If the past is not to bind us, where can duty lie? We should have no law but the inclination of the moment
But there are ties that can't be kept by mere resolution
What is outward faithfulness? Would they have thanked us for anything so hollow as constancy without love
That seems right -- at first; but when I look further, I'm sure it is _not_ right. Faithfulness and constancy mean something else besides doing what is easiest and pleasantest to ourselves. They mean renouncing whatever is opposed to the reliance others have in us,-- whatever would cause misery to those whom the course of our lives has made dependent on us. If we -- if I had been better, nobler, those claims would have been so strongly present with me,-- I should have felt them pressing on my heart so continually, just as they do now in the moments when my conscience is awake,-- that the opposite feeling would never have grown in me, as it has done; it would have been quenched at once, I should have prayed for help so earnestly, I should have rushed away as we rush from hideous danger. I feel no excuse for myself, none. I should never have failed toward Lucy and Philip as I have done, if I had not been weak, selfish, and hard,-- able to think of their pain without a pain to myself that would have destroyed all temptation. Oh, what is Lucy feeling now? She believed in me -- she loved me -- she was so good to me. Think of her
I _can't_ think of her
I can think of nothing but you, Maggie. You demand of a man what is impossible. I felt that once; but I can't go back to it now. And where is the use of _your_ thinking of it, except to torture me? You can't save them from pain now; you can only tear yourself from me, and make my life worthless to me. And even if we could go back, and both fulfil our engagements,-- if that were possible now,-- it would be hateful, horrible, to think of your ever being Philip's wife,-- of your ever being the wife of a man you didn't love. We have both been rescued from a mistake
Maggie! Dearest! If you love me, you are mine. Who can have so great a claim on you as I have? My life is bound up in your love. There is nothing in the past that can annul our right to each other; it is the first time we have either of us loved with our whole heart and soul
No, not with my whole heart and soul, Stephen
I have never consented to it with my whole mind. There are memories, and affections, and longings after perfect goodness, that have such a strong hold on me; they would never quit me for long; they would come back and be pain to me -- repentance. I couldn't live in peace if I put the shadow of a wilful sin between myself and God. I have caused sorrow already -- I know -- I feel it; but I have never deliberately consented to it; I have never said, 'They shall suffer, that I may have joy.' It has never been my will to marry you; if you were to win consent from the momentary triumph of my feeling for you, you would not have my whole soul. If I could wake back again into the time before yesterday, I would choose to be true to my calmer affections, and live without the joy of love
Good God
what a miserable thing a woman's love is to a man's! I could commit crimes for you,-- and you can balance and choose in that way. But you_don't _ love me; if you had a tithe of the feeling for me that I have for you, it would be impossible to you to think for a moment of sacrificing me. But it weighs nothing with you that you are robbing me of _my_ life's happiness
No, I don't sacrifice you -- I couldn't sacrifice you
but I can't believe in a good for you, that I feel, that we both feel, is a wrong toward others. We can't choose happiness either for ourselves or for another; we can't tell where that will lie. We can only choose whether we will indulge ourselves in the present moment, or whether we will renounce that, for the sake of obeying the divine voice within us,-- for the sake of being true to all the motives that sanctify our lives. I know this belief is hard; it has slipped away from me again and again; but I have felt that if I let it go forever, I should have no light through the darkness of this life
But, Maggie
is it possible you don't see that what happened yesterday has altered the whole position of things? What infatuation is it, what obstinate prepossession, that blinds you to that? It is too late to say what we might have done or what we ought to have done. Admitting the very worst view of what has been done, it is a fact we must act on now; our position is altered; the right course is no longer what it was before. We must accept our own actions and start afresh from them. Suppose we had been married yesterday? It is nearly the same thing. The effect on others would not have been different. It would only have made this difference to ourselves
that you might have acknowledged then that your tie to me was stronger than to others
Dearest
In a few hours you will be legally mine, and those who had claims on us will submit,-- they will see that there was a force which declared against their claims
Oh, I can't do it
Stephen, don't ask me -- don't urge me. I can't argue any longer,-- I don't know what is wise; but my heart will not let me do it. I see,-- I feel their trouble now; it is as if it were branded on my mind. _I_ have suffered, and had no one to pity me; and now I have made others suffer. It would never leave me; it would embitter your love to me. I _do_ care for Philip -- in a different way; I remember all we said to each other; I know how he thought of me as the one promise of his life. He was given to me that I might make his lot less hard; and I have forsaken him. And Lucy -- she has been deceived; she who trusted me more than any one. I cannot marry you; I cannot take a good for myself that has been wrung out of their misery. It is not the force that ought to rule us,-- this that we feel for each other; it would rend me away from all that my past life has made dear and holy to me. I can't set out on a fresh life, and forget that; I must go back to it, and cling to it, else I shall feel as if there were nothing firm beneath my feet
Good God, Maggie
you rave. How can you go back without marrying me? You don't know what will be said, dearest. You see nothing as it really is
Yes, I do. But they will believe me. I will confess everything. Lucy will believe me -- she will forgive you, and -- and -- oh, _some_ good will come by clinging to the right. Dear, dear Stephen, let me go!-- don't drag me into deeper remorse. My whole soul has never consented; it does not consent now
Go, then,-- leave me; don't torture me any longer,-- I can't bear it
Leave me
Gone, forever gone." 

Book VII





_The Final Rescue_
Tom
I am come back to you,-- I am come back home -- for refuge -- to tell you everything
You will find no home with me
You have disgraced us all. You have disgraced my father's name. You have been a curse to your best friends. You have been base, deceitful; no motives are strong enough to restrain you. I wash my hands of you forever. You don't belong to me
Tom
I am perhaps not so guilty as you believe me to be. I never meant to give way to my feelings. I struggled against them. I was carried too far in the boat to come back on Tuesday. I came back as soon as I could
I can't believe in you any more
You have been carrying on a clandestine relation with Stephen Guest,-- as you did before with another. He went to see you at my aunt Moss's; you walked alone with him in the lanes; you must have behaved as no modest girl would have done to her cousin's lover, else that could never have happened. The people at Luckreth saw you pass; you passed all the other places; you knew what you were doing. You have been using Philip Wakem as a screen to deceive Lucy,-- the kindest friend you ever had. Go and see the return you have made her. She's ill; unable to speak. My mother can't go near her, lest she should remind her of you
Tom
whatever I have done, I repent it bitterly. I want to make amends. I will endure anything. I want to be kept from doing wrong again
What _will_ keep you
Not religion; not your natural feelings of gratitude and honor. And he -- he would deserve to be shot, if it were not ---- But you are ten times worse than he is. I loathe your character and your conduct. You struggled with your feelings, you say. Yes! _I_ have had feelings to struggle with; but I conquered them. I have had a harder life than you have had; but I have found _my_ comfort in doing my duty. But I will sanction no such character as yours; the world shall know that _I_ feel the difference between right and wrong. If you are in want, I will provide for you; let my mother know. But you shall not come under my roof. It is enough that I have to bear the thought of your disgrace; the sight of you is hateful to me
My child! I'll go with you. You've got a mother
Come in, my child
He'll let you stay and sleep in my bed. He won't deny that if I ask him
No, mother
I will never go in
Then wait for me outside. I'll get ready and come with you
My house is yours, mother, always
You will come and let me know everything you want; you will come back to me
Mother
we will go to Luke's cottage. Luke will take me in. He was very good to me when I was a little girl
He's got no room for us, my dear, now; his wife's got so many children. I don't know where to go, if it isn't to one o' your aunts; and I hardly durst
Let us go to Bob Jakin's, mother; his wife will have room for us, if they have no other lodger
Miss
Come in
We'll go back, if it disturbs you, Miss
No
You see, we've got a little un, Miss, and I want'd you to look at it, and take it in your arms, if you'd be so good. For we made free to name it after you, and it 'ud be better for your takin' a bit o' notice on it
Sit down, Bob
Bob
I have a favor to ask of you
Don't you speak so, Miss
if there's anything I can do for you, I should look upon it as a day's earnings
I want you to go to Dr. Kenn's, and ask to speak to him, and tell him that I am here, and should be very grateful if he would come to me while my mother is away. She will not come back till evening
Eh, Miss, I'd do it in a minute,-- it is but a step,-- but Dr. Kenn's wife lies dead; she's to be buried to-morrow; died the day I come from Mudport. It's all the more pity she should ha' died just now, if you want him. I hardly like to go a-nigh him yet
Oh no, Bob
we must let it be,-- till after a few days, perhaps, when you hear that he is going about again. But perhaps he may be going out of town -- to a distance
Not he, Miss
_He'll_ none go away. He isn't one o' them gentlefolks as go to cry at waterin'-places when their wives die; he's got summat else to do. He looks fine and sharp after the parish, he does. He christened the little un; an' he was _at_ me to know what I did of a Sunday, as I didn't come to church. But I told him I was upo' the travel three parts o' the Sundays,-- an' then I'm so used to bein' on my legs, I can't sit so long on end,-- 'an' lors, sir,' says I, 'a packman can do wi' a small 'lowance o' church; it tastes strong,' says I; 'there's no call to lay it on thick.' Eh, Miss, how good the little un is wi' you! It's like as if it knowed you; it partly does, I'll be bound,-- like the birds know the mornin
Will you give me leave to ask you only one thing, Miss
Yes, Bob, if it is about myself -- not about any one else
Well, Miss, it's this. _Do_ you owe anybody a grudge
No, not any one
Why
Oh, lors, Miss
I wish you did, an' tell me; I'd leather him till I couldn't see -- I would -- an' the Justice might do what he liked to me arter
Oh, Bob
you're a very good friend to me. But I shouldn't like to punish any one, even if they'd done me wrong; I've done wrong myself too often
Happen you'd like Mumps for company, Miss
He's rare company, Mumps is; he knows iverything, an' makes no bother about it. If I tell him, he'll lie before you an' watch you, as still,-- just as he watches my pack. You'd better let me leave him a bit; he'll get fond on you. Lors, it's a fine thing to hev a dumb brute fond on you; it'll stick to you, an' make no jaw
Yes, do leave him, please
I think I should like to have Mumps for a friend
Mumps, lie down there
and niver do you stir till you're spoke to
and a deformed young man, you know!-- and young Guest so very fascinating; and, they say, he positively worships her (to be sure, that can't last!), and he ran away with her in the boat quite against her will, and what could she do? She couldn't come back then; no one would have spoken to her; and how very well that maize-colored satinette becomes her complexion! It seems as if the folds in front were quite come in; several of her dresses are made so,-- they say he thinks nothing too handsome to buy for her. Poor Miss Deane! She is very pitiable; but then there was no positive engagement; and the air at the coast will do her good. After all, if young Guest felt no more for her than _that_ it was better for her not to marry him. What a wonderful marriage for a girl like Miss Tulliver,-- quite romantic? Why, young Guest will put up for the borough at the next election. Nothing like commerce nowadays! That young Wakem nearly went out of his mind; he always _was_ rather queer; but he's gone abroad again to be out of the way,-- quite the best thing for a deformed young man. Miss Unit declares she will never visit Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Guest,-- such nonsense! pretending to be better than other people. Society couldn't be carried on if we inquired into private conduct in that way,-- and Christianity tells us to think no evil,-- and my belief is, that Miss Unit had no cards sent her
I was coming to see you, Miss Tulliver; you have anticipated me; I am glad you did
I want to tell you everything
Do tell me everything
Think of me as one to whom a long experience has been granted, which may enable him to help you
_Oh, I must go_
Your prompting to go to your nearest friends,-- to remain where all the ties of your life have been formed,-- is a true prompting, to which the Church in its original constitution and discipline responds, opening its arms to the penitent, watching over its children to the last; never abandoning them until they are hopelessly reprobate. And the Church ought to represent the feeling of the community, so that every parish should be a family knit together by Christian brotherhood under a spiritual father. But the ideas of discipline and Christian fraternity are entirely relaxed,-- they can hardly be said to exist in the public mind; they hardly survive except in the partial, contradictory form they have taken in the narrow communities of schismatics; and if I were not supported by the firm faith that the Church must ultimately recover the full force of that constitution which is alone fitted to human needs, I should often lose heart at observing the want of fellowship and sense of mutual responsibility among my own flock. At present everything seems tending toward the relaxation of ties,-- toward the substitution of wayward choice for the adherence to obligation, which has its roots in the past. Your conscience and your heart have given you true light on this point, Miss Tulliver; and I have said all this that you may know what my wish about you -- what my advice to you -- would be, if they sprang from my own feeling and opinion unmodified by counteracting circumstances
Your inexperience of the world, Miss Tulliver, prevents you from anticipating fully the very unjust conceptions that will probably be formed concerning your conduct,-- conceptions which will have a baneful effect, even in spite of known evidence to disprove them
Oh, I do,-- I begin to see
I know I shall be insulted. I shall be thought worse than I am
You perhaps do not yet know
that a letter is come which ought to satisfy every one who has known anything of you, that you chose the steep and difficult path of a return to the right, at the moment when that return was most of all difficult
Oh, where is he
He is gone abroad; he has written of all that passed to his father. He has vindicated you to the utmost; and I hope the communication of that letter to your cousin will have a beneficial effect on her
That letter, as I said, ought to suffice to prevent false impressions concerning you. But I am bound to tell you, Miss Tulliver, that not only the experience of my whole life, but my observation within the last three days, makes me fear that there is hardly any evidence which will save you from the painful effect of false imputations. The persons who are the most incapable of a conscientious struggle such as yours are precisely those who will be likely to shrink from you, because they will not believe in your struggle. I fear your life here will be attended not only with much pain, but with many obstructions. For this reason -- and for this only -- I ask you to consider whether it will not perhaps be better for you to take a situation at a distance, according to your former intention. I will exert myself at once to obtain one for you
Oh, if I could but stop here
I have no heart to begin a strange life again. I should have no stay. I should feel like a lonely wanderer, cut off from the past. I have written to the lady who offered me a situation to excuse myself. If I remained here, I could perhaps atone in some way to Lucy -- to others; I could convince them that I'm sorry. And
I will not go away because people say false things of me. They shall learn to retract them. If I must go away at last, because -- because others wish it, I will not go now
Well
if you determine on that, Miss Tulliver, you may rely on all the influence my position gives me. I am bound to aid and countenance you by the very duties of my office as a parish priest. I will add, that personally I have a deep interest in your peace of mind and welfare
The only thing I want is some occupation that will enable me to get my bread and be independent
I shall not want much. I can go on lodging where I am
I must think over the subject maturely
and in a few days I shall be better able to ascertain the general feeling. I shall come to see you; I shall bear you constantly in mind
Your aunt Glegg scolded me so as niver was, my dear
as I didn't go to her before; she said it wasn't for her to come to me first. But she spoke like a sister, too; _having_ she allays was, and hard to please,-- oh dear!-- but she's said the kindest word as has ever been spoke by you yet, my child. For she says, for all she's been so set again' having one extry in the house, and making extry spoons and things, and putting her about in her ways, you shall have a shelter in her house, if you'll go to her dutiful, and she'll uphold you against folks as say harm of you when they've no call. And I told her I thought you couldn't bear to see anybody but me, you were so beat down with trouble; but she said, '_I_ won't throw ill words at her; there's them out o' th' family 'ull be ready enough to do that. But I'll give her good advice; an' she must be humble.' It's wonderful o' Jane; for I'm sure she used to throw everything I did wrong at me,-- if it was the raisin-wine as turned out bad, or the pies too hot, or whativer it was
Oh, mother
tell her I'm very grateful; I'll go to see her as soon as I can; but I can't see any one just yet, except Dr. Kenn. I've been to him,-- he will advise me, and help me to get some occupation. I can't live with any one, or be dependent on them, tell aunt Glegg; I must get my own bread. But did you hear nothing of Philip -- Philip Wakem? Have you never seen any one that has mentioned him
No, my dear; but I've been to Lucy's, and I saw your uncle, and he says they got her to listen to the letter, and she took notice o' Miss Guest, and asked questions, and the doctor thinks she's on the turn to be better. What a world this is,-- what trouble, oh dear! The law was the first beginning, and it's gone from bad to worse, all of a sudden, just when the luck seemed on the turn
My poor, poor mother
I was always naughty and troublesome to you. And now you might have been happy if it hadn't been for me
Eh, my dear
I must put up wi' my children,-- I shall never have no more; and if they bring me bad luck, I must be fond on it. There's nothing else much to be fond on, for my furnitur' went long ago. And you'd got to be very good once; I can't think how it's turned out the wrong way so
_Philip Wakem_
O God, is there any happiness in love that could make me forget _their_ pain
I will not believe unproved evil of you; my lips shall not utter it; my ears shall be closed against it; I, too, am an erring mortal, liable to stumble, apt to come short of my most earnest efforts; your lot has been harder than mine, your temptation greater; let us help each other to stand and walk without more falling
such things had been said
Maggie
Maggie
Lucy
I stole out
when papa and the rest were away. Alice is come with me. I asked her to help me. But I must only stay a little while, because it is so late
God bless you for coming, Lucy
Maggie, dear, be comforted
Don't grieve
I didn't mean to deceive you, Lucy
It always made me wretched that I felt what I didn't like you to know. It was because I thought it would all be conquered, and you might never see anything to wound you
I know, dear
I know you never meant to make me unhappy. It is a trouble that has come on us all; you have more to bear than I have -- and you gave him up, when -- you did what it must have been very hard to do
Lucy
_he_ struggled too. He wanted to be true to you. He will come back to you. Forgive him -- he will be happy then
I daren't stay any longer, Miss Deane. They'll find it out, and there'll be such anger at your coming out so late
Very well, Alice,-- in a minute
I'm to go away on Friday, Maggie
When I come back, and am strong, they will let me do as I like. I shall come to you when I please then
Lucy
I pray to God continually that I may never be the cause of sorrow to you any more
Maggie
you are better than I am. I can't
They have written to me that you are to marry Kenn. As if I should believe that! Perhaps they have told you some such fables about me. Perhaps they tell you I've been 'travelling.' My body has been dragged about somewhere; but _I_ have never travelled from the hideous place where you left me; where I started up from the stupor of helpless rage to find you gone. "Maggie! whose pain can have been like mine? Whose injury is like mine? Who besides me has met that long look of love that has burnt itself into my soul, so that no other image can come there? Maggie, call me back to you! Call me back to life and goodness! I am banished from both now. I have no motives; I am indifferent to everything. Two months have only deepened the certainty that I can never care for life without you. Write me one word; say 'Come!' In two days I should be with you. Maggie, have you forgotten what it was to be together,-- to be within reach of a look, to be within hearing of each other's voice
Come
I have received the Cross, I have received it from Thy hand; I will bear it, and bear it till death, as Thou hast laid it upon me
Forgive me, Stephen! It will pass away. You will come back to her
I will bear it, and bear it till death. But how long it will be before death comes! I am so young, so healthy. How shall I have patience and strength? Am I to struggle and fall and repent again? Has life other trials as hard for me still
O God, if my life is to be long, let me live to bless and comfort
Bob, the flood is come! it is in the house; let us see if we can make the boats safe
It is the boat
Bob, come down to get the boats
Why, they're both here,-- both the boats
It's wonderful this fastening isn't broke too, as well as the mooring
The water's rising so fast
I doubt it'll be in at the chambers before long,-- th' house is so low. I've more mind to get Prissy and the child and the mother into the boat, if I could, and trusten to the water,-- for th' old house is none so safe. And if I let go the boat -- but _you_
O God, where am I? Which is the way home
Tom, where are you? Mother, where are you? Here is Maggie
Who is it? Have you brought a boat
It is I, Tom,-- Maggie. Where is mother
She is not here; she went to Garum the day before yesterday. I'll come down to the lower window
Alone, Maggie
Yes, Tom; God has taken care of me, to bring me to you. Get in quickly. Is there no one else
No
I fear the man is drowned; he was carried down the Ripple, I think, when part of the Mill fell with the crash of trees and stones against it; I've shouted again and again, and there has been no answer. Give me the oars, Maggie
Magsie
We will go to Lucy, Tom; we'll go and see if she is safe, and then we can help the rest
Park House stands high up out of the flood
Perhaps they have got Lucy there
Get out of the current
It is coming, Maggie
In their death they were not divided
</text>
