<text>
Bruaria
Turbaria Bruaria
Overgrown with heth and mosse
You have something inside there besides your load
Yes
Somebody who wants looking after
Yes
You have a child there, my man
No, sir, I have a woman
The deuce you have! Why did she cry out
Oh, she has fallen asleep, and not being used to traveling, she's uneasy, and keeps dreaming
A young woman
Yes, a young woman
That would have interested me forty years ago. Perhaps she's your wife
My wife
She's above mating with such as I. But there's no reason why I should tell you about that
That's true. And there's no reason why you should not. What harm can I do to you or to her
Well, sir
I knew her before today, though perhaps it would have been better if I had not. But she's nothing to me, and I am nothing to her; and she wouldn't have been in my van if any better carriage had been there to take her
Where, may I ask
At Anglebury
I know the town well. What was she doing there
Oh, not much -- to gossip about. However, she's tired to death now, and not at all well, and that's what makes her so restless. She dropped off into a nap about an hour ago, and 'twill do her good
A nice-looking girl, no doubt
You would say so
I presume I might look in upon her
No
It is getting too dark for you to see much of her; and, more than that, I have no right to allow you. Thank God she sleeps so well: I hope she won't wake till she's home
Who is she? One of the neighbourhood
'Tis no matter who, excuse me
It is not that girl of Blooms-End, who has been talked about more or less lately? If so, I know her; and I can guess what has happened
'Tis no matter... Now, sir, I am sorry to say that we shall soon have to part company. My ponies are tired, and I have further to go, and I am going to rest them under this bank for an hour
Good night
The king' call'd down' his no-bles all', By one', by two', by three'; Earl Mar'-shal, I'll' go shrive'-the queen', And thou' shalt wend' with me'. "A boon', a boon', quoth Earl' Mar-shal', And fell' on his bend'-ded knee', That what'-so-e'er' the queen' shall say', No harm' there-of' may be
A fair stave, Grandfer Cantle; but I am afeard 'tis too much for the mouldy weasand of such a old man as you
Dostn't wish th' wast three sixes again, Grandfer, as you was when you first learnt to sing it
Hey
Dostn't wish wast young again, I say? There's a hole in thy poor bellows nowadays seemingly
But there's good art in me? If I couldn't make a little wind go a long ways I should seem no younger than the most aged man, should I, Timothy
And how about the new-married folks down there at the Quiet Woman Inn
What's the rights of the matter about 'em? You ought to know, being an understanding man
But a little rakish, hey? I own to it. Master Cantle is that, or he's nothing. Yet 'tis a gay fault, neighbour Fairway, that age will cure
I heard that they were coming home to-night. By this time they must have come. What besides
The next thing is for us to go and wish 'em joy, I suppose
Well, no
No? Now, I thought we must. _I_ must, or 'twould be very unlike me -- the first in every spree that's going! "Do thou' put on' a fri'-ar's coat', And I'll' put on' a-no'-ther, And we' will to' Queen Ele'anor go', Like Fri'ar and' hisbro't her. 

"I met Mis'ess Yeobright, the young bride's aunt, last night, and she told me that her son Clym was coming home a' Christmas. Wonderful clever, 'a believe -- ah, I should like to have all that's under that young man's hair. Well, then, I spoke to her in my well-known merry way, and she said, 'O that what's shaped so venerable should talk like a fool!' -- that's what she said to me. I don't care for her, be jowned if I do, and so I told her. 'Be jowned if I care for 'ee,' I said. I had her there -- hey
I rather think she had you
No
Tisn't so bad as that with me
Seemingly 'tis, however, is it because of the wedding that Clym is coming home a' Christmas -- to make a new arrangement because his mother is now left in the house alone
Yes, yes -- that's it. But, Timothy, hearken to me
Though known as such a joker, I be an understanding man if you catch me serious, and I am serious now. I can tell 'ee lots about the married couple. Yes, this morning at six o'clock they went up the country to do the job, and neither vell nor mark have been seen of 'em since, though I reckon that this afternoon has brought 'em home again man and woman -- wife, that is. Isn't it spoke like a man, Timothy, and wasn't Mis'ess Yeobright wrong about me
Yes, it will do. I didn't know the two had walked together since last fall, when her aunt forbad the banns. How long has this new set-to been mangling then? Do you know, Humphrey
Yes, how long
I ask that question
Ever since her aunt altered her mind, and said she might have the man after all
That's why they went away to be married, I count. You see, after kicking up such a nunny-watch and forbidding the banns 'twould have made Mis'ess Yeobright seem foolish-like to have a banging wedding in the same parish all as if she'd never gainsaid it
Exactly -- seem foolish-like; and that's very bad for the poor things that be so, though I only guess as much, to be sure
Ah, well, I was at church that day
which was a very curious thing to happen
If 'twasn't my name's Simple
I ha'n't been there to-year; and now the winter is a-coming on I won't say I shall
I ha'n't been these three years
for I'm so dead sleepy of a Sunday; and 'tis so terrible far to get there; and when you do get there 'tis such a mortal poor chance that you'll be chose for up above, when so many bain't, that I bide at home and don't go at all
I not only happened to be there
but I was sitting in the same pew as Mis'ess Yeobright. And though you may not see it as such, it fairly made my blood run cold to hear her. Yes, it is a curious thing; but it made my blood run cold, for I was close at her elbow
'Tis a serious job to have things happen to 'ee there
Ye are to declare it,' was the parson's words
And then up stood a woman at my side -- a-touching of me. 'Well, be damned if there isn't Mis'ess Yeobright a-standing up,' I said to myself. Yes, neighbours, though I was in the temple of prayer that's what I said. 'Tis against my conscience to curse and swear in company, and I hope any woman here will overlook it. Still what I did say I did say, and 'twould be a lie if I didn't own it
So 'twould, neighbour Fairway
Be damned if there isn't Mis'ess Yeobright a-standing up,' I said
And the next thing I heard was, 'I forbid the banns,' from her. 'I'll speak to you after the service,' said the parson, in quite a homely way -- yes, turning all at once into a common man no holier than you or I. Ah, her face was pale! Maybe you can call to mind that monument in Weatherbury church -- the cross-legged soldier that have had his arm knocked away by the school-children? Well, he would about have matched that woman's face, when she said, 'I forbid the banns
I'm sure when I heard they'd been forbid I felt as glad as if anybody had gied me sixpence
And now the maid have married him just the same
After that Mis'ess Yeobright came round and was quite agreeable
Supposing they were ashamed, I don't see why they shouldn't have done it here-right
'Tis well to call the neighbours together and to hae a good racket once now and then; and it may as well be when there's a wedding as at tide-times. I don't care for close ways
Ah, now, you'd hardly believe it, but I don't care for gay weddings
I hardly blame Thomasin Yeobright and neighbour Wildeve for doing it quiet, if I must own it. A wedding at home means five and six-handed reels by the hour; and they do a man's legs no good when he's over forty
True. Once at the woman's house you can hardly say nay to being one in a jig, knowing all the time that you be expected to make yourself worth your victuals
You be bound to dance at Christmas because 'tis the time o' year; you must dance at weddings because 'tis the time o' life. At christenings folk will even smuggle in a reel or two, if 'tis no further on than the first or second chiel. And this is not naming the songs you've got to sing... For my part I like a good hearty funeral as well as anything. You've as splendid victuals and drink as at other parties, and even better. And it don't wear your legs to stumps in talking over a poor fellow's ways as it do to stand up in hornpipes
Nine folks out of ten would own 'twas going too far to dance then, I suppose
'Tis the only sort of party a staid man can feel safe at after the mug have been round a few times
Well, I can't understand a quiet lady-like little body like Tamsin Yeobright caring to be married in such a mean way
'Tis worse than the poorest do. And I shouldn't have cared about the man, though some may say he's good-looking
To give him his due he's a clever, learned fellow in his way -- a'most as clever as Clym Yeobright used to be. He was brought up to better things than keeping the Quiet Woman. An engineer -- that's what the man was, as we know; but he threw away his chance, and so 'a took a public house to live. His learning was no use to him at all
Very often the case
And yet how people do strive after it and get it! The class of folk that couldn't use to make a round O to save their bones from the pit can write their names now without a sputter of the pen, oftentimes without a single blot: what do I say?-- why, almost without a desk to lean their stomachs and elbows upon
True: 'tis amazing what a polish the world have been brought to
Why, afore I went a soldier in the Bang-up Locals (as we was called), in the year four
I didn't know no more what the world was like than the commonest man among ye. And now, jown it all, I won't say what I bain't fit for, hey
Couldst sign the book, no doubt
if wast young enough to join hands with a woman again, like Wildeve and Mis'ess Tamsin, which is more than Humph there could do, for he follows his father in learning. Ah, Humph, well I can mind when I was married how I zid thy father's mark staring me in the face as I went to put down my name. He and your mother were the couple married just afore we were and there stood they father's cross with arms stretched out like a great banging scarecrow. What a terrible black cross that was -- thy father's very likeness in en! To save my soul I couldn't help laughing when I zid en, though all the time I was as hot as dog-days, what with the marrying, and what with the woman a-hanging to me, and what with Jack Changley and a lot more chaps grinning at me through church window. But the next moment a strawmote would have knocked me down, for I called to mind that if thy father and mother had had high words once, they'd been at it twenty times since they'd been man and wife, and I zid myself as the next poor stunpoll to get into the same mess... Ah -- well, what a day 'twas
Wildeve is older than Tamsin Yeobright by a goodfew summers. A pretty maid too she is. A young woman with a home must be a fool to tear her smock for a man like that
A hundred maidens would have had him if he'd asked 'em
Didst ever know a man, neighbour, that no woman at all would marry
I never did
Nor I
Nor I
Well, now, I did once
I did know of such a man. But only once, mind
Yes, I knew of such a man
And what ghastly gallicrow might the poor fellow have been like, Master Fairway
Well, 'a was neither a deaf man, nor a dumb man, nor a blind man. What 'a was I don't say
Is he known in these parts
Hardly
but I name no name... Come, keep the fire up there, youngsters
Whatever is Christian Cantle's teeth a-chattering for
Be ye a-cold, Christian
No, not at all
Come forward, Christian, and show yourself. I didn't know you were here
What be ye quaking for, Christian
I'm the man
What man
The man no woman will marry
The deuce you be
Yes, I be he; and it makes me afeard
D'ye think 'twill hurt me? I shall always say I don't care, and swear to it, though I do care all the while
Well, be damned if this isn't the queerest start ever I know'd
I didn't mean you at all. There's another in the country, then! Why did ye reveal yer misfortune, Christian
'Twas to be if 'twas, I suppose. I can't help it, can I
No, that's true. But 'tis a melancholy thing, and my blood ran cold when you spoke, for I felt there were two poor fellows where I had thought only one. 'Tis a sad thing for ye, Christian. How'st know the women won't hae thee
I've asked 'em
Sure I should never have thought you had the face. Well, and what did the last one say to ye? Nothing that can't be got over, perhaps, after all
Get out of my sight, you slack-twisted, slim-looking maphrotight fool,' was the woman's words to me
Not encouraging, I own
Get out of my sight, you slack-twisted, slim-looking maphrotight fool,' is rather a hard way of saying No. But even that might be overcome by time and patience, so as to let a few grey hairs show themselves in the hussy's head. How old be you, Christian
Thirty-one last tatie-digging, Mister Fairway
Not a boy -- not a boy. Still there's hope yet
That's my age by baptism, because that's put down in the great book of the Judgment that they keep in church vestry; but mother told me I was born some time afore I was christened
Ah
But she couldn't tell when, to save her life, except that there was no moon
No moon: that's bad. Hey, neighbours, that's bad for him
Yes, 'tis bad
Mother know'd 'twas no moon, for she asked another woman that had an almanac, as she did whenever a boy was born to her, because of the saying, 'No moon, no man,' which made her afeard every man-child she had. Do ye really think it serious, Mister Fairway, that there was no moon
Yes; 'No moon, no man.' 'Tis one of the truest sayings ever spit out. The boy never comes to anything that's born at new moon. A bad job for thee, Christian, that you should have showed your nose then of all days in the month
I suppose the moon was terrible full when you were born
Well, 'a was not new
I'd sooner go without drink at Lammas-tide than be a man of no moon
'Tis said I be only the rames of a man, and no good for my race at all; and I suppose that's the cause o't
Ay
and yet his mother cried for scores of hours when 'a was a boy, for fear he should outgrow hisself and go for a soldier
Well, there's many just as bad as he
Wethers must live their time as well as other sheep, poor soul
So perhaps I shall rub on? Ought I to be afeared o' nights, Master Fairway
You'll have to lie alone all your life; and 'tis not to married couples but to single sleepers that a ghost shows himself when 'a do come. One has been seen lately, too. A very strange one
No -- don't talk about it if 'tis agreeable of ye not to! 'Twill make my skin crawl when I think of it in bed alone. But you will -- ah, you will, I know, Timothy; and I shall dream all night o't! A very strange one? What sort of a spirit did ye mean when ye said, a very strange one, Timothy?-- no, no -- don't tell me
I don't half believe in spirits myself. But I think it ghostly enough -- what I was told. 'Twas a little boy that zid it
What was it like?-- no, don't
A red one. Yes, most ghosts be white; but this is as if it had been dipped in blood
Where has it been seen
Not exactly here; but in this same heth. But 'tisn't a thing to talk about. What do ye say
what do you say to giving the new man and wife a bit of a song to-night afore we go to bed -- being their wedding-day? When folks are just married 'tis as well to look glad o't, since looking sorry won't unjoin 'em. I am no drinker, as we know, but when the womenfolk and youngsters have gone home we can drop down across to the Quiet Woman, and strike up a ballet in front of the married folks' door. 'Twill please the young wife, and that's what I should like to do, for many's the skinful I've had at her hands when she lived with her aunt at Blooms-End
Hey? And so we will
I'm as dry as a kex with biding up here in the wind, and I haven't seen the colour of drink since nammet-time today. 'Tis said that the last brew at the Woman is very pretty drinking. And, neighbours, if we should be a little late in the finishing, why, tomorrow's Sunday, and we can sleep it off
Grandfer Cantle! you take things very careless for an old man
I take things careless; I do -- too careless to please the women! Klk! I'll sing the 'Jovial Crew,' or any other song, when a weak old man would cry his eyes out. Jown it; I am up for anything. "The king' look'd o'ver his left' shoul-der', And a grim' look look'-ed hee', Earl Mar'-shal, he said', but for' my oath' Or hang'-ed thou' shouldst bee
Well, that's what we'll do
We'll give 'em a song, an' it please the Lord. What's the good of Thomasin's cousin Clym a-coming home after the deed's done? He should have come afore, if so be he wanted to stop it, and marry her himself
Perhaps he's coming to bide with his mother a little time, as she must feel lonely now the maid's gone
Now, 'tis very odd, but I never feel lonely -- no, not at all
I am as brave in the night-time as a' admiral
To be sure, how near that fire is
Seemingly. I can see a fellow of some sort walking round it. Little and good must be said of that fire, surely
I can throw a stone there
And so can I
No, no, you can't, my sonnies. That fire is not much less than a mile off, for all that 'a seems so near
'Tis in the heath, but not furze
'Tis cleft-wood, that's what 'tis
Nothing would burn like that except clean timber. And 'tis on the knap afore the old captain's house at Mistover. Such a queer mortal as that man is! To have a little fire inside your own bank and ditch, that nobody else may enjoy it or come anigh it! And what a zany an old chap must be, to light a bonfire when there's no youngsters to please
Cap'n Vye has been for a long walk to-day, and is quite tired out
so 'tisn't likely to be he
And he would hardly afford good fuel like that
Then it must be his grand-daughter
Not that a body of her age can want a fire much
She is very strange in her ways, living up there by herself, and such things please her
She's a well-favoured maid enough
especially when she's got one of her dandy gowns on
That's true
Well, let her bonfire burn an't will. Ours is well-nigh out by the look o't
How dark 'tis now the fire's gone down
Don't ye think we'd better get home-along, neighbours? The heth isn't haunted, I know; but we'd better get home... Ah, what was that
Only the wind
I don't think Fifth-of-Novembers ought to be kept up by night except in towns. It should be by day in outstep, ill-accounted places like this
Nonsense, Christian. Lift up your spirits like a man! Susy, dear, you and I will have a jig -- hey, my honey?-- before 'tis quite too dark to see how well-favoured you be still, though so many summers have passed since your husband, a son of a witch, snapped you up from me
I'll crack thy numskull for thee, you mandy chap
My ankles were all in a fever before, from walking through that prickly furze, and now you must make 'em worse with these vlankers
heu-heu-heu
They ought not to do it -- how the vlankers do fly! 'tis tempting the Wicked one, 'tis
What was that
Ah -- where
'Twas behind you, Christian, that I heard it -- down there
Yes --'tis behind me
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, bless the bed that I lie on; four angels guard
Hold your tongue. What is it
Hoi-i-i-i
Halloo-o-o-o
Is there any cart track up across here to Mis'ess Yeobright's, of Blooms-End
Ought we not to run home as hard as we can, neighbours, as 'tis getting late
Not run away from one another, you know; run close together, I mean
Scrape up a few stray locks of furze, and make a blaze, so that we can see who the man is
Is there a track across here to Mis'ess Yeobright's house
Ay -- keep along the path down there
I mean a way two horses and a van can travel over
Well, yes; you can get up the vale below here with time. The track is rough, but if you've got a light your horses may pick along wi' care. Have ye brought your cart far up, neighbour reddleman
I've left it in the bottom, about half a mile back. I stepped on in front to make sure of the way, as 'tis night-time, and I han't been here for so long
Oh, well, you can get up
What a turn it did give me when I saw him
Lord's sake, I thought, whatever fiery mommet is this come to trouble us? No slight to your looks, reddleman, for ye bain't bad-looking in the groundwork, though the finish is queer. My meaning is just to say how curious I felt. I half thought it 'twas the devil or the red ghost the boy told of
It gied me a turn likewise
for I had a dream last night of a death's head
Don't ye talk o't no more
If he had handkerchief over his head he'd look for all the world like the Devil in the picture of the Temptation
Well, thank you for telling me
And good night t'ye all
I fancy I've seen that young man's face before
But where, or how, or what his name is, I don't know
Why, 'tis Mis'ess Yeobright
Mis'ess Yeobright, not ten minutes ago a man was here asking for you -- a reddleman
What did he want
He didn't tell us
Something to sell, I suppose; what it can be I am at a loss to understand
I am glad to hear that your son Mr. Clym is coming home at Christmas, ma'am
What a dog he used to be for bonfires
Yes. I believe he is coming
He must be a fine fellow by this time
He is a man now
'Tis very lonesome for 'ee in the heth tonight, mis'ess
Mind you don't get lost. Egdon Heth is a bad place to get lost in, and the winds do huffle queerer tonight than ever I heard 'em afore. Them that know Egdon best have been pixy-led here at times
Is that you, Christian
What made you hide away from me
'Twas that I didn't know you in this light, mis'ess; and being a man of the mournfullest make, I was scared a little, that's all. Oftentimes if you could see how terrible down I get in my mind, 'twould make 'ee quite nervous for fear I should die by my hand
You don't take after your father
Now, Grandfer
we are ashamed of ye. A reverent old patriarch man as you be -- seventy if a day -- to go hornpiping like that by yourself
A harrowing old man, Mis'ess Yeobright
I wouldn't live with him a week, so playward as he is, if I could get away
'Twould be more seemly in ye to stand still and welcome Mis'ess Yeobright, and you the venerablest here, Grandfer Cantle
Faith, and so it would
I've such a bad memory, Mis'ess Yeobright, that I forget how I'm looked up to by the rest of 'em. My spirits must be wonderful good, you'll say? But not always. 'Tis a weight upon a man to be looked up to as commander, and I often feel it
I am sorry to stop the talk
But I must be leaving you now. I was passing down the Anglebury Road, towards my niece's new home, who is returning tonight with her husband; and seeing the bonfire and hearing Olly's voice among the rest I came up here to learn what was going on. I should like her to walk with me, as her way is mine
Ay, sure, ma'am, I'm just thinking of moving
Why, you'll be safe to meet the reddleman that I told ye of
He's only gone back to get his van. We heard that your niece and her husband were coming straight home as soon as they were married, and we are going down there shortly, to give 'em a song o' welcome
Thank you indeed
But we shall take a shorter cut through the furze than you can go with long clothes; so we won't trouble you to wait
Very well -- are you ready, Olly
Yes, ma'am. And there's a light shining from your niece's window, see. It will help to keep us in the path
And so Tamsin has married him at last
Yes: at last
How you will miss her -- living with 'ee as a daughter, as she always have
I do miss her
I was quite strook to hear you'd agreed to it, ma'am, that I was
You were not more struck by it than I should have been last year this time, Olly. There are a good many sides to that wedding. I could not tell you all of them, even if I tried
I felt myself that he was hardly solid-going enough to mate with your family. Keeping an inn -- what is it? But 'a's clever, that's true, and they say he was an engineering gentleman once, but has come down by being too outwardly given
I saw that, upon the whole, it would be better she should marry where she wished
Poor little thing, her feelings got the better of her, no doubt. 'Tis nature. Well, they may call him what they will -- he've several acres of heth-ground broke up here, besides the public house, and the heth-croppers, and his manners be quite like a gentleman's. And what's done cannot be undone
It cannot
See, here's the waggon-track at last. Now we shall get along better
I think you have been inquiring for me? I am Mrs. Yeobright of Blooms-End
You don't know me, ma'am, I suppose
I do not
Why, yes, I do! You are young Venn -- your father was a dairyman somewhere here
Yes; and I knew your niece, Miss Tamsin, a little. I have something bad to tell you
About her -- no! She has just come home, I believe, with her husband. They arranged to return this afternoon -- to the inn beyond here
She's not there
How do you know
Because she's here. She's in my van
What new trouble has come
I can't explain much, ma'am. All I know is that, as I was going along the road this morning, about a mile out of Anglebury, I heard something trotting after me like a doe, and looking round there she was, white as death itself. 'Oh, Diggory Venn!' she said, 'I thought 'twas you: will you help me? I am in trouble
How did she know your Christian name
I had met her as a lad before I went away in this trade. She asked then if she might ride, and then down she fell in a faint. I picked her up and put her in, and there she has been ever since. She has cried a good deal, but she has hardly spoke; all she has told me being that she was to have been married this morning. I tried to get her to eat something, but she couldn't; and at last she fell asleep
Let me see her at once
O yes, it is I, aunt
I know how frightened you are, and how you cannot believe it; but all the same, it is I who have come home like this
Tamsin, Tamsin
O my dear girl
I did not expect to see you in this state, any more than you me
Where am I, aunt
Nearly home, my dear. In Egdon Bottom. What dreadful thing is it
I'll tell you in a moment. So near, are we? Then I will get out and walk. I want to go home by the path
But this kind man who has done so much will, I am sure, take you right on to my house
Why should you think it necessary to ask me? I will, of course
He is indeed kind
I was once acquainted with him, aunt, and when I saw him today I thought I should prefer his van to any conveyance of a stranger. But I'll walk now. Reddleman, stop the horses, please
I quite recognize you now. What made you change from the nice business your father left you
Well, I did
Then you'll not be wanting me any more to-night, ma'am
I think not
since Thomasin wishes to walk. We can soon run up the path and reach home: we know it well
Now, Thomasin
what's the meaning of this disgraceful performance
It means just what it seems to mean: I am -- not married
Excuse me -- for humiliating you, aunt, by this mishap: I am sorry for it. But I cannot help it
Me? Think of yourself first
It was nobody's fault. When we got there the parson wouldn't marry us because of some trifling irregularity in the license
What irregularity
I don't know. Mr. Wildeve can explain. I did not think when I went away this morning that I should come back like this
I could almost say that it serves you right -- if I did not feel that you don't deserve it
Remember, Thomasin, this business was none of my seeking; from the very first, when you began to feel foolish about that man, I warned you he would not make you happy. I felt it so strongly that I did what I would never have believed myself capable of doing -- stood up in the church, and made myself the public talk for weeks. But having once consented, I don't submit to these fancies without good reason. Marry him you must after this
Do you think I wish to do otherwise for one moment
I know how wrong it was of me to love him, but don't pain me by talking like that, aunt! You would not have had me stay there with him, would you?-- and your house is the only home I have to return to. He says we can be married in a day or two
I wish he had never seen you
Very well; then I will be the miserablest woman in the world, and not let him see me again. No, I won't have him
It is too late to speak so. Come with me. I am going to the inn to see if he has returned. Of course I shall get to the bottom of this story at once. Mr. Wildeve must not suppose he can play tricks upon me, or any belonging to me
It was not that. The license was wrong, and he couldn't get another the same day. He will tell you in a moment how it was, if he comes
Why didn't he bring you back
That was me
When I found we could not be married I didn't like to come back with him, and I was very ill. Then I saw Diggory Venn, and was glad to get him to take me home. I cannot explain it any better, and you must be angry with me if you will
I shall see about that
Mr. Wildeve, Engineer
He seems to be at home
Must I come in, too, aunt
I suppose not; it would be wrong
You must come, certainly -- to confront him, so that he may make no false representations to me. We shall not be five minutes in the house, and then we'll walk home
Thomasin, then, has reached home. How could you leave me in that way, darling
It was useless to argue with her. She would go, and go alone
But what's the meaning of it all
Take a seat
Well, it was a very stupid mistake, but such mistakes will happen. The license was useless at Anglebury. It was made out for Budmouth, but as I didn't read it I wasn't aware of that
But you had been staying at Anglebury
No. I had been at Budmouth -- till two days ago -- and that was where I had intended to take her; but when I came to fetch her we decided upon Anglebury, forgetting that a new license would be necessary. There was not time to get to Budmouth afterwards
I think you are very much to blame
It was quite my fault we chose Anglebury
I proposed it because I was not known there
I know so well that I am to blame that you need not remind me of it
Such things don't happen for nothing
It is a great slight to me and my family; and when it gets known there will be a very unpleasant time for us. How can she look her friends in the face tomorrow? It is a very great injury, and one I cannot easily forgive. It may even reflect on her character
Nonsense
Will you allow me, aunt, to talk it over alone with Damon for five minutes? Will you, Damon
Certainly, dear
if your aunt will excuse us
It is killing me, this, Damon! I did not mean to part from you in anger at Anglebury this morning; but I was frightened, and hardly knew what I said. I've not let aunt know how much I have suffered to-day; and it is so hard to command my face and voice, and to smile as if it were a slight thing to me; but I try to do so, that she may not be still more indignant with you. I know you could not help it, dear, whatever aunt may think
She is very unpleasant
Yes
and I suppose I seem so now... Damon, what do you mean to do about me
Do about you
Yes. Those who don't like you whisper things which at moments make me doubt you. We mean to marry, I suppose, don't we
Of course we do. We have only to go to Budmouth on Monday, and we marry at once
Then do let us go!-- O Damon, what you make me say
Here am I asking you to marry me, when by rights you ought to be on your knees imploring me, your cruel mistress, not to refuse you, and saying it would break your heart if I did. I used to think it would be pretty and sweet like that; but how different
Yes, real life is never at all like that
But I don't care personally if it never takes place
no, I can live without you. It is aunt I think of. She is so proud, and thinks so much of her family respectability, that she will be cut down with mortification if this story should get abroad before -- it is done. My cousin Clym, too, will be much wounded
Then he will be very unreasonable. In fact, you are all rather unreasonable
I never mean to be, if I can help it. I merely feel that you have my aunt to some extent in your power at last
As a matter of justice it is almost due to me
Think what I have gone through to win her consent; the insult that it is to any man to have the banns forbidden: the double insult to a man unlucky enough to be cursed with sensitiveness, and blue demons, and Heaven knows what, as I am. I can never forget those banns. A harsher man would rejoice now in the power I have of turning upon your aunt by going no further in the business
This is merely a reflection you know. I have not the least intention to refuse to complete the marriage, Tamsie mine -- I could not bear it
You could not, I know
You, who cannot bear the sight of pain in even an insect, or any disagreeable sound, or unpleasant smell even, will not long cause pain to me and mine
I will not, if I can help it
Your hand upon it, Damon
Ah, by my crown, what's that
What does it mean -- it is not skimmity-riding, I hope
Of course not; no, it is that the heath-folk have come to sing to us a welcome. This is intolerable
He told' her that she' was the joy' of his life'. And if' she'd con-sent' he would make her his wife'; She could' not refuse' him; to church' so they went', Young Will was forgot', and young Sue' was content'; And then' was she kiss'd' and set down' on his knee', No man' in the world' was so lov'-ing as he
Thomasin, Thomasin
here's a pretty exposure! Let us escape at once. Come
Stop
We are regularly besieged. There are fifty of them out there if there's one. You stay in this room with Thomasin; I'll go out and face them. You must stay now, for my sake, till they are gone, so that it may seem as if all was right. Come, Tamsie dear, don't go making a scene -- we must marry after this; that you can see as well as I. Sit still, that's all -- and don't speak much. I'll manage them. Blundering fools
Here's welcome to the newmade couple, and God bless 'em
Thank you
We be not here afore Mrs. Yeobright after all
We struck down across, d'ye see, Mr. Wildeve, and she went round by the path
And I see the young bride's little head
Not quite settled in yet -- well, well, there's plenty of time
That's a drop of the right sort, I can see
Yes
'tis some old mead. I hope you will like it
O ay
There isn't a prettier drink under the sun
I'll take my oath there isn't
All that can be said against mead is that 'tis rather heady, and apt to lie about a man a good while. But tomorrow's Sunday, thank God
I feel'd for all the world like some bold soldier after I had had some once
You shall feel so again
Cups or glasses, gentlemen
Well, if you don't mind, we'll have the beaker, and pass 'en round; 'tis better than heling it out in dribbles
Jown the slippery glasses
What's the good of a thing that you can't put down in the ashes to warm, hey, neighbours; that's what I ask
Right, Grandfer
Well
'tis a worthy thing to be married, Mr. Wildeve; and the woman you've got is a dimant, so says I. Yes
her father (inclining his head towards the inner room) was as good a feller as ever lived. He always had his great indignation ready against anything underhand
Is that very dangerous
And there were few in these parts that were upsides with him
Whenever a club walked he'd play the clarinet in the band that marched before 'em as if he'd never touched anything but a clarinet all his life. And then, when they got to church door he'd throw down the clarinet, mount the gallery, snatch up the bass-viol, and rozum away as if he'd never played anything but a bass-viol. Folk would say -- folk that knowed what a true stave was --' Surely, surely that's never the same man that I saw handling the clarinet so masterly by now
I can mind it
'Twas a wonderful thing that one body could hold it all and never mix the fingering
There was Kingsbere church likewise
He used to walk over there of a Sunday afternoon to visit his old acquaintance Andrew Brown, the first clarinet there; a good man enough, but rather screechy in his music, if you can mind
A was
And neighbour Yeobright would take Andrey's place for some part of the service, to let Andrey have a bit of a nap, as any friend would naturally do
As any friend would
No sooner was Andrey asleep and the first whiff of neighbour Yeobright's wind had got inside Andrey's clarinet than everyone in church feeled in a moment there was a great soul among 'em. All heads would turn, and they'd say, 'Ah, I thought 'twas he!' One Sunday I can well mind -- a bass-viol day that time, and Yeobright had brought his own. 'Twas the Hundred-and-thirty-third to 'Lydia'; and when they'd come to 'Ran down his beard and o'er his robes its costly moisture shed,' neighbour Yeobright, who had just warmed to his work, drove his bow into them strings that glorious grand that he e'en a'most sawed the bass-viol into two pieces. Every winder in church rattled as if 'twere a thunderstorm. OldPa's on Williams lifted his hands in his great holy surplice as natural as if he'd been in common clothes, and seemed to say to hisself, 'O for such a man in our parish!' But not a soul in Kingsbere could hold a candle to Yeobright
Was it quite safe when the winder shook
He was the last you'd have expected to drop off in the prime of life
Ah, well: he was looking for the earth some months afore he went. At that time women used to run for smocks and gown-pieces at Greenhill Fair, and my wife that is now, being a long-legged slittering maid, hardly husband-high, went with the rest of the maidens, for 'a was a good runner afore she got so heavy. When she came home I said -- we were then just beginning to walk together --' What have ye got, my honey?' 'I've won -- well, I've won -- a gown-piece,' says she, her colours coming up in a moment. 'Tis a smock for a crown, I thought; and so it turned out. Ay, when I think what she'll say to me now without a mossel of red in her face, it do seem strange that 'a wouldn't say such a little thing then... However, then she went on, and that's what made me bring up the story. 'Well, whatever clothes I've won, white or figured, for eyes to see or for eyes not to see' ('a could do a pretty stroke of modesty in those days), 'I'd sooner have lost it than have seen what I have. Poor Mr. Yeobright was took bad directly he reached the fair ground, and was forced to go home again.' That was the last time he ever went out of the parish
A faltered on from one day to another, and then we heard he was gone
D'ye think he had great pain when 'a died
O no: quite different. Nor any pain of mind. He was lucky enough to be God A'mighty's own man
And other folk -- d'ye think 'twill be much pain to 'em, Mister Fairway
That depends on whether they be afeard
I bain't afeard at all, I thank God
I'm glad I bain't, for then 'twon't pain me... I don't think I be afeard -- or if I be I can't help it, and I don't deserve to suffer. I wish I was not afeard at all
Well, what a fess little bonfire that one is, out by Cap'n Vye's! 'Tis burning just the same now as ever, upon my life
It was lighted before ours was
and yet every one in the country round is out afore 'n
Perhaps there's meaning in it
How meaning
He means, sir, that the lonesome dark-eyed creature up there that some say is a witch -- ever I should call a fine young woman such a name -- is always up to some odd conceit or other; and so perhaps 'tis she
I'd be very glad to ask her in wedlock, if she'd hae me, and take the risk of her wild dark eyes ill-wishing me
Don't ye say it, father
Well, be dazed if he who do marry the maid won't hae an uncommon picture for his best parlour
And a partner as deep as the North Star
Well, really, now I think we must be moving
But we'll gie 'em another song
I'm as full of notes as a bird
Thank you, Grandfer
But we will not trouble you now. Some other day must do for that -- when I have a party
Be jown'd if I don't learn ten new songs for't, or I won't learn a line
And you may be sure I won't disappoint ye by biding away, Mr. Wildeve
I quite believe you
Ah -- old Dowden
Is anybody here who can take something to old Dowden
Still waiting, are you, my lady
Yes -- by Heaven, I must go to her, I suppose
The spirit moved them
Ah
I am glad you have come, Miss Eustacia
I don't like biding by myself
Nonsense. I have only been a little way for a walk. I have been gone only twenty minutes
It seemed long
And you have been so many times
Why, I thought you would be pleased to have a bonfire. Are you not much obliged to me for making you one
Yes; but there's nobody here to play wi' me
I suppose nobody has come while I've been away
Nobody except your grandfather: he looked out of doors once for 'ee. I told him you were walking round upon the hill to look at the other bonfires
A good boy
I think I hear him coming again, miss
When are you coming indoors, Eustacia
'Tis almost bedtime. I've been home these two hours, and am tired out. Surely 'tis somewhat childish of you to stay out playing at bonfires so long, and wasting such fuel. My precious thorn roots, the rarest of all firing, that I laid by on purpose for Christmas -- you have burnt 'em nearly all
I promised Johnny a bonfire, and it pleases him not to let it go out just yet
Grandfather, you go in to bed. I shall follow you soon. You like the fire, don't you, Johnny
I don't think I want it any longer
Ungrateful little boy, how can you contradict me? Never shall you have a bonfire again unless you keep it up now. Come, tell me you like to do things for me, and don't deny it
Yes, I do, miss
Stay a little longer and I will give you a crooked six-pence
Put in one piece of wood every two or three minutes, but not too much at once. I am going to walk along the ridge a little longer, but I shall keep on coming to you. And if you hear a frog jump into the pond with a flounce like a stone thrown in, be sure you run and tell me, because it is a sign of rain
Yes, Eustacia
Miss Vye, sir
Miss Vy -- stacia
That will do. Now put in one stick more
Not any flounce into the pond yet, little man
No, Miss Eustacia
Well
I shall soon be going in, and then I will give you the crooked sixpence, and let you go home
Thank'ee, Miss Eustacia
Well
A hop-frog have jumped into the pond. Yes, I heard 'en
Then it is going to rain, and you had better go home. You will not be afraid
No, because I shall hae the crooked sixpence
Yes, here it is. Now run as fast as you can -- not that way -- through the garden here. No other boy in the heath has had such a bonfire as yours
Yes
I have come
You give me no peace. Why do you not leave me alone? I have seen your bonfire all the evening
Of course you have seen my fire
Why shouldn't I have a bonfire on the Fifth of November, like other denizens of the heath
I knew it was meant for me
How did you know it? I have had no word with you since you -- you chose her, and walked about with her, and deserted me entirely, as if I had never been yours life and soul so irretrievably
Eustacia! could I forget that last autumn at this same day of the month and at this same place you lighted exactly such a fire as a signal for me to come and see you? Why should there have been a bonfire again by Captain Vye's house if not for the same purpose
Yes, yes -- I own it
Don't begin speaking to me as you did, Damon; you will drive me to say words I would not wish to say to you. I had given you up, and resolved not to think of you any more; and then I heard the news, and I came out and got the fire ready because I thought that you had been faithful to me
What have you heard to make you think that
That you did not marry her
And I knew it was because you loved me best, and couldn't do it... Damon, you have been cruel to me to go away, and I have said I would never forgive you. I do not think I can forgive you entirely, even now -- it is too much for a woman of any spirit to quite overlook
If I had known you wished to call me up here only to reproach me, I wouldn't have come
But I don't mind it, and I do forgive you now that you have not married her, and have come back to me
Who told you that I had not married her
My grandfather. He took a long walk today, and as he was coming home he overtook some person who told him of a broken-off wedding: he thought it might be yours, and I knew it was
Does anybody else know
I suppose not. Now Damon, do you see why I lit my signal fire? You did not think I would have lit it if I had imagined you to have become the husband of this woman. It is insulting my pride to suppose that
Did you indeed think I believed you were married
Then you wronged me; and upon my life and heart I can hardly bear to recognize that you have such ill thoughts of me! Damon, you are not worthy of me: I see it, and yet I love you. Never mind, let it go -- I must bear your mean opinion as best I may... It is true, is it not
that you could not bring yourself to give me up, and are still going to love me best of all
Yes; or why should I have come
Not that fidelity will be any great merit in me after your kind speech about my unworthiness, which should have been said by myself if by anybody, and comes with an ill grace from you. However, the curse of inflammability is upon me, and I must live under it, and take any snub from a woman. It has brought me down from engineering to innkeeping: what lower stage it has in store for me I have yet to learn
Have you seen anything better than that in your travels
No
Not even on the shoulders of Thomasin
Thomasin is a pleasing and innocent woman
That's nothing to do with it
We will leave her out; there are only you and me now to think of
Must I go on weakly confessing to you things a woman ought to conceal; and own that no words can express how gloomy I have been because of that dreadful belief I held till two hours ago -- that you had quite deserted me
I am sorry I caused you that pain
But perhaps it is not wholly because of you that I get gloomy
It is in my nature to feel like that. It was born in my blood, I suppose
Hypochondriasis
Or else it was coming into this wild heath. I was happy enough at Budmouth. O the times, O the days at Budmouth! But Egdon will be brighter again now
I hope it will
Do you know the consequence of this recall to me, my old darling? I shall come to see you again as before, at Rainbarrow
Of course you will
And yet I declare that until I got here tonight I intended, after this one good-bye, never to meet you again
I don't thank you for that
You may come again to Rainbarrow if you like, but you won't see me; and you may call, but I shall not listen; and you may tempt me, but I won't give myself to you any more
You have said as much before, sweet; but such natures as yours don't so easily adhere to their words. Neither, for the matter of that, do such natures as mine
This is the pleasure I have won by my trouble
Why did I try to recall you? Damon, a strange warring takes place in my mind occasionally. I think when I become calm after your woundings, 'Do I embrace a cloud of common fog after all?' You are a chameleon, and now you are at your worst colour. Go home, or I shall hate you
Yes, I will go home. Do you mean to see me again
If you own to me that the wedding is broken off because you love me best
I don't think it would be good policy
You would get to know the extent of your power too clearly
But tell me
You know
Where is she now
I don't know. I prefer not to speak of her to you. I have not yet married her; I have come in obedience to your call. That is enough
I merely lit that fire because I was dull, and thought I would get a little excitement by calling you up and triumphing over you as the Witch of Endor called up Samuel. I determined you should come; and you have come! I have shown my power. A mile and half hither, and a mile and half back again to your home -- three miles in the dark for me. Have I not shown my power
I know you too well, my Eustacia; I know you too well. There isn't a note in you which I don't know; and that hot little bosom couldn't play such a coldblooded trick to save its life. I saw a woman on Rainbarrow at dusk looking down towards my house. I think I drew out you before you drew out me
O no
What did you mean by that
Perhaps I may kiss your hand
No, you may not
Then I may shake your hand
No
Then I wish you good night without caring for either. Good-bye, good-bye
Nothing can embellish a beautiful face more than a narrow band drawn over the brow
a populous solitude
O deliver my heart from this fearful gloom and loneliness; send me great love from somewhere, else I shall die
Two he'th-croppers down here
I have never known 'em come down so far afore
How I wish 'twas only a gipsy
Who be ye
Johnny Nunsuch, master
What were you doing up there
I don't know
Watching me, I suppose
Yes, master
What did you watch me for
Because I was coming home from Miss Vye's bonfire
Beest hurt
No
Why, yes, you be: your hand is bleeding. Come under my tilt and let me tie it up
Please let me look for my sixpence
How did you come by that
Miss Vye gied it to me for keeping up her bonfire
My eyes have got foggy-like -- please may I sit down, master
To be sure, poor chap. 'Tis enough to make you feel fainty. Sit on that bundle
I think I'll go home now, master
You are rather afraid of me. Do you know what I be
Yes
Well, what
The reddleman
Yes, that's what I be. Though there's more than one. You little children think there's only one cuckoo, one fox, one giant, one devil, and one reddleman, when there's lots of us all
Is there? You won't carry me off in your bags, will ye, master? 'Tis said that the reddleman will sometimes
Nonsense. All that reddlemen do is sell reddle. You see all these bags at the back of my cart? They are not full of little boys -- only full of red stuff
Was you born a reddleman
No, I took to it. I should be as white as you if I were to give up the trade -- that is, I should be white in time -- perhaps six months: not at first, because 'tis grow'd into my skin and won't wash out. Now, you'll never be afraid of a reddleman again, will ye
No, never. Willy Orchard said he seed a red ghost here t'other day -- perhaps that was you
I was here t'other day
Were you making that dusty light I saw by now
Oh yes: I was beating out some bags. And have you had a good bonfire up there? I saw the light. Why did Miss Vye want a bonfire so bad that she should give you sixpence to keep it up
I don't know. I was tired, but she made me bide and keep up the fire just the same, while she kept going up across Rainbarrow way
And how long did that last
Until a hopfrog jumped into the pond
A hopfrog
Hopfrogs don't jump into ponds this time of year
They do, for I heard one
Certain-sure
Yes. She told me afore that I should hear'n; and so I did. They say she's clever and deep, and perhaps she charmed 'en to come
And what then
Then I came down here, and I was afeard, and I went back; but I didn't like to speak to her, because of the gentleman, and I came on here again
A gentleman -- ah! What did she say to him, my man
Told him she supposed he had not married the other woman because he liked his old sweetheart best; and things like that
What did the gentleman say to her, my sonny
He only said he did like her best, and how he was coming to see her again under Rainbarrow o' nights
Ha
That's the secret o't
My man, don't you be afraid
I forgot you were here. That's only a curious way reddlemen have of going mad for a moment; but they don't hurt anybody. And what did the lady say then
I can't mind. Please, Master Reddleman, may I go home-along now
Ay, to be sure you may. I'll go a bit of ways with you
The reddleman is coming for you
Thomasin Yeobright
Wish to consult me on the matter
Consult me? It is an indignity to me to talk so: I won't bear it any longer
I have loved you, and have shown you that I loved you, much to my regret; and yet you can come and say in that frigid way that you wish to consult with me whether it would not be better to marry Thomasin. Better -- of course it would be. Marry her: she is nearer to your own position in life than I am
Yes, yes; that's very well
But we must look at things as they are. Whatever blame may attach to me for having brought it about, Thomasin's position is at present much worse than yours. I simply tell you that I am in a strait
But you shall not tell me! You must see that it is only harassing me. Damon, you have not acted well; you have sunk in my opinion. You have not valued my courtesy -- the courtesy of a lady in loving you -- who used to think of far more ambitious things. But it was Thomasin's fault. She won you away from me, and she deserves to suffer for it. Where is she staying now? Not that I care, nor where I am myself. Ah, if I were dead and gone how glad she would be! Where is she, I ask
Thomasin is now staying at her aunt's shut up in a bedroom, and keeping out of everybody's sight
I don't think you care much about her even now
for if you did you wouldn't talk so coolly about her. Do you talk so coolly to her about me? Ah, I expect you do! Why did you originally go away from me? I don't think I can ever forgive you, except on one condition, that whenever you desert me, you come back again, sorry that you served me so
I never wish to desert you
I do not thank you for that. I should hate it to be all smooth. Indeed, I think I like you to desert me a little once now and then. Love is the dismallest thing where the lover is quite honest. O, it is a shame to say so; but it is true
My low spirits begin at the very idea. Don't you offer me tame love, or away you go
I wish Tamsie were not such a confoundedly good little woman
so that I could be faithful to you without injuring a worthy person. It is I who am the sinner after all; I am not worth the little finger of either of you
But you must not sacrifice yourself to her from any sense of justice
If you do not love her it is the most merciful thing in the long run to leave her as she is. That's always the best way. There, now I have been unwomanly, I suppose. When you have left me I am always angry with myself for things that I have said to you
Since meeting you last, it has occurred to me once or twice that perhaps it was not for love of me you did not marry her. Tell me, Damon: I'll try to bear it. Had I nothing whatever to do with the matter
Do you press me to tell
Yes, I must know. I see I have been too ready to believe in my own power
Well, the immediate reason was that the license would not do for the place, and before I could get another she ran away. Up to that point you had nothing to do with it. Since then her aunt has spoken to me in a tone which I don't at all like
Yes, yes! I am nothing in it -- I am nothing in it. You only trifle with me. Heaven, what can I, Eustacia Vye, be made of to think so much of you
Nonsense; do not be so passionate... Eustacia, how we roved among these bushes last year, when the hot days had got cool, and the shades of the hills kept us almost invisible in the hollows
Yes; and how I used to laugh at you for daring to look up to me! But you have well made me suffer for that since
Yes, you served me cruelly enough until I thought I had found some one fairer than you. A blessed find for me, Eustacia
Do you still think you found somebody fairer
Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. The scales are balanced so nicely that a feather would turn them
But don't you really care whether I meet you or whether I don't
I care a little, but not enough to break my rest
No, all that's past. I find there are two flowers where I thought there was only one. Perhaps there are three, or four, or any number as good as the first... Mine is a curious fate. Who would have thought that all this could happen to me
Do you love me now
Who can say
Tell me; I will know it
I do, and I do not
That is, I have my times and my seasons. One moment you are too tall, another moment you are too do-nothing, another too melancholy, another too dark, another I don't know what, except -- that you are not the whole world to me that you used to be, my dear. But you are a pleasant lady to know, and nice to meet, and I dare say as sweet as ever -- almost
I am for a walk, and this is my way
Well, I can do worse than follow you
You know you can't do otherwise, for all your moods and changes
Say what you will; try as you may; keep away from me all that you can -- you will never forget me. You will love me all your life long. You would jump to marry me
So I would
Such strange thoughts as I've had from time to time, Eustacia; and they come to me this moment. You hate the heath as much as ever; that I know
I do
'Tis my cross, my shame, and will be my death
I abhor it too
How mournfully the wind blows round us now
God, how lonely it is
What are picturesque ravines and mists to us who see nothing else? Why should we stay here? Will you go with me to America? I have kindred in Wisconsin
That wants consideration
It seems impossible to do well here, unless one were a wild bird or a landscape-painter. Well
Give me time
America is so far away. Are you going to walk with me a little way
My Tamsie
What can be done? Yes, I will see that Eustacia Vye
Ah, reddleman -- you here? Have a glass of grog
I suppose the young lady is not up yet
Not quite yet. Folks never call upon ladies at this time of day
Then I'll step outside
If she is willing to see me, will she please send out word, and I'll come in
Yes, walk beside me
I have made so bold, miss, as to step across and tell you some strange news which has come to my ears about that man
Ah! what man
Do you mean Mr. Wildeve
Yes, there is trouble in a household on account of him, and I have come to let you know of it, because I believe you might have power to drive it away
I? What is the trouble
It is quite a secret. It is that he may refuse to marry Thomasin Yeobright after all
I do not wish to listen to this, and you must not expect me to interfere
But, miss, you will hear one word
I cannot. I am not interested in the marriage, and even if I were I could not compel Mr. Wildeve to do my bidding
As the only lady on the heath I think you might
This is how the case stands. Mr. Wildeve would marry Thomasin at once, and make all matters smooth, if so be there were not another woman in the case. This other woman is some person he has picked up with, and meets on the heath occasionally, I believe. He will never marry her, and yet through her he may never marry the woman who loves him dearly. Now, if you, miss, who have so much sway over us men-folk, were to insist that he should treat your young neighbour Tamsin with honourable kindness and give up the other woman, he would perhaps do it, and save her a good deal of misery
Ah, my life
You think too much of my influence over men-folk indeed, reddleman. If I had such a power as you imagine I would go straight and use it for the good of anybody who has been kind to me -- which Thomasin Yeobright has not particularly, to my knowledge
Can it be that you really don't know of it -- how much she had always thought of you
I have never heard a word of it. Although we live only two miles apart I have never been inside her aunt's house in my life
Well, leaving that out of the question, 'tis in your power, I assure you, Miss Vye, to do a great deal of good to another woman
Your comeliness is law with Mr. Wildeve. It is law with all men who see 'ee. They say, 'This well-favoured lady coming -- what's her name? How handsome!' Handsomer than Thomasin Yeobright
God forgive a rascal for lying
Many women are lovelier than Thomasin
so not much attaches to that
He is a man who notices the looks of women, and you could twist him to your will like withywind, if you only had the mind
Surely what she cannot do who has been so much with him I cannot do living up here away from him
Miss Vye
Why do you say that -- as if you doubted me
The idea of your speaking in that tone to me
What could have been in your mind to lead you to speak like that
Miss Vye, why should you make believe that you don't know this man?-- I know why, certainly. He is beneath you, and you are ashamed
You are mistaken. What do you mean
I was at the meeting by Rainbarrow last night and heard every word
The woman that stands between Wildeve and Thomasin is yourself
I am unwell
No -- it is not that -- I am not in a humour to hear you further. Leave me, please
I must speak, Miss Vye, in spite of paining you. What I would put before you is this. However it may come about -- whether she is to blame, or you -- her case is without doubt worse than yours. Your giving up Mr. Wildeve will be a real advantage to you, for how could you marry him? Now she cannot get off so easily -- everybody will blame her if she loses him. Then I ask you -- not because her right is best, but because her situation is worst -- to give him up to her
No -- I won't, I won't
Nobody has ever been served so! It was going on well -- I will not be beaten down -- by an inferior woman like her. It is very well for you to come and plead for her, but is she not herself the cause of all her own trouble? Am I not to show favour to any person I may choose without asking permission of a parcel of cottagers? She has come between me and my inclination, and now that she finds herself rightly punished she gets you to plead for her
Indeed
she knows nothing whatever about it. It is only I who ask you to give him up. It will be better for her and you both. People will say bad things if they find out that a lady secretly meets a man who has ill-used another woman
I have NOT injured her -- he was mine before he was hers! He came back -- because -- because he liked me best
But I lose all self-respect in talking to you. What am I giving way to
I can keep secrets
You need not fear. I am the only man who knows of your meetings with him. There is but one thing more to speak of, and then I will be gone. I heard you say to him that you hated living here -- that Egdon Heath was a jail to you
I did say so. There is a sort of beauty in the scenery, I know; but it is a jail to me. The man you mention does not save me from that feeling, though he lives here. I should have cared nothing for him had there been a better person near
As we have now opened our minds a bit, miss
I'll tell you what I have got to propose. Since I have taken to the reddle trade I travel a good deal, as you know
And in my travels I go near Budmouth. Now Budmouth is a wonderful place -- wonderful -- a great salt sheening sea bending into the land like a bow -- thousands of gentlepeople walking up and down -- bands of music playing -- officers by sea and officers by land walking among the rest -- out of every ten folks you meet nine of 'em in love
I know it
I know Budmouth better than you. I was born there. My father came to be a military musician there from abroad. Ah, my soul, Budmouth! I wish I was there now
If you were, miss
in a week's time you would think no more of Wildeve than of one of those he'th-croppers that we see yond. Now, I could get you there
How
My uncle has been for five and twenty years the trusty man of a rich widow-lady who has a beautiful house facing the sea. This lady has become old and lame, and she wants a young company-keeper to read and sing to her, but can't get one to her mind to save her life, though she've advertised in the papers, and tried half a dozen. She would jump to get you, and uncle would make it all easy
I should have to work, perhaps
No, not real work: you'd have a little to do, such as reading and that. You would not be wanted till New Year's Day
I knew it meant work
I confess there would be a trifle to do in the way of amusing her; but though idle people might call it work, working people would call it play. Think of the company and the life you'd lead, miss; the gaiety you'd see, and the gentleman you'd marry. My uncle is to inquire for a trustworthy young lady from the country, as she don't like town girls
It is to wear myself out to please her! and I won't go. O, if I could live in a gay town as a lady should, and go my own ways, and do my own doings, I'd give the wrinkled half of my life! Yes, reddleman, that would I
Help me to get Thomasin happy, miss, and the chance shall be yours
Chance --'tis no chance
What can a poor man like you offer me, indeed?-- I am going indoors. I have nothing more to say. Don't your horses want feeding, or your reddlebags want mending, or don't you want to find buyers for your goods, that you stay idling here like this
I will never give him up -- never
Then
you may as well leave it alone, Mrs. Yeobright
I half think so myself
But nothing else remains to be done besides pressing the question upon him
I should like to say a word first
Mr. Wildeve is not the only man who has asked Thomasin to marry him; and why should not another have a chance? Mrs. Yeobright, I should be glad to marry your niece, and would have done it any time these last two years. There, now it is out, and I have never told anybody before but herself
Looks are not everything
There's many a calling that don't bring in so much as mine, if it comes to money; and perhaps I am not so much worse off than Wildeve. There is nobody so poor as these professional fellows who have failed; and if you shouldn't like my redness -- well, I am not red by birth, you know; I only took to this business for a freak; and I might turn my hand to something else in good time
I am much obliged to you for your interest in my niece; but I fear there would be objections. More than that, she is devoted to this man
True; or I shouldn't have done what I have this morning
Otherwise there would be no pain in the case, and you would not see me going to his house now. What was Thomasin's answer when you told her of your feelings
She wrote that you would object to me; and other things
She was in a measure right. You must not take this unkindly: I merely state it as a truth. You have been good to her, and we do not forget it. But as she was unwilling on her own account to be your wife, that settles the point without my wishes being concerned
Yes. But there is a difference between then and now, ma'am. She is distressed now, and I have thought that if you were to talk to her about me, and think favourably of me yourself, there might be a chance of winning her round, and getting her quite independent of this Wildeve's backward and forward play, and his not knowing whether he'll have her or no
Thomasin thinks, and I think with her, that she ought to be Wildeve's wife, if she means to appear before the world without a slur upon her name. If they marry soon, everybody will believe that an accident did really prevent the wedding. If not, it may cast a shade upon her character -- at any rate make her ridiculous. In short, if it is anyhow possible they must marry now
I thought that till half an hour ago. But, after all, why should her going off with him to Anglebury for a few hours do her any harm? Anybody who knows how pure she is will feel any such thought to be quite unjust. I have been trying this morning to help on this marriage with Wildeve -- yes, I, ma'am -- in the belief that I ought to do it, because she was so wrapped up in him. But I much question if I was right, after all. However, nothing came of it. And now I offer myself
I fear I must go on
I do not see that anything else can be done
I have thought it my duty to call today. A new proposal has been made to me, which has rather astonished me. It will affect Thomasin greatly; and I have decided that it should at least be mentioned to you
Yes? What is it
It is, of course, in reference to her future. You may not be aware that another man has shown himself anxious to marry Thomasin. Now, though I have not encouraged him yet, I cannot conscientiously refuse him a chance any longer. I don't wish to be short with you; but I must be fair to him and to her
Who is the man
One who has been in love with her longer than she has with you. He proposed to her two years ago. At that time she refused him
Well
He has seen her lately, and has asked me for permission to pay his addresses to her. She may not refuse him twice
What is his name
He is a man Thomasin likes
and one whose constancy she respects at least. It seems to me that what she refused then she would be glad to get now. She is much annoyed at her awkward position
She never once told me of this old lover
The gentlest women are not such fools as to show EVERY card
Well, if she wants him I suppose she must have him
It is easy enough to say that; but you don't see the difficulty. He wants her much more than she wants him; and before I can encourage anything of the sort I must have a clear understanding from you that you will not interfere to injure an arrangement which I promote in the belief that it is for the best. Suppose, when they are engaged, and everything is smoothly arranged for their marriage, that you should step between them and renew your suit? You might not win her back, but you might cause much unhappiness
Of course I should do no such thing
But they are not engaged yet. How do you know that Thomasin would accept him
That's a question I have carefully put to myself; and upon the whole the probabilities are in favour of her accepting him in time. I flatter myself that I have some influence over her. She is pliable, and I can be strong in my recommendations of him
And in your disparagement of me at the same time
Well, you may depend upon my not praising you
And if this seems like manoeuvring, you must remember that her position is peculiar, and that she has been hardly used. I shall also be helped in making the match by her own desire to escape from the humiliation of her present state; and a woman's pride in these cases will lead her a very great way. A little managing may be required to bring her round; but I am equal to that, provided that you agree to the one thing indispensable; that is, to make a distinct declaration that she is to think no more of you as a possible husband. That will pique her into accepting him
I can hardly say that just now, Mrs. Yeobright. It is so sudden
And so my whole plan is interfered with! It is very inconvenient that you refuse to help my family even to the small extent of saying distinctly you will have nothing to do with us
I confess I was not prepared for this
Of course I'll give her up if you wish, if it is necessary. But I thought I might be her husband
We have heard that before
Now, Mrs. Yeobright, don't let us disagree. Give me a fair time. I don't want to stand in the way of any better chance she may have; only I wish you had let me know earlier. I will write to you or call in a day or two. Will that suffice
Yes
provided you promise not to communicate with Thomasin without my knowledge
I promise that
I hear; wait for me
You would not have kept me so long had you known what I come about
Still, you are worth waiting for
What has happened
I did not know you were in trouble. I too am gloomy enough
I am not in trouble
It is merely that affairs have come to a head, and I must take a clear course
What course is that
And can you forget so soon what I proposed to you the other night? Why, take you from this place, and carry you away with me abroad
I have not forgotten. But why have you come so unexpectedly to repeat the question, when you only promised to come next Saturday? I thought I was to have plenty of time to consider
Yes, but the situation is different now
Explain to me
I don't want to explain, for I may pain you
But I must know the reason of this hurry
It is simply my ardour, dear Eustacia. Everything is smooth now
Then why are you so ruffled
I am not aware of it. All is as it should be. Mrs. Yeobright -- but she is nothing to us
Ah, I knew she had something to do with it! Come, I don't like reserve
No -- she has nothing. She only says she wishes me to give up Thomasin because another man is anxious to marry her. The woman, now she no longer needs me, actually shows off
You are in the awkward position of an official who is no longer wanted
It seems so. But I have not yet seen Thomasin
And that irritates you. Don't deny it, Damon. You are actually nettled by this slight from an unexpected quarter
Well
And you come to get me because you cannot get her. This is certainly a new position altogether. I am to be a stop-gap
Please remember that I proposed the same thing the other day
Well, darling, you agree
If it could be London, or even Budmouth, instead of America
Well, I will think. It is too great a thing for me to decide offhand. I wish I hated the heath less -- or loved you more
You can be painfully frank. You loved me a month ago warmly enough to go anywhere with me
And you loved Thomasin
Yes, perhaps that was where the reason lay
I don't hate her now
Exactly. The only thing is that you can no longer get her
Come -- no taunts, Eustacia, or we shall quarrel. If you don't agree to go with me, and agree shortly, I shall go by myself
Or try Thomasin again. Damon, how strange it seems that you could have married her or me indifferently, and only have come to me because I am -- cheapest! Yes, yes -- it is true. There was a time when I should have exclaimed against a man of that sort, and been quite wild; but it is all past now
Will you go, dearest? Come secretly with me to Bristol, marry me, and turn our backs upon this dog-hole of England for ever? Say Yes
I want to get away from here at almost any cost
but I don't like to go with you. Give me more time to decide
I have already
Well, I give you one more week
A little longer, so that I may tell you decisively. I have to consider so many things. Fancy Thomasin being anxious to get rid of you! I cannot forget it
Never mind that. Say Monday week. I will be here precisely at this time
Let it be at Rainbarrow
This is too near home; my grandfather may be walking out
Thank you, dear. On Monday week at this time I will be at the Barrow. Till then good-bye
Good-bye. No, no, you must not touch me now. Shaking hands is enough till I have made up my mind
I suppose you have heard the Egdon news, Eustacia
The men have been talking about it at the Woman as if it were of national importance
I have heard none
Young Clym Yeobright, as they call him, is coming home next week to spend Christmas with his mother. He is a fine fellow by this time, it seems. I suppose you remember him
I never saw him in my life
Ah, true; he left before you came here. I well remember him as a promising boy
Where has he been living all these years
In that rookery of pomp and vanity, Paris, I believe." 

BOOK SECOND


THE ARRIVAL
That lad ought never to have left home. His father's occupation would have suited him best, and the boy should have followed on. I don't believe in these new moves in families. My father was a sailor, so was I, and so should my son have been if I had had one
The place he's been living at is Paris
A good many of us knew as well as He before long
I lived seven years under water on account of it in my boyhood -- in that damned surgery of the _Triumph_, seeing men brought down to the cockpit with their legs and arms blown to Jericho... And so the young man has settled in Paris. Manager to a diamond merchant, or some such thing, is he not
Yes, sir, that's it. 'Tis a blazing great business that he belongs to, so I've heard his mother say -- like a king's palace, as far as diments go
I can well mind when he left home
'Tis a good thing for the feller
A sight of times better to be selling diments than nobbling about here
It must cost a good few shillings to deal at such a place
A good few indeed, my man
Yes, you may make away with a deal of money and be neither drunkard nor glutton
They say, too, that Clym Yeobright is become a real perusing man, with the strangest notions about things. There, that's because he went to school early, such as the school was
Strange notions, has he
Ah, there's too much of that sending to school in these days! It only does harm. Every gatepost and barn's door you come to is sure to have some bad word or other chalked upon it by the young rascals: a woman can hardly pass for shame some times. If they'd never been taught how to write they wouldn't have been able to scribble such villainy. Their fathers couldn't do it, and the country was all the better for it
Now, I should think, cap'n, that Miss Eustacia had about as much in her head that comes from books as anybody about here
Perhaps if Miss Eustacia, too, had less romantic nonsense in her head it would be better for her
I say, Sam
she and Clym Yeobright would make a very pretty pigeon-pair -- hey? If they wouldn't I'll be dazed! Both of one mind about niceties for certain, and learned in print, and always thinking about high doctrine -- there couldn't be a better couple if they were made o' purpose. Clym's family is as good as hers. His father was a farmer, that's true; but his mother was a sort of lady, as we know. Nothing would please me better than to see them two man and wife
They'd look very natty, arm-in-crook together, and their best clothes on, whether or no, if he's at all the well-favoured fellow he used to be
They would, Humphrey. Well, I should like to see the chap terrible much after so many years. If I knew for certain when he was coming I'd stroll out three or four miles to meet him and help carry anything for'n; though I suppose he's altered from the boy he was. They say he can talk French as fast as a maid can eat blackberries; and if so, depend upon it we who have stayed at home shall seem no more than scroff in his eyes
Coming across the water to Budmouth by steamer, isn't he
Yes; but how he's coming from Budmouth I don't know
That's a bad trouble about his cousin Thomasin. I wonder such a nice-notioned fellow as Clym likes to come home into it. What a nunnywatch we were in, to be sure, when we heard they weren't married at all, after singing to 'em as man and wife that night! Be dazed if I should like a relation of mine to have been made such a fool of by a man. It makes the family look small
Yes. Poor maid, her heart has ached enough about it. Her health is suffering from it, I hear, for she will bide entirely indoors. We never see her out now, scampering over the furze with a face as red as a rose, as she used to do
I've heard she wouldn't have Wildeve now if he asked her
You have? 'Tis news to me
Castle of Indolence
Now a few russets, Tamsin. He used to like them almost as well as ribstones
Dear Clym, I wonder how your face looks now
If he could have been dear to you in another way
this might have been a happy meeting
Is there any use in saying what can do no good, aunt
Yes
To thoroughly fill the air with the past misfortune, so that other girls may take warning and keep clear of it
I am a warning to others, just as thieves and drunkards and gamblers are
What a class to belong to! Do I really belong to them? 'Tis absurd! Yet why, aunt, does everybody keep on making me think that I do, by the way they behave towards me? Why don't people judge me by my acts? Now, look at me as I kneel here, picking up these apples -- do I look like a lost woman?... I wish all good women were as good as I
Strangers don't see you as I do
they judge from false report. Well, it is a silly job, and I am partly to blame
How quickly a rash thing can be done
As soon as you have finished getting the apples
come down, and we'll go for the holly. There is nobody on the heath this afternoon, and you need not fear being stared at. We must get some berries, or Clym will never believe in our preparations
Don't scratch your face
Will you walk with me to meet him this evening
I should like to. Else it would seem as if I had forgotten him
Not that that would matter much; I belong to one man; nothing can alter that. And that man I must marry, for my pride's sake
I am afraid
Ah, you think, 'That weak girl -- how is she going to get a man to marry her when she chooses?' But let me tell you one thing, aunt: Mr. Wildeve is not a profligate man, any more than I am an improper woman. He has an unfortunate manner, and doesn't try to make people like him if they don't wish to do it of their own accord
Thomasin
do you think you deceive me in your defence of Mr. Wildeve
How do you mean
I have long had a suspicion that your love for him has changed its colour since you have found him not to be the saint you thought him, and that you act a part to me
He wished to marry me, and I wish to marry him
Now, I put it to you: would you at this present moment agree to be his wife if that had not happened to entangle you with him
Aunt
I have, I think, a right to refuse to answer that question
Yes, you have
You may think what you choose. I have never implied to you by word or deed that I have grown to think otherwise of him, and I never will. And I shall marry him
Well, wait till he repeats his offer. I think he may do it, now that he knows -- something I told him. I don't for a moment dispute that it is the most proper thing for you to marry him. Much as I have objected to him in bygone days, I agree with you now, you may be sure. It is the only way out of a false position, and a very galling one
What did you tell him
That he was standing in the way of another lover of yours
Aunt
what DO you mean
Don't be alarmed; it was my duty. I can say no more about it now, but when it is over I will tell you exactly what I said, and why I said it
And you will keep the secret of my would-be marriage from Clym for the present
I have given my word to. But what is the use of it? He must soon know what has happened. A mere look at your face will show him that something is wrong
Now, hearken to me
Tell him nothing. If he finds out that I am not worthy to be his cousin, let him. But, since he loved me once, we will not pain him by telling him my trouble too soon. The air is full of the story, I know; but gossips will not dare to speak of it to him for the first few days. His closeness to me is the very thing that will hinder the tale from reaching him early. If I am not made safe from sneers in a week or two I will tell him myself
Very well. He should by rights have been told at the time that the wedding was going to be. He will never forgive you for your secrecy
Yes, he will, when he knows it was because I wished to spare him, and that I did not expect him home so soon. And you must not let me stand in the way of your Christmas party. Putting it off would only make matters worse
Of course I shall not. I do not wish to show myself beaten before all Egdon, and the sport of a man like Wildeve. We have enough berries now, I think, and we had better take them home. By the time we have decked the house with this and hung up the mistletoe, we must think of starting to meet him
Good night
good night
Why is it that we are never friendly with the Yeobrights
I wish we were. They seem to be very nice people
Be hanged if I know why
I liked the old man well enough, though he was as rough as a hedge. But you would never have cared to go there, even if you might have, I am well sure
Why shouldn't I
Your town tastes would find them far too countrified. They sit in the kitchen, drink mead and elderwine, and sand the floor to keep it clean. A sensible way of life; but would you like it
I thought Mrs. Yeobright was a ladylike woman? A curate's daughter, was she not
Yes; but she was obliged to live as her husband did; and I suppose she has taken kindly to it by this time. Ah, I recollect that I once accidentally offended her, and I have never seen her since
It must be here
O that I had seen his face
O that I had seen his face
'Twas meant for Mr. Yeobright
having a fancy for
Naturally
Who's there
Please, Cap'n Vye, will you let us
I cannot allow you to come in so boldly. You should have waited
The cap'n said I might come in without any fuss
Oh, did he
What do you want, Charley
Please will your grandfather lend us his fuel-house to try over our parts in, tonight at seven o'clock
What, are you one of the Egdon mummers for this year
Yes, miss. The cap'n used to let the old mummers practise here
I know it. Yes, you may use the fuel-house if you like
Saint George
Well, ye be as well up to it as ever ye will be
Not that such mumming would have passed in our time. Harry as the Saracen should strut a bit more, and John needn't holler his inside out. Beyond that perhaps you'll do. Have you got all your clothes ready
We shall by Monday
Your first outing will be Monday night, I suppose
Yes. At Mrs. Yeobright's
Oh, Mrs. Yeobright's. What makes her want to see ye? I should think a middle-aged woman was tired of mumming
She's got up a bit of a party, because 'tis the first Christmas that her son Clym has been home for a long time
To be sure, to be sure -- her party! I am going myself. I almost forgot it, upon my life
Charley, come here
Which part do you play, Charley -- the Turkish Knight, do you not
Yes, miss, the Turkish Knight
Is yours a long part
Nine speeches, about
Can you repeat them to me? If so I should like to hear them
Here come I, a Turkish Knight, Who learnt in Turkish land to fight
Well, you be a clever lady
I've been three weeks learning mine
I have heard it before
Now, would you do anything to please me, Charley
I'd do a good deal, miss
Would you let me play your part for one night
Oh, miss! But your woman's gown -- you couldn't
I can get boy's clothes -- at least all that would be wanted besides the mumming dress. What should I have to give you to lend me your things, to let me take your place for an hour or two on Monday night, and on no account to say a word about who or what I am? You would, of course, have to excuse yourself from playing that night, and to say that somebody -- a cousin of Miss Vye's -- would act for you. The other mummers have never spoken to me in their lives, so that it would be safe enough; and if it were not, I should not mind. Now, what must I give you to agree to this? Half a crown
Five shillings
Money won't do it
What will, then, Charley
You know what you forbade me at the Maypoling, miss
Yes
You wanted to join hands with me in the ring, if I recollect
Half an hour of that, and I'll agree, miss
Half an hour of what
Holding your hand in mine
Make it a quarter of an hour
Yes, Miss Eustacia -- I will, if I may kiss it too. A quarter of an hour. And I'll swear to do the best I can to let you take my place without anybody knowing. Don't you think somebody might know your tongue, miss
It is possible. But I will put a pebble in my mouth to make is less likely. Very well; you shall be allowed to have my hand as soon as you bring the dress and your sword and staff. I don't want you any longer now
Ah
want of an object to live for -- that's all is the matter with me
Here are the things
And now, Miss Eustacia
The payment. It is quite ready. I am as good as my word
Why, there's a glove on it
I have been walking
But, miss
Well -- it is hardly fair
I think I won't use it all up tonight
May I have the other few minutes another time
As you like
But it must be over in a week. Now, there is only one thing I want you to do: to wait while I put on the dress, and then to see if I do my part properly. But let me look first indoors
Now, then
walk down the garden a little way, and when I am ready I'll call you
Did you whistle, Miss Vye
Yes; come in
I must not strike a light till the door is shut, or it may be seen shining. Push your hat into the hole through to the wash-house, if you can feel your way across
It fits pretty well
except that the tunic, or whatever you call it, is long in the sleeve. The bottom of the overalls I can turn up inside. Now pay attention
And now for your excuse to the others
Where do you meet before you go to Mrs. Yeobright's
We thought of meeting here, miss, if you have nothing to say against it. At eight o'clock, so as to get there by nine
Yes. Well, you of course must not appear. I will march in about five minutes late, ready-dressed, and tell them that you can't come. I have decided that the best plan will be for you to be sent somewhere by me, to make a real thing of the excuse. Our two heath-croppers are in the habit of straying into the meads, and tomorrow evening you can go and see if they are gone there. I'll manage the rest. Now you may leave me
Yes, miss. But I think I'll have one minute more of what I am owed, if you don't mind
One minute
There, 'tis all gone; and I didn't mean quite all
You had good measure
Yes, miss. Well, 'tis over, and now I'll get home-along
Twenty minutes after eight by the Quiet Woman, and Charley not come
Ten minutes past by Blooms-End
It wants ten minutes to, by Grandfer Cantle's watch
And 'tis five minutes past by the captain's clock
Here's Charley at last! How late you be, Charley
'Tis not Charley
'Tis a cousin of Miss Vye's, come to take Charley's place from curiosity. He was obliged to go and look for the heath-croppers that have got into the meads, and I agreed to take his place, as he knew he couldn't come back here again tonight. I know the part as well as he
It don't matter -- if you be not too young
I know every word of it, I tell you
Go ahead, lads, with the try-over. I'll challenge any of you to find a mistake in me
Nancy's Fancy
Is there no passage inside the door, then
No
The door opens right upon the front sitting-room, where the spree's going on
So that we cannot open the door without stopping the dance
That's it. Here we must bide till they have done, for they always bolt the back door after dark
They won't be much longer
Devil's Dream
Why does Mrs. Yeobright give parties of this sort
It is not one of her bettermost parlour-parties. She's asked the plain neighbours and workpeople without drawing any lines, just to give 'em a good supper and such like. Her son and she wait upon the folks
I see
'Tis the last strain, I think
A young man and woman have just swung into this corner, and he's saying to her, 'Ah, the pity; 'tis over for us this time, my own
Thank God
Upon my song 'tis another ten minutes for us
Grandfer Cantle is standing in this corner, waiting his turn
Twon't be long; 'tis a six-handed reel
Why not go in, dancing or no? They sent for us
Certainly not
We should burst into the middle of them and stop the dance, and that would be unmannerly
He thinks himself somebody because he has had a bit more schooling than we
You may go to the deuce
Will you tell us one thing
Be you Miss Vye? We think you must be
You may think what you like
But honourable lads will not tell tales upon a lady
We'll say nothing, miss. That's upon our honour
Thank you
Ah, the mummers, the mummers
Clear a space for the mummers
Make room, make room, my gallant boys, And give us space to rhyme; We've come to show Saint George's play, Upon this Christmas time
Here come I, the Valiant Soldier; Slasher is my name
Here come I, a Turkish Knight, Who learnt in Turkish land to fight; I'll fight this man with courage bold: If his blood's hot I'll make it cold
If, then, thou art that Turkish Knight, Draw out thy sword, and let us fight
Here come I, Saint George, the valiant man, With naked sword and spear in hand, Who fought the dragon and brought him to the slaughter, And by this won fair Sabra, the King of Egypt's daughter; What mortal man would dare to stand Before me with my sword in hand
A handsome man
A thoughtful man
Come in, come in
How is it you are so late? Grandfer Cantle has been here ever so long, and we thought you'd have come with him, as you live so near one another
Well, I should have come earlier
I should have come earlier, ma'am
but I know what parties be, and how there's none too much room in folks' houses at such times, so I thought I wouldn't come till you'd got settled a bit
And I thought so too, Mrs. Yeobright
but father there was so eager that he had no manners at all, and left home almost afore 'twas dark. I told him 'twas barely decent in a' old man to come so oversoon; but words be wind
Klk! I wasn't going to bide waiting about, till half the game was over! I'm as light as a kite when anything's going on
Now, you may not believe it
but I should never have knowed this gentleman if I had met him anywhere off his own he'th -- he's altered so much
You too have altered, and for the better, I think Timothy
Master Yeobright, look me over too. I have altered for the better, haven't I, hey
To be sure we will
You haven't changed much
If there's any difference, Grandfer is younger
And yet not my own doing, and I feel no pride in it
But I can't be cured of my vagaries; them I plead guilty to. Yes, Master Cantle always was that, as we know. But I am nothing by the side of you, Mister Clym
Nor any o' us
Really, there would have been nobody here who could have stood as decent second to him, or even third, if I hadn't been a soldier in the Bang-up Locals (as we was called for our smartness
And even as 'tis we all look a little scammish beside him. But in the year four 'twas said there wasn't a finer figure in the whole South Wessex than I, as I looked when dashing past the shop-winders with the rest of our company on the day we ran out o' Budmouth because it was thoughted that Boney had landed round the point. There was I, straight as a young poplar, wi' my firelock, and my bag-net, and my spatter-dashes, and my stock sawing my jaws off, and my accoutrements sheening like the seven stars! Yes, neighbours, I was a pretty sight in my soldiering days. You ought to have seen me in four
'Tis his mother's side where Master Clym's figure comes from, bless ye
I know'd her brothers well. Longer coffins were never made in the whole country of South Wessex, and 'tis said that poor George's knees were crumpled up a little e'en as 'twas
Coffins, where
Have the ghost of one appeared to anybody, Master Fairway
No, no. Don't let your mind so mislead your ears, Christian; and be a man
I will
But now I think o't my shadder last night seemed just the shape of a coffin. What is it a sign of when your shade's like a coffin, neighbours? It can't be nothing to be afeared of, I suppose
Afeared, no
Faith, I was never afeard of nothing except Boney, or I shouldn't ha' been the soldier I was. Yes, 'tis a thousand pities you didn't see me in four
But you will surely have some
None, thank you
He's quite a youngster
and you must excuse him. He's not one of the old set, but have jined us because t'other couldn't come
But he will take something
Try a glass of mead or elder-wine
Yes, you had better try that
It will keep the cold out going home-along
That's right, Tamsie
you have decided to come down. I am glad of it
Hush -- no, no
I only came to speak to you
But why not join us
I cannot. At least I would rather not. I am not well enough, and we shall have plenty of time together now you are going to be home a good long holiday
It isn't nearly so pleasant without you. Are you really ill
Just a little, my old cousin -- here
Ah, mother should have asked somebody else to be present tonight, perhaps
O no, indeed. I merely stepped down, Clym, to ask you
Nobody here respects me
I have an odd opinion
and should like to ask you a question. Are you a woman -- or am I wrong
I am a woman
Do girls often play as mummers now? They never used to
They don't now
Why did you
To get excitement and shake off depression
What depressed you
Life
That's a cause of depression a good many have to put up with
Yes
And do you find excitement
At this moment, perhaps
Then you are vexed at being discovered
Yes; though I thought I might be
I would gladly have asked you to our party had I known you wished to come. Have I ever been acquainted with you in my youth
Never
Won't you come in again, and stay as long as you like
No. I wish not to be further recognized
Well, you are safe with me
I will not intrude upon you longer. It is a strange way of meeting, and I will not ask why I find a cultivated woman playing such a part as this
Well, so much the better: it did not hurt him
O that she had been married to Damon before this
And she would if it hadn't been for me! If I had only known -- if I had only known
Only in search of events, grandfather
Search of events -- one would think you were one of the bucks I knew at one-and-twenty
It is so lonely here
So much the better. If I were living in a town my whole time would be taken up in looking after you. I fully expected you would have been home when I returned from the Woman
I won't conceal what I did. I wanted an adventure, and I went with the mummers. I played the part of the Turkish Knight
No, never? Ha, ha! Good gad! I didn't expect it of you, Eustacia
It was my first performance, and it certainly will be my last. Now I have told you -- and remember it is a secret
Of course. But, Eustacia, you never did -- ha! ha! Dammy, how 'twould have pleased me forty years ago! But remember, no more of it, my girl. You may walk on the heath night or day, as you choose, so that you don't bother me; but no figuring in breeches again
You need have no fear for me, grandpapa
On Egdon Heath
Good morning, miss
Good morning, reddleman
I did not know you were so near. Is your van here too
You remain near this part
Yes, I have business here
Not altogether the selling of reddle
It has nothing to do with that
It has to do with Miss Yeobright
Yes, miss; it is on account of her
On account of your approaching marriage with her
Don't make sport of me, Miss Vye
It isn't true
Certainly not
It was a mere notion of mine
Would you allow me to rest a few minutes in your van? The banks are damp for sitting on
Certainly, miss; I'll make a place for you
That is the best I can do for you
That was Mr. Wildeve who passed, miss
Yes, I saw him coming up the hill
Why should you tell me that
I am glad to hear that you can ask it
And, now I think of it, it agrees with what I saw last night
Ah -- what was that
Mr. Wildeve stayed at Rainbarrow a long time waiting for a lady who didn't come
You waited too, it seems
Yes, I always do. I was glad to see him disappointed. He will be there again tonight
To be again disappointed. The truth is, reddleman, that that lady, so far from wishing to stand in the way of Thomasin's marriage with Mr. Wildeve, would be very glad to promote it
Indeed, miss
How do you know that Mr. Wildeve will come to Rainbarrow again tonight
I heard him say to himself that he would. He's in a regular temper
I wish I knew what to do. I don't want to be uncivil to him; but I don't wish to see him again; and I have some few little things to return to him
If you choose to send 'em by me, miss, and a note to tell him that you wish to say no more to him, I'll take it for you quite privately. That would be the most straightforward way of letting him know your mind
Very well
Come towards my house, and I will bring it out to you
Why are you so ready to take these for me
Can you ask that
I suppose you think to serve Thomasin in some way by it. Are you as anxious as ever to help on her marriage
I would sooner have married her myself
But what I feel is that if she cannot be happy without him I will do my duty in helping her to get him, as a man ought
Then we are both of one mind at last
Yes
But if you would tell me, miss, why you take such an interest in her, I should be easier. It is so sudden and strange
I cannot tell you that, reddleman
The meeting is always at eight o'clock, at this place
and here we are -- we three
We three
Yes; you, and I, and she. This is she
I don't quite see what this means
How do you come here? There must be some mistake
It will be cleared from your mind when you have read the letter. Lanterns for one
Who are you
You are the reddleman I saw on the hill this morning -- why, you are the man who
Please read the letter
If you had come from the other one I shouldn't have been surprised
I am made a great fool of, one way and another
Do you know what is in this letter
Can't you answer me
Ru-um-tum-tum
Ha-ha! Well, I suppose I deserve it, considering how I have played with them both
But of all the odd things that ever I knew, the oddest is that you should so run counter to your own interests as to bring this to me
My interests
Certainly. 'Twas your interest not to do anything which would send me courting Thomasin again, now she has accepted you -- or something like it. Mrs. Yeobright says you are to marry her. 'Tisn't true, then
Good Lord! I heard of this before, but didn't believe it. When did she say so
I don't believe it now
Ru-um-tum-tum
O Lord -- how we can imitate
I'll have this out. I'll go straight to her
Man alive, you've been quick at it
And you slow, as you will find
And
you may as well go back again now. I've claimed her, and got her. Good night, reddleman
I don't like your going out after dark alone, Tamsin
I have only been just outside the door
Well
It was HE who knocked
I thought as much
He wishes the marriage to be at once
Indeed! What -- is he anxious
Why did not Mr. Wildeve come in
He did not wish to. You are not friends with him, he says. He would like the wedding to be the day after tomorrow, quite privately; at the church of his parish -- not at ours
Oh! And what did you say
I agreed to it
I am a practical woman now. I don't believe in hearts at all. I would marry him under any circumstances since -- since Clym's letter
Yes
If you think you can marry him, do so. And since Mr. Wildeve wishes it to be unceremonious, let it be that too. I can do nothing. It is all in your own hands now. My power over your welfare came to an end when you left this house to go with him to Anglebury
I may almost ask, why do you consult me in the matter at all? If you had gone and married him without saying a word to me, I could hardly have been angry -- simply because, poor girl, you can't do a better thing
Don't say that and dishearten me
You are right: I will not
I do not plead for him, aunt. Human nature is weak, and I am not a blind woman to insist that he is perfect. I did think so, but I don't now. But I know my course, and you know that I know it. I hope for the best
And so do I, and we will both continue to
Then the wedding, if it comes off, will be on the morning of the very day Clym comes home
Yes. I decided that it ought to be over before he came. After that you can look him in the face, and so can I. Our concealments will matter nothing
Do you wish me to give you away? I am willing to undertake that, you know, if you wish, as I was last time. After once forbidding the banns I think I can do no less
I don't think I will ask you to come
It would be unpleasant, I am almost sure. Better let there be only strangers present, and none of my relations at all. I would rather have it so. I do not wish to do anything which may touch your credit, and I feel that I should be uncomfortable if you were there, after what has passed. I am only your niece, and there is no necessity why you should concern yourself more about me
Well, he has beaten us
It really seems as if he had been playing with you in this way in revenge for my humbling him as I did by standing up against him at first
O no, aunt
Another lover has come to ask for you
No
Yes, that queer young man Venn
Asks to pay his addresses to me
Yes; and I told him he was too late
Poor Diggory
I have been thinking that I will wear my blue silk after all
It IS my wedding day, even though there may be something sad about the time. I mean
not sad in itself, but in its having had great disappointment and trouble before it
I almost wish Clym had been at home
Of course you chose the time because of his absence
Partly. I have felt that I acted unfairly to him in not telling him all; but, as it was done not to grieve him, I thought I would carry out the plan to its end, and tell the whole story when the sky was clear
You are a practical little woman
I wish you and he -- no, I don't wish anything. There, it is nine o'clock
I told Damon I would leave at nine
It is a shame to let you go alone
It is necessary
At any rate
I shall call upon you this afternoon, and bring the cake with me. If Clym has returned by that time he will perhaps come too. I wish to show Mr. Wildeve that I bear him no ill-will. Let the past be forgotten. Well, God bless you! There, I don't believe in old superstitions, but I'll do it
Did you call me, aunt
Good-bye
O -- Tamsie
I don't like to let you go
I -- I -- am
Good-bye
I had an early breakfast
Now I could eat a little more
What's this I have heard about Thomasin and Mr. Wildeve
It is true in many points
but it is all right now, I hope
True
Thomasin is gone to him today
Then there is a scandal of some sort, and that's what's the matter with Thomasin. Was it this that made her ill
Yes. Not a scandal: a misfortune. I will tell you all about it, Clym. You must not be angry, but you must listen, and you'll find that what we have done has been done for the best
And she determined that the wedding should be over before you came back
that there might be no chance of her meeting you, and having a very painful time of it. That's why she has gone to him; they have arranged to be married this morning
But I can't understand it
'Tis so unlike her. I can see why you did not write to me after her unfortunate return home. But why didn't you let me know when the wedding was going to be -- the first time
Well, I felt vexed with her just then. She seemed to me to be obstinate; and when I found that you were nothing in her mind I vowed that she should be nothing in yours. I felt that she was only my niece after all; I told her she might marry, but that I should take no interest in it, and should not bother you about it either
It wouldn't have been bothering me. Mother, you did wrong
I thought it might disturb you in your business, and that you might throw up your situation, or injure your prospects in some way because of it, so I said nothing. Of course, if they had married at that time in a proper manner, I should have told you at once
Tamsin actually being married while we are sitting here
Yes. Unless some accident happens again, as it did the first time. It may, considering he's the same man
Yes, and I believe it will. Was it right to let her go? Suppose Wildeve is really a bad fellow
Then he won't come, and she'll come home again
You should have looked more into it
It is useless to say that
You don't know how bad it has been here with us all these weeks, Clym. You don't know what a mortification anything of that sort is to a woman. You don't know the sleepless nights we've had in this house, and the almost bitter words that have passed between us since that Fifth of November. I hope never to pass seven such weeks again. Tamsin has not gone outside the door, and I have been ashamed to look anybody in the face; and now you blame me for letting her do the only thing that can be done to set that trouble straight
No
Upon the whole I don't blame you. But just consider how sudden it seems to me. Here was I, knowing nothing; and then I am told all at once that Tamsie is gone to be married. Well, I suppose there was nothing better to do. Do you know, mother
I once thought of Tamsin as a sweetheart? Yes, I did. How odd boys are! And when I came home and saw her this time she seemed so much more affectionate than usual, that I was quite reminded of those days, particularly on the night of the party, when she was unwell. We had the party just the same -- was not that rather cruel to her
It made no difference. I had arranged to give one, and it was not worth while to make more gloom than necessary. To begin by shutting ourselves up and telling you of Tamsin's misfortunes would have been a poor sort of welcome
I almost wish you had not had that party
and for other reasons. But I will tell you in a day or two. We must think of Tamsin now
I'll tell you what
I don't think it kind to Tamsin to let her be married like this, and neither of us there to keep up her spirits or care a bit about her. She hasn't disgraced herself, or done anything to deserve that. It is bad enough that the wedding should be so hurried and unceremonious, without our keeping away from it in addition. Upon my soul, 'tis almost a shame. I'll go
It is over by this time
unless they were late, or he
Then I shall be soon enough to see them come out. I don't quite like your keeping me in ignorance, mother, after all. Really, I half hope he has failed to meet her
And ruined her character
Nonsense: that wouldn't ruin Thomasin
I find there isn't time for me to get there
Is she married
She is, ma'am
How strange it sounds
And he didn't disappoint her this time
He did not. And there is now no slight on her name. I was hastening ath'art to tell you at once, as I saw you were not there
How came you to be there? How did you know it
I have been in that neighbourhood for some time, and I saw them go in
Wildeve came up to the door, punctual as the clock. I didn't expect it of him
Who was there
Nobody hardly. I stood right out of the way, and she did not see me
Who gave her away
Miss Vye
How very remarkable! Miss Vye! It is to be considered an honour, I suppose
Who's Miss Vye
Captain Vye's granddaughter, of Mistover Knap
A proud girl from Budmouth
One not much to my liking. People say she's a witch, but of course that's absurd
I was sitting on the churchyard wall when they came up, one from one way, the other from the other; and Miss Vye was walking thereabouts, looking at the head-stones. As soon as they had gone in I went to the door, feeling I should like to see it, as I knew her so well. I pulled off my boots because they were so noisy, and went up into the gallery. I saw then that the parson and clerk were already there
How came Miss Vye to have anything to do with it, if she was only on a walk that way
Because there was nobody else. She had gone into the church just before me, not into the gallery. The parson looked round before beginning, and as she was the only one near he beckoned to her, and she went up to the rails. After that, when it came to signing the book, she pushed up her veil and signed; and Tamsin seemed to thank her for her kindness
And then
I came away, for her history as Tamsin Yeobright was over
I offered to go
But she said it was not necessary
Well, it is no matter
The thing is done at last as it was meant to be at first, and God send her happiness. Now I'll wish you good morning
I have punished you now
You mistake; it gives me sincerest pleasure to see her your wife today." 

BOOK THIRD


THE FASCINATION
Ah, Clym Yeobright: what is he doing now
It is bad when your fame outruns your means
Who was the first man known to wear breeches
I have had my hair cut, you know
A man who is doing well elsewhere wouldn't bide here two or three weeks for nothing
He's got some project in's head -- depend upon that
Well, 'a can't keep a diment shop here
I don't see why he should have had them two heavy boxes home if he had not been going to bide; and what there is for him to do here the Lord in heaven knows
Now, folks, let me guess what you have been talking about
Ay, sure, if you will
About me
Now, it is a thing I shouldn't have dreamed of doing, otherwise
but since you have named it, Master Yeobright, I'll own that we was talking about 'ee. We were wondering what could keep you home here mollyhorning about when you have made such a world-wide name for yourself in the nick-nack trade -- now, that's the truth o't
I'll tell you
I am not sorry to have the opportunity. I've come home because, all things considered, I can be a trifle less useless here than anywhere else. But I have only lately found this out. When I first got away from home I thought this place was not worth troubling about. I thought our life here was contemptible. To oil your boots instead of blacking them, to dust your coat with a switch instead of a brush: was there ever anything more ridiculous? I said
So 'tis; so 'tis
No, no -- you are wrong; it isn't
Beg your pardon, we thought that was your maning
Well, as my views changed my course became very depressing. I found that I was trying to be like people who had hardly anything in common with myself. I was endeavouring to put off one sort of life for another sort of life, which was not better than the life I had known before. It was simply different
True; a sight different
Yes, Paris must be a taking place
Grand shop-winders, trumpets, and drums; and here be we out of doors in all winds and weathers
But you mistake me
All this was very depressing. But not so depressing as something I next perceived -- that my business was the idlest, vainest, most effeminate business that ever a man could be put to. That decided me: I would give it up and try to follow some rational occupation among the people I knew best, and to whom I could be of most use. I have come home; and this is how I mean to carry out my plan. I shall keep a school as near to Egdon as possible, so as to be able to walk over here and have a night-school in my mother's house. But I must study a little at first, to get properly qualified. Now, neighbours, I must go
He'll never carry it out in the world
In a few weeks he'll learn to see things otherwise
'Tis good-hearted of the young man
But, for my part, I think he had better mind his business
I am not going back to Paris again, mother
At least, in my old capacity. I have given up the business
I thought something was amiss, because of the boxes. I wonder you did not tell me sooner
I ought to have done it. But I have been in doubt whether you would be pleased with my plan. I was not quite clear on a few points myself. I am going to take an entirely new course
I am astonished, Clym. How can you want to do better than you've been doing
Very easily. But I shall not do better in the way you mean; I suppose it will be called doing worse. But I hate that business of mine, and I want to do some worthy thing before I die. As a schoolmaster I think to do it -- a school-master to the poor and ignorant, to teach them what nobody else will
After all the trouble that has been taken to give you a start, and when there is nothing to do but to keep straight on towards affluence, you say you will be a poor man's schoolmaster. Your fancies will be your ruin, Clym
It disturbs me, Clym, to find that you have come home with such thoughts as those. I hadn't the least idea that you meant to go backward in the world by your own free choice. Of course, I have always supposed you were going to push straight on, as other men do -- all who deserve the name -- when they have been put in a good way of doing well
I cannot help it
Mother, I hate the flashy business. Talk about men who deserve the name, can any man deserving the name waste his time in that effeminate way, when he sees half the world going to ruin for want of somebody to buckle to and teach them how to breast the misery they are born to? I get up every morning and see the whole creation groaning and travailing in pain, as St. Paul says, and yet there am I, trafficking in glittering splendours with wealthy women and titled libertines, and pandering to the meanest vanities -- I, who have health and strength enough for anything. I have been troubled in my mind about it all the year, and the end is that I cannot do it any more
Why can't you do it as well as others
I don't know, except that there are many things other people care for which I don't; and that's partly why I think I ought to do this. For one thing, my body does not require much of me. I cannot enjoy delicacies; good things are wasted upon me. Well, I ought to turn that defect to advantage, and by being able to do without what other people require I can spend what such things cost upon anybody else
And yet you might have been a wealthy man if you had only persevered. Manager to that large diamond establishment -- what better can a man wish for? What a post of trust and respect! I suppose you will be like your father; like him, you are getting weary of doing well
No
I am not weary of that, though I am weary of what you mean by it. Mother, what is doing well
What is wisdom
What is truth
To think that I, who go from home but once in a while, and hardly then, should have been there this morning
'Tis news you have brought us, then, Christian
Ay, sure, about a witch, and ye must overlook my time o' day; for, says I, 'I must go and tell 'em, though they won't have half done dinner.' I assure ye it made me shake like a driven leaf. Do ye think any harm will come o't
Well -- what
This morning at church we was all standing up, and the pa'son said, 'Let us pray.' 'Well,' thinks I, 'one may as well kneel as stand'; so down I went; and, more than that, all the rest were as willing to oblige the man as I. We hadn't been hard at it for more than a minute when a most terrible screech sounded through church, as if somebody had just gied up their heart's blood. All the folk jumped up and then we found that Susan Nunsuch had pricked Miss Vye with a long stocking-needle, as she had threatened to do as soon as ever she could get the young lady to church, where she don't come very often. She've waited for this chance for weeks, so as to draw her blood and put an end to the bewitching of Susan's children that has been carried on so long. Sue followed her into church, sat next to her, and as soon as she could find a chance in went the stocking-needle into my lady's arm
Good heaven, how horrid
Sue pricked her that deep that the maid fainted away; and as I was afeard there might be some tumult among us, I got behind the bass-viol and didn't see no more. But they carried her out into the air, 'tis said; but when they looked round for Sue she was gone. What a scream that girl gied, poor thing! There were thepa's on in his surplice holding up his hand and saying, 'Sit down, my good people, sit down!' But the deuce a bit would they sit down. O, and what d'ye think I found out, Mrs. Yeobright? Thepa's on wears a suit of clothes under his surplice!-- I could see his black sleeves when he held up his arm
'Tis a cruel thing
Yes
The nation ought to look into it
Here's Humphrey coming, I think
Well, have ye heard the news? But I see you have. 'Tis a very strange thing that whenever one of Egdon folk goes to church some rum job or other is sure to be doing. The last time one of us was there was when neighbour Fairway went in the fall; and that was the day you forbad the banns, Mrs. Yeobright
Has this cruelly treated girl been able to walk home
They say she got better, and went home very well. And now I've told it I must be moving homeward myself
And I
Truly now we shall see if there's anything in what folks say about her
Do you think I have turned teacher too soon
It is right that there should be schoolmasters, and missionaries, and all such men
But it is right, too, that I should try to lift you out of this life into something richer, and that you should not come back again, and be as if I had not tried at all
I've come a-borrowing, Mrs. Yeobright. I suppose you have heard what's been happening to the beauty on the hill
Yes, Sam: half a dozen have been telling us
Beauty
Yes, tolerably well-favoured
Lord! all the country owns that 'tis one of the strangest things in the world that such a woman should have come to live up there
Dark or fair
Now, though I've seen her twenty times, that's a thing I cannot call to mind
Darker than Tamsin
A woman who seems to care for nothing at all, as you may say
She is melancholy, then
She mopes about by herself, and don't mix in with the people
Is she a young lady inclined for adventures
Not to my knowledge
Doesn't join in with the lads in their games, to get some sort of excitement in this lonely place
No
Mumming, for instance
No. Her notions be different. I should rather say her thoughts were far away from here, with lords and ladies she'll never know, and mansions she'll never see again
You see more in her than most of us do. Miss Vye is to my mind too idle to be charming. I have never heard that she is of any use to herself or to other people. Good girls don't get treated as witches even on Egdon
Nonsense -- that proves nothing either way
Well, of course I don't understand such niceties
and what she is we must wait for time to tell us. The business that I have really called about is this, to borrow the longest and strongest rope you have. The captain's bucket has dropped into the well, and they are in want of water; and as all the chaps are at home today we think we can get it out for him. We have three cart-ropes already, but they won't reach to the bottom
Is this young witch-lady going to stay long at Mistover
I should say so
What a cruel shame to ill-use her, She must have suffered greatly -- more in mind than in body
'Twas a graceless trick -- such a handsome girl, too. You ought to see her, Mr. Yeobright, being a young man come from far, and with a little more to show for your years than most of us
Do you think she would like to teach children
Quite a different sort of body from that, I reckon
O, it was merely something which occurred to me. It would of course be necessary to see her and talk it over -- not an easy thing, by the way, for my family and hers are not very friendly
I'll tell you how you mid see her, Mr. Yeobright
We are going to grapple for the bucket at six o'clock tonight at her house, and you could lend a hand. There's five or six coming, but the well is deep, and another might be useful, if you don't mind appearing in that shape. She's sure to be walking round
I'll think of it
You mean to call on Thomasin
Yes. But you need not come this time
In that case I'll branch off here, mother. I am going to Mistover
I am going to help them get the bucket out of the captain's well
As it is so very deep I may be useful. And I should like to see this Miss Vye -- not so much for her good looks as for another reason
Must you go
I thought to
There is no help for it
They are sure to see each other. I wish Sam would carry his news to other houses than mine
He is tender-hearted
otherwise it would matter little. How he's going on
Now, silence, folks
Haul
I think we've got sommat
Then pull steady
We've only got en by the edge of the hoop -- steady, for God's sake
Damn the bucket
Lower again
I'm as stiff as a ram's horn stooping so long
Rest a few minutes, Timothy
I'll take your place
Tie a rope round him -- it is dangerous
How thoughtful of her
Will it be possible to draw water here tonight
No, miss; the bottom of the bucket is clean knocked out. And as we can do no more now we'll leave off, and come again tomorrow morning
No water
I can send you up some from Blooms-End
Thank you; it will hardly be necessary
But if you have no water
Well, it is what I call no water
But my grandfather calls it water enough. I'll show you what I mean
Ashes
Yes
We had a little bonfire here last Fifth of November, and those are the marks of it
That's the only kind of water we have
My grandfather says he lived for more than twenty years at sea on water twice as bad as that
and considers it quite good enough for us here on an emergency
Well, as a matter of fact there are no impurities in the water of these pools at this time of the year. It has only just rained into them
I am managing to exist in a wilderness, but I cannot drink from a pond
It is a long way to send for spring-water
But since you don't like this in the pond, I'll try to get you some myself
Yes, I think I could do it by tying on this pail
But, since I would not trouble the men to get it, I cannot in conscience let you
I don't mind the trouble at all
I must make fast the end first, or we may lose the whole
Could you hold this a moment, while I do it -- or shall I call your servant
I can hold it
I suppose I may let it slip down
I would advise you not to let it go far
It will get much heavier, you will find
I cannot stop it
Has it hurt you
Yes
Very much
No; I think not
You should have let go
Why didn't you
You said I was to hold on... This is the second time I have been wounded today
Ah, yes; I have heard of it. I blush for my native Egdon. Was it a serious injury you received in church, Miss Vye
There it is
It was dastardly of the woman
Will not Captain Vye get her punished
He is gone from home on that very business. I did not know that I had such a magic reputation
And you fainted
Yes, it frightened me. I had not been to church for a long time. And now I shall not go again for ever so long -- perhaps never. I cannot face their eyes after this. Don't you think it dreadfully humiliating? I wished I was dead for hours after, but I don't mind now
I have come to clean away these cobwebs
Would you like to help me -- by high-class teaching? We might benefit them much
I don't quite feel anxious to. I have not much love for my fellow-creatures. Sometimes I quite hate them
Still I think that if you were to hear my scheme you might take an interest in it. There is no use in hating people -- if you hate anything, you should hate what produced them
Do you mean Nature? I hate her already. But I shall be glad to hear your scheme at any time
We have met before
I do not own it
But I may think what I like
Yes
You are lonely here
I cannot endure the heath, except in its purple season. The heath is a cruel taskmaster to me
Can you say so
To my mind it is most exhilarating, and strengthening, and soothing. I would rather live on these hills than anywhere else in the world
It is well enough for artists; but I never would learn to draw
And there is a very curious Druidical stone just out there
Do you often go to see it
I was not even aware there existed any such curious Druidical stone. I am aware that there are boulevards in Paris
That means much
It does indeed
I remember when I had the same longing for town bustle. Five years of a great city would be a perfect cure for that
Heaven send me such a cure! Now, Mr. Yeobright, I will go indoors and plaster my wounded hand
Now, I am ready to begin
Where have you been, Clym
Why didn't you tell me that you were going away at this time
I have been on the heath
You'll meet Eustacia Vye if you go up there
Yes, I met her this evening
I wondered if you had
It was no appointment
No; such meetings never are
But you are not angry, mother
I can hardly say that I am not. Angry? No. But when I consider the usual nature of the drag which causes men of promise to disappoint the world I feel uneasy
You deserve credit for the feeling, mother. But I can assure you that you need not be disturbed by it on my account
When I think of you and your new crotchets
I naturally don't feel so comfortable as I did a twelvemonth ago. It is incredible to me that a man accustomed to the attractive women of Paris and elsewhere should be so easily worked upon by a girl in a heath. You could just as well have walked another way
I had been studying all day
Well, yes
I have been thinking that you might get on as a schoolmaster, and rise that way, since you really are determined to hate the course you were pursuing
How cold they are to each other
They have dug a hole, and they have found things like flowerpots upside down, Mis'ess Yeobright; and inside these be real charnel bones. They have carried 'em off to men's houses; but I shouldn't like to sleep where they will bide. Dead folks have been known to come and claim their own. Mr. Yeobright had got one pot of the bones, and was going to bring 'em home -- real skellington bones -- but 'twas ordered otherwise. You'll be relieved to hear that he gave away his pot and all, on second thoughts; and a blessed thing for ye, Mis'ess Yeobright, considering the wind o' nights
Gave it away
Yes. To Miss Vye. She has a cannibal taste for such churchyard furniture seemingly
Miss Vye was there too
Ay, 'a b'lieve she was
The urn you had meant for me you gave away
What red spot is that glowing upon your mouth so vividly
Five days have we sat like this at meals with scarcely a word. What's the use of it, mother
None
But there is only too good a reason
Not when you know all. I have been wanting to speak about this, and I am glad the subject is begun. The reason, of course, is Eustacia Vye. Well, I confess I have seen her lately, and have seen her a good many times
Yes, yes; and I know what that amounts to. It troubles me, Clym. You are wasting your life here; and it is solely on account of her. If it had not been for that woman you would never have entertained this teaching scheme at all
You know that is not it
Well, I know you had decided to attempt it before you saw her; but that would have ended in intentions. It was very well to talk of, but ridiculous to put in practice. I fully expected that in the course of a month or two you would have seen the folly of such self-sacrifice, and would have been by this time back again to Paris in some business or other. I can understand objections to the diamond trade -- I really was thinking that it might be inadequate to the life of a man like you even though it might have made you a millionaire. But now I see how mistaken you are about this girl I doubt if you could be correct about other things
How am I mistaken in her
She is lazy and dissatisfied. But that is not all of it. Supposing her to be as good a woman as any you can find, which she certainly is not, why do you wish to connect yourself with anybody at present
Well, there are practical reasons
If I take a school an educated woman would be invaluable as a help to me
What! you really mean to marry her
It would be premature to state that plainly. But consider what obvious advantages there would be in doing it. She
Don't suppose she has any money. She hasn't a farthing
She is excellently educated, and would make a good matron in a boarding-school. I candidly own that I have modified my views a little, in deference to you; and it should satisfy you. I no longer adhere to my intention of giving with my own mouth rudimentary education to the lowest class. I can do better. I can establish a good private school for farmers' sons, and without stopping the school I can manage to pass examinations. By this means, and by the assistance of a wife like her
Oh, Clym
I shall ultimately, I hope, be at the head of one of the best schools in the county
You are blinded, Clym
It was a bad day for you when you first set eyes on her. And your scheme is merely a castle in the air built on purpose to justify this folly which has seized you, and to salve your conscience on the irrational situation you are in
Mother, that's not true
Can you maintain that I sit and tell untruths, when all I wish to do is to save you from sorrow? For shame, Clym! But it is all through that woman -- a hussy
I won't hear it. I may be led to answer you in a way which we shall both regret
There's an eclipse of the moon tonight. I am going out to see it
My Eustacia
Clym, dearest
I began to wonder why you did not come
You said ten minutes after the first mark of shade on the edge of the moon, and that's what it is now
Well, let us only think that here we are
Has it seemed long since you last saw me
It has seemed sad
And not long? That's because you occupy yourself, and so blind yourself to my absence. To me, who can do nothing, it has been like living under stagnant water
I would rather bear tediousness, dear, than have time made short by such means as have shortened mine
In what way is that? You have been thinking you wished you did not love me
How can a man wish that, and yet love on? No, Eustacia
Men can, women cannot
Well, whatever I may have thought, one thing is certain -- I do love you -- past all compass and description. I love you to oppressiveness -- I, who have never before felt more than a pleasant passing fancy for any woman I have ever seen. Let me look right into your moonlit face and dwell on every line and curve in it! Only a few hair-breadths make the difference between this face and faces I have seen many times before I knew you; yet what a difference -- the difference between everything and nothing at all. One touch on that mouth again! there, and there, and there. Your eyes seem heavy, Eustacia
No, it is my general way of looking. I think it arises from my feeling sometimes an agonizing pity for myself that I ever was born
You don't feel it now
No. Yet I know that we shall not love like this always. Nothing can ensure the continuance of love. It will evaporate like a spirit, and so I feel full of fears
You need not
Ah, you don't know. You have seen more than I, and have been into cities and among people that I have only heard of, and have lived more years than I; but yet I am older at this than you. I loved another man once, and now I love you
In God's mercy don't talk so, Eustacia
But I do not think I shall be the one who wearies first. It will, I fear, end in this way: your mother will find out that you meet me, and she will influence you against me
That can never be. She knows of these meetings already
And she speaks against me
I will not say
There, go away! Obey her. I shall ruin you. It is foolish of you to meet me like this. Kiss me, and go away for ever. For ever -- do you hear?-- for ever
Not I
It is your only chance. Many a man's love has been a curse to him
You are desperate, full of fancies, and wilful; and you misunderstand. I have an additional reason for seeing you tonight besides love of you. For though, unlike you, I feel our affection may be eternal, I feel with you in this, that our present mode of existence cannot last
Oh! 'tis your mother. Yes, that's it! I knew it
Never mind what it is. Believe this, I cannot let myself lose you. I must have you always with me. This very evening I do not like to let you go. There is only one cure for this anxiety, dearest -- you must be my wife
Cynics say that cures the anxiety by curing the love
But you must answer me. Shall I claim you some day -- I don't mean at once
I must think
At present speak of Paris to me. Is there any place like it on earth
It is very beautiful. But will you be mine
I will be nobody else's in the world -- does that satisfy you
Yes, for the present
Now tell me of the Tuileries, and the Louvre
I hate talking of Paris! Well, I remember one sunny room in the Louvre which would make a fitting place for you to live in -- the Galerie d'Apollon. Its windows are mainly east; and in the early morning, when the sun is bright, the whole apartment is in a perfect blaze of splendour. The rays bristle and dart from the encrustations of gilding to the magnificent inlaid coffers, from the coffers to the gold and silver plate, from the plate to the jewels and precious stones, from these to the enamels, till there is a perfect network of light which quite dazzles the eye. But now, about our marriage
And Versailles -- the King's Gallery is some such gorgeous room, is it not
Yes. But what's the use of talking of gorgeous rooms? By the way, the Little Trianon would suit us beautifully to live in, and you might walk in the gardens in the moonlight and think you were in some English shrubbery; it is laid out in English fashion
I should hate to think that
Then you could keep to the lawn in front of the Grand Palace. All about there you would doubtless feel in a world of historical romance
When used you to go to these places
On Sundays
Ah, yes. I dislike English Sundays. How I should chime in with their manners over there! Dear Clym, you'll go back again
If you'll go back again I'll -- be something
If you'll agree I'll give my promise, without making you wait a minute longer
How extraordinary that you and my mother should be of one mind about this
I have vowed not to go back, Eustacia. It is not the place I dislike; it is the occupation
But you can go in some other capacity
No. Besides, it would interfere with my scheme. Don't press that, Eustacia. Will you marry me
I cannot tell
Now -- never mind Paris; it is no better than other spots. Promise, sweet
You will never adhere to your education plan, I am quite sure; and then it will be all right for me; and so I promise to be yours for ever and ever
Ah! but you don't know what you have got in me
Sometimes I think there is not that in Eustacia Vye which will make a good homespun wife. Well, let it go -- see how our time is slipping, slipping, slipping
You are too mournful
No. Only I dread to think of anything beyond the present. What is, we know. We are together now, and it is unknown how long we shall be so; the unknown always fills my mind with terrible possibilities, even when I may reasonably expect it to be cheerful... Clym, the eclipsed moonlight shines upon your face with a strange foreign colour, and shows its shape as if it were cut out in gold. That means that you should be doing better things than this
You are ambitious, Eustacia -- no, not exactly ambitious, luxurious. I ought to be of the same vein, to make you happy, I suppose. And yet, far from that, I could live and die in a hermitage here, with proper work to do
Don't mistake me, Clym: though I should like Paris, I love you for yourself alone. To be your wife and live in Paris would be heaven to me; but I would rather live with you in a hermitage here than not be yours at all. It is gain to me either way, and very great gain. There's my too candid confession
Spoken like a woman. And now I must soon leave you. I'll walk with you towards your house
But must you go home yet
Yes, the sand has nearly slipped away, I see, and the eclipse is creeping on more and more. Don't go yet! Stop till the hour has run itself out; then I will not press you any more. You will go home and sleep well; I keep sighing in my sleep! Do you ever dream of me
I cannot recollect a clear dream of you
I see your face in every scene of my dreams, and hear your voice in every sound. I wish I did not. It is too much what I feel. They say such love never lasts. But it must! And yet once, I remember, I saw an officer of the Hussars ride down the street at Budmouth, and though he was a total stranger and never spoke to me, I loved him till I thought I should really die of love -- but I didn't die, and at last I left off caring for him. How terrible it would be if a time should come when I could not love you, my Clym
Please don't say such reckless things. When we see such a time at hand we will say, 'I have outlived my faith and purpose,' and die. There, the hour has expired: now let us walk on
It is too late for me to see your grandfather tonight. Do you think he will object to it
I will speak to him. I am so accustomed to be my own mistress that it did not occur to me that we should have to ask him
I have been told an incomprehensible thing
The captain has let out at the Woman that you and Eustacia Vye are engaged to be married
We are
But it may not be yet for a very long time
I should hardly think it WOULD be yet for a very long time! You will take her to Paris, I suppose
I am not going back to Paris
What will you do with a wife, then
Keep a school in Budmouth, as I have told you
That's incredible! The place is overrun with schoolmasters. You have no special qualifications. What possible chance is there for such as you
There is no chance of getting rich. But with my system of education, which is as new as it is true, I shall do a great deal of good to my fellow-creatures
Dreams, dreams! If there had been any system left to be invented they would have found it out at the universities long before this time
Never, mother. They cannot find it out, because their teachers don't come in contact with the class which demands such a system -- that is, those who have had no preliminary training. My plan is one for instilling high knowledge into empty minds without first cramming them with what has to be uncrammed again before true study begins
I might have believed you if you had kept yourself free from entanglements; but this woman -- if she had been a good girl it would have been bad enough; but being
She is a good girl
So you think. A Corfu bandmaster's daughter! What has her life been? Her surname even is not her true one
She is Captain Vye's granddaughter, and her father merely took her mother's name. And she is a lady by instinct
They call him 'captain,' but anybody is captain
He was in the Royal Navy
No doubt he has been to sea in some tub or other. Why doesn't he look after her? No lady would rove about the heath at all hours of the day and night as she does. But that's not all of it. There was something queer between her and Thomasin's husband at one time -- I am as sure of it as that I stand here
Eustacia has told me. He did pay her a little attention a year ago; but there's no harm in that. I like her all the better
Clym
I have no proofs against her, unfortunately. But if she makes you a good wife, there has never been a bad one
Believe me, you are almost exasperating
And this very day I had intended to arrange a meeting between you. But you give me no peace; you try to thwart my wishes in everything
I hate the thought of any son of mine marrying badly! I wish I had never lived to see this; it is too much for me -- it is more than I dreamt
Mother
whatever you do, you will always be dear to me -- that you know. But one thing I have a right to say, which is, that at my age I am old enough to know what is best for me
Best? Is it best for you to injure your prospects for such a voluptuous, idle woman as that? Don't you see that by the very fact of your choosing her you prove that you do not know what is best for you? You give up your whole thought -- you set your whole soul -- to please a woman
I do. And that woman is you
How can you treat me so flippantly
You are unnatural, Clym, and I did not expect it
Very likely
You did not know the measure you were going to mete me, and therefore did not know the measure that would be returned to you again
You answer me; you think only of her. You stick to her in all things
That proves her to be worthy. I have never yet supported what is bad. And I do not care only for her. I care for you and for myself, and for anything that is good. When a woman once dislikes another she is merciless
O Clym! please don't go setting down as my fault what is your obstinate wrong-headedness. If you wished to connect yourself with an unworthy person why did you come home here to do it? Why didn't you do it in Paris?-- it is more the fashion there. You have come only to distress me, a lonely woman, and shorten my days! I wish that you would bestow your presence where you bestow your love
You are my mother. I will say no more -- beyond this, that I beg your pardon for having thought this my home. I will no longer inflict myself upon you; I'll go
I knew she was sure to come
Only you here
Where is Mrs. Yeobright
She has not come
I wish I had known that you would be here alone
and that we were going to have such an idle, pleasant time as this. Pleasure not known beforehand is half wasted; to anticipate it is to double it. I have not thought once today of having you all to myself this afternoon, and the actual moment of a thing is so soon gone
It is indeed
Poor Clym
You are sad. Something has happened at your home. Never mind what is -- let us only look at what seems
But, darling, what shall we do
Still go on as we do now -- just live on from meeting to meeting, never minding about another day. You, I know, are always thinking of that -- I can see you are. But you must not -- will you, dear Clym
You are just like all women. They are ever content to build their lives on any incidental position that offers itself; whilst men would fain make a globe to suit them. Listen to this, Eustacia. There is a subject I have determined to put off no longer. Your sentiment on the wisdom of _Carpe diem_ does not impress me today. Our present mode of life must shortly be brought to an end
It is your mother
It is. I love you none the less in telling you; it is only right you should know
I have feared my bliss
It has been too intense and consuming
There is hope yet. There are forty years of work in me yet, and why should you despair? I am only at an awkward turning. I wish people wouldn't be so ready to think that there is no progress without uniformity
Ah -- your mind runs off to the philosophical side of it. Well, these sad and hopeless obstacles are welcome in one sense, for they enable us to look with indifference upon the cruel satires that Fate loves to indulge in. I have heard of people, who, upon coming suddenly into happiness, have died from anxiety lest they should not live to enjoy it. I felt myself in that whimsical state of uneasiness lately; but I shall be spared it now. Let us walk on
I must part from you here, Clym
O! this leaving you is too hard to bear
Your mother will influence you too much; I shall not be judged fairly, it will get afloat that I am not a good girl, and the witch story will be added to make me blacker
They cannot. Nobody dares to speak disrespectfully of you or of me
Oh how I wish I was sure of never losing you -- that you could not be able to desert me anyhow
You shall be sure of me, darling
We will be married at once
O Clym
Do you agree to it
If -- if we can
We certainly can, both being of full age. And I have not followed my occupation all these years without having accumulated money; and if you will agree to live in a tiny cottage somewhere on the heath, until I take a house in Budmouth for the school, we can do it at a very little expense
How long shall we have to live in the tiny cottage, Clym
About six months. At the end of that time I shall have finished my reading -- yes, we will do it, and this heartaching will be over. We shall, of course, live in absolute seclusion, and our married life will only begin to outward view when we take the house in Budmouth, where I have already addressed a letter on the matter. Would your grandfather allow you
I think he would -- on the understanding that it should not last longer than six months
I will guarantee that, if no misfortune happens
If no misfortune happens
Which is not likely. Dearest, fix the exact day
Mother, I am going to leave you
I thought you were, by your packing
And you will part friends with me
Certainly, Clym
I am going to be married on the twenty-fifth
I thought you were going to be married
And then -- and then you must come and see us. You will understand me better after that, and our situation will not be so wretched as it is now
I do not think it likely I shall come to see you
Then it will not be my fault or Eustacia's, mother. Good-bye
You are looking very blithe, upon my word, Tamsie
How is Damon
He is very well
Is he kind to you, Thomasin
Pretty fairly
Is that honestly said
Yes, aunt. I would tell you if he were unkind
He -- I don't know if I ought to complain to you about this, but I am not quite sure what to do. I want some money, you know, aunt -- some to buy little things for myself -- and he doesn't give me any. I don't like to ask him; and yet, perhaps, he doesn't give it me because he doesn't know. Ought I to mention it to him, aunt
Of course you ought. Have you never said a word on the matter
You see, I had some of my own
and I have not wanted any of his until lately. I did just say something about it last week; but he seems -- not to remember
He must be made to remember. You are aware that I have a little box full of spade-guineas, which your uncle put into my hands to divide between yourself and Clym whenever I chose. Perhaps the time has come when it should be done. They can be turned into sovereigns at any moment
I think I should like to have my share -- that is, if you don't mind
You shall, if necessary. But it is only proper that you should first tell your husband distinctly that you are without any, and see what he will do
Very well, I will... Aunt, I have heard about Clym. I know you are in trouble about him, and that's why I have come
O Thomasin, do you think he hates me? How can he bear to grieve me so, when I have lived only for him through all these years
Hate you -- no
It is only that he loves her too well. Look at it quietly -- do. It is not so very bad of him. Do you know, I thought it not the worst match he could have made. Miss Vye's family is a good one on her mother's side; and her father was a romantic wanderer -- a sort of Greek Ulysses
It is no use, Thomasin; it is no use. Your intention is good; but I will not trouble you to argue. I have gone through the whole that can be said on either side times, and many times. Clym and I have not parted in anger; we have parted in a worse way. It is not a passionate quarrel that would have broken my heart; it is the steady opposition and persistence in going wrong that he has shown. O Thomasin, he was so good as a little boy -- so tender and kind
He was, I know
I did not think one whom I called mine would grow up to treat me like this. He spoke to me as if I opposed him to injure him. As though I could wish him ill
There are worse women in the world than Eustacia Vye
There are too many better; that's the agony of it. It was she, Thomasin, and she only, who led your husband to act as he did: I would swear it
No
It was before he knew me that he thought of her, and it was nothing but a mere flirtation
Very well; we will let it be so. There is little use in unravelling that now. Sons must be blind if they will. Why is it that a woman can see from a distance what a man cannot see close? Clym must do as he will -- he is nothing more to me. And this is maternity -- to give one's best years and best love to ensure the fate of being despised
You are too unyielding. Think how many mothers there are whose sons have brought them to public shame by real crimes before you feel so deeply a case like this
Thomasin, don't lecture me -- I can't have it. It is the excess above what we expect that makes the force of the blow, and that may not be greater in their case than in mine: they may have foreseen the worst... I am wrongly made, Thomasin
Some widows can guard against the wounds their children give them by turning their hearts to another husband and beginning life again. But I always was a poor, weak, one-idea'd creature -- I had not the compass of heart nor the enterprise for that. Just as forlorn and stupefied as I was when my husband's spirit flew away I have sat ever since -- never attempting to mend matters at all. I was comparatively a young woman then, and I might have had another family by this time, and have been comforted by them for the failure of this one son
It is more noble in you that you did not
The more noble, the less wise
Forget it, and be soothed, dear aunt. And I shall not leave you alone for long. I shall come and see you every day
You come from Mistover
Yes. They are taking in good things up there. Going to be a wedding
Do you mean Miss Vye
How is it -- that she can be married so soon
By the will of God and a ready young man, I suppose
You don't mean Mr. Yeobright
Yes. He has been creeping about with her all the spring
I suppose -- she was immensely taken with him
She is crazy about him, so their general servant of all work tells me. And that lad Charley that looks after the horse is all in a daze about it. The stun-poll has got fondlike of her
Is she lively -- is she glad? Going to be married so soon -- well
It isn't so very soon
No; not so very soon
O, it is a mistake
And he will rue it some day, and think of me
Then it is over
Well, well! and life too will be over soon. And why should I go on scalding my face like this? Cry about one thing in life, cry about all; one thread runs through the whole piece. And yet we say, 'a time to laugh
Thomasin has not been able to come, as she promised to do
The captain came down last night and personally pressed her to join them today. So, not to be unpleasant, she determined to go. They fetched her in the pony-chaise, and are going to bring her back
Then it is done
Have they gone to their new home
I don't know. I have had no news from Mistover since Thomasin left to go
You did not go with her
I could not
We could not both leave the house; it was rather a busy morning, on account of Anglebury Great Market. I believe you have something to give to Thomasin? If you like, I will take it
Did she tell you of this
Not particularly. She casually dropped a remark about having arranged to fetch some article or other
It is hardly necessary to send it. She can have it whenever she chooses to come
That won't be yet. In the present state of her health she must not go on walking so much as she has done
What wonderful thing is it that I cannot be trusted to take
Nothing worth troubling you with
One would think you doubted my honesty
You need think no such thing
It is simply that I, in common with the rest of the world, feel that there are certain things which had better be done by certain people than by others
As you like, as you like
It is not worth arguing about. Well, I think I must turn homeward again, as the inn must not be left long in charge of the lad and the maid only
You need not hurry
It will be better not to get there till after dusk, and then nobody will notice you. Come back here to supper, if it is not too late
What! Christian going too
You've got no young woman nor wife to your name to gie a gown-piece to, I'm sure
What d'ye mean
Why, the raffle. The one we go to every year. Going to the raffle as well as ourselves
Never knew a word o't. Is it like cudgel-playing or other sportful forms of bloodshed? I don't want to go, thank you, Mister Fairway, and no offence
Christian don't know the fun o't, and 'twould be a fine sight for him
There's no danger at all, Christian. Every man puts in a shilling apiece, and one wins a gown-piece for his wife or sweetheart if he's got one
Well, as that's not my fortune there's no meaning in it to me. But I should like to see the fun, if there's nothing of the black art in it, and if a man may look on without cost or getting into any dangerous wrangle
There will be no uproar at all
Sure, Christian, if you'd like to come we'll see there's no harm done
And no ba'dy gaieties, I suppose? You see, neighbours, if so, it would be setting father a bad example, as he is so light moral'd. But a gown-piece for a shilling, and no black art --'tis worth looking in to see, and it wouldn't hinder me half an hour. Yes, I'll come, if you'll step a little way towards Mistover with me afterwards, supposing night should have closed in, and nobody else is going that way
Now, gentlemen
there's five have entered, and we want four more to make up the number. I think, by the faces of those gentlemen who have just come in, that they are shrewd enough to take advantage of this rare opportunity of beautifying their ladies at a very trifling expense
No, sir
I am only a poor chap come to look on, an it please ye, sir. I don't so much as know how you do it. If so be I was sure of getting it I would put down the shilling; but I couldn't otherwise
I think you might almost be sure
In fact, now I look into your face, even if I can't say you are sure to win, I can say that I never saw anything look more like winning in my life
You'll anyhow have the same chance as the rest of us
And the extra luck of being the last comer
And I was born wi' a caul, and perhaps can be no more ruined than drowned
The gentleman looked like winning, as I said
Take it, sir; the article is yours
Haw-haw-haw
I'm damned if this isn't the quarest start that ever I knowed
Mine
I -- I haven't got neither maid, wife, nor widder belonging to me at all, and I'm afeard it will make me laughed at to ha'e it, Master Traveller. What with being curious to join in I never thought of that! What shall I do wi' a woman's clothes in my bedroom, and not lose my decency
Keep 'em, to be sure
if it is only for luck. Perhaps 'twill tempt some woman that thy poor carcase had no power over when standing empty-handed
Keep it, certainly
Well, to be sure
To think I should have been born so lucky as this, and not have found it out until now! What curious creatures these dice be -- powerful rulers of us all, and yet at my command! I am sure I never need be afeared of anything after this
Why, sir
if I could only use this power that's in me of multiplying money I might do some good to a near relation of yours, seeing what I've got about me of hers -- eh
What do you mean
That's a secret. Well, I must be going now
Where are you going
To Mistover Knap. I have to see Mrs. Thomasin there -- that's all
I am going there, too, to fetch Mrs. Wildeve. We can walk together
Yet she could trust this fellow
Why doesn't that which belongs to the wife belong to the husband too
Now, Christian, I am ready
Mr. Wildeve
would you mind lending me them wonderful little things that carry my luck inside 'em, that I might practise a bit by myself, you know
Certainly
They were only cut out by some lad with his knife, and are worth nothing
By Gad! 'tis dark
But I suppose we shall find our way
If we should lose the path it might be awkward
A lantern is the only shield that will make it safe for us
Let's have a lantern by all means
Upon my life, it fairly startled me when the man spoke
Oh --'tis the reddleman! You've kept a quiet tongue, young man
Yes, I had nothing to say
So you have money to carry to Mrs. Wildeve
Don't you think it very odd that it shouldn't be given to me
As man and wife be one flesh, 'twould have been all the same, I should think
But my strict documents was, to give the money into Mrs. Wildeve's hand -- and 'tis well to do things right
No doubt
How very warm it is tonight, Christian
Let us sit down for a few minutes, for Heaven's sake
What are you rattling in there
Only the dice, sir
What magical machines these little things be, Mr. Wildeve! 'Tis a game I should never get tired of. Would you mind my taking 'em out and looking at 'em for a minute, to see how they are made? I didn't like to look close before the other men, for fear they should think it bad manners in me
That these little things should carry such luck, and such charm, and such a spell, and such power in 'em, passes all I ever heard or zeed
They are a great deal in a small compass, You think
Yes. Do ye suppose they really be the devil's playthings, Mr. Wildeve? If so, 'tis no good sign that I be such a lucky man
You ought to win some money, now that you've got them. Any woman would marry you then. Now is your time, Christian, and I would recommend you not to let it slip. Some men are born to luck, some are not. I belong to the latter class
Did you ever know anybody who was born to it besides myself
O yes. I once heard of an Italian, who sat down at a gaming table with only a louis (that's a foreign sovereign) in his pocket. He played on for twenty-four hours, and won ten thousand pounds, stripping the bank he had played against. Then there was another man who had lost a thousand pounds, and went to the broker's next day to sell stock, that he might pay the debt. The man to whom he owed the money went with him in a hackney-coach; and to pass the time they tossed who should pay the fare. The ruined man won, and the other was tempted to continue the game, and they played all the way. When the coachman stopped he was told to drive home again: the whole thousand pounds had been won back by the man who was going to sell
Ha -- ha -- splendid
Go on -- go on
Then there was a man of London, who was only a waiter at White's clubhouse. He began playing first half-crown stakes, and then higher and higher, till he became very rich, got an appointment in India, and rose to be Governor of Madras. His daughter married a member of Parliament, and the Bishop of Carlisle stood godfather to one of the children
Wonderful! wonderful
And once there was a young man in America who gambled till he had lost his last dollar. He staked his watch and chain, and lost as before; staked his umbrella, lost again; staked his hat, lost again; staked his coat and stood in his shirt-sleeve; lost again. Began taking off his breeches, and then a looker-on gave him a trifle for his pluck. With this he won. Won back his coat, won back his hat, won back his umbrella, his watch, his money, and went out of the door a rich man
Oh, 'tis too good -- it takes away my breath! Mr. Wildeve, I think I will try another shilling with you, as I am one of that sort; no danger can come o't, and you can afford to lose
Very well
Let us try four
Ah, those little accidents will, of course, sometimes happen, to the luckiest man
And now I have no more money
And yet, if I could go on, I should get it back again, and more. I wish this was mine
What! you have not put Mrs. Wildeve's money there
Yes. 'Tis for safety. Is it any harm to raffle with a married lady's money when, if I win, I shall only keep my winnings, and give her her own all the same; and if t'other man wins, her money will go to the lawful owner
None at all
Well, here goes
I shall dream of it nights and nights, I suppose; but I shall always swear my flesh don't crawl when I think o't
I don't care -- I don't care
The devil will toss me into the flames on his three-pronged fork for this night's work, I know! But perhaps I shall win yet, and then I'll get a wife to sit up with me o' nights, and I won't be afeard, I won't! Here's another for'ee, my man
O, what shall I do with my wretched self
What shall I do? Will any good Heaven hae mercy upon my wicked soul
Do? Live on just the same
I won't live on just the same! I'll die! I say you are a -- a
A man sharper than my neighbour
Yes, a man sharper than my neighbour; a regular sharper
Poor chips-in-porridge, you are very unmannerly
I don't know about that! And I say you be unmannerly! You've got money that isn't your own. Half the guineas are poor Mr. Clym's
How's that
Because I had to gie fifty of 'em to him. Mrs. Yeobright said so
Oh?... Well, 'twould have been more graceful of her to have given them to his wife Eustacia. But they are in my hands now
You have been watching us from behind that bush
Down with your stake
Or haven't you pluck enough to go on
Mine is a guinea
A guinea that's not your own
It is my own
It is my wife's, and what is hers is mine
Very well; let's make a beginning
Here you are again
Double the stakes
Won back his coat
Won back his hat
Oh, oh
Won back his watch, won back his money, and went out of the door a rich man
Five more
And three casts be hanged -- one shall decide
I have done it this time -- hurrah
There are two playing, and only one has thrown
It is all over, then
No, no
I mean to have another chance yet. I must
But, my good man, what have you done with the dice
I threw them away -- it was a momentary irritation. What a fool I am! Here -- come and help me to look for them -- we must find them again
You are not likely to find them there
What did you do such a crazy thing as that for? Here's the box. The dice can't be far off
Never mind
let's play with one
Agreed
What's that
Hoosh
What the infernal
Now, what shall we do? Perhaps I have thrown six -- have you any matches
None
Christian had some -- I wonder where he is. Christian
Ah -- glowworms
Wait a minute. We can continue the game
Determined to go on, then
I always am
I won't play any more -- you've been tampering with the dice
How -- when they were your own
We'll change the game: the lowest point shall win the stake -- it may cut off my ill luck. Do you refuse
No -- go on
O, there they are again -- damn them
What a plague those creatures are -- staring at me so
Never give in -- here are my last five
Hang the glowworms -- they are going out. Why don't you burn, you little fools? Stir them up with a thorn
There's light enough. Throw on
Well done!-- I said it would turn, and it has turned
O
Curse me
I've thrown nothing at all
Serves me right -- I split the die with my teeth. Here -- take your money. Blank is less than one
I don't wish it
Take it, I say -- you've won it
What, Diggory? You are having a lonely walk
Yes -- I beg your pardon for stopping you
But I am waiting about for Mrs. Wildeve: I have something to give her from Mrs. Yeobright. Can you tell me if she's gone home from the party yet
No. But she will be leaving soon. You may possibly meet her at the corner
I beg pardon for stopping you, Mrs. Wildeve
But I have something to give you privately from Mrs. Yeobright
That's all, ma'am -- I wish you good night
What, is he going to keep them
I hope and trust not
He's a good man, and perhaps will do right things. He said you ought to have gied Mr. Clym's share to Eustacia, and that's perhaps what he'll do himself
I was coming to see you
Indeed
I did not at all expect you
I was coming on business only
Will you excuse my asking this -- Have you received a gift from Thomasin's husband
A gift
I mean money
What -- I myself
Well, I meant yourself, privately -- though I was not going to put it in that way
Money from Mr. Wildeve? No -- never! Madam, what do you mean by that
I simply ask the question
I have been
You ought to have better opinions of me -- I feared you were against me from the first
No. I was simply for Clym
It is the instinct of everyone to look after their own
How can you imply that he required guarding against me
I have not injured him by marrying him! What sin have I done that you should think so ill of me? You had no right to speak against me to him when I have never wronged you
I only did what was fair under the circumstances
I would rather not have gone into this question at present, but you compel me. I am not ashamed to tell you the honest truth. I was firmly convinced that he ought not to marry you -- therefore I tried to dissuade him by all the means in my power. But it is done now, and I have no idea of complaining any more. I am ready to welcome you
Ah, yes, it is very well to see things in that business point of view
But why should you think there is anything between me and Mr. Wildeve? I have a spirit as well as you. I am indignant; and so would any woman be. It was a condescension in me to be Clym's wife, and not a manoeuvre, let me remind you; and therefore I will not be treated as a schemer whom it becomes necessary to bear with because she has crept into the family
Oh
I have never heard anything to show that my son's lineage is not as good as the Vyes'-- perhaps better. It is amusing to hear you talk of condescension
It was condescension, nevertheless
And if I had known then what I know now, that I should be living in this wild heath a month after my marriage, I -- I should have thought twice before agreeing
It would be better not to say that; it might not sound truthful. I am not aware that any deception was used on his part -- I know there was not -- whatever might have been the case on the other side
This is too exasperating
How can you dare to speak to me like that? I insist upon repeating to you that had I known that my life would from my marriage up to this time have been as it is, I should have said NO. I don't complain. I have never uttered a sound of such a thing to him; but it is true. I hope therefore that in the future you will be silent on my eagerness. If you injure me now you injure yourself
Injure you? Do you think I am an evil-disposed person
You injured me before my marriage, and you have now suspected me of secretly favouring another man for money
I could not help what I thought. But I have never spoken of you outside my house
You spoke of me within it, to Clym, and you could not do worse
I did my duty
And I'll do mine
A part of which will possibly be to set him against his mother. It is always so. But why should I not bear it as others have borne it before me
I understand you
You think me capable of every bad thing. Who can be worse than a wife who encourages a lover, and poisons her husband's mind against his relative? Yet that is now the character given to me. Will you not come and drag him out of my hands
Don't rage at me, madam! It ill becomes your beauty, and I am not worth the injury you may do it on my account, I assure you. I am only a poor old woman who has lost a son
If you had treated me honourably you would have had him still
You have brought yourself to folly; you have caused a division which can never be healed
I have done nothing. This audacity from a young woman is more than I can bear
It was asked for; you have suspected me, and you have made me speak of my husband in a way I would not have done. You will let him know that I have spoken thus, and it will cause misery between us. Will you go away from me? You are no friend
I will go when I have spoken a word. If anyone says I have come here to question you without good grounds for it, that person speaks untruly. If anyone says that I attempted to stop your marriage by any but honest means, that person, too, does not speak the truth. I have fallen on an evil time; God has been unjust to me in letting you insult me! Probably my son's happiness does not lie on this side of the grave, for he is a foolish man who neglects the advice of his parent. You, Eustacia, stand on the edge of a precipice without knowing it. Only show my son one-half the temper you have shown me today -- and you may before long -- and you will find that though he is as gentle as a child with you now, he can be as hard as steel
What is the matter, Eustacia
I have seen your mother; and I will never see her again
Why is this
I cannot tell -- I cannot remember. I met your mother. And I will never meet her again
Why
What do I know about Mr. Wildeve now? I won't have wicked opinions passed on me by anybody. O! it was too humiliating to be asked if I had received any money from him, or encouraged him, or something of the sort -- I don't exactly know what
How could she have asked you that
She did
Then there must have been some meaning in it. What did my mother say besides
I don't know what she said, except in so far as this, that we both said words which can never be forgiven
Oh, there must be some misapprehension. Whose fault was it that her meaning was not made clear
I would rather not say. It may have been the fault of the circumstances, which were awkward at the very least. O Clym -- I cannot help expressing it -- this is an unpleasant position that you have placed me in. But you must improve it -- yes, say you will -- for I hate it all now! Yes, take me to Paris, and go on with your old occupation, Clym! I don't mind how humbly we live there at first, if it can only be Paris, and not Egdon Heath
But I have quite given up that idea
Surely I never led you to expect such a thing
I own it. Yet there are thoughts which cannot be kept out of mind, and that one was mine. Must I not have a voice in the matter, now I am your wife and the sharer of your doom
Well, there are things which are placed beyond the pale of discussion; and I thought this was specially so, and by mutual agreement
Clym, I am unhappy at what I hear
Then this is what my mother meant
Thomasin, do you know that they have had a bitter quarrel
Your mother told me
She came back to my house after seeing Eustacia
The worst thing I dreaded has come to pass. Was mother much disturbed when she came to you, Thomasin
Yes
Very much indeed
Yes
Don't trouble about it, Clym. They may get to be friends
Not two people with inflammable natures like theirs. Well, what must be will be
One thing is cheerful in it -- the guineas are not lost
I would rather have lost them twice over than have had this happen
Now, if yours was low-class work like mine, you could go on with it just the same
Yes, I could
How much do you get for cutting these faggots
Half-a-crown a hundred, and in these long days I can live very well on the wages
Darling
I am much happier. And if my mother were reconciled to me and to you I should, I think, be happy quite
I fear that will never be
How CAN you say 'I am happier,' and nothing changed
It arises from my having at last discovered something I can do, and get a living at, in this time of misfortune
Yes
I am going to be a furze and turf-cutter
No, Clym
Surely I shall. Is it not very unwise in us to go on spending the little money we've got when I can keep down expenditure by an honest occupation? The outdoor exercise will do me good, and who knows but that in a few months I shall be able to go on with my reading again
But my grandfather offers to assist us, if we require assistance
We don't require it. If I go furze-cutting we shall be fairly well off
In comparison with slaves, and the Israelites in Egypt, and such people
Rasselas
Le point du jour A nos bosquets rend toute leur parure; Flore est plus belle a son retour; L'oiseau reprend doux chant d'amour; Tout celebre dans la nature Le point du jour. "Le point du jour Cause parfois, cause douleur extreme; Que l'espace des nuits est court Pour le berger brulant d'amour, Force de quitter ce qu'il aime Au point du jour
I would starve rather than do it
And you can sing! I will go and live with my grandfather again
Eustacia! I did not see you, though I noticed something moving
Why do you speak in such a strange way? It is only a little old song which struck my fancy when I was in Paris, and now just applies to my life with you. Has your love for me all died, then, because my appearance is no longer that of a fine gentleman
Dearest, you must not question me unpleasantly, or it may make me not love you
Do you believe it possible that I would run the risk of doing that
Well, you follow out your own ideas, and won't give in to mine when I wish you to leave off this shameful labour. Is there anything you dislike in me that you act so contrarily to my wishes? I am your wife, and why will you not listen? Yes, I am your wife indeed
I know what that tone means
What tone
The tone in which you said, 'Your wife indeed.' It meant, 'Your wife, worse luck
It is hard in you to probe me with that remark. A woman may have reason, though she is not without heart, and if I felt 'worse luck,' it was no ignoble feeling -- it was only too natural. There, you see that at any rate I do not attempt untruths. Do you remember how, before we were married, I warned you that I had not good wifely qualities
You mock me to say that now. On that point at least the only noble course would be to hold your tongue, for you are still queen of me, Eustacia, though I may no longer be king of you
You are my husband. Does not that content you
Not unless you are my wife without regret
I cannot answer you. I remember saying that I should be a serious matter on your hands
Yes, I saw that
Then you were too quick to see! No true lover would have seen any such thing; you are too severe upon me, Clym -- I don't like your speaking so at all
Well, I married you in spite of it, and don't regret doing so. How cold you seem this afternoon! and yet I used to think there never was a warmer heart than yours
Yes, I fear we are cooling -- I see it as well as you
And how madly we loved two months ago! You were never tired of contemplating me, nor I of contemplating you. Who could have thought then that by this time my eyes would not seem so very bright to yours, nor your lips so very sweet to mine? Two months -- is it possible? Yes, 'tis too true
You sigh, dear, as if you were sorry for it; and that's a hopeful sign
No. I don't sigh for that. There are other things for me to sigh for, or any other woman in my place
That your chances in life are ruined by marrying in haste an unfortunate man
Why will you force me, Clym, to say bitter things? I deserve pity as much as you. As much?-- I think I deserve it more. For you can sing! It would be a strange hour which should catch me singing under such a cloud as this! Believe me, sweet, I could weep to a degree that would astonish and confound such an elastic mind as yours. Even had you felt careless about your own affliction, you might have refrained from singing out of sheer pity for mine. God! if I were a man in such a position I would curse rather than sing
Now, don't you suppose, my inexperienced girl, that I cannot rebel, in high Promethean fashion, against the gods and fate as well as you. I have felt more steam and smoke of that sort than you have ever heard of. But the more I see of life the more do I perceive that there is nothing particularly great in its greatest walks, and therefore nothing particularly small in mine of furze-cutting. If I feel that the greatest blessings vouchsafed to us are not very valuable, how can I feel it to be any great hardship when they are taken away? So I sing to pass the time. Have you indeed lost all tenderness for me, that you begrudge me a few cheerful moments
I have still some tenderness left for you
Your words have no longer their old flavour. And so love dies with good fortune
I cannot listen to this, Clym -- it will end bitterly
I will go home
Come, brighten up, dearest; we shall be all right again. Some day perhaps I shall see as well as ever. And I solemnly promise that I'll leave off cutting furze as soon as I have the power to do anything better. You cannot seriously wish me to stay idling at home all day
But it is so dreadful -- a furze-cutter! and you a man who have lived about the world, and speak French, and German, and who are fit for what is so much better than this
I suppose when you first saw me and heard about me I was wrapped in a sort of golden halo to your eyes -- a man who knew glorious things, and had mixed in brilliant scenes -- in short, an adorable, delightful, distracting hero
Yes
And now I am a poor fellow in brown leather
Don't taunt me. But enough of this. I will not be depressed any more. I am going from home this afternoon, unless you greatly object. There is to be a village picnic -- a gipsying, they call it -- at East Egdon, and I shall go
To dance
Why not? You can sing
Well, well, as you will. Must I come to fetch you
If you return soon enough from your work. But do not inconvenience yourself about it. I know the way home, and the heath has no terror for me
And can you cling to gaiety so eagerly as to walk all the way to a village festival in search of it
Now, you don't like my going alone! Clym, you are not jealous
No. But I would come with you if it could give you any pleasure; though, as things stand, perhaps you have too much of me already. Still, I somehow wish that you did not want to go. Yes, perhaps I am jealous; and who could be jealous with more reason than I, a half-blind man, over such a woman as you
Don't think like it. Let me go, and don't take all my spirits away
I would rather lose all my own, my sweet wife. Go and do whatever you like. Who can forbid your indulgence in any whim? You have all my heart yet, I believe; and because you bear with me, who am in truth a drag upon you, I owe you thanks. Yes, go alone and shine. As for me, I will stick to my doom. At that kind of meeting people would shun me. My hook and gloves are like the St. Lazarus rattle of the leper, warning the world to get out of the way of a sight that would sadden them
Two wasted lives -- his and mine. And I am come to this! Will it drive me out of my mind
Look at the girl for whom nobody was good enough
But I'll shake it off. Yes, I WILL shake it off! No one shall know my suffering. I'll be bitterly merry, and ironically gay, and I'll laugh in derision. And I'll begin by going to this dance on the green
Do you like dancing as much as ever
I think I do
Will you dance with me
It would be a great change for me; but will it not seem strange
What strangeness can there be in relations dancing together
Ah -- yes, relations. Perhaps none
Still, if you don't like to be seen, pull down your veil; though there is not much risk of being known by this light. Lots of strangers are here
Who are they
The dance and the walking have tired you
No; not greatly
It is strange that we should have met here of all places, after missing each other so long
We have missed because we tried to miss, I suppose
Yes. But you began that proceeding -- by breaking a promise
It is scarcely worth while to talk of that now. We have formed other ties since then -- you no less than I
I am sorry to hear that your husband is ill
He is not ill -- only incapacitated
Yes: that is what I mean. I sincerely sympathize with you in your trouble. Fate has treated you cruelly
Have you heard that he has chosen to work as a furze-cutter
It has been mentioned to me
But I hardly believed it
It is true. What do you think of me as a furze-cutter's wife
I think the same as ever of you, Eustacia. Nothing of that sort can degrade you: you ennoble the occupation of your husband
I wish I could feel it
Is there any chance of Mr. Yeobright getting better
He thinks so. I doubt it
I was quite surprised to hear that he had taken a cottage. I thought, in common with other people, that he would have taken you off to a home in Paris immediately after you had married him. 'What a gay, bright future she has before her!' I thought. He will, I suppose, return there with you, if his sight gets strong again
You do not intend to walk home by yourself
O yes
What could hurt me on this heath, who have nothing
By diverging a little I can make my way home the same as yours. I shall be glad to keep you company as far as Throope Corner
Perhaps you think it unwise to be seen in the same road with me after the events of last summer
Indeed I think no such thing
I shall accept whose company I choose, for all that may be said by the miserable inhabitants of Egdon
Then let us walk on -- if you are ready. Our nearest way is towards that holly-bush with the dark shadow that you see down there
One of those men is my husband. He promised to come to meet me
And the other is my greatest enemy
It looks like Diggory Venn
That is the man
It is an awkward meeting
but such is my fortune. He knows too much about me, unless he could know more, and so prove to himself that what he now knows counts for nothing. Well, let it be: you must deliver me up to them
You will think twice before you direct me to do that. Here is a man who has not forgotten an item in our meetings at Rainbarrow: he is in company with your husband. Which of them, seeing us together here, will believe that our meeting and dancing at the gipsy-party was by chance
Very well
Leave me before they come up
My journey ends here for tonight, reddleman
I turn back with this lady. Good night
Good night, Mr. Yeobright
I hope to see you better soon
He is not at home yet, Diggory
But I expected him sooner. He has been to East Egdon to buy a horse
Did he wear a light wideawake
Yes
Then I saw him at Throope Corner, leading one home
A beauty, with a white face and a mane as black as night. He will soon be here, no doubt
Mr. Wildeve seems to be often away at this time
O yes
Husbands will play the truant, you know. I wish you could tell me of some secret plan that would help me to keep him home at my will in the evenings
I will consider if I know of one
Where is the horse, Damon
O, I have not bought it, after all. The man asks too much
But somebody saw you at Throope Corner leading it home -- a beauty, with a white face and a mane as black as night
Ah
who told you that
Venn the reddleman
That is a mistake -- it must have been some one else
Help me to keep him home in the evenings
You have a very high colour, dearest
Your appearance would be no worse if it were always so
I am warm
I think I will go into the air for a few minutes
Shall I go with you
O no. I am only going to the gate
I'll go -- I'll go
You had better not at this time of the evening
Nobody was there. I wonder what that could have meant
Damn him
He has been watching me again
Since it is unsafe to go in the evening
I'll go by day
Now, ma'am, depend upon it
you couldn't do a better thing for either of 'em than to make yourself at home in their houses, even if there should be a little rebuff at first
Both she and my son disobeyed me in marrying; therefore I have no interest in their households. Their troubles are of their own making
Your visits would make Wildeve walk straighter than he is inclined to do, and might prevent unhappiness down the heath
What do you mean
I saw something tonight out there which I didn't like at all. I wish your son's house and Mr. Wildeve's were a hundred miles apart instead of four or five
Then there WAS an understanding between him and Clym's wife when he made a fool of Thomasin
We'll hope there's no understanding now
And our hope will probably be very vain. O Clym! O Thomasin
There's no harm done yet. In fact, I've persuaded Wildeve to mind his own business
How
O, not by talking -- by a plan of mine called the silent system
I hope you'll succeed
I shall if you help me by calling and making friends with your son. You'll have a chance then of using your eyes
Well, since it has come to this
I will own to you, reddleman, that I thought of going. I should be much happier if we were reconciled. The marriage is unalterable, my life may be cut short, and I should wish to die in peace. He is my only son; and since sons are made of such stuff I am not sorry I have no other. As for Thomasin, I never expected much from her; and she has not disappointed me. But I forgave her long ago; and I forgive him now. I'll go
Since I have been away today, Eustacia, I have considered that something must be done to heal up this ghastly breach between my dear mother and myself. It troubles me
What do you propose to do
You seem to take a very mild interest in what I propose, little or much
You mistake me
I am only thinking
What of
Partly of that moth whose skeleton is getting burnt up in the wick of the candle
But you know I always take an interest in what you say
It is a thing I am not at all too proud to do, and only a fear that I might irritate her has kept me away so long. But I must do something. It is wrong in me to allow this sort of thing to go on
What have you to blame yourself about
She is getting old, and her life is lonely, and I am her only son
She has Thomasin
Thomasin is not her daughter; and if she were that would not excuse me. But this is beside the point. I have made up my mind to go to her, and all I wish to ask you is whether you will do your best to help me -- that is, forget the past; and if she shows her willingness to be reconciled, meet her half-way by welcoming her to our house, or by accepting a welcome to hers
I will put nothing in your way; but after what has passed it is asking too much that I go and make advances
You never distinctly told me what did pass between you
I could not do it then, nor can I now. Sometimes more bitterness is sown in five minutes than can be got rid of in a whole life; and that may be the case here
If you had never returned to your native place, Clym, what a blessing it would have been for you!... It has altered the destinies of
Three people
Five
Do you see that furze-cutter, ma'am, going up that footpath yond
Well, if you follow him you can make no mistake. He's going to the same place, ma'am
His walk is exactly as my husband's used to be
I hope you reached home safely
O yes
And were you not tired the next day? I feared you might be
I was rather. You need not speak low -- nobody will overhear us. My small servant is gone on an errand to the village
Then Clym is not at home
Yes, he is
O! I thought that perhaps you had locked the door because you were alone and were afraid of tramps
No -- here is my husband
You may go in; you will not disturb him
My reason for fastening the door is that he may not be intruded upon by any chance comer while lying here, if I should be in the garden or upstairs
Why is he sleeping there
He is very weary. He went out at half-past four this morning, and has been working ever since. He cuts furze because it is the only thing he can do that does not put any strain upon his poor eyes
Ah! you don't know how differently he appeared when I first met him, though it is such a little while ago. His hands were as white and soft as mine; and look at them now, how rough and brown they are! His complexion is by nature fair, and that rusty look he has now, all of a colour with his leather clothes, is caused by the burning of the sun
Why does he go out at all
Because he hates to be idle; though what he earns doesn't add much to our exchequer. However, he says that when people are living upon their capital they must keep down current expenses by turning a penny where they can
The fates have not been kind to you, Eustacia Yeobright
I have nothing to thank them for
Nor has he -- except for their one great gift to him
What's that
Well, I am a questionable gift
I thought you meant the gift of content -- which he has, and I have not
I can understand content in such a case -- though how the outward situation can attract him puzzles me
That's because you don't know him. He's an enthusiast about ideas, and careless about outward things. He often reminds me of the Apostle Paul
I am glad to hear that he's so grand in character as that
Yes; but the worst of it is that though Paul was excellent as a man in the Bible he would hardly have done in real life
Well, if that means that your marriage is a misfortune to you, you know who is to blame
The marriage is no misfortune in itself
It is simply the accident which has happened since that has been the cause of my ruin. I have certainly got thistles for figs in a worldly sense, but how could I tell what time would bring forth
Sometimes, Eustacia, I think it is a judgment upon you. You rightly belonged to me, you know; and I had no idea of losing you
No, it was not my fault! Two could not belong to you; and remember that, before I was aware, you turned aside to another woman. It was cruel levity in you to do that. I never dreamt of playing such a game on my side till you began it on yours
I meant nothing by it
It was a mere interlude. Men are given to the trick of having a passing fancy for somebody else in the midst of a permanent love, which reasserts itself afterwards just as before. On account of your rebellious manner to me I was tempted to go further than I should have done; and when you still would keep playing the same tantalizing part I went further still, and married her
I am afraid that you don't value your prize, Clym... He ought to be happier than I in one thing at least. He may know what it is to come down in the world, and to be afflicted with a great personal calamity; but he probably doesn't know what it is to lose the woman he loved
He is not ungrateful for winning her
and in that respect he is a good man. Many women would go far for such a husband. But do I desire unreasonably much in wanting what is called life -- music, poetry, passion, war, and all the beating and pulsing that are going on in the great arteries of the world? That was the shape of my youthful dream; but I did not get it. Yet I thought I saw the way to it in my Clym
And you only married him on that account
There you mistake me. I married him because I loved him, but I won't say that I didn't love him partly because I thought I saw a promise of that life in him
You have dropped into your old mournful key
But I am not going to be depressed
I began a new system by going to that dance, and I mean to stick to it. Clym can sing merrily; why should not I
It is easier to say you will sing than to do it; though if I could I would encourage you in your attempt. But as life means nothing to me, without one thing which is now impossible, you will forgive me for not being able to encourage you
Damon, what is the matter with you, that you speak like that
That's a thing I shall never tell plainly; and perhaps if I try to tell you in riddles you will not care to guess them
We are in a strange relationship today. You mince matters to an uncommon nicety. You mean, Damon, that you still love me. Well, that gives me sorrow, for I am not made so entirely happy by my marriage that I am willing to spurn you for the information, as I ought to do. But we have said too much about this. Do you mean to wait until my husband is awake
I thought to speak to him; but it is unnecessary. Eustacia, if I offend you by not forgetting you, you are right to mention it; but do not talk of spurning
God, how I envy him that sweet sleep
I have not slept like that since I was a boy -- years and years ago
Shall I go away
I hardly know
Who is it
Mrs. Yeobright. O, what she said to me that day! I cannot understand this visit -- what does she mean? And she suspects that past time of ours
I am in your hands. If you think she had better not see me here I'll go into the next room
Well, yes: go
No
we won't have any of this. If she comes in she must see you -- and think if she likes there's something wrong! But how can I open the door to her, when she dislikes me -- wishes to see not me, but her son? I won't open the door
Her knocking will, in all likelihood, awaken him
and then he will let her in himself. Ah -- listen
Mother
Yes -- he is awake -- he will go to the door
Come this way. I have a bad name with her, and you must not be seen. Thus I am obliged to act by stealth, not because I do ill, but because others are pleased to say so
Now, one word, Damon
This is your first visit here; let it be your last. We have been hot lovers in our time, but it won't do now. Good-bye
Good-bye
I have had all I came for, and I am satisfied
What was it
A sight of you. Upon my eternal honour I came for no more
'Tis too much -- Clym, how can he bear to do it! He is at home; and yet he lets her shut the door against me
'Tis a long way home, my child, and we shall not get there till evening
I shall
I am going to play marnels afore supper, and we go to supper at six o'clock, because father comes home. Does your father come home at six too
No, he never comes; nor my son either, nor anybody
What have made you so down? Have you seen a ooser
I have seen what's worse -- a woman's face looking at me through a window-pane
Is that a bad sight
Yes. It is always a bad sight to see a woman looking out at a weary wayfarer and not letting her in
Once when I went to Throope Great Pond to catch effets I seed myself looking up at myself, and I was frightened and jumped back like anything
What is it you say
Never again -- never! Not even if they send for me
You must be a very curious woman to talk like that
O no, not at all
Most people who grow up and have children talk as I do. When you grow up your mother will talk as I do too
I hope she won't; because 'tis very bad to talk nonsense
Yes, child; it is nonsense, I suppose. Are you not nearly spent with the heat
Yes. But not so much as you be
How do you know
Your face is white and wet, and your head is hanging-down-like
Ah, I am exhausted from inside
Why do you, every time you take a step, go like this
Because I have a burden which is more than I can bear
I must sit down here to rest
How funny you draw your breath -- like a lamb when you drive him till he's nearly done for. Do you always draw your breath like that
Not always
You will go to sleep there, I suppose, won't you? You have shut your eyes already
No. I shall not sleep much till -- another day, and then I hope to have a long, long one -- very long. Now can you tell me if Rimsmoor Pond is dry this summer
Rimsmoor Pond is, but Oker's Pool isn't, because he is deep, and is never dry --'tis just over there
Is the water clear
Yes, middling -- except where the heath-croppers walk into it
Then, take this, and go as fast as you can, and dip me up the clearest you can find. I am very faint
I like going on better than biding still. Will you soon start again
I don't know
I wish I might go on by myself
Do you want me any more, please
What shall I tell mother
Tell her you have seen a broken-hearted woman cast off by her son
Well, indeed
How soundly I have slept! I have had such a tremendous dream, too: one I shall never forget
I thought you had been dreaming
Yes. It was about my mother. I dreamt that I took you to her house to make up differences, and when we got there we couldn't get in, though she kept on crying to us for help. However, dreams are dreams. What o'clock is it, Eustacia
Half-past two
So late, is it? I didn't mean to stay so long. By the time I have had something to eat it will be after three
Ann is not come back from the village, and I thought I would let you sleep on till she returned
Week after week passes, and yet mother does not come. I thought I should have heard something from her long before this
I must certainly go to Blooms-End soon
and I think I had better go alone
As dinner will be so late today I will not go back to the heath, but work in the garden till the evening, and then, when it will be cooler, I will walk to Blooms-End. I am quite sure that if I make a little advance mother will be willing to forget all. It will be rather late before I can get home, as I shall not be able to do the distance either way in less than an hour and a half. But you will not mind for one evening, dear? What are you thinking of to make you look so abstracted
I cannot tell you
I wish we didn't live here, Clym. The world seems all wrong in this place
Well -- if we make it so. I wonder if Thomasin has been to Blooms-End lately. I hope so. But probably not, as she is, I believe, expecting to be confined in a month or so. I wish I had thought of that before. Poor mother must indeed be very lonely
I don't like you going tonight
Why not tonight
Something may be said which will terribly injure me
My mother is not vindictive
But I wish you would not go
If you agree not to go tonight I promise to go by myself to her house tomorrow, and make it up with her, and wait till you fetch me
Why do you want to do that at this particular time, when at every previous time that I have proposed it you have refused
I cannot explain further than that I should like to see her alone before you go
Well, it is very odd that just when I had decided to go myself you should want to do what I proposed long ago. If I wait for you to go tomorrow another day will be lost; and I know I shall be unable to rest another night without having been. I want to get this settled, and will. You must visit her afterwards: it will be all the same
I could even go with you now
You could scarcely walk there and back without a longer rest than I shall take. No, not tonight, Eustacia
Let it be as you say, then
O, what is it! Mother, are you very ill -- you are not dying
I am your Clym. How did you come here? What does it all mean
Does that hurt you
I know what it is
She has been stung by an adder
Yes
I remember when I was a child seeing just such a bite. O, my poor mother
It was my father who was bit
And there's only one way to cure it. You must rub the place with the fat of other adders, and the only way to get that is by frying them. That's what they did for him
'Tis an old remedy
and I have doubts about it. But we can do nothing else till the doctor comes
'Tis a sure cure
I've used it when I used to go out nursing
Then we must pray for daylight, to catch them
I will see what I can do
I have only been able to get one alive and fresh as he ought to be
These limp ones are two I killed today at work; but as they don't die till the sun goes down they can't be very stale meat
Look at that
Neighbours, how do we know but that something of the old serpent in God's garden, that gied the apple to the young woman with no clothes, lives on in adders and snakes still? Look at his eye -- for all the world like a villainous sort of black currant. 'Tis to be hoped he can't ill-wish us! There's folks in heath who've been overlooked already. I will never kill another adder as long as I live
Well, 'tis right to be afeard of things, if folks can't help it
'Twould have saved me many a brave danger in my time
I fancy I heard something outside the shed
I wish troubles would come in the daytime, for then a man could show his courage, and hardly beg for mercy of the most broomstick old woman he should see, if he was a brave man, and able to run out of her sight
Even such an ignorant fellow as I should know better than do that
Well, there's calamities where we least expect it, whether or no. Neighbours, if Mrs. Yeobright were to die, d'ye think we should be took up and tried for the manslaughter of a woman
No, they couldn't bring it in as that
unless they could prove we had been poachers at some time of our lives. But she'll fetch round
Now, if I had been stung by ten adders I should hardly have lost a day's work for't
Such is my spirit when I am on my mettle. But perhaps 'tis natural in a man trained for war. Yes, I've gone through a good deal; but nothing ever came amiss to me after I joined the Locals in four
I was always first in the most galliantest scrapes in my younger days
I suppose that was because they always used to put the biggest fool afore
D'ye think so, Timothy
Then a man may feel for years that he is good solid company, and be wrong about himself after all
Never mind that question, Grandfer. Stir your stumps and get some more sticks. 'Tis very nonsense of an old man to prattle so when life and death's in mangling
Yes, yes
Well, this is a bad night altogether for them that have done well in their time; and if I were ever such a dab at the hautboy or tenor-viol, I shouldn't have the heart to play tunes upon 'em now
I can't stay a minute, thank ye
I am driving to East Egdon; but I came round here just to tell you the news. Perhaps you have heard -- about Mr. Wildeve's fortune
No
Well, he has come into a fortune of eleven thousand pounds -- uncle died in Canada, just after hearing that all his family, whom he was sending home, had gone to the bottom in the _Cassiopeia_; so Wildeve has come into everything, without in the least expecting it
How long has he known of this
Well, it was known to him this morning early, for I knew it at ten o'clock, when Charley came back. Now, he is what I call a lucky man. What a fool you were, Eustacia
In what way
Why, in not sticking to him when you had him
Had him, indeed
I did not know there had ever been anything between you till lately; and, faith, I should have been hot and strong against it if I had known; but since it seems that there was some sniffing between ye, why the deuce didn't you stick to him
And how is your poor purblind husband
Not a bad fellow either, as far as he goes
He is quite well
It is a good thing for his cousin what-d'ye-call-her? By George, you ought to have been in that galley, my girl! Now I must drive on. Do you want any assistance? What's mine is yours, you know
Thank you, grandfather, we are not in want at present
Clym cuts furze, but he does it mostly as a useful pastime, because he can do nothing else
He is paid for his pastime, isn't he? Three shillings a hundred, I heard
Clym has money
but he likes to earn a little
Very well; good night
O I see it, I see it
How much he wishes he had me now, that he might give me all I desire
Had he been a man to bear a jilt ill-will he would have told me of his good fortune in crowing tones; instead of doing that he mentioned not a word, in deference to my misfortunes, and merely implied that he loved me still, as one superior to him
How did you come here
I thought you were at home
I went on to the village after leaving your garden; and now I have come back again: that's all. Which way are you walking, may I ask
I am going to meet my husband. I think I may possibly have got into trouble whilst you were with me today
How could that be
By not letting in Mrs. Yeobright
I hope that visit of mine did you no harm
None. It was not your fault
I assume I must congratulate you
On what? O yes; on my eleven thousand pounds, you mean. Well, since I didn't get something else, I must be content with getting that
You seem very indifferent about it. Why didn't you tell me today when you came
I heard of it quite by accident
I did mean to tell you
But I -- well, I will speak frankly -- I did not like to mention it when I saw, Eustacia, that your star was not high. The sight of a man lying wearied out with hard work, as your husband lay, made me feel that to brag of my own fortune to you would be greatly out of place. Yet, as you stood there beside him, I could not help feeling too that in many respects he was a richer man than I
What, would you exchange with him -- your fortune for me
I certainly would
As we are imagining what is impossible and absurd, suppose we change the subject
Very well; and I will tell you of my plans for the future, if you care to hear them. I shall permanently invest nine thousand pounds, keep one thousand as ready money, and with the remaining thousand travel for a year or so
Travel? What a bright idea! Where will you go to
From here to Paris, where I shall pass the winter and spring. Then I shall go to Italy, Greece, Egypt, and Palestine, before the hot weather comes on. In the summer I shall go to America; and then, by a plan not yet settled, I shall go to Australia and round to India. By that time I shall have begun to have had enough of it. Then I shall probably come back to Paris again, and there I shall stay as long as I can afford to
Back to Paris again
You think a good deal of Paris
Yes. In my opinion it is the central beauty-spot of the world
And in mine! And Thomasin will go with you
Yes, if she cares to. She may prefer to stay at home
So you will be going about, and I shall be staying here
I suppose you will. But we know whose fault that is
I am not blaming you
Oh, I thought you were. If ever you SHOULD be inclined to blame me, think of a certain evening by Rainbarrow, when you promised to meet me and did not. You sent me a letter; and my heart ached to read that as I hope yours never will. That was one point of divergence. I then did something in haste... But she is a good woman, and I will say no more
I know that the blame was on my side that time
But it had not always been so. However, it is my misfortune to be too sudden in feeling. O, Damon, don't reproach me any more -- I can't bear that
Haven't you come out of your way, Mr. Wildeve
My way is anywhere tonight. I will go with you as far as the hill on which we can see Blooms-End, as it is getting late for you to be alone
Don't trouble. I am not obliged to be out at all. I think I would rather you did not accompany me further. This sort of thing would have an odd look if known
Very well, I will leave you
What light is that on the hill
Since you have come so far
will you see me safely past that hut? I thought I should have met Clym somewhere about here, but as he doesn't appear I will hasten on and get to Blooms-End before he leaves
It is my husband and his mother
What can it mean? Will you step forward and tell me
It is a serious case
I cannot think where she could have been going
She had evidently walked a long way, but even when she was able to speak just now she would not tell me where. What do you really think of her
There is a great deal to fear
She has suffered somewhat from the bite of the adder; but it is exhaustion which has overpowered her. My impression is that her walk must have been exceptionally long
I used to tell her not to overwalk herself this weather
Do you think we did well in using the adder's fat
Well, it is a very ancient remedy -- the old remedy of the viper-catchers, I believe
It is mentioned as an infallible ointment by Hoffman, Mead, and I think the Abbe Fontana. Undoubtedly it was as good a thing as you could do; though I question if some other oils would not have been equally efficacious
Come here, come here
Oh, what is it
'Twas Thomasin who spoke
Then they have fetched her. I wonder if I had better go in -- yet it might do harm
O Doctor, what does it mean
She is sinking fast. Her heart was previously affected, and physical exhaustion has dealt the finishing blow
It is all over
Mrs. Yeobright is dead
I've got something to tell 'ee, mother
That woman asleep there walked along with me today; and she said I was to say that I had seed her, and she was a broken-hearted woman and cast off by her son, and then I came on home
That's Clym -- I must go to him -- yet dare I do it? No: come away
I am to blame for this. There is evil in store for me
Was she not admitted to your house after all
No; and that's where it all lies! Oh, what shall I do! I shall not intrude upon them: I shall go straight home. Damon, good-bye! I cannot speak to you any more now
How is he tonight, ma'am, if you please
He is better, though still very unwell, Humphrey
Is he light-headed, ma'am
No. He is quite sensible now
Do he rave about his mother just the same, poor fellow
Just as much, though not quite so wildly
It was very unfortunate, ma'am, that the boy Johnny should ever ha' told him his mother's dying words, about her being broken-hearted and cast off by her son. 'Twas enough to upset any man alive
Is it you, Eustacia
Yes, Clym. I have been down to the gate. The moon is shining beautifully, and there is not a leaf stirring
Shining, is it? What's the moon to a man like me? Let it shine -- let anything be, so that I never see another day!... Eustacia, I don't know where to look: my thoughts go through me like swords. O, if any man wants to make himself immortal by painting a picture of wretchedness, let him come here
Why do you say so
I cannot help feeling that I did my best to kill her
No, Clym
Yes, it was so; it is useless to excuse me! My conduct to her was too hideous -- I made no advances; and she could not bring herself to forgive me. Now she is dead! If I had only shown myself willing to make it up with her sooner, and we had been friends, and then she had died, it wouldn't be so hard to bear. But I never went near her house, so she never came near mine, and didn't know how welcome she would have been -- that's what troubles me. She did not know I was going to her house that very night, for she was too insensible to understand me. If she had only come to see me! I longed that she would. But it was not to be
That's because you didn't know my mother's nature. She was always ready to forgive if asked to do so; but I seemed to her to be as an obstinate child, and that made her unyielding. Yet not unyielding: she was proud and reserved, no more... Yes, I can understand why she held out against me so long. She was waiting for me. I dare say she said a hundred times in her sorrow, 'What a return he makes for all the sacrifices I have made for him!' I never went to her! When I set out to visit her it was too late. To think of that is nearly intolerable
If I could only get one assurance that she did not die in a belief that I was resentful
it would be better to think of than a hope of heaven. But that I cannot do
You give yourself up too much to this wearying despair
Other men's mothers have died
That doesn't make the loss of mine less. Yet it is less the loss than the circumstances of the loss. I sinned against her, and on that account there is no light for me
She sinned against you, I think
No, she did not. I committed the guilt; and may the whole burden be upon my head
I think you might consider twice before you say that
Single men have, no doubt, a right to curse themselves as much as they please; but men with wives involve two in the doom they pray down
I am in too sorry a state to understand what you are refining on
Day and night shout at me, 'You have helped to kill her.' But in loathing myself I may, I own, be unjust to you, my poor wife. Forgive me for it, Eustacia, for I scarcely know what I do
Ah, Thomasin! Thank you for coming tonight
Here am I, you see. Such a wretched spectacle am I, that I shrink from being seen by a single friend, and almost from you
You must not shrink from me, dear Clym
Nothing in you can ever shock me or drive me away. I have been here before, but you don't remember it
Yes, I do; I am not delirious, Thomasin, nor have I been so at all. Don't you believe that if they say so. I am only in great misery at what I have done: and that, with the weakness, makes me seem mad. But it has not upset my reason. Do you think I should remember all about my mother's death if I were out of my mind? No such good luck. Two months and a half, Thomasin, the last of her life, did my poor mother live alone, distracted and mourning because of me; yet she was unvisited by me, though I was living only six miles off. Two months and a half -- seventy-five days did the sun rise and set upon her in that deserted state which a dog didn't deserve! Poor people who had nothing in common with her would have cared for her, and visited her had they known her sickness and loneliness; but I, who should have been all to her, stayed away like a cur. If there is any justice in God let Him kill me now. He has nearly blinded me, but that is not enough. If He would only strike me with more pain I would believe in Him for ever
Hush, hush! O, pray, Clym, don't, don't say it
But I am not worth receiving further proof even of Heaven's reprobation. Do you think, Thomasin, that she knew me -- that she did not die in that horrid mistaken notion about my not forgiving her, which I can't tell you how she acquired? If you could only assure me of that! Do you think so, Eustacia? Do speak to me
I think I can assure you that she knew better at last
Why didn't she come to my house? I would have taken her in and showed her how I loved her in spite of all. But she never came; and I didn't go to her, and she died on the heath like an animal kicked out, nobody to help her till it was too late. If you could have seen her, Thomasin, as I saw her -- a poor dying woman, lying in the dark upon the bare ground, moaning, nobody near, believing she was utterly deserted by all the world, it would have moved you to anguish, it would have moved a brute. And this poor woman my mother! No wonder she said to the child, 'You have seen a broken-hearted woman.' What a state she must have been brought to, to say that! and who can have done it but I? It is too dreadful to think of, and I wish I could be punished more heavily than I am. How long was I what they called out of my senses
A week, I think
And then I became calm
Yes, for four days
And now I have left off being calm
But try to be quiet: please do, and you will soon be strong. If you could remove that impression from your mind
Yes, yes
But I don't want to get strong. What's the use of my getting well? It would be better for me if I die, and it would certainly be better for Eustacia. Is Eustacia there
Yes
It would be better for you, Eustacia, if I were to die
Don't press such a question, dear Clym
Well, it really is but a shadowy supposition; for unfortunately I am going to live. I feel myself getting better. Thomasin, how long are you going to stay at the inn, now that all this money has come to your husband
Another month or two, probably; until my illness is over. We cannot get off till then. I think it will be a month or more
Yes, yes. Of course. Ah, Cousin Tamsie, you will get over your trouble -- one little month will take you through it, and bring something to console you; but I shall never get over mine, and no consolation will come
Clym, you are unjust to yourself. Depend upon it, aunt thought kindly of you. I know that, if she had lived, you would have been reconciled with her
But she didn't come to see me, though I asked her, before I married, if she would come. Had she come, or had I gone there, she would never have died saying, 'I am a broken-hearted woman, cast off by my son.' My door has always been open to her -- a welcome here has always awaited her. But that she never came to see
You had better not talk any more now, Clym
Let me talk to you instead for the little time I shall be here
Consider what a one-sided way you have of looking at the matter, Clym. When she said that to the little boy you had not found her and taken her into your arms; and it might have been uttered in a moment of bitterness. It was rather like aunt to say things in haste. She sometimes used to speak so to me. Though she did not come I am convinced that she thought of coming to see you. Do you suppose a man's mother could live two or three months without one forgiving thought? She forgave me; and why should she not have forgiven you
You laboured to win her round; I did nothing. I, who was going to teach people the higher secrets of happiness, did not know how to keep out of that gross misery which the most untaught are wise enough to avoid
How did you get here tonight, Thomasin
Damon set me down at the end of the lane. He has driven into East Egdon on business, and he will come and pick me up by-and-by
Send out and tell him I will be down in two minutes
I will run down myself
Well
I have not yet told him
Then don't do so till he is well -- it will be fatal. You are ill yourself
I am wretched... O Damon
I -- I can't tell you how unhappy I am! I can hardly bear this. I can tell nobody of my trouble -- nobody knows of it but you
Poor girl
It is hard, when you have done nothing to deserve it, that you should have got involved in such a web as this. You were not made for these sad scenes. I am to blame most. If I could only have saved you from it all
But, Damon, please pray tell me what I must do? To sit by him hour after hour, and hear him reproach himself as being the cause of her death, and to know that I am the sinner, if any human being is at all, drives me into cold despair. I don't know what to do. Should I tell him or should I not tell him? I always am asking myself that. O, I want to tell him; and yet I am afraid. If he find it out he must surely kill me, for nothing else will be in proportion to his feelings now. 'Beware the fury of a patient man' sounds day by day in my ears as I watch him
Well, wait till he is better, and trust to chance. And when you tell, you must only tell part -- for his own sake
Which part should I keep back
That I was in the house at the time
Yes; it must be concealed, seeing what has been whispered. How much easier are hasty actions than speeches that will excuse them
If he were only to die
Do not think of it! I would not buy hope of immunity by so cowardly a desire even if I hated him. Now I am going up to him again. Thomasin bade me tell you she would be down in a few minutes. Good-bye
Christian, isn't it
I am glad you have found me out. I shall soon want you to go to Blooms-End and assist me in putting the house in order. I suppose it is all locked up as I left it
Yes, Mister Clym
Have you dug up the potatoes and other roots
Yes, without a drop o' rain, thank God. But I was coming to tell 'ee of something else which is quite different from what we have lately had in the family. I am sent by the rich gentleman at the Woman, that we used to call the landlord, to tell 'ee that Mrs. Wildeve is doing well of a girl, which was born punctually at one o'clock at noon, or a few minutes more or less; and 'tis said that expecting of this increase is what have kept 'em there since they came into their money
And she is getting on well, you say
Yes, sir. Only Mr. Wildeve is twanky because 'tisn't a boy -- that's what they say in the kitchen, but I was not supposed to notice that
Christian, now listen to me
Yes, sure, Mr. Yeobright
Did you see my mother the day before she died
No, I did not
But I zeed her the morning of the same day she died
That's nearer still to my meaning
Yes, I know 'twas the same day; for she said, 'I be going to see him, Christian; so I shall not want any vegetables brought in for dinner
See whom
See you. She was going to your house, you understand
Why did you never mention this
Are you sure it was my house she was coming to
O yes. I didn't mention it because I've never zeed you lately. And as she didn't get there it was all nought, and nothing to tell
And I have been wondering why she should have walked in the heath on that hot day! Well, did she say what she was coming for? It is a thing, Christian, I am very anxious to know
Yes, Mister Clym. She didn't say it to me, though I think she did to one here and there
Do you know one person to whom she spoke of it
There is one man, please, sir, but I hope you won't mention my name to him, as I have seen him in strange places, particular in dreams. One night last summer he glared at me like Famine and Sword, and it made me feel so low that I didn't comb out my few hairs for two days. He was standing, as it might be, Mister Yeobright, in the middle of the path to Mistover, and your mother came up, looking as pale
Yes, when was that
Last summer, in my dream
Pooh! Who's the man
Diggory, the reddleman. He called upon her and sat with her the evening before she set out to see you. I hadn't gone home from work when he came up to the gate
I must see Venn -- I wish I had known it before
I wonder why he has not come to tell me
He went out of Egdon Heath the next day, so would not be likely to know you wanted him
Christian
you must go and find Venn. I am otherwise engaged, or I would go myself. Find him at once, and tell him I want to speak to him
I am a good hand at hunting up folk by day
but as to nighttime, never is such a bad hand as I, Mister Yeobright
Search the heath when you will, so that you bring him soon. Bring him tomorrow, if you can
Inquire as much as you can tomorrow without neglecting your work
Don't come again till you have found him
Good morning
Is Mrs. Yeobright at home
Then you have not seen Christian or any of the Egdon folks
No. I have only just returned after a long stay away. I called here the day before I left
And you have heard nothing
Nothing
My mother is -- dead
Dead
Her home now is where I shouldn't mind having mine
If I didn't see your face I could never believe your words. Have you been ill
I had an illness
Well, the change! When I parted from her a month ago everything seemed to say that she was going to begin a new life
And what seemed came true
You say right, no doubt. Trouble has taught you a deeper vein of talk than mine. All I meant was regarding her life here. She has died too soon
Perhaps through my living too long. I have had a bitter experience on that score this last month, Diggory. But come in; I have been wanting to see you
There's the cold fireplace, you see
When that half-burnt log and those cinders were alight she was alive! Little has been changed here yet. I can do nothing. My life creeps like a snail
How came she to die
After this no kind of pain will ever seem more than an indisposition to me.-- I began saying that I wanted to ask you something, but I stray from subjects like a drunken man. I am anxious to know what my mother said to you when she last saw you. You talked with her a long time, I think
I talked with her more than half an hour
About me
Yes. And it must have been on account of what we said that she was on the heath. Without question she was coming to see you
But why should she come to see me if she felt so bitterly against me? There's the mystery
Yet I know she quite forgave 'ee
But, Diggory -- would a woman, who had quite forgiven her son, say, when she felt herself ill on the way to his house, that she was broken-hearted because of his ill-usage? Never
What I know is that she didn't blame you at all. She blamed herself for what had happened, only herself. I had it from her own lips
You had it from her lips that I had NOT ill-treated her; and at the same time another had it from her lips that I HAD ill-treated her? My mother was no impulsive woman who changed her opinion every hour without reason. How can it be, Venn, that she should have told such different stories in close succession
I cannot say. It is certainly odd, when she had forgiven you, and had forgiven your wife, and was going to see ye on purpose to make friends
If there was one thing wanting to bewilder me it was this incomprehensible thing!... Diggory, if we, who remain alive, were only allowed to hold conversation with the dead -- just once, a bare minute, even through a screen of iron bars, as with persons in prison -- what we might learn! How many who now ride smiling would hide their heads! And this mystery -- I should then be at the bottom of it at once. But the grave has for ever shut her in; and how shall it be found out now
I wish to see him
to ask him if he remembers anything more of his walk with my mother than what he has previously told
You want another of the knocks which have already laid you so low
Now, Johnny, tell Mr. Yeobright anything you can call to mind
You have not forgotten how you walked with the poor lady on that hot day
No
And what she said to you
She was going to Alderworth when you first met her
No; she was coming away
That can't be
Yes; she walked along with me. I was coming away too
Then where did you first see her
At your house
Attend, and speak the truth
Yes, sir; at your house was where I seed her first
Something sinister is coming
What did she do at my house
She went and sat under the trees at the Devil's Bellows
Good God! this is all news to me
You never told me this before
No, mother; because I didn't like to tell 'ee I had been so far. I was picking black-hearts, and went further than I meant
What did she do then
Looked at a man who came up and went into your house
That was myself -- a furze-cutter, with brambles in his hand
No; 'twas not you. 'Twas a gentleman. You had gone in afore
Who was he
I don't know
Now tell me what happened next
The poor lady went and knocked at your door, and the lady with black hair looked out of the side window at her
This is something you didn't expect
Go on, go on
And when she saw the young lady look out of the window the old lady knocked again; and when nobody came she took up the furze-hook and looked at it, and put it down again, and then she looked at the faggot-bonds; and then she went away, and walked across to me, and blowed her breath very hard, like this. We walked on together, she and I, and I talked to her and she talked to me a bit, but not much, because she couldn't blow her breath
O
Let's have more
She couldn't talk much, and she couldn't walk; and her face was, O so queer
How was her face
Like yours is now
Isn't there meaning in it
What do you think of her now
Silence
And then you left her to die
No
He did not leave her to die! She sent him away. Whoever says he forsook her says what's not true
Trouble no more about that
What he did is a trifle in comparison with what he saw. Door kept shut, did you say? Kept shut, she looking out of window? Good heart of God!-- what does it mean
He said so
and Johnny's a God-fearing boy and tells no lies
Cast off by my son!' No, by my best life, dear mother, it is not so! But by your son's, your son's -- May all murderesses get the torment they deserve
You know what is the matter
I see it in your face
Speak to me
Yes, Clym, I'll speak to you. Why do you return so early? Can I do anything for you
Yes, you can listen to me. It seems that my wife is not very well
Why
Your face, my dear; your face. Or perhaps it is the pale morning light which takes your colour away? Now I am going to reveal a secret to you. Ha-ha
O, that is ghastly
What
Your laugh
There's reason for ghastliness. Eustacia, you have held my happiness in the hollow of your hand, and like a devil you have dashed it down
Ah! you think to frighten me
Is it worth while? I am undefended, and alone
How extraordinary
What do you mean
As there is ample time I will tell you, though you know well enough. I mean that it is extraordinary that you should be alone in my absence. Tell me, now, where is he who was with you on the afternoon of the thirty-first of August? Under the bed? Up the chimney
I do not remember dates so exactly
I cannot recollect that anybody was with me besides yourself
The day I mean
was the day you shut the door against my mother and killed her. O, it is too much -- too bad
Tell me, tell me! tell me -- do you hear
What are you going to do
You will not alarm me by holding on so; but it would be a pity to tear my sleeve
Tell me the particulars of -- my mother's death
or -- I'll -- I'll
Clym
do you think you dare do anything to me that I dare not bear? But before you strike me listen. You will get nothing from me by a blow, even though it should kill me, as it probably will. But perhaps you do not wish me to speak -- killing may be all you mean
Kill you! Do you expect it
I do
Why
No less degree of rage against me will match your previous grief for her
Phew -- I shall not kill you
I did think of it; but -- I shall not. That would be making a martyr of you, and sending you to where she is; and I would keep you away from her till the universe come to an end, if I could
I almost wish you would kill me
It is with no strong desire, I assure you, that I play the part I have lately played on earth. You are no blessing, my husband
You shut the door -- you looked out of the window upon her -- you had a man in the house with you -- you sent her away to die. The inhumanity -- the treachery -- I will not touch you -- stand away from me -- and confess every word
Never! I'll hold my tongue like the very death that I don't mind meeting, even though I can clear myself of half you believe by speaking. Yes. I will! Who of any dignity would take the trouble to clear cobwebs from a wild man's mind after such language as this? No; let him go on, and think his narrow thoughts, and run his head into the mire. I have other cares
'Tis too much -- but I must spare you
Poor charity
By my wretched soul you sting me, Eustacia! I can keep it up, and hotly too. Now, then, madam, tell me his name
Never, I am resolved
How often does he write to you? Where does he put his letters -- when does he meet you? Ah, his letters! Do you tell me his name
I do not
Then I'll find it myself
Unlock this
You have no right to say it. That's mine
Stay
Come, come! stand away! I must see them
Can you read, madam? Look at this envelope. Doubtless we shall find more soon, and what was inside them. I shall no doubt be gratified by learning in good time what a well-finished and full-blown adept in a certain trade my lady is
Do you say it to me -- do you
What was in this letter
Ask the writer. Am I your hound that you should talk to me in this way
Do you brave me? do you stand me out, mistress? Answer. Don't look at me with those eyes as if you would bewitch me again! Sooner than that I die. You refuse to answer
I wouldn't tell you after this, if I were as innocent as the sweetest babe in heaven
Which you are not
Certainly I am not absolutely
I have not done what you suppose; but if to have done no harm at all is the only innocence recognized, I am beyond forgiveness. But I require no help from your conscience
You can resist, and resist again! Instead of hating you I could, I think, mourn for and pity you, if you were contrite, and would confess all. Forgive you I never can. I don't speak of your lover -- I will give you the benefit of the doubt in that matter, for it only affects me personally. But the other: had you half-killed ME, had it been that you wilfully took the sight away from these feeble eyes of mine, I could have forgiven you. But THAT'S too much for nature
Say no more. I will do without your pity. But I would have saved you from uttering what you will regret
I am going away now. I shall leave you
You need not go, as I am going myself. You will keep just as far away from me by staying here
Call her to mind -- think of her -- what goodness there was in her: it showed in every line of her face! Most women, even when but slightly annoyed, show a flicker of evil in some curl of the mouth or some corner of the cheek; but as for her, never in her angriest moments was there anything malicious in her look. She was angered quickly, but she forgave just as readily, and underneath her pride there was the meekness of a child. What came of it?-- what cared you? You hated her just as she was learning to love you. O! couldn't you see what was best for you, but must bring a curse upon me, and agony and death upon her, by doing that cruel deed! What was the fellow's name who was keeping you company and causing you to add cruelty to her to your wrong to me? Was it Wildeve? Was it poor Thomasin's husband? Heaven, what wickedness! Lost your voice, have you? It is natural after detection of that most noble trick... Eustacia, didn't any tender thought of your own mother lead you to think of being gentle to mine at such a time of weariness? Did not one grain of pity enter your heart as she turned away? Think what a vast opportunity was then lost of beginning a forgiving and honest course. Why did not you kick him out, and let her in, and say I'll be an honest wife and a noble woman from this hour? Had I told you to go and quench eternally our last flickering chance of happiness here you could have done no worse. Well, she's asleep now; and have you a hundred gallants, neither they nor you can insult her any more
You exaggerate fearfully
but I cannot enter into my defence -- it is not worth doing. You are nothing to me in future, and the past side of the story may as well remain untold. I have lost all through you, but I have not complained. Your blunders and misfortunes may have been a sorrow to you, but they have been a wrong to me. All persons of refinement have been scared away from me since I sank into the mire of marriage. Is this your cherishing -- to put me into a hut like this, and keep me like the wife of a hind? You deceived me -- not by words, but by appearances, which are less seen through than words. But the place will serve as well as any other -- as somewhere to pass from -- into my grave
I don't know what you mean by that. Am I the cause of your sin
What, you can begin to shed tears and offer me your hand? Good God! can you? No, not I. I'll not commit the fault of taking that
Well, yes, I'll take it, if only for the sake of my own foolish kisses that were wasted there before I knew what I cherished. How bewitched I was! How could there be any good in a woman that everybody spoke ill of
O, O, O
O, will you have done! O, you are too relentless -- there's a limit to the cruelty of savages! I have held out long -- but you crush me down. I beg for mercy -- I cannot bear this any longer -- it is inhuman to go further with this! If I had -- killed your -- mother with my own hand -- I should not deserve such a scourging to the bone as this. O, O! God have mercy upon a miserable woman!... You have beaten me in this game -- I beg you to stay your hand in pity!... I confess that I -- wilfully did not undo the door the first time she knocked -- but -- I -- should have unfastened it the second -- if I had not thought you had gone to do it yourself. When I found you had not I opened it, but she was gone. That's the extent of my crime -- towards HER. Best natures commit bad faults sometimes, don't they?-- I think they do. Now I will leave you -- for ever and ever
Tell all, and I WILL pity you. Was the man in the house with you Wildeve
I cannot tell
Don't insist further -- I cannot tell. I am going from this house. We cannot both stay here
You need not go: I will go. You can stay here
No, I will dress, and then I will go
Where
Where I came from, or ELSEwhere
Let me tie them
Do you still prefer going away yourself to my leaving you
I do
Very well -- let it be. And when you will confess to the man I may pity you
Well
Somebody from Mrs. Wildeve's have called to tell 'ee that the mis'ess and the baby are getting on wonderful well, and the baby's name is to be Eustacia Clementine
What a mockery
This unhappy marriage of mine to be perpetuated in that child's name
Captain Vye is not at home
No, ma'am
he's gone to Weatherbury, and won't be home till night. And the servant is gone home for a holiday. So the house is locked up
You are poorly, ma'am. What can I do
Ah, Charley -- you have followed me. You did not think when I left home in the summer that I should come back like this
I did not, dear ma'am. Can I help you now
I am afraid not. I wish I could get into the house. I feel giddy -- that's all
Lean on my arm, ma'am, till we get to the porch, and I will try to open the door
Shall I get you something to eat and drink
If you please, Charley. But I suppose there is no fire
I can light it, ma'am
I have lighted a fire in the kitchen, and now I'll light one here
Shall I wheel you round in front of it, ma'am, as the morning is chilly
Yes, if you like
Shall I go and bring the victuals now
Yes, do
Place it on the table
I shall be ready soon
Let me hold it to you, if you don't wish to get up
I will hold it for you
You are very kind to me, Charley
Well, I ought to be
You have been kind to me
How have I
You let me hold your hand when you were a maiden at home
Ah, so I did. Why did I do that? My mind is lost -- it had to do with the mumming, had it not
Yes, you wanted to go in my place
I remember. I do indeed remember -- too well
If I could only do it
It would be doing much good to myself and all connected with me, and no harm to a single one
You have taken them away
Yes, ma'am
Why did you do it
I saw you looking at them too long
What has that to do with it
You have been heart-broken all the morning, as if you did not want to live
Well
And I could not bear to leave them in your way. There was meaning in your look at them
Where are they now
Locked up
Where
In the stable
Give them to me
No, ma'am
You refuse
I do. I care too much for you to give 'em up
Why should I not die if I wish
I have made a bad bargain with life, and I am weary of it -- weary. And now you have hindered my escape. O, why did you, Charley! What makes death painful except the thought of others' grief?-- and that is absent in my case, for not a sigh would follow me
Ah, it is trouble that has done this! I wish in my very soul that he who brought it about might die and rot, even if 'tis transportation to say it
Charley, no more of that. What do you mean to do about this you have seen
Keep it close as night, if you promise not to think of it again
You need not fear. The moment has passed. I promise
Yes, it is too bad to talk of
Can my old room be got ready for me tonight, grandfather? I shall want to occupy it again
Mrs. Wildeve and the nurse-girl
The nurse is carrying the baby
No, 'tis Mrs. Wildeve carrying that
and the nurse walks behind carrying nothing
Well done, Charley
But I hope it is not my wood that he's burning... Ah, it was this time last year that I met with that man Venn, bringing home Thomasin Yeobright -- to be sure it was! Well, who would have thought that girl's troubles would have ended so well? What a snipe you were in that matter, Eustacia! Has your husband written to you yet
No
I made it o' purpose for you, ma'am
Thank you
But I wish you to put it out now
It will soon burn down
Is it not a pity to knock it out
I don't know
I did not light it
It was lit without my knowledge. Don't, don't come over to me
Why have you been living here all these days without telling me? You have left your home. I fear I am something to blame for this
I did not let in his mother; that's how it is
You do not deserve what you have got, Eustacia; you are in great misery; I see it in your eyes, your mouth, and all over you. My poor, poor girl
You are beyond everything unhappy
No, no; not exactly
It has been pushed too far -- it is killing you: I do think it
I -- I
Are you not ashamed of me, who used never to be a crying animal
Why didn't you go away? I wish you had not seen quite all that; it reveals too much by half
You might have wished it, because it makes me as sad as you
As for revealing -- the word is impossible between us two
I did not send for you -- don't forget it, Damon; I am in pain, but I did not send for you! As a wife, at least, I've been straight
Never mind -- I came. O, Eustacia, forgive me for the harm I have done you in these two past years! I see more and more that I have been your ruin
Not you. This place I live in
Ah, your generosity may naturally make you say that. But I am the culprit. I should either have done more or nothing at all
In what way
I ought never to have hunted you out, or, having done it, I ought to have persisted in retaining you. But of course I have no right to talk of that now. I will only ask this: can I do anything for you? Is there anything on the face of the earth that a man can do to make you happier than you are at present? If there is, I will do it. You may command me, Eustacia, to the limit of my influence; and don't forget that I am richer now. Surely something can be done to save you from this! Such a rare plant in such a wild place it grieves me to see. Do you want anything bought? Do you want to go anywhere? Do you want to escape the place altogether? Only say it, and I'll do anything to put an end to those tears, which but for me would never have been at all
We are each married to another person
and assistance from you would have an evil sound -- after -- after
Well, there's no preventing slanderers from having their fill at any time; but you need not be afraid. Whatever I may feel I promise you on my word of honour never to speak to you about -- or act upon -- until you say I may. I know my duty to Thomasin quite as well as I know my duty to you as a woman unfairly treated. What shall I assist you in
In getting away from here
Where do you wish to go to
I have a place in my mind. If you could help me as far as Budmouth I can do all the rest. Steamers sail from there across the Channel, and so I can get to Paris, where I want to be. Yes
help me to get to Budmouth harbour without my grandfather's or my husband's knowledge, and I can do all the rest
Will it be safe to leave you there alone
Yes, yes. I know Budmouth well
Shall I go with you? I am rich now
Say yes, sweet
Well, let me know when you wish to go. We shall be at our present house till December; after that we remove to Casterbridge. Command me in anything till that time
I will think of this
Whether I can honestly make use of you as a friend, or must close with you as a lover -- that is what I must ask myself. If I wish to go and decide to accept your company I will signal to you some evening at eight o'clock punctually, and this will mean that you are to be ready with a horse and trap at twelve o'clock the same night to drive me to Budmouth harbour in time for the morning boat
I will look out every night at eight, and no signal shall escape me
Now please go away. If I decide on this escape I can only meet you once more unless -- I cannot go without you. Go -- I cannot bear it longer. Go -- go
Surely
she might have brought herself to communicate with me before now, and confess honestly what Wildeve was to her
Tamsin, have you heard that Eustacia is not with me now
No
And not that I have left Alderworth
No. I never hear tidings from Alderworth unless you bring them. What is the matter
All this, and I not knowing it
Terrible! What could have made her -- O, Eustacia! And when you found it out you went in hot haste to her? Were you too cruel?-- or is she really so wicked as she seems
Can a man be too cruel to his mother's enemy
I can fancy so
Very well, then -- I'll admit that he can. But now what is to be done
Make it up again -- if a quarrel so deadly can ever be made up. I almost wish you had not told me. But do try to be reconciled. There are ways, after all, if you both wish to
I don't know that we do both wish to make it up
If she had wished it, would she not have sent to me by this time
You seem to wish to, and yet you have not sent to her
True; but I have been tossed to and fro in doubt if I ought, after such strong provocation. To see me now, Thomasin, gives you no idea of what I have been; of what depths I have descended to in these few last days. O, it was a bitter shame to shut out my mother like that! Can I ever forget it, or even agree to see her again
She might not have known that anything serious would come of it, and perhaps she did not mean to keep aunt out altogether
She says herself that she did not. But the fact remains that keep her out she did
Believe her sorry, and send for her
How if she will not come
It will prove her guilty, by showing that it is her habit to nourish enmity. But I do not think that for a moment
I will do this. I will wait for a day or two longer -- not longer than two days certainly; and if she does not send to me in that time I will indeed send to her. I thought to have seen Wildeve here tonight. Is he from home
No
He is merely gone out for a walk
Why didn't he take you with him? The evening is fine. You want fresh air as well as he
Oh, I don't care for going anywhere; besides, there is baby
Yes, yes. Well, I have been thinking whether I should not consult your husband about this as well as you
I fancy I would not
It can do no good
You will write to her in a day or two
I do so hope the wretched separation may come to an end
I will
I don't rejoice in my present state at all
There
that's a good thing done. If she does not come before tomorrow night I will send it to her
Damon, where have you been? I was getting quite frightened, and thought you had fallen into the river. I dislike being in the house by myself
Frightened
Why, I thought nothing could frighten you. It is that you are getting proud, I am sure, and don't like living here since we have risen above our business. Well, it is a tedious matter, this getting a new house; but I couldn't have set about it sooner, unless our ten thousand pounds had been a hundred thousand, when we could have afforded to despise caution
No -- I don't mind waiting -- I would rather stay here twelve months longer than run any risk with baby. But I don't like your vanishing so in the evenings. There's something on your mind -- I know there is, Damon. You go about so gloomily, and look at the heath as if it were somebody's gaol instead of a nice wild place to walk in
What, do you like Egdon Heath
I like what I was born near to; I admire its grim old face
Pooh, my dear. You don't know what you like
I am sure I do. There's only one thing unpleasant about Egdon
What's that
You never take me with you when you walk there. Why do you wander so much in it yourself if you so dislike it
I don't think you often see me there. Give an instance
I will
When you went out this evening I thought that as baby was asleep I would see where you were going to so mysteriously without telling me. So I ran out and followed behind you. You stopped at the place where the road forks, looked round at the bonfires, and then said, 'Damn it, I'll go!' And you went quickly up the left-hand road. Then I stood and watched you
Well, what wonderful discovery did you make
There -- now you are angry, and we won't talk of this any more
Nonsense
that's how you always back out. We will go on with it now we have begun. What did you next see? I particularly want to know
Don't be like that, Damon
I didn't see anything. You vanished out of sight, and then I looked round at the bonfires and came in
Perhaps this is not the only time you have dogged my steps. Are you trying to find out something bad about me
Not at all! I have never done such a thing before, and I shouldn't have done it now if words had not sometimes been dropped about you
What DO you mean
They say -- they say you used to go to Alderworth in the evenings, and it puts into my mind what I have heard about
Now
just out with it, madam! I demand to know what remarks you have heard
Well, I heard that you used to be very fond of Eustacia -- nothing more than that, though dropped in a bit-by-bit way. You ought not to be angry
Well
there is nothing new in that, and of course I don't mean to be rough towards you, so you need not cry. Now, don't let us speak of the subject any more
I was a-forced to go to Lower Mistover tonight
and Mr. Yeobright asked me to leave this here on my way; but, faith, I put it in the lining of my hat, and thought no more about it till I got back and was hasping my gate before going to bed. So I have run back with it at once
She is thinking of that husband of hers
Ah, the silly goose! she had no business to marry him. I wonder if that letter is really his
Eustacia
Eustacia
there is a letter on the mantelpiece for you
Can I go, can I go
He's not GREAT enough for me to give myself to -- he does not suffice for my desire!... If he had been a Saul or a Buonaparte -- ah! But to break my marriage vow for him -- it is too poor a luxury!... And I have no money to go alone! And if I could, what comfort to me? I must drag on next year, as I have dragged on this year, and the year after that as before. How I have tried and tried to be a splendid woman, and how destiny has been against me!... I do not deserve my lot
O, the cruelty of putting me into this ill-conceived world! I was capable of much; but I have been injured and blighted and crushed by things beyond my control! O, how hard it is of Heaven to devise such tortures for me, who have done no harm to Heaven at all
Mother, I do feel so bad
Did you notice, my dear, what Mrs. Eustacia wore this afternoon besides the dark dress
A red ribbon round her neck
Anything else
No -- except sandal-shoes
A red ribbon and sandal-shoes
Who's there
O Clym, come down and let me in
Surely it is Eustacia
Thomasin
It is Thomasin, and on such a night as this! O, where is Eustacia
Eustacia? I don't know, Clym; but I can think
Let me come in and rest -- I will explain this. There is a great trouble brewing -- my husband and Eustacia
What, what
I think my husband is going to leave me or do something dreadful -- I don't know what -- Clym, will you go and see? I have nobody to help me but you! Eustacia has not yet come home
No
Then they are going to run off together! He came indoors tonight about eight o'clock and said in an off-hand way, 'Tamsie, I have just found that I must go a journey.' 'When?' I said. 'Tonight,' he said. 'Where?' I asked him. 'I cannot tell you at present,' he said; 'I shall be back again tomorrow.' He then went and busied himself in looking up his things, and took no notice of me at all. I expected to see him start, but he did not, and then it came to be ten o'clock, when he said, 'You had better go to bed.' I didn't know what to do, and I went to bed. I believe he thought I fell asleep, for half an hour after that he came up and unlocked the oak chest we keep money in when we have much in the house and took out a roll of something which I believe was bank-notes, though I was not aware that he had 'em there. These he must have got from the bank when he went there the other day. What does he want bank-notes for, if he is only going off for a day? When he had gone down I thought of Eustacia, and how he had met her the night before -- I know he did meet her, Clym, for I followed him part of the way; but I did not like to tell you when you called, and so make you think ill of him, as I did not think it was so serious. Then I could not stay in bed; I got up and dressed myself, and when I heard him out in the stable I thought I would come and tell you. So I came downstairs without any noise and slipped out
Then he was not absolutely gone when you left
No. Will you, dear Cousin Clym, go and try to persuade him not to go? He takes no notice of what I say, and puts me off with the story of his going on a journey, and will be home tomorrow, and all that; but I don't believe it. I think you could influence him
I'll go
O, Eustacia
I brought baby, for I was afraid what might happen to her. I suppose it will be her death, but I couldn't leave her with Rachel
Dry yourself
I'll go and get some more wood
No, no -- don't stay for that. I'll make up the fire. Will you go at once -- please will you
Captain Vye
Is my granddaughter here
No
Then where is she?". "I don't know
But you ought to know -- you are her husband
Only in name apparently
I believe she means to elope tonight with Wildeve. I am just going to look to it
Well, she has left my house; she left about half an hour ago. Who's sitting there
My cousin Thomasin
I only hope it is no worse than an elopement
Worse? What's worse than the worst a wife can do
Well, I have been told a strange tale. Before starting in search of her I called up Charley, my stable lad. I missed my pistols the other day
Pistols
He said at the time that he took them down to clean. He has now owned that he took them because he saw Eustacia looking curiously at them; and she afterwards owned to him that she was thinking of taking her life, but bound him to secrecy, and promised never to think of such a thing again. I hardly suppose she will ever have bravado enough to use one of them; but it shows what has been lurking in her mind; and people who think of that sort of thing once think of it again
Where are the pistols
Safely locked up. O no, she won't touch them again. But there are more ways of letting out life than through a bullet-hole. What did you quarrel about so bitterly with her to drive her to all this? You must have treated her badly indeed. Well, I was always against the marriage, and I was right
Are you going with me
If so I can tell you what we quarrelled about as we walk along
Where to
To Wildeve's -- that was her destination, depend upon it
He said he was only going on a sudden short journey; but if so why did he want so much money? O, Clym, what do you think will happen? I am afraid that you, my poor baby, will soon have no father left to you
I am off now
I would fain go with 'ee
But I begin to be afraid that my legs will hardly carry me there such a night as this. I am not so young as I was. If they are interrupted in their flight she will be sure to come back to me, and I ought to be at the house to receive her. But be it as 'twill I can't walk to the Quiet Woman, and that's an end on't. I'll go straight home
It will perhaps be best
Thomasin, dry yourself, and be as comfortable as you can
I have come here well enough
and why shouldn't I go back again? It is a mistake for me to be away
Why, it is Diggory Venn's van, surely
I thought you went down the slope
How do you come back here again
Diggory
Who are you
And why were you crying so just now
O, Diggory! don't you know me
But of course you don't, wrapped up like this. What do you mean? I have not been crying here, and I have not been here before
Mrs. Wildeve
What a time for us to meet! And the baby too! What dreadful thing can have brought you out on such a night as this
What is it
I have lost my way coming from Blooms-End, and I am in a great hurry to get home. Please show me as quickly as you can! It is so silly of me not to know Egdon better, and I cannot think how I came to lose the path. Show me quickly, Diggory, please
Yes, of course. I will go with 'ee. But you came to me before this, Mrs. Wildeve
I only came this minute
That's strange. I was lying down here asleep about five minutes ago, with the door shut to keep out the weather, when the brushing of a woman's clothes over the heath-bushes just outside woke me up (for I don't sleep heavy), and at the same time I heard a sobbing or crying from the same woman. I opened my door and held out my lantern, and just as far as the light would reach I saw a woman: she turned her head when the light sheened on her, and then hurried on downhill. I hung up the lantern, and was curious enough to pull on my things and dog her a few steps, but I could see nothing of her any more. That was where I had been when you came up; and when I saw you I thought you were the same one
Perhaps it was one of the heath-folk going home
No, it couldn't be. 'Tis too late. The noise of her gown over thehe't h was of a whistling sort that nothing but silk will make
It wasn't I, then. My dress is not silk, you see... Are we anywhere in a line between Mistover and the inn
Well, yes; not far out
Ah, I wonder if it was she! Diggory, I must go at once
I'll take the baby, ma'am
You must be tired out by the weight
Don't squeeze her, Diggory
or hurt her little arm; and keep the cloak close over her like this, so that the rain may not drop in her face
I will
As if I could hurt anything belonging to you
I only meant accidentally
The baby is dry enough, but you are pretty wet
You are sure the rain does not fall upon baby
Quite sure. May I ask how old he is, ma'am
He
Anybody can see better than that in a moment. She is nearly two months old. How far is it now to the inn
A little over a quarter of a mile
Will you walk a little faster
I was afraid you could not keep up
I am very anxious to get there. Ah, there is a light from the window
'Tis not from the window. That's a gig-lamp, to the best of my belief
O
I wish I had been there sooner -- give me the baby, Diggory -- you can go back now
I must go all the way
There is a quag between us and that light, and you will walk into it up to your neck unless I take you round
But the light is at the inn, and there is no quag in front of that
No, the light is below the inn some two or three hundred yards
Never mind
Go towards the light, and not towards the inn
Yes
I wish you would tell me what this great trouble is. I think you have proved that I can be trusted
There are some things that cannot be -- cannot be told to
Poor thing! 'tis like her ill-luck
Eustacia
Good God! can it be she
Why should it be she
Ah!-- that's you, you traitor, is it
Why should it be she? Because last week she would have put an end to her life if she had been able. She ought to have been watched! Take one of the lamps and come with me
O, my darling
Take the baby, please, Mrs. Wildeve
Run home with her, call the stable-lad, and make him send down to me any men who may be living near. Somebody has fallen into the weir
Now we must search the hole again
A woman is in there somewhere. Get a pole
Pull it forward
Clym's alive
Well, how is it going on now
Mr. Yeobright is better; but Mrs. Yeobright and Mr. Wildeve are dead and cold. The doctor says they were quite gone before they were out of the water
Ah! I thought as much when I hauled 'em up. And Mrs. Wildeve
She is as well as can be expected. The doctor had her put between blankets, for she was almost as wet as they that had been in the river, poor young thing. You don't seem very dry, reddleman
Oh, 'tis not much. I have changed my things. This is only a little dampness I've got coming through the rain again
Stand by the fire. Mis'ess says you be to have whatever you want, and she was sorry when she was told that you'd gone away
What be they
Poor master's bank-notes
They were found in his pocket when they undressed him
Then he was not coming back again for some time
That we shall never know
Will you tell him, please
I shall see her once more
I dare say you may see her
But hadn't you better run and tell Captain Vye
Yes, yes. Only I do hope I shall see her just once again
You shall
You shall see her. There will be time enough to tell the captain when it gets daylight. You would like to see her too -- would you not, Diggory? She looks very beautiful now
Now come here
She is the second woman I have killed this year. I was a great cause of my mother's death, and I am the chief cause of hers
How
I spoke cruel words to her, and she left my house. I did not invite her back till it was too late. It is I who ought to have drowned myself. It would have been a charity to the living had the river overwhelmed me and borne her up. But I cannot die. Those who ought to have lived lie dead; and here am I alive
But you can't charge yourself with crimes in that way
You may as well say that the parents be the cause of a murder by the child, for without the parents the child would never have been begot
Yes, Venn, that is very true; but you don't know all the circumstances. If it had pleased God to put an end to me it would have been a good thing for all. But I am getting used to the horror of my existence. They say that a time comes when men laugh at misery through long acquaintance with it. Surely that time will soon come to me
Your aim has always been good
Why should you say such desperate things
No, they are not desperate. They are only hopeless; and my great regret is that for what I have done no man or law can punish me!" 

BOOK SIXTH


AFTERCOURSES
O, how you frightened me
I thought you were the ghost of yourself
I was so alarmed
I couldn't believe that he had got white of his own accord! It seemed supernatural
I gave up dealing in reddle last Christmas
It was a profitable trade, and I found that by that time I had made enough to take the dairy of fifty cows that my father had in his lifetime. I always thought of getting to that place again if I changed at all, and now I am there
How did you manage to become white, Diggory
I turned so by degrees, ma'am
You look much better than ever you did before
What shall we have to frighten Thomasin's baby with, now you have become a human being again
Sit down, Diggory
and stay to tea
Of course you must sit down here. And where does your fifty-cow dairy lie, Mr. Venn
At Stickleford -- about two miles to the right of Alderworth, ma'am, where the meads begin. I have thought that if Mr. Yeobright would like to pay me a visit sometimes he shouldn't stay away for want of asking. I'll not bide to tea this afternoon, thank'ee, for I've got something on hand that must be settled. 'Tis Maypole-day tomorrow, and the Shadwater folk have clubbed with a few of your neighbours here to have a pole just outside your palings in the heath, as it is a nice green place
I have been talking to Fairway about it
and I said to him that before we put up the pole it would be as well to ask Mrs. Wildeve
I can say nothing against it
Our property does not reach an inch further than the white palings
But you might not like to see a lot of folk going crazy round a stick, under your very nose
I shall have no objection at all
How pretty you look today, Thomasin
Is it because of the Maypole
Not altogether
You went away just when it began, Clym
Yes. I felt I could not join in. You went out with them, of course
No, I did not
You appeared to be dressed on purpose
Yes, but I could not go out alone; so many people were there. One is there now
Who is it
Mr. Venn
You might have asked him to come in, I think, Tamsie. He has been very kind to you first and last
I will now
It is Mr. Venn, I think
Yes
Will you come in
I am afraid that I
I have seen you dancing this evening, and you had the very best of the girls for your partners. Is it that you won't come in because you wish to stand here, and think over the past hours of enjoyment
Well, that's partly it
But the main reason why I am biding here like this is that I want to wait till the moon rises
To see how pretty the Maypole looks in the moonlight
No. To look for a glove that was dropped by one of the maidens
Were you dancing with her, Diggory
No
And you will not come in, then
Not tonight, thank you, ma'am
Shall I lend you a lantern to look for the young person's glove, Mr. Venn
O no; it is not necessary, Mrs. Wildeve, thank you. The moon will rise in a few minutes
Is he coming in
He would rather not tonight
How very ridiculous
To think that a man should be so silly as to go mooning about like that for a girl's glove! A respectable dairyman, too, and a man of money as he is now. What a pity
I am thoroughly perplexed
I cannot for my life think who it is that Diggory Venn is so much in love with. None of the girls at the Maypole were good enough for him, and yet she must have been there
Rachel
Have you seen one of my last new gloves about the house, Rachel
It is the fellow to this one
Why don't you answer
I think it is lost, ma'am
Lost? Who lost it? I have never worn them but once
Please, ma'am, on the day of the Maypole I had none to wear, and I seed yours on the table, and I thought I would borrow 'em. I did not mean to hurt 'em at all, but one of them got lost. Somebody gave me some money to buy another pair for you, but I have not been able to go anywhere to get 'em
Who's somebody
Mr. Venn
Did he know it was my glove
Yes. I told him
Diggory, give me my glove
Thank you. It was very good of you to take care of it
It is very good of you to say so
O no. I was quite glad to find you had it. Everybody gets so indifferent that I was surprised to know you thought of me
If you had remembered what I was once you wouldn't have been surprised
Ah, no
But men of your character are mostly so independent
What is my character
I don't exactly know
except it is to cover up your feelings under a practical manner, and only to show them when you are alone
Ah, how do you know that
Because
because I do
You mustn't judge by folks in general
Still I don't know much what feelings are now-a-days. I have got so mixed up with business of one sort and t'other that my soft sentiments are gone off in vapour like. Yes, I am given up body and soul to the making of money. Money is all my dream
O Diggory, how wicked
Yes, 'tis rather a rum course
You, who used to be so nice
Well, that's an argument I rather like, because what a man has once been he may be again
Except that it is rather harder now
Why
Because you be richer than you were at that time
O no -- not much. I have made it nearly all over to the baby, as it was my duty to do, except just enough to live on
I am rather glad of that
for it makes it easier for us to be friendly
I have long been wanting, Thomasin
to say something about a matter that concerns both our futures
And you are going to say it now
Do stop a minute, Clym, and let me speak first, for oddly enough, I have been wanting to say something to you
By all means say on, Tamsie
I suppose nobody can overhear us
Well, first you will promise me this -- that you won't be angry and call me anything harsh if you disagree with what I propose
What I want is your advice, for you are my relation -- I mean, a sort of guardian to me -- aren't you, Clym
Well, yes, I suppose I am; a sort of guardian. In fact, I am, of course
I am thinking of marrying
But I shall not marry unless you assure me that you approve of such a step. Why don't you speak
I was taken rather by surprise. But, nevertheless, I am very glad to hear such news. I shall approve, of course, dear Tamsie. Who can it be? I am quite at a loss to guess. No I am not --'tis the old doctor!-- not that I mean to call him old, for he is not very old after all. Ah -- I noticed when he attended you last time
No, no
'Tis Mr. Venn
There, now, you don't like him, and I wish I hadn't mentioned him
And I shouldn't have done it, either, only he keeps on bothering me so till I don't know what to do
I like Venn well enough
He is a very honest and at the same time astute man. He is clever too, as is proved by his having got you to favour him. But really, Thomasin, he is not quite
Gentleman enough for me? That is just what I feel. I am sorry now that I asked you, and I won't think any more of him. At the same time I must marry him if I marry anybody -- that I WILL say
I don't see that
You might marry a professional man, or somebody of that sort, by going into the town to live and forming acquaintances there
I am not fit for town life -- so very rural and silly as I always have been. Do not you yourself notice my countrified ways
Well, when I came home from Paris I did, a little; but I don't now
That's because you have got countrified too. O, I couldn't live in a street for the world! Egdon is a ridiculous old place; but I have got used to it, and I couldn't be happy anywhere else at all
Neither could I
Then how could you say that I should marry some town man? I am sure, say what you will, that I must marry Diggory, if I marry at all. He has been kinder to me than anybody else, and has helped me in many ways that I don't know of
Yes, he has
Well, I wish with all my heart that I could say, marry him. But I cannot forget what my mother thought on that matter, and it goes rather against me not to respect her opinion. There is too much reason why we should do the little we can to respect it now
Very well, then
I will say no more
But you are not bound to obey my wishes. I merely say what I think
O no -- I don't want to be rebellious in that way
I had no business to think of him -- I ought to have thought of my family. What dreadfully bad impulses there are in me
He is much more respectable now than he was then
Who? O yes -- Diggory Venn
Aunt only objected because he was a reddleman
Well, Thomasin, perhaps I don't know all the particulars of my mother's wish. So you had better use your own discretion
You will always feel that I slighted your mother's memory
No, I will not. I shall think you are convinced that, had she seen Diggory in his present position, she would have considered him a fitting husband for you. Now, that's my real feeling. Don't consult me any more, but do as you like, Thomasin. I shall be content
I am glad to see that Mrs. Wildeve and Venn have made it up again, seemingly
Have they
Yes; and he do contrive to stumble upon her whenever she walks out on fine days with the chiel. But, Mr. Yeobright, I can't help feeling that your cousin ought to have married you. 'Tis a pity to make two chimley-corners where there need be only one. You could get her away from him now, 'tis my belief, if you were only to set about it
How can I have the conscience to marry after having driven two women to their deaths? Don't think such a thing, Humphrey. After my experience I should consider it too much of a burlesque to go to church and take a wife. In the words of Job, 'I have made a covenant with mine eyes; why then should I think upon a maid
No, Mr. Clym, don't fancy that about driving two women to their deaths. You shouldn't say it
Well, we'll leave that out
But anyhow God has set a mark upon me which wouldn't look well in a lovemaking scene. I have two ideas in my head, and no others. I am going to keep a night-school; and I am going to turn preacher. What have you got to say to that, Humphrey
I'll come and hear 'ee with all my heart
Thanks. 'Tis all I wish
What do you think I have to tell you, Clym
I can guess
Yes, you guess right. It is going to be after all. He thinks I may as well make up my mind, and I have got to think so too. It is to be on the twenty-fifth of next month, if you don't object
Do what you think right, dear. I am only too glad that you see your way clear to happiness again. My sex owes you every amends for the treatment you received in days gone by
Waxing a bed-tick, souls
Yes, Sam
Shall I stretch this corner a shade tighter, Timothy
'Tis going to be a good bed, by the look o't
Who may it be for
'Tis a present for the new folks that's going to set up housekeeping
Ah, to be sure; and a valuable one, 'a b'lieve
Beds be dear to fokes that don't keep geese, bain't they, Mister Fairway
Yes
Not that this couple be in want of one, but 'twas well to show 'em a bit of friendliness at this great racketing vagary of their lives. I set up both my own daughters in one when they was married, and there have been feathers enough for another in the house the last twelve months. Now then, neighbours, I think we have laid on enough wax. Grandfer Cantle, you turn the tick the right way outwards, and then I'll begin to shake in the feathers
I never saw such a clumsy chap as you, Christian
You might have been the son of a man that's never been outside Blooms-End in his life for all the wit you have. Really all the soldiering and smartness in the world in the father seems to count for nothing in forming the nater of the son. As far as that chiel Christian is concerned I might as well have stayed at home and seed nothing, like all the rest of ye here. Though, as far as myself is concerned, a dashing spirit has counted for sommat, to be sure
Don't ye let me down so, father; I feel no bigger than a ninepin after it. I've made but a bruckle hit, I'm afeard
Come, come. Never pitch yerself in such a low key as that, Christian; you should try more
Yes, you should try more
In common conscience every man ought either to marry or go for a soldier. 'Tis a scandal to the nation to do neither one nor t'other. I did both, thank God! Neither to raise men nor to lay 'em low -- that shows a poor do-nothing spirit indeed
I never had the nerve to stand fire
But as to marrying, I own I've asked here and there, though without much fruit from it. Yes, there's some house or other that might have had a man for a master -- such as he is -- that's now ruled by a woman alone. Still it might have been awkward if I had found her; for, d'ye see, neighbours, there'd have been nobody left at home to keep down father's spirits to the decent pitch that becomes a old man
And you've your work cut out to do that, my son
I wish that the dread of infirmities was not so strong in me!-- I'd start the very first thing tomorrow to see the world over again! But seventy-one, though nothing at home, is a high figure for a rover... Ay, seventy-one, last Candlemasday. Gad, I'd sooner have it in guineas than in years
Don't you be mournful, Grandfer
Empt some more feathers into the bed-tick, and keep up yer heart. Though rather lean in the stalks you be a green-leaved old man still. There's time enough left to ye yet to fill whole chronicles
Begad, I'll go to 'em, Timothy -- to the married pair
'Twould please 'em well at such a time! Really, now I come to think of it, I haven't turned my tongue in my head to the shape of a real good song since Old Midsummer night, when we had the 'Barley Mow' at the Woman; and 'tis a pity to neglect your strong point where there's few that have the compass for such things
So 'tis, so 'tis
Now gie the bed a shake down. We've put in seventy pound of best feathers, and I think that's as many as the tick will fairly hold. A bit and a drap wouldn't be amiss now, I reckon. Christian, maul down the victuals from corner-cupboard if canst reach, man, and I'll draw a drap o' sommat to wet it with
Upon my soul I shall be chokt
I've swallered several; and one had a tolerable quill
Hullo -- what's that -- wheels I hear coming
Why, 'tis they back again: I didn't expect 'em yet this half-hour. To be sure, how quick marrying can be done when you are in the mind for't
O yes, it can soon be DONE
Hurrah
I wish I could be there without dashing your spirits
But I might be too much like the skull at the banquet
No, no
Well, dear, apart from that, if you would excuse me, I should be glad. I know it seems unkind; but, dear Thomasin, I fear I should not be happy in the company -- there, that's the truth of it. I shall always be coming to see you at your new home, you know, so that my absence now will not matter
Then I give in. Do whatever will be most comfortable to yourself
Charley, I have not seen you for a length of time
Do you often walk this way
No
I don't often come outside the bank
You were not at the Maypole
No
I don't care for that sort of thing now
You rather liked Miss Eustacia, didn't you
Yes, very much. Ah, I wish
Yes
I wish, Mr. Yeobright, you could give me something to keep that once belonged to her -- if you don't mind
I shall be very happy to. It will give me very great pleasure, Charley. Let me think what I have of hers that you would like. But come with me to the house, and I'll see
Come round this way
My entrance is at the back for the present
O, Mr. Clym, how good you are to me
I will go a little way with you
Charley, what are they doing
My sight is weaker again tonight, and the glass of this window is not good
Mr. Venn is asking Christian Cantle to sing
and Christian is moving about in his chair as if he were much frightened at the question, and his father has struck up a stave instead of him
Yes, I can hear the old man's voice
So there's to be no dancing, I suppose. And is Thomasin in the room? I see something moving in front of the candles that resembles her shape, I think
Yes. She do seem happy. She is red in the face, and laughing at something Fairway has said to her. O my
What noise was that
Mr. Venn is so tall that he knocked his head against the beam in gieing a skip as he passed under. Mrs. Venn has run up quite frightened and now she's put her hand to his head to feel if there's a lump. And now they be all laughing again as if nothing had happened
Do any of them seem to care about my not being there
No, not a bit in the world. Now they are all holding up their glasses and drinking somebody's health
I wonder if it is mine
No, 'tis Mr. and Mrs. Venn's, because he is making a hearty sort of speech. There -- now Mrs. Venn has got up, and is going away to put on her things, I think
Well, they haven't concerned themselves about me, and it is quite right they should not. It is all as it should be, and Thomasin at least is happy. We will not stay any longer now, as they will soon be coming out to go home
Now we leave you in absolute possession of your own house again
It will be rather lonely for you, Clym, after the hubbub we have been making
O, that's no inconvenience
It was all my fault
O, my mother, my mother! would to God that I could live my life again, and endure for you what you endured for me
And the king rose up to meet her, and bowed himself unto her, and sat down on his throne, and caused a seat to be set for the king's mother; and she sat on his right hand. Then she said, I desire one small petition of thee; I pray thee say me not nay. And the king said unto her, Ask, on, my mother: for I will not say thee nay
</text>
