<text>
Edith
Edith
I suffered too much myself; not that I was not extremely happy with the poor dear General, but still disparity of age is a drawback; one that I was resolved Edith should not have to encounter. Of course, without any maternal partiality, I foresaw that the dear child was likely to marry early; indeed, I had often said that I was sure she would be married before she was nineteen. I had quite a prophetic feeling when Captain Lennox
I have spared no expense in her trousseau
She has all the beautiful Indian shawls and scarfs the General gave to me, but which I shall never wear again
She is a lucky girl
Helen had set her heart upon an Indian shawl, but really when I found what an extravagant price was asked, I was obliged to refuse her. She will be quite envious when she hears of Edith having Indian shawls. What kind are they? Delhi? with the lovely little borders
Edith! Edith
Edith is asleep, Aunt Shaw. Is it anything I can do
Poor child
Hush, Tiny! you naughty little girl! you will waken your mistress. It was only to ask Edith if she would tell Newton to bring down her shawls: perhaps you would go, Margaret dear
Ah Newton
I think we shall all be sorry to leave this dear old room
Indeed, miss, I shan't for one. My eyes are not so good as they were, and the light here is so bad that I can't see to mend laces except just at the window, where there's always a shocking draught -- enough to give one one's death of cold
Well, I suppose you are all in the depths of business -- ladies' business, I mean. Very different to my business, which is the real true law business. Playing with shawls is very different work to drawing up settlements. 'Ah, I knew how you would be amused to find us all so occupied in admiring finery. But really Indian shawls are very perfect things of their kind
I have no doubt they are. Their prices are very perfect, too. Nothing wanting
This is your last dinner-party, is it not? There are no more before Thursday
No. I think after this evening we shall feel at rest, which I am sure I have not done for many weeks; at least, that kind of rest when the hands have nothing more to do, and all the arrangements are complete for an event which must occupy one's head and heart. I shall be glad to have time to think, and I am sure Edith will
I am not so sure about her; but I can fancy that you will. whenever I have seen you lately, you have been carried away by a whirlwind of some other person's making
Yes
I wonder if a marriage must always be preceded by what you call a whirlwind, or whether in some cases there might not rather be a calm and peaceful time just before it
Cinderella's godmother ordering the trousseau, the wedding-breakfast, writing the notes of invitation, for instance
But are all these quite necessary troubles
Oh, of course
There are forms and ceremonies to be gone through, not so much to satisfy oneself, as to stop the world's mouth, without which stoppage there would be very little satisfaction in life. But how would you have a wedding arranged
Oh, I have never thought much about it; only I should like it to be a very fine summer morning; and I should like to walk to church through the shade of trees; and not to have so many bridesmaids, and to have no wedding-breakfast. I dare say I am resolving against the very things that have given me the most trouble just now
No, I don't think you are. The idea of stately simplicity accords well with your character
It is natural for me to think of Helstone church, and the walk to it, rather than of driving up to a London church in the middle of a paved street
Tell me about Helstone. You have never described it to me. I should like to have some idea of the place you will be living in, when ninety-six Harley Street will be looking dingy and dirty, and dull, and shut up. Is Helstone a village, or a town, in the first place
Oh, only a hamlet; I don't think I could call it a village at all. There is the church and a few houses near it on the green -- cottages, rather -- with roses growing all over them
And flowering all the year round, especially at Christmas -- make your picture complete
No
I am not making a picture. I am trying to describe Helstone as it really is. You should not have said that
I am penitent
Only it really sounded like a village in a tale rather than in real life
And so it is
All the other places in England that I have seen seem so hard and prosaic-looking, after the New Forest. Helstone is like a village in a poem -- in one of Tennyson's poems. But I won't try and describe it any more. You would only laugh at me if I told you what I think of it -- what it really is
Indeed, I would not. But I see you are going to be very resolved. Well, then, tell me that which I should like still better to know what the parsonage is like
Oh, I can't describe my home. It is home, and I can't put its charm into words
How
I did not know I was
Why, because I made an unlucky remark, you will neither tell me what Helstone is like, nor will you say anything about your home, though I have told you how much I want to hear about both, the latter especially
But indeed I cannot tell you about my own home. I don't quite think it is a thing to be talked about, unless you knew it
Well, then
tell me what you do there. Here you read, or have lessons, or otherwise improve your mind, till the middle of the day; take a walk before lunch, go a drive with your aunt after, and have some kind of engagement in the evening. There, now fill up your day at Helstone. Shall you ride, drive, or walk
Walk, decidedly. We have no horse, not even for papa. He walks to the very extremity of his parish. The walks are so beautiful, it would be a shame to drive -- almost a shame to ride
Shall you garden much? That, I believe, is a proper employment for young ladies in the country
I don't know. I am afraid I shan't like such hard work
Archery parties -- pic-nics -- race-balls -- hunt-balls
Oh no
Papa's living is very small; and even if we were near such things, I doubt if I should go to them
I see, you won't tell me anything. You will only tell me that you are not going to do this and that. Before the vacation ends, I think I shall pay you a call, and see what you really do employ yourself in
I hope you will. Then you will see for yourself how beautiful Helstone is. Now I must go. Edith is sitting down to play, and I just know enough of music to turn over the leaves for her; and besides, Aunt Shaw won't like us to talk
By the soft green light in the woody glade, On the banks of moss where thy childhood played; By the household tree, thro' which thine eye First looked in love to the summer sky
Married for love, what can dearest Maria have to wish for in this world
a silver-grey glace silk, a white chip bonnet, oh! dozens of things for the wedding, and hundreds of things for the house
Poor Frederick
no
an't please you, sir
It is undoubtedly one of the most out-of-the-way places in England
I can't help regretting constantly that papa has really no one to associate with here; he is so thrown away; seeing no one but farmers and labourers from week's end to week's end. If we only lived at the other side of the parish, it would be something; there we should be almost within walking distance of the Stansfields; certainly the Gormans would be within a walk
Gormans
Are those the Gormans who made their fortunes in trade at Southampton? Oh! I'm glad we don't visit them. I don't like shoppy people. I think we are far better off, knowing only cottagers and labourers, and people without pretence
You must not be so fastidious, Margaret, dear
No! I call mine a very comprehensive taste; I like all people whose occupations have to do with land; I like soldiers and sailors, and the three learned professions, as they call them. I'm sure you don't want me to admire butchers and bakers, and candlestick-makers, do you, mamma
But the Gormans were neither butchers nor bakers, but very respectable coach-builders
Very well. Coach-building is a trade all the same, and I think a much more useless one than that of butchers or bakers. Oh! how tired I used to be of the drives every day in Aunt Shaw's carriage, and how I longed to walk
Poor Frederick
Mr. Henry Lennox
Mr. Henry Lennox
parler du soleil et l'on en voit les rayons;' and the brightness of the sun came over Margaret's face as she put down her board, and went forward to shake hands with him. 'Tell mamma, Sarah
Mamma and I want to ask you so many questions about Edith; I am so much obliged to you for coming
Did not I say that I should
Oh
our young couple were playing such foolish pranks, running all sorts of risks, climbing this mountain, sailing on that lake, that I really thought they needed a Mentor to take care of them. And indeed they did; they were quite beyond my uncle's management, and kept the old gentleman in a panic for sixteen hours out of the twenty-four. Indeed, when I once saw how unfit they were to be trusted alone, I thought it my duty not to leave them till I had seen them safely embarked at Plymouth
Have you been at Plymouth? Oh! Edith never named that. To be sure, she has written in such a hurry lately. Did they really sail on Tuesday
Really sailed, and relieved me from many responsibilities. Edith gave me all sorts of messages for you. I believe I have a little diminutive note somewhere; yes, here it is
Oh! thank you
The living is evidently as small as she said. It seems strange, for the Beresfords belong to a good family
It is most unfortunate! We are dining early to-day, and having nothing but cold meat, in order that the servants may get on with their ironing; and yet, of course, we must ask him to dinner -- Edith's brother-in-law and all. And your papa is in such low spirits this morning about something -- I don't know what. I went into the study just now, and he had his face on the table, covering it with his hands. I told him I was sure Helstone air did not agree with him any more than with me, and he suddenly lifted up his head, and begged me not to speak a word more against Helstone, he could not bear it; if there was one place he loved on earth it was Helstone. But I am sure, for all that, it is the damp and relaxing air
But what are we to do with him till then? It is only half-past ten now
I'll ask him to go out sketching with me. I know he draws, and that will take him out of your way, mamma. Only do come in now; he will think it so strange if you don't
Now, please, just stop here for a minute or two, said Margaret. 'These are the cottages that haunted me so during the rainy fortnight, reproaching me for not having sketched them
Before they tumbled down and were no more seen. Truly, if they are to be sketched -- and they are very picturesque -- we had better not put it off till next year. But where shall we sit
Oh! You might have come straight from chambers in the Temple
With your feet in that puddle for a regal footstool! Stay, I will move, and then you can come nearer this way. Who lives in these cottages
They were built by squatters fifty or sixty years ago. One is uninhabited; the foresters are going to take it down, as soon as the old man who lives in the other is dead, poor old fellow! Look -- there he is -- I must go and speak to him. He is so deaf you will hear all our secrets
Now, I call that treacherous
I little thought you were making old Isaac and me into subjects, when you told me to ask him the history of these cottages
It was irresistible. You can't know how strong a temptation it was. I hardly dare tell you how much I shall like this sketch
I think you have made the tints on the thatch too dark, have you not
No, papa! I don't think I have. The house-leek and stone-crop have grown so much darker in the rain. Is it not like, papa
Yes, very like. Your figure and way of holding yourself is capital. And it is just poor old Isaac's stiff way of stooping his long rheumatic back. What is this hanging from the branch of the tree? Not a bird's nest, surely
Oh no! that is my bonnet. I never can draw with my bonnet on; it makes my head so hot. I wonder if I could manage figures. There are so many people about here whom I should like to sketch
I should say that a likeness you very much wish to take you would always succeed in
I have great faith in the power of will. I think myself I have succeeded pretty well in yours
A regular London girl would understand the implied meaning of that speech
She would be up to looking through every speech that a young man made her for the arriere-pensee of a compliment. But I don't believe Margaret,-- Stay
Let me help you
Margaret, my child, you might have gathered us some pears for our dessert
There are a few brown beurres against the south wall which are worth all foreign fruits and preserves. Run, Margaret, and gather us some
I shall arm myself with a knife
the days of eating fruit so primitively as you describe are over with me. I must pare it and quarter it before I can enjoy it
What a perfect life you seem to live here! I have always felt rather contemptuously towards the poets before, with their wishes, "Mine be a cot beside a hill," and that sort of thing: but now I am afraid that the truth is, I have been nothing better than a cockney. Just now I feel as if twenty years' hard study of law would be amply rewarded by one year of such an exquisite serene life as this -- such skies
such crimson and amber foliage, so perfectly motionless as that
You must please to remember that our skies are not always as deep a blue as they are now. We have rain, and our leaves do fall, and get sodden: though I think Helstone is about as perfect a place as any in the world. Recollect how you rather scorned my description of it one evening in Harley Street: "a village in a tale
Scorned, Margaret That is rather a hard word
Perhaps it is. Only I know I should have liked to have talked to you of what I was very full at the time, and you -- what must I call it, then?-- spoke disrespectfully of Helstone as a mere village in a tale
I will never do so again
I could almost wish, Margaret
Margaret
Margaret, I wish you did not like Helstone so much -- did not seem so perfectly calm and happy here. I have been hoping for these three months past to find you regretting London -- and London friends, a little -- enough to make you listen more kindly' (for she was quietly, but firmly, striving to extricate her hand from his grasp) 'to one who has not much to offer, it is true -- nothing but prospects in the future -- but who does love you, Margaret, almost in spite of himself. Margaret, have I startled you too much? Speak
I was startled. I did not know that you cared for me in that way. I have always thought of you as a friend; and, please, I would rather go on thinking of you so. I don't like to be spoken to as you have been doing. I cannot answer you as you want me to do, and yet I should feel so sorry if I vexed you
Margaret
Do you
love any one else
Forgive me I have been too abrupt. I am punished. Only let me hope. Give me the poor comfort of telling me you have never seen any one whom you could
Ah! if you had but never got this fancy into your head! It was such a pleasure to think of you as a friend
But I may hope, may I not, Margaret, that some time you will think of me as a lover? Not yet, I see -- there is no hurry -- but some time
I have never thought of -- you, but as a friend. I like to think of you so; but I am sure I could never think of you as anything else. Pray, let us both forget that all this' ('disagreeable
conversation has taken place
Of course, as your feelings are so decided, and as this conversation has been so evidently unpleasant to you, it had better not be remembered. That is all very fine in theory, that plan of forgetting whatever is painful, but it will be somewhat difficult for me, at least, to carry it into execution
You are vexed
yet how can I help it
You should make allowances for the mortification, not only of a lover, Margaret, but of a man not given to romance in general -- prudent, worldly, as some people call me -- who has been carried out of his usual habits by the force of a passion -- well, we will say no more of that; but in the one outlet which he has formed for the deeper and better feelings of his nature, he meets with rejection and repulse. I shall have to console myself with scorning my own folly. A struggling barrister to think of matrimony
I am not so indifferent to her as she believes
I do not give up hope
Margaret, don't despise me; I have a heart, notwithstanding all this good-for-nothing way of talking. As a proof of it, I believe I love you more than ever -- if I do not hate you -- for the disdain with which you have listened to me during this last half-hour. Good-bye, Margaret -- Margaret
Cast me upon some naked shore, Where I may tracke Only the print of some sad wracke, If thou be there, though the seas roare, I shall no gentler calm implore
Margaret
Is that tapestry thing of immediate consequence? I mean, can you leave it and come into my study? I want to speak to you about something very serious to us all
Very serious to us all
Margaret! I am going to leave Helstone
Leave Helstone, papa! But why
But why, dear papa? Do tell me
Because I must no longer be a minister in the Church of England
Oh! what is it? do speak, papa! tell me all! Why can you no longer be a clergyman? Surely, if the bishop were told all we know about Frederick, and the hard, unjust
It is nothing about Frederick; the bishop would have nothing to do with that. It is all myself. Margaret, I will tell you about it. I will answer any questions this once, but after to-night let us never speak of it again. I can meet the consequences of my painful, miserable doubts; but it is an effort beyond me to speak of what has caused me so much suffering
Doubts, papa! Doubts as to religion
No! not doubts as to religion; not the slightest injury to that
You could not understand it all, if I told you -- my anxiety, for years past, to know whether I had any right to hold my living -- my efforts to quench my smouldering doubts by the authority of the Church. Oh! Margaret, how I love the holy Church from which I am to be shut out
I have been reading to-day of the two thousand who were ejected from their churches
trying to steal some of their bravery; but it is of no use -- no use -- I cannot help feeling it acutely
But, papa, have you well considered? Oh! it seems so terrible, so shocking
Listen, dear Margaret
This is the soliloquy of one who was once a clergyman in a country parish, like me; it was written by a Mr. Oldfield, minister of Carsington, in Derbyshire, a hundred and sixty years ago, or more. His trials are over. He fought the good fight
Margaret, dear
think of the early martyrs; think of the thousands who have suffered
But, father
the early martyrs suffered for the truth, while you -- oh! dear, dear papa
I suffer for conscience' sake, my child
I must do what my conscience bids. I have borne long with self-reproach that would have roused any mind less torpid and cowardly than mine
Your poor mother's fond wish, gratified at last in the mocking way in which over-fond wishes are too often fulfilled -- Sodom apples as they are -- has brought on this crisis, for which I ought to be, and I hope I am thankful. It is not a month since the bishop offered me another living; if I had accepted it, I should have had to make a fresh declaration of conformity to the Liturgy at my institution. Margaret, I tried to do it; I tried to content myself with simply refusing the additional preferment, and stopping quietly here,-- strangling my conscience now, as I had strained it before. God forgive me
Margaret, I return to the old sad burden we must leave Helstone
Yes! I see. But when
I have written to the bishop -- I dare say I have told you so, but I forget things just now
informing him of my intention to resign this vicarage. He has been most kind; he has used arguments and expostulations, all in vain -- in vain. They are but what I have tried upon myself, without avail. I shall have to take my deed of resignation, and wait upon the bishop myself, to bid him farewell. That will be a trial, but worse, far worse, will be the parting from my dear people. There is a curate appointed to read prayers -- a Mr. Brown. He will come to stay with us to-morrow. Next Sunday I preach my farewell sermon
What does mamma say
Margaret, I am a poor coward after all. I cannot bear to give pain. I know so well your mother's married life has not been all she hoped -- all she had a right to expect -- and this will be such a blow to her, that I have never had the heart, the power to tell her. She must be told though, now
Yes, indeed she must
Perhaps, after all, she may not -- Oh yes! she will, she must be shocked
Where are we to go to
To Milton-Northern
Milton-Northern! The manufacturing town in Darkshire
Yes
Why there, papa
Because there I can earn bread for my family. Because I know no one there, and no one knows Helstone, or can ever talk to me about it
Bread for your family! I thought you and mamma had
You shall be told all, Margaret. Only help me to tell your mother. I think I could do anything but that: the idea of her distress turns me sick with dread. If I tell you all, perhaps you could break it to her to-morrow. I am going out for the day, to bid Farmer Dobson and the poor people on Bracy Common good-bye. Would you dislike breaking it to her very much, Margaret
You dislike it very much, don't you, *Margaret
It is a painful thing, but it must be done, and I will do it as well as ever I can. You must have many painful things to do
Now tell me, papa, what our plans are. You and mamma have some money, independent of the income from the living, have not you? Aunt Shaw has, I know
Yes. I suppose we have about a hundred and seventy pounds a year of our own. Seventy of that has always gone to Frederick, since he has been abroad. I don't know if he wants it all
He must have some pay for serving with the Spanish army
Frederick must not suffer
in a foreign country; so unjustly treated by his own. A hundred is left Could not you, and I, and mamma live on a hundred a year in some very cheap -- very quiet part of England? Oh! I think we could
No
That would not answer. I must do something. I must make myself busy, to keep off morbid thoughts. Besides, in a country parish I should be so painfully reminded of Helstone, and my duties here. I could not bear it, Margaret. And a hundred a year would go a very little way, after the necessary wants of housekeeping are met, towards providing your mother with all the comforts she has been accustomed to, and ought to have. No: we must go to Milton. That is settled. I can always decide better by myself, and not influenced by those whom I love
I cannot stand objections. They make me so undecided
A few months ago, when my misery of doubt became more than I could bear without speaking, I wrote to Mr. Bell -- you remember Mr. Bell, Margaret
No; I never saw him, I think. But I know who he is. Frederick's godfather -- your old tutor at Oxford, don't you mean
Yes. He is a Fellow of Plymouth College there. He is a native of Milton-Northern, I believe. At any rate, he has property there, which has very much increased in value since Milton has become such a large manufacturing town. Well, I had reason to suspect -- to imagine -- I had better say nothing about it, however. But I felt sure of sympathy from Mr. Bell. I don't know that he gave me much strength. He has lived an easy life in his college all his days. But he has been as kind as can be. And it is owing to him we are going to Milton
How
Why he has tenants, and houses, and mills there; so, though he dislikes the place -- too bustling for one of his habits -- he is obliged to keep up some sort of connection; and he tells me that he hears there is a good opening for a private tutor there
A private tutor
What in the world do manufacturers want with the classics, or literature, or the accomplishments of a gentleman
Oh
some of them really seem to be fine fellows, conscious of their own deficiencies, which is more than many a man at Oxford is. Some want resolutely to learn, though they have come to man's estate. Some want their children to be better instructed than they themselves have been. At any rate, there is an opening, as I have said, for a private tutor. Mr. Bell has recommended me to a Mr. Thornton, a tenant of his, and a very intelligent man, as far as I can judge from his letters. And in Milton, Margaret, I shall find a busy life, if not a happy one, and people and scenes so different that I shall never be reminded of Helstone
When do we go
In a fortnight
No -- no, not exactly to a day. Nothing is fixed
Yes, papa, it had better be fixed soon and decidedly, as you say. Only mamma to know nothing about it! It is that that is the great perplexity
Poor Maria
Poor, poor Maria! Oh, if I were not married -- if I were but myself in the world, how easy it would be! As it is -- Margaret, I dare not tell her
No
I will do it. Give me till to-morrow evening to choose my time Oh, papa
say -- tell me it is a night-mare -- a horrid dream -- not the real waking truth! You cannot mean that you are really going to leave the Church -- to give up Helstone -- to be for ever separate from me, from mamma -- led away by some delusion -- some temptation! You do not really mean it
I do mean it, Margaret. You must not deceive yourself into doubting the reality of my words -- my fixed intention and resolve
The blessing of God be upon thee, my child
And may He restore you to His Church
The martyrs and confessors had even more pain to bear -- I will not shrink
Go, Margaret, go. I shall be out all to-morrow. Before night you will have told your mother
Yes
I ask Thee for a thoughtful love, Through constant watching wise, To meet the glad with joyful smiles, And to wipe the weeping eyes; And a heart at leisure from itself To soothe and sympathise
Papa has always spent the income he derived from his living in the parish. I am, perhaps, encroaching upon the next dues, but the winter is likely to be severe, and our poor old people must be helped
Oh, mamma, let us do all we can
we may not be here long
Do you feel ill, my darling
You look pale and tired. It is this soft, damp, unhealthy air
No -- no, mamma, it is not that: it is delicious air. It smells of the freshest, purest fragrance, after the smokiness of Harley Street. But I am tired: it surely must be near bedtime
Not far off -- it is half-past nine. You had better go to bed at dear. Ask Dixon for some gruel. I will come and see you as soon as you are in bed. I am afraid you have taken cold; or the bad air from some of the stagnant ponds
Oh, mamma
I am quite well -- don't alarm yourself about me; I am only tired
Margaret, I heard you were up. I could not help coming in to ask you to pray with me -- to say the Lord's Prayer; that will do good to both of us
I shall not be at home till evening. I am going to Bracy Common, and will ask Farmer Dobson to give me something for dinner. I shall be back to tea at seven
Mother, come round the garden with me this morning; just one turn
Mamma! Papa is going to leave Helstone
He's going to leave the Church, and live in Milton-Northern
What makes you say so
Who has been telling you such nonsense
Papa himself
I don't understand you
Either you have made some great mistake, or I don't quite understand you
No, mother, I have made no mistake. Papa has written to the bishop, saying that he has such doubts that he cannot conscientiously remain a priest of the Church of England, and that he must give up Helstone. He has also consulted Mr. Bell -- Frederick's godfather, you know, mamma; and it is arranged that we go to live in Milton-Northern
I don't think it can be true
He would surely have told me before it came to this
Dear, darling mamma! we were so afraid of giving you pain. Papa felt so acutely -- you know you are not strong, and there must have been such terrible suspense to go through
When did he tell you, Margaret
Yesterday, only yesterday
Poor papa
What does he mean by having doubts
Surely, he does not mean that he thinks differently -- that he knows better than the Church
Can't the bishop set him right
I'm afraid not
But I did not ask. I could not bear to hear what he might answer. It is all settled at any rate. He is going to leave Helstone in a fortnight. I am not sure if he did not say he had sent in his deed of resignation
In a fortnight
I do think this is very strange -- not at all right. I call it very unfeeling
He has doubts, you say, and gives up his living, and all without consulting me. I dare say, if he had told me his doubts at the first I could have nipped them in the bud
I almost hoped you might have been glad to leave Helstone, mamma
You have never been well in this air, you know
You can't think the smoky air of a manufacturing town, all chimneys and dirt like Milton-Northern, would be better than this air, which is pure and sweet, if it is too soft and relaxing. Fancy living in the middle of factories, and factory people! Though, of course, if your father leaves the Church, we shall not be admitted into society anywhere. It will be such a disgrace to us! Poor dear Sir John! It is well he is not alive to see what your father has come to! Every day after dinner, when I was a girl, living with your aunt Shaw, at Beresford Court, Sir John used to give for the first toast --"Church and King, and down with the Rump
You know, we have very little society here, mamma. The Gormans, who are our nearest neighbours (to call society -- and we hardly ever see them), have been in trade just as much as these Milton-Northern people
Yes
but, at any rate, the Gormans made carriages for half the gentry of the county, and were brought into some kind of intercourse with them; but these factory people, who on earth wears cotton that can afford linen
Well, mamma, I give up the cotton-spinners; I am not standing up for them, any more than for any other trades-people. Only we shall have little enough to do with them
Why on earth has your father fixed on Milton-Northern to live in
Partly
because it is so very different from Helstone -- partly because Mr. Bell says there is an opening there for a private tutor
Private tutor in Milton! Why can't he go to Oxford, and be a tutor to gentlemen
You forget, mamma! He is leaving the Church on account of his opinions -- his doubts would do him no good at Oxford
And the furniture -- How in the world are we to manage the removal? I never removed in my life, and only a fortnight to think about it
Oh! Richard, Richard, you should have told me sooner
Oh, Dixon! I did not hear you come into the room
Is it very late
I hardly can tell what time it is
Since your mamma told me this terrible news, when I dressed her for tea, I've lost all count of time. I'm sure I don't know what is to become of us all. When Charlotte told me just now you were sobbing, Miss Hale, I thought, no wonder, poor thing! And master thinking of turning Dissenter at his time of life, when, if it is not to be said he's done well in the Church, he's not done badly after all. I had a cousin, miss, who turned Methodist preacher after he was fifty years of age, and a tailor all his life; but then he had never been able to make a pair of trousers to fit, for as long as he had been in the trade, so it was no wonder; but for master! as I said to missus, "What would poor Sir John have said? he never liked your marrying Mr. Hale, but if he could have known it would have come to this, he would have sworn worse oaths than ever, if that was possible
Dixon
Dixon! you forget to whom you are speaking
I am Mr. Hale's daughter. Go! You have made a strange mistake, and one that I am sure your own good feeling will make you sorry for when you think about it
You may leave me, Dixon. I wish you to go
Miss Margaret has a touch of the old gentleman about her, as well as poor Master Frederick; I wonder where they get it from
Mayn't I unfasten your gown, miss, and do your hair
No! not to-night, thank you
Any one but a gentleman -- indeed almost any other gentleman --' but catching a look at Margaret's straight, stern brow just here, she coughed the remainder of the sentence away, and meekly took the horehound drop that Margaret offered her, to stop the 'little tickling at my chest, miss
My dear! I have really had too much to think about to settle this. What does your mother say? What does she wish? Poor Maria
My poor mistress
You don't think her worse to-day
I'm sure I can't say, sir. It's not for me to judge. The illness seems so much more on the mind than on the body
You had better take mamma her tea while it is hot, Dixon
Oh! I beg your pardon, miss! My thoughts was otherwise occupied in thinking of my poor ---- of Mrs. Hale
Papa
it is this suspense that is bad for you both. Of course, mamma must feel your change of opinions: we can't help that
but now the course is clear, at least to a certain point. And I think, papa, that I could get mamma to help me in planning, if you could tell me what to plan for. She has never expressed any wish in any way, and only thinks of what can't be helped. Are we to go straight to Milton? Have you taken a house there
No
And pack up the furniture so that it can be left at the railway station, till we have met with one
I suppose so. Do what you think best. Only remember, we shall have much less money to spend
I have hit upon such a beautiful plan. Look here -- in Darkshire, hardly the breadth of my finger from Milton, is Heston, which I have often heard of from people living in the north as such a pleasant little bathing-place. Now, don't you think we could get mamma there with Dixon, while you and I go and look at houses, and get one all ready for her in Milton? She would get a breath of sea air to set her up for the winter, and be spared all the fatigue, and Dixon would enjoy taking care of her
Is Dixon to go with us
Oh, yes
Dixon quite intends it, and I don't know what mamma would do without her
But we shall have to put up with a very different way of living, I am afraid. Everything is so much dearer in a town. I doubt if Dixon can make herself comfortable. To tell you the truth Margaret, I sometimes feel as if that woman gave herself airs
To be sure she does, papa
and if she has to put up with a different style of living, we shall have to put up with her airs, which will be worse. But she really loves us all, and would be miserable to leave us, I am sure -- especially in this change; so, for mamma's sake, and for the sake of her faithfulness, I do think she must go
Very well, my dear. Go on. I am resigned. How far is Heston from Milton? The breadth of one of your fingers does not give me a very clear idea of distance
Well, then, I suppose it is thirty miles; that is not much
Not in distance, but in --. Never mind! If you really think it will do your mother good, let it be fixed so
Let me in! Let me in! It is only me, Charlotte
I was afraid you were shutting me out altogether, Charlotte
And then you would never have heard me in the kitchen, and the doors into the lane and churchyard are locked long ago
Oh, miss, I should have been sure to have missed you soon. The men would have wanted you to tell them how to go on. And I have put tea in master's study, as being the most comfortable room, so to speak
Thank you, Charlotte. You are a kind girl. I shall be sorry to leave you. You must try and write to me, if I can ever give you any little help or good advice. I shall always be glad to get a letter from Helstone, you know. I shall be sure and send you my address when. I know it
Have you been a very long walk to-day
As far as Fordham Beeches. I went to see Widow Maltby; she is sadly grieved at not having wished you good-bye. She says little Susan has kept watch down the lane for days past.-- Nay, Margaret, what is the matter, dear
I cannot bear it. I cannot bear to see the sufferings of others. I think I could go through my own with patience. Oh, is there no going back
No, father
It is bad to believe you in error. It would he infinitely worse to have known you a hypocrite
Besides
it is only that I am tired to-night; don't think that I am suffering from what you have done, dear papa. We can't either of us talk about it to-night, I believe
I had better go and take mamma up this cup of tea. She had hers very early, when I was too busy to go to her, and I am sure she will be glad of another now
Oh, there's Harrison's, where I bought so many of my wedding-things. Dear! how altered! They've got immense plate-glass windows, larger than Crawford's in Southampton. Oh, and there, I declare -- no, it is not -- yes, it is -- Margaret, we have just passed Mr. Henry Lennox. Where can he be going, among all these shops
they sat with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him; for they saw that his grief was very great
Mist clogs the sunshine, Smoky dwarf houses Have we round on every side
purposelike
New Street
This, I believe, is the principal street in Milton. Bell has often spoken to me about it. It was the opening of this street from a lane into a great thoroughfare, thirty years ago, which has caused his property to rise so much in value. Mr. Thornton's mill must be somewhere not very far off, for he is Mr. Bell's tenant. But I fancy he dates from his warehouse
Where is our hotel, papa
Close to the end of this street, I believe. Shall we have lunch before or after we have looked at the houses we marked in the Milton Times
Oh, let us get our work done first
Very well. Then I will only see if there is any note or letter for me from Mr. Thornton, who said he would let me know anything he might hear about these houses, and then we will set off. We will keep the cab; it will be safer than losing ourselves, and being too late for the train this afternoon
We must go back to the second, I think. That one,-- in Crampton, don't they call the suburb? There were three sitting-rooms; don't you remember how we laughed at the number compared with the three bed-rooms? But I have planned it all. The front room down-stairs is to be your study and our dining-room (poor papa!), for, you know, we settled mamma is to have as cheerful a sitting-room as we can get; and that front room up-stairs, with the atrocious blue and pink paper and heavy cornice, had really a pretty view over the plain, with a great bend of river, or canal, or whatever it is, down below. Then I could have the little bed-room behind, in that projection at the head of the first flight of stairs -- over the kitchen, you know -- and you and mamma the room behind the drawing-room, and that closet in the roof will make you a splendid dressing-room
But Dixon, and the girl we are to have to help
Oh, wait a minute. I am overpowered by the discovery of my own genius for management. Dixon is to have -- let me see, I had it once -- the back sitting-room. I think she will like that. She grumbles so much about the stairs at Heston; and the girl is to have that sloping attic over your room and mamma's. Won't that do
I dare say it will. But the papers. What taste! And the overloading such a house with colour and such heavy cornices
Never mind, papa! Surely, you can charm the landlord into re-papering one or two of the rooms -- the drawing-room and your bed-room -- for mamma will come most in contact with them; and your book-shelves will hide a great deal of that gaudy pattern in the dining-room
Then you think it the best? If so, I had better go at once and call on this Mr. Donkin, to whom the advertisement refers me. I will take you back to the hotel, where you can order lunch, and rest, and by the time it is ready, I shall be with you. I hope I shall be able to get new papers
I beg your pardon, ma'am. The gentleman was gone so quickly, I had no time to tell him. Mr. Thornton called almost directly after you left; and, as I understood from what the gentleman said, you would be back in an hour, I told him so, and he came again about five minutes ago, and said he would wait for Mr. Hale. He is in your room now, ma'am
Thank you. My father will return soon, and then you can tell him
Mr. Thornton, I believe
Will you sit down. My father brought me to the door, not a minute ago, but unfortunately he was not told that you were here, and he has gone away on some business. But he will come back almost directly. I am sorry you have had the trouble of calling twice
Do you know where it is that Mr. Hale has gone to? Perhaps I might be able to find him
He has gone to a Mr. Donkin's in Canute Street. He is the land-lord of the house my father wishes to take in Crampton
Margaret! the landlord will persist in admiring that hideous paper, and I am afraid we must let it remain
Oh dear! I am sorry
Well, Margaret, now to luncheon, as fast we can. Have you ordered it
No, papa; that man was here when I came home, and I have never had an opportunity
Then we must take anything we can get. He must have been waiting a long time, I'm afraid
It seemed exceedingly long to me. I was just at the last gasp when you came in. He never went on with any subject, but gave little, short, abrupt answers
Very much to the point though, I should think. He is a clearheaded fellow. He said (did you hear?) that Crampton is on gravelly soil, and by far the most healthy suburb in the neighbour hood of Milton
And what is your correspondent, Mr. Thornton, like
Ask Margaret
She and he had a long attempt at conversation, while I was away speaking to the landlord
Oh! I hardly know what he is like
He is a tall, broad-shouldered man, about -- how old, papa
I should guess about thirty
About thirty -- with a face that is neither exactly plain, nor yet handsome, nothing remarkable -- not quite a gentleman; but that was hardly to be expected
Not vulgar, or common though
Oh no
With such an expression of resolution and power, no face, however plain in feature, could be either vulgar or common. I should not like to have to bargain with him; he looks very inflexible. Altogether a man who seems made for his niche, mamma; sagacious, and strong, as becomes a great tradesman
Don't call the Milton manufacturers tradesmen, Margaret
They are very different
Are they? I apply the word to all who have something tangible to sell; but if you think the term is not correct, papa, I won't use it. But, oh mamma! speaking of vulgarity and commonness, you must prepare yourself for our drawing-room paper. Pink and blue roses, with yellow leaves! And such a heavy cornice round the room
Oh, Margaret! are we to live here
Oh, the fogs in London are sometimes far worse
But then you knew that London itself, and friends lay behind it. Here -- well! we are desolate. Oh Dixon, what a place this is
Indeed, ma'am, I'm sure it will be your death before long, and then I know who'll -- stay! Miss Hale, that's far too heavy for you to lift
Not at all, thank you, Dixon
The best thing we can do for mamma is to get her room quite ready for her to go to bed, while I go and bring her a cup of coffee
Margaret, I do believe this is an unhealthy place. Only suppose that your mother's health or yours should suffer. I wish I had gone into some country place in Wales; this is really terrible
Your bonny face, my lass, makes the day look brighter
You may well smile, my lass; many a one would smile to have such a bonny face
Thank yo, Miss. Bessy'll think a deal o' them flowers; that hoo will; and I shall think a deal o' yor kindness. Yo're not of this country, I reckon
No
I come from the South -- from Hampshire
That's beyond London, I reckon? And I come fro' Burnley-ways, and forty mile to th' North. And yet, yo see, North and South has both met and made kind o' friends in this big smoky place
I'm afraid you are not very strong
No
nor never will be
Spring is coming
Spring nor summer will do me good
I'm afeared hoo speaks truth. I'm afeared hoo's too far gone in a waste
I shall have a spring where I'm boun to, and flowers, and amaranths, and shining robes besides
Poor lass, poor lass
I'm none so sure o' that; but it's a comfort to thee, poor lass, poor lass. Poor father! it'll be soon
Where do you live? I think we must be neighbours, we meet so often on this road
We put up at nine Frances Street, second turn to th' left at after yo've past th' Goulden Dragon
And your name? I must not forget that
I'm none ashamed o' my name. It's Nicholas Higgins. Hoo's called Bessy Higgins. Whatten yo' asking for
I thought -- I meant to come and see you
I'm none so fond of having strange folk in my house
Yo're a foreigner, as one may say, and maybe don't know many folk here, and yo've given my wench here flowers out of yo'r own hand;-- yo may come if yo like
Yo'll not forget yo're to come and see us
Aye, aye
hoo'll come. Hoo's a bit set up now, because hoo thinks I might ha' spoken more civilly; but hoo'll think better on it, and come. I can read her proud bonny face like a book. Come along, Bess; there's the mill bell ringing
Let China's earth, enrich'd with colour'd stains, Pencil'd with gold, and streak'd with azure veins, The grateful flavour of the Indian leaf, Or Mocho's sunburnt berry glad receive
My dear! I've asked Mr. Thornton to come to tea to-night
Mr. Thornton!-- and to-night! What in the world does the man want to come here for? And Dixon is washing my muslins and laces, and there is no soft water with these horrid east winds, which I suppose we shall have all the year round in Milton
The wind is veering round, my dear
Don't tell me
But, east or west wind, I suppose this man comes
Oh, mamma, that shows you never saw Mr. Thornton. He looks like a person who would enjoy battling with every adverse thing he could meet with -- enemies, winds, or circumstances. The more it rains and blows, the more certain we are to have him. But I'll go and help Dixon. I'm getting to be a famous clear-starcher. And he won't want any amusement beyond talking to papa. Papa, I am really longing to see the Pythias to your Damon. You know I never saw him but once, and then we were so puzzled to know what to say to each other that we did not get on particularly well
I don't know that you would ever like him, or think him agreeable, Margaret. He is not a lady's man
I don't particularly admire ladies' men, papa. But Mr. Thornton comes here as your friend -- as one who has appreciated you
The only person in Milton
So we will give him a welcome, and some cocoa-nut cakes. Dixon will be flattered if we ask her to make some; and I will undertake to iron your caps, mamma
Yes! if any one had told me, when I was Miss Beresford, and one of the belles of the county, that a child of mine would have to stand half a day, in a little poky kitchen, working away like any servant, that we might prepare properly for the reception of a tradesman, and that this tradesman should be the only
don't punish me so for a careless speech. I don't mind ironing, or any kind of work, for you and papa. I am myself a born and bred lady through it all, even though it comes to scouring a floor, or washing dishes. I am tired now, just for a little while; but in half an hour I shall be ready to do the same over again. And as to Mr. Thornton's being in trade, why he can't help that now, poor fellow. I don't suppose his education would fit him for much else
John! Is that you
What has brought you home so early? I thought you were going to tea with that friend of Mr. Bell's; that Mr. Hale
So I am, mother; I am come home to dress
Dress! humph! When I was a girl, young men were satisfied with dressing once in a day. Why should you dress to go and take a cup of tea with an old parson
Mr. Hale is a gentleman, and his wife and daughter are ladies
Wife and daughter! Do they teach too? What do they do? You have never mentioned them
No! mother, because I have never seen Mrs. Hale; I have only seen Miss Hale for half an hour
Take care you don't get caught by a penniless girl, John
I am not easily caught, mother, as I think you know. But I must not have Miss Hale spoken of in that way, which, you know, is offensive to me. I never was aware of any young lady trying to catch me yet, nor do I believe that any one has ever given themselves that useless trouble
Well! I only say, take care. Perhaps our Milton girls have too much spirit and good feeling to go angling after husbands; but this Miss Hale comes out of the aristocratic counties, where, if all tales be true, rich husbands are reckoned prizes
Mother' (with a short scornful laugh), 'you will make me confess. The only time I saw Miss Hale, she treated me with a haughty civility which had a strong flavour of contempt in it. She held herself aloof from me as if she had been a queen, and I her humble, unwashed vassal. Be easy, mother
No! I am not easy, nor content either. What business had she, a renegade clergyman's daughter, to turn up her nose at you! I would dress for none of them -- a saucy set! if I were you
Mr. Hale is good, and gentle, and learned. He is not saucy. As for Mrs. Hale, I will tell you what she is like to-night, if you care to hear
Despise my son! treat him as her vassal, indeed! Humph! I should like to know where she could find such another! Boy and man, he's the noblest, stoutest heart I ever knew. I don't care if I am his mother; I can see what's what, and not be blind. I know what Fanny is; and I know what John is. Despise him! I hate her
We are the trees whom shaking fastens more
There it goes, again
And this imagination of power, this practical realisation of a gigantic thought, came out of one man's brain in our good town. That very man has it within him to mount, step by step, on each wonder he achieves to higher marvels still. And I'll be bound to say, we have many among us who, if he were gone, could spring into the breach and carry on the war which compels, and shall compel, all material power to yield to science
Your boast reminds me of the old lines --"I've a hundred captains in England," he said, "As good as ever was he
It is no boast of mine
it is plain matter-of-fact. I won't deny that I am proud of belonging to a town -- or perhaps I should rather say a district -- the necessities of which give birth to such grandeur of conception. I would rather be a man toiling, suffering -- nay, failing and successless -- here, than lead a dull prosperous life in the old worn grooves of what you call more aristocratic society down in the South, with their slow days of careless ease. One may be clogged with honey and unable to rise and fly
You are mistaken
You do not know anything about the South. If there is less adventure or less progress -- I suppose I must not say less excitement -- from the gambling spirit of trade, which seems requisite to force out these wonderful inventions, there is less suffering also. I see men h ere going about in the streets who look ground down by some pinching sorrow or care -- who are not only sufferers but haters. Now, in the South we have our poor, but there is not that terrible expression in their countenances of a sullen sense of injustice which I see here. You do not know the South, Mr. Thornton
And may I say you do not know the North
At any rate, Mr. Thornton
you will allow that Milton is a much more smoky, dirty town than you will ever meet with in the South
I'm afraid I must give up its cleanliness
But we are bidden by parliament to burn our own smoke; so I suppose, like good little children, we shall do as we are bid -- some time
But I think you told me you had altered your chimneys so as to consume the smoke, did you not
Mine were altered by my own will, before parliament meddled with the affair. It was an immediate outlay, but it repays me in the saving of coal. I'm not sure whether I should have done it, if I had waited until the act was passed. At any rate, I should have waited to be informed against and fined, and given all the trouble in yielding that I legally could. But all laws which depend for their enforcement upon informers and fines, become inert from the odiousness of the machinery. I doubt if there has been a chimney in Milton informed against for five years past, although some are constantly sending out one-third of their coal in what is called here unparliamentary smoke
Yes, mamma
You seem to have a strong objection to acts of parliament and all legislation affecting your mode of management down here at Milton
Yes, I have; and many others have as well. And with justice, I think. The whole machinery -- I don't mean the wood and iron machinery now -- of the cotton trade is so new that it is no wonder if it does not work well in every part all at once. Seventy years ago what was it? And now what is it not? Raw, crude materials came together; men of the same level, as regarded education and station, took suddenly the different positions of masters and men, owing to the motherwit, as regarded opportunities and probabilities, which distinguished some, and made them far-seeing as to what great future lay concealed in that rude model of Sir Richard Arkwright's. The rapid development of what might be called a new trade, gave those early masters enormous power of wealth and command. I don't mean merely over the workmen; I mean over purchasers -- over the whole world's market. Why, I may give you, as an instance, an advertisement, inserted not fifty years ago in a Milton paper, that so-and-so (one of the half-dozen calico-printers of the time) would close his warehouse at noon each day; therefore, that all purchasers must come before that hour. Fancy a man dictating in this manner the time when he would sell and when he would not sell. Now, I believe, if a good customer chose to come at midnight, I should get up, and stand hat in hand to receive his orders
Is there necessity for calling it a battle between the two classes
I know, from your using the term, it is one which gives a true idea of the real state of things to your mind
It is true; and I believe it to be as much a necessity as that prudent wisdom and good conduct are always opposed to, and doing battle with ignorance and improvidence. It is one of the great beauties of our system, that a working-man may raise himself into the power and position of a master by his own exertions and behaviour; that, in fact, every one who rules himself to decency and sobriety of conduct, and attention to his duties, comes over to our ranks; it may not be always as a master, but as an over-looker, a cashier, a book-keeper, a clerk, one on the side of authority and order
You consider all who are unsuccessful in raising themselves in the world, from whatever cause, as your enemies, then, if I under-stand you rightly
As their own enemies, certainly
I am not speaking without book. Sixteen years ago, my father died under very miserable circumstances. I was taken from school, and had to become a man (as well as I could) in a few days. I had such a mother as few are blest with; a woman of strong power, and firm resolve. We went into a small country town, where living was cheaper than in Milton, and where I got employment in a draper's shop (a capital place, by the way, for obtaining a knowledge of goods). Week by week our income came to fifteen shillings, out of which three people had to be kept. My mother managed so that I put by three out of these fifteen shillings regularly. This made the beginning; this taught me self-denial. Now that I am able to afford my mother such comforts as her age, rather than her own wish, requires, I thank her silently on each occasion for the early training she gave me. Now when I feel that in my own case it is no good luck, nor merit, nor talent,-- but simply the habits of life which taught me to despise indulgences not thoroughly earned,-- indeed, never to think twice about them,-- I believe that this suffering, which Miss Hale says is impressed on the countenances of the people of Milton, is but the natural punishment of dishonestly-enjoyed pleasure, at some former period of their lives. I do not look on self-indulgent, sensual people as worthy of my hatred; I simply look upon them with contempt for their poorness of character
But you have had the rudiments of a good education
The quick zest with which you are now reading Homer, shows me that you do not come to it as an unknown book; you have read it before, and are only recalling your old knowledge
That is true,-- I had blundered along it at school; I dare say, I was even considered a pretty fair classic in those days, though my Latin and Greek have slipt away from me since. But I ask you, what preparation they were for such a life as I had to lead? None at all. Utterly none at all. On the point of education, any man who can read and write starts fair with me in the amount of really useful knowledge that I had at that time
Well! I don't agree with you. But there I am perhaps somewhat of a pedant. Did not the recollection of the heroic simplicity of the Homeric life nerve you up
Not one bit
I was too busy to think about any dead people, with the living pressing alongside of me, neck to neck, in the struggle for bread. Now that I have my mother safe in the quiet peace that becomes her age, and duly rewards her former exertions, I can turn to all that old narration and thoroughly enjoy it
I dare say, my remark came from the professional feeling of there being nothing like leather
A more proud, disagreeable girl I never saw. Even her great beauty is blotted out of one's memory by her scornful ways
There's iron, they say, in all our blood, And a grain or two perhaps is good; But his, he makes me harshly feel, Has got a little too much of steel
Margaret
I could not help watching your face with some anxiety, when Mr. Thornton made his confession of having been a shop-boy. I knew it all along from Mr. Bell; so I was aware of what was coming; but I half expected to see you get up and leave the room
Oh, papa! you don't mean that you thought me so silly? I really liked that account of himself better than anything else he said. Everything else revolted me, from its hardness; but he spoke about himself so simply -- with so little of the pretence that makes the vulgarity of shop-people, and with such tender respect for his mother, that I was less likely to leave the room then than when he was boasting about Milton, as if there was not such another place in the world; or quietly professing to despise people for careless, wasteful improvidence, without ever seeming to think it his duty to try to make them different,-- to give them anything of the training which his mother gave him, and to which he evidently owes his position, whatever that may be. No! his statement of having been a shop-boy was the thing I liked best of all
I am surprised at you, Margaret
You who were always accusing people of being shoppy at Helstone! I don't I think, Mr. Hale, you have done quite right in introducing such a person to us without telling us what he had been. I really was very much afraid of showing him how much shocked I was at some parts of what he said. His father "dying in miserable circumstances." Why it might have been in the workhouse
I am not sure if it was not worse than being in the workhouse
I heard a good deal of his previous life from Mr. Bell before we came here; and as he has told you a part, I will fill up what he left out. His father speculated wildly, failed, and then killed himself, because he could not bear the disgrace. All his former friends shrunk from the disclosures that had to be made of his dishonest gambling -- wild, hopeless struggles, made with other people's money, to regain his own moderate portion of wealth. No one came forwards to help the mother and this boy. There was another child, I believe, a girl; too young to earn money, but of course she had to be kept. At least, no friend came forwards immediately, and Mrs. Thornton is not one, I fancy, to wait till tardy kindness comes to find her out. So they left Milton. I knew he had gone into a shop, and that his earnings, with some fragment of property secured to his mother, had been made to keep them for a long time. Mr. Bell said they absolutely lived upon water-porridge for years -- how, he did not know; but long after the creditors had given up hope of any payment of old Mr. Thornton's debts (if, indeed, they ever had hoped at all about it, after his suicide,) this young man returned to Milton, and went quietly round to each creditor, paying him the first instalment of the money owing to him. No noise -- no gathering together of creditors -- it was done very silently and quietly, but all was paid at last; helped on materially by the circumstance of one of the creditors, a crabbed old fellow (Mr. Bell says), taking in Mr. Thornton as a kind of partner
That really is fine
What a pity such a nature should be tainted by his position as a Milton manufacturer
How tainted
Oh, papa, by that testing everything by the standard of wealth. When he spoke of the mechanical powers, he evidently looked upon them only as new ways of extending trade and making money. And the poor men around him -- they were poor because they were vicious -- out of the pale of his sympathies because they had not his iron nature, and the capabilities that it gives him for being rich
Not vicious; he never said that. Improvident and self-indulgent were his words
Papa, I do think Mr. Thornton a very remarkable man; but personally I don't like him at all
And I do
Personally, as you call it, and all. I don't set him up for a hero, or anything of that kind. But good night, child. Your mother looks sadly tired to-night, Margaret
Well, Bessy, how are you? Better, I hope, now the wind has changed
Better and not better, if yo' know what that means
Not exactly
Bessy, do you wish to die
If yo'd led the life I have, and getten as weary of it as I have, and thought at times, "maybe it'll last for fifty or sixty years -- it does wi' some,"-- and got dizzy and dazed, and sick, as each of them sixty years seemed to spin about me, and mock me with its length of hours and minutes, and endless bits o' time -- oh, wench! I tell thee thou'd been glad enough when th' doctor said he feared thou'd never see another winter
Why, Bessy, what kind of a life has yours been
Nought worse than many others, I reckon. Only I fretted again it, and they didn't
But what was it? You know, I'm a stranger here, so perhaps I'm not so quick at understanding what you mean as if I'd lived all my life at Milton
If yo'd ha' come to our house when yo' said yo' would, I could maybe ha' told you. But father says yo're just like th' rest on 'em; it's out o' sight out o' mind wi' you
I don't know who the rest are; and I've been very busy; and, to tell the truth, I had forgotten my promise
Yo' offered it! we asked none of it
I had forgotten what I said for the time
I should have thought of it again when I was less busy. May I go with you now
Yo'll not be daunted if father's at home, and speaks a bit gruffish at first. He took a mind to ye, yo' see, and he thought a deal o' your coming to see us; and just because he liked yo' he were vexed and put about
Don't fear, Bessy
Do you think such life as this is worth caring for
They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat
Bessy, don't be impatient with your life, whatever it is -- or may have been. Remember who gave it you, and made it what it is
Now, I'll not have my wench preached to. She's bad enough as it is, with her dreams and her methodee fancies, and her visions of cities with goulden gates and precious stones. But if it amuses her I let it abe, but I'm none going to have more stuff poured into her
But surely
you believe in what I said, that God gave her life, and ordered what kind of life it was to be
I believe what I see, and no more. That's what I believe, young woman. I don't believe all I hear -- no! not by a big deal. I did hear a young lass make an ado about knowing where we lived, and coming to see us. And my wench here thought a deal about it, and flushed up many a time, when hoo little knew as I was looking at her, at the sound of a strange step. But hoo's come at last,-- and hoo's welcome, as long as hoo'll keep from preaching on what hoo knows nought about
Don't be vexed wi' him -- there's many a one thinks like him; many and many a one here. If yo' could hear them speak, yo'd not be shocked at him; he's a rare good man, is father -- but oh
what he says at times makes me long to die more than ever, for I want to know so many things, and am so tossed about wi' wonder
Poor wench -- poor old wench,-- I'm loth to vex thee, I am; but a man mun speak out for the truth, and when I see the world going all wrong at this time o' day, bothering itself wi' things it knows nought about, and leaving undone all the things that lie in disorder close at its hand -- why, I say, leave a' this talk about religion alone, and set to work on what yo' see and know. That's my creed. It's simple, and not far to fetch, nor hard to work
Don't think hardly on him -- he's a good man, he is. I sometimes think I shall be moped wi' sorrow even in the City of God, if father is not there
But you will be there, father! you shall! Oh! my heart
hush
I'll go to bed,-- it's best place; but
yo'll come again,-- I know yo' will -- but just say it
I could wish there were a God, if it were only to ask Him to bless thee
Have you met with a servant, dear
No, mamma; that Anne Buckley would never have done
Suppose I try
Everybody else has had their turn at this great difficulty. Now let me try. I may be the Cinderella to put on the slipper after all
What would you do, papa? How would you set about it
Why, I would apply to some good house-mother to recommend me one known to herself or her servants
Very good. But we must first catch our house-mother
You have caught her. Or rather she is coming into the snare, and you will catch her to-morrow, if you're skilful
What do you mean, Mr. Hale
Why, my paragon pupil (as Margaret calls him), has told me that his mother intends to call on Mrs. and Miss Hale to-morrow
Mrs. Thornton
The mother of whom he spoke to us
Mrs. Thornton; the only mother he has, I believe
I shall like to see her. She must be an uncommon person, her mother added. 'Perhaps she may have a relation who might suit us, and be glad of our place. She sounded to be such a careful economical person, that I should like any one out of the same family
My dear
Pray don't go off on that idea. I fancy Mrs. Thornton is as haughty and proud in her way, as our little Margaret here is in hers, and that she completely ignores that old time of trial, and poverty, and economy, of which he speaks so openly. I am sure, at any rate, she would not like strangers to know anything about It
Take notice that is not my kind of haughtiness, papa, if I have any at all; which I don't agree to, though you're always accusing me of it
I don't know positively that it is hers either; but from little things I have gathered from him, I fancy so
Well -- I suppose we must
killed off' all her acquaintances, who might now put themselves to trouble and expense in their turn. Yet Crampton was too far off for her to walk; and she had repeatedly questioned her son as to whether his wish that she should call on the Hales was strong enough to bear the expense of cab-hire. She would have been thankful if it had not; for, as she said, 'she saw no use in making up friendships and intimacies with all the teachers and masters in Milton; why, he would be wanting her to call on Fanny's dancing-master's wife, the next thing
And so I would, mother, if Mr. Mason and his wife were friend less in a strange place, like the Hales
Oh! you need not speak so hastily. I am going to-morrow. I only wanted you exactly to understand about it
If you are going to-morrow, I shall order horses
Nonsense, John. One would think you were made of money
Not quite, yet. But about the horses I'm determined. The last time you were out in a cab, you came home with a headache from the jolting
I never complained of it, I'm sure
No. My mother is not given to complaints
But so much the more I have to watch over you. Now as for Fanny there, a little hardship would do her good
She is not made of the same stuff as you are, John. She could not bear it
love
dear
Fanny dear I shall have horses to the carriage to-day, to go and call on these Hales. Should not you go and see nurse? It's in the same direction, and she's always so glad to see you. You could go on there while I am at Mrs. Hale's
Oh! mamma, it's such a long way, and I am so tired
With what
I don't know -- the weather, I think. It is so relaxing. Couldn't you bring nurse here, mamma? The carriage could fetch her, and she could spend the rest of the day here, which I know she would like
It will be a long way for her to walk back at night
Oh, but I will send her home in a cab. I never thought of her walking
Mother! I need hardly say, that if there is any little thing that could serve Mrs. Hale as an invalid, you will offer it, I'm sure
If I can find it out, I will. But I have never been ill myself, so I am not much up to invalids' fancies
Well! here is Fanny then, who is seldom without an ailment. She will be able to suggest something, perhaps -- won't you, Fan
I have not always an ailment
and I am not going with mamma. I have a headache to-day, and I shan't go out
Fanny! I wish you to go
It will do you good, instead of harm. You will oblige me by going, without my saying anything more about it
You will oblige me
John always speaks as if I fancied I was ill, and I am sure I never do fancy any such thing. Who are these Hales that he makes such a fuss about
Fanny, don't speak so of your brother. He has good reasons of some kind or other, or he would not wish us to go. Make haste and put your things on
these Hales
Who are they, that he is so anxious we should pay them all this attention
Flimsy, useless work
lace
of that old English point which has not been made for this seventy years, and which cannot be bought. It must have been an heir-loom, and shows that she had ancestors
I suppose you are not musical
as I see no piano
I am fond of hearing good music; I cannot play well myself; and papa and mamma don't care much about it; so we sold our old piano when we came here
I wonder how you can exist without one. It almost seems to me a necessary of life
Fifteen shillings a week, and three saved out of them
But she must have been very young. She probably has forgotten her own personal experience. But she must know of those days
You have good concerts here, I believe
Oh, yes! Delicious! Too crowded, that is the worst. The directors admit so indiscriminately. But one is sure to hear the newest music there. I always have a large order to give to Johnson's, the day after a concert
Do you like new music simply for its newness, then
Oh; one knows it is the fashion in London, or else the singers would not bring it down here. You have been in London, of course
Yes
I have lived there for several years
Oh! London and the Alhambra are the two places I long to see
London and the Alhambra
Yes! ever since I read the Tales of the Alhambra. Don't you know them
I don't think I do. But surely, it is a very easy journey to London
Yes; but somehow
mamma has never been to London herself, and can't understand my longing. She is very proud of Milton; dirty, smoky place, as I feel it to be. I believe she admires it the more for those very qualities
If it has been Mrs. Thornton's home for some years, I can well understand her loving it
What are you saying about me, Miss Hale? May I inquire
Oh, mamma! we are only trying to account for your being so fond of Milton
Thank you
I do not feel that my very natural liking for the place where I was born and brought up,-- and which has since been my residence for some years, requires any accounting for
Do you know anything of Milton, Miss Hale? Have you seen any of our factories? our magnificent warehouses
No
I dare say, papa would have taken me before now if I had cared. But I really do not find much pleasure in going over manufactories
They are very curious places
but there is so much noise and dirt always. I remember once going in a lilac silk to see candles made, and my gown was utterly ruined
Very probably
I merely thought, that as strangers newly come to reside in a town which has risen to eminence in the country, from the character and progress of its peculiar business, you might have cared to visit some of the places where it is carried on; places unique in the kingdom, I am informed. If Miss Hale changes her mind and condescends to be curious as to the manufactures of Milton, I can only say I shall be glad to procure her admission to print-works, or reed-making, or the more simple operations of spinning carried on in my son's mill. Every improvement of machinery is, I believe, to be seen there, in its highest perfection
I am so glad you don't like mills and manufactories, and all those kind of things
I think I should like to know all about them, if I were you
Fanny
we will he civil to these Hales: but don't form one of your hasty friendships with the daughter. She will do you no good, I see. The mother looks very ill, and seems a nice, quiet kind of person
I don't want to form any friendship with Miss Hale, mamma
I thought I was doing my duty by talking to her, and trying to amuse her
Well! at any rate John must he satisfied now
I never knew why folk in the Bible cared for soft raiment afore. But it must be nice to go dressed as yo' do. It's different fro' common. Most fine folk tire my eyes out wi' their colours; but some how yours rest me. Where did ye get this frock
In London
London! Have yo' been in London
Tell me about it
I like to hear speak of the country and trees, and such like things
Oh, Bessy, I loved the home we have left so dearly! I wish you could see it. I cannot tell you half its beauty. There are great trees standing all about it, with their branches stretching long andlevel, and making a deep shade of rest even at noonday. And yet, though every leaf may seem still, there is a continual rushing sound of movement all around -- not close at hand. Then sometimes the turf is as soft and fine as velvet; and sometimes quite lush with the perpetual moisture of a little, hidden, tinkling brook near at hand. And then in other parts there are billowy ferns -- whole stretches of fern; some in the green shadow; some with long streaks of golden sunlight lying on them -- just like the sea
I have never seen the sea
But go on
Then, here and there, there are wide commons, high up as if above the very tops of the trees
I'm glad of that. I felt smothered like down below. When I have gone for an out, I've always wanted to get high up and see far away, and take a deep breath o' fulness in that air. I get smothered enough in Milton, and I think the sound yo' speak of among the trees, going on for ever and ever, would send me dazed; it's that made my head ache so in the mill. Now on these commons I reckon there is but little noise
No
nothing but here and there a lark high in the air. Sometimes I used to hear a farmer speaking sharp and loud to his servants; but it was so far away that it only reminded me pleasantly that other people were hard at work in some distant place, while I just sat on the heather and did nothing
I used to think once that if I could have a day of doing nothing, to rest me -- a day in some quiet place like that yo' speak on -- it would maybe set me up. But now I've had many days o' idleness, and I'm just as weary o' them as I was o' my work. Sometimes I'm so tired out I think I cannot enjoy heaven without a piece of rest first. I'm rather afeard o' going straight there without getting a good sleep in the grave to set me up
Don't be afraid, Bessy
God can give you more perfect rest than even idleness on earth, or the dead sleep of the grave can do
I wish father would not speak as he does. He means well, as I telled yo' yesterday, and tell yo' again and again. But yo' see, though I don't believe him a bit by day, yet by night -- when I'm in a fever, half-asleep and half-awake -- it comes back upon me -- oh! so bad! And I think, if this should be th' end of all, and if all I've been born for is just to work my heart and my life away, and to sicken i' this dree place, wi' them mill-noises in my ears for ever, until I could scream out for them to stop, and let me have a little piece o' quiet -- and wi' the fluff filling my lungs, until I thirst to death for one long deep breath o' the clear air yo' speak on -- and my mother gone, and I never able to tell her again how I loved her, and o' all my troubles -- I think if this life is th' end, and that there's no God to wipe away all tears from all eyes -- yo' wench, yo'!' said she, sitting up, and clutching violently, almost fiercely, at Margaret's hand, 'I could go mad, and kill yo', I could.' She fell back completely worn out with her passion. Margaret knelt down by her. 'Bessy -- we have a Father in Heaven
I know it! I know it
I'm very wicked. I've spoken very wickedly. Oh! don't be frightened by me and never come again. I would not harm a hair of your head. And
I believe, perhaps, more than yo' do o' what's to come. I read the book o' Revelations until I know it off by heart, and I never doubt when I'm waking, and in my senses, of all the glory I'm to come to
Don't let us talk of what fancies come into your head when you are feverish. I would rather hear something about what you used to do when you were well
I think I was well when mother died, but I have never been rightly strong sin' somewhere about that time. I began to work in a carding-room soon after, and the fluff got into my lungs and poisoned me
Fluff
Fluff
Little bits, as fly off fro' the cotton, when they're carding it, and fill the air till it looks all fine white dust. They say it winds round the lungs, and tightens them up. Anyhow, there's many a one as works in a carding-room, that falls into a waste, coughing and spitting blood, because they're just poisoned by the fluff
But can't it be helped
I dunno. Some folk have a great wheel at one end o' their carding-rooms to make a draught, and carry off th' dust; but that wheel costs a deal o' money -- five or six hundred pound, maybe, and brings in no profit; so it's but a few of th' masters as will put 'em up; and I've heard tell o' men who didn't like working places where there was a wheel, because they said as how it mad 'em hungry, at after they'd been long used to swallowing fluff, tone go without it, and that their wage ought to be raised if they were to work in such places. So between masters and men th' wheels fall through. I know I wish there'd been a wheel in our place, though
Did not your father know about it
Yes! And he were sorry. But our factory were a good one on the whole; and a steady likely set o' people; and father was afeard of letting me go to a strange place, for though yo' would na think it now, many a one then used to call me a gradely lass enough. And I did na like to be reckoned nesh and soft, and Mary's schooling were to be kept up, mother said, and father he were always liking to buy books, and go to lectures o' one kind or another -- all which took money -- so I just worked on till I shall ne'er get the whirr out o' my ears, or the fluff out o' my throat i' this world. That's all
How old are you
Nineteen, come July
And I too am nineteen
About Mary
I wanted to ask yo' to be a friend to her. She's seventeen, but she's th' last on us. And I don't want her to go to th' mill, and yet I dunno what she's fit for
She could not do
She could hardly undertake a servant's place, could she? We have an old faithful servant, almost a friend, who wants help, but who is very particular; and it would not be right to plague her with giving her any assistance that would really be an annoyance and an irritation
But even though she may not be exactly fitted to come and live with us as a servant -- and I don't know about that -- I will always try and be a friend to her for your sake, Bessy. And now I must go. I will come again as soon as I can; but if it should not be to-morrow, or the next day, or even a week or a fortnight hence, don't think I've forgotten you. I may be busy
I'll know yo' won't forget me again. I'll not mistrust yo' no more. But remember, in a week or a fortnight I may be dead and buried
I'll come as soon as I can, Bessy
Ay, that will I
Indeed, Margaret, you are growing fanciful! God knows I should be the first to take the alarm if your mother were really ill; we always saw when she had her headaches at Helstone, even without her telling us. She looks quite pale and white when she is ill; and now she has a bright healthy colour in her cheeks, just as she used to have when I first knew her
But, papa
do you know, I think that is the flush of pain
Nonsense, Margaret. I tell you, you are too fanciful. You are the person not well, I think. Send for the doctor to-morrow for yourself; and then, if it will make your mind easier, he can see your mother
Thank you, dear papa. It will make me happier, indeed
Poor Maria
I wish one could do right without sacrificing others. I shall hate this town, and myself too, if she ---- Pray, Margaret, does your mother often talk to you of the old places of Helstone, I mean
No, papa
Then, you see, she can't be fretting after them, eh? It has always been a comfort to me to think that your mother was so simple and open that I knew every little grievance she had. She never would conceal anything seriously affecting her health from me: would she, eh, Margaret? I am quite sure she would not. So don't let me hear of these foolish morbid ideas. Come, give me a kiss, and run off to bed
I was used To sleep at nights as sweetly as a child,-- Now if the wind blew rough, it made me start, And think of my poor boy tossing about Upon the roaring seas. And then I seemed To feel that it was hard to take him from me For such a little fault
Oh, Margaret, it was so windy last night! It came howling down the chimney in our room! I could not sleep. I never can when there is such a terrible wind. I got into a wakeful habit when poor Frederick was at sea; and now, even if I don't waken all at once, I dream of him in some stormy sea, with great, clear, glass-green walls of waves on either side his ship, but far higher than her very masts, curling over her with that cruel, terrible white foam, like some gigantic crested serpent. It is an old dream, but it always comes back on windy nights, till I am thankful to waken, sitting straight and stiff up in bed with my terror. Poor Frederick! He is on land now, so wind can do him no harm. Though I did think it might shake down some of those tall chimneys
Where is Frederick now, mamma? Our letters are directed to the care of Messrs. Barbour, at Cadiz, I know; but where is he himself
I can't remember the name of the place, but he is not called Hale; you must remember that, Margaret. Notice the F. D. in every corner of the letters. He has taken the name of Dickenson. I wanted him to have been called Beresford, to which he had a kind of right, but your father thought he had better not. He might be recognised, you know, if he were called by my name
Mamma
I was at Aunt Shaw's when it all happened; and I suppose I was not old enough to be told plainly about it. But I should like to know now, if I may -- if it does not give you too much pain to speak about it
Pain! No
Yet it is pain to think that perhaps I may never see my darling boy again. Or else he did right, Margaret. They may say what they like, but I have his own letters to show, and I'll believe him, though he is my son, sooner than any court-martial on earth. Go to my little japan cabinet, dear, and in the second left-hand drawer you will find a packet of letters
You see, Margaret, how from the very first he disliked Captain Reid. He was second lieutenant in the ship -- the Orion -- in which Frederick sailed the very first time. Poor little fellow, how well he looked in his midshipman's dress, with his dirk in his hand, cutting open all the newspapers with it as if it were a paper-knife! But this Mr. Reid, as he was then, seemed to take a dislike to Frederick from the very beginning. And then -- stay! these are the letters he wrote on board the Russell. When he was appointed to her, and found his old enemy Captain Reid in command, he did mean to bear all his tyranny patiently. Look! this is the letter. Just read it, Margaret. Where is it he says -- Stop --'my father may rely upon me, that I will bear with all proper patience everything that one officer and gentleman can take from another. But from my former knowledge of my present captain, I confess I look forward with apprehension to a long course of tyranny on board the Russell
But we did not receive this letter till long, long after we heard of the mutiny. Poor Fred! I dare say it was a comfort to him to write it even though he could not have known how to send it, poor fellow! And then we saw a report in the papers -- that's to say, long before Fred's letter reached us -- of an atrocious mutiny having broken out on board the Russell, and that the mutineers had remained in possession of the ship, which had gone off, it was supposed, to be a pirate; and that Captain Reid was sent adrift in a boat with some men -- officers or something -- whose names were all given, for they were picked up by a West-Indian steamer. Oh, Margaret! how your father and I turned sick over that list, when there was no name of Frederick Hale. We thought it must be some mistake; for poor Fred was such a fine fellow, only perhaps rather too passionate; and we hoped that the name of Carr, which was in the list, was a misprint for that of Hale -- newspapers are so careless. And towards post-time the next day, papa set off to walk to Southampton to get the papers; and I could not stop at home, so I went to meet him. He was very late -- much later than I thought he would have been; and I sat down under the hedge to wait for him. He came at last, his arms hanging loose down, his head sunk, and walking heavily along, as if every step was a labour and a trouble. Margaret, I see him now
Don't go on, mamma. I can understand it all
I think, Margaret
I am glad of it -- I am prouder of Frederick standing up against injustice, than if he had been simply a good officer
I am sure I am
Loyalty and obedience to wisdom and justice are fine; but it is still finer to defy arbitrary power, unjustly and cruelly used-not on behalf of ourselves, but on behalf of others more helpless
For all that, I wish I could see Frederick once more -- just once. He was my first baby, Margaret
It is six or seven years ago -- would they still prosecute him, mother? If he came and stood his trial, what would be the punishment? Surely, he might bring evidence of his great provocation
It would do no good
Some of the sailors who accompanied Frederick were taken, and there was a court-martial held on them on board the Amicia; I believed all they said in their defence, poor fellows, because it just agreed with Frederick's story -- but it was of no use
What happened to them, mamma
They were hung at the yard-arm
And the worst was that the court, in condemning them to death, said they had suffered themselves to be led astray from their duty by their superior officers
And Frederick was in South America for several years, was he not
Yes. And now he is in Spain. At Cadiz, or somewhere near it. If he comes to England he will be hung. I shall never see his face again -- for if he comes to England he will be hung
Thought fights with thought; out springs a spark of truth From the collision of the sword and shield
Margaret
we must return Mrs. Thornton's call. Your mother is not very well, and thinks she cannot walk so far; but you and I will go this afternoon
Did you consult the doctor, Margaret? Did you send for him
No, papa, you spoke of his corning to see me. Now I was well. But if I only knew of some good doctor, I would go this afternoon, and ask him to come, for I am sure mamma is seriously indisposed
Do you think she has any hidden complaint? Do you think she is really very ill? Has Dixon said anything? Oh, Margaret! I am haunted by the fear that our coming to Milton has killed her. My poor Maria
Oh, papa! don't imagine such things
She is not well, that is all. Many a one is not well for a time; and with good advice gets better and stronger than ever
But has Dixon said anything about her
No! You know Dixon enjoys making a mystery out of trifles; and she has been a little mysterious about mamma's health, which has alarmed me rather, that is all. Without any reason, I dare say. You know, papa, you said the other day I was getting fanciful
I hope and trust you are. But don't think of what I said then. I like you to be fanciful about your mother's health. Don't be afraid of telling me your fancies. I like to hear them, though, I dare say, I spoke as if I was annoyed. But we will ask Mrs. Thornton if she can tell us of a good doctor. We won't throw away our money on any but some one first-rate. Stay, we turn up this street
He told me he lived in Marlborough Street, I'm sure
Perhaps it is one of the economies he still practises, to live in a very small house. But here are plenty of people about; let me ask
How is Mr. Thornton
I was afraid he was not well, from his hurried note yesterday
My son is rarely ill; and when he is, he never speaks about it, or makes it an excuse for not doing anything. He told me he could not get leisure to read with you last night, sir. He regretted it, I am sure; he values the hours spent with you
I am sure they are equally agreeable to me
It makes me feel young again to see his enjoyment and appreciation of all that is fine in classical literature
I have no doubt the classics are very desirable for people who have leisure. But, I confess, it was against my judgment that my son renewed his study of them. The time and place in which he lives, seem to me to require all his energy and attention. Classics may do very well for men who loiter away their lives in the country or in colleges; but Milton men ought to have their thoughts and powers absorbed in the work of to-day. At least, that is my opinion
the pride that apes humility
But, surely, if the mind is too long directed to one object only, it will get stiff and rigid, and unable to take in many interests
I do not quite understand what you mean by a mind getting stiff and rigid. Nor do I admire those whirligig characters that are full of this thing to-day, to be utterly forgetful of it in their new interest to-morrow. Having many interests does not suit the life of a Milton manufacturer. It is, or ought to be, enough for him to have one great desire, and to bring all the purposes of his life to bear on the fulfilment of that
And that is
To hold and maintain a high, honourable place among the merchants of his country -- the men of his town. Such a place my son has earned for himself. Go where you will -- I don't say in England only, but in Europe -- the name of John Thornton of Milton is known and respected amongst all men of business. Of course, it is unknown in the fashionable circles
Idle gentlemen and ladies are not likely to know much of a Milton manufacturer, unless he gets into parliament, or marries a lord's daughter
You think you never heard of this wonderful son of mine, Miss Hale. You think I'm an old woman whose ideas are bounded by Milton, and whose own crow is the whitest ever seen
No
It may be true, that I was thinking I had hardly heard Mr. Thornton's name before I came to Milton. But since I have come here, I have heard enough to make me respect and admire him, and to feel how much justice and truth there is in what you have said of him
Who spoke to you of him
It was what Mr. Thornton said himself, that made us know the kind of man he was. Was it not, Margaret
My son is not the one to tell of his own doings. May I again ask you, Miss Hale, from whose account you formed your favourable opinion of him? A mother is curious and greedy of commendation of her children, you know
It was as much from what Mr. Thornton withheld of that which we had been told of his previous life by Mr. Bell,-- it was more that than what he said, that made us all feel what reason you have to be proud of him
Mr. Bell! What can he know of John? He, living a lazy life in a drowsy college. But I'm obliged to you, Miss Hale. Many a missy young lady would have shrunk from giving an old woman the pleasure of hearing that her son was well spoken of
Why
Why! because I suppose they might have consciences that told them how surely they were making the old mother into an advocate for them, in case they had any plans on the son's heart
I beg your pardon, madam. But I really am very much obliged to you for exonerating me from making any plans on Mr. Thornton's heart
Young ladies have, before now
I hope Miss Thornton is well
She is as well as she ever is. She is not strong
And Mr. Thornton? I suppose I may hope to see him on Thursday
I cannot answer for my son's engagements. There is some uncomfortable work going on in the town; a threatening of a strike. If so, his experience and judgment will make him much consulted by his friends. But I should think he could come on Thursday. At any rate, I am sure he will let you know if he cannot
A strike
What for? What are they going to strike for
For the mastership and ownership of other people's property
That is what they always strike for. If my son's work-people strike, I will only say they are a pack of ungrateful hounds. But I have no doubt they will
They are wanting higher wages, I suppose
That is the face of the thing. But the truth is, they want to be masters, and make the masters into slaves on their own ground. They are always trying at it; they always have it in their minds and every five or six years, there comes a struggle between masters and men. They'll find themselves mistaken this time, I fancy,-- a little out of their reckoning. If they turn out, they mayn't find it so easy to go in again. I believe, the masters have a thing or two in their heads which will teach the men not to strike again in a hurry, if they try it this time
Does it not make the town very rough
Of course it does. But surely you are not a coward, are you? Milton is not the place for cowards. I have known the time when I have had to thread my way through a crowd of white, angry men, all swearing they would have Makinson's blood as soon as he ventured to show his nose out of his factory; and he, knowing nothing of it, some one had to go and tell him, or he was a dead man, and it needed to be a woman,-- so I went. And when I had got in, I could not get out. It was as much as my life was worth. So I went up to the roof, where there were stones piled ready to drop on the heads of the crowd, if they tried to force the factory doors. And I would have lifted those heavy stones, and dropped them with as good an aim as the best man there, but that I fainted with the heat I had gone through. If you live in Milton, you must learn to have a brave heart, Miss Hale
I would do my best
I do not know whether I am brave or not till I am tried; but I am afraid I should be a coward
South country people are often frightened by what our Darkshire men and women only call living and struggling. But when you've been ten years among a people who are always owing their betters a grudge, and only waiting for an opportunity to pay it off, you'll know whether you are a coward or not, take my word for it
I am come partly to bring you a note from my mother, and partly to apologise for not keeping to my time yesterday. The note contains the address you asked for; Dr. Donaldson
Thank you
Yes; the fools will have a strike. Let them. It suits us well enough. But we gave them a chance. They think trade is flourishing as it was last year. We see the storm on the horizon and draw in our sails. But because we don't explain our reasons, they won't believe we're acting reasonably. We must give them line and letter for the way we choose to spend or save our money. Henderson tried a dodge with his men, out at Ashley, and failed. He rather wanted a strike; it would have suited his book well enough. So when the men came to ask for the five per cent. they are claiming, he told 'em he'd think about it, and give them his answer on the pay day; knowing all the while what his answer would be, of course, but thinking he'd strengthen their conceit of their own way. However, they were too deep for him, and heard something about the bad prospects of trade. So in they came on the Friday, and drew back their claim, and now he's obliged to go on working. But we Milton masters have to-day sent in our decision. We won't advance a penny. We tell them we may have to lower wages; but can't afford to raise. So here we stand, waiting for their next attack
And what will that be
I conjecture, a simultaneous strike. You will see Milton without smoke in a few days, I imagine, Miss Hale
But why
could you not explain what good reason you have for expecting a bad trade? I don't know whether I use the right words, but you will understand what I mean
Do you give your servants reasons for your expenditure, or your economy in the use of your own money? We, the owners of capital, have a right to choose what we will do with it
A human right
I beg your pardon, I did not hear what you said
I would rather not repeat it
it related to a feeling which I do not think you would share
Won't you try me
I said you had a human right. I meant that there seemed no reason but religious ones, why you should not do what you like with your own. 'I know we differ in our religious opinions; but don't you give me credit for having some, though not the same as yours
I do not think that I have any occasion to consider your special religious opinions in the affair. All I meant to say is, that there is no human law to prevent the employers from utterly wasting or throwing away all their money, if they choose; but that there are passages in the Bible which would rather imply -- to me at least -- that they neglected their duty as stewards if they did so. However I know so little about strikes, and rate of wages, and capital, and labour, that I had better not talk to a political economist like you
Nay, the more reason
I shall only be too glad to explain to you all that may seem anomalous or mysterious to a stranger; especially at a time like this, when our doings are sure to be canvassed by every scribbler who can hold a pen
Thank you
Of course, I shall apply to my father in the first instance for any information he can give me, if I get puzzled with living here amongst this strange society
You think it strange. Why
I don't know -- I suppose because, on the very face of it, I see two classes dependent on each other in every possible way, yet each evidently regarding the interests of the other as opposed to their own; I never lived in a place before where there were two sets of people always running each other down
Who have you heard running the masters down? I don't ask who you have heard abusing the men; for I see you persist in misunderstanding what I said the other day. But who have you heard abusing the masters
I am not fond of being catechised. I refuse to answer your question. Besides, it has nothing to do with the fact. You must take my word for it, that I have heard some people, or, it may be, only someone of the workpeople, speak as though it were the interest of the employers to keep them from acquiring money -- that it would make them too independent if they had a sum in the savings' bank
I dare say it was that man Higgins who told you all this
I heard, moreover, that it was considered to the advantage of the masters to have ignorant workmen -- not hedge-lawyers, as Captain Lennox used to call those men in his company who questioned and would know the reason for every order
You never were fond of schools, Margaret, or you would have seen and known before this, how much is being done for education in Milton
No
I know I do not care enough about schools. But the knowledge and the ignorance of which I was speaking, did not relate to reading and writing,-- the teaching or information one can give to a child. I am sure, that what was meant was ignorance of the wisdom that shall guide men and women. I hardly know what that is. But he -- that is, my informant -- spoke as if the masters would like their hands to be merely tall, large children -- living in the present moment -- with a blind unreasoning kind of obedience
In short, Miss Hale, it is very evident that your informant found a pretty ready listener to all the slander he chose to utter against the masters
I must confess that, although I have not become so intimately acquainted with any workmen as Margaret has, I am very much struck by the antagonism between the employer and the employed, on the very surface of things. I even gather this impression from what you yourself have from time to time said
hands
We will read Plato's Republic as soon as we have finished Homer
Well, in the Platonic year, it may fall out that we are all -- men women, and children -- fit for a republic: but give me a constitutional monarchy in our present state of morals and intelligence. In our infancy we require a wise despotism to govern us. Indeed, long past infancy, children and young people are the happiest under the unfailing laws of a discreet, firm authority. I agree with Miss Hale so far as to consider our people in the condition of children, while I deny that we, the masters, have anything to do with the making or keeping them so. I maintain that despotism is the best kind of government for them; so that in the hours in which I come in contact with them I must necessarily be an autocrat. I will use my best discretion -- from no humbug or philanthropic feeling, of which we have had rather too much in the North -- to make wise laws and come to just decisions in the conduct of my business -- laws and decisions which work for my own good in the first instance -- for theirs in the second; but I will neither be forced to give my reasons, nor flinch from what I have once declared to be my resolution. Let them turn out! I shall suffer as well as they: but at the end they will find I have not bated nor altered one jot
I dare say I am talking in great ignorance; but from the little I know, I should say that the masses were already passing rapidly into the troublesome stage which intervenes between childhood and manhood, in the life of the multitude as well as that of the individual. Now, the error which many parents commit in the treatment of the individual at this time is, insisting on the same unreasoning obedience as when all he had to do in the way of duty was, to obey the simple laws of "Come when you're called" and "Do as you're bid!" But a wise parent humours the desire for independent action, so as to become the friend and adviser when his absolute rule shall cease. If I get wrong in my reasoning, recollect, it is you who adopted the analogy
Very lately
I heard a story of what happened in Nuremberg only three or four years ago. A rich man there lived alone in one of the immense mansions which were formerly both dwellings and warehouses. It was reported that he had a child, but no one knew of it for certain. For forty years this rumour kept rising and falling -- never utterly dying away. After his death it was found to be true. He had a son -- an overgrown man with the unexercised intellect of a child, whom he had kept up in that strange way, in order to save him from temptation and error. But, of course, when this great old child was turned loose into the world, every bad counsellor had power over him. He did not know good from evil. His father had made the blunder of bringing him up in ignorance and taking it for innocence; and after fourteen months of riotous living, the city authorities had to take charge of him, in order to save him from starvation. He could not even use words effectively enough to be a successful beggar
I used the comparison (suggested by Miss Hale) of the position of the master to that of a parent; so I ought not to complain of your turning the simile into a weapon against me. But, Mr. Hale, when you were setting up a wise parent as a model for us, you said he humoured his children in their desire for independent action. Now certainly, the time is not come for the hands to have any independent action during business hours; I hardly know what you would mean by it then. And I say, that the masters would be trenching on the independence of their hands, in a way that I, for one, should not feel justified in doing, if we interfered too much with the life they lead out of the mills. Because they labour ten hours a-day for us, I do not see that we have any right to impose leading-strings upon them for the rest of their time. I value my own independence so highly that I can fancy no degradation greater than that of having another man perpetually directing and advising and lecturing me, or even planning too closely in any way about my actions. He might be the wisest of men, or the most powerful -- I should equally rebel and resent his interference I imagine this is a stronger feeling in the North of England that in the South
I beg your pardon, but is not that because there has been none of the equality of friendship between the adviser and advised classes? Because every man has had to stand in an unchristian and isolated position, apart from and jealous of his brother-man: constantly afraid of his rights being trenched upon
But
it seems to me that it makes all the difference in the world
You must grant me this one point. Given a strong feeling of independence in every Darkshire man, have I any right to obtrude my views, of the manner in which he shall act, upon another (hating it as I should do most vehemently myself), merely because he has labour to sell and I capital to buy
Not in the least
not in the least because of your labour and capital positions, whatever they are, but because you are a man, dealing with a set of men over whom you have, whether you reject the use of it or not, immense power, just because your lives and your welfare are so constantly and intimately interwoven. God has made us so that we must be mutually dependent. We may ignore our own dependence, or refuse to acknowledge that others depend upon us in more respects than the payment of weekly wages; but the thing must be, nevertheless. Neither you nor any other master can help yourselves. The most proudly independent man depends on those around him for their insensible influence on his character -- his life. And the most isolated of all your Darkshire Egos has dependants clinging to him on all sides; he cannot shake them off, any more than the great rock he resembles can shake off
Pray don't go into similes, Margaret; you have led us off once already
Just tell me, Miss Hale, are you yourself ever influenced -- no, that is not a fair way of putting it;-- but if you are ever conscious of being influenced by others, and not by circumstances, have those others been working directly or indirectly? Have they been labouring to exhort, to enjoin, to act rightly for the sake of example, or have they been simple, true men, taking up their duty, and doing it unflinchingly, without a thought of how their actions were to make this man industrious, that man saving? Why, if I were a workman, I should be twenty times more impressed by the knowledge that my master, was honest, punctual, quick, resolute in all his doings (and hands are keener spies even than valets), than by any amount of interference, however kindly meant, with my ways of going on out of work-hours. I do not choose to think too closely on what I am myself; but, I believe, I rely on the straightforward honesty of my hands, and the open nature of their opposition, in contra-distinction to the way in which the turnout will be managed in some mills, just because they know I scorn to take a single dishonourable advantage, or do an underhand thing myself It goes farther than a whole course of lectures on "Honesty is the Best Policy"-- life diluted into words. No, no! What the master is, that will the men be, without over-much taking thought on his part
That is a great admission
When I see men violent and obstinate in pursuit of their rights, I may safely infer that the master is the same that he is a little ignorant of that spirit which suffereth long, and is kind, and seeketh not her own
You are just like all strangers who don't understand the working of our system, Miss Hale
You suppose that our men are puppets of dough, ready to be moulded into any amiable form we please. You forget we have only to do with them for less than a third of their lives; and you seem not to perceive that the duties of a manufacturer are far larger and wider than those merely of an employer of labour: we have a wide commercial character to maintain, which makes us into the great pioneers of civilisation
It strikes me
that you might pioneer a little at home. They are a rough, heathenish set of fellows, these Milton men of yours
They are that
Rosewater surgery won't do for them. Cromwell would have made a capital mill-owner, Miss Hale. I wish we had him to put down this strike for us
Cromwell is no hero of mine
But I am trying to reconcile your admiration of despotism with your respect for other men's independence of character
I choose to be the unquestioned and irresponsible master of my hands, during the hours that they labour for me. But those hours past, our relation ceases; and then comes in the same respect for their independence that I myself exact
I spoke hastily to you once this evening, and I am afraid, rather rudely. But you know I am but an uncouth Milton manufacturer; will you forgive me
Certainly
Trust in that veiled hand, which leads None by the path that he would go; And always be for change prepared, For the world's law is ebb and flow
My father is from home, Dr. Donaldson; he has to attend a pupil at this hour. May I trouble you to come into his room down stairs
What is the matter with mamma? You will oblige me by telling the simple truth
I am the only child she has -- here, I mean. My father is not sufficiently alarmed, I fear; and, therefore, if there is any serious apprehension, it must be broken to him gently. I can do this. I can nurse my mother. Pray, speak, sir; to see your face, and not be able to read it, gives me a worse dread than I trust any words of yours will justify
My dear young lady, your mother seems to have a most attentive and efficient servant, who is more like her friend
I am her daughter, sir
But when I tell you she expressly desired that you might not be told
I am not good or patient enough to submit to the prohibition. Besides, I am sure you are too wise -- too experienced to have promised to keep the secret
Well
there you are right. I did not promise. In fact, I fear, the secret will be known soon enough without my revealing it
I thank you most truly, sir, for your confidence. That dread has haunted me for many weeks. It is a true, real agony. My poor, poor mother
Will there be much suffering
That we cannot tell. It depends on constitution; on a thousand things. But the late discoveries of medical science have given us large power of alleviation
My father
I do not know Mr. Hale. I mean, it is difficult to give advice. But I should say, bear on, with the knowledge you have forced me to give you so abruptly, till the fact which I could not with-hold has become in some degree familiar to you, so that you may, without too great an effort, be able to give what comfort you can to your father. Before then,-- my visits, which, of course, I shall repeat from time to time, although I fear I can do nothing but alleviate,-- a thousand little circumstances will have occurred to awaken his alarm, to deepen it -- so that he will be all the better prepared.-- Nay, my dear young lady -- nay, my dear -- I saw Mr. Thornton, and I honour your father for the sacrifice he has made, however mistaken I may believe him to be.-- Well, this once, if it will please you, my dear. Only remember, when I come again, I come as a friend. And you must learn to look upon me as such, because seeing each other -- getting to know each other at such times as these, is worth years of morning calls
That's what I call a fine girl
Oh, my God, my God! but this is terrible. How shall I bear it? Such a deadly disease! no hope! Oh, mamma, mamma, I wish I had never gone to aunt Shaw's, and been all those precious years away from you! Poor mamma! how much she must have borne! Oh, I pray thee, my God, that her sufferings may not be too acute, too dreadful. How shall I bear to see them? How can I bear papa's agony? He must not be told yet; not all at once. It would kill him. But I won't lose another moment of my own dear, precious mother
Why, Margaret, how strange you look! What is the matter
you have not been seeing Dr. Donaldson, and asking him any questions -- have you, child
He would not, surely, break his word to me, and
Oh yes, mamma, he did. I made him. It was I -- blame me
Margaret, it was very wrong of you. You knew I did not wish you to know
Oh, mamma! let me be your nurse. I will learn anything Dixon can teach me. But you know I am your child, and I do think I have a right to do everything for you
You don't know what you are asking
Yes, I do. I know a great deal more than you are aware of Let me be your nurse. Let me try, at any rate. No one has ever shall ever try so hard as I will do. It will be such a comfort, mamma
My poor child! Well, you shall try. Do you know, Margaret, Dixon and I thought you would quite shrink from me if you knew
Dixon thought
Dixon could not give me credit for enough true love -- for as much as herself! She thought, I suppose, that I was one of those poor sickly women who like to lie on rose leaves, and be fanned all day; Don't let Dixon's fancies come any more between you and me, mamma. Don't, please
Don't be angry with Dixon
No! I won't. I will try and be humble, and learn her ways, if you will only let me do all I can for you. Let me be in the first place, mother -- I am greedy of that. I used to fancy you would forget me while I was away at aunt Shaw's, and cry myself to sleep at nights with that notion in my head
And I used to think, how will Margaret bear our makeshift poverty after the thorough comfort and luxury in Harley Street, till I have many a time been more ashamed of your seeing our contrivances at Helstone than of any stranger finding them out
Oh, mamma! and I did so enjoy them. They were so much more amusing than all the jog-trot Harley Street ways. The wardrobe shelf with handles, that served as a supper-tray on grand occasions! And the old tea-chests stuffed and covered for ottomans! I think what you call the makeshift contrivances at dear Helstone were a charming part of the life there
I shall never see Helstone again, Margaret
While I was there, I was for ever wanting to leave it. Every place seemed pleasanter. And now I shall die far away from it. I am rightly punished
You must not talk so
He said you might live for years. Oh, mother! we will have you back at Helstone yet
No never! That I must take as a just penance. But, Margaret -- Frederick
Frederick! Frederick! Come to me. I am dying. Little first-born child, come to me once again
You shouldn't have been so curious, Miss, and then you wouldn't have needed to fret before your time. It would have come soon enough. And now, I suppose, you'll tell master, and a pretty household I shall have of you
No, Dixon
I will not tell papa. He could not bear it as I can
Ay! I knew how it would be. Now you'll waken your mamma, just after she's gone to sleep so quietly. Miss Margaret my dear, I've had to keep it down this many a week; and though I don't pretend I can love her as you do, yet I loved her better than any other man, woman, or child -- no one but Master Frederick ever came near her in my mind. Ever since Lady Beresford's maid first took me in to see her dressed out in white crape, and corn-ears, and scarlet poppies, and I ran a needle down into my finger, and broke it in, and she tore up her worked pocket-handkerchief, after they'd cut it out, and came in to wet the bandages again with lotion when she returned from the ball -- where she'd been the prettiest young lady of all -- I've never loved any one like her. I little thought then that I should live to see her brought so low. I don't mean no reproach to nobody. Many a one calls you pretty and handsome, and what not. Even in this smoky place, enough to blind one's eyes, the owls can see that. But you'll never be like your mother for beauty -- never; not if you live to be a hundred
Mamma is very pretty still. Poor mamma
Now don't ye set off again, or I shall give way at last' (whimpering). 'You'll never stand master's coming home, and questioning, at this rate. Go out and take a walk, and come in something like. Many's the time I've longed to walk it off -- the thought of what was the matter with her, and how it must all end
Oh, Dixon
how often I've been cross with you, not knowing what a terrible secret you had to bear
Bless you, child! I like to see you showing a bit of a spirit. It's the good old Beresford blood. Why, the last Sir John but two shot his steward down, there where he stood, for just telling him that he'd racked the tenants, and he'd racked the tenants till he could get no more money off them than he could get skin off a flint
Well, Dixon, I won't shoot you, and I'll try not to be cross again
You never have. If I've said it at times, it has always been to myself, just in private, by way of making a little agreeable conversation, for there's no one here fit to talk to. And when you fire up, you're the very image of Master Frederick. I could find in my heart to put you in a passion any day, just to see his stormy look coming like a great cloud over your face. But now you go out, Miss. I'll watch over missus; and as for master, his books are company enough for him, if he should come in
I will go
Bless her
Poor young lady! her clothes look shabby to what they did when she came to Helstone a year ago. Then she hadn't so much as a darned stocking or a cleaned pair of gloves in all her wardrobe. And now
There are briars besetting every path, Which call for patient care; There is a cross in every lot, And an earnest need for prayer
Hoo's rather down i' th' mouth in regard to spirits, but hoo's better in health. Hoo doesn't like this strike. Hoo's a deal too much set on peace and quietness at any price
This is th' third strike I've seen
Why do you strike
Striking is leaving off work till you get your own rate of wages, is it not? You must not wonder at my ignorance; where I come from I never heard of a strike
I wish I were there
But it's not for me to get sick and tired o' strikes. This is the last I'll see. Before it's ended I shall be in the Great City -- the Holy Jerusalem
Hoo's so full of th' life to come, hoo cannot think of th' present. Now I, yo' see, am bound to do the best I can here. I think a bird i' th' hand is worth two i' th' bush. So them's the different views we take on th' strike question
But
if the people struck, as you call it, where I come from, as they are mostly all field labourers, the seed would not be sown, the hay got in, the corn reaped
Well
Why
what would become of the farmers
I reckon they'd have either to give up their farms, or to give fair rate of wage
Suppose they could not, or would not do the last; they could not give up their farms all in a minute, however much they might wish to do so; but they would have no hay, nor corn to sell that year; and where would the money come from to pay the labourers' wages the next
I know nought of your ways down South. I have heerd they're a pack of spiritless, down-trodden men; welly clemmed to death; too much dazed wi' clemming to know when they're put upon. Now, it's not so here. We known when we're put upon; and we'en too much blood in us to stand it. We just take our hands fro' our looms, and say, "Yo' may clem us, but yo'll not put upon us, my masters!" And be danged to 'em, they shan't this time
I wish I lived down South
There's a deal to bear there
There are sorrows to bear everywhere. There is very hard bodily labour to be gone through, with very little food to give strength
But it's out of doors
And away from the endless, endless noise, and sickening heat
It's sometimes in heavy rain, and sometimes in bitter cold. A young person can stand it; but an old man gets racked with rheumatism, and bent and withered before his time; yet he must just work on the same, or else go to the workhouse
I thought yo' were so taken wi' the ways of the South country
So I am
I only mean, Bessy, there's good and bad in everything in this world; and as you felt the bad up here, I thought it was but fair you should know the bad down there
And yo' say they never strike down there
No
I think they have too much sense
An' I think
it's not that they've too much sense, but that they've too little spirit
O, father
what have ye gained by striking? Think of that first strike when mother died -- how we all had to clem -- you the worst of all; and yet many a one went in every week at the same wage, till all were gone in that there was work for; and some went beggars all their lives at after
Ay
That there strike was badly managed. Folk got into th' management of it, as were either fools or not true men. Yo'll see, it'll be different this time
But all this time you've not told me what you're striking for
Why, yo' see, there's five or six masters who have set themselves again paying the wages they've been paying these two years past, and flourishing upon, and getting richer upon. And now they come to us, and say we're to take less. And we won't. We'll just clem them to death first; and see who'll work for 'em then. They'll have killed the goose that laid 'em the golden eggs, I reckon
And so you plan dying, in order to be revenged upon them
No
I dunnot. I just look forward to the chance of dying at my post sooner than yield. That's what folk call fine and honourable in a soldier, and why not in a poor weaver-chap
But
a soldier dies in the cause of the Nation -- in the cause of others
My lass
yo're but a young wench, but don't yo' think I can keep three people -- that's Bessy, and Mary, and me -- on sixteen shilling a week? Dun yo' think it's for mysel' I'm striking work at this time? It's just as much in the cause of others as yon soldier -- only m'appen, the cause he dies for is just that of somebody he never clapt eyes on, nor heerd on all his born days, while I take up John Boucher's cause, as lives next door but one, wi' a sickly wife, and eight childer, none on 'em factory age; and I don't take up his cause only, though he's a poor good-for-nought, as can only manage two looms at a time, but I take up th' cause o' justice. Why are we to have less wage now, I ask, than two year ago
Don't ask me
I am very ignorant. Ask some of your masters. Surely they will give you a reason for it. It is not merely an arbitrary decision of theirs, come to without reason
Yo're just a foreigner, and nothing more
Much yo' know about it. Ask th' masters! They'd tell us to mind our own business, and they'd mind theirs. Our business being, yo' understand, to take the bated' wage, and be thankful, and their business to bate us down to clemming point, to swell their profits. That's what it is
Thornton
Mr. Thornton of Marlborough Street
Aye! Thornton o' Marlborough Mill, as we call him
He is one of the masters you are striving with, is he not? What sort of a master is he
Nay
I deny that. Mr. Thornton is plain enough, but he's not like a bulldog, with its short broad nose, and snarling upper lip
'em, I'll warrant. He's as slippery as an eel, he is. He's like a cat,-- as sleek, and cunning, and fierce. It'll never be an honest up and down fight wi' him, as it will be wi' Thornton. Thornton's as dour as a door-nail; an obstinate chap, every inch on him,-- th' oud bulldog
Poor Bessy
You sigh over it all. You don't like struggling and fighting as your father does, do you
No
I'm sick on it. I could have wished to have had other talk about me in my latter days, than just the clashing and clanging and clattering that has wearied a' my life long, about work and wages, and masters, and hands, and knobsticks
Poor wench! latter days be farred! Thou'rt looking a sight better already for a little stir and change. Beside, I shall be a deal here to make it more lively for thee
Tobacco-smoke chokes me
Then I'll never smoke no more i' th' house
But why didst thou not tell me afore, thou foolish wench
I reckon, he'll want a' the comfort he can get out o' either pipe or drink afore he's done
But does your father drink
No -- not to say drink
But what win ye have? There are days wi' you, as wi' other folk, I suppose, when yo' get up and go through th' hours, just longing for a bit of a change -- a bit of a fillip, as it were. I know I ha' gone and bought a four-pounder out o' another baker's shop to common on such days, just because I sickened at the thought of going on for ever wi' the same sight in my eyes, and the same sound in my ears, and the same taste i' my mouth, and the same thought (or no thought, for that matter) in my head, day after day, for ever. I've longed for to be a man to go spreeing, even it were only a tramp to some new place in search o' work. And father -- all men -- have it stronger in 'em than me to get tired o' sameness and work for ever. And what is 'em to do? It's little blame to them if they do go into th' gin-shop for to make their blood flow quicker, and more lively, and see things they never see at no other time -- pictures, and looking-glass, and such like. But father never was a drunkard, though maybe, he's got worse for drink, now and then. Only yo' see
Come, Bessy
I won't say you're exaggerating, because I don't know enough about it: but, perhaps, as you're not well, you're only looking on one side, and there is another and a brighter to be looked to
It's all well enough for yo' to say so, who have lived in pleasant green places all your life long, and never known want or care, or wickedness either, for that matter
Take care
how you judge, Bessy. I shall go home to my mother, who is so ill -- so ill, Bessy, that there's no outlet but death for her out of the prison of her great suffering; and yet I must speak cheerfully to my father, who has no notion of her real state, and to whom the knowledge must come gradually. The only person -- the only one who could sympathise with me and help me -- whose presence could comfort my mother more than any other earthly thing -- is falsely accused -- would run the risk of death if he came to see his dying mother. This I tell you -- only you, Bessy. You must not mention it. No other person in Milton -- hardly any other person in England knows. Have I not care? Do I not know anxiety, though I go about well-dressed, and have food enough? Oh, Bessy, God is just, and our lots are well portioned out by Him, although none but He knows the bitterness of our souls
I ask your pardon
Sometimes, when I've thought o' my life, and the little pleasure I've had in it, I've believed that, maybe, I was one of those doomed to die by the falling of a star from heaven; "And the name of the star is called Wormwood;' and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and men died of the waters, because they were made bitter." One can bear pain and sorrow better if one thinks it has been prophesied long before for one: somehow, then it seems as if my pain was needed for the fulfilment; otherways it seems all sent for nothing
Nay, Bessy -- think
God does not willingly afflict. Don't dwell so much on the prophecies, but read the clearer parts of the Bible
Let me come and read you some of my favourite chapters
Ay
Where is your sister
Gone fustian-cutting. I were loth to let her go; but somehow we must live; and th' Union can't afford us much
Now I must go. You have done me good, Bessy
I done you good
Yes. I came here very sad, and rather too apt to think my own cause for grief was the only one in the world. And now I hear how you have had to bear for years, and that makes me stronger
You won't do it if you think about it. But you'll only puzzle yourself if you do, that's one comfort
Nor I of myself. Good-bye
I wonder if there are many folk like her down South. She's like a breath of country air, somehow. She freshens me up above a bit. Who'd ha' thought that face -- as bright and as strong as the angel I dream of -- could have known the sorrow she speaks on? I wonder how she'll sin. All on us must sin. I think a deal on her, for sure. But father does the like, I see. And Mary even. It's not often hoo's stirred up to notice much
My heart revolts within me, and two voices Make themselves audible within my bosom
So your mother is tired, and gone to bed early! I'm afraid, such a thundery day was not the best in the world for the doctor to see her. What did he say? Dixon tells me he spoke to you about her
He does not think her seriously ill
Not at present; she needs care, he says; he was very kind, and said he would call again, and see how his medicines worked
Only care -- he did not recommend change of air?-- he did not say this smoky town was doing her any harm, did he, Margaret
No! not a word
He was anxious, I think
Doctors have that anxious manner; it's professional
This letter is from Aunt Shaw, papa. She has got to Naples, and finds it too hot, so she has taken apartments at Sorrento. But I don't think she likes Italy
He did not say anything about diet, did he
It was to be nourishing, and digestible. Mamma's appetite is pretty good, I think
Yes! and that makes it all the more strange he should have thought of speaking about diet
I asked him, papa
Aunt Shaw says, she has sent me some coral ornaments, papa; but
she's afraid the Milton Dissenters won't appreciate them. She has got all her ideas of Dissenters from the Quakers, has not she
If ever you hear or notice that your mother wishes for anything, be sure you let me know. I am so afraid she does not tell me always what she would like. Pray, see after that girl Mrs. Thornton named. If we had a good, efficient house-servant, Dixon could be constantly with her, and I'd answer for it we'd soon set her up amongst us, if care will do it. She's been very much tired of late, with the hot weather, and the difficulty of getting a servant. A little rest will put her quite to rights -- eh, Margaret
I hope so
Come; if you look so pale as this, I must rouge you up a little. Take care of yourself, child, or you'll be wanting the doctor next
She's awake now, Margaret. She quite smiled as she saw me standing by her. Just her old smile. And she says she feels refreshed, and ready for tea. Where's the note for her? She wants to see it. I'll read it to her while you make tea
Nay, Margaret? if she wishes it, I'm sure we'll both go willingly. She never would wish it unless she felt herself really stronger -- really better than we thought she was, eh, Margaret
Eh! Margaret
I do think she is better since last night
Her eyes look brighter, and her complexion clearer
God bless you
But is it true? Yesterday was so sultry every one felt ill. It was a most unlucky day for Mr. Donaldson to see her on
Well, mother
who have accepted your invitations for the twenty-first
Fanny, where are the notes? The Slicksons accept, Collingbrooks accept, Stephenses accept, Browns decline. Hales -- father and daughter come,-- mother too great an invalid -- Macphersons come, and Mr. Horsfall, and Mr. Young. I was thinking of asking the Porters, as the Browns can't come
Very good. Do you know, I'm really afraid Mrs. Hale is very far from well, from what Dr. Donaldson says
It's strange of them to accept a dinner-invitation if she's very ill
I didn't say very ill
I only said very far from well. They may not know it either
Very probably they are quite aware of what you said yesterday, John -- of the great advantage it would be to them -- to Mr. Hale, I mean, to be introduced to such people as the Stephenses and the Collingbrooks
I'm sure that motive would not influence them. No! I think I understand how it is
John
How you profess to understand these Hales, and how you never will allow that we can know anything about them. Are they really so very different to most people one meets with
They do not seem to me out of the common way
He appears a worthy kind of man enough; rather too simple for trade -- so it's perhaps as well he should have been a clergyman first, and now a teacher. She's a bit of a fine lady, with her invalidism; and as for the girl -- she's the only one who puzzles me when I think about her,-- which I don't often do. She seems to have a great notion of giving herself airs; and I can't make out why. I could almost fancy she thinks herself too good for her company at times. And yet they're not rich, from all I can hear they never have been
And she's not accomplished, mamma. She can't play
Go on, Fanny. What else does she want to bring her up to your standard
Nay! John
that speech of Fanny's did no harm. I myself heard Miss Hale say she could not play. If you would let us alone, we could perhaps like her, and see her merits
I'm sure I never could
Mother
I wish you would like Miss Hale
Why
You're never thinking of marrying her?-- a girl without a penny
She would never have me
No, I don't think she would
She laughed in my face, when I praised her for speaking out something Mr. Bell had said in your favour. I liked the girl for doing it so frankly, for it made me sure she had no thought of you; and the next minute she vexed me so by seeming to think ---- Well, never mind! Only you're right in saying she's too good an opinion of herself to think of you. The saucy jade! I should like to know where she'd find a better
Well, as I'm just as much convinced of the truth of what you have been saying as you can be; and as I have no thought or expectation of ever asking her to be my wife, you'll believe me for the future that I'm quite disinterested in speaking about her. I foresee trouble for that girl -- perhaps want of motherly care -- and I only wish you to be ready to be a friend to her, in case she needs one. Now, Fanny
I trust you have delicacy enough to understand, that it is as great an injury to Miss Hale as to me -- in fact, she would think it a greater -- to suppose that I have any reason, more than I now give, for begging you and my mother to show her every kindly attention
I cannot forgive her her pride
I will befriend her, if there is need, for your asking, John. I would befriend Jezebel herself if you asked me. But this girl, who turns up her nose at us all -- who turns up her nose at you
Nay, mother; I have never yet put myself, and I mean never to put myself, within reach of her contempt
Contempt, indeed
Don't go on speaking of Miss Hale, John, if I've to be kind to her. When I'm with her, I don't know if I like or dislike her most; but when I think of her, and hear you talk of her, I hate her. I can see she's given herself airs to you as well as if you'd told me out
And if she has
I'm not a lad, to be cowed by a proud look from a woman, or to care for her misunderstanding me and my position. I can laugh at it
To be sure! and at her too, with her fine notions and haughty tosses
I only wonder why you talk so much about her, then
I'm sure, I'm tired enough of the subject
Well
Suppose we find some more agreeable subject. What do you say to a strike, by way of something pleasant to talk about
Have the hands actually turned out
Hamper's men are actually out. Mine are working out their week, through fear of being prosecuted for breach of contract I'd have had every one of them up and punished for it, that left his work before his time was out
The law expenses would have been more than the hands them selves were worth -- a set of ungrateful naughts
To be sure. But I'd have shown them how I keep my word, and how I mean them to keep theirs. They know me by this time. Slickson's men are off -- pretty certain he won't spend money in getting them punished. We're in for a turn-out, mother
I hope there are not many orders in hand
Of course there are. They know that well enough. But they don't quite understand all, though they think they do
What do you mean, John
Why
the Americans are getting their yarns so into the general market, that our only chance is producing them at a lower rate. If we can't, we may shut up shop at once, and hands and masters go alike on tramp. Yet these fools go back to the prices paid three years ago -- nay, some of their leaders quote Dickinson's prices now -- though they know as well as we do that, what with fines pressed out of their wages as no honourable man would extort them, and other ways which I for one would scorn to use, the real rate of wage paid at Dickinson's is less than at ours. Upon my word, mother, I wish the old combination-laws were in force. It is too bad to find out that fools -- ignorant wayward men like these -- just by uniting their weak silly heads, are to rule over the fortunes of those who bring all the wisdom that knowledge and experience, and often painful thought and anxiety, can give. The next thing will be -- indeed, we're all but come to it now -- that we shall have to go and ask -- stand hat in hand -- and humbly ask the secretary of the Spinner' Union to be so kind as to furnish us with labour at their own price. That's what they want -- they, who haven't the sense to see that, if we don't get a fair share of the profits to compensate us for our wear and tear here in England, we can move off to some other country; and that, what with home and foreign competition, we are none of us likely to make above a fair share, and may be thankful enough if we can get that, in an average number of years
Can't you get hands from Ireland? I wouldn't keep these fellows a day. I'd teach them that I was master, and could employ what servants I liked
Yes! to be sure, I can; and I will, too, if they go on long. It will be trouble and expense, and I fear there will be some danger; but I will do it, rather than give in
If there is to be all this extra expense, I'm sorry we're giving a dinner just now
So am I,-- not because of the expense, but because I shall have much to think about, and many unexpected calls on my time. But we must have had Mr. Horsfall, and he does not stay in Milton long. And as for the others, we owe them dinners, and it's all one trouble
Once for all, they shall know whom they have got to deal with. I can give them a fortnight,-- no more. If they don't see their madness before the end of that time, I must have hands from Ireland. I believe it's Slickson's doing,-- confound him and his dodges! He thought he was overstocked; so he seemed to yield at first, when the deputation came to him,-- and of course, he only confirmed them in their folly, as he meant to do. That's where it spread from
As angels in some brighter dreams Call to the soul when man doth sleep, So some strange thoughts transcend our wonted themes, And into glory peep
Then you think you shall wear your white silk. Are you sure it will fit? It's nearly a year since Edith was married
Oh yes, mamma! Mrs. Murray made it, and it's sure to be right; it may be a straw's breadth shorter or longer-waisted, according to my having grown fat or thin. But I don't think I've altered in the least
Hadn't you better let Dixon see it? It may have gone yellow with lying by
If you like, mamma. But if the worst comes to the worst, I've a very nice pink gauze which aunt Shaw gave me, only two or three months before Edith was married. That can't have gone yellow
No! but it may have faded
Well! then I've a green silk. I feel more as if it was the embarrassment of riches
I wish I knew what you ought to wear
Shall I go and put them on one after another, mamma, and then you could see which you liked best
But -- yes! perhaps that will be best
Dear! and are you going to dine at Thornton's at Marlborough Mills
Yes, Bessy. Why are you so surprised
Oh, I dunno. But they visit wi' a' th' first folk in Milton
And you don't think we're quite the first folk in Milton, eh, Bessy
Well
yo' see, they thinken a deal o' money here and I reckon yo've not getten much
No
that's very true. But we are educated people, and have lived amongst educated people. Is there anything so wonderful, in our being asked out to dinner by a man who owns himself inferior to my father by coming to him to be instructed? I don't mean to blame Mr. Thornton. Few drapers' assistants, as he was once, could have made themselves what he is
But can yo' give dinners back, in yo'r small house? Thornton's house is three times as big
Well, I think we could manage to give Mr. Thornton a dinner back, as you call it. Perhaps not in such a large room, nor with so many people. But I don't think we've thought about it at all in that way
I never thought yo'd be dining with Thorntons
Why, the mayor hissel' dines there; and the members of Parliament and all
But them ladies dress so grand
Thank You, Bessy, for thinking so kindly about my looking nice among all the smart people. But I've plenty of grand gowns,-- a week ago, I should have said they were far too grand for anything I should ever want again. But as I'm to dine at Mr. Thornton's, and perhaps to meet the mayor, I shall put on my very best gown, you may be sure
What win yo' wear
White silk
That'll do
Oh! I'll be fine enough, if that will save me from being looked down upon in Milton
I wish I could see you dressed up
Nonsense, Bessy
Nay, Bessy
it was but a dream
And why might na I dream a dream in my affliction as well as others? Did not many a one i' the Bible? Ay, and see visions too! Why, even my father thinks a deal o' dreams! I tell yo' again, I saw yo' as plainly, coming swiftly towards me, wi' yo'r hair blown back wi' the very swiftness o' the motion, just like the way it grows, a little standing off like; and the white shining dress on yo've getten to wear. Let me come and see yo' in it. I want to see yo' and touch yo' as in very deed yo' were in my dream
My dear Bessy, it is quite a fancy of yours
Oh Bessy! you may come and welcome; but don't talk so -- it really makes me sorry. It does indeed
Let us talk about it sometimes, if you think it true. But not now. Tell me, has your father turned out
Ay
He and many another,-- all Hamper's men,-- and many a one besides. Th' women are as bad as th' men, in their savageness, this time. Food is high,-- and they mun have food for their childer, I reckon. Suppose Thorntons sent 'em their dinner out,-- th' same money, spent on potatoes and meal, would keep many a crying babby quiet, and hush up its mother's heart for a bit
Don't speak so
You'll make me feel wicked and guilty in going to this dinner
No
Some's pre-elected to sumptuous feasts, and purple and fine linen,-- may be yo're one on 'em. Others toil and moil all their lives long -- and the very dogs are not pitiful in our days, as they were in the days of Lazarus. But if yo' ask me to cool yo'r tongue wi' th' tip of my finger, I'll come across the great gulf to yo' just for th' thought o' what yo've been to me here
Bessy! you're very feverish! I can tell it in the touch of your hand, as well as in what you're saying. It won't be division enough, in that awful day, that some of us have been beggars here, and some of us have been rich,-- we shall not be judged by that poor accident, but by our faithful following of Christ
Yo'd ha' been deaved out o' yo'r five wits, as well as me, if yo'd had one body after another coming in to ask for father, and staying to tell me each one their tale. Some spoke o' deadly hatred, and made my blood run cold wi' the terrible things they said o' th' masters,-- but more, being women, kept plaining, plaining (wi' the tears running down their cheeks, and never wiped away, nor heeded), of the price o' meat, and how their childer could na sleep at nights for th' hunger
And do they think the strike will mend this
They say so
They do say trade has been good for long, and the masters has made no end o' money; how much father doesn't know, but, in course, th' Union does; and, as is natural, they wanten their share o' th' profits, now that food is getting dear; and th' Union says they'll not be doing their duty if they don't make the masters give 'em their share. But masters has getten th' upper hand somehow; and I'm feared they'll keep it now and evermore. It's like th' great battle o' Armageddon, the way they keep on, grinning and fighting at each other, till even while they fight, they are picked off into the pit
Ay! and I'll fight on too; and I'll get it this time. It'll not take long for to make 'em give in, for they've getten a pretty lot of orders, all under contract; and they'll soon find out they'd better give us our five per cent than lose the profit they'll gain; let alone the fine for not fulfilling the contract. Aha, my masters! I know who'll win
The twenty-first -- that's Thursday week. I may come and see yo' dressed for Thornton's, I reckon. What time is yo'r dinner
Thornton's! Ar' t' going to dine at Thornton's? Ask him to give yo' a bumper to the success of his orders. By th' twenty-first, I reckon, he'll be pottered in his brains how to get 'em done in time. Tell him, there's seven hundred'll come marching into Marlborough Mills, the morning after he gives the five per cent, and will help him through his contract in no time. You'll have 'em all there. My master, Hamper. He's one o' th' oud-fashioned sort. Ne'er meets a man bout an oath or a curse; I should think he were going to die if he spoke me civil; but arter all, his bark's waur than his bite, and yo' may tell him one o' his turn-outs said so, if yo' like. Eh! but yo'll have a lot of prize mill-owners at Thornton's! I should like to get speech o' them, when they're a bit inclined to sit still after dinner, and could na run for the life on 'em. I'd tell 'em my mind. I'd speak up again th' hard way they're driving on us
Good-bye
Good-bye, Bessy! I shall look to see you on the twenty-first, if you're well enough
Hou'd up, man. Thy lile Jack shall na' clem. I ha' getten brass, and we'll go buy the chap a sup o' milk an' a good four-pounder this very minute. What's mine's thine, sure enough, ithou's' t i' want. Only, dunnot lose heart, man
I lay yo' my heart and soul we'll win for a' this: it's but bearing on one more week, and yo just see th' way th' masters 'll come round, praying on us to come back to our mills. An' th' Union,-- that's to say, I -- will take care yo've enough for th' childer and th' missus. So dunnot turn faint-heart, and go to th' tyrants a-seeking work
Yo' know well, that a worser tyrant than e'er th' masters were says "Clem to death, and see 'em a' clem to death, ere yo' dare go again th' Union." Yo' know it well, Nicholas, for a' yo're one on 'em. Yo' may be kind hearts, each separate; but once banded together, yo've no more pity for a man than a wild hunger-maddened wolf
So help me God! man alive -- if I think not I'm doing best for thee, and for all on us. If I'm going wrong when I think I'm going right, it's their sin, who ha' left me where I am, in my ignorance. I ha' thought till my brains ached,-- Beli' me, John, I have. An' I say again, there's no help for us but having faith i' th' Union. They'll win the day, see if they dunnot
I never thought to hear father call on God again. But yo' heard him say, "So help me God
Yes
Let me bring you what money I can spare,-- let me bring you a little food for that poor man's children. Don't let them know it comes from any one but your father. It will be but little
My heart's drained dry o' tears
'em as sore as e'er it did Solomon. I can't make it out. Perhaps it's as well such a one as Boucher has th' Union to see after him. But I'd just like for to see th' mean as make th' Union, and put 'em one by one face to face wi' Boucher. I reckon, if they heard him, they'd tell him (if I cotched 'em one by one), he might go back and get what he could for his work, even if it weren't so much as they ordered
Besides
It's nout
It's not death yet. I had a fearfu' night wi' dreams -- or somewhat like dreams, for I were wide awake -- and I'm all in a swounding daze to-day,-- only yon poor chap made me alive again. No! it's not death yet, but death is not far off. Ay! Cover me up, and I'll may be sleep, if th' cough will let me. Good night -- good afternoon, m'appen I should say -- but th' light is dim an' misty to-day
Old and young, boy, let 'em all eat, I have it; Let 'em have ten tire of teeth a-piece, I care not
And can your factory friend come on Thursday to see you dressed
She was so ill I never thought of asking her
Dear! Everybody is ill now, I think
But it must be very sad to be ill in one of those little back streets
It's bad enough here. What could you do for her, Margaret? Mr. Thornton has sent me some of his old port wine since you went out. Would a bottle of that do her good, think you
No, mamma! I don't believe they are very poor,-- at least, they don't speak as if they were; and, at any rate, Bessy's illness is consumption -- she won't want wine. Perhaps, I might take her a little preserve, made of our dear Helstone fruit. No! there's another family to whom I should like to give -- Oh mamma, mamma! how am I to dress up in my finery, and go off and away to smart parties, after the sorrow I have seen to-day
After all, we may have been doing wrong. It was only the last time Mr. Thornton was here that he said, those were no true friends who helped to prolong the struggle by assisting the turn outs. And this Boucher-man was a turn-out, was he not
But I will go again, and see the man himself
I hardly know as yet how to compare one of these houses with our Helstone cottages. I see furniture here which our labourers would never have thought of buying, and food commonly used which they would consider luxuries; yet for these very families there seems no other resource, now that their weekly wages are stopped, but the pawn-shop. One had need to learn a different language, and measure by a different standard, up here in Milton
Miss Hale looks well, ma'am,-- doesn't she? Mrs. Shaw's coral couldn't have come in better. It just gives the right touch of colour, ma'am. Otherwise, Miss Margaret, you would have been too pale
Oh, Margaret! how I should like to be going with you to one of the old Barrington assemblies,-- taking you as Lady Beresford used to take me
I would rather stay at home with you,-- much rather, mamma
Nonsense, darling! Be sure you notice the dinner well. I shall like to hear how they manage these things in Milton. Particularly the second course, dear. Look what they have instead of game
My son was engaged up to the last moment on business. He will be here directly, Mr. Hale. May I beg you to take a seat
Don't you find such close neighbourhood to the mill rather unpleasant at times
Never. I am not become so fine as to desire to forget the source of my son's wealth and power. Besides, there is not such another factory in Milton. One room alone is two hundred and twenty square yards
I meant that the smoke and the noise -- the constant going out and coming in of the work-people, might be annoying
I agree with you, Mr. Hale
There is a continual smell of steam, and oily machinery -- and the noise is perfectly deafening
I have heard noise that was called music far more deafening. The engine-room is at the street-end of the factory; we hardly hear it, except in summer weather, when all the windows are open; and as for the continual murmur of the work-people, it disturbs me no more than the humming of a hive of bees. If I think of it at all, I connect it with my son, and feel how all belongs to him, and that his is the head that directs it. Just now, there are no sounds to come from the mill; the hands have been ungrateful enough to turn out, as perhaps you have heard. But the very business (of which I spoke, when you entered), had reference to the steps he is going to take to make them learn their place
I could see you were on our side in our discussion at dinner,-- were you not, Miss Hale
Certainly. But then I know so little about it. I was surprised, however, to find from what Mr. Horsfall said, that there were others who thought in so diametrically opposite a manner, as the Mr. Morison he spoke about. He cannot be a gentleman -- is he
I am not quite the person to decide on another's gentlemanliness, Miss Hale. I mean, I don't quite understand your application of the word. But I should say that this Morison is no true man. I don't know who he is; I merely judge him from Mr. Horsfall's account
I suspect my "gentleman" includes your "true man
And a great deal more, you would imply. I differ from you. A man is to me a higher and a completer being than a gentleman
What do you mean
We must understand the words differently
I take it that "gentleman" is a term that only describes a person in his relation to others; but when we speak of him as "a man," we consider him not merely with regard to his fellow-men, but in relation to himself,-- to life -- to time -- to eternity. A cast-away lonely as Robinson Crusoe -- a prisoner immured in a dungeon for life -- nay, even a saint in Patmos, has his endurance, his strength, his faith, best described by being spoken of as "a man." I am rather weary of this word "gentlemanly," which seems to me to be often inappropriately used, and often, too, with such exaggerated distortion of meaning, while the full simplicity of the noun "man," and the adjective "manly" are unacknowledged -- that I am induced to class it with the cant of the day
That has been done
All those arrangements have been made
I take the risk. You need not join in it unless you choose
I'm not afraid of anything so dastardly as incendiarism. We are open enemies; and I can protect myself from any violence that I apprehend. And I will assuredly protect all others who come to me for work. They know my determination by this time, as well and as fully as you do
A Milton lady
No! from the south of England -- Hampshire, I believe
Who is that fine distinguished-looking girl? a sister of Mr. Horsfall's
Oh dear, no! That is Mr. Hale, her father, talking now to Mr. Stephens. He gives lessons; that is to say, he reads with young men. My brother John goes to him twice a week, and so he begged mamma to ask them here, in hopes of getting him known. I believe, we have some of their prospectuses, if you would like to have one
Mr. Thornton! Does he really find time to read with a tutor, in the midst of all his business,-- and this abominable strike in hand as well
On earth is known to none The smile that is not sister to a tear
kilted up to her knee
I rather think Thornton is not quite easy in his mind about this strike. He seemed very anxious to-night
I should wonder if he were not. But he spoke with his usual coolness to the others, when they suggested different things, just before we came away
So he did after dinner as well. It would take a good deal to stir him from his cool manner of speaking; but his face strikes me as anxious
I should be, if I were he. He must know of the growing anger and hardly smothered hatred of his workpeople, who all look upon him as what the Bible calls a "hard man,"-- not so much unjust as unfeeling; clear in judgment, standing upon his "rights" as no human being ought to stand, considering what we and all our petty rights are in the sight of the Almighty. I am glad you think he looks anxious. When I remember Boucher's half mad words and ways, I cannot bear to think how coolly Mr. Thornton spoke
In the first place, I am not so convinced as you are about that man Boucher's utter distress; for the moment, he was badly off, I don't doubt. But there is always a mysterious supply of money from these Unions; and, from what you said, it was evident the man was of a passionate, demonstrative nature, and gave strong expression to all he felt
Oh, papa
Well! I only want you to do justice to Mr. Thornton, who is, I suspect, of an exactly opposite nature,-- a man who is far too proud to show his feelings. Just the character I should have thought beforehand, you would have admired, Margaret
So I do,-- so I should; but I don't feel quite so sure as you do of the existence of those feelings. He is a man of great strength of character,-- of unusual intellect, considering the few advantages he has had
Not so few. He has led a practical life from a very early age; has been called upon to exercise judgment and self-control. All that developes one part of the intellect. To be sure, he needs some of the knowledge of the past, which gives the truest basis for conjecture as to the future; but he knows this need,-- he perceives it, and that is something. You are quite prejudiced against Mr. Thornton, Margaret
He is the first specimen of a manufacturer -- of a person engaged in trade -- that I had ever the opportunity of studying, papa. He is my first olive: let me make a face while I swallow it. I know he is good of his kind, and by and by I shall like the kind. I rather think I am already beginning to do so. I was very much interested by what the gentlemen were talking about, although I did not understand half of it. I was quite sorry when Miss Thornton came to take me to the other end of the room, saying she was sure I should be uncomfortable at being the only lady among so many gentlemen. I had never thought about it, I was so busy listening; and the ladies were so dull, papa -- oh, so dull! Yet I think it was clever too. It reminded me of our old game of having each so many nouns to introduce into a sentence
What do you mean, child
Why, they took nouns that were signs of things which gave evidence of wealth,-- housekeepers, under-gardeners, extent of glass, valuable lace, diamonds, and all such things; and each one formed her speech so as to bring them all in, in the prettiest accidental manner possible
You will be as proud of your one servant when you get her, if all is true about her that Mrs. Thornton says
To be sure, I shall. I felt like a great hypocrite to-night, sitting there in my white silk gown, with my idle hands before me, when I remembered all the good, thorough, house-work they had done to-day. They took me for a fine lady, I'm sure
Even I was mistaken enough to think you looked like a lady my dear
Oh, master!-- Oh, Miss Margaret! Thank God you are come! Dr. Donaldson is here. The servant next door went for him, for the charwoman is gone home. She's better now; but, oh, sir! I thought she'd have died an hour ago
Oh! I should not have left her -- wicked daughter that I am
She is better now
The opiate has taken effect. The spasms were very bad: no wonder they frightened your maid; but she'll rally this time
This time! Let me go to her
Speak to him, Miss Hale. We must rouse him
Papa
Papa! Speak to me
Margaret, did you know of this? Oh, it was cruel of you
No, sir, it was not cruel
Miss Hale acted under my directions. There may have been a mistake, but it was not cruel. Your wife will be a different creature to-morrow, I trust. She has had spasms, as I anticipated, though I did not tell Miss Hale of my apprehensions. She has taken the opiate I brought with me; she will have a good long sleep; and to-morrow, that look which has alarmed you so much will have passed away
But not the disease
Not the disease. We cannot touch the disease, with all our poor vaunted skill. We can only delay its progress -- alleviate the pain it causes. Be a man, sir -- a Christian. Have faith in the immortality of the soul, which no pain, no mortal disease, can assail or touch
You have never been married, Dr. Donaldson; you do not know what it is
What must we do
Tell us both. Margaret is my staff -- my right hand
husbanding resources
one watcher only being required
All are shadows!-- all are passing!-- all is past
What can we do to spare mamma such another night
It is, to a certain degree, the reaction after the powerful opiates I have been obliged to use. It is more painful for you to see than for her to bear, I believe. But, I think, if we could get a water-bed it might be a good thing. Not but what she will be better to-morrow; pretty much like herself as she was before this attack. Still, I should like her to have a water-bed. Mrs. Thornton has one, I know. I'll try and call there this afternoon. Stay
I'm not sure whether I can go; I've a long round to take. It would do you no harm to have a brisk walk to Marlborough Street, and ask Mrs. Thornton if she can spare it
Certainly
I could go while mamma is asleep this afternoon. I'm sure Mrs. Thornton would lend it to us
It's you, is it, ma'am
Th' folk are all coming up here I reckon
I don't know. Something unusual seemed going on; but this street is quite empty, I think
But work grew scarce, while bread grew dear, And wages lessened, too; For Irish hordes were bidders here, Our half-paid work to do
Mamma will come directly, Miss Hale. She desired me to apologise to you as it is. Perhaps you know my brother has imported hands from Ireland, and it has irritated the Milton people excessively -- as if he hadn't a right to get labour where he could; and the stupid wretches here wouldn't work for him; and now they've frightened these poor Irish starvelings so with their threats, that we daren't let them out. You may see them huddled in that top room in the mill,-- and they're to sleep there, to keep them safe from those brutes, who will neither work nor let them work. And mamma is seeing about their food, and John is speaking to them, for some of the women are crying to go back. Ah! here's mamma
They're at the gates! Call John, Fanny,-- call him in from the mill! They're at the gates! They'll batter them in! Call John, I say
I'm sorry, Miss Hale, you have visited us at this unfortunate moment, when, I fear, you may be involved in whatever risk we have to bear. Mother! hadn't you better go into the back rooms? I'm not sure whether they may not have made their way from Pinner's Lane into the stable-yard; but if not, you will be safer there than here. Go Jane
I stop here
Where you are, there I stay
Where are the poor imported work-people? In the factory there
Yes! I left them cowered up in a small room, at the head of a back flight of stairs; bidding them run all risks, and escape down there, if they heard any attack made on the mill-doors. But it is not them -- it is me they want
When can the soldiers be here
Supposing Williams got straight off when I told him, and hadn't to dodge about amongst them -- it must be twenty minutes yet
Twenty minutes
Shut down the windows instantly, mother
the gates won't bear such another shock. Shut down that window, Miss Hale
Are they gone
Gone
Listen
Thank God
Had you not better go upstairs, Miss Hale
No
Never mind
I am very sorry you should have been entrapped into all this alarm; but it cannot last long now; a few minutes more, and the soldiers will be here
Oh, God
there is Boucher. I know his face, though he is livid with rage,-- he is fighting to get to the front -- look! look
Who is Boucher
Let them yell
In five minutes more --. I only hope my poor Irishmen are not terrified out of their wits by such a fiendlike noise. Keep up your courage for five minutes, Miss Hale
Don't be afraid for me
But what in five minutes? Can you do nothing to soothe these poor creatures? It is awful to see them
The soldiers will be here directly, and that will bring them to reason
To reason
What kind of reason
The only reason that does with men that make themselves into wild beasts. By heaven! they've turned to the mill-door
Mr. Thornton
go down this instant, if you are not a coward. Go down and face them like a man. Save these poor strangers, whom you have decoyed here. Speak to your workmen as if they were human beings. Speak to them kindly. Don't let the soldiers come in and cut down poor-creatures who are driven mad. I see one there who is. If you have any courage or noble quality in you, go out and speak to them, man to man
I will go. Perhaps I may ask you to accompany me downstairs, and bar the door behind me; my mother and sister will need that protection
Oh! Mr. Thornton! I do not know -- I may be wrong -- only
Go
The soldiers are sent for -- are coming. Go peaceably. Go away. You shall have relief from your complaints, whatever they are
Shall them Irish blackguards be packed back again
Never, for your bidding
Go away
This is no place for you
It is
You did not see what I saw
For God's sake! do not damage your cause by this violence. You do not know what you are doing
You do well
You come to oust the innocent stranger You fall -- you hundreds -- on one man; and when a woman comes before you, to ask you for your own sakes to be reasonable creatures, your cowardly wrath falls upon her! You do well
Th' stone were meant for thee; but thou wert sheltered behind a woman
Can you rest there
Now kill me, if it is your brutal will. There is no woman to shield me here. You may beat me to death -- you will never move me from what I have determined upon -- not you
It is nothing
The skin is grazed, and I was stunned at the moment. Oh, I am so thankful they are gone
Mother -- mother
Come down -- they are gone, and Miss Hale is hurt
Oh, my Margaret -- my Margaret! no one can tell what you are to me! Dead -- cold as you lie there, you are the only woman I ever loved! Oh, Margaret -- Margaret
Miss Hale is hurt, mother. A stone has grazed her temple. She has lost a good deal of blood, I'm afraid
She looks very seriously hurt,-- I could almost fancy her dead
It is only a fainting-fit. She has spoken to me since
Go and call Jane,-- she can find me the things I want; and do you go to your Irish people, who are crying and shouting as if they were mad with fright
She has had a terrible blow
Is there any one who will go for a doctor
Not me, ma'am, if you please
Them rabble may be all about; I don't think the cut is so deep, ma'am, as it looks
I will not run the chance. She was hurt in our house. If you are a coward, Jane, I am not. I will go
Pray, ma'am, let me send one of the police. There's ever so many come up, and soldiers too
And yet you're afraid to go! I will not have their time taken up with our errands. They'll have enough to do to catch some of the mob. You will not be afraid to stop in this house
and go on bathing Miss Hale's forehead, shall you? I shall not be ten minutes away
Couldn't Hannah go, ma'am
Why Hannah? Why any but you? No, Jane, if you don't go, I do
Oh, mamma, how you terrified me! I thought you were a man that had got into the house
Nonsense! The men are all gone away. There are soldiers all round the place, seeking for their work now it is too late. Miss Hale is lying on the dining-room sofa badly hurt. I am going for the doctor
Oh! don't, mamma! they'll murder you
Find me some one else to go but that girl must not bleed to death
Bleed! oh, how horrid! How has she got hurt
I don't know,-- I have no time to ask. Go down to her, Fanny, and do try to make yourself of use. Jane is with her; and I trust it looks worse than it is. Jane has refused to leave the house, cowardly woman! And I won't put myself in the way of any more refusals from my servants, so I am going myself
Oh, dear, dear
Oh, Jane
what is the matter? How white she looks! How did she get hurt? Did they throw stones into the drawing-room
She'd have been safe enough, miss, if she'd stayed in the drawing-room, or come up to us; we were in the front garret, and could see it all, out of harm's way
Where was she, then
Just before the front door -- with master
With John! with my brother! How did she get there
Nay, miss, that's not for me to say
Sarah did
Sarah what
Sarah what
Don't speak in these half sentences, or I can't understand you
Well, miss, since you will have it -- Sarah, you see, was in the best place for seeing, being at the right-hand window; and she says, and said at the very time too, that she saw Miss Hale with her arms about master's neck, hugging him before all the people
I don't believe it
I know she cares for my brother; any one can see that; and I dare say, she'd give her eyes if he'd marry her,-- which he never will, I can tell her. But I don't believe she'd be so bold and forward as to put her arms round his neck
Poor young lady! she's paid for it dearly if she did. It's my belief, that the blow has given her such an ascendency of blood to the head as she'll never get the better from. She looks like a corpse now
Oh, I wish mamma would come
I never was in the room with a dead person before
Stay, miss! She's not dead: her eye-lids are quivering, and here's wet tears a-coming down her cheeks. Speak to her, Miss Fanny
Are you better now
How is she? Are you better, my dear
Here is Mr. Lowe come to see you
I am better now
It is not much, I think. I am better now. I must go home
Not until I have applied some strips of plaster; and you have rested a little
Now, if you please
I must go. Mamma will not see it, I think. It is under the hair, is it not
Quite; no one could tell
But you must not go
I must
Think of mamma. If they should hear ---- Besides, I must go
I cannot stay here. May I ask for a cab
You are quite flushed and feverish
It is only with being here, when I do so want to go. The air -- getting away, would do me more good than anything
I really believe it is as she says
If her mother is so ill as you told me on the way here, it may be very serious if she hears of this riot, and does not see her daughter back at the time she expects. The injury is not deep. I will fetch a cab, if your servants are still afraid to go out
Oh, thank you
It will do me more good than anything. It is the air of this room that makes me feel so miserable
If you will allow me, I will see you home, Miss Hale. The streets are not very quiet yet
Which when his mother saw, she in her mind Was troubled sore, ne wist well what to ween
I could not come sooner: the superintendent would ---- Where is she
Where is Miss Hale
Gone home
Gone home
Yes. She was a great deal better. Indeed, I don't believe it was so very much of a hurt; only some people faint at the least thing
I am sorry she is gone home
She could not have been fit for it
She said she was; and Mr. Lowe said she was. I went for him myself
Thank you, mother
What have you done with your Irish people
Sent to the Dragon for a good meal for them, poor wretches. And then, luckily, I caught Father Grady, and I've asked him in to speak to them, and dissuade them from going off in a body. How did Miss Hale go home? I'm sure she could not walk
She had a cab. Everything was done properly, even to the paying. Let us talk of something else. She has caused disturbance enough
I don't know where I should have been but for her
Are you become so helpless as to have to be defended by a girl
Not many girls would have taken the blows on herself which were meant for me;-- meant with right down good-will, too
A girl in love will do a good deal
Mother
You have taken some steps about the rioters, I suppose? You don't apprehend any more violence, do you? Where were the police? Never at hand when they're wanted
On the contrary, I saw three or four of them, when the gates gave way, struggling and beating about in fine fashion; and more came running up just when the yard was clearing. I might have given some of the fellows in charge then, if I had had my wits about me. But there will be no difficulty, plenty of people can Identify them
But won't they come back to-night
I'm going to see about a sufficient guard for the premises. I have appointed to meet Captain Hanbury in half an hour at the station
You must have some tea first
Tea! Yes, I suppose I must. It's half-past six, and I may be out for some time. Don't sit up for me, mother
You expect me to go to bed before I have seen you safe, do you
Well, perhaps not
But if I've time, I shall go round by Crampton, after I've arranged with the police and seen Hamper and Clarkson
Why are you going round by Crampton
To ask after Miss Hale
I will send. Williams must take the water-bed she came to ask for. He shall inquire how she is
I must go myself
Not merely to ask how Miss Hale is
No, not merely for that. I want to thank her for the way in which she stood between me and the mob
What made you go down at all? It was putting your head into the lion's mouth
Shall you be afraid to be left without me, until I can get some of the police; or had we better send Williams for them now, and they could be here by the time we have done tea? There's no time to be lost. I must be off in a quarter of an hour
There, that's enough
The reality was enough for me
I know what I know
Why? Will it be too late to disturb them
John, come back to me for this one evening. It will be late for Mrs. Hale. But that is not it. To-morrow, you will ---- Come back to-night, John
I will return straight here after I have done my business You will be sure to inquire after them?-- after her
Mother! You know what I have got to say to Miss Hale, to-morrow
Yes! I do. You can hardly do otherwise
Do otherwise! I don't understand you
I mean that, after allowing her feelings so to overcome her, I consider you bound in honour
Bound in honour
I'm afraid honour has nothing to do with it. "Her feelings overcome her!" What feelings do you mean
Nay, John, there is no need to be angry. Did she not rush down, and cling to you to save you from danger
She did
But, mother
I dare not hope. I never was fainthearted before; but I cannot believe such a creature cares for me
Don't be foolish, John. Such a creature! Why, she might be a duke's daughter, to hear you speak. And what proof more would you have, I wonder, of her caring for you? I can believe she has had a struggle with her aristocratic way of viewing things; but I like her the better for seeing clearly at last. It is a good deal for me to say
for after to-night, I stand second. It was to have you to myself, all to myself, a few hours longer, that I begged you not to go till to-morrow
Dearest mother
But I know she does not care for me. I shall put myself at her feet -- I must. If it were but one chance in a thousand -- or a million -- I should do it
Don't fear
Don't be afraid
As far as love may go she may be worthy of you. It must have taken a good deal to overcome her pride. Don't be afraid, John
Mrs. Thornton will send the water-bed, mamma
Dear, how tired you look! Is it very hot, Margaret
Very hot, and the streets are rather rough with the strike
Here has been a message from Bessy Higgins, asking you to go to her
But I'm sure you look too tired
Yes
I am tired, I cannot go
Now I will think of it -- now I will remember it all. I could not before -- I dared not
I, who hate scenes -- I, who have despised people for showing emotion -- who have thought them wanting in self-control -- I went down and must needs throw myself into the melee, like a romantic fool! Did I do any good? They would have gone away without me I dare say
No, perhaps they would not. I did some good. But what possessed me to defend that man as if he were a helpless child! Ah
it is no wonder those people thought I was in love with him, after disgracing myself in that way. I in love -- and with him too
Oh how low I am fallen that they should say that of me! I could not have been so brave for any one else, just because he was so utterly indifferent to me -- if, indeed, I do not positively dislike him. It made me the more anxious that there should be fair play on each side; and I could see what fair play was. It was not fair, said she, vehemently, 'that he should stand there -- sheltered, awaiting the soldiers, who might catch those poor maddened creatures as in a trap -- without an effort on his part, to bring them to reason. And it was worse than unfair for them to set on him as they threatened. I would do it again, let who will say what they like of me. If I saved one blow, one cruel, angry action that might otherwise have been committed, I did a woman's work. Let them insult my maiden pride as they will -- I walk pure before God
stiller than chiselled marble
If you please, Miss Margaret, here's the water-bed from Mrs. Thornton's. It's too late for to-night, I'm afraid, for missus is nearly asleep: but it will do nicely for to-morrow
Very
You must send our best thanks
If you please, Miss Margaret, he says he's to ask particular how you are. I think he must mean missus; but he says his last words were, to ask how Miss Hale was
Me
I am quite well. Tell him I am perfectly well
Good-night, Margaret. I have every chance of a good night myself, and you are looking very pale with your watching. I shall call Dixon if your mother needs anything. Do you go to bed and sleep like a top; for I'm sure you need it, poor child
Good-night, papa
Your beauty was the first that won the place, And scal'd the walls of my undaunted heart, Which, captive now, pines in a caitive case, Unkindly met with rigour for desert;-- Yet not the less your servant shall abide, In spite of rude repulse or silent pride
Mr. Thornton, Miss Margaret. He is in the drawing-room
Did he ask for me? Isn't papa come in
He asked for you, miss; and master is out
Very well, I will come
Miss Hale, I was very ungrateful yesterday
You had nothing to be grateful for
You mean, I suppose, that you believe you ought to thank me for what I did
It was only a natural instinct; any woman would have done just the same. We all feel the sanctity of our sex as a high privilege when we see danger. I ought rather
to apologise to you, for having said thoughtless words which sent you down into the danger
It was not your words; it was the truth they conveyed, pun-gently as it was expressed. But you shall not drive me off upon that, and so escape the expression of my deep gratitude, my
I do not try to escape from anything
I simply say, that you owe me no gratitude; and I may add, that any expression of it will be painful to me, because I do not feel that I deserve it. Still, if it will relieve you from even a fancied obligation, speak on
I do not want to be relieved from any obligation
to think circumstance so wrought, that whenever I exult in existence henceforward, I may say to myself, "All this gladness in life, all honest pride in doing my work in the world, all this keen sense of being, I owe to her!" And it doubles the gladness, it makes the pride glow, it sharpens the sense of existence till I hardly know if it is pain or pleasure, to think that I owe it to one -- nay, you must, you shall hear
to one whom I love, as I do not believe man ever loved woman before
Your way of speaking shocks me. It is blasphemous. I cannot help it, if that is my first feeling. It might not be so, I dare say, if I understood the kind of feeling you describe. I do not want to vex you; and besides, we must speak gently, for mamma is asleep; but your whole manner offends me
How
Offends you! I am indeed most unfortunate
Yes
I do feel offended; and, I think, justly. You seem to fancy that my conduct of yesterday
was a personal act between you and me; and that you may come and thank me for it, instead of perceiving, as a gentleman would -- yes! a gentleman
that any woman, worthy of the name of woman, would come forward to shield, with her reverenced helplessness, a man in danger from the violence of numbers
And the gentleman thus rescued is forbidden the relief of thanks
I am a man. I claim the right of expressing my feelings
And I yielded to the right; simply saying that you gave me pain by insisting upon it
But you seem to have imagined, that I was not merely guided by womanly instinct, but
but that I was prompted by some particular feeling for you -- you! Why, there was not a man -- not a poor desperate man in all that crowd -- for whom I had not more sympathy -- for whom I should not have done what little I could more heartily
You may speak on, Miss Hale. I am aware of all these misplaced sympathies of yours. I now believe that it was only your innate sense of oppression --(yes; I, though a master, may be oppressed)-- that made you act so nobly as you did. I know you despise me; allow me to say, it is because you do not understand me
I do not care to understand
No, I see you do not. You are unfair and unjust
One word more. You look as if you thought it tainted you to be loved by me. You cannot avoid it. Nay, I, if I would, cannot cleanse you from it. But I would not, if I could. I have never loved any woman before: my life has been too busy, my thoughts too much absorbed with other things. Now I love, and will love. But do not be afraid of too much expression on my part
I am not afraid
No one yet has ever dared to be impertinent to me, and no one ever shall. But, Mr. Thornton, you have been very kind to my father
Don't let us go on making each other angry. Pray don't
But how could I help it
I never liked him. I was civil; but I took no trouble to conceal my indifference. Indeed, I never thought about myself or him, so my manners must have shown the truth. All that yesterday, he might mistake. But that is his fault, not mine. I would do it again, if need were, though it does lead me into all this shame and trouble
Revenge may have her own; Roused discipline aloud proclaims their cause, And injured navies urge their broken laws
His strong idea wandered through her thought
Fais ce que dois, advienne que pourra
Go and see Bessy Higgins, of course
I thought I should na' ha' seen yo' again
I'm afraid you're much worse. But I could not have come yesterday, my mother was so ill -- for many reasons
Shall I read you a chapter, now
Ay, do! M'appen I shan't listen to th' sense, at first; it will seem far away -- but when yo' come to words I like -- to th' comforting texts -- it'll seem close in my ear, and going through me as it were
Don't go on reading. It's no use. I'm blaspheming all the time in my mind, wi' thinking angrily on what canna be helped.-- Yo'd hear of th' riot, m'appen, yesterday at Marlborough Mills? Thornton's factory, yo' know
Your father was not there, was he
Not he. He'd ha' given his right hand if it had never come to pass. It's that that's fretting me. He's fairly knocked down in his mind by it. It's no use telling him, fools will always break out o bounds. Yo' never saw a man so down-hearted as he is
But why
I don't understand
'em; but who would ne'er injure property or life: For
they do say, that Boucher threw a stone at Thornton's sister, that welly killed her
That's not true
It was not Boucher that threw the stone
Yo'd be there then, were yo'?' asked Bessy languidly for indeed, she had spoken with many pauses, as if speech was unusually difficult to her. 'Yes. Never mind. Go on. Only it was not Boucher that threw the stone. But what did he answer to your father
No, indeed, Mr. Hale, it was those beds at Sir John's. Now, Margaret, you're young enough, and go about in the day; are the beds comfortable? I appeal to you. Do they give you a feeling of perfect repose when you lie down upon them; or rather, don't you toss about, and try in vain to find an easy position, and waken in the morning as tired as when you went to bed
To tell the truth, mamma, I've never thought about my bed at all, what kind it is. I'm so sleepy at night, that if I only lie down anywhere, I nap off directly. So I don't think I'm a competent witness. But then, you know, I never had the opportunity of trying Sir John Beresford's beds. I never was at Oxenham
Were not you? Oh, no! to be sure. It was poor darling Fred I took with me, I remember. I only went to Oxenham once after I was married,-- to your Aunt Shaw's wedding; and poor little Fred was the baby then. And I know Dixon did not like changing from lady's maid to nurse, and I was afraid that if I took her near her old home, and amongst her own people, she might want to leave me. But poor baby was taken ill at Oxenham, with his teething; and, what with my being a great deal with Anna just before her marriage, and not being very strong myself, Dixon had more of the charge of him than she ever had before; and it made her so fond of him, and she was so proud when he would turn away from every one and cling to her, that I don't believe she ever thought of leaving me again; though it was very different from what she'd been accustomed to. Poor Fred! Every body loved him. He was born with the gift of winning hearts. It makes me think very badly of Captain Reid when I know that he disliked my own dear boy. I think it a certain proof he had a bad heart. Ah! Your poor father, Margaret. He has left the room. He can't bear to hear Fred spoken of
I love to hear about him, mamma. Tell me all you like; you never can tell me too much. Tell me what he was like as a baby
Why, Margaret, you must not be hurt, but he was much prettier than you were. I remember, when I first saw you in Dixon's arms, I said, "Dear, what an ugly little thing!" And she said, "It's not every child that's like Master Fred, bless him!" Dear! how well I remember it. Then I could have had Fred in my arms every minute of the day, and his cot was close by my bed; and now, now -- Margaret -- I don't know where my boy is, and sometimes I think I shall never see him again
And, Margaret, if I am to die -- if I am one of those appointed to die before many weeks are over -- I must see my child first. I cannot think how it must be managed; but I charge you, Margaret, as you yourself hope for comfort in your last illness, bring him to me that I may bless him. Only for five minutes, Margaret. There could be no danger in five minutes. Oh, Margaret, let me see him before I die
Mamma, I will write to-night, and tell Frederick what you say. I am as sure that he will come directly to us, as I am sure of my life. Be easy, mamma, you shall see him as far as anything earthly can be promised
You will write to-night? Oh, Margaret! the post goes out at five -- you will write by it, won't you? I have so few hours left -- I feel, dear, as if I should not recover, though sometimes your father over-persuades me into hoping; you will write directly, won't you? Don't lose a single post; for just by that very post I may miss him
But, mamma, papa is out
Papa is out! and what then? Do you mean that he would deny me this last wish, Margaret? Why, I should not be ill -- be dying -- if he had not taken me away from Helstone, to this unhealthy, smoky, sunless place
Oh, mamma
Yes; it is so, indeed. He knows it himself; he has said so many a time. He would do anything for me; you don't mean he would refuse me this last wish -- prayer, if you will. And, indeed, Margaret, the longing to see Frederick stands between me and God. I cannot pray till I have this one thing; indeed, I cannot. Don't lose time, dear, dear Margaret. Write by this very next post. Then he may be here -- here in twenty-two days! For he is sure to come. No cords or chains can keep him. In twenty-two days I shall see my boy
You are not writing
Bring me some pens and paper; I will try and write myself
Only wait till papa comes in. Let us ask him how best to do it
You promised, Margaret, not a quarter of an hour ago;-- you said he should come
And so he shall, mamma; don't cry, my own dear mother. I'll write here, now,-- you shall see me write,-- and it shall go by this very post; and if papa thinks fit, he can write again when he comes in,-- it is only a day's delay. Oh, mamma, don't cry so pitifully,-- it cuts me to the heart
And where have you been, my pretty maid
To the post-office,-- with a letter; a letter to Frederick. Oh, papa, perhaps I have done wrong: but mamma was seized with such a passionate yearning to see him -- she said it would make her well again,-- and then she said that she must see him before she died,-- I cannot tell you how urgent she was! Did I do wrong
You should have waited till I came in, Margaret
I tried to persuade her
I don't know
She ought to see him if she wishes it so much, for I believe it would do her much more good than all the doctor's medicine,-- and, perhaps, set her up altogether; but the danger to him, I'm afraid, is very great
All these years since the mutiny, papa
Yes; it is necessary, of course, for government to take very stringent measures for the repression of offences against authority, more particularly in the navy, where a commanding officer needs to be surrounded in his men's eyes with a vivid consciousness of all the power there is at home to back him, and take up his cause, and avenge any injuries offered to him, if need be. Ah! it's no matter to them how far their authorities have tyrannised,-- galled hasty tempers to madness,-- or, if that can be any excuse afterwards, it is never allowed for in the first instance; they spare no expense, they send out ships,-- they scour the seas to lay hold of the offenders,-- the lapse of years does not wash out the memory of the offence,-- it is a fresh and vivid crime on the Admiralty books till it is blotted out by blood
Oh, papa, what have I done! And yet it seemed so right at the time. I'm sure Frederick himself, would run the risk
So he would; so he should! Nay, Margaret, I'm glad it is done, though I durst not have done it myself. I'm thankful it is as it is; I should have hesitated till, perhaps, it might have been too late to do any good. Dear Margaret, you have done what is right about it; and the end is beyond our control
I have found that holy place of rest Still changeless
No one loves me,-- no one cares for me, but you, mother
Mother's love is given by God, John. It holds fast for ever and ever. A girl's love is like a puff of smoke,-- it changes with every wind. And she would not have you, my own lad, would not she
I am not fit for her, mother; I knew I was not
Mother
I cannot hear a word against her. Spare me,-- spare me! I am very weak in my sore heart;-- I love her yet; I love her more than ever
And I hate her
I tried not to hate her, when she stood between you and me, because,-- I said to myself,-- she will make him happy; and I would give my heart's blood to do that. But now, I hate her for your misery's sake. Yes, John, it's no use hiding up your aching heart from me. I am the mother that bore you, and your sorrow is my agony; and if you don't hate her, I do
Then, mother, you make me love her more. She is unjustly treated by you, and I must make the balance even. But why do we talk of love or hatred? She does not care for me, and that is enough,-- too much. Let us never name the subject again. It is the only thing you can do for me in the matter. Let us never name her
With all my heart. I only wish that she, and all belonging to her, were swept back to the place they came from
Warrants are out against three men for conspiracy, mother. The riot yesterday helped to knock up the strike
For never any thing can be amiss When simpleness and duty tender it
I care for nobody -- Nobody cares for me
Why, Mr. Thornton you're cutting me very coolly, I must say. And how is Mrs. Thornton? Brave weather this! We doctors don't like it, I can tell you
I beg your pardon, Dr. Donaldson. I really didn't see you. My mother's quite well, thank you. It is a fine day, and good for the harvest, I hope. If the wheat is well got in, we shall have a brisk trade next year, whatever you doctors have
Ay, ay. Each man for himself Your bad weather, and your bad times, are my good ones. When trade is bad, there's more undermining of health, and preparation for death, going on among you Milton men than you're aware of
Not with me, Doctor. I'm made of iron. The news of the worst bad debt I ever had, never made my pulse vary. This strike, which affects me more than any one else in Milton,-- more than Hamper,-- never comes near my appetite. You must go elsewhere for a patient, Doctor
By the way, you've recommended me a good patient, poor lady! Not to go on talking in this heartless way, I seriously believe that Mrs. Hale -- that lady in Crampton, you know -- hasn't many weeks to live. I never had any hope of cure, as I think I told you; but I've been seeing her to-day, and I think very badly of her
Can I do anything, Doctor
You know -- you would see, that money is not very plentiful; are there any comforts or dainties she ought to have
No
She craves for fruit,-- she has a constant fever on her; but jargonelle pears will do as well as anything, and there are quantities of them in the market
I rely upon you
Oh! never fear! I'll not spare your purse,-- I know it's deep enough. I wish you'd give me carte-blanche for all my patients, and all their wants
Where shall we send them to, sir
To Marlborough Mills, I suppose, sir
No
Give the basket to me,-- I'll take it
I will not be daunted from doing as I choose by the thought of her. I like to take this fruit to the poor mother, and it is simply right that I should. She shall never scorn me out of doing what I please. A pretty joke, indeed, if, for fear of a haughty girl, I failed in doing a kindness to a man I liked I do it for Mr. Hale; I do it in defiance of her
I met Dr. Donaldson, ma'am, and as he said fruit would be good for you, I have taken the liberty -- the great liberty of bringing you some that seemed to me fine
Fetch a plate, Margaret -- a basket -- anything
I must go
I cannot stay. If you will forgive this liberty,-- my rough ways,-- too abrupt, I fear -- but I will be more gentle next time. You will allow me the pleasure of bringing you some fruit again, if I should see any that is tempting. Good afternoon, Mr. Hale. Good-bye, ma'am
Oh! it is so delicious
How kind of him to think of me! Margaret love, only taste these grapes! Was it not good of him
Yes
Margaret
you won't like anything Mr. Thornton does. I never saw anybody so prejudiced
If I had any prejudices, the gift of such delicious fruit as this would melt them all away. I have not tasted such fruit -- no! not even in Hampshire -- since I was a boy; and to boys, I fancy, all fruit is good. I remember eating sloes and crabs with a relish. Do you remember the matted-up currant bushes, Margaret, at the corner of the west-wall in the garden at home
Bless me, miss! How you startled me! Missus is not worse, is she? Is anything the matter
No, nothing. Only I'm silly, Dixon, and want a glass of water. What are you looking for? I keep my muslins in that drawer
Now I don't like telling you what I wanted, because you've fretting enough to go through, and I know you'll fret about this. I meant to have kept it from you till night, may be, or such times as that
What is the matter? Pray, tell me, Dixon, at once
That young woman you go to see -- Higgins, I mean
Well
Well! she died this morning, and her sister is here -- come to beg a strange thing. It seems, the young woman who died had a fancy for being buried in something of yours, and so the sister's come to ask for it,-- and I was looking for a night-cap that wasn't too good to give away
Oh! let me find one
Poor Bessy! I never thought I should not see her again
Why, that's another thing. This girl down-stairs wanted me to ask you, if you would like to see her
But she's dead
I never saw a dead person. No! I would rather not
I should never have asked you, if you hadn't come in. I told her you wouldn't
I will go down and speak to her
Yes, perhaps I may. Yes, I will. I'll come before tea. But where's your father, Mary
Miss Hale
where's the use o' your going to see the poor thing laid out? I'd never say a word against it, if it could do the girl any good; and I wouldn't mind a bit going myself, if that would satisfy her. They've just a notion, these common folks, of its being a respect to the departed. Here
I'll come and see your sister. Miss Hale is busy, and she can't come, or else she would
No, Dixon
I will go. Mary, you shall see me this afternoon
Through cross to crown!-- And though thy spirit's life Trials untold assail with giant strength, Good cheer! good cheer! Soon ends the bitter strife, And thou shalt reign in peace with Christ at length
Ay sooth, we feel too strong in weal, to need Thee on that road; But woe being come, the soul is dumb, that crieth not on "God
They rest from their labours
The weary are at rest
He giveth His beloved sleep
pull through
Were yo' with her? Did yo' see her die
No
All men must die
But she were younger than me
Yo're sure and certain she's dead -- not in a dwam, a faint?-- she's been so before, often
She is dead
She is dead
Get thee gone!-- get thee gone
What do I care for thee
Oh, father, father
What are yo' looking at me in that way for
If yo' think for to keep me from going what gait I choose, because she loved yo
Come with me
Come and see her
Her last words to Mary were, "Keep my father fro' drink
It canna hurt her now
Nought can hurt her now
We may quarrel and fall out -- we may make peace and be friends -- we may clem to skin and bone -- and nought o' all our griefs will ever touch her more. Hoo's had her portion on 'em. What wi' hard work first, and sickness at last, hoo's led the life of a dog. And to die without knowing one good piece o' rejoicing in all her days! Nay, wench, whatever hoo said, hoo can know nought about it now, and I mun ha' a sup o' drink just to steady me again sorrow
No
You shall not. If her life has been what you say, at any rate she did not fear death as some do. Oh, you should have heard her speak of the life to come -- the life hidden with God, that she is now gone to
You are sorely tired. Where have you been all day -- not at work
Not at work, sure enough
Not at what you call work. I were at the Committee, till I were sickened out wi' trying to make fools hear reason. I were fetched to Boucher's wife afore seven this morning. She's bed-fast, but she were raving and raging to know where her dunder-headed brute of a chap was, as if I'd to keep him -- as if he were fit to be ruled by me. The d -- d fool, who has put his foot in all our plans! And I've walked my feet sore wi' going about for to see men who wouldn't be seen, now the law is raised again us. And I were sore-hearted, too, which is worse than sore-footed; and if I did see a friend who ossed to treat me, I never knew hoo lay a-dying here. Bess, lass, thou'd believe me, thou wouldst -- wouldstn't thou
I am sure
I am sure you did not know: it was quite sudden. But now, you see, it would be different; you do know; you do see her lying there; you hear what she said with her last breath. You will not go
Come home with me
At least you shall have some comfortable food, which I'm sure you need
Yo'r father's a parson
He was
I'll go and take a dish o' tea with him, since yo've asked me. I've many a thing I often wished to say to a parson, and I'm not particular as to whether he's preaching now, or not
Goodbye, ou'd wench! We've parted company at last, we have! Butthou's t been a blessin' to thy father ever sin' thou wert born. Bless thy white lips, lass,-- they've a smile on 'em now! and I'm glad to see it once again, though I'm lone and forlorn for evermore
I'm going to take my tea wi' her father, I am
How is mamma?-- where is papa
Oh, papa! he really is a man you will not dislike -- if you won't be shocked to begin with
But, Margaret, to bring a drunken man home -- and your mother so ill
I am sorry, papa. He is very quiet -- he is not tipsy at all. He was only rather strange at first, but that might be the shock of poor Bessy's death
It is all right, dear. I'll go and make him as comfortable as I can, and do you attend to your mother. Only, if you can come in and make a third in the study, I shall be glad
Oh, yes -- thank you
Papa -- you must not wonder at what he says: he's an ---- I mean he does not believe in much of what we do
Oh dear! a drunken infidel weaver
If your mother goes to sleep, be sure you come directly
When did you write to Frederick, Margaret? Yesterday, or the day before
Yesterday, mamma
Yesterday. And the letter went
Oh, Margaret, I'm so afraid of his coming! If he should be recognised! If he should be taken! If he should be executed, after all these years that he has kept away and lived in safety! I keep falling asleep and dreaming that he is caught and being tried
Oh, mamma, don't be afraid. There will be some risk no doubt; but we will lessen it as much as ever we can. And it is so little! Now, if we were at Helstone, there would be twenty -- a hundred times as much. There, everybody would remember him and if there was a stranger known to be in the house, they would be sure to guess it was Frederick; while here, nobody knows or cares for us enough to notice what we do. Dixon will keep the door like a dragon -- won't you, Dixon -- while he is here
They'll be clever if they come in past me
And he need not go out, except in the dusk, poor fellow
Poor fellow
But I almost wish you had not written. Would it be too late to stop him if you wrote again, Margaret
I'm afraid it would, mamma
I always dislike that doing things in such a hurry
Come now, ma am
you know seeing Master Frederick is just the very thing of all others you're longing for. And I'm glad Miss Margaret wrote off straight, without shilly-shallying. I've had a great mind to do it myself. And we'll keep him snug, depend upon it. There's only Martha in the house that would not do a good deal to save him on a pinch; and I've been thinking she might go and see her mother just at that very time. She's been saying once or twice she should like to go, for her mother has had a stroke since she came here, only she didn't like to ask. But I'll see about her being safe off, as soon as we know when he comes, God bless him! So take your tea, ma'am, in comfort, and trust to me
The more you ax us, the more we won't stir
Mr. Higgins
Higgins
conomy? They're mighty anxious to come round us wi' that piece o' wisdom; but t'other would be a greater convarsion, if it were true
But the masters have nothing to do with your religion. All that they are connected with you in is trade,-- so they think,-- and all that it concerns them, therefore, to rectify your opinions in is the science of trade
I'm glad, sir
that yo' put in, "so they think." I'd ha' thought yo' a hypocrite, I'm afeard, if yo' hadn't, for all yo'r a parson, or rayther because yo'r a parson. Yo' see, if yo'd spoken o' religion as a thing that, if it was true, it didn't concern all men to press on all men's attention, above everything else in this 'varsal earth, I should ha' thought yo' a knave for to be a parson; and I'd rather think yo' a fool than a knave. No offence, I hope, sir
None at all. You consider me mistaken, and I consider you far more fatally mistaken. I don't expect to convince you in a day,-- not in one conversation; but let us know each other, and speak freely to each other about these things, and the truth will prevail. I should not believe in God if I did not believe that. Mr. Higgins, I trust, whatever else you have given up, you believe
you believe in Him
Man! I could fell yo' to the ground for tempting me. Whatten business have yo' to try me wi' your doubts? Think o' her lying theere, after the life hoo's led and think then how yo'd deny me the one sole comfort left -- that there is a God, and that He set her her life. I dunnot believe she'll ever live again
I dunnot believe in any other life than this, in which she dreed such trouble, and had such never-ending care; and I cannot bear to think it were all a set o' chances, that might ha' been altered wi' a breath o' wind. There's many a time when I've thought I didna believe in God, but I've never put it fair out before me in words, as many men do. I may ha' laughed at those who did, to brave it out like -- but I have looked round at after, to see if He heard me, if so be there was a He; but to-day, when I'm left desolate, I wunnot listen to yo' wi' yo'r questions, and yo'r doubts. There's but one thing steady and quiet i' all this reeling world, and, reason or no reason, I'll cling to that. It's a' very well for happy folk
Nicholas, we do not want to reason; you misunderstand my father. We do not reason -- we believe; and so do you. It is the one sole comfort in such times
Ay! it is, it is --(brushing away the tears with the back of his hand
He's not an infidel, Margaret; how could you say so
I've a good mind to read him the fourteenth chapter of Job
Not yet, papa, I think. Perhaps not at all. Let us ask him about the strike, and give him all the sympathy he needs, and hoped to have from poor Bessy
them Irishers
And so the strike is at an end
You'll get work, shan't you
You're a famous workman, are not you
Hamper'll let me work at his mill, when he cuts off his right hand -- not before, and not after
About the wages
You'll not be offended, but I think you make some sad mistakes. I should like to read you some remarks in a book I have
'em as if they was vartues or vices; and what I wanted for to know were the rights o' men, whether they were rich or poor -- so be they only were men
But for all that
and granting to the full the offensiveness, the folly, the unchristianness of Mr. Hamper's way of speaking to you in recommending his friend's book, yet if it told you what he said it did, that wages find their own level, and that the most successful strike can only force them up for a moment, to sink in far greater proportion afterwards, in consequence of that very strike, the book would have told you the truth
Well, sir
I wish some of the kindest and wisest of the masters would meet some of you men, and have a good talk on these things; it would, surely, be the best way of getting over your difficulties, which, I do believe, arise from your ignorance -- excuse me, Mr. Higgins -- on subjects which it is for the mutual interest of both masters and men should be well understood by both. I wonder
if Mr. Thornton might not be induced to do such a thing
Remember, papa
what he said one day -- about governments, you know
Thornton! He's the chap as wrote off at once for these Irishers; and led to th' riot that ruined th' strike. Even Hamper wi' all his bullying, would ha' waited a while -- but it's a word and a blow wi' Thornton. And, now, when th' Union would ha' thanked him for following up th' chase after Boucher, and them chaps as went right again our commands, it's Thornton who steps forrard and coolly says that, as th' strike's at an end, he, as party injured, doesn't want to press the charge again the rioters. I thought he'd had more pluck. I thought he'd ha' carried his point, and had his revenge in an open way; but says he (one in court telled me his very words) "they are well known; they will find the natural punishment of their conduct, in the difficulty they will meet wi' in getting employment. That will be severe enough." I only wish they'd cotched Boucher, and had him up before Hamper. I see th' oud tiger setting on him! would he ha' let him off? Not he
Mr. Thornton was right
My daughter is no great friend of Mr. Thornton's
but I believe what she says is the truth. I like him for it
Well, sir, this strike has been a weary piece o' business to me; and yo'll not wonder if I'm a bit put out wi' seeing it fail, just for a few men who would na suffer in silence, and hou'd out, brave and firm
You forget
I don't know much of Boucher; but the only time I saw him it was not his own sufferings he spoke of, but those of his sick wife -- his little children
How came he into the Union
You don't seem to have much respect for him; nor gained much good from having him in
It's not for me to speak o' th' Union. What they does, they does. Them that is of a trade mun hang together; and if they're not willing to take their chance along wi' th' rest, th' Union has ways and means
And what are the Union's ways and means
bout folk asking him what 's the matter?)-- just yo' try that, miss -- ten hours for three hundred days, and yo'll know a bit what th' Union is
Why
what tyranny this is! Nay, Higgins, I don't care one straw for your anger. I know you can't be angry with me if you would, and I must tell you the truth: that I never read, in all the history I have read, of a more slow, lingering torture than this. And you belong to the Union! And you talk of the tyranny of the masters
Nay
Oh
your Union in itself would be beautiful, glorious,-- it would be Christianity itself -- if it were but for an end which affected the good of all, instead of that of merely one class as opposed to another
I reckon it's time for me to be going, sir
Home
Home, miss. Yo' may trust me, tho' I am one o' th' Union
I do trust you most thoroughly, Nicholas
Stay
Mr. Higgins! I'm sure you'll join us in family prayer
Some wishes crossed my mind and dimly cheered it, And one or two poor melancholy pleasures, Each in the pale unwarming light of hope, Silvering its flimsy wing, flew silent by -- Moths in the moonbeam
Oh, Margaret, it is worth a journey from England to see my boy! He is a superb little fellow, especially in his caps, and most especially in the one you sent him, you good, dainty-fingered, persevering little lady! Having made all the mothers here envious, I want to show him to somebody new, and hear a fresh set of admiring expressions; perhaps, that's all the reason; perhaps it is not -- nay, possibly, there is just a little cousinly love mixed with it; but I do want you so much to come here, Margaret! I'm sure it would be the very best thing for Aunt Hale's health; everybody here is young and well, and our skies are always blue, and our sun always shines, and the band plays deliciously from morning till night; and, to come back to the burden of my ditty, my baby always smiles. I am constantly wanting you to draw him for me, Margaret. It does not signify what he is doing; that very thing is prettiest, gracefulest, best. I think I love him a great deal better than my husband, who is getting stout, and grumpy,-- what he calls "busy." No! he is not. He has just come in with news of such a charming pic-nic, given by the officers of the Hazard, at anchor in the bay below. Because he has brought in such a pleasant piece of news, I retract all I said just now. Did not somebody burn his hand for having said or done something he was sorry for? Well, I can't burn mine, because it would hurt me, and the scar would be ugly; but I'll retract all I said as fast as I can. Cosmo is quite as great a darling as baby, and not a bit stout, and as un-grumpy as ever husband was; only, sometimes he is very, very busy. I may say that without love -- wifely duty -- where was I?-- I had something very particular to say, I know, once. Oh, it is this -- Dearest Margaret!-- you must come and see me; it would do Aunt Hale good, as I said before. Get the doctor to order it for her. Tell him that it's the smoke of Milton that does her harm. I have no doubt it is that, really. Three months (you must not come for less) of this delicious climate -- all sunshine, and grapes as common as blackberries, would quite cure her. I don't ask my uncle
because, I dare say, he disapproves of war, and soldiers, and bands of music; at least, I know that many Dissenters are members of the Peace Society, and I am afraid he would not like to come; but, if he would, dear, pray say that Cosmo and I will do our best to make him happy; and I'll hide up Cosmo's red coat and sword, and make the band play all sorts of grave, solemn things; or, if they do play pomps and vanities, it shall be in double slow time. Dear Margaret, if he would like to accompany you and Aunt Hale, we will try and make it pleasant, though I'm rather afraid of any one who has done something for conscience sake. You never did, I hope. Tell Aunt Hale not to bring many warm clothes, though I'm afraid it will be late in the year before you can come. But you have no idea of the heat here! I tried to wear my great beauty Indian shawl at a pic-nic. I kept myself up with proverbs as long as I could; "Pride must abide,"-- and such wholesome pieces of pith; but it was of no use. I was like mamma's little dog Tiny with an elephant's trappings on; smothered, hidden, killed with my finery; so I made it into a capital carpet for us all to sit down upon. Here's this boy of mine, Margaret,-- if you don't pack up your things as soon as you get this letter, a come straight off to see him, I shall think you're descended from King Herod
What were you laughing at, Margaret
A letter I have had this morning from Edith. Shall I read it you, mamma
Do you know, Margaret, I really begin quite to like Mr. Thornton
Do you
Yes! I think he is really getting quite polished in his manners
He is very kind and attentive,-- there is no doubt of that
I wonder Mrs. Thornton never calls. She must know I am ill, because of the water-bed
I dare say, she hears how you are from her son
Still, I should like to see her You have so few friends here, Margaret
Do you think
that you could go and ask Mrs. Thornton to come and see me? Only once,-- I don't want to be troublesome
I will do anything, if you wish it, mamma,-- but if -- but when Frederick comes
Ah, to be sure! we must keep our doors shut,-- we must let no one in. I hardly know whether I dare wish him to come or not. Sometimes I think I would rather not. Sometimes I have such frightful dreams about him
Oh, mamma! we'll take good care. I will put my arm in the bolt sooner than he should come to the slightest harm. Trust the care of him to me, mamma. I will watch over him like a lioness over her young
When can we hear from him
Not for a week yet, certainly,-- perhaps more
We must send Martha away in good time. It would never do to have her here when he comes, and then send her off in a hurry
Dixon is sure to remind us of that. I was thinking that, if we wanted any help in the house while he is here, we could perhaps get Mary Higgins. She is very slack of work, and is a good girl, and would take pains to do her best, I am sure, and would sleep at home, and need never come upstairs, so as to know who is in the house
As you please. As Dixon pleases. But, Margaret, don't get to use these horrid Milton words. "Slack of work:" it is a provincialism. What will your aunt Shaw say, if she hears you use it on her return
Oh, mamma! don't try and make a bugbear of aunt Shaw' said Margaret, laughing. 'Edith picked up all sorts of military slang from Captain Lennox, and aunt Shaw never took any notice of it
But yours is factory slang
And if I live in a factory town, I must speak factory language when I want it. Why, mamma, I could astonish you with a great many words you never heard in your life. I don't believe you know what a knobstick is
Not I, child. I only know it has a very vulgar sound and I don't want to hear you using it
Very well, dearest mother, I won't. Only I shall have to use a whole explanatory sentence instead
I don't like this Milton
Edith is right enough in saying it's the smoke that has made me so ill
Mamma is accusing me of having picked up a great deal of vulgarity since we came to Milton
Now, Mr. Thornton, though "knobstick" has not a very pretty sound, is it not expressive? Could I do without it, in speaking of the thing it represents? If using local words is vulgar, I was very vulgar in the Forest,-- was I not, mamma
The saddest birds a season find to sing
Never to fold the robe o'er secret pain, Never, weighed down by memory's clouds again, To bow thy head! Thou art gone home
Margaret -- you have a daughter -- my sister is in Italy. My child will be without a mother;-- in a strange place,-- if I die -- will you
You wish me to be a friend to Miss Hale
I will. be a true friend, if circumstances require it Not a tender friend. That I cannot be
to her
It is not my nature to show affection even where I feel it, nor do I volunteer advice in general. Still, at your request,-- if it will be any comfort to you, I will promise you
I promise
I promise that in any difficulty in which Miss Hale
Call her Margaret
In which she comes to me for help, I will help her with every power I have, as if she were my own daughter. I also promise that if ever I see her doing what I think is wrong
But Margaret never does wrong -- not wilfully wrong
If ever I see her doing what I believe to be wrong -- such wrong not touching me or mine, in which case I might be supposed to have an interested motive -- I will tell her of it, faithfully and plainly, as I should wish my own daughter to be told
I thank you. I pray God to bless you. I shall never see you again in this world. But my last words are, I thank you for your promise of kindness to my child
Not kindness
Is this Mr. Hale's
Frederick
Oh, Margaret
My mother! is she alive
Yes, she is alive, dear, dear brother! She -- as ill as she can be she is; but alive! She is alive
Thank God
Papa is utterly prostrate with this great grief
You expect me, don't you
No, we have had no letter
Then I have come before it. But my mother knows I am coming
Oh! we all knew you would come. But wait a little! Step in here. Give me your hand. What is this? Oh! your carpet-bag. Dixon has shut the shutters; but this is papa's study, and I can take you to a chair to rest yourself for a few minutes; while I go and tell him
Papa
Papa! guess who is here
I don't know. Don't tell me it is Frederick -- not Frederick. I cannot bear it,-- I am too weak. And his mother is dying
Papa, it is Frederick! Think of mamma, how glad she will be! And oh, for her sake, how glad we ought to be! For his sake, too,-- our poor, poor boy
Where is he
In your study, quite alone. I lighted the taper, and ran up to tell you. He is quite alone, and will be wondering why
I will go to him
Dixon says it is a gift to light a fire; not an art to be acquired
Poeta nascitur, non fit
Dear old Dixon! How we shall kiss each other
She used to kiss me, and then look in my face to be sure I was the right person, and then set to again! But, Margaret, what a bungler you are! I never saw such a little awkward, good-for-nothing pair of hands. Run away, and wash them, ready to cut bread-and-butter for me, and leave the fire. I'll manage it. Lighting fires is one of my natural accomplishments
Master Frederick
I am very selfish
but it will not be for long
I don't believe it
She is very ill; she may be dangerously ill, and in immediate danger, too; but I can't imagine that she could be as she is, if she were on the point of death. Margaret! she should have some other advice -- some London doctor. Have you never thought of that
Yes
more than once. But I don't believe it would do any good. And, you know, we have not the money to bring any great London surgeon down, and I am sure Dr. Donaldson is only second in skill to the very best,-- if, indeed, he is to them
I have credit in Cadiz
but none here, owing to this wretched change of name. Why did my father leave Helstone? That was the blunder
It was no blunder
And above all possible chances, avoid letting papa hear anything like what you have just been saying. I can see that he is tormenting himself already with the idea that mamma would never have been ill if we had stayed at Helstone, and you don't know papa's agonising power of self-reproach
My little Margaret
Let us hope as long as we can. Poor little woman! what! is this face all wet with tears? I will hope. I will, in spite of a thousand doctors. Bear up, Margaret, and be brave enough to hope
I must try to be meek enough to trust. Oh, Frederick! mamma was getting to love me so! And I was getting to understand her. And now comes death to snap us asunder
Come, come, come! Let us go up-stairs, and do something, rather than waste time that may be so precious. Thinking has, many a time, made me sad, darling; but doing never did in all my life. My theory is a sort of parody on the maxim of "Get money, my son, honestly if you can; but get money." My precept is, "Do something, my sister, do good if you can; but, at any rate, do something
Not excluding mischief
By no means. What I do exclude is the remorse afterwards. Blot your misdeeds out (if you are particularly conscientious), by a good deed, as soon as you can; just as we did a correct sum at school on the slate, where an incorrect one was only half rubbed out. It was better than wetting our sponge with our tears; both less loss of time where tears had to be waited for, and a better effect at last
Poor boy! poor boy
Let not your heart be troubled
Show not that manner, and these features all, The serpent's cunning, and the sinner's fall
Come, Miss Hale -- come, my dear! You must not give way, or where shall we all be? There is not another person in the house fit to give a direction of any kind, and there is so much to be done. There's who's to manage the funeral; and who's to come to it; and where it's to be; and all to be settled: and Master Frederick's like one crazed with crying, and master never was a good one for settling; and, poor gentleman, he goes about now as if he was lost. It's bad enough, my dear, I know; but death comes to us all; and you're well off never to have lost any friend till now
Ask Mr. Bell
Mr. Bell
Mr. Bell of Oxford
Mr. Bell
Yes. He was my groom's-man
I will write to-day
I've done it, miss. I was really afraid for master, that he'd have a stroke with grief. He's been all this day with poor missus; and when I've listened at the door, I've heard him talking to her, and talking to her, as if she was alive. When I went in he would be quite quiet, but all in a maze like. So I thought to myself, he ought to be roused; and if it gives him a shock at first, it will, maybe, be the better afterwards. So I've been and told him, that I don't think it's safe for Master Frederick to be here. And I don't. It was only on Tuesday, when I was out, that I met-a Southampton man -- the first I've seen since I came to Milton; they don't make their way much up here, I think. Well, it was young Leonards, old Leonards the draper's son, as great a scamp as ever lived -- who plagued his father almost to death, and then ran off to sea. I never could abide him. He was in the Orion at the same time as Master Frederick, I know; though I don't recollect if he was there at the mutiny
Did he know you
Why, that's the worst of it. I don't believe he would have known me but for my being such a fool as to call out his name. He were a Southampton man, in a strange place, or else I should never have been so ready to call cousins with him, a nasty, good-for-nothing fellow. Says he, "Miss Dixon! who would ha' thought of seeing you here? But perhaps I mistake, and you're Miss Dixon no longer?" So I told him he might still address me as an unmarried lady, though if I hadn't been so particular, I'd had good chances of matrimony. He was polite enough: "He couldn't look at me and doubt me." But I were not to be caught with such chaff from such a fellow as him, and so I told him; and, by way of being even, I asked him after his father (who I knew had turned him out of doors), as if they was the best friends as ever was. So then, to spite me -- for you see we were getting savage, for all we were so civil to each other -- he began to inquire after Master Frederick, and said, what a scrape he'd got into (as if Master Frederick's scrapes would ever wash George Leonards' white, or make 'em look otherwise than nasty, dirty black), and how he'd be hung for mutiny if ever he were caught, and how a hundred pound reward had been offered for catching him, and what a disgrace he had been to his family -- all to spite me, you see, my dear, because before now I've helped old Mr. Leonards to give George a good rating, down in Southampton. So I said, there were other families be thankful if they could think they were earning an honest living as I knew, who had far more cause to blush for their sons, and to far away from home. To which he made answer, like the impudent chap he is, that he were in a confidential situation, and if I knew of any young man who had been so unfortunate as to lead vicious courses, and wanted to turn steady, he'd have no objection to lend him his patronage. He, indeed! Why, he'd corrupt a sairt. I've not felt so bad myself for years as when I were standing talking to him the other day. I could have cried to think I couldn't spite him better, for he kept smiling in my face, as if he took all my compliments for earnest; and I couldn't see that he minded what I said in the least, while I was mad with all his speeches
But you did not tell him anything about us -- about Frederick
Not I
He had never the grace to ask where I was staying; and I shouldn't have told him if he had asked. Nor did I ask him what his precious situation was. He was waiting for a bus, and just then it drove up, and he hailed it. But, to plague me to the last, he turned back before he got in, and said, "If you can help me to trap Lieutenant Hale, Miss Dixon, we'll go partners in the reward. I know you'd like to be my partner, now wouldn't you? Don't be shy, but say yes." And he jumped on the bus, and I saw his ugly face leering at me with a wicked smile to think how he'd had the last word of plaguing
Have you told Frederick
No
I were uneasy in my mind at knowing that bad Leonards was in town; but there was so much else to think about that I did not dwell on it at all. But when I saw master sitting so stiff, and with his eyes so glazed and sad, I thought it might rouse him to have to think of Master Frederick's safety a bit. So I told him all, though I blushed to say how a young man had been speaking to me. And it has done master good. And if we're to keep Master Frederick in hiding, he would have to go, poor fellow, before Mr. Bell came
Oh, I'm not afraid of Mr. Bell; but I am afraid of this Leonards. I must tell Frederick. What did Leonards look like
A bad-looking fellow, I can assure you, miss. Whiskers such as I should be ashamed to wear -- they are so red. And for all he said he'd got a confidential situation, he was dressed in fustian just like a working-man
How wan you look, Margaret
You have been thinking of everybody, and no one has thought of you. Lie on this sofa -- there is nothing for you to do
That is the worst
I should just like to have it out with that young fellow. A worse sailor was never on board ship -- nor a much worse man either. I declare, Margaret -- you know the circumstances of the whole affair
Yes, mamma told me
Well, when all the sailors who were good for anything were indignant with our captain, this fellow, to curry favour -- pah! And to think of his being here! Oh, if he'd a notion I was within twenty miles of him, he'd ferret me out to pay off old grudges. I'd rather anybody had the hundred pounds they think I am worth than that rascal. What a pity poor old Dixon could not be persuaded to give me up, and make a provision for her old age
Oh, Frederick, hush! Don't talk so
My boy, you must go. It is very bad -- but I see you must. You have done all you could -- you have been a comfort to her
Oh, papa, must he go
I declare, I've a good mind to face it out, and stand my trial. If I could only pick up my evidence! I cannot endure the thought of being in the power of such a blackguard as Leonards. I could almost have enjoyed -- in other circumstances -- this stolen visit: it has had all the charm which the French-woman attributed to forbidden pleasures
One of the earliest things I can remember
was your being in some great disgrace, Fred, for stealing apples. We had plenty of our own -- trees loaded with them; but some one had told you that stolen fruit tasted sweetest, which you took au pied de la lettre, and off you went a-robbing. You have not changed your feelings much since then
Yes -- you must go
Do you know, Margaret, I was very nearly giving both Dixon and myself a good fright this afternoon. I was in my bedroom; I had heard a ring at the front door, but I thought the ringer must have done his business and gone away long ago; so I was on the point of making my appearance in the passage, when, as I opened my room door, I saw Dixon coming downstairs; and she frowned and kicked me into hiding again. I kept the door open, and heard a message given to some man that was in my father's study, and that then went away. Who could it have been? Some of the shopmen
Very likely
But this was not a little man -- a great powerful fellow; and it was past four when he was here
It was Mr. Thornton
Mr. Thornton
I thought
Well, little one, what did you think
Oh, only
I fancied you meant some one of a different class, not a gentleman; somebody come on an errand
He looked like some one of that kind
I took him for a shopman, and he turns out a manufacturer
He came to offer any assistance in his power, I believe. But I could not see him. I told Dixon to ask him if he would like to see you -- I think I asked her to find you, and you would go to him. I don't know what I said
He has been a very agreeable acquaintance, has he not
A very kind friend
Margaret, it is painful to think I can never thank those who have shown you kindness. Your acquaintances and mine must be separate. Unless, indeed, I run the chances of a court-martial, or unless you and my father would come to Spain
You don't know how I wish you would. I have a good position -- the chance of a better
That Dolores Barbour that I was telling you of, Margaret -- I only wish you knew her; I am sure you would like -- no, love is the right word, like is so poor -- you would love her, father, if you knew her. She is not eighteen; but if she is in the same mind another year, she is to be my wife. Mr. Barbour won't let us call it an engagement. But if you would come, you would find friends everywhere, besides Dolores. Think of it, father. Margaret, be on my side
No -- no more removals for me
One removal has cost me my wife. No more removals in this life. She will be here; and here will I stay out my appointed time
Oh, Frederick
tell us more about her. I never thought of this; but I am so glad. You will have some one to love and care for you out there. Tell us all about it
In the first place, she is a Roman Catholic. That's the only objection I anticipated. But my father's change of opinion -- nay, Margaret, don't sigh
But for her sake, Fred, you surely will try and clear yourself of the exaggerated charges brought against you, even if the charge of mutiny itself be true. If there were to be a court-martial, and you could find your witnesses, you might, at any rate, show how your disobedience to authority was because that authority was unworthily exercised
In the first place, Margaret, who is to hunt up my witnesses? All of them are sailors, drafted off to other ships, except those whose evidence would go for very little, as they took part, or sympathised in the affair. In the next place, allow me to tell you, you don't know what a court-martial is, and consider it as an assembly where justice is administered, instead of what it really is -- a court where authority weighs nine-tenths in the balance, and evidence forms only the other tenth. In such cases, evidence itself can hardly escape being influenced by the prestige of authority
But is it not worth trying, to see how much evidence might be discovered and arrayed on your behalf? At present, all those who knew you formerly, believe you guilty without any shadow of excuse. You have never tried to justify yourself, and we have never known where to seek for proofs of your justification. Now, for Miss Barbour's sake, make your conduct as clear as you can in the eye of the world. She may not care for it; she has, I am sure, that trust in you that we all have; but you ought not to let her ally herself to one under such a serious charge, without showing the world exactly how it is you stand. You disobeyed authority -- that was bad; but to have stood by, without word or act, while the authority was brutally used, would have been infinitely worse. People know what you did; but not the motives that elevate it out of a crime into an heroic protection of the weak. For Dolores' sake, they ought to know
But how must I make them know? I am not sufficiently sure of the purity and justice of those who would be my judges, to give myself up to a court-martial, even if I could bring a whole array of truth-speaking witnesses. I can't send a bellman about, to cry aloud and proclaim in the streets what you are pleased to call my heroism. No one would read a pamphlet of self-justification so long after the deed, even if I put one out
Will you consult a lawyer as to your chances of exculpation
I must first catch my lawyer, and have a look at him, and see how I like him, before I make him into my confidant. Many a briefless barrister might twist his conscience into thinking, that he could earn a hundred pounds very easily by doing a good action -- in giving me, a criminal, up to justice
Nonsense, Frederick!-- because I know a lawyer on whose honour I can rely; of whose cleverness in his profession people speak very highly; and who would, I think, take a good deal of trouble for any of -- of Aunt Shaw's relations Mr. Henry Lennox, papa
I think it is a good idea
But don't propose anything which will detain Frederick in England. Don't, for your mother's sake
You could go to London to-morrow evening by a night-train
He must go to-morrow, I'm afraid, papa
we fixed that, because of Mr. Bell, and Dixon's disagreeable acquaintance
Yes; I must go to-morrow
I can't bear to part with you, and yet I am miserable with anxiety as long as you stop here
Well then
listen to my plan. He gets to London on Friday morning. I will -- you might -- no! it would be better for me to give him a note to Mr. Lennox. You will find him at his chambers in the Temple
I will write down a list of all the names I can remember on board the Orion. I could leave it with him to ferret them out. He is Edith's husband's brother, isn't he? I remember your naming him in your letters. I have money in Barbour's hands. I can pay a pretty long bill, if there is any chance of success Money, dear father, that I had meant for a different purpose; so I shall only consider it as borrowed from you and Margaret
Don't do that
You won't risk it if you do. And it will be a risk only it is worth trying. You can sail from London as well as from Liverpool
To be sure, little goose. Wherever I feel water heaving under a plank, there I feel at home. I'll pick up some craft or other to take me off, never fear. I won't stay twenty-four hours in London, away from you on the one hand, and from somebody else on the other
Now you would like to see that, wouldn't you
No! you must wait till you see her herself She is too perfect to be known by fragments. No mean brick shall be a specimen of the building of my palace
What! remain to be Denounced -- dragged, it may be, in chains
You will go with Frederick to the station, Margaret? I shall want to know he is safely off. You will bring me word that he is clear of Milton, at any rate
Certainly
I shall like it, if you won't be lonely without me, papa
No, no! I should always be fancying some one had known him, and that he had been stopped, unless you could tell me you had seen him off. And go to the Outwood station. It is quite as near, and not so many people about. Take a cab there. There is less risk of his being seen. What time is your train, Fred
Ten minutes past six; very nearly dark. So what will you do, Margaret
Oh, I can manage. I am getting very brave and very hard. it is a well-lighted road all the way home, if it should be dark. But I was out last week much later
Margaret! I am going to consult Mr. Lennox as to the chance of exculpating myself, so that I may return to England whenever I choose, more for your sake than for the sake of any one else. I can't bear to think of your lonely position if anything should happen to my father. He looks sadly changed -- terribly shaken. I wish you could get him to think of the Cadiz plan, for manyreasons. What could you do if he were taken away? You have nofriend near. We are curiously bare of relations
There have been such strange unexpected changes in my life during these last two years, that I feel more than ever that it is not worth while to calculate too closely what I should do if any future event took place. I try to think only upon the present
We shall write often to one another, and I will promise -- for I see it will set your mind at ease -- to tell you every worry I have. Papa
Who is that
Mr. Thornton; you saw him before, you know
Only his back. He is an unprepossessing-looking fellow. What a scowl he has
Something has happened to vex him
You would not have thought him unprepossessing if you had seen him with mamma
I fancy it must be time to go and take my ticket. If I had known how dark it would be, we wouldn't have sent back the cab, Margaret
Oh, don't fidget about that. I can take a cab here, if I like; or go back by the rail-road, when I should have shops and people and lamps all the way from the Milton station-house. Don't think of me; take care of yourself. I am sick with the thought that Leonards may be in the same train with you. Look well into the carriage before you get in
Have you got your bag? Let us walk about here on the platform
By your leave, miss
Your name is Hale, I believe
Run, run
The train is here. It was Leonards, was it? oh, run! I will carry your bag
God bless you, Margaret
So Leonards has been drinking again
He'll need all his boasted influence to keep his place this time
Where is he
I don't know. He came in not five minutes ago, with some long story or other about a fall he'd had, swearing awfully; and wanted to borrow some money from me to go to London by the next up-train. He made all sorts of tipsy promises, but I'd something else to do than listen to him; I told him to go about his business; and he went off at the front door
He's at the nearest vaults, I'll be bound
Your money would have gone there too, if you'd been such a fool as to lend it
Catch me! I knew better what his London meant. Why, he has never paid me off that five
Sleep on, my love, in thy cold bed, Never to be disquieted! My last Good Night -- thou wilt not wake Till I thy fate shall overtake
I suppose we shall hear from Mr. Bell to-morrow
Yes
I suppose so
If he can come, he will be here to-morrow evening, I should think
If he cannot come, I shall ask Mr. Thornton to go with me to the funeral. I cannot go alone. I should break down utterly
Don't ask Mr. Thornton, papa. Let me go with you
You! My dear, women do not generally go
No: because they can't control themselves. Women of our class don't go, because they have no power over their emotions, and yet are ashamed of showing them. Poor women go, and don't care if they are seen overwhelmed with grief. But I promise you, papa, that if you will let me go, I will be no trouble. Don't have a stranger, and leave me out. Dear papa! if Mr. Bell cannot come, I shall go. I won't urge my wish against your will, if he does
Oh, don't let us have these forms
Let us go alone -- you and me, papa. They don't care for us, or else he would have offered to go himself, and not have proposed this sending an empty carriage
I thought you were so extremely averse to his going, Margaret
And so I am. I don't want him to come at all; and I should especially dislike the idea of our asking him. But this seems such a mockery of mourning that I did not expect it from him
Pray for me, Margaret. I have no strength left in me. I cannot pray. I give her up because I must. I try to bear it: indeed I do. I know it is God's will. But I cannot see why she died. Pray for me, Margaret, that I may have faith to pray. It is a great strait, my child
I beg your pardon,-- but, can you tell me how Mr. Hale is? And Miss Hale, too? I should like to know how they both are
Of course, sir. They are much as is to be expected. Master is terribly broke down. Miss Hale bears up better than likely
Miserably disturbed
I suppose I may call
On Mr. Hale, I mean. He will perhaps admit me after to-morrow or so
I dare say, sir, master will see you. He was very sorry to have to deny you the other day; but circumstances was not agreeable just then
Truth will fail thee never, never! Though thy bark be tempest-driven, Though each plank be rent and riven, Truth will bear thee on for ever
Miss Hale, you are wanted
What is it, Dixon
Come this way, miss
It's nothing, miss
Only a police-inspector. He wants to see you, miss. But I dare say, it's about nothing at all
Did he name
No, miss; he named nothing. He only asked if you lived here, and if he could speak to you. Martha went to the door, and let him in; she has shown him into master's study. I went to him myself, to try if that would do; but no -- it's you, miss, he wants
Take care papa does not come down. Mr. Thornton is with him now
I beg your pardon, ma'am, but my duty obliges me to ask you a few plain questions. A man has died at the Infirmary, in consequence of a fall, received at Outwood station, between the hours of five and six on Thursday evening, the twenty-sixth instant. At the time, this fall did not seem of much consequence; but it was rendered fatal, the doctors say, by the presence of some internal complaint, and the man's own habit of drinking
Well -- go on
It is supposed that an inquest will have to be held; there is some slight evidence to prove that the blow, or push, or scuffle that caused the fall, was provoked by this poor fellow's half-tipsy impertinence to a young lady, walking with the man who pushed the deceased over the edge of the platform. This much was observed by some one on the platform, who, however, thought no more about the matter, as the blow seemed of slight consequence. There is also some reason to identify the lady with yourself; in which case
I was not there
Then, madam, I have your denial that you were the lady accompanying the gentleman who struck the blow, or gave the push, which caused the death of this poor man
Oh God! that I knew Frederick were safe
I was not there
persist in deposing to your presence at the unfortunate event
It is very unlikely, ma'am, that I shall have to do anything of the kind. I hope you will excuse me for doing what is only my duty, although it may appear impertinent
There's nought so finely spun But it cometh to the sun
Don't go yet
Of death, and of the heavy lull, And of the brain that has grown dull
E par che de la sua labbia si mova Uno spirto soave e pien d'amore, Chi va dicendo a l'anima: sospira
a dog, and done this thing
My name is Watson -- George Watson, sir, that you got
Ah, yes! I recollect. Why you are getting on famously, I hear
Yes, sir. I ought to thank you, sir. But it is on a little matter of business I made so bold as to speak to you now. I believe you were the magistrate who attended to take down the deposition of a poor man who died in the Infirmary last night
Yes
I went and heard some kind of a rambling statement, which the clerk said was of no great use. I'm afraid he was but a drunken fellow, though there is no doubt he came to his death by violence at last. One of my mother's servants was engaged to him, I believe, and she is in great distress to-day. What about him
Why, sir, his death is oddly mixed up with somebody in the house I saw you coming out of just now; it was a Mr. Hale's, I believe
Yes
What about it
Why, sir, it seems to me that I have got a pretty distinct chain of evidence, inculpating a gentleman who was walking with Miss Hale that night at the Outwood station, as the man who struck or pushed Leonards off the platform and so caused his death. But the young lady denies that she was there at the time
Miss Hale denies she was there
Tell me, what evening was it? What time
You see, sir, there is like to be a coroner's inquest; and I've got a young man who is pretty positive,-- at least he was at first;-- since he has heard of the young lady's denial, he says he should not like to swear; but still he's pretty positive that he saw Miss Hale at the station, walking about with a gentleman, not five minutes before the time, when one of the porters saw a scuffle, which he set down to some of Leonards' impudence -- but which led to the fall which caused his death. And seeing you come out of the very house, sir, I thought I might make bold to ask if -- you see, it's always awkward having to do with cases of disputed identity, and one doesn't like to doubt the word of a respectable young woman unless one has strong proof to the contrary
And she denied having been at the station that evening
Yes, sir, twice over, as distinct as could be. I told her I should call again, but seeing you just as I was on my way back from questioning the young man who said it was her, I thought I would ask your advice, both as the magistrate who saw Leonards on his death-bed, and as the gentleman who got me my berth in the force
You were quite right
Don't take any steps till you have seen me again
The young lady will expect me to call, from what I said
I only want to delay you an hour. It's now three. Come to my warehouse at four
Very well, sir
There will be no inquest. Medical evidence not sufficient to justify it. Take no further steps. I have not seen the corner; but I will take the responsibility
Well
it relieves me from an awkward job. None of my witnesses seemed certain of anything except the young woman. She was clear and distinct enough; the porter at the rail-road had seen a scuffle; or when he found it was likely to bring him in as a witness, then it might not have been a scuffle, only a little larking, and Leonards might have jumped off the platform himself;-- he would not stick firm to anything. And Jennings, the grocer's shopman,-- well, he was not quite so bad, but I doubt if I could have got him up to an oath after he heard that Miss Hale flatly denied it. It would have been a troublesome job and no satisfaction. And now I must go and tell them they won't be wanted
You will go to bed soon, papa, won't you? Don't sit up alone
Don't come; I will open the door. I know it is him -- I can -- I must manage it all myself
As you please, miss
But you're not fit for it. You are more dead than alive
Am I
You are late
Well
I'm sorry to have given any unnecessary trouble, ma'am; for, after all, they've given up all thoughts of holding an inquest. I have had other work to do and other people to see, or I should have been here before now
Then it is ended
There is to be no further enquiry
I believe I've got Mr. Thornton's note about me
Mr. Thornton's
Yes! he's a magistrate -- ah! here it is
I'm sure, ma'am, it's a great weight off my mind; for the evidence was so uncertain, you see, that the man had received any blow at all,-- and if any question of identity came in, it so complicated the case, as I told Mr. Thornton
Mr. Thornton
I met him this morning, just as he was coming out of this house, and, as he's an old friend of mine, besides being the magistrate who saw Leonards last night, I made bold to tell him of my difficulty
I think it is a cramped, dazzling sort of writing. I could not read it; will you just read it to me
Thank you. You told Mr. Thornton that I was not there
Oh, of course, ma'am. I'm sorry now that I acted upon information, which seems to have been so erroneous. At first the young man was so positive; and now he says that he doubted all along, and hopes that his mistake won't have occasioned you such annoyance as to lose their shop your custom. Good night, ma'am
Good night
It is all right
Oh, Frederick! Frederick
what have I not sacrificed for you
Here's something to do you good, miss. A letter from Master Frederick
Thank you, Dixon. How late it is
You want your breakfast, I'm sure. I will bring it you in a minute. Master has got the tray all ready, I know
It struck me' said Frederick, 'that your introduction, little sister of mine, went a long way. Is it so? He made many inquiries, I can assure you. He seemed a sharp, intelligent fellow, and in good practice too, to judge from the signs of business and the number of clerks about him. But these may be only lawyer's dodges. I have just caught a packet on the point of sailing -- I am off in five minutes. I may have to come back to England again on this business, so keep my visit secret. I shall send my father some rare old sherry, such as you cannot buy in England,--(such stuff as I've got in the bottle before me)! He needs something of the kind -- my dear love to him -- God bless him. I'm sure -- here's my cab. P.S.-- What an escape that was! Take care you don't breathe of my having been -- not even to the Shaws
Too late
Fais ce que dois, advienne que pourra
You are sadly overdone, Margaret. It is no wonder. But you must let me nurse you now
Poor child!-- poor child
It seems strange to think, that what gives us most hope for the future should be called Dolores
Her mother was a Spaniard, I believe: that accounts for her religion. Her father was a stiff Presbyterian when I knew him. But it is a very soft and pretty name
How young she is!-- younger by fourteen months than I am. Just, the age that Edith was when she was engaged to Captain Lennox. Papa, we will go and see them in Spain
If you wish it, Margaret. Only let us come back here. It would seem unfair -- unkind to your mother, who always, I'm afraid, disliked Milton so much, if we left it now she is lying here, and cannot go with us. No, dear; you shall go and see them, and bring me back a report of my Spanish daughter
No, papa, I won't go without you. Who is to take care of you when I am gone
I should like to know which of us is taking care of the other. But if you went, I should persuade Mr. Thornton to let me give him double lessons. We would work up the classics famously. That would be a perpetual interest. You might go on, and see Edith at Corfu, if you liked
Thank you, papa. But I don't want to go. We will hope that Mr. Lennox will manage so well, that Frederick may bring Dolores to see us when they are married. And as for Edith, the regiment won't remain much longer in Corfu. Perhaps we shall see both of them here before another year is out
Papa -- did you see Nicholas Higgins at the funeral? He was there, and Mary too. Poor fellow! it was his way of showing sympathy. He has a good warm heart under his bluff abrupt ways
I am sure of it
I saw it all along, even while you tried to persuade me that he was all sorts of bad things. We will go and see them to-morrow, if you are strong enough to walk so far
Oh yes. I want to see them. We did not pay Mary -- or rather she refused to take it, Dixon says. We will go so as to catch him just after his dinner, and before he goes to his work
I half expected Mr. Thornton would have called. He spoke of a book yesterday which he had, and which I wanted to see. He said he would try and bring it to-day
with Mr. Thornton's kind regards, and wishes to know how Mr. Hale is
Say that I am much better, Dixon, but that Miss Hale
No, papa
don't say anything about me. He does not ask
My dear child, how you are shivering
You must go to bed directly. You have turned quite pale
The steps of the bearers, heavy and slow, The sobs of the mourners, deep and low
Sit ye down, sit ye down. Fire's welly out
We thought we should have a good chance of finding you, just after dinner-time
We have had our sorrow too, since we saw you
Ay, ay. Sorrows is more plentiful than dinners just now; I reckon, my dinner hour stretches all o'er the day; yo're pretty sure of finding me
Are you out of work
Ay
I'm not wanting brass. Dunno yo' think it. Bess, poor lass, had a little stock under her pillow, ready to slip into my hand, last moment, and Mary is fustian-cutting. But I'm out o' work a' the same
We owe Mary some money
But we owe her many thanks for her kind service
Is it because of the strike you're out of work
Strike's ended. It's o'er for this time. I'm out o' work because I ne'er asked for it. And I ne'er asked for it, because good words is scarce, and bad words is plentiful
And good words are
Asking for work. I reckon them's almost the best words that men can say. "Gi' me work" means "and I'll do it like a man." Them's good words
And bad words are refusing you work when you ask for it
Would it not be worth while
to ask your old master if he would take you back again? It might be a poor chance, but it would be a chance
Measter! if it's no offence, I'll ask yo' a question or two in my turn
You're quite welcome
You are quite right. I have some independent property, but my intention in settling in Milton was to become a private tutor
To teach folk. Well! I reckon they pay yo' for teaching them, dunnot they
Yes
I teach in order to get paid
No; to be sure not
No: to be sure not
Would yo' stand it if they did
It would be some very hard pressure that would make me even think of submitting to such dictation
Now yo've got it. Yo've hit the bull's eye. Hamper's -- that's where I worked -- makes their men pledge 'emselves they'll not give a penny to help th' Union or keep turnouts fro' clemming. They may pledge and make pledge
they nobbut make liars and hypocrites. And that's a less sin, to my mind, to making men's hearts so hard that they'll not do a kindness to them as needs it, or help on the right and just cause, though it goes again the strong hand. But I'll ne'er forswear mysel' for a' the work the king could gi'e me. I'm a member o' the Union; and I think it's the only thing to do the workman any good. And I've been a turn-out, and known what it were to clem; so if I get a shilling, sixpence shall go to them if they axe it from me. Consequence is, I dunnot see where I'm to get a shilling
Is that rule about not contributing to the Union in force at all the mills
I cannot say. It's a new regulation at ourn; and I reckon they'll find that they cannot stick to it. But it's in force now. By-and-by they'll find out, tyrants makes liars
Do you remember poor Boucher saying that the Union was a tyrant? I think he said it was the worst tyrant of all. And I remember at the time I agreed with him
He did you harm
Ay, that did he. We had public opinion on our side, till he and his sort began rioting and breaking laws. It were all o'er wi' the strike then
Then would it not have been far better to have left him alone, and not forced him to join the Union? He did you no good; and you drove him mad
Margaret
I like her
Hoo speaks plain out what's in her mind. Hoo doesn't comprehend th' Union for all that. It's a great power: it's our only power. I ha' read a bit o' poetry about a plough going o'er a daisy, as made tears come into my eyes, afore I'd other cause for crying. But the chap ne'er stopped driving the ploughI's, e warrant, for all he were pitiful about the daisy. He'd too much mother-wit for that. Th' Union's the plough, making ready the land for harvest-time. Such as Boucher
Why? What has he been doing? Anything fresh
Ay, to be sure. He's ne'er out o' mischief, that man. First of a' he must go raging like a mad fool, and kick up yon riot. Then he'd to go into hiding, where he'd a been yet, if Thornton had followed him out as I'd hoped he would ha' done. But Thornton, having got his own purpose, didn't care to go on wi' the prosecution for the riot. So Boucher slunk back again to his house. He ne'er showed himsel' abroad for a day or two. He had that grace. And then, where think ye that he went? Why, to Hamper's. Damn him! He went wi' his mealy-mouthed face, that turns me sick to look at, a-asking for work, though he knowed well enough the new rule, o' pledging themselves to give nought to th' Unions; nought to help the starving turn-out! Why he'd a clemmed to death, if th' Union had na helped him in his pinch. There he went, ossing to promise aught, and pledge himsel' to aught -- to tell a' he know'd on our proceedings, the good-for-nothing Judas! But I'll say this for Hamper, and thank him for it at my dying day, he drove Boucher away, and would na listen to him -- ne'er a word -- though folk standing by, says the traitor cried like a babby
Oh! how shocking! how pitiful
Higgins, I don't know you to-day. Don't you see how you've made Boucher what he is, by driving him into the Union against his will -- without his heart going with it. You have made him what he is
We found him i' th' brook in the field beyond there
Th' brook!-- why there's not water enough to drown him
He was a determined chap. He lay with his face downwards. He was sick enough o' living, choose what cause he had for it
It's not John Boucher? He had na spunk enough. Sure! It's not John Boucher! Why, they are a' looking this way! Listen! I've a singing in my head, and I cannot hear
Higgins, thou knowed him! Thou mun go tell the wife. Do it gently, man, but do it quick, for we canna leave him here long
I canna go
Dunnot ask me. I canna face her
Thou knows her best
I canna do it
I'm welly felled wi' seeing him. We wasn't friends; and now he's dead
Well, if thou wunnot thou wunnot. Some one mun, though. It's a dree task; but it's a chance, every minute, as she doesn't hear on it in some rougher way nor a person going to make her let on by degrees, as it were
Papa, do you go
If I could -- if I had time to think of what I had better say; but all at once
I will go
How are you, Mrs. Boucher? But very poorly, I'm afraid
I've no chance o' being well
I'm left alone to manage these childer, and nought for to give 'em for to keep 'em quiet. John should na ha' left me, and me so poorly
How long is it since he went away
Oh, don't blame him
He felt it deeply, I'm sure
Willto' hold thy din, and let me hear the lady speak
Poor little fellow
he ~was~ his father's darling
He ~is~ his father's darling
Oh, my God
He loved him
Ay
If it's only that he's ill and like to die, they may bring him round yet. I'm but an ailing creature mysel
But he is dead -- he is drowned
Open it. Open it quick
It's bolted; make no noise -- be very still. Oh, papa, let them go upstairs very softly and carefully, and perhaps she will not hear them. She has fainted -- that's all
It's as well for her, poor creature
But yo're not fit to hold her. Stay, I'll run fetch a pillow and we'll let her down easy on the floor
Can you give all these people a hint that they had better leave in quietness? So that when she comes round, she should only find one or two that she knows about her. Papa, will you speak to the men, and get them to go away? She cannot breathe, poor thing, with this crowd about her
What is it
Only our good friend here
hit on a capital expedient for clearing the place
I bid 'em begone, and each take a child with 'em, and to mind that they were orphans, and their mother a widow. It was who could do most, and the childer are sure of a bellyful to-day, and of kindness too. Does hoo know how he died
No
I could not tell her all at once
Hoo mun be told because of th' Inquest. See! Hoo's coming round; shall you or I do it? or mappen your father would be best
No; you, you
Neighbour
your man is dead. Guess yo' how he died
He were drowned
He were found drowned. He were coming home very hopeless o' aught on earth. He thought God could na be harder than men; mappen not so hard; mappen as tender as a mother; mappen tenderer. I'm not saying he did right, and I'm not saying he did wrong. All I say is, may neither me nor mine ever have his sore heart, or we may do like things
He has left me alone wi' a' these children
Not alone
Who is with you? Who will take up your cause
Who has promised to be a father to the fatherless
But I've getten six children, sir, and the eldest not eight years of age. I'm not meaning for to doubt His power, sir,-- only it needs a deal o' trust
Hoo'll be better able to talk to-morrow, sir
Best comfort now would be the feel of a child at her heart. I'm sorry they took the babby
I'll go for it
There
now you go. They'll cry together, and comfort together, better nor any one but a child can do. I'll stop with her as long as I'm needed, and if yo' come to-morrow, yo' can have a deal o' wise talk with her, that she's not up to to-day
Shall we go in
I was thinking of him too
Nicholas
Nicholas
It is only us. Won't you let us come in
No
bout using words, when I bolted th' door. Let me be, this day
I don't wonder at it
I myself long to be alone. It seems the only thing to do one good after a day like this
A spade! a rake! a hoe! A pickaxe or a bill! A hook to reap, or a scythe to mow, A flail, or what ye will -- And here's a ready hand To ply the needful tool, And skill'd enough, by lessons rough, In Labour's rugged school
Is yon thing upstairs really him? it doesna look like him. I'm feared on it, and I never was feared o' daddy
It is the town life
Their nerves are quickened by the haste and bustle and speed of everything around them, to say nothing of the confinement in these pent-up houses, which of itself is enough to induce depression and worry of spirits. Now in the country, people live so much more out of doors, even children, and even in the winter
But people must live in towns. And in the country some get such stagnant habits of mind that they are almost fatalists
Yes; I acknowledge that. I suppose each mode of life produces its own trials and its own temptations. The dweller in towns must find it as difficult to be patient and calm, as the country-bred man must find it to be active, and equal to unwonted emergencies. Both must find it hard to realise a future of any kind; the one because the present is so living and hurrying and close around him; the other because his life tempts him to revel in the mere sense of animal existence, not knowing of, and consequently not caring for any pungency of pleasure for the attainment of which he can plan, and deny himself and look forward
And thus both the necessity for engrossment, and the stupid content in the present, produce the same effects. But this poor Mrs. Boucher! how little we can do for her
And yet we dare not leave her without our efforts, although they may seem so useless. Oh papa! it's a hard world to live in
So it is, my child. We feel it so just now, at any rate; but we have been very happy, even in the midst of our sorrow. What a pleasure Frederick's visit was
Yes, that it was
It was such a charming, snatched, forbidden thing
I quite expected to have seen Mr. Thornton. I think the messenger who brought the book last night must have had some note, and forgot to deliver it. Do you think there has been any message left to-day
I will go and inquire, papa
Stay, there's a ring
It's that Higgins, sir. He wants to see you, or else Miss Hale. Or it might be Miss Hale first, and then you, sir; for he's in a strange kind of way. 'He had better come up here, Dixon; and then he can see us both, and choose which he likes for his listener
Sarvant, sir
If hoo'l excuse me (looking at Margaret) for being i' my stockings; I'se been tramping a' day, and streets is none o' th' cleanest
We shall have tea up directly, and then you'll take a cup with us, Mr. Higgins. I am sure you are tired, if you've been out much this wet relaxing day. Margaret, my dear, can't you hasten tea
Why master and you must always be asking the lower classes up-stairs, since we came to Milton, I cannot understand. Folk at Helstone were never brought higher than the kitchen; and I've let one or two of them know before now that they might think it an honour to be even there
Master
'em would. I'd set my teeth into my tongue sooner nor speak i' haste. For that man's sake -- yo' understand
No, I don't
That chap as lies theer
Him as went and drownded himself, poor chap! I did na' think he'd got it in him to lie still and let th' water creep o'er him till he died. Boucher, yo' know
Yes, I know now
Go back to what you were saying: you'd not speak in haste
For his sake. Yet not for his sake; for where'er he is, and whate'er, he'll ne'er know other clemming or cold again; but for the wife's sake, and the bits o' childer
God bless you
What do you mean? Tell me out
Theer, theer, master! Theer's ne'er a man, to call a man, amongst us, but what would do th' same; ay, and better too; for, belie' meI's, e ne'er got a stroke o' work, nor yet a sight of any. For all I telled Hamper that, let alone his pledge -- which I would not sign -- no, I could na, not e'en for this -- he'd ne'er ha' such a worker on his mill as I would be -- he'd ha' none o' me -- no more would none o' th' others. I'm a poor black feckless sheep -- childer may clem for aught I can do, unless, parson, yo'd help me
Help you! How? I would do anything,-- but what can I do
Miss there
has often talked grand o' the South, and the ways down there. Now I dunnot know how far off it is, but I've been thinking if I could get 'em down theer, where food is cheap and wages good, and all the folk, rich and poor, master and man, friendly like; yo' could, may be, help me to work. I'm not forty-five, and I've a deal o' strength in me, measter
But what kind of work could you do, my man
Well, I reckon I could spade a bit
And for that
for anything you could do, Higgins, with the best will in the world, you would, may be, get nine shillings a week; may be ten, at the outside. Food is much the same as here, except that you might have a little garden
The childer could work at that
I'm sick o' Milton anyways, and Milton is sick o' me
You must not go to the South
for all that. You could not stand it. You would have to be out all weathers. It would kill you with rheumatism. The mere bodily work at your time of life would break you down. The fare is far different to what you have been accustomed to
I'se nought particular about my meat
But you've reckoned on having butcher's meat once a day, if you're in work; pay for that out of your ten shillings, and keep those poor children if you can. I owe it to you -- since it's my way of talking that has set you off on this idea -- to put it all clear before you. You would not bear the dulness of the life; you don't know what it is; it would eat you away like rust. Those that have lived there all their lives, are used to soaking in the stagnant waters. They labour on, from day to day, in the great solitude of steaming fields -- never speaking or lifting up their poor, bent, downcast heads. The hard spade-work robs their brain of life; the sameness of their toil deadens their imagination; they don't care to meet to talk over thoughts and speculations, even of the weakest, wildest kind, after their work is done; they go home brutishly tired, poor creatures! caring for nothing but food and rest. You could not stir them up into any companionship, which you get in a town as plentiful as the air you breathe, whether it be good or bad -- and that I don't know; but I do know, that you of all men are not one to bear a life among such labourers. What would be peace to them would be eternal fretting to you. Think no more of it, Nicholas, I beg. Besides, you could never pay to get mother and children all there -- that's one good thing
'em
Higgins, have you been to Marlborough Mills to seek for work
Thornton's
Ay, I've been at Thornton's
And what did he say
Such a chap as me is not like to see the measter. Th' o'erlooker bid me go and be d ---- d
I wish you had seen Mr. Thornton
He might not have given you work, but he would not have used such language
As to th' language, I'm welly used to it; it dunnot matter to me. I'm not nesh mysel' when I'm put out. It were th' fact that I were na wanted theer, no more nor ony other place, as I minded
But I wish you had seen Mr. Thornton
Would you go again -- it's a good deal to ask, I know -- but would you go to-morrow and try him? I should be so glad if you would
I'm afraid it would be of no use
It would be better to let me speak to him
All the more do I thank you
Though I don't believe you: I believe you have just given way to wife and daughter as much as most men
And as to Mr. Thornton
I'll give you a note to him, which, I think I may venture to say, will ensure you a hearing
You'll find your shoe's by the kitchen fire; I took them there to dry
How proud that man is
He is
but what grand makings of a man there are in him, pride and all
It's amusing to see how he evidently respects the part in Mr. Thornton's character which is like his own
There's granite in all these northern people, papa, is there not
There was none in poor Boucher, I am afraid; none in his wife either
I should guess from their tones that they had Irish blood in them. I wonder what success he'll have to-morrow. If he and Mr. Thornton would speak out together as man to man -- if Higgins would forget that Mr. Thornton was a master, and speak to him as he does to us -- and if Mr. Thornton would be patient enough to listen to him with his human heart, not with his master's ears
You are getting to do Mr. Thornton justice at last, Margaret
Oh
I wish I were a man, that I could go and force him to express his disapprobation, and tell him honestly that I knew I deserved it. It seems hard to lose him as a friend just when I had begun to feel his value. How tender he was with dear mamma! If it were only for her sake, I wish he would come, and then at least I should know how much I was abased in his eyes
Then proudly, proudly up she rose, Tho' the tear was in her e'e, "Whate'er ye say, think what ye may, Ye's get na word frae me
There was not a man in all that crowd for whom she would not have done as much, far more readily than for him
Can you stop -- can you sit down for a moment? I have something to say to you, if you would give up that everlasting walk, walk, walk
I want to speak to you about Betsy. She says she must leave us; that her lover's death has so affected her spirits she can't give her heart to her work
Very well. I suppose other cooks are to be met with
That's so like a man. It's not merely the cooking, it is that she knows all the ways of the house. Besides, she tells me something about your friend Miss Hale
Miss Hale is no friend of mine. Mr. Hale is my friend
I am glad to hear you say so, for if she had been your friend, what Betsy says would have annoyed you
Let me hear it
Betsy says, that the night on which her lover -- I forget his name -- for she always calls him "he
Leonards
The night on which Leonards was last seen at the station -- when he was last seen on duty, in fact -- Miss Hale was there, walking about with a young man who, Betsy believes, killed Leonards by some blow or push
Leonards was not killed by any blow or push
How do you know
Because I distinctly put the question to the surgeon of the Infirmary. He told me there was an internal disease of long standing, caused by Leonards' habit of drinking to excess; that the fact of his becoming rapidly worse while in a state of intoxication, settled the question as to whether the last fatal attack was caused by excess of drinking, or the fall
The fall! What fall
Caused by the blow or push of which Betsy speaks
Then there was a blow or push
I believe so
And who did it
As there was no inquest, in consequence of the doctor's opinion, I cannot tell you
But Miss Hale was there
And with a young man
I tell you, mother, that there was no inquest -- no inquiry. No judicial inquiry, I mean
Betsy says that Woolmer (some man she knows, who is in a grocer's shop out at Crampton) can swear that Miss Hale was at the station at that hour, walking backwards and forwards with a young man
I don't see what we have to do with that. Miss Hale is at liberty to please herself
I'm glad to hear you say so
It certainly signifies very little to us -- not at all to you, after what has passed! but I -- I made a promise to Mrs. Hale, that I would not allow her daughter to go wrong without advising and remonstrating with her. I shall certainly let her know my opinion of such conduct
I do not see any harm in what she did that evening
You would not have approved of Fanny's being seen out, after dark, in rather a lonely place, walking about with a young man. I say nothing of the taste which could choose the time, when her mother lay unburied, for such a promenade. Should you have liked your sister to have been noticed by a grocer's assistant for doing so
A pretty character of your sister, indeed! Really, John, one would have thought Miss Hale had done enough to make you clear-sighted. She drew you on to an offer, by a bold display of pretended regard for you,-- to play you off against this very young man, I've no doubt. Her whole conduct is clear to me now. You believe he is her lover, I suppose -- you agree to that
Yes, mother. I do believe he is her lover
Mother. He is her lover, whoever he is; but she may need help and womanly counsel;-- there may be difficulties or temptations which I don't know. I fear there are. I don't want to know what they are; but as you have ever been a good -- ay! and a tender mother to me, go to her, and gain her confidence, and tell her what is best to be done. I know that something is wrong; some dread, must be a terrible torture to her
For God's sake, John
what do you mean? What do you mean? What do you know
John! I don't know what I shan't think unless you speak. You have no right to say what you have done against her
Not against her, mother! I ~could~ not speak against her
Well! you have no right to say what you have done, unless you say more. These half-expressions are what ruin a woman's character
Her character! Mother, you do not dare
I will not say any more than this, which is neither more nor less than the simple truth, and I am sure you believe me,-- I have good reason to believe, that Miss Hale is in some strait and difficulty connected with an attachment which, of itself, from my knowledge of Miss Hale's character, is perfectly innocent and right. What my reason is, I refuse to tell. But never let me hear any one say a word against her, implying any more serious imputation than that she now needs the counsel of some kind and gentle woman. You promised Mrs. Hale to be that woman
I am happy to say, I did not promise kindness and gentleness, for I felt at the time that it might be out of my power to render these to one of Miss Hale's character and disposition. I promised counsel and advice, such as I would give to my own daughter; I shall speak to her as I would do to Fanny, if she had gone gallivanting with a young man in the dusk. I shall speak with relation to the circumstances I know, without being influenced either one way or another by the "strong reasons" which you will not confide to me. Then I shall have fulfilled my promise, and done my duty
She will never bear it
She will have to bear it, if I speak in her dead mother's name
Well
don't tell me any more about it. I cannot endure to think of it. It will be better that you should speak to her any way, than that she should not be spoken to at all.-- Oh! that look of love
And that cursed lie; which showed some terrible shame in the background, to be kept from the light in which I thought she lived perpetually! Oh, Margaret, Margaret! Mother, how you have tortured me! Oh! Margaret, could you not have loved me? I am but uncouth and hard, but I would never have led you into any falsehood for me
glamour
Is Miss Hale within
Miss Hale, I have a duty to perform. I promised your poor mother that, as far as my poor judgment went, I would not allow you to act in any way wrongly, or (she softened her speech down a little here) inadvertently, without remonstrating; at least, without offering advice, whether you took it or not
At first, when I heard from one of my servants, that you had been seen walking about with a gentleman, so far from home as the Outwood station, at such a time of the evening, I could hardly believe it. But my son, I am sorry to say, confirmed her story. It was indiscreet, to say the least; many a young woman has lost her character before now
For your mother's sake, I have thought it right to warn you against such improprieties; they must degrade you in the long run in the estimation of the world, even if in fact they do not lead you to positive harm
For my mother's sake
I will bear much; but I cannot bear everything. She never meant me to be exposed to insult, I am sure
Insult, Miss Hale
Yes, madam
it is insult. What do you know of me that should lead you to suspect -- Oh
I know now, Mr. Thornton has told you
No, Miss Hale
Stop. Mr. Thornton has told me nothing. You do not know my son. You are not worthy to know him. He said this. Listen, young lady, that you may understand, if you can, what sort of a man you rejected. This Milton manufacturer, his great tender heart scorned as it was scorned, said to me only last night, "Go to her. I have good reason to know that she is in some strait, arising out of some attachment; and she needs womanly counsel." I believe those were his very words. Farther than that -- beyond admitting the fact of your being at the Outwood station with a gentleman, on the evening of the twenty-sixth -- he has said nothing -- not one word against you. If he has knowledge of anything which should make you sob so, he keeps it to himself
Come, Miss Hale. There may be circumstances, I'll allow, that, if explained, may take off from the seeming impropriety
I shall be sorry to break off an acquaintance; but for Fanny's sake -- as I told my son, if Fanny had done so we should consider it a great disgrace -- and Fanny might be led away
I can give you no explanation
I have done wrong, but not in the way you think or know about. I think Mr. Thornton judges me more mercifully than you
but, I believe, madam, you mean to do rightly
Thank you
I was not aware that my meaning was doubted. It is the last time I shall interfere. I was unwilling to consent to do it, when your mother asked me. I had not approved of my son's attachment to you, while I only suspected it. You did not appear to me worthy of him. But when you compromised yourself as you did at the time of the riot, and exposed yourself to the comments of servants and workpeople, I felt it was no longer right to set myself against my son's wish of proposing to you -- a wish, by the way, which he had always denied entertaining until the day of the riot
He came; you had apparently changed your mind. I told my son yesterday, that I thought it possible, short as was the interval, you might have heard or learnt something of this other lover
What must you think of me, madam
You can say nothing more, Mrs. Thornton. I decline every attempt to justify myself for anything. You must allow me to leave the room
My young lady
you've a pretty good temper of your own. If John and you had come together, he would have had to keep a tight hand over you, to make you know your place. But I don't think you will go a-walking again with your beau, at such an hour of the day, in a hurry. You've too much pride and spirit in you for that. I like to see a girl fly out at the notion of being talked about. It shows they're neither giddy, nor hold by nature. As for that girl, she might be hold, but she'd never be giddy. I'll do her that justice. Now as to Fanny, she'd be giddy, and not bold. She's no courage in her, poor thing
Can't stay now, my man. I'm too late as it is
Well, sir, I reckon I can wait till yo' come back
the measter
What! you there still
Come in here, then. Stay, we'll go across the yard; the men are not come back, and we shall have it to ourselves. These good people, I see, are at dinner
I suppose you know, sir, that that man is Higgins, one of the leaders of the Union; he that made that speech in Hurstfield
No, I didn't
Come along
It is men such as this
who interrupt commerce and injure the very town they live in: mere demagogues, lovers of power, at whatever cost to others
Well, sir! what do you want with me
My name is Higgins'
I know that
What do you want, Mr. Higgins? That's the question
I want work
Work! You're a pretty chap to come asking me for work. You don't want impudence, that's very clear
I've getten enemies and backbiters, like my betters; but I ne'er heerd o' ony of them calling me o'er-modest
What are you waiting for
An answer to the question I axed
I gave it you before. Don't waste any more of your time
Yo' made a remark, sir, on my impudence: but I were taught that it was manners to say either "yes" or "no," when I were axed a civil question. I should be thankfu' to yo' if yo'd give me work. Hamper will speak to my being a good hand
I've a notion you'd better not send me to Hamper to ask for a character, my man. I might hear more than you'd like
I'd take th' risk. Worst they could say of me is, that I did what I thought best, even to my own wrong
You'd better go and try them, then, and see whether they'll give you work. I've turned off upwards of a hundred of my best hands, for no other fault than following you and such as you; and d'ye think I'll take you on? I might as well put a firebrand into the midst of the cotton-waste
Upon my word, you don't think small beer of yourself! Hamper has had a loss of you. How came he to let you and your wisdom go
Well, we parted wi' mutual dissatisfaction. I wouldn't gi'e the pledge they were asking; and they wouldn't have me at no rate. So I'm free to make another engagement; and as I said before, though I should na' say it, I'm a good hand, measter, and a steady man -- specially when I can keep fro' drink; and that I shall do now, if I ne'er did afore
That you may have more money laid up for another strike, I suppose
No! I'd be thankful if I was free to do that; it's for to keep th' widow and childer of a man who was drove mad by them knobsticks o' yourn; put out of his place by a Paddy that did na know weft fro' warp
Well! you'd better turn to something else, if you've any such good intention in your head. I shouldn't advise you to stay in Milton: you're too well known here
If it were summer
I'd take to Paddy's work, and go as a navvy, or haymaking, or summut, and ne'er see Milton again. But it's winter, and th' childer will clem
A pretty navvy you'd make! why, you couldn't do half a day's work at digging against an Irishman
I'd only charge half-a-day for th' twelve hours, if I could only do half-a-day's work in th' time. Yo're not knowing of any place, where they could gi' me a trial, away fro' the mills, if I'm such a firebrand? I'd take any wage they thought I was worth, for the sake of those childer
Don't you see what you would be? You'd be a knobstick. You'd be taking less wages than the other labourers -- all for the sake of another man's children. Think how you'd abuse any poor fellow who was willing to take what he could get to keep his own children. You and your Union would soon be down upon him. No! no! if it's only for the recollection of the way in which you've used the poor knobsticks before now, I say No! to your question. I'll not give you work. I won't say, I don't believe your pretext for coming and asking for work; I know nothing about it. It may be true, or it may not. It's a very unlikely story, at any rate. Let me pass. I'll not give you work. There's your answer
Tell her to mind her own business the next time, instead of taking up your time and mine too. I believe women are at the bottom of every plague in this world. Be off with you
I'm obleeged to yo' for a' yo'r kindness, measter, and most of a' for yo'r civil way o' saying good-bye
How long has that man Higgins been waiting to speak to me
And it is now
Just one, sir
Five hours
it's a long time for a man to wait, doing nothing but first hoping and then fearing
Nay, I have done; you get no more of me: And I am glad, yea glad with all my heart, That thus so clearly I myself am free
At any rate, her words do not touch me; they fall off from me; for I am innocent of all the motives she attributes to me. But still, it is hard to think that any one -- any woman -- can believe all this of another so easily. It is hard and sad. Where I have done wrong, she does not accuse me -- she does not know. He never told her: I might have known he would not
He, too, must take poor Frederick for some lover
I see it now. It is not merely that he knows of my falsehood, but he believes that some one else cares for me; and that I ---- Oh dear!-- oh dear! What shall I do? What do I mean? Why do I care what he thinks, beyond the mere loss of his good opinion as regards my telling the truth or not? I cannot tell. But I am very miserable! Oh, how unhappy this last year has been! I have passed out of childhood into old age. I have had no youth -- no womanhood; the hopes of womanhood have closed for me -- for I shall never marry; and I anticipate cares and sorrows just as if I were an old woman, and with the same fearful spirit. I am weary of this continual call upon me for strength. I could bear up for papa; because that is a natural, pious duty. And I think I could bear up against -- at any rate, I could have the energy to resent, Mrs. Thornton's unjust, impertinent suspicions. But it is hard to feel how completely he must misunderstand me. What has happened to make me so morbid to-day? I do not know. I only know I cannot help it. I must give way sometimes. No, I will not, though
I will not -- I ~will~ not think of myself and my own position. I won't examine into my own feelings. It would be of no use now. Some time, if I live to be an old woman, I may sit over the fire, and, looking into the embers, see the life that might have been
I dare say, there's many a woman makes as sad a mistake as I have done, and only finds it out too late. And how proudly and impertinently I spoke to him that day! But I did not know then. It has come upon me little by little, and I don't know where it began. Now I won't give way. I shall find it difficult to behave in the same way to him, with this miserable consciousness upon me; but I will be very calm and very quiet, and say very little. But, to be sure, I may not see him; he keeps out of our way evidently. That would be worse than all. And yet no wonder that he avoids me, believing what he must about me
Good girl
You've been to Mrs. Boucher's. I was just meaning to go there, if I had time, before dinner
No, papa; I have not
Come to me
Ay
I've seen and heerd too much on him
He refused you, then
To be sure. I knew he'd do it all long. It's no good expecting marcy at the hands o' them measters. Yo're a stranger and a foreigner, and aren't likely to know their ways; but I knowed it
I am sorry I asked you. Was he angry? He did not speak to you as Hamper did, did he
He weren't o'er-civil
You told him I sent you
I dunno' if I ca'd yo' by your name. I dunnot think I did. I said, a woman who knew no better had advised me for to come and see if there was a soft place in his heart
And he
Said I were to tell yo' to mind yo'r own business.-- That's the longest spin yet, my lads.-- And them's civil words to what he used to me. But ne'er mind. We're but where we was; and I'll break stones on th' road afore I let these little uns clem
I am sorry I asked you to go to Mr. Thornton's. I am disappointed in him
a soft place
So that was the lady you spoke of as a woman
And then, maybe, yo'd ha' spoken of her more civil than yo' did; yo'd getten a mother who might ha' kept yo'r tongue in check when yo' were talking o' women being at the root o' all the plagues
Of course you told that to Miss Hale
Whose children are those -- yours
They're not mine, and they are mine
They are the children you spoke of to me this morning
When yo' said
that my story might be true or might not, bur it were a very unlikely one. Measter, I've not forgetten
No more have I. I remember what I said. I spoke to you about those children in a way I had no business to do. I did not believe you. I could not have taken care of another man's children myself, if he had acted towards me as I hear Boucher did towards you. But I know now that you spoke truth. I beg your pardon
Yo've no business to go prying into what happened between Boucher and me. He's dead, and I'm sorry. That's enough
So it is. Will you take work with me? That's what I came to ask
Yo've called me impudent, and a liar, and a mischief-maker, and yo' might ha' said wi' some truth, as I were now and then given to drink. An' I ha' called you a tyrant, an' an oud bull-dog, and a hard, cruel master; that's where it stands. But for th' childer. Measter, do yo' think we can e'er get on together
Well
it was not my proposal that we should go together. But there's one comfort, on your own showing. We neither of us can think much worse of the other than we do now
That's true
And this is a deal from me
Now mind you come sharp to your time
I'll have no laggards at my mill. What fines we have, we keep pretty sharply. And the first time I catch you making mischief, off you go. So now you know where you are
bout my brains
I shall need a deal o' brains to settle where my business ends and yo'rs begins
Your business has not begun yet, and mine stands still for me. So good afternoon
Allow me to say, Miss Hale, that you were rather premature in expressing your disappointment. I have taken Higgins on
I am glad of it
He tells me, he repeated to you, what I said this morning about
About women not meddling. You had a perfect right to express your opinion, which was a very correct one, I have no doubt. But
Higgins did not quite tell you the exact truth
truth
The exact truth
Very few people do speak the exact truth. I have given up hoping for it. Miss Hale, have you no explanation to give me? You must perceive what I cannot but think
Nay
I will ask no farther. I may be putting temptation in your way. At present, believe me, your secret is safe with me. But you run great risks, allow me to say, in being so indiscreet. I am now only speaking as a friend of your father's: if I had any other thought or hope, of course that is at an end. I am quite disinterested
I am aware of that
I am aware of what I must appear to you, but the secret is another person's, and I cannot explain it without doing him harm
I have not the slightest wish to pry into the gentleman's secrets
My own interest in you is -- simply that of a friend. You may not believe me, Miss Hale, but it is -- in spite of the persecution I'm afraid I threatened you with at one time -- but that is all given up; all passed away. You believe me, Miss Hale
Yes
Then, really, I don't see any occasion for us to go on walking together. I thought, perhaps you might have had something to say, but I see we are nothing to each other. If you're quite convinced, that any foolish passion on my part is entirely over, I will wish you good afternoon
What can he mean
what could he mean by speaking so, as if I were always thinking that he cared for me, when I know he does not; he cannot. His mother will have said all those cruel things about me to him. But I won't care for him. I surely am mistress enough of myself to control this wild, strange, miserable feeling, which tempted me even to betray my own dear Frederick, so that I might but regain his good opinion -- the good opinion of a man who takes such pains to tell me that I am nothing to him. Come poor little heart! be cheery and brave. We'll be a great deal to one another, if we are thrown off and left desolate
I have no wrong, where I can claim no right, Naught ta'en me fro, where I have nothing had, Yet of my woe I cannot so be quite; Namely, since that another may he glad With that, that thus in sorrow makes me sad
Fresh and young in warmth and kindness, I mean. I'm afraid I must own, that I think your opinions are the oldest and mustiest I have met with this long time
Hear this daughter of yours, Hale Her residence in Milton has quite corrupted her. She's a democrat, a red republican, a member of the Peace Society, a socialist
Papa, it's all because I'm standing up for the progress of commerce. Mr. Bell would have had it keep still at exchanging wild-beast skins for acorns
No, no. I'd dig the ground and grow potatoes. And I'd shave the wild-beast skins and make the wool into broad cloth. Don't exaggerate, missy. But I'm tired of this bustle. Everybody rushing over everybody, in their hurry to get rich
It is not every one who can sit comfortably in a set of college rooms, and let his riches grow without any exertion of his own. No doubt there is many a man here who would be thankful if his property would increase as yours has done, without his taking any trouble about it
I don't believe they would. It's the bustle and the struggle they like. As for sitting still, and learning from the past, or shaping out the future by faithful work done in a prophetic spirit -- Why! Pooh! I don't believe there's a man in Milton who knows how to sit still; and it is a great art
Milton people, I suspect, think Oxford men don't know how to move. It would be a very good thing if they mixed a little more
It might be good for the Miltoners. Many things might be good for them which would be very disagreeable for other people
Are you not a Milton man yourself
I should have thought you would have been proud of your town
I confess, I don't see what there is to be proud of If you'll only come to Oxford, Margaret, I will show you a place to glory in
Well
Mr. Thornton is coming to drink tea with us to-night, and he is as proud of Milton as you of Oxford. You two must try and make each other a little more liberal-minded
I don't want to be more liberal-minded, thank you
Is Mr. Thornton coming to tea, papa
Either to tea or soon after. He could not tell. He told us not to wait
A letter from Henry Lennox. It makes Margaret very hopeful
We were thinking
that you and Mr. Thornton had taken Margaret's advice, and were each trying to convert the other, you were so long in the study
And you thought there would be nothing left of us but an opinion, like the Kilkenny cat's tail. Pray whose opinion did you think would have the most obstinate vitality
Mr. Thornton, we were accusing Mr. Bell this morning of a kind of Oxonian mediaeval bigotry against his native town; and we -- Margaret, I believe -- suggested that it would do him good to associate a little with Milton manufacturers
I beg your pardon. Margaret thought it would do the Milton manufacturers good to associate a little more with Oxford men. Now wasn't it so, Margaret
I believe I thought it would do both good to see a little more of the other,-- I did not know it was my idea any more than papa's
And so you see, Mr. Thornton, we ought to have been improving each other down-stairs, instead of talking over vanished families of Smiths and Harrisons. However, I am willing to do my part now. I wonder when you Milton men intend to live. All your lives seem to be spent in gathering together the materials for life
By living, I suppose you mean enjoyment
Yes, enjoyment,-- I don't specify of what, because I trust. we should both consider mere pleasure as very poor enjoyment
I would rather have the nature of the enjoyment defined
Well! enjoyment of leisure -- enjoyment of the power and influence which money gives. You are all striving for money. What do you want it for
I really don't know. But money is not what ~I~ strive for
What then
It is a home question. I shall have to lay myself open to such a catechist, and I am not sure that I am prepared to do it
No
don't let us be personal in our catechism. You are neither of you representative men; you are each of you too individual for that
I am not sure whether to consider that as a compliment or not. I should like to be the representative of Oxford, with its beauty and its learning, and its proud old history. What do you say, Margaret; ought I to be flattered
I don't know Oxford. But there is a difference between being the representative of a city and the representative man of its inhabitants
Very true, Miss Margaret. Now I remember, you were against me this morning, and were quite Miltonian and manufacturing in your preferences
I don't set up Milton as a model of a town
Not in architecture
No! We've been too busy to attend to mere outward appearances
Don't say ~mere~ outward appearances
They impress us all, from childhood upward -- every day of our life
Wait a little while
Remember, we are of a different race from the Greeks, to whom beauty was everything, and to whom Mr. Bell might speak of a life of leisure and serene enjoyment, much of which entered in through their outward senses. I don't mean to despise them, any more than I would ape them. But I belong to Teutonic blood; it is little mingled in this part of England to what it is in others; we retain much of their language; we retain more of their spirit; we do not look upon life as a time for enjoyment, but as a time for action and exertion. Our glory and our beauty arise out of our inward strength, which makes us victorious over material resistance, and over greater difficulties still. We are Teutonic up here in Darkshire in another way. We hate to have laws made for us at a distance. We wish people would allow us to right ourselves, instead of continually meddling, with their imperfect legislation. We stand up for self-government, and oppose centralisation
In short, you would like the Heptarchy back again. Well, at any rate, I revoke what I said this morning -- that you Milton people did not reverence the past. You are regular worshippers of Thor
If we do not reverence the past as you do in Oxford, it is because we want something which can apply to the present more directly. It is fine when the study of the past leads to a prophecy of the future. But to men groping in new circumstances, it would be finer if the words of experience could direct us how to act in what concerns us most intimately and immediately; which is full of difficulties that must be encountered; and upon the mode in which they are met and conquered -- not merely pushed aside for the time -- depends our future. Out of the wisdom of the past, help us over the present. But no! People can speak of Utopia much more easily than of the next day's duty; and yet when that duty is all done by others, who so ready to cry, "Fie, for shame
And all this time I don't see what you are talking about. Would you Milton men condescend to send up your to-day's difficulty to Oxford? You have not tried us yet
I believe I was talking with reference to a good deal that has been troubling us of late; I was thinking of the strikes we have gone through, which are troublesome and injurious things enough, as I am finding to my cost. And yet this last strike, under which I am smarting, has been respectable
A respectable strike
That sounds as if you were far gone in the worship of Thor
Edith says she finds the printed calicoes in Corfu better and cheaper than in London
Does she
I think that must be one of Edith's exaggerations. Are you sure of it, Margaret
I am sure she says so, papa
Then I am sure of the fact
Margaret, I go so far in my idea of your truthfulness, that it shall cover your cousin's character. I don't believe a cousin of yours could exaggerate
Is Miss Hale so remarkable for truth
her rocking it, and rating it
I never saw a fellow so spoiled by success. He can't bear a word; a jest of any kind. Everything seems to touch on the soreness of his high dignity. Formerly, he was as simple and noble as the open day; you could not offend him, because he had no vanity
He is not vain now
To-night he has not been like himself Something must have annoyed him before he came here
Hale! did it ever strike you that Thornton and your daughter have what the French call a tendresse for each other
Never
No, I am sure you are wrong. I am almost certain you are mistaken. If there is anything, it is all on Mr. Thornton's side. Poor fellow! I hope and trust he is not thinking of her, for I am sure she would not have him
Well! I'm a bachelor, and have steered clear of love affairs all my life; so perhaps my opinion is not worth having. Or else I should say there were very pretty symptoms about her
Then I am sure you are wrong
He may care for her, though she really has been almost rude to him at times. But she!-- why, Margaret would never think of him, I'm sure! Such a thing has never entered her head
Entering her heart would do. But I merely threw out a suggestion of what might be. I dare say I was wrong. And whether I was wrong or right, I'm very sleepy; so, having disturbed your night's rest (as I can see) with my untimely fancies, I'll betake myself with an easy mind to my own
That Margaret of yours has gone deep into my heart. Take care of her, for she is a very precious creature,-- a great deal too good for Milton,-- only fit for Oxford, in fact. The town, I mean; not the men. I can't match her yet. When I can, I shall bring my young man to stand side by side with your young woman, just as the genie in the Arabian Nights brought Prince Caralmazan to match with the fairy's Princess Badoura
I beg you'll do no such thing. Remember the misfortunes that ensued; and besides, I can't spare Margaret
No; on second thoughts, we'll have her to nurse us ten years hence, when we shall be two cross old invalids. Seriously, Hale! I wish you'd leave Milton; which is a most unsuitable place for you, though it was my recommendation in the first instance. If you would; I'd swallow my shadows of doubts, and take a college living; and you and Margaret should come and live at the parsonage -- you to be a sort of lay curate, and take the unwashed off my hands; and she to be our housekeeper -- the village Lady Bountiful -- by day; and read us to sleep in the evenings. I could be very happy in such a life. What do you think of it
Never
My one great change has been made and my price of suffering paid. Here I stay out my life; and here will I be buried, and lost in the crowd
God bless you
To tell the truth
he fairly bamboozles me. He's two chaps. One chap I knowed of old as were measter all o'er. T'other chap hasn't an ounce of measter's flesh about him. How them two chaps is bound up in one body, is a craddy for me to find out. I'll not be beat by it, though. Meanwhile he comes here pretty often; that's how I know the chap that's a man, not a measter. And I reckon he's taken aback by me pretty much as I am by him; for he sits and listens and stares, as if I were some strange beast newly caught in some of the zones. But I'm none daunted. It would take a deal to daunt me in my own house, as he sees. And I tell him some of my mind that I reckon he'd ha' been the better of hearing when he were a younger man
And does he not answer you
Well! I'll not say th' advantage is all on his side, for all I take credit for improving him above a bit. Sometimes he says a rough thing or two, which is not agreeable to look at at first, but has a queer smack o' truth in it when yo' come to chew it. He'll be coming to-night, I reckon, about them childer's schooling. He's not satisfied wi' the make of it, and wants for t' examine 'em
What are they
It is nearly seven
The evenings are getting longer now. Come, papa
Margaret! had you ever any reason for thinking that Mr. Thornton cared for you
Yes; I believe -- oh papa, I should have told you
No, dear; don't think that I am impertinently curious. I am sure you would have told me if you had felt that you could return his regard. Did he speak to you about it
Yes
And you refused him
Yes
Now, papa, I have told you this, and I cannot tell you more; and then the whole thing is so painful to me; every word and action connected with it is so unspeakably bitter, that I cannot bear to think of it. Oh, papa, I am sorry to have lost you this friend, but I could not help it -- but oh! I am very sorry
I too, am sorry, my dear. Mr. Bell quite startled me when he said, some idea of the kind
Mr. Bell! Oh, did Mr. Bell see it
A little; but he took it into his head that you -- how shall I say it?-- that you were not ungraciously disposed towards Mr. Thornton. I knew that could never be. I hoped the whole thing was but an imagination; but I knew too well what your real feelings were to suppose that you could ever like Mr. Thornton in that way. But I am very sorry
To-morrow -- yes, to-morrow they will be back in Harley Street. Oh, how strange it will be! I wonder what room they will make into the nursery? Aunt Shaw will be happy with the baby. Fancy Edith a mamma! And Captain Lennox -- I wonder what he will do with himself now he has sold out
I'll tell you what
I think I must spare you for a fortnight just to run up to town and see the travellers. You could learn more, by half an hour's conversation with Mr. Henry Lennox, about Frederick's chances, than in a dozen of these letters of his; so it would, in fact, be uniting business with pleasure
No, papa, you cannot spare me, and what's more, I won't be spared
I am losing hope sadly about Frederick; he is letting us down gently, but I can see that Mr. Lennox himself has no hope of hunting up the witnesses under years and years of time. No
that bubble was very pretty, and very dear to our hearts; but it has burst like many another; and we must console ourselves with being glad that Frederick is so happy, and with being a great deal to each other. So don't offend me by talking of being able to spare me, papa, for I assure you you can't
I see my way as birds their trackless way -- I shall arrive! what time, what circuit first, I ask not: but unless God send his hail Or blinding fire-balls, sleet, or stifling snow, In some time -- his good time -- I shall arrive; He guides me and the bird. In His good time
The way of humility. Ah
that is what I have missed! But courage, little heart. We will turn back, and by God's help we may find the lost path
I had had the fever, and was but delicate; and Mrs. Thornton, and Mr. Thornton too, they never rested till they had nursed me up in their own house, and sent me to the sea and all. The doctors said the fever was catching, but they cared none for that -- only Miss Fanny, and she went a-visiting these folk that she is going to marry into. So, though she was afraid at the time, it has all ended well
Miss Fanny going to be married
Yes; and to a rich gentleman, too, only he's a deal older than she is. His name is Watson; and his milk are somewhere out beyond Hayleigh; it's a very good marriage, for all he's got such gray hair
So th' oud gentleman's away on his travels, is he
uns, they are; I a'most think they beat my own wenches for sharpness, though mappen it's wrong to say so, and one on 'em in her grave. There's summut in th' weather, I reckon, as sets folk a-wandering. My measter, him at th' shop yonder, is spinning about th' world somewhere
Is that the reason you're so soon at home to-night
Thou know'st nought about it, that's all
One step's enough for me
I'm afraid we've done too much
I am tired
But it is not Milton air. I'm fifty-five years of age, and that little fact of itself accounts for any loss of strength
Nonsense! I'm upwards of sixty, and feel no loss of strength, either bodily or mental. Don't let me hear you talking so. Fifty-five! why, you're quite a young man
These last few years
Bell! you're not to think, that if I could have foreseen all that would come of my change of opinion, and my resignation of my living -- no! not even if I could have known how ~she~ would have suffered,-- that I would undo it -- the act of open acknowledgment that I no longer held the same faith as the church in which I was a priest. As I think now, even if I could have foreseen that cruellest martyrdom of suffering, through the sufferings of one whom I loved, I would have done just the same as far as that step of openly leaving the church went. I might have done differently, and acted more wisely, in all that I subsequently did for my family. But I don't think God endued me with over-much wisdom or strength
He gave you strength to do what your conscience told you was right; and I don't see that we need any higher or holier strength than that; or wisdom either. I know I have not that much; and yet men set me down in their fool's books as a wise man; an independent character; strong-minded, and all that cant. The veriest idiot who obeys his own simple law of right, if it be but in wiping his shoes on a door-mat, is wiser and stronger than I. But what gulls men are
About Margaret
Well! about Margaret. What then
If I die
Nonsense
What will become of her -- I often think? I suppose the Lennoxes will ask her to live with them. I try to think they will. Her aunt Shaw loved her well in her own quiet way; but she forgets to love the absent
A very common fault. What sort of people are the Lennoxes
He, handsome, fluent, and agreeable. Edith, a sweet little spoiled beauty. Margaret loves her with all her heart, and Edith with as much of her heart as she can spare
Now, Hale; you know that girl of yours has got pretty nearly all my heart. I told you that before. Of course, as your daughter, as my god-daughter, I took great interest in her before I saw her the last time. But this visit that I paid to you at Milton made me her slave. I went, a willing old victim, following the car of the conqueror. For, indeed, she looks as grand and serene as one who has struggled, and may be struggling, and yet has the victory secure in sight. Yes, in spite of all her present anxieties, that was the look on her face. And so, all I have is at her service, if she needs it; and will be hers, whether she will or no, when I die. Moreover, I myself, will be her preux chevalier, sixty and gouty though I be. Seriously, old friend, your daughter shall be my principal charge in life, and all the help that either my wit or my wisdom or my willing heart can give, shall be hers. I don't choose her out as a subject for fretting. Something, I know of old, you must have to worry yourself about, or you wouldn't be happy. But you're going to outlive me by many a long year. You spare, thin men are always tempting and always cheating Death! It's the stout, florid fellows like me, that always go off first
A coroner's inquest? Pooh. You don't think I poisoned him! Dr. Forbes says it is just the natural end of a heart complaint. Poor old Hale! You wore out that tender heart of yours before its time. Poor old friend! how he talked of his ---- Wallis, pack up a carpet-bag for me in five minutes. Here have I been talking. Pack it up, I say. I must go to Milton by the next train
Times
Why, Thornton! is that you
I'm going to Milton, bound on a melancholy errand. Going to break to Hale's daughter the news of his sudden death
Death! Mr. Hale dead
Ay; I keep saying it to myself, "Hale is dead!" but it doesn't make it any the more real. Hale is dead for all that. He went to bed well, to all appearance, last night, and was quite cold this morning when my servant went to call him
Where? I don't understand
At Oxford. He came to stay with me; hadn't been in Oxford this seventeen years -- and this is the end of it
And she
Margaret you mean. Yes! I am going to tell her. Poor fellow! how full his thoughts were of her all last night! Good God! Last night only. And how immeasurably distant he is now! But I take Margaret as my child for his sake. I said last night I would take her for her own sake. Well, I take her for both
What will become of her
I rather fancy there will be two people waiting for her: myself for one. I would take a live dragon into my house to live, if, by hiring such a chaperon, and setting up an establishment of my own, I could make my old age happy with having Margaret for a daughter. But there are those Lennoxes
Who are they
Oh, smart London people, who very likely will think they've the best right to her. Captain Lennox married her cousin -- the girl she was brought up with. Good enough people, I dare say. And there's her aunt, Mrs. Shaw. There might be a way open, perhaps, by my offering to marry that worthy lady! but that would be quite a pis aller. And then there's that brother
What brother? A brother of her aunt's
No, no; a clever Lennox, (the captain's a fool, you must understand) a young barrister, who will be setting his cap at Margaret. I know he has had her in his mind this five years or more: one of his chums told me as much; and he was only kept back by her want of fortune. Now that will be done away with
How
Why, she'll have my money at my death. And if this Henry Lennox is half good enough for her, and she likes him -- well! I might find another way of getting a home through a marriage. I'm dreadfully afraid of being tempted, at an unguarded moment, by the aunt
Where have you been
To Havre. Trying to detect the secret of the great rise in the price of cotton
Ugh! Cotton, and speculations, and smoke, well-cleansed and well-cared-for machinery, and unwashed and neglected hands. Poor old Hale! Poor old Hale! If you could have known the change which it was to him from Helstone. Do you know the New Forest at all
Yes
Then you can fancy the difference between it and Milton. What part were you in? Were you ever at Helstone? a little picturesque village, like some in the Odenwald? You know Helstone
I have seen it. It was a great change to leave it and come to Milton
Oh! don't tell me! I know it from your face! You would have sent -- you would not have left him -- if he were alive! Oh papa, papa
When some beloved voice that was to you Both sound and sweetness, faileth suddenly, And silence, against which you dare not cry, Aches round you like a strong disease and new -- What hope? what help? what music will undo That silence to your sense
I can't leave her. I must write to them at Oxford, to see that the preparations are made: they can he getting on with these till I arrive. Can't Mrs. Lennox come to her? I'll write and tell her she must. The girl must have some woman-friend about her, if only to talk her into a good fit of crying
Well! I suppose we must have Mrs. Shaw; she's come back to England, isn't she
Yes, sir, she's come back; but I don't think she will like to leave Mrs. Lennox at such an interesting time
Interesting time be --' Mr. Bell restricted himself to coughing over the end of his sentence. 'She could be content to be at Venice or Naples, or some of those Popish places, at the last "interesting time," which took place in Corfu, I think. And what does that little prosperous woman's "interesting time" signify, in comparison with that poor creature there,-- that helpless, homeless, friendless Margaret -- lying as still on that sofa as if it were an altar-tomb, and she the stone statue on it. I tell you, Mrs. Shaw shall come. See that a room, or whatever she wants, is got ready for her by to-morrow night. I'll take care she comes
Don't forget, mamma; Margaret must come and live with us. Sholto will go to Oxford on Wednesday, and you must send word by Mr. Bell to him when we're to expect you. And if you want Sholto, he can go on from Oxford to Milton. Don't forget, mamma; you are to bring back Margaret
If you don't like Sholto to be so long absent from you, Edith, I hope you will let me go down to Milton, and give what assistance I can
Oh, thank you
I dare say old Mr. Bell will do everything he can, and more help may not be needed. Only one does not look for much savoir-faire from a resident Fellow. Dear, darling Margaret! won't it be nice to have her here, again? You were both great allies, years ago
Were we
Well, perhaps not -- I forget. I was so full of Sholto. But doesn't it fall out well, that if my uncle was to die, it should be just now, when we are come home, and settled in the old house, and quite ready to receive Margaret? Poor thing! what a change it will be to her from Milton! I'll have new chintz for her bedroom, and make it look new and bright, and cheer her up a little
that horrid place
Oh dear
look at those chimneys! My poor sister Hale! I don't think I could have rested at Naples, if I had known what it was! I must have come and fetched her and Margaret away
Thornton! is that you? Come in for a minute or two; I want to speak to you
I don't know what I wanted to say to you after all. Only it's dull enough to sit in a room where everything speaks to you of a dead friend. Yet Margaret and her aunt must have the drawing-room to themselves
Is Mrs.-- is her aunt come
Come? Yes! maid and all. One would have thought she might have come by herself at such a time! And now I shall have to turn out and find my way to the Clarendon
You must not go to the Clarendon. We have five or six empty bed-rooms at home
Well aired
I think you may trust my mother for that
Then I'll only run up-stairs and wish that wan girl good-night, and make my bow to her aunt, and go off with you straight
I was kept by those women in the drawing-room. Mrs. Shaw is anxious to get home -- on account of her daughter, she says -- and wants Margaret to go off with her at once. Now she is no more fit for travelling than I am for flying. Besides, she says, and very justly, that she has friends she must see -- that she must wish good-bye to several people; and then her aunt worried her about old claims, and was she forgetful of old friends? And she said, with a great burst of crying, she should be glad enough to go from a place where she had suffered so much. Now I must return to Oxford to-morrow, and I don't know on which side of the scale to throw in my voice
Where she had suffered so much
How is Miss Hale
About as broken down by this last stroke as she can be
I am sure it is very well for her that she has such a friend as you
I wish I were her only friend, madam. I daresay it sounds very brutal; but here have I been displaced, and turned out of my post of comforter and adviser by a fine lady aunt; and there are cousins and what not claiming her in London, as if she were a lap-dog belonging to them. And she is too weak and miserable to have a will of her own
She must indeed be weak
But where
have these relations been all this time that Miss Hale has appeared almost friendless, and has certainly had a good deal of anxiety to bear
They have been living abroad. They have some kind of claim upon her. I will do them that justice. The aunt brought her up, and she and the cousin have been like sisters. The thing vexing me, you see, is that I wanted to take her for a child of my own; and I am jealous of these people, who don't seem to value the privilege of their right. Now it would be different if Frederick claimed her
Frederick
Who is he? What right
Frederick
Why don't you know? He's her brother. Have you not heard
I never heard his name before. Where is he? Who is he
Surely I told you about him, when the family first came to Milton -- the son who was concerned in that mutiny
I never heard of him till this moment. Where does he live
In Spain. He's liable to be arrested the moment he sets foot on English ground. Poor fellow! he will grieve at not being able to attend his father's funeral. We must be content with Captain Lennox; for I don't know of any other relation to summon
I hope I may be allowed to go
Certainly; thankfully. You're a good fellow, after all, Thornton. Hale liked you. He spoke to me, only the other day, about you at Oxford. He regretted he had seen so little of you lately. I am obliged to you for wishing to show him respect
But about Frederick. Does he never come to England
Never
He was not over here about the time of Mrs. Hale's death
No. Why, I was here then. I hadn't seen Hale for years and years and, if you remember, I came -- No, it was some time after that that I came. But poor Frederick Hale was not here then. What made you think he was
I saw a young man walking with Miss Hale one day
and I think it was about that time
Oh, that would be this young Lennox, the Captain's brother. He's a lawyer, and they were in pretty constant correspondence with him; and I remember Mr. Hale told me he thought he would come down. Do you know
that I once fancied you had a little tenderness for Margaret
And so did poor Hale. Not at first, and not till I had put it into his head
I admired Miss Hale. Every one must do so. She is a beautiful creature
Is that all! You can speak of her in that measured way, as simply a "beautiful creature"-- only something to catch the eye. I did hope you had had nobleness enough in you to make you pay her the homage of the heart. Though I believe -- in fact I know, she would have rejected you, still to have loved her without return would have lifted you higher than all those, be they who they may, that have never known her to love. "Beautiful creature" indeed! Do you speak of her as you would of a horse or a dog
Mr. Bell
before you speak so, you should remember that all men are not as free to express what they feel as you are. Let us talk of something else
What is that heap of brick and mortar we came against in the yard? Any repairs wanted
No, none, thank you
Are you building on your own account? If you are, I'm very much obliged to you
I'm building a dining-room -- for the men I mean -- the hands
I thought you were hard to please, if this room wasn't good enough to satisfy you, a bachelor
I've got acquainted with a strange kind of chap, and I put one or two children in whom he is interested to school. So, as I happened to be passing near his house one day, I just went there about some trifling payment to be made; and I saw such a miserable black frizzle of a dinner -- a greasy cinder of meat, as first set me a-thinking. But it was not till provisions grew so high this winter that I bethought me how, by buying things wholesale, and cooking a good quantity of provisions together, much money might be saved, and much comfort gained. So I spoke to my friend -- or my enemy -- the man I told you of -- and he found fault with every detail of my plan; and in consequence I laid it aside, both as impracticable, and also because if I forced it into operation I should be interfering with the independence of my men; when, suddenly, this Higgins came to me and graciously signified his approval of a scheme so nearly the same as mine, that I might fairly have claimed it; and, moreover, the approval of several of his fellow-workmen, to whom he had spoken. I was a little "riled," I confess, by his manner, and thought of throwing the whole thing overboard to sink or swim. But it seemed childish to relinquish a plan which I had once thought wise and well-laid, just because I myself did not receive all the honour and consequence due to the originator. So I coolly took the part assigned to me, which is something like that of steward to a club. I buy in the provisions wholesale, and provide a fitting matron or cook
I hope you give satisfaction in your new capacity. Are you a good judge of potatoes and onions? But I suppose Mrs. Thornton assists you in your marketing
Not a bit
She disapproves of the whole plan, and now we never mention it to each other. But I manage pretty well, getting in great stocks from Liverpool, and being served in butcher's meat by our own family butcher. I can assure you, the hot dinners the matron turns out are by no means to be despised
Do you taste each dish as it goes in, in virtue of your office? I hope you have a white wand
I was very scrupulous, at first, in confining myself to the mere purchasing part, and even in that I rather obeyed the men's orders conveyed through the housekeeper, than went by my own judgment. At one time, the beef was too large, at another the mutton was not fat enough. I think they saw how careful I was to leave them free, and not to intrude my own ideas upon them; so, one day, two or three of the men -- my friend Higgins among them -- asked me if I would not come in and take a snack. It was a very busy day, but I saw that the men would be hurt if, after making the advance, I didn't meet them half-way, so I went in, and I never made a better dinner in my life. I told them (my next neighbours I mean, for I'm no speech-maker) how much I'd enjoyed it; and for some time, whenever that especial dinner recurred in their dietary, I was sure to be met by these men, with a "Master, there's hot-pot for dinner to-day, win yo' come?" If they had not asked me, I would no more have intruded on them than I'd have gone to the mess at the barracks without invitation
I should think you were rather a restraint on your hosts' conversation. They can't abuse the masters while you're there. I suspect they take it out on non-hot-pot days
Well! hitherto we've steered clear of all vexed questions. But if any of the old disputes came up again, I would certainly speak out my mind next hot-pot day. But you are hardly acquainted with our Darkshire fellows, for all you're a Darkshire man yourself They have such a sense of humour, and such a racy mode of expression! I am getting really to know some of them now, and they talk pretty freely before me
Nothing like the act of eating for equalising men. Dying is nothing to it. The philosopher dies sententiously -- the pharisee ostentatiously -- the simple-hearted humbly -- the poor idiot blindly, as the sparrow falls to the ground; the philosopher and idiot, publican and pharisee, all eat after the same fashion -- given an equally good digestion. There's theory for theory for you
Indeed I have no theory; I hate theories
I beg your pardon. To show my penitence, will you accept a ten pound note towards your marketing, and give the poor fellows a feast
Thank you; but I'd rather not. They pay me rent for the oven and cooking-places at the back of the mill: and will have to pay more for the new dining-room. I don't want it to fall into a charity. I don't want donations. Once let in the principle, and I should have people going, and talking, and spoiling the simplicity of the whole thing
People will talk about any new plan. You can't help that
My enemies, if I have any, may make a philanthropic fuss about this dinner-scheme; but you are a friend, and I expect you will pay my experiment the respect of silence. It is but a new broom at present, and sweeps clean enough. But by-and-by we shall meet with plenty of stumbling-blocks, no doubt
The meanest thing to which we bid adieu, Loses its meanness in the parting hour
MY DEAR MARGARET:-- I did mean to have returned to Milton on Thursday, but unluckily it turns out to be one of the rare occasions when we, Plymouth Fellows, are called upon to perform any kind of duty, and I must not be absent from my post. Captain Lennox and Mr. Thornton are here. The former seems a smart, well-meaning man; and has proposed to go over to Milton, and assist you in any search for the will; of course there is none, or you would have found it by this time, if you followed my directions. Then the Captain declares he must take you and his mother-in-law home; and, in his wife's present state, I don't see how you can expect him to remain away longer than Friday. However, that Dixon of yours is trusty; and can hold her, or your own, till I come. I will put matters into the hands of my Milton attorney if there is no will; for I doubt this smart captain is no great man of business. Nevertheless, his moustachios are splendid. There will have to be a sale, so select what things you wish reserved. Or you can send a list afterwards. Now two things more, and I have done. You know, or if you don't, your poor father did, that you are to have my money and goods when I die. Not that I mean to die yet; but I name this lust to explain what is coming. These Lennoxes seem very fond of you now; and perhaps may continue to be; perhaps not. So it is best to start with a formal agreement; namely, that you are to pay them two hundred and fifty pounds a year, as long as you and they find it pleasant to live together. (This, of course, includes Dixon; mind you don't be cajoled into paying any more for her.) Then you won't be thrown adrift, if some day the captain wishes to have his house to himself, but you can carry yourself and your two hundred and fifty pounds off somewhere else; if, indeed, I have not claimed you to come and keep house for me first. Then as to dress, and Dixon, and personal expenses, and confectionery (all young ladies eat confectionery till wisdom comes by age), I shall consult some lady of my acquaintance, and see how much you will have from your father before fixing this. Now, Margaret, have you flown out before you have read this far, and wondered what right the old man has to settle your affairs for you so cavalierly? I make no doubt you have. Yet the old man has a right. He has loved your father for five and thirty years; he stood beside him on his wedding-day; he closed his eyes in death. Moreover, he is your godfather; and as he cannot do you much good spiritually, having a hidden consciousness of your superiority in such things, he would fain do you the poor good of endowing you materially. And the old man has not a known relation on earth; "who is there to mourn for Adam Bell?" and his whole heart is set and bent upon this one thing, and Margaret Hale is not the girl to say him nay. Write by return, if only two lines, to tell me your answer. But ~no thanks
Margaret Hale is not the girl to say him nay
My dearest child! Has that letter vexed or troubled you
No
I shall be better when to-morrow is over
I feel sure, darling, you won't be better till I get you out of this horrid air. How you can have borne it this two years I can't imagine
Where could I go to? I could not leave papa and mamma
Well! don't distress yourself, my dear. I dare say it was all for the best, only I had no conception of how you were living. Our butler's wife lives in a better house than this
It is sometimes very pretty -- in summer; you can't judge by what it is now. I have been very happy here
These books, Dixon, I will keep. All the rest will you send to Mr. Bell? They are of a kind that he will value for themselves, as well as for papa's sake. This ---- I should like you to take this to Mr. Thornton, after I am gone. Stay; I will write a note with it
DEAR SIR,-- The accompanying book I am sure will be valued by you for the sake of my father, to whom it belonged. 'Yours sincerely, 

'MARGARET HALE
she doubted whether Miss Hale heard a word of what she said, though she talked the whole time, in order to divert her attention
I am sure, my dear, you can have no friends here with whom you are sufficiently intimate to justify you in calling upon them so soon; before you have been at church
But to-day is my only day; if Captain Lennox comes this afternoon, and if we must -- if I must really go to-morrow
Oh, yes; we shall go to-morrow. I am more and more convinced that this air is bad for you, and makes you look so pale and ill; besides, Edith expects us; and she may be waiting me; and you cannot be left alone, my dear, at your age. No; if you must pay these calls, I will go with you. Dixon can get us a coach, I suppose
I should like to have some little thing to remind me of Bessy
Oh, take summut better; that only cost fourpence
That will do, thank you
Now to Mrs. Thornton's
It must be done
What an icy room
Allow me to introduce my aunt, Mrs. Shaw. I am going away from Milton to-morrow; I do not know if you are aware of it; but I wanted to see you once again, Mrs. Thornton, to -- to apologise for my manner the last time I saw you; and to say that I am sure you meant kindly -- however much we may have misunderstood each other
Miss Hale, I am glad you do me justice. I did no more than I believed to be my duty in remonstrating with you as I did. I have always desired to act the part of a friend to you. I am glad you do me justice
And
will you do me justice, and believe that though I cannot -- I do not choose -- to give explanations of my conduct, I have not acted in the unbecoming way you apprehended
Yes, I do believe you. Let us say no more about it. Where are you going to reside, Miss Hale? I understood from Mr. Bell that you were going to leave Milton. You never liked Milton, you know
but for all that, you must not expect me to congratulate you on quitting it. Where shall you live
With my aunt
My niece will reside with me in Harley Street. She is almost like a daughter to me
and I am glad to acknowledge my own obligation for any kindness that has been shown to her. If you and your husband ever come to town, my son and daughter, Captain and Mrs. Lennox, will, I am sure, join with me in wishing to do anything in our power to show you attention
My husband is dead. Mr. Thornton is my son. I never go to London; so I am not likely to be able to avail myself of your polite offers
John
this lady is Mrs. Shaw, Miss Hale's aunt. I am sorry to say, that Miss Hale's call is to wish us good-bye
You are going then
Yes
We leave to-morrow
My son-in-law comes this evening to escort us
No
I put it to the touch once, and I lost it all. Let her go,-- with her stony heart, and her beauty;-- how set and terrible her look is now, for all her loveliness of feature! She is afraid I shall speak what will require some stern repression. Let her go. Beauty and heiress as she may be, she will find it hard to meet with a truer heart than mine. Let her go
I-told-you-so's
Oh! let us go. I cannot be patient here. I shall not get well here. I want to forget
Eh
Not a grand lady
You're quite right
You only do me justice. And you'll not forget me, I'm sure. If no one else in Milton remembers me, I'm certain you will; and papa too. You know how good and how tender he was. Look, Higgins! here is his bible. I have kept it for you. I can ill spare it; but I know he would have liked you to have it. I'm sure you'll care for it, and study what is In it, for his sake
bout the sound o' money passing between us
For the children -- for Boucher's children
They may need it. You've no right to refuse it for them. I would not give you a penny
don't think there's any of it for you
A dull rotation, never at a stay, Yesterday's face twin image of to-day
Of what each one should be, he sees the form and rule, And till he reach to that, his joy can ne'er be full
Poor child
It is a little sad for you to be left, night after night, just at this time when all the world is so gay. But we shall be having our dinner-parties soon -- as soon as Henry comes back from circuit -- and then there will be a little pleasant variety for you. No wonder it is moped, poor darling
so different
from the old dowager dinners under mamma's regime
Oh, Mr. Bell! I never thought of seeing you
But you give me a welcome, I hope, as well as that very pretty start of surprise
Have you dined? How did you come? Let me order you some dinner
If you're going to have any. Otherwise, you know, there is no one who cares less for eating than I do. But where are the others? Gone out to dinner? Left you alone
Oh yes! and it is such a rest. I was just thinking -- But will you run the risk of dinner? I don't know if there is anything in the house
Why, to tell you the truth, I dined at my club. Only they don't cook as well as they did, so I thought, if you were going to dine, I might try and make out my dinner. But never mind, never mind! There aren't ten cooks in England to be trusted at impromptu dinners. If their skill and their fires will stand it, their tempers won't. You shall make me some tea, Margaret. And now, what were you thinking of? you were going to tell me. Whose letters were those, god-daughter, that you hid away so speedily
Only Dixon's
Whew! is that all? Who do you think came up in the train with me
I don't know
Your what d'ye call him? What's the right name for a cousin-in-law's brother
Mr. Henry Lennox
Yes
You knew him formerly, didn't you? What sort of a person is he, Margaret
I liked him long ago
You know we have been corresponding about Frederick since; but I have not seen him for nearly three years, and he may be changed. What did you think of him
I don't know. He was so busy trying to find out who I was, in the first instance, and what I was in the second, that he never let out what he was; unless indeed that veiled curiosity of his as to what manner of man he had to talk to was not a good piece, and a fair indication of his character. Do you call him good looking, Margaret
No! certainly not. Do you
Not I. But I thought, perhaps, you might. Is he a great deal here
I fancy he is when he is in town. He has been on circuit now since I came. But -- Mr. Bell -- have you come from Oxford or from Milton
From Milton. Don't you see I'm smoke-dried
Certainly. But I thought that it might be the effect of the antiquities of Oxford
Come now, be a sensible woman! In Oxford, I could have managed all the landlords in the place, and had my own way, with half the trouble your Milton landlord has given me, and defeated me after all. He won't take the house off our hands till next June twelvemonth. Luckily, Mr. Thornton found a tenant for it. Why don't you ask after Mr. Thornton, Margaret? He has proved himself a very active friend of yours, I can tell you. Taken more than half the trouble off my hands
And how is he? How is Mrs. Thornton
I suppose they're well. I've been staying at their house till I was driven out of it by the perpetual clack about that Thornton girl's marriage. It was too much for Thornton himself, though she was his sister. He used to go and sit in his own room perpetually. He's getting past the age for caring for such things, either as principal or accessory. I was surprised to find the old lady falling into the current, and carried away by her daughter's enthusiasm for orange-blossoms and lace. I thought Mrs. Thornton had been made of sterner stuff
She would put on any assumption of feeling to veil her daughter's weakness
Perhaps so. You've studied her, have you? She doesn't seem over fond of you, Margaret
I know it
Oh, here is tea at last
Mr. Lennox, I have been so much obliged to you for all you have done about Frederick
I am only sorry it has been so unsuccessful
That Horrocks -- that very last witness of all, has proved as unavailing as all the others. Mr. Lennox has discovered that he sailed for Australia only last August; only two months before Frederick was in England, and gave us the names of
Frederick in England! you never told me that
I thought you knew. I never doubted you had been told. Of course, it was a great secret, and perhaps I should not have named it now
I have never named it to either my brother or your cousin
Never mind, Margaret. I am not living in a talking, babbling world, nor yet among people who are trying to worm facts out of me; you needn't look so frightened because you have let the cat out of the bag to a faithful old hermit like me. I shall never name his having been in England; I shall be out of temptation, for no one will ask me. Stay
was it at your mother's funeral
He was with mamma when she died
To be sure! To be sure! Why, some one asked me if he had not been over then, and I denied it stoutly -- not many weeks ago -- who could it have been? Oh! I recollect
I suppose as Mr. Bell is now acquainted with all the circumstances attending your brother's unfortunate dilemma, I cannot do better than inform him exactly how the research into the evidence we once hoped to produce in his favour stands at present. So, if he will do me the honour to breakfast with me to-morrow, we will go over the names of these missing gentry
I should like to hear all the particulars, if I may. Cannot you come here? I dare not ask you both to breakfast, though I am sure you would be welcome. But let me know all I can about Frederick, even though there may be no hope at present
I have an engagement at half-past eleven. But I will certainly come if you wish it
Well
I don't know what Mr. Lennox is inclined to do, but I'm disposed to be moving off homewards. I've been a journey to-day, and journeys begin to tell upon my sixty and odd years
I believe I shall stay and see my brother and sister
Don't go yet, please, Mr. Bell
I want you to see Edith; and I want Edith to know you. Please
You see how she overpowers me, Mr. Lennox
And I hope you noticed the happy choice of her expressions; she wants me to "see" this cousin Edith, who, I am told, is a great beauty; but she has the honesty to change her word when she comes to me -- Mrs. Lennox is to "know" me. I suppose I am not much to "see," eh, Margaret
What a shame that we were not at home to receive you
You, too, Henry! though I don't know that we should have stayed at home for you. And for Mr. Bell! for Margaret's Mr. Bell
There is no knowing what sacrifices you would not have made
Even a dinner-party! and the delight of wearing this very becoming dress
I hope Mr. Bell will make our house his own during his stay in London
I am only so sorry we cannot offer him a bed-room
Thank you. I am much obliged to you. You would only think me a churl if you had, for I should decline it, I believe, in spite of all the temptations of such agreeable company
You have known Miss Hale for a long time, I believe. How do you think her looking? She strikes me as pale and ill
I thought her looking remarkably well. Perhaps not when I first came in -- now I think of it. But certainly, when she grew animated, she looked as well as ever I saw her do
She has had a great deal to go through
Yes! I have been sorry to hear of all she has had to bear; not merely the common and universal sorrow arising from death, but all the annoyance which her father's conduct must have caused her, and then
Her father's conduct
Perhaps I have been wrongly informed. But I have been told, by his successor in the living -- a clever, sensible man, and a thoroughly active clergyman -- that there was no call upon Mr. Hale to do what he did, relinquish the living, and throw himself and his family on the tender mercies of private teaching in a manufacturing town; the bishop had offered him another living, it is true, but if he had come to entertain certain doubts, he could have remained where he was, and so had no occasion to resign. But the truth is, these country clergymen live such isolated lives -- isolated, I mean, from all intercourse with men of equal cultivation with themselves, by whose minds they might regulate their own, and discover when they were going either too fast or too slow -- that they are very apt to disturb themselves with imaginary doubts as to the articles of faith, and throw up certain opportunities of doing good for very uncertain fancies of their own
I differ from you. I do not think they are very apt to do as my poor friend Hale did
Perhaps I used too general an expression, in saying "very apt." But certainly, their lives are such as very often to produce either inordinate self-sufficiency, or a morbid state of conscience
You don't meet with any self-sufficiency among the lawyers, for instance
And seldom, I imagine, any cases of morbid conscience
To be sure, there is something fine in a man of Mr. Hale's age leaving his home of twenty years, and giving up all settled habits, for an idea which was probably erroneous -- but that does not matter -- an untangible thought. One cannot help admiring him, with a mixture of pity in one's admiration, something like what one feels for Don Quixote. Such a gentleman as he was too! I shall never forget the refined and simple hospitality he showed to me that last day at Helstone
Aye! And you don't know Milton. Such a change from Helstone! It is years since I have been at Helstone -- but I'll answer for it, it is standing there yet -- every stick and every stone as it has done for the last century, while Milton! I go there every four or five years -- and I was born there -- yet I do assure you, I often lose my way -- aye, among the very piles of warehouses that are built upon my father's orchard. Do we part here? Well, good night, sir; I suppose we shall meet in Harley Street to-morrow morning
Where are the sounds that swam along The buoyant air when I was young? The last vibration now is o'er, And they who listened are no more; Ah! let me close my eyes and dream
I had better not go on
It was a foolish proposal of mine. Lieutenant Hale
Lieutenant Hale is happy now; more secure in fortune and future prospects than he could ever have been in the navy; and has, doubtless, adopted his wife's country as his own
That is it
It seems so selfish in me to regret it
and yet he is lost to me, and I am so lonely
Margaret
I am going down to Helstone to-morrow, to look at the old place. Would you like to come with me? Or would it give you too much pain? Speak out, don't be afraid
Oh, Mr. Bell
Come, come; that's enough
It's no use my trying to say how much I shall like it
Well, then, prove your gratitude by keeping those fountains of yours dry for the next two days. If you don't, I shall feel queer myself about the lachrymal ducts, and I don't like that
I won't cry a drop
There's my good girl. Then we'll go up-stairs and settle it all
she was sure it had been a very kind thought of Mr. Bell's, and just what she herself had been wishing for Margaret, as giving her the very change which she required, after all the anxious time she had had
the days that are no more
Why, bless me
It's Miss Hale, Jenny
Come here, come directly, it's Miss Hale
And how are you all? How's the Vicar and Miss Dixon? The Vicar above all! God bless him! We've never ceased to be sorry that he left
Papa
Surely, sir, it's never so
There was a gentleman here in the spring -- it might have been as long ago as last winter -- who told us a deal of Mr. Hale and Miss Margaret; and he said Mrs. Hale was gone, poor lady. But never a word of the Vicar's being ailing
It is so, however
He died quite suddenly, when on a visit to me at Oxford. He was a good man, Mrs. Purkis, and there's many of us that might be thankful to have as calm an end as his. Come Margaret, my dear! Her father was my oldest friend, and she's my god-daughter, so I thought we would just come down together and see the old place; and I know of old you can give us comfortable rooms and a capital dinner. You don't remember me I see, but my name is Bell, and once or twice when the parsonage has been full, I've slept here, and tasted your good ale
To be sure; I ask your pardon; but you see I was taken up with Miss Hale. Let me show you to a room, Miss Margaret, where you can take off your bonnet, and wash your face. It's only this very morning I plunged some fresh-gathered roses head downward in the water-jug, for, thought I, perhaps some one will be coming, and there's nothing so sweet as spring-water scented by a musk rose or two. To think of the Vicar being dead! Well, to be sure, we must all die; only that gentleman said, he was quite picking up after his trouble about Mrs. Hale's death
Come down to me, Mrs. Purkis, after you have attended to Miss Hale. I want to have a consultation with you about dinner
Aye
Shall we go past the vicarage
No, not yet. We will go this way, and make a round so as to come back by it
I did not think I had been so old
Yes
It is the first changes among familiar things that make such a mystery of time to the young, afterwards we lose the sense of the mysterious. I take changes in all I see as a matter of course. The instability of all human things is familiar to me, to you it is new and oppressive
Let us go on to see little Susan
With all my heart, though I have not an idea who little Susan may be. But I have a kindness for all Susans, for simple Susan's sake
My little Susan was disappointed when I left without wishing her goodbye; and it has been on my conscience ever since, that I gave her pain which a little more exertion on my part might have prevented. But it is a long way. Are you sure you will not be tired
Quite sure. That is, if you don't walk so fast. You see, here there are no views that can give one an excuse for stopping to take breath. You would think it romantic to be walking with a person "fat and scant o' breath" if I were Hamlet, Prince of Denmark. Have compassion on my infirmities for his sake
I will walk slower for your own sake. I like you twenty times better than Hamlet
On the principle that a living ass is better than a dead lion
Perhaps so. I don't analyse my feelings
I am content to take your liking me, without examining too curiously into the materials it is made of. Only we need not walk at a snail's' pace
Very well. Walk at your own pace, and I will follow. Or stop still and meditate, like the Hamlet you compare yourself to, if I go too fast
Thank you. But as my mother has not murdered my father, and afterwards married my uncle, I shouldn't know what to think about, unless it were balancing the chances of our having a well-cooked dinner or not. What do you think
I am in good hopes. She used to be considered a famous cook as far as Helstone opinion went
But have you considered the distraction of mind produced by all this haymaking
Oh! it is quite right
I am very glad to hear it. I might have thought of it. Only she used to stop at home with you
Yes, she did; and I miss her sadly. I used to teach her what little I knew at nights. It were not much to be sure. But she were getting such a handy girl, that I miss her sore. But she's a deal above me in learning now
I'm all wrong
Don't mind what I say. I'm a hundred years behind the world. But I should say, that the child was getting a better and simpler, and more natural education stopping at home, and helping her mother, and learning to read a chapter in the New Testament every night by her side, than from all the schooling under the sun
How is old Betty Barnes
I don't know
We'se not friends
Why not
She stole my cat
Did she know it was yours
I don't know. I reckon not
Well! could not you get it back again when you told her it was yours
No! for she'd burnt it
Burnt it
Roasted it
it were very cruel for sure, and she should not like to do it; but that there were nothing like it for giving a person what they wished for; she had heard it all her life; but it were very cruel for all that
You are a good girl not to triumph over me
How? What do you mean
I own, I am wrong about schooling. Anything rather than have that child brought up in such practical paganism
Oh! I remember. Poor little Susan! I must go and see her; would you mind calling at the school
Not a bit. I am curious to see something of the teaching she is to receive
It's Miss Hale
Your father, I presume, Miss Hale. I see it by the likeness. I am sure I am very glad to see you, sir, and so will the Vicar be
Ah! I see you would like to take a class, Miss Hale. I know it by myself. First class stand up for a parsing lesson with Miss Hale
a
A, an indefinite article
I beg your pardon
but we are taught by Mr. Milsome to call "a" an -- who can remember
An adjective absolute
Ah
you must excuse this untidiness, Miss Hale. When the nursery is finished, I shall insist upon a little order. We are building a nursery out of your room, I believe. How did you manage, Miss Hale, without a nursery
We were but two
You have many children, I presume
Seven. Look here! we are throwing out a window to the road on this side. Mr. Hepworth is spending an immense deal of money on this house; but really it was scarcely habitable when we came -- for so large a family as ours I mean, of course
Don't scold, Margaret. It was all because of you. If she had not shown you every change with such evident exultation in their superior sense, in perceiving what an improvement this and that would be, I could have behaved well. But if you must go on preaching, keep it till after dinner, when it will send me to sleep, and help my digestion
Hallo! Who's there! Where are we? Who's that,-- Margaret? Oh, now I remember all. I could not imagine what woman was sitting there in such a doleful attitude, with her hands clasped straight out upon her knees, and her face looking so steadfastly before her. What were you looking at
Nothing
Nothing indeed! A bleak back-ground of trees, some white linen hung out on the sweet-briar hedge, and a great waft of damp air. Shut the window, and come in and make tea
Mr. Bell, you remember what we were saying about Frederick last night, don't you
Last night. Where was I? Oh, I remember! Why it seems a week ago. Yes, to be sure, I recollect we talked about him, poor fellow
Yes -- and do you not remember that Mr. Lennox spoke about his having been in England about the time of dear mamma's death
I recollect. I hadn't heard of it before
And I thought -- I always thought that papa had told you about it
No! he never did. But what about it, Margaret
I want to tell you of something I did that was very wrong, about that time
I told a lie
True, that was bad I own; not but what I have told a pretty round number in my life, not all in downright words, as I suppose you did, but in actions, or in some shabby circumlocutory way, leading people either to disbelieve the truth, or believe a falsehood. You know who is the father of lies, Margaret? Well! a great number of folk, thinking themselves very good, have odd sorts of connexion with lies, left-hand marriages, and second cousins-once-removed. The tainting blood of falsehood runs through us all. I should have guessed you as far from it as most people. What! crying, child? Nay, now we'll not talk of it, if it ends in this way. I dare say you have been sorry for it, and that you won't do it again, and it's long ago now, and in short I want you to be very cheerful, and not very sad, this evening
Please, Mr. Bell, let me tell you about it -- you could perhaps help me a little; no, not help me, but if you knew the truth, perhaps you could put me to rights -- that is not it, after all
Tell me all about it, child
It's a long story; but when Fred came, mamma was very ill, and I was undone with anxiety, and afraid, too, that I might have drawn him into danger; and we had an alarm just after her death, for Dixon met some one in Milton -- a man called Leonards -- who had known Fred, and who seemed to owe him a grudge, or at any rate to be tempted by the recollection of the reward offered for hisapprehension; and with this new fright, I thought I had better hurry off Fred to London, where, as you would understand from what we said the other night, he was to go to consult Mr. Lennox as to his chances if he stood the trial. So we -- that is, he and I,-- went to the railway station; it was one evening, and it was just getting rather dusk, but still light enough to recognise and be recognised, and we were too early, and went out to walk in a field just close by; I was always in a panic about this Leonards, who was, I knew, somewhere in the neighbourhood; and then, when we were in the field, the low red sunlight just in my face, some one came by on horseback in the road just below the field-style by which we stood. I saw him look at me, but I did not know who it was at first, the sun was so in my eyes, but in an instant the dazzle went off, and I saw it was Mr. Thornton, and we bowed
And he saw Frederick of course
Yes; and then at the station a man came up -- tipsy and reeling -- and he tried to collar Fred, and over-balanced himself as Fred wrenched himself away, and fell over the edge of the platform; not far, not deep; not above three feet; but oh! Mr. Bell, somehow that fall killed him
How awkward. It was this Leonards, I suppose. And how did Fred get off
Oh! he went off immediately after the fall, which we never thought could have done the poor fellow any harm, it seemed so slight an injury
Then he did not die directly
No! not for two or three days. And then -- oh, Mr. Bell! now comes the bad part
A police inspector came and taxed me with having been the companion of the young man, whose push or blow had occasioned Leonards' death; that was a false accusation, you know, but we had not heard that Fred had sailed, he might still be in London and liable to be arrested on this false charge, and his identity with the Lieutenant Hale, accused of causing that mutiny, discovered, he might be shot; all this flashed through my mind, and I said it was not me. I was not at the railway station that night. I knew nothing about it. I had no conscience or thought but to save Frederick
I say it was right. I should have done the same. You forgot yourself in thought for another. I hope I should have done the same
No, you would not. It was wrong, disobedient, faithless. At that very time Fred was safely out of England, and in my blindness I forgot that there was another witness who could testify to my being there
Who
Mr. Thornton. You know he had seen me close to the station; we had bowed to each other
Well! he would know nothing of this riot about the drunken fellow's death. I suppose the inquiry never came to anything
No! the proceedings they had begun to talk about on the inquest were stopped. Mr. Thornton did know all about it. He was a magistrate, and he found out that it was not the fall that had caused the death. But not before he knew what I had said. Oh, Mr. Bell
Did you have any explanation with him? Did you ever tell him the strong, instinctive motive
The instinctive want of faith, and clutching at a sin to keep myself from sinking
No! How could I? He knew nothing of Frederick. To put myself to rights in his good opinion, was I to tell him of the secrets of our family, involving, as they seemed to do, the chances of poor Frederick's entire exculpation? Fred's last words had been to enjoin me to keep his visit a secret from all. You see, papa never told, even you. No! I could bear the shame -- I thought I could at least. I did bear it. Mr. Thornton has never respected me since
He respects you, I am sure
To be sure, it accounts a little for ----. But he always speaks of you with regard and esteem, though now I understand certain reservations in his manner
Will you tell me what you refer to about "reservations" in his manner of speaking of me
Oh! simply he has annoyed me by not joining in my praises of you. Like an old fool, I thought that every one would have the same opinions as I had; and he evidently could not agree with me. I was puzzled at the time. But he must be perplexed, if the affair has never been in the least explained. There was first your walking out with a young man in the dark
But it was my brother
True. But how was he to know that
I don't know. I never thought of anything of that kind
And perhaps he never would, but for the lie,-- which, under the circumstances, I maintain, was necessary
It was not. I know it now. I bitterly repent it
I am not likely ever to see Mr. Thornton again
There are many things more unlikely, I should say
But I believe I never shall. Still, somehow one does not like to have sunk so low in -- in a friend's opinion as I have done in his
And now that Frederick has given up all hope, and almost all wish of ever clearing himself, and returning to England, it would be only doing myself justice to have all this explained. If you please, and if you can, if there is a good opportunity, (don't force an explanation upon him, pray,) but if you can, will you tell him the whole circumstances, and tell him also that I gave you leave to do so, because I felt that for papa's sake I should not like to lose his respect, though we may never be likely to meet again
Certainly. I think he ought to know. I do not like you to rest even under the shadow of an impropriety; he would not know what to think of seeing you alone with a young man
As for that
I hold it is "Honi soit qui mal y pense." Yet still I should choose to have it explained, if any natural opportunity for easy explanation occurs. But it is not to clear myself of any suspicion of improper conduct that I wish to have him told -- if I thought that he had suspected me, I should not care for his good opinion -- no! it is that he may learn how I was tempted, and how I fell into the snare; why I told that falsehood, in short
Which I don't blame you for. It is no partiality of mine, I assure you
What other people may think of the rightness or wrongness is nothing in comparison to my own deep knowledge, my innate conviction that it was wrong. But we will not talk of that any more, if you please. It is done -- my sin is sinned. I have now to put it behind me, and be truthful for evermore, if I can
Very well. If you like to be uncomfortable and morbid, be so. I always keep my conscience as tight shut up as a jack-in-a-box, for when it jumps into existence it surprises me by its size. So I coax it down again, as the fisherman coaxed the genie. "Wonderful," say I, "to think that you have been concealed so long, and in so small a compass, that I really did not know of your existence. Pray, sir, instead of growing larger and larger every instant, and bewildering me with your misty outlines, would you once more compress yourself into your former dimensions?" And when I've got him down, don't I clap the seal on the vase, and take good care how I open it again, and how I go against Solomon, wisest of men, who confined him there
To turn and look back when thou hearest The sound of my name
I begin to understand now what heaven must be -- and, oh! the grandeur and repose of the words --"The same yesterday, to-day, and for ever." Everlasting! "From everlasting to everlasting, Thou art God." That sky above me looks as though it could not change, and yet it will. I am so tired -- so tired of being whirled on through all these phases of my life, in which nothing abides by me, no creature, no place; it is like the circle in which the victims of earthly passion eddy continually. I am in the mood in which women of another religion take the veil. I seek heavenly steadfastness in earthly monotony. If I were a Roman Catholic and could deaden my heart, stun it with some great blow, I might become a nun. But I should pine after my kind; no, not my kind, for love for my species could never fill my heart to the utter exclusion of love for individuals. Perhaps it ought to be so, perhaps not; I cannot decide to-night
After all it is right
If the world stood still, it would retrograde and become corrupt, if that is not Irish. Looking out of myself, and my own painful sense of change, the progress all around me is right and necessary. I must not think so much of how circumstances affect me myself, but how they affect others, if I wish to have a right judgment, or a hopeful trustful heart
Ah, Missy! you were up late last night, and so you're late this morning. Now I've got a little piece of news for you. What do you think of an invitation to dinner? a morning call, literally in the dewy morning. Why, I've had the Vicar here already, on his way to the school. How much the desire of giving our hostess a teetotal lecture for the benefit of the haymakers, had to do with his earliness, I don't know; but here he was, when I came down just before nine; and we are asked to dine there to-day
But Edith expects me back -- I cannot go
Yes! I know; so I told him. I thought you would not want to go. Still it is open, if you would like it
Oh, no
Let us keep to our plan. Let us start at twelve. It is very good and kind of them; but indeed I could not go
Very well. Don't fidget yourself, and I'll arrange it all
Experience, like a pale musician, holds A dulcimer of patience in his hand; Whence harmonies we cannot understand, Of God's will in His worlds, the strain unfolds In sad, perplexed minors
She's a Papist, Miss, isn't she
I believe -- oh yes, certainly
And they live in a Popish country
Yes
Then I'm afraid I must say, that my soul is dearer to me than even Master Frederick, his own dear self. I should be in a perpetual terror, Miss, lest I should be converted
I do not know that I am going; and if I go, I am not such a fine lady as to be unable to travel without you. No! dear old Dixon, you shall have a long holiday, if we go. But I'm afraid it is a long "if
dear old Dixon' whenever she was particularly demonstrative. She knew that Miss Hale was apt to call all people that she liked 'old
I fancy it was love that first predisposed him to conversion
Indeed, Miss
well! I can preserve myself from priests, and from churches; but love steals in unawares! I think it's as well I should not go
Oh dear, what shall I do with him! Do, Margaret, please ring the bell for Hanley
And is that all you live for
My own, my father's friend! I cannot part with thee! I ne'er have shown, thou ne'er hast known, How dear thou art to me
You did not look pleased at what Shirley was saying at dinner
Didn't I? My face must be very expressive
It always was. It has not lost the trick of being eloquent
I did not like
his way of advocating what he knew to be wrong -- so glaringly wrong -- even in jest
But it was very clever. How every word told! Do you remember the happy epithets
Yes
And despise them, you would like to add. Pray don't scruple, though he is my friend
There! that is the exact tone in you, that
If my tones, or modes of thought, are what you dislike, will you do me the justice to tell me so, and so give me the chance of learning to please you
Coming up to town! Oh dear! and I am so worn out by the heat that I don't believe I have strength enough in me for another dinner. Besides, everybody has left but our dear stupid selves, who can't settle where to go to. There would be nobody to meet him
I'm sure he would much rather come and dine with us quite alone than with the most agreeable strangers you could pick up. Besides, if he is not well he won't wish for invitations. I am glad he has owned it at last. I was sure he was ill from the whole tone of his letters, and yet he would not answer me when I asked him, and I had no third person to whom I could apply for news
Oh! he is not very ill, or he would not think of Spain
He never mentions Spain
No! but his plan that is to be proposed evidently relates to that. But would you really go in such weather as this
Oh! it will get cooler every day. Yes! Think of it! I am only afraid I have thought and wished too much -- in that absorbing wilful way which is sure to be disappointed -- or else gratified, to the letter, while in the spirit it gives no pleasure
But that's superstitious, I'm sure, Margaret
No, I don't think it is. Only it ought to warn me, and check me from giving way to such passionate wishes. It is a sort of "Give me children, or else I die." I'm afraid my cry is, "Let me go to Cadiz, or else I die
My dear Margaret! You'll be persuaded to stay there; and then what shall I do? Oh! I wish I could find somebody for you to marry here, that I could be sure of you
I shall never marry
Nonsense, and double nonsense! Why, as Sholto says, you're such an attraction to the house, that he knows ever so many men who will be glad to Visit here next year for your sake
Do you know, Edith, I sometimes think your Corfu life has taught you
Well
Just a shade or two of coarseness
Oh, dear Margaret! how shocking! What are you doing? Are you going out? Sholto would telegraph or do anything you like
I am going to Oxford. There is a train in half-an-hour. Dixon has offered to go with me, but I could have gone by myself. I must see him again. Besides, he may be better, and want some care. He has been like a father to me. Don't stop me, Edith
But I must. Mamma won't like it at all. Come and ask her about it, Margaret. You don't know where you're going. I should not mind if he had a house of his own; but in his Fellow's rooms! Come to mamma, and do ask her before you go. It will not take a minute
And down the sunny beach she paces slowly, With many doubtful pauses by the way; Grief hath an influence so hush'd and holy
Is not Margaret the heiress
I am right, and you are wrong, most noble Captain. Margaret has had a lawyer's letter, and she is residuary legatee -- the legacies being about two thousand pounds, and the remainder about forty thousand, at the present value of property in Milton
Indeed! and how does she take her good fortune
Oh, it seems she knew she was to have it all along; only she had no idea it was so much. She looks very white and pale, and says she's afraid of it; but that's nonsense, you know, and will soon go off. I left mamma pouring congratulations down her throat, and stole away to tell you
Henry
do you know what I hope and expect all these long conversations with Margaret will end in
No, I don't
And I desire you not to tell me
Oh, very well; then I need not tell Sholto not to ask Mr. Montagu so often to the house
Just as you choose
What you are thinking of, may or may not happen; but this time, before I commit myself, I will see my ground clear. Ask whom you choose. It may not be very civil, Edith, but if you meddle in it you will mar it. She has been very farouche with me for a long time; and is only just beginning to thaw a little from her Zenobia ways. She has the making of a Cleopatra in her, if only she were a little more pagan
For my part
I am very glad she is a Christian. I know so very few
The sea has done Miss Hale an immense deal of good, I should fancy
She looks ten years younger than she did in Harley Street
That's the bonnet I got her
I knew it would suit her the moment I saw it
I beg your pardon
But I believe I know the difference between the charms of a dress and the charms of a woman. No mere bonnet would have made Miss Hale's eyes so lustrous and yet so soft, or her lips so ripe and red -- and her face altogether so full of peace and light.-- She is like, and yet more
like the Margaret Hale of Helstone
Only don't be strong-minded
Mamma wants you to have a footman of your own; and I'm sure you're very welcome, for they're great plagues. Only to please me, darling, don't go and have a strong mind; it's the only thing I ask. Footman or no footman, don't be strong-minded
Don't be afraid, Edith. I'll faint on your hands at the servants' dinner-time, the very first opportunity; and then, what with Sholto playing with the fire, and the baby crying, you'll begin to wish for a strong-minded woman, equal to any emergency
And you'll not grow too good to joke and be merry
Not I. I shall be merrier than I have ever been, now I have got my own way
And you'll not go a figure, but let me buy your dresses for you
Indeed I mean to buy them for myself. You shall come with me if you like; but no one can please me but myself
Oh! I was afraid you'd dress in brown and dust-colour, not to show the dirt you'll pick up in all those places. I'm glad you're going to keep one or two vanities, just by way of specimens of the old Adam
I'm going to be just the same, Edith, if you and my aunt could but fancy so. Only as I have neither husband nor child to give me natural duties, I must make myself some, in addition to ordering my gowns
Here we go up, up, up; And here we go down, down, downee
What news? Who is gone? How will it affect me
Thornton is safe
His business is large -- extending every year; but such a head as he has, and so prudent with all his daring
Thornton's business is large; but he has spent his profits in extending it; he has no capital laid by; his machinery is new within these two years, and has cost him -- we won't say what!-- a word to the wise
Her merchants be like princes
we have all of us one human heart
Th' measter's a deal to potter him
Eh! I reckon I know who'd ha' been sorry for to see our measter sitting so like a piece o' grey calico! Th' ou'd parson would ha' fretted his woman's heart out, if he'd seen the woeful looks I have seen on our measter's face
Measter
Have yo' heerd aught of Miss Marget lately
Miss -- who
Miss Marget -- Miss Hale -- th' oud parson's daughter -- yo known who I mean well enough, if yo'll only think a bit
Oh yes
She's my landlord now, you know, Higgins. I hear of her through her agent here, every now and then. She's well and among friends -- thank you, Higgins
And she's not getten married, measter
Not yet
There is some talk of it, as I understand, with a connection of the family
Then she'll not be for coming to Milton again, I reckon
No
Stop a minute, measter
Is th' young gentleman cleared
Th' young gentleman, I mean -- Master Frederick, they ca'ad him -- her brother as was over here, yo' known
Over here
Ay, to be sure, at th' missus's death. Yo' need na be feared of my telling; for Mary and me, we knowed it all along, only we held our peace, for we got it through Mary working. in th' house
And he was over. It was her brother
Sure enough, and I reckoned yo' knowed it or I'd never ha' let on. Yo' knowed she had a brother
Yes, I know all about him. And he was over at Mrs. Hale's death
Nay! I'm not going for to tell more. I've maybe getten them into mischief already, for they kept it very close. I nobbut wanted to know if they'd getten him cleared
Not that I know of. I know nothing. I only hear of Miss Hale, now, as my landlord, and through her lawyer
It was her brother
I am glad. I may never see her again; but it is a comfort -- a relief -- to know that much. I knew she could not be unmaidenly; and yet I yearned for conviction. Now I am glad
Mother! why are not you in bed
Son John
do you think I can sleep with an easy mind, while you keep awake full of care? You have not told me what your trouble is; but sore trouble you have had these many days past
Trade is bad
And you dread
I dread nothing
I know now that no man will suffer by me. That was my anxiety
But how do you stand? Shall you -- will it be a failure
Not a failure. I must give up business, but I pay all men. I might redeem myself -- I am sorely tempted
How? Oh, John! keep up your name -- try all risks for that. How redeem it
By a speculation offered to me, full of risk; but, if successful, placing me high above water-mark, so that no one need ever know the strait I am in. Still, if it fails
And if it fails
Honest men are ruined by a rogue
As I stand now, my creditors, money is safe -- every farthing of it; but I don't know where to find my own -- it may be all gone, and I penniless at this moment. Therefore, it is my creditors' money that I should risk
But if it succeeded, they need never know. Is it so desperate a speculation? I am sure it is not, or you would never have thought of it. If it succeeded
I should be a rich man, and my peace of conscience would be gone
Why! You would have injured no one
No; but I should have run the risk of ruining many for my own paltry aggrandisement. Mother, I have decided! You won't much grieve over our leaving this house, shall you, dear mother
No! but to have you other than what you are will break my heart. What can you do
Be always the same John Thornton in whatever circumstances; endeavouring to do right, and making great blunders; and then trying to be brave in setting to afresh. But it is hard, mother. I have so worked and planned. I have discovered new powers in my situation too late -- and now all is over. I am too old to begin again with the same heart. It is hard, mother
I can't think
how it comes about. Here is my boy -- good son, just man, tender heart -- and he fails in all he sets his mind upon: he finds a woman to love, and she cares no more for his affection than if he had been any common man; he labours, and his labour comes to nought. Other people prosper and grow rich, and hold their paltry names high and dry above shame
Shame never touched me
I sometimes have wondered where justice was gone to, and now I don't believe there is such a thing in the world,-- now you are come to this; you, my own John Thornton, though you and I may be beggars together -- my own dear son
Mother
who has sent me my lot in life, both of good and of evil
Mother
I, too, have been rebellious; but I am striving to be so no longer. Help me, as you helped me when I was a child. Then you said many good words -- when my father died, and we were sometimes sorely short of comforts -- which we shall never be now; you said brave, noble, trustful words then, mother, which I have never forgotten, though they may have lain dormant. Speak to me again in the old way, mother. Do not let us have to think that the world has too much hardened our hearts. If you would say the old good words, it would make me feel something of the pious simplicity of my childhood. I say them to myself, but they would come differently from you, remembering all the cares and trials you have had to bear
I have had a many
but none so sore as this. To see you cast down from your rightful place! I could say it for myself, John, but not for you. Not for you! God has seen fit to be very hard on you, very
Oh, John
Bear up, brave heart! we will be calm and strong; Sure, we can master eyes, or cheek, or tongue, Nor let the smallest tell-tale sign appear She ever was, and is, and will be dear
Oh, Dixon! not those horrid blue flowers to that dead gold-coloured gown. What taste! Wait a minute, and I will bring you some pomegranate blossoms
It's not a dead gold-colour, ma'am. It's a straw-colour. And blue always goes with straw-colour
Where is Miss Hale
I can't think
how my aunt allowed her to get into such rambling habits in Milton! I'm sure I'm always expecting to hear of her having met with something horrible among all those wretched places she pokes herself into. I should never dare to go down some of those streets without a servant. They're not fit for ladies
It's no wonder to my mind, when I hear ladies talk such a deal about being ladies -- and when they're such fearful, delicate, dainty ladies too -- I say it's no wonder to me that there are no longer any saints on earth
Oh, Margaret! here you are! I have been so wanting you. But how your cheeks are flushed with the heat, poor child! But only think what that tiresome Henry has done; really, he exceeds brother-in-law's limits. Just when my party was made up so beautifully -- fitted in so precisely for Mr. Colthurst -- there has Henry come, with an apology it is true, and making use of your name for an excuse, and asked me if he may bring that Mr. Thornton of Milton -- your tenant, you know -- who is in London about some law business. It will spoil my number, quite
I don't mind dinner. I don't want any
Dixon can get me a cup of tea here, and I will be in the drawing-room by the time you come up. I shall really be glad to lie down
No, no! that will never do. You do look wretchedly white, to be sure; but that is just the heat, and we can't do without you possibly. (Those flowers a little lower, Dixon. They look glorious flames, Margaret, in your black hair.) You know we planned you to talk about Milton to Mr. Colthurst. Oh! to be sure! and this man comes from Milton. I believe it will be capital, after all. Mr. Colthurst can pump him well on all the subjects in which he is interested, and it will be great fun to trace out your experiences, and this Mr. Thornton's wisdom, in Mr. Colthurst's next speech in the House. Really, I think it is a happy hit of Henry's. I asked him if he was a man one would be ashamed of; and he replied, "Not if you've any sense in you, my little sister." So I suppose he Is able to sound his h's, which is not a common Darkshire accomplishment -- eh, Margaret
Mr. Lennox did not say why Mr. Thornton was come up to town? Was it law business connected with the property
Oh! he's failed, or something of the kind, that Henry told you of that day you had such a headache,-- what was it? (There, that's capital, Dixon. Miss Hale does us credit, does she not?) I wish I was as tall as a queen, and as brown as a gipsy, Margaret
But about Mr. Thornton
Oh I really have such a terrible head for law business. Henry will like nothing better than to tell you all about it. I know the impression he made upon me was, that Mr. Thornton is very badly off, and a very respectable man, and that I'm to be very civil to him; and as I did not know how, I came to you to ask you to help me. And now come down with me, and rest on the sofa for a quarter of an hour
He came up about this sub-letting the property -- Marlborough Mills, and the house and premises adjoining, I mean. He is unable to keep it on; and there are deeds and leases to be looked over, and agreements to be drawn up. I hope Edith will receive him properly; but she was rather put out, as I could see, by the liberty I had taken in begging for an invitation for him. But I thought you would like to have some attention shown him: and one would be particularly scrupulous in paying every respect to a man who is going down in the world
You think Miss Hale looking well
We
Indeed
I really think Edith owes me thanks for my contribution to her party. You've no idea what an agreeable, sensible fellow this tenant of yours is. He has been the very man to give Colthurst all the facts he wanted coaching in. I can't conceive how he contrived to mismanage his affairs
With his powers and opportunities you would have succeeded
I assure you, I heard it spoken of with great interest -- curiosity as to its result, perhaps I should rather say. I heard your name frequently mentioned during my short stay in the neighbourhood
I have not the elements for popularity -- if they spoke of me in that way, they were mistaken. I fall slowly into new projects; and I find it difficult to let myself be known, even by those whom I desire to know, and with whom I would fain have no reserve. Yet, even with all these drawbacks, I felt that I was on the right path, and that, starting from a kind of friendship with one, I was becoming acquainted with many. The advantages were mutual: we were both unconsciously and consciously teaching each other
You say "were." I trust you are intending to pursue the same course
I must stop Colthurst
I have been unsuccessful in business, and have had to give up my position as a master. I am on the look out for a situation in Milton, where I may meet with employment under some one who will be willing to let me go along my own way in such matters as these. I can depend upon myself for having no go-ahead theories that I would rashly bring into practice. My only wish is to have the opportunity of cultivating some intercourse with the hands beyond the mere "cash nexus." But it might be the point Archimedes sought from which to move the earth, to judge from the importance attached to it by some of our manufacturers, who shake their heads and look grave as soon as I name the one or two experiments that I should like to try
You call them "experiments" I notice
Because I believe them to be such. I am not sure of the consequences that may result from them. But I am sure they ought to be tried. I have arrived at the conviction that no mere institutions, however wise, and however much thought may have been required to organise and arrange them, can attach class to class as they should be attached, unless the working out of such institutions bring the individuals of the different classes into actual personal contact. Such intercourse is the very breath of life. A working man can hardly be made to feel and know how much his employer may have laboured in his study at plans for the benefit of his workpeople. A complete plan emerges like a piece of machinery, apparently fitted for every emergency. But the hands accept it as they do machinery, without understanding the intense mental labour and forethought required to bring it to such perfection. But I would take an idea, the working out of which would necessitate personal intercourse; it might not go well at first, but at every hitch interest would be felt by an increasing number of men, and at last its success in working come to be desired by all, as all had borne a part in the formation of the plan; and even then I am sure that it would lose its vitality, cease to be living, as soon as it was no longer carried on by that sort of common interest which invariably makes people find means and ways of seeing each other, and becoming acquainted with each others' characters and persons, and even tricks of temper and modes of speech. We should understand each other better, and I'll venture to say we should like each other more
And you think they may prevent the recurrence of strikes
Not at all. My utmost expectation only goes so far as this -- that they may render strikes not the bitter, venomous sources of hatred they have hitherto been. A more hopeful man might imagine that a closer and more genial intercourse between classes might do away with strikes. But I am not a hopeful man
Miss Hale, I had a round-robin from some of my men -- I suspect in Higgins' handwriting -- stating their wish to work for me, if ever I was in a position to employ men again on my own behalf. That was good, wasn't it
Yes. Just right. I am glad of it
I knew you would like it
good night
Can I speak to you to-morrow? I want your help about -- something
Certainly. I will come at whatever time you name. You cannot give me a greater pleasure than by making me of any use. At eleven? Very well
For joy or grief, for hope or fear, For all hereafter, as for here, In peace or strife, in storm or shine
Well, Henry
Well
Come in to lunch
No, thank you, I can't. I've lost too much time here already
Then it's not all settled
No! not at all. It never will be settled, if the "it" is what I conjecture you mean. That will never be, Edith, so give up thinking about it
But it would be so nice for us all
I should always feel comfortable about the children, if I had Margaret settled down near me. As it is, I am always afraid of her going off to Cadiz
I will try, when I marry, to look out for a young lady who has a knowledge of the management of children. That is all I can do. Miss Hale would not have me. And I shall not ask her
Then, what have you been talking about
A thousand things you would not understand: investments, and leases, and value of land
Oh, go away if that's all. You and she will be unbearably stupid, if you've been talking all this time about such weary things
Very well. I'm coming again to-morrow, and bringing Mr. Thornton with me, to have some more talk with Miss Hale
Mr. Thornton! What has he to do with it
He is Miss Hale's tenant
And he wishes to give up his lease
Oh! very well. I can't understand details, so don't give them me
The only detail I want you to understand is, to let us have the back drawing-room undisturbed, as it was to-day. In general, the children and servants are so in and out, that I can never get any business satisfactorily explained; and the arrangements we have to make to-morrow are of importance
I am so sorry Mr. Lennox is not here,-- he could have done it so much better than I can. He is my adviser in this'
I am sorry that I came, if it troubles you. Shall I go to Mr. Lennox's chambers and try and find him
No, thank you. I wanted to tell you, how grieved I was to find that I am to lose you as a tenant. But, Mr. Lennox says, things are sure to brighten
Mr. Lennox knows little about it
Happy and fortunate in all a man cares for, he does not understand what it is to find oneself no longer young -- yet thrown back to the starting-point which requires the hopeful energy of youth -- to feel one half of life gone, and nothing done -- nothing remaining of wasted opportunity, but the bitter recollection that it has been. Miss Hale, I would rather not hear Mr. Lennox's opinion of my affairs. Those who are happy and successful themselves are too apt to make light of the misfortunes of others
You are unjust
Mr. Lennox has only spoken of the great probability which he believes there to be of your redeeming -- your more than redeeming what you have lost -- don't speak till I have ended -- pray don't
Oh! here it is! and -- he drew me out a proposal -- I wish he was here to explain it -- showing that if you would take some money of mine, eighteen thousand and fifty-seven pounds, lying just at this moment unused in the bank, and bringing me in only two and a half per cent.-- you could pay me much better interest, and might go on working Marlborough Mills
Margaret
Margaret
Take care.-- If you do not speak -- I shall claim you as my own in some strange presumptuous way.-- Send me away at once, if I must go;-- Margaret
Oh, Mr. Thornton, I am not good enough
Not good enough! Don't mock my own deep feeling of unworthiness
Do you remember, love
And how I requited you with my insolence the next day
I remember how wrongly I spoke to you,-- that is all
Look here! Lift up your head. I have something to show you
Do you know these roses
No
Did I give them to you
No! Vanity; you did not. You may have worn sister roses very probably
They are from Helstone, are they not? I know the deep indentations round the leaves. Oh! have you been there? When were you there
I wanted to see the place where Margaret grew to what she is, even at the worst time of all, when I had no hope of ever calling her mine. I went there on my return from Havre
You must give them to me
Very well. Only you must pay me for them
How shall I ever tell Aunt Shaw
Let me speak to her
Oh, no! I owe to her,-- but what will she say
I can guess. Her first exclamation will be, "That man
Hush
or I shall try and show you your mother's indignant tones as she says, "That woman
</text>
