<text>
HO, Diomed, well met! Do you sup with Glaucus to-night
Alas, no! dear Clodius; he has not invited me
Pretty well -- though there is never enough of wine for me. It is not the old Greek blood that flows in his veins, for he pretends that wine makes him dull the next morning
There may be another reason for that thrift
With all his conceit and extravagance he is not so rich, I fancy, as he affects to be, and perhaps loves to save his amphorae better than his wit
An additional reason for supping with him while the sesterces last. Next year, Diomed, we must find another Glaucus
He is fond of the dice, too, I hear
He is fond of every pleasure; and while he likes the pleasure of giving suppers, we are all fond of him
Ha, ha, Clodius, that is well said! Have you ever seen my wine-cellars, by-the-by
I think not, my good Diomed
Well, you must sup with me some evening; I have tolerable muraenae in my reservoir, and I ask Pansa the aedile to meet you
O, no state with me!-- Persicos odi apparatus, I am easily contented. Well, the day wanes; I am for the baths -- and you
To the quaestor -- business of state -- afterwards to the temple of Isis. Vale
An ostentatious, bustling, ill-bred fellow
He thinks with his feasts and his wine-cellars to make us forget that he is the son of a freedman -- and so we will, when we do him the honour of winning his money; these rich plebeians are a harvest for us spendthrift nobles
What, Clodius! and how have you slept on your good fortune
My dear Glaucus
I rejoice to see that your losses have so little affected your mien. Why, you seem as if you had been inspired by Apollo, and your face shines with happiness like a glory; any one might take you for the winner, and me for the loser
And what is there in the loss or gain of those dull pieces of metal that should change our spirit, my Clodius? By Venus, while yet young, we can cover our full locks with chaplets -- while yet the cithara sounds on unsated ears -- while yet the smile of Lydia or of Chloe flashes over our veins in which the blood runs so swiftly, so long shall we find delight in the sunny air, and make bald time itself but the treasurer of our joys. You sup with me to-night, you know
Who ever forgets the invitation of Glaucus
But which way go you now
Why, I thought of visiting the baths: but it wants yet an hour to the usual time
Well, I will dismiss my chariot, and go with you. So, so, my Phylias
a holiday for you to-day. Is he not handsome, Clodius
Worthy of Phoebus
or of Glaucus
Talk to me no more of Rome
Pleasure is too stately and ponderous in those mighty walls: even in the precincts of the court -- even in the Golden House of Nero, and the incipient glories of the palace of Titus, there is a certain dulness of magnificence -- the eye aches -- the spirit is wearied; besides, my Clodius, we are discontented when we compare the enormous luxury and wealth of others with the mediocrity of our own state. But here we surrender ourselves easily to pleasure, and we have the brilliancy of luxury without the lassitude of its pomp
It was from that feeling that you chose your summer retreat at Pompeii
It was. I prefer it to Baiae: I grant the charms of the latter, but I love not the pedants who resort there, and who seem to weigh out their pleasures by the drachm
Yet you are fond of the learned, too; and as for poetry, why, your house is literally eloquent with AEschylus and Homer, the epic and the drama
Yes, but those Romans who mimic my Athenian ancestors do everything so heavily. Even in the chase they make their slaves carry Plato with them; and whenever the boar is lost, out they take their books and their papyrus, in order not to lose their time too. When the dancing-girls swim before them in all the blandishment of Persian manners, some drone of a freedman, with a face of stone, reads them a section of Cicero "De Officiis". Unskilful pharmacists! pleasure and study are not elements to be thus mixed together, they must be enjoyed separately: the Romans lose both by this pragmatical affectation of refinement, and prove that they have no souls for either. Oh, my Clodius, how little your countrymen know of the true versatility of a Pericles, of the true witcheries of an Aspasia! It was but the other day that I paid a visit to Pliny: he was sitting in his summer-house writing, while an unfortunate slave played on the tibia. His nephew (oh! whip me such philosophical coxcombs!) was reading Thucydides' description of the plague, and nodding his conceited little head in time to the music, while his lips were repeating all the loathsome details of that terrible delineation. The puppy saw nothing incongruous in learning at the same time a ditty of love and a description of the plague
Why, they are much the same thing
So I told him, in excuse for his coxcombry -- but my youth stared me rebukingly in the face, without taking the jest, and answered, that it was only the insensate ear that the music pleased, whereas the book (the description of the plague, mind you!) elevated the heart. "Ah!" quoth the fat uncle, wheezing, "my boy is quite an Athenian, always mixing the utile with the dulce." O Minerva, how I laughed in my sleeve! While I was there, they came to tell the boy-sophist that his favorite freedman was just dead of a fever. "Inexorable death!" cried he; "get me my Horace. How beautifully the sweet poet consoles us for these misfortunes!" Oh, can these men love, my Clodius? Scarcely even with the senses. How rarely a Roman has a heart! He is but the mechanism of genius -- he wants its bones and flesh
It is my poor Thessalian
I have not seen her since my return to Pompeii. Hush! her voice is sweet; let us listen
I must have yon bunch of violets, sweet Nydia
your voice is more charming than ever
So you are returned
Glaucus is returned
Yes, child, I have not been at Pompeii above a few days. My garden wants your care, as before; you will visit it, I trust, to-morrow. And mind, no garlands at my house shall be woven by any hands but those of the pretty Nydia
So she is a sort of client of yours, this child
Ay -- does she not sing prettily? She interests me, the poor slave! Besides, she is from the land of the Gods' hill -- Olympus frowned upon her cradle -- she is of Thessaly
The witches' country
True: but for my part I find every woman a witch; and at Pompeii, by Venus! the very air seems to have taken a love-philtre, so handsome does every face without a beard seem in my eyes
And lo! one of the handsomest in Pompeii, old Diomed's daughter, the rich Julia
Fair Julia, we salute thee
And Glaucus, too, is returned
Has he forgotten
his friends of the last year
Beautiful Julia! even Lethe itself, if it disappear in one part of the earth, rises again in another. Jupiter does not allow us ever to forget for more than a moment: but Venus, more harsh still, vouchsafes not even a moment's oblivion
Glaucus is never at a loss for fair words
Who is, when the object of them is so fair
We shall see you both at my father's villa soon
We will mark the day in which we visit you with a white stone
Julia is certainly handsome
And last year you would have made that confession in a warmer tone
True; I was dazzled at the first sight, and mistook for a gem that which was but an artful imitation
Nay
all women are the same at heart. Happy he who weds a handsome face and a large dower. What more can he desire
It is still early for the bath
let us wander from the crowded city, and look upon the sea while the noon yet laughs along its billows
With all my heart
and the bay, too, is always the most animated part of the city
Tell me, Clodius
hast thou ever been in love
Yes, very often
He who has loved often
has loved never. There is but one Eros, though there are many counterfeits of him
The counterfeits are not bad little gods, upon the whole
I agree with you
I adore even the shadow of Love; but I adore himself yet more
Art thou, then, soberly and honestly in love? Hast thou that feeling which the poets describe -- a feeling that makes us neglect our suppers, forswear the theatre, and write elegies? I should never have thought it. You dissemble well
I am not far gone enough for that
Shall I guess the object?-- Is it not Diomed's daughter? She adores you, and does not affect to conceal it; and, by Hercules, I say again and again, she is both handsome and rich. She will bind the door-posts of her husband with golden fillets
No, I do not desire to sell myself. Diomed's daughter is handsome, I grant: and at one time, had she not been the grandchild of a freedman, I might have... Yet no -- she carries all her beauty in her face; her manners are not maiden-like, and her mind knows no culture save that of pleasure
You are ungrateful. Tell me, then, who is the fortunate virgin
You shall hear, my Clodius. Several months ago I was sojourning at Neapolis, a city utterly to my own heart, for it still retains the manners and stamp of its Grecian origin -- and it yet merits the name of Parthenope, from its delicious air and its beautiful shores. One day I entered the temple of Minerva, to offer up my prayers, not for myself more than for the city on which Pallas smiles no longer. The temple was empty and deserted. The recollections of Athens crowded fast and meltingly upon me: imagining myself still alone in the temple, and absorbed in the earnestness of my devotion, my prayer gushed from my heart to my lips, and I wept as I prayed. I was startled in the midst of my devotions, however, by a deep sigh; I turned suddenly round, and just behind me was a female. She had raised her veil also in prayer: and when our eyes met, methought a celestial ray shot from those dark and smiling orbs at once into my soul. Never, my Clodius, have I seen mortal face more exquisitely molded: a certain melancholy softened and yet elevated its expression: that unutterable something, which springs from the soul, and which our sculptors have imparted to the aspect of Psyche, gave her beauty I know not what of divine and noble; tears were rolling down her eyes. I guessed at once that she was also of Athenian lineage; and that in my prayer for Athens her heart had responded to mine. I spoke to her, though with a faltering voice -- "Art thou not, too, Athenian?" said I, "O beautiful virgin!" At the sound of my voice she blushed, and half drew her veil across her face.-- "My forefathers' ashes," said she, "repose by the waters of Ilissus: my birth is of Neapolis; but my heart, as my lineage, is Athenian."--"Let us, then," said I, "make our offerings together": and, as the priest now appeared, we stood side by side, while we followed the priest in his ceremonial prayer; together we touched the knees of the goddess -- together we laid our olive garlands on the altar. I felt a strange emotion of almost sacred tenderness at this companionship. We, strangers from a far and fallen land, stood together and alone in that temple of our country's deity: was it not natural that my heart should yearn to my countrywoman, for so I might surely call her? I felt as if I had known her for years; and that simple rite seemed, as by a miracle, to operate on the sympathies and ties of time. Silently we left the temple, and I was about to ask her where she dwelt, and if I might be permitted to visit her, when a youth, in whose features there was some kindred resemblance to her own, and who stood upon the steps of the fane, took her by the hand. She turned round and bade me farewell. The crowd separated us: I saw her no more. On reaching my home I found letters, which obliged me to set out for Athens, for my relations threatened me with litigation concerning my inheritance. When that suit was happily over, I repaired once more to Neapolis; I instituted inquiries throughout the whole city, I could discover no clue of my lost countrywoman, and, hoping to lose in gaiety all remembrance of that beautiful apparition, I hastened to plunge myself amidst the luxuries of Pompeii. This is all my history. I do not love; but I remember and regret
The scene must, indeed, be beautiful
which draws the gay Clodius, and Glaucus the all admired, from the crowded thoroughfares of the city
Is Nature ordinarily so unattractive
To the dissipated -- yes
An austere reply, but scarcely a wise one. Pleasure delights in contrasts; it is from dissipation that we learn to enjoy solitude, and from solitude dissipation
So think the young philosophers of the Garden
they mistake lassitude for meditation, and imagine that, because they are sated with others, they know the delight of loneliness. But not in such jaded bosoms can Nature awaken that enthusiasm which alone draws from her chaste reserve all her unspeakable beauty: she demands from you, not the exhaustion of passion, but all that fervor, from which you only seek, in adoring her, a release. When, young Athenian, the moon revealed herself in visions of light to Endymion, it was after a day passed, not amongst the feverish haunts of men, but on the still mountains and in the solitary valleys of the hunter
Beautiful simile
most unjust application! Exhaustion! that word is for age, not youth. By me, at least, one moment of satiety has never been known
After all, you do right to enjoy the hour while it smiles for you; the rose soon withers, the perfume soon exhales. And we, O Glaucus! strangers in the land and far from our fathers' ashes, what is there left for us but pleasure or regret!-- for you the first, perhaps for me the last
Ah, speak not, Arbaces
speak not of our ancestors. Let us forget that there were ever other liberties than those of Rome! And Glory!-- oh, vainly would we call her ghost from the fields of Marathon and Thermopylae
Thy heart rebukes thee while thou speakest
and in thy gaieties this night, thou wilt be more mindful of Leoena than of Lais. Vale
I breathe more freely
Imitating the Egyptians, we sometimes introduce a skeleton at our feasts. In truth, the presence of such an Egyptian as yon gliding shadow were spectre enough to sour the richest grape of the Falernian
Strange man! said Glaucus, musingly; 'yet dead though he seem to pleasure, and cold to the objects of the world, scandal belies him, or his house and his heart could tell a different tale
Ah! there are whispers of other orgies than those of Osiris in his gloomy mansion. He is rich, too, they say. Can we not get him amongst us, and teach him the charms of dice? Pleasure of pleasures! hot fever of hope and fear! inexpressible unjaded passion! how fiercely beautiful thou art, O Gaming
Inspired -- inspired
the oracle speaks poetry in Clodius. What miracle next
a single man in Mayfair
Cave canem
Well, I must own
that your house, though scarcely larger than a case for one's fibulae, is a gem of its kind. How beautifully painted is that parting of Achilles and Briseis!-- what a style!-- what heads!-- what a-hem
Praise from Pansa is indeed valuable on such subjects
Why, the paintings on his walls!-- Ah! there is, indeed, the hand of a Zeuxis
You flatter me, my Clodius; indeed you do
You flatter me; but there is something pretty -- AEdepol, yes -- in the colors, to say nothing of the design -- and then for the kitchen, my friends -- ah! that was all my fancy
What is the design
I have not yet seen your kitchen, though I have often witnessed the excellence of its cheer
A cook, my Athenian -- a cook sacrificing the trophies of his skill on the altar of Vesta, with a beautiful muraena (taken from the life) on a spit at a distance -- there is some invention there
A splendid nappa that of yours
why, the fringe is as broad as a girdle
A trifle, my Clodius: a trifle! They tell me this stripe is the latest fashion at Rome; but Glaucus attends to these things more than I
Be propitious, O Bacchus
May this cup be my last
May this cup be my last, but it is the best wine I have drunk at Pompeii
Bring hither the amphora
and read its date and its character
How deliciously the snow has cooled it
It is just enough
It is like the experience of a man who has cooled his pleasures sufficiently to give them a double zest
It is like a woman's "No
it cools, but to inflame the more
When is our next wild-beast fight
It stands fixed for the ninth ide of August
on the day after the Vulcanalia -- we have a most lovely young lion for the occasion
Whom shall we get for him to eat
Alas! there is a great scarcity of criminals. You must positively find some innocent or other to condemn to the lion, Pansa
Indeed I have thought very seriously about it of late
It was a most infamous law that which forbade us to send our own slaves to the wild beasts. Not to let us do what we like with our own, that's what I call an infringement on property itself
Not so in the good old days of the Republic
And then this pretended mercy to the slaves is such a disappointment to the poor people. How they do love to see a good tough battle between a man and a lion; and all this innocent pleasure they may lose (if the gods don't send us a good criminal soon) from this cursed law
What can be worse policy
than to interfere with the manly amusements of the people
Well thank Jupiter and the Fates! we have no Nero at present
He was, indeed, a tyrant; he shut up our amphitheatre for ten years
I wonder it did not create a rebellion
It very nearly did
Ah, what delicacy hast thou in store for us now, my Glaucus
I know its face, by Pollux
It is an Ambracian Kid. Ho (snapping his fingers, a usual signal to the slaves) we must prepare a new libation in honour to the new-comer
I had hoped said Glaucus, in a melancholy tone, 'to have procured you some oysters from Britain; but the winds that were so cruel to Caesar have forbid us the oysters
Are they in truth so delicious
Why, in truth, I suspect it is the distance that gives the flavor; they want the richness of the Brundusium oyster. But, at Rome, no supper is complete without them
The poor Britons! There is some good in them after all
They produce an oyster
I wish they would produce us a gladiator
By Pallas
I love these wild spectacles well enough when beast fights beast; but when a man, one with bones and blood like ours, is coldly put on the arena, and torn limb from limb, the interest is too horrid: I sicken -- I gasp for breath -- I long to rush and defend him. The yells of the populace seem to me more dire than the voices of the Furies chasing Orestes. I rejoice that there is so little chance of that bloody exhibition for our next show
Hercle
AEdepol
AEdepol
Well, you Italians are used to these spectacles; we Greeks are more merciful. Ah, shade of Pindar!-- the rapture of a true Grecian game -- the emulation of man against man -- the generous strife -- the half-mournful triumph -- so proud to contend with a noble foe, so sad to see him overcome! But ye understand me not
The kid is excellent
Your cook is, of course, from Sicily
Yes, of Syracuse
I will play you for him
We will have a game between the courses
Better that sort of game, certainly, than a beast fight; but I cannot stake my Sicilian -- you have nothing so precious to stake me in return
My Phillida -- my beautiful dancing-girl
I never buy women
Ah, good old Horace
he sang well of feasts and girls, but not like our modern poets
The immortal Fulvius, for instance
Ah, Fulvius, the immortal
And Spuraena; and Caius Mutius, who wrote three epics in a year -- could Horace do that, or Virgil either said Lepidus. 'Those old poets all fell into the mistake of copying sculpture instead of painting. Simplicity and repose -- that was their notion; but we moderns have fire, and passion, and energy -- we never sleep, we imitate the colors of painting, its life, and its action. Immortal Fulvius
By the way
have you seen the new ode by Spuraena, in honour of our Egyptian Isis? It is magnificent -- the true religious fervor
Isis seems a favorite divinity at Pompeii
Yes
she is exceedingly in repute just at this moment; her statue has been uttering the most remarkable oracles. I am not superstitious, but I must confess that she has more than once assisted me materially in my magistracy with her advice. Her priests are so pious, too! none of your gay, none of your proud, ministers of Jupiter and Fortune: they walk barefoot, eat no meat, and pass the greater part of the night in solitary devotion
An example to our other priesthoods, indeed!-- Jupiter's temple wants reforming sadly
They say that Arbaces the Egyptian has imparted some most solemn mysteries to the priests of Isis
He boasts his descent from the race of Rameses, and declares that in his family the secrets of remotest antiquity are treasured
He certainly possesses the gift of the evil eye
If I ever come upon that Medusa front without the previous charm, I am sure to lose a favorite horse, or throw the canes nine times running
The last would be indeed a miracle
How mean you, Sallust
I mean, what you would leave me if I played often with you; and that is -- nothing
If Arbaces were not so rich
I should stretch my authority a little, and inquire into the truth of the report which calls him an astrologer and a sorcerer. Agrippa, when aedile of Rome, banished all such terrible citizens. But a rich man -- it is the duty of an aedile to protect the rich
What think you of this new sect, which I am told has even a few proselytes in Pompeii, these followers of the Hebrew God -- Christus
Oh, mere speculative visionaries
they have not a single gentleman amongst them; their proselytes are poor, insignificant, ignorant people
Who ought, however, to be crucified for their blasphemy
they deny Venus and Jove! Nazarene is but another name for atheist. Let me catch them -- that's all
Bene vobis! (Your health!) my Glaucus
Will you not be avenged on your ill-fortune of yesterday? See, the dice court us
As you will
The dice in summer, and I an aedile
it is against all law
Not in your presence, grave Pansa
your presence restrains all license: it is not the thing, but the excess of the thing, that hurts
What wisdom
Well, I will look another way
Not yet, good Pansa; let us wait till we have supped
He gapes to devour the gold
Ah! how well I know these polypi, who hold all they touch
Taste this Lesbian, my Pansa
it is excellent
It is not very old
but it has been made precocious, like ourselves, by being put to the fire:-- the wine to the flames of Vulcan -- we to those of his wife -- to whose honour I pour this cup
It is delicate
but there is perhaps the least particle too much of rosin in its flavor
What a beautiful cup
This ring
gives it a richer show, and renders it less unworthy of thy acceptance, my Clodius, on whom may the gods bestow health and fortune, long and oft to crown it to the brim
You are too generous, Glaucus
but your love gives it a double value
This cup to the Graces
We have appointed no director to the feast
Let us throw for him, then
Nay
no cold and trite director for us: no dictator of the banquet; no rex convivii. Have not the Romans sworn never to obey a king? Shall we be less free than your ancestors? Ho! musicians, let us have the song I composed the other night: it has a verse on this subject, "The Bacchic hymn of the Hours
Thoroughly Greek
the wildness, force, and energy of that tongue, it is impossible to imitate in the Roman poetry
It is, indeed, a great contrast
to the old-fashioned and tame simplicity of that ode of Horace which we heard before. The air is beautifully Ionic: the word puts me in mind of a toast -- Companions, I give you the beautiful Ione
Ione!-- the name is Greek
I drink the health with delight. But who is Ione
Ah! you have but just come to Pompeii, or you would deserve ostracism for your ignorance
not to know Ione, is not to know the chief charm of our city
She is of the most rare beauty
and what a voice
She can feed only on nightingales' tongues
Nightingales' tongues!-- beautiful thought
Enlighten me, I beseech you
Know then
Let me speak
you drawl out your words as if you spoke tortoises
And you speak stones
Know then, my Glaucus
that Ione is a stranger who has but lately come to Pompeii. She sings like Sappho, and her songs are her own composing; and as for the tibia, and the cithara, and the lyre, I know not in which she most outdoes the Muses. Her beauty is most dazzling. Her house is perfect; such taste -- such gems -- such bronzes! She is rich, and generous as she is rich
Her lovers, of course
take care that she does not starve; and money lightly won is always lavishly spent
Her lovers -- ah, there is the enigma!-- Ione has but one vice -- she is chaste. She has all Pompeii at her feet, and she has no lovers: she will not even marry
No lovers
No; she has the soul of Vestal with the girdle of Venus
What refined expressions
A miracle
Can we not see her
I will take you there this evening, said Clodius; 'meanwhile
I am yours
Pansa, turn your face
By Pollux
Now Venus befriend me
O Alma Venus -- it is Venus herself
Venus is ungrateful to me
I have always sacrificed on her altar
He who plays with Clodius
will soon, like Plautus's Curculio, put his pallium for the stakes
Poor Glaucus!-- he is as blind as Fortune herself
I will play no more
I have lost thirty sestertia
I am sorry
Amiable man
Not at all
the pleasure I take in your gain compensates the pain of my loss
Instead of outwatching the stars, let us visit one at whose beauty the stars grow pale
Did you say she was Athenian
No, she is from Neapolis
Neapolis
Gulls, dupes, fools, that ye are
whether business or pleasure, trade or religion, be your pursuit, you are equally cheated by the passions that ye should rule! How I could loathe you, if I did not hate -- yes, hate! Greek or Roman, it is from us, from the dark lore of Egypt, that ye have stolen the fire that gives you souls. Your knowledge -- your poesy -- your laws -- your arts -- your barbarous mastery of war (all how tame and mutilated, when compared with the vast original!)-- ye have filched, as a slave filches the fragments of the feast, from us! And now, ye mimics of a mimic!-- Romans, forsooth! the mushroom herd of robbers! ye are our masters! the pyramids look down no more on the race of Rameses -- the eagle cowers over the serpent of the Nile. Our masters -- no, not mine. My soul, by the power of its wisdom, controls and chains you, though the fetters are unseen. So long as craft can master force, so long as religion has a cave from which oracles can dupe mankind, the wise hold an empire over earth. Even from your vices Arbaces distills his pleasures -- pleasures unprofaned by vulgar eyes -- pleasures vast, wealthy, inexhaustible, of which your enervate minds, in their unimaginative sensuality, cannot conceive or dream! Plod on, plod on, fools of ambition and of avarice! your petty thirst for fasces and quaestorships, and all the mummery of servile power, provokes my laughter and my scorn. My power can extend wherever man believes. I ride over the souls that the purple veils. Thebes may fall, Egypt be a name; the world itself furnishes the subjects of Arbaces
And what
what occasion now assembles you before the altars of the venerable Isis? It seems, by the white robes of the group before me, that a sacrifice is to be rendered; and by the assembly of the priests, that ye are prepared for some oracle. To what question is it to vouchsafe a reply
We are merchants
That though Isis was properly the goddess of agriculture, she was no less the patron of commerce
Nothing can be more plain
there is to be a storm at sea, as there very often is at the beginning of autumn, but our vessels are to be saved. O beneficent Isis
Lauded eternally be the goddess
what can be less equivocal than her prediction
Calenus
you have improved the voice of the statue much by attending to my suggestion; and your verses are excellent. Always prophesy good fortune, unless there is an absolute impossibility of its fulfilment
Besides
if the storm does come, and if it does overwhelm the accursed ships, have we not prophesied it? and are the barks not blest to be at rest?-- for rest prays the mariner in the AEgean sea, or at least so says Horace -- can the mariner be more at rest in the sea than when he is at the bottom of it
Right, my Calenus; I wish Apaecides would take a lesson from your wisdom. But I desire to confer with you relative to him and to other matters: you can admit me into one of your less sacred apartments
Assuredly
Thou knowest
that it has ever been my maxim to attach myself to the young. From their flexile and unformed minds I can carve out my fittest tools. I weave -- I warp -- I mould them at my will. Of the men I make merely followers or servants; of the women
Mistresses
Yes, I do not disguise it: woman is the main object, the great appetite, of my soul. As you feed the victim for the slaughter, I love to rear the votaries of my pleasure. I love to train, to ripen their minds -- to unfold the sweet blossom of their hidden passions, in order to prepare the fruit to my taste. I loathe your ready-made and ripened courtesans; it is in the soft and unconscious progress of innocence to desire that I find the true charm of love; it is thus that I defy satiety; and by contemplating the freshness of others, I sustain the freshness of my own sensations. From the young hearts of my victims I draw the ingredients of the caldron in which I re-youth myself. But enough of this: to the subject before us. You know, then, that in Neapolis some time since I encountered Ione and Apaecides, brother and sister, the children of Athenians who had settled at Neapolis. The death of their parents, who knew and esteemed me, constituted me their guardian. I was not unmindful of the trust. The youth, docile and mild, yielded readily to the impression I sought to stamp upon him. Next to woman, I love the old recollections of my ancestral land; I love to keep alive -- to propagate on distant shores (which her colonies perchance yet people) her dark and mystic creeds. It may be, that it pleases me to delude mankind, while I thus serve the deities. To Apaecides I taught the solemn faith of Isis. I unfolded to him something of those sublime allegories which are couched beneath her worship. I excited in a soul peculiarly alive to religious fervor that enthusiasm which imagination begets on faith. I have placed him amongst you: he is one of you
He is so
but in thus stimulating his faith, you have robbed him of wisdom. He is horror-struck that he is no longer duped: our sage delusions, our speaking statues and secret staircases dismay and revolt him; he pines; he wastes away; he mutters to himself; he refuses to share our ceremonies. He has been known to frequent the company of men suspected of adherence to that new and atheistical creed which denies all our gods, and terms our oracles the inspirations of that malevolent spirit of which eastern tradition speaks. Our oracles -- alas! we know well whose inspirations they are
This is what I feared
from various reproaches he made me when I last saw him. Of late he hath shunned my steps. I must find him: I must continue my lessons: I must lead him into the adytum of Wisdom. I must teach him that there are two stages of sanctity -- the first, FAITH -- the next, DELUSION; the one for the vulgar, the second for the sage
nor you either, I think, my Arbaces
You err
I believe at this day (not indeed that which I teach, but that which I teach not). Nature has a sanctity against which I cannot (nor would I) steel conviction. I believe in mine own knowledge, and that has revealed to me -- but no matter. Now to earthlier and more inviting themes. If I thus fulfilled my object with Apaecides, what was my design for Ione? Thou knowest already I intend her for my queen -- my bride -- my heart's Isis. Never till I saw her knew I all the love of which my nature is capable
I hear from a thousand lips that she is a second Helen
Yes, she has a beauty that Greece itself never excelled
But that is not all: she has a soul worthy to match with mine. She has a genius beyond that of woman -- keen -- dazzling -- bold. Poetry flows spontaneous to her lips: utter but a truth, and, however intricate and profound, her mind seizes and commands it. Her imagination and her reason are not at war with each other; they harmonize and direct her course as the winds and the waves direct some lofty bark. With this she unites a daring independence of thought; she can stand alone in the world; she can be brave as she is gentle; this is the nature I have sought all my life in woman, and never found till now. Ione must be mine! In her I have a double passion; I wish to enjoy a beauty of spirit as of form
She is not yours yet, then
No; she loves me -- but as a friend -- she loves me with her mind only. She fancies in me the paltry virtues which I have only the profounder virtue to disdain. But you must pursue with me her history. The brother and sister were young and rich: Ione is proud and ambitious -- proud of her genius -- the magic of her poetry -- the charm of her conversation. When her brother left me, and entered your temple, in order to be near him she removed also to Pompeii. She has suffered her talents to be known. She summons crowds to her feasts; her voice enchants them; her poetry subdues. She delights in being thought the successor of Erinna
Or of Sappho
But Sappho without love! I encouraged her in this boldness of career -- in this indulgence of vanity and of pleasure. I loved to steep her amidst the dissipations and luxury of this abandoned city. Mark me, Calenus! I desired to enervate her mind!-- it has been too pure to receive yet the breath which I wish not to pass, but burningly to eat into, the mirror. I wished her to be surrounded by lovers, hollow, vain, and frivolous (lovers that her nature must despise), in order to feel the want of love. Then, in those soft intervals of lassitude that succeed to excitement -- I can weave my spells -- excite her interest -- attract her passions -- possess myself of her heart. For it is not the young, nor the beautiful, nor the gay, that should fascinate Ione; her imagination must be won, and the life of Arbaces has been one scene of triumph over the imaginations of his kind
And hast thou no fear, then, of thy rivals? The gallants of Italy are skilled in the art to please
None! Her Greek soul despises the barbarian Romans, and would scorn itself if it admitted a thought of love for one of that upstart race
But thou art an Egyptian, not a Greek
Egypt
is the mother of Athens. Her tutelary Minerva is our deity; and her founder, Cecrops, was the fugitive of Egyptian Sais. This have I already taught to her; and in my blood she venerates the eldest dynasties of earth. But yet I will own that of late some uneasy suspicions have crossed my mind. She is more silent than she used to be; she loves melancholy and subduing music; she sighs without an outward cause. This may be the beginning of love -- it may be the want of love. In either case it is time for me to begin my operations on her fancies and her heart: in the one case, to divert the source of love to me; in the other, in me to awaken it. It is for this that I have sought you
And how can I assist you
I am about to invite her to a feast in my house: I wish to dazzle -- to bewilder -- to inflame her senses. Our arts -- the arts by which Egypt trained her young novitiates -- must be employed; and, under veil of the mysteries of religion, I will open to her the secrets of love
Ah! now I understand:-- one of those voluptuous banquets that, despite our dull vows of mortified coldness, we, the priests of Isis, have shared at thy house
No, no! Thinkest thou her chaste eyes are ripe for such scenes? No; but first we must ensnare the brother -- an easier task. Listen to me, while I give you my instructions
I have seen her, then
I have heard her -- nay, I have spoken to her again -- I have listened to the music of her song, and she sung of glory and of Greece. I have discovered the long-sought idol of my dreams; and like the Cyprian sculptor, I have breathed life into my own imaginings
They tell me that Glaucus is here
may I come in
Ah, my Nydia
is that you I knew you would not neglect my invitation
Glaucus did but justice to himself
for he has always been kind to the poor blind girl
Who could be otherwise
You have but lately returned
This is the sixth sun that hath shone upon me at Pompeii
And you are well? Ah, I need not ask -- for who that sees the earth, which they tell me is so beautiful, can be ill
I am well. And you, Nydia -- how you have grown! Next year you will be thinking what answer to make your lovers
I have brought you some flowers
they are poor, but they are fresh-gathered
They might come from Flora herself
and I renew again my vow to the Graces, that I will wear no other garlands while thy hands can weave me such as these
And how find you the flowers in your viridarium?-- are they thriving
Wonderfully so -- the Lares themselves must have tended them
Ah, now you give me pleasure; for I came, as often as I could steal the leisure, to water and tend them in your absence
How shall I thank thee, fair Nydia
Glaucus little dreamed that he left one memory so watchful over his favorites at Pompeii
The sun is hot for the poor flowers
to-day and they will miss me; for I have been ill lately, and it is nine days since I visited them
Ill, Nydia!-- yet your cheek has more color than it had last year
I am often ailing
and as I grow up I grieve more that I am blind. But now to the flowers
Poor Nydia
thine is a hard doom! Thou seest not the earth -- nor the sun -- nor the ocean -- nor the stars -- above all, thou canst not behold Ione
You are early abroad
Yes; for the skies of Campania rebuke the sluggard who neglects them
Ah, would I could see them
Oh, I hope not -- I trust not
I will beg from sunrise to sunset, but send me not there
And why
Because -- because I am young, and delicately born, and the female companions I meet there are not fit associates for one who -- who
Is a slave in the house of Burbo
My poor brother
how once he would have enjoyed this hour
Your brother
I have not seen him. Occupied with you, I have thought of nothing else, or I should have asked if that was not your brother for whose companionship you left me at the Temple of Minerva, in Neapolis
It was
And is he here
He is. 'At Pompeii! and not constantly with you? Impossible
He has other duties
he is a priest of Isis
So young, too; and that priesthood, in its laws at least, so severe
What could have been his inducement
He was always enthusiastic and fervent in religious devotion: and the eloquence of an Egyptian -- our friend and guardian -- kindled in him the pious desire to consecrate his life to the most mystic of our deities. Perhaps in the intenseness of his zeal, he found in the severity of that peculiar priesthood its peculiar attraction
And he does not repent his choice?-- I trust he is happy
I wish
that he had not been so hasty. Perhaps, like all who expect too much, he is revolted too easily
Then he is not happy in his new condition. And this Egyptian, was he a priest himself? was he interested in recruits to the sacred band? 'No. His main interest was in our happiness. He thought he promoted that of my brother. We were left orphans
Like myself
And Arbaces sought to supply the place of our parent. You must know him. He loves genius
Arbaces! I know him already; at least, we speak when we meet. But for your praise I would not seek to know more of him. My heart inclines readily to most of my kind. But that dark Egyptian, with his gloomy brow and icy smiles, seems to me to sadden the very sun. One would think that, like Epimenides, the Cretan, he had spent forty years in a cave, and had found something unnatural in the daylight ever afterwards
Yet, like Epimenides, he is kind, and wise, and gentle
Oh, happy that he has thy praise! He needs no other virtues to make him dear to me
His calm, his coldness
are perhaps but the exhaustion of past sufferings; as yonder mountain (and she pointed to Vesuvius), which we see dark and tranquil in the distance, once nursed the fires for ever quenched
Apaecides
My son
what has chanced that you desire to shun me
Speak to me, my friend
Speak. Something burdens thy spirit. What hast thou to reveal
To thee -- nothing
And why is it to me thou art thus unconfidential
Because thou hast been my enemy
Let us confer
You say I have been your enemy
I know the cause of that unjust accusation: I have placed you amidst the priests of Isis -- you are revolted at their trickeries and imposture -- you think that I too have deceived you -- the purity of your mind is offended -- you imagine that I am one of the deceitful
You knew the jugglings of that impious craft
why did you disguise them from me?-- When you excited my desire to devote myself to the office whose garb I bear, you spoke to me of the holy life of men resigning themselves to knowledge -- you have given me for companions an ignorant and sensual herd, who have no knowledge but that of the grossest frauds; you spoke to me of men sacrificing the earthlier pleasures to the sublime cultivation of virtue -- you place me amongst men reeking with all the filthiness of vice; you spoke to me of the friends, the enlighteners of our common kind -- I see but their cheats and deluders! Oh! it was basely done!-- you have robbed me of the glory of youth, of the convictions of virtue, of the sanctifying thirst after wisdom. Young as I was, rich, fervent, the sunny pleasures of earth before me, I resigned all without a sign, nay, with happiness and exultation, in the thought that I resigned them for the abstruse mysteries of diviner wisdom, for the companionship of gods -- for the revelations of Heaven -- and now -- now
What I promised to thee, that will I give, my friend, my pupil: these have been but trials to thy virtue -- it comes forth the brighter for thy novitiate -- think no more of those dull cheats -- assort no more with those menials of the goddess, the atrienses of her hall -- you are worthy to enter into the penetralia. I henceforth will be your priest, your guide, and you who now curse my friendship shall live to bless it
Listen to me
From Egypt came all the knowledge of the world; from Egypt came the lore of Athens, and the profound policy of Crete; from Egypt came those early and mysterious tribes which (long before the hordes of Romulus swept over the plains of Italy, and in the eternal cycle of events drove back civilization into barbarism and darkness) possessed all the arts of wisdom and the graces of intellectual life. From Egypt came the rites and the grandeur of that solemn Caere, whose inhabitants taught their iron vanquishers of Rome all that they yet know of elevated in religion and sublime in worship. And how deemest thou, young man, that that Egypt, the mother of countless nations, achieved her greatness, and soared to her cloud-capt eminence of wisdom?-- It was the result of a profound and holy policy. Your modern nations owe their greatness to Egypt -- Egypt her greatness to her priests. Rapt in themselves, coveting a sway over the nobler part of man, his soul and his belief, those ancient ministers of God were inspired with the grandest thought that ever exalted mortals. From the revolutions of the stars, from the seasons of the earth, from the round and unvarying circle of human destinies, they devised an august allegory; they made it gross and palpable to the vulgar by the signs of gods and goddesses, and that which in reality was Government they named Religion. Isis is a fable -- start not!-- that for which Isis is a type is a reality, an immortal being; Isis is nothing. Nature, which she represents, is the mother of all things -- dark, ancient, inscrutable, save to the gifted few. "None among mortals hath ever lifted up my veil," so saith the Isis that you adore; but to the wise that veil hath been removed, and we have stood face to face with the solemn loveliness of Nature. The priests then were the benefactors, the civilizers of mankind; true, they were also cheats, impostors if you will. But think you, young man, that if they had not deceived their kind they could have served them? The ignorant and servile vulgar must be blinded to attain to their proper good; they would not believe a maxim -- they revere an oracle. The Emperor of Rome sways the vast and various tribes of earth, and harmonizes the conflicting and disunited elements; thence come peace, order, law, the blessings of life. Think you it is the man, the emperor, that thus sways?-- no, it is the pomp, the awe, the majesty that surround him -- these are his impostures, his delusions; our oracles and our divinations, our rites and our ceremonies, are the means of our sovereignty and the engines of our power. They are the same means to the same end, the welfare and harmony of mankind. You listen to me rapt and intent -- the light begins to dawn upon you
While, then
our fathers of the Nile thus achieved the first elements by whose life chaos is destroyed, namely, the obedience and reverence of the multitude for the few, they drew from their majestic and starred meditations that wisdom which was no delusion: they invented the codes and regularities of law -- the arts and glories of existence. They asked belief; they returned the gift by civilization. Were not their very cheats a virtue! Trust me, whosoever in yon far heavens of a diviner and more beneficent nature look down upon our world, smile approvingly on the wisdom which has worked such ends. But you wish me to apply these generalities to yourself; I hasten to obey the wish. The altars of the goddess of our ancient faith must be served, and served too by others than the stolid and soulless things that are but as pegs and hooks whereon to hang the fillet and the robe. Remember two sayings of Sextus the Pythagorean, sayings borrowed from the lore of Egypt. The first is, "Speak not of God to the multitude"; the second is, "The man worthy of God is a god among men." As Genius gave to the ministers of Egypt worship, that empire in late ages so fearfully decayed, thus by Genius only can the dominion be restored. I saw in you, Apaecides, a pupil worthy of my lessons -- a minister worthy of the great ends which may yet be wrought; your energy, your talents, your purity of faith, your earnestness of enthusiasm, all fitted you for that calling which demands so imperiously high and ardent qualities: I fanned, therefore, your sacred desires; I stimulated you to the step you have taken. But you blame me that I did not reveal to you the little souls and the juggling tricks of your companions. Had I done so, Apaecides, I had defeated my own object; your noble nature would have at once revolted, and Isis would have lost her priest
I placed you, therefore, without preparation, in the temple; I left you suddenly to discover and to be sickened by all those mummeries which dazzle the herd. I desired that you should perceive how those engines are moved by which the fountain that refreshes the world casts its waters in the air. It was the trial ordained of old to all our priests. They who accustom themselves to the impostures of the vulgar, are left to practise them -- for those like you, whose higher natures demand higher pursuit, religion opens more god-like secrets. I am pleased to find in you the character I had expected. You have taken the vows; you cannot recede. Advance -- I will be your guide
And what wilt thou teach me, O singular and fearful man? New cheats -- new
No -- I have thrown thee into the abyss of disbelief; I will lead thee now to the eminence of faith. Thou hast seen the false types: thou shalt learn now the realities they represent. There is no shadow, Apaecides, without its substance. Come to me this night. Your hand
And yet
it is only before we love that we imagine that our poets have truly described the passion; the instant the sun rises, all the stars that had shone in his absence vanish into air. The poets exist only in the night of the heart; they are nothing to us when we feel the full glory of the god
A gentle and most glowing image, noble Glaucus
You are a sudden guest
So ought all to be who know they are welcome
I am glad
to see you at length together; for you are suited to each other, and you are formed to be friends
Give me back some fifteen years of life
before you can place me on an equality with Glaucus. Happy should I be to receive his friendship; but what can I give him in return? Can I make to him the same confidences that he would repose in me -- of banquets and garlands -- of Parthian steeds, and the chances of the dice? these pleasures suit his age, his nature, his career: they are not for mine
You are right, wise Arbaces
we can esteem each other, but we cannot be friends. My banquets lack the secret salt which, according to rumor, gives such zest to your own. And, by Hercules! when I have reached your age, if I, like you, may think it wise to pursue the pleasures of manhood, like you, I shall be doubtless sarcastic on the gallantries of youth
I do not understand you
but it is the custom to consider that wit lies in obscurity
I have not, beautiful Ione
been fortunate enough to find you within doors the last two or three times that I have visited your vestibule
The smoothness of the sea has tempted me much from home
You know the old poet says, that "Women should keep within doors, and there converse
The poet was a cynic
and hated women
He spoke according to the customs of his country, and that country is your boasted Greece
To different periods different customs. Had our forefathers known Ione, they had made a different law
Did you learn these pretty gallantries at Rome
One certainly would not go for gallantries to Egypt
Come, come
Arbaces must not be so hard upon his poor pupil. An orphan, and without a mother's care, I may be to blame for the independent and almost masculine liberty of life that I have chosen: yet it is not greater than the Roman women are accustomed to -- it is not greater than the Grecian ought to be. Alas! is it only to be among men that freedom and virtue are to be deemed united? Why should the slavery that destroys you be considered the only method to preserve us? Ah! believe me, it has been the great error of men -- and one that has worked bitterly on their destinies -- to imagine that the nature of women is (I will not say inferior, that may be so, but) so different from their own, in making laws unfavorable to the intellectual advancement of women. Have they not, in so doing, made laws against their children, whom women are to rear?-- against the husbands, of whom women are to be the friends, nay, sometimes the advisers
Ever mayst thou think thus, Ione -- ever be your pure heart your unerring guide! Happy it had been for Greece if she had given to the chaste the same intellectual charms that are so celebrated amongst the less worthy of her women. No state falls from freedom -- from knowledge, while your sex smile only on the free, and by appreciating, encourage the wise
Think not, my sweet pupil, if so I may call you, that I wish to shackle that liberty you adorn while you assume: but which, if not greater, as you rightly observe, than that possessed by the Roman women, must at least be accompanied by great circumspection, when arrogated by one unmarried. Continue to draw crowds of the gay, the brilliant, the wise themselves, to your feet -- continue to charm them with the conversation of an Aspasia, the music of an Erinna -- but reflect, at least, on those censorious tongues which can so easily blight the tender reputation of a maiden; and while you provoke admiration, give, I beseech you, no victory to envy
What mean you, Arbaces
I know you are my friend, that you desire only my honour and my welfare. What is it you would say
Your friend -- ah, how sincerely! May I speak then as a friend, without reserve and without offence
I beseech you do so
This young profligate, this Glaucus, how didst thou know him? Hast thou seen him often
He was brought to my house as a countryman of my father's, and I may say of mine. I have known him only within this last week or so: but why these questions
Forgive me
I thought you might have known him longer. Base insinuator that he is
How! what mean you? Why that term
It matters not: let me not rouse your indignation against one who does not deserve so grave an honour
I implore you speak. What has Glaucus insinuated? or rather, in what do you suppose he has offended
You know his pursuits, his companions his habits; the comissatio and the alea (the revel and the dice) make his occupation; and amongst the associates of vice how can he dream of virtue
Still you speak riddles. By the gods! I entreat you, say the worst at once
Well, then, it must be so. Know, my Ione, that it was but yesterday that Glaucus boasted openly -- yes, in the public baths -- of your love to him. He said it amused him to take advantage of it. Nay, I will do him justice, he praised your beauty. Who could deny it? But he laughed scornfully when his Clodius, or his Lepidus, asked him if he loved you enough for marriage, and when he purposed to adorn his door-posts with flowers
Impossible! How heard you this base slander
Nay, would you have me relate to you all the comments of the insolent coxcombs with which the story has circled through the town? Be assured that I myself disbelieved at first, and that I have now painfully been convinced by several ear-witnesses of the truth of what I have reluctantly told thee
I own it vexed -- it irritated me, to hear your name thus lightly pitched from lip to lip, like some mere dancing-girl's fame. I hastened this morning to seek and to warn you. I found Glaucus here. I was stung from my self-possession. I could not conceal my feelings; nay, I was uncourteous in thy presence. Canst thou forgive thy friend, Ione
Think no more of this
but let it be a warning voice, to tell thee how much prudence thy lot requires. It cannot hurt thee, Ione, for a moment; for a gay thing like this could never have been honored by even a serious thought from Ione. These insults only wound when they come from one we love; far different indeed is he whom the lofty Ione shall stoop to love
Love
Ay, indeed
Ah
it is a lustrum since I saw you
And how have you spent the lustrum? What new dishes have you discovered
I have been scientific
and have made some experiments in the feeding of lampreys: I confess I despair of bringing them to the perfection which our Roman ancestors attained
Miserable man! and why
Because
it is no longer lawful to give them a slave to eat. I am very often tempted to make away with a very fat carptor (butler) whom I possess, and pop him slily into the reservoir. He would give the fish a most oleaginous flavor! But slaves are not slaves nowadays, and have no sympathy with their masters' interest -- or Davus would destroy himself to oblige me
What news from Rome
The emperor has been giving a splendid supper to the senators
He is a good creature
they say he never sends a man away without granting his request
Perhaps he would let me kill a slave for my reservoir
Not unlikely
for he who grants a favor to one Roman, must always do it at the expense of another. Be sure, that for every smile Titus has caused, a hundred eyes have wept
Long live Titus
he has promised my brother a quaestorship, because he had run through his fortune
And wishes now to enrich himself among the people, my Pansa
Exactly so
That is putting the people to some use
Poor Pansa
he never has time for pleasure. Thank Heaven I am not an aedile
Ah, Glaucus! how are you? gay as ever
Are you come to sacrifice to Fortune
I sacrifice to her every night
I do not doubt it. No man has made more victims
By Hercules, a biting speech
The dog's letter is never out of your mouth, Sallust
you are always snarling
I may well have the dog's letter in my mouth, since, whenever I play with you, I have the dog's throw in my hand
Hist
The rose is the token of silence
but I love only to see it at the supper-table
Talking of that, Diomed gives a grand feast next week
are you invited, Glaucus
Yes, I received an invitation this morning
And I, too
I see that he asks us an hour earlier than usual: an earnest of something sumptuous
Oh! he is rich as Croesus
and his bill of fare is as long as an epic
Well, let us to the baths
this is the time when all the world is there; and Fulvius, whom you admire so much, is going to read us his last ode
For my part
I think the emperor, if he is as good as they say, might have sent us a Jew
Why not take one of the new sect of Nazarenes
I am not cruel: but an atheist, one who denies Jupiter himself, deserves no mercy
I care not how many gods a man likes to believe in
but to deny all gods is something monstrous
Yet I fancy
that these people are not absolutely atheists. I am told that they believe in a God -- nay, in a future state
Quite a mistake, my dear Glaucus
I have conferred with them -- they laughed in my face when I talked of Pluto and Hades
O ye gods
are there any of these wretches in Pompeii
I know there are a few: but they meet so privately that it is impossible to discover who they are
Ah
if we could get him on the arena -- there would be a model for you! What limbs! what a head! he ought to have been a gladiator! A subject -- a subject -- worthy of our art! Why don't they give him to the lion
Oh, my Athenian, my Glaucus, you have come to hear my ode! That is indeed an honour; you, a Greek -- to whom the very language of common life is poetry. How I thank you. It is but a trifle; but if I secure your approbation, perhaps I may get an introduction to Titus. Oh, Glaucus! a poet without a patron is an amphora without a label; the wine may be good, but nobody will laud it! And what says Pythagoras?-- "Frankincense to the gods, but praise to man." A patron, then, is the poet's priest: he procures him the incense, and obtains him his believers
But all Pompeii is your patron, and every portico an altar in your praise
Ah! the poor Pompeians are very civil -- they love to honour merit. But they are only the inhabitants of a petty town -- spero meliora! Shall we within
Certainly; we lose time till we hear your poem
A poor place this, compared with the Roman thermae
Yet is there some taste in the ceiling
Blessed be he who invented baths
Whether he were Hercules or Bacchus, he deserved deification
But tell me
tell me, O Glaucus!-- evil chance to thy hands, O slave! why so rough?-- tell me -- ugh -- ugh!-- are the baths at Rome really so magnificent
I fancy they must be a great deal finer than these. Eh
Imagine all Pompeii converted into baths, and you will then form a notion of the size of the imperial thermae of Rome. But a notion of the size only. Imagine every entertainment for mind and body -- enumerate all the gymnastic games our fathers invented -- repeat all the books Italy and Greece have produced -- suppose places for all these games, admirers for all these works -- add to this, baths of the vastest size, the most complicated construction -- intersperse the whole with gardens, with theatres, with porticoes, with schools -- suppose, in one word, a city of the gods, composed but of palaces and public edifices, and you may form some faint idea of the glories of the great baths of Rome
By Hercules
why, it would take a man's whole life to bathe
At Rome, it often does so
There are many who live only at the baths. They repair there the first hour in which the doors are opened, and remain till that in which the doors are closed. They seem as if they knew nothing of the rest of Rome, as if they despised all other existence
By Pollux! you amaze me
Even those who bathe only thrice a day contrive to consume their lives in this occupation. They take their exercise in the tennis-court or the porticoes, to prepare them for the first bath; they lounge into the theatre, to refresh themselves after it. They take their prandium under the trees, and think over their second bath. By the time it is prepared, the prandium is digested. From the second bath they stroll into one of the peristyles, to hear some new poet recite: or into the library, to sleep over an old one. Then comes the supper, which they still consider but a part of the bath: and then a third time they bathe again, as the best place to converse with their friends
Per Hercle! but we have their imitators at Pompeii
Yes, and without their excuse. The magnificent voluptuaries of the Roman baths are happy: they see nothing but gorgeousness and splendor; they visit not the squalid parts of the city; they know not that there is poverty in the world. All Nature smiles for them, and her only frown is the last one which sends them to bathe in Cocytus. Believe me, they are your only true philosophers
It is supper time
you, Glaucus and Lepidus, come and sup with me
Recollect you are all three engaged to my house next week
Ah, ah! we recollect
the seat of memory, my Diomed, is certainly in the stomach
Apaecides
Well, Nazarene
what wouldst thou
Nay
I would not interrupt thy meditations; but the last time we met, I seemed not to be so unwelcome
You are not unwelcome, Olinthus; but I am sad and weary: nor am I able this evening to discuss with you those themes which are most acceptable to you
O backward of heart
O earth
from what regions shall my eyes open to the true Olympus, where thy gods really dwell? Am I to believe with this man, that none whom for so many centuries my fathers worshipped have a being or a name? Am I to break down, as something blasphemous and profane, the very altars which I have deemed most sacred? or am I to think with Arbaces -- what
I do not wonder, Apaecides, that I distress you; that I shake all the elements of your mind: that you are lost in doubt; that you drift here and there in the vast ocean of uncertain and benighted thought. I wonder not at this, but bear with me a little; watch and pray -- the darkness shall vanish, the storm sleep, and God Himself, as He came of yore on the seas of Samaria, shall walk over the lulled billows, to the delivery of your soul. Ours is a religion jealous in its demands, but how infinitely prodigal in its gifts! It troubles you for an hour, it repays you by immortality
Such promises
are the tricks by which man is ever gulled. Oh, glorious were the promises which led me to the shrine of Isis
But
ask thy reason, can that religion be sound which outrages all morality? You are told to worship your gods. What are those gods, even according to yourselves? What their actions, what their attributes? Are they not all represented to you as the blackest of criminals? yet you are asked to serve them as the holiest of divinities. Jupiter himself is a parricide and an adulterer. What are the meaner deities but imitators of his vices? You are told not to murder, but you worship murderers; you are told not to commit adultery, and you make your prayers to an adulterer! Oh! what is this but a mockery of the holiest part of man's nature, which is faith? Turn now to the God, the one, the true God, to whose shrine I would lead you. If He seem to you too sublime, two shadowy, for those human associations, those touching connections between Creator and creature, to which the weak heart clings -- contemplate Him in His Son, who put on mortality like ourselves. His mortality is not indeed declared, like that of your fabled gods, by the vices of our nature, but by the practice of all its virtues. In Him are united the austerest morals with the tenderest affections. If He were but a mere man, He had been worthy to become a god. You honour Socrates -- he has his sect, his disciples, his schools. But what are the doubtful virtues of the Athenian, to the bright, the undisputed, the active, the unceasing, the devoted holiness of Christ? I speak to you now only of His human character. He came in that as the pattern of future ages, to show us the form of virtue which Plato thirsted to see embodied. This was the true sacrifice that He made for man; but the halo that encircled His dying hour not only brightened earth, but opened to us the sight of heaven! You are touched -- you are moved. God works in your heart. His Spirit is with you. Come, resist not the holy impulse; come at once -- unhesitatingly. A few of us are now assembled to expound the word of God. Come, let me guide you to them. You are sad, you are weary. Listen, then, to the words of God: "Come to me", saith He, "all ye that are heavy laden, and I will give you rest
I cannot now
another time
Now -- now
I seek Arbaces
Seat yourself, Apaecides
You ask me
You ask me, or would do so, the mightiest secrets which the soul of man is fitted to receive; it is the enigma of life itself that you desire me to solve. Placed like children in the dark, and but for a little while, in this dim and confined existence, we shape our spectres in the obscurity; our thoughts now sink back into ourselves in terror, now wildly plunge themselves into the guideless gloom, guessing what it may contain; stretching our helpless hands here and there, lest, blindly, we stumble upon some hidden danger; not knowing the limits of our boundary, now feeling them suffocate us with compression, now seeing them extend far away till they vanish into eternity. In this state all wisdom consists necessarily in the solution of two questions: "What are we to believe? and What are we to reject?" These questions you desire me to decide
Man must have some belief
He must fasten his hope to something: is our common nature that you inherit when, aghast and terrified to see that in which you have been taught to place your faith swept away, you float over a dreary and shoreless sea of incertitude, you cry for help, you ask for some plank to cling to, some land, however dim and distant, to attain. Well, then, have not forgotten our conversation of to-day
Forgotten
I confessed to you that those deities for whom smoke so many altars were but inventions. I confessed to you that our rites and ceremonies were but mummeries, to delude and lure the herd to their proper good. I explained to you that from those delusions came the bonds of society, the harmony of the world, the power of the wise; that power is in the obedience of the vulgar. Continue we then these salutary delusions -- if man must have some belief, continue to him that which his fathers have made dear to him, and which custom sanctifies and strengthens. In seeking a subtler faith for us, whose senses are too spiritual for the gross one, let us leave others that support which crumbles from ourselves. This is wise -- it is benevolent
Proceed
This being settled
the old landmarks being left uninjured for those whom we are about to desert, we gird up our loins and depart to new climes of faith. Dismiss at once from your recollection, from your thought, all that you have believed before. Suppose the mind a blank, an unwritten scroll, fit to receive impressions for the first time. Look round the world -- observe its order -- its regularity -- its design. Something must have created it -- the design speaks a designer: in that certainty we first touch land. But what is that something?-- A god, you cry. Stay -- no confused and confusing names. Of that which created the world, we know, we can know, nothing, save these attributes -- power and unvarying regularity -- stern, crushing, relentless regularity -- heeding no individual cases -- rolling -- sweeping -- burning on; no matter what scattered hearts, severed from the general mass, fall ground and scorched beneath its wheels. The mixture of evil with good -- the existence of suffering and of crime -- in all times have perplexed the wise. They created a god -- they supposed him benevolent. How then came this evil? why did he permit it -- nay, why invent, why perpetuate it? To account for this, the Persian creates a second spirit, whose nature is evil, and supposes a continual war between that and the god of good. In our own shadowy and tremendous Typhon, the Egyptians image a similar demon. Perplexing blunder that yet more bewilders us!-- folly that arose from the vain delusion that makes a palpable, a corporeal, a human being, of this unknown power -- that clothes the Invisible with attributes and a nature similar to the Seen. No: to this designer let us give a name that does not command our bewildering associations, and the mystery becomes more clear -- that name is NECESSITY. Necessity, say the Greeks, compels the gods. Then why the gods?-- their agency becomes unnecessary -- dismiss them at once. Necessity is the ruler of all we see -- power, regularity -- these two qualities make its nature. Would you ask more?-- you can learn nothing: whether it be eternal -- whether it compel us, its creatures, to new careers after that darkness which we call death -- we cannot tell. There leave we this ancient, unseen, unfathomable power, and come to that which, to our eyes, is the great minister of its functions. This we can task more, from this we can learn more: its evidence is around us -- its name is NATURE. The error of the sages has been to direct their researches to the attributes of necessity, where all is gloom and blindness. Had they confined their researches to Nature -- what of knowledge might we not already have achieved? Here patience, examination, are never directed in vain. We see what we explore; our minds ascend a palpable ladder of causes and effects. Nature is the great agent of the external universe, and Necessity imposes upon it the laws by which it acts, and imparts to us the powers by which we examine; those powers are curiosity and memory -- their union is reason, their perfection is wisdom. Well, then, I examine by the help of these powers this inexhaustible Nature. I examine the earth, the air, the ocean, the heaven: I find that all have a mystic sympathy with each other -- that the moon sways the tides -- that the air maintains the earth, and is the medium of the life and sense of things -- that by the knowledge of the stars we measure the limits of the earth -- that we portion out the epochs of time -- that by their pale light we are guided into the abyss of the past -- that in their solemn lore we discern the destinies of the future. And thus, while we know not that which Necessity is, we learn, at least, her decrees. And now, what morality do we glean from this religion?-- for religion it is. I believe in two deities -- Nature and Necessity; I worship the last by reverence, the first by investigation. What is the morality my religion teaches? This -- all things are subject but to general rules; the sun shines for the joy of the many -- it may bring sorrow to the few; the night sheds sleep on the multitude -- but it harbors murder as well as rest; the forests adorn the earth -- but shelter the serpent and the lion; the ocean supports a thousand barks -- but it engulfs the one. It is only thus for the general, and not for the universal benefit, that Nature acts, and Necessity speeds on her awful course. This is the morality of the dread agents of the world -- it is mine, who am their creature. I would preserve the delusions of priestcraft, for they are serviceable to the multitude; I would impart to man the arts I discover, the sciences I perfect; I would speed the vast career of civilizing lore: in this I serve the mass, I fulfill the general law, I execute the great moral that Nature preaches. For myself I claim the individual exception; I claim it for the wise -- satisfied that my individual actions are nothing in the great balance of good and evil; satisfied that the product of my knowledge can give greater blessings to the mass than my desires can operate evil on the few (for the first can extend to remotest regions and humanize nations yet unborn), I give to the world wisdom, to myself freedom. I enlighten the lives of others, and I enjoy my own. Yes; our wisdom is eternal, but our life is short: make the most of it while it lasts. Surrender thy youth to pleasure, and thy senses to delight. Soon comes the hour when the wine-cup is shattered, and the garlands shall cease to bloom. Enjoy while you may. Be still, O Apaecides, my pupil and my follower! I will teach thee the mechanism of Nature, her darkest and her wildest secrets -- the lore which fools call magic -- and the mighty mysteries of the stars. By this shalt thou discharge thy duty to the mass; by this shalt thou enlighten thy race. But I will lead thee also to pleasures of which the vulgar do not dream; and the day which thou givest to men shall be followed by the sweet night which thou surrenderest to thyself
All teaches love
LOVE
Oh! what miracle is this, Arbaces
After having denied the gods, art thou about to reveal to me
Their pleasures
Drink, feast, love, my pupil
blush not that thou art passionate and young. That which thou art, thou feelest in thy veins: that which thou shalt be, survey
Start not
that friendly guest admonishes us but of the shortness of life. From its jaws I hear a voice that summons us to ENJOY
By Pollux
the wine thou sellest us, old
is enough to thin the best blood in one's veins
None of thy scurrilous blusterings with me
my wine is good enough for a carcass which shall so soon soak the dust of the spoliarium
Croakest thou thus, old raven
thou shalt live to hang thyself with despite when thou seest me win the palm crown; and when I get the purse at the amphitheatre, as I certainly shall, my first vow to Hercules shall be to forswear thee and thy vile potations evermore
Hear to him -- hear to this modest Pyrgopolinices! He has certainly served under Bombochides Cluninstaridysarchides
Sporus, Niger, Tetraides, he declares he shall win the purse from you. Why, by the gods! each of your muscles is strong enough to stifle all his body, or I know nothing of the arena
Ha
our lanista would tell a different story
What story could he tell against me, vain Lydon
Or me, who have conquered in fifteen fights
Or me
Tush
The time of trial will soon come; keep your valor till then
Ay, do
and if I press down my thumb to save you, may the Fates cut my thread
Your rope, you mean
here is a sesterce to buy one
I will teach thee, young braggart, to play the Macedonian with me! I am no puny Persian, I warrant thee! What, man! have I not fought twenty years in the ring, and never lowered my arms once? And have I not received the rod from the editor's own hand as a sign of victory, and as a grace to retirement on my laurels? And am I now to be lectured by a boy
Habet! (he has got it!) habet
Non habeo, ye liars; I have not got it
Fair play
O gods
the ruffian!-- he has concealed weapons! Is that fair? Is that like a gentleman and a gladiator? No, indeed, I scorn such fellows
By Castor
thou art a stronger fellow than I took thee for! I see thou art a man of merit and virtue; give me thy hand, my hero
Jolly old Burbo
staunch to the backbone. Give him thy hand, Lydon
Oh, to be sure
but now I have tasted his blood, I long to lap the whole
By Hercules
that is the true gladiator feeling. Pollux! to think what good training may make a man; why, a beast could not be fiercer
A beast! O dullard! we beat the beasts hollow
if ye are all good friends again, I recommend you to be quiet and orderly; for some young noblemen, your patrons and backers, have sent to say they will come here to pay you a visit: they wish to see you more at their ease than at the schools, before they make up their bets on the great fight at the amphitheatre. So they always come to my house for that purpose: they know we only receive the best gladiators in Pompeii -- our society is very select -- praised be the gods
Yes
a man who has won my laurels can only encourage the brave. Lydon, drink, my boy; may you have an honorable old age like mine
Come here
Come here
Not so hard, she-wolf! thou art worse than the gladiator
Hist
Calenus has just stole in, disguised, by the back way. I hope he has brought the sesterces
Ho! ho! I will join him, said Burbo; 'meanwhile, I say, keep a sharp eye on the cups -- attend to the score. Let them not cheat thee, wife; they are heroes, to be sure, but then they are arrant rogues: Cacus was nothing to them
Never fear me, fool
So those soft patrons are coming to look at our muscles
Who sent to previse thee of it, my mistress
Lepidus. He brings with him Clodius, the surest better in Pompeii, and the young Greek, Glaucus
A wager on a wager
Clodius bets on me, for twenty sesterces! What say you, Lydon
He bets on me
No, on me
Dolts! do you think he would prefer any of you to Niger
Well, well
great men and brave, as ye all think yourselves, which of you will fight the Numidian lion in case no malefactor should be found to deprive you of the option
I who have escaped your arms, stout Stratonice
might safely, I think, encounter the lion
But tell me
where is that pretty young slave of yours -- the blind girl, with bright eyes? I have not seen her a long time
Oh! she is too delicate for you, my son of Neptune
and too nice even for us, I think. We send her into the town to sell flowers and sing to the ladies: she makes us more money so than she would by waiting on you. Besides, she has often other employments which lie under the rose
Other employments
why, she is too young for them
Silence, beast
you think there is no play but the Corinthian. If Nydia were twice the age she is at present, she would be equally fit for Vesta -- poor girl
But, hark ye, Stratonice
how didst thou come by so gentle and delicate a slave? She were more meet for the handmaid of some rich matron of Rome than for thee
That is true
and some day or other I shall make my fortune by selling her. How came I by Nydia, thou askest
Ay
Why, thou seest, my slave Staphyla -- thou rememberest Staphyla, Niger
Ay, a large-handed wench, with a face like a comic mask. How should I forget her, by Pluto, whose handmaid she doubtless is at this moment
Tush, brute!-- Well, Staphyla died one day, and a great loss she was to me, and I went into the market to buy me another slave. But, by the gods! they were all grown so dear since I had bought poor Staphyla, and money was so scarce, that I was about to leave the place in despair, when a merchant plucked me by the robe. "Mistress," said he, "dost thou want a slave cheap I have a child to sell -- a bargain. She is but little, and almost an infant, it is true; but she is quick and quiet, docile and clever, sings well, and is of good blood, I assure you." "Of what country?" said I. "Thessalian." Now I knew the Thessalians were acute and gentle; so I said I would see the girl. I found her just as you see her now, scarcely smaller and scarcely younger in appearance. She looked patient and resigned enough, with her hands crossed on her bosom, and her eyes downcast. I asked the merchant his price: it was moderate, and I bought her at once. The merchant brought her to my house, and disappeared in an instant. Well, my friends, guess my astonishment when I found she was blind! Ha! ha! a clever fellow that merchant! I ran at once to the magistrates, but the rogue was already gone from Pompeii. So I was forced to go home in a very ill humor, I assure you; and the poor girl felt the effects of it too. But it was not her fault that she was blind, for she had been so from her birth. By degrees, we got reconciled to our purchase. True, she had not the strength of Staphyla, and was of very little use in the house, but she could soon find her way about the town, as well as if she had the eyes of Argus; and when one morning she brought us home a handful of sesterces, which she said she had got from selling some flowers she had gathered in our poor little garden, we thought the gods had sent her to us. So from that time we let her go out as she likes, filling her basket with flowers, which she wreathes into garlands after the Thessalian fashion, which pleases the gallants; and the great people seem to take a fancy to her, for they always pay her more than they do any other flower-girl, and she brings all of it home to us, which is more than any other slave would do. So I work for myself, but I shall soon afford from her earnings to buy me a second Staphyla; doubtless, the Thessalian kidnapper had stolen the blind girl from gentle parents. Besides her skill in the garlands, she sings and plays on the cithara, which also brings money, and lately -- but that is a secret
That is a secret! What
art thou turned sphinx
Sphinx, no!-- why sphinx
Cease thy gabble, good mistress, and bring us our meat -- I am hungry
And I, too
You see
I do, my cousin, I do
And by Isis, Pisis, and Nisis, or whatever other gods there may be in Egypt, my little Nydia is a very Hesperides -- a garden of gold to me
She sings well, and plays like a muse
those are virtues that he who employs me always pays liberally
He is a god
every rich man who is generous deserves to be worshipped. But come, a cup of wine, old friend: tell me more about it. What does she do? she is frightened, talks of her oath, and reveals nothing
Nor will I, by my right hand! I, too, have taken that terrible oath of secrecy
Oath! what are oaths to men like us
True oaths of a common fashion; but this
Yet
I own to thee, that it is not so much the oath that I dread as the vengeance of him who proposed it. By the gods! he is a mighty sorcerer, and could draw my confession from the moon, did I dare to make it to her. Talk no more of this. By Pollux! wild as those banquets are which I enjoy with him, I am never quite at my ease there. I love, my boy, one jolly hour with thee, and one of the plain, unsophisticated, laughing girls that I meet in this chamber, all smoke-dried though it be, better than whole nights of those magnificent debauches
Ho! sayest thou so! To-morrow night, please the gods, we will have then a snug carousal
With all my heart
Tush
it is but the blind girl
Ho! girl, and how durst thou? thou lookest pale -- thou hast kept late revels? No matter, the young must be always the young
Master, you may starve me if you will -- you may beat me -- you may threaten me with death -- but I will go no more to that unholy place
How, fool
how, rebellious! Take care
I have said it
What! my modest one, sweet vestal, thou wilt go no more! Very well, thou shalt be carried
I will raise the city with my cries
We will take care of that too; thou shalt go gagged
Then may the gods help me
I will appeal to the magistrates
Thine oath remember
Wretch that I am
How now? what hast thou been doing with my slave, brute
Be quiet, wife
you want new girdles and fine clothes, do you? Well then, take care of your slave, or you may want them long. Voe capiti tuo -- vengeance on thy head, wretched one
What is this
O my mistress
you are a woman -- you have had sisters -- you have been young like me, feel for me -- save me! I will go to those horrible feasts no more
Stuff
stuff! these fine scruples are not for slaves
Hark ye
you hear this music, wife; by Pollux! if you do not break in yon colt with a tight rein, you will hear it no more
The girl is tired
she will be more docile when you next want her
You! you! who is here
She must see with those eyes
Who is here! Speak, in heaven's name! Ah, if you were blind like me, you would be less cruel
Take her away
I hate these whimperings
Come
Hear me
I have served you faithfully -- I who was brought up -- Ah! my mother, my poor mother! didst thou dream I should come to this
Command me in aught else, and I will obey; but I tell you now, hard, stern, inexorable as you are -- I tell you that I will go there no more; or, if I am forced there, that I will implore the mercy of the praetor himself -- I have said it. Hear me, ye gods, I swear
HOLLA, my brave fellows
We have come to see which of you most honors your lanista
What fine animals
worthy to be gladiators
It is a pity they are not warriors
Ha! Niger, how will you fight
and with whom
Sporus challenges me
we shall fight to the death, I hope
Ah! to be sure
He takes the sword, I the net and the trident: it will be rare sport. I hope the survivor will have enough to keep up the dignity of the crown
Never fear, we'll fill the purse, my Hector
let me see -- you fight against Niger? Glaucus, a bet -- I back Niger
I told you so
The noble Clodius knows me; count yourself dead already, my Sporus
A bet -- ten sestertia. What say you
So be it
It is Lydon, a youngster, practised only with the wooden sword as yet
But he has the true blood in him, and has challenged Tetraides
He challenged me
I accept the offer
And how do you fight
Chut, my boy, wait a while before you contend with Tetraides
Is he a citizen or a slave
A citizen -- we are all citizens here
Stretch out your arm, my Lydon
Well, man, what is your weapon
We are to fight first with the cestus; afterwards, if both survive, with swords
With the cestus
there you are wrong, Lydon; the cestus is the Greek fashion: I know it well. You should have encouraged flesh for that contest: you are far too thin for it -- avoid the cestus
I cannot
And why
I have said -- because he has challenged me
But he will not hold you to the precise weapon
My honour holds me
I bet on Tetraides, two to one, at the cestus
If you give me three to one, I will not take the odds, said Lepidus: 'Lydon will never come to the swords. You are mighty courteous
What say you, Glaucus
I will take the odds three to one
Ten sestertia to thirty
Yes
Pardon me, noble sponsor mine
but how much think you the victor will gain
How much? why, perhaps seven sestertia
You are sure it will be as much
At least. But out on you!-- a Greek would have thought of the honour, and not the money. O Italians! everywhere ye are Italians
Do not wrong me, noble Glaucus; I think of both, but I should never have been a gladiator but for the money
Base! mayest thou fall! A miser never was a hero
I am not a miser
But I don't see Burbo; where is Burbo? I must talk with Burbo
He is within
And Stratonice, the brave old lass, where is she
Why, she was here just before you entered; but she heard something that displeased her yonder, and vanished. Pollux! old Burbo had perhaps caught hold of some girl in the back room. I heard a female's voice crying out; the old dame is as jealous as Juno
Ho! excellent
Come, Clodius, let us go shares with Jupiter; perhaps he has caught a Leda
Oh, spare me! spare me! I am but a child, I am blind -- is not that punishment enough
O Pallas! I know that voice, it is my poor flower-girl
Fury
how dare you use thus a girl -- one of your own sex, a child! My Nydia, my poor infant
Oh? is that you -- is that Glaucus
And how dare you, pert stranger! interfere between a free woman and her slave. By the gods! despite your fine tunic and your filthy perfumes, I doubt whether you are even a Roman citizen, my mannikin
Fair words, mistress -- fair words
This is my friend and sworn brother; he must be put under shelter of your tongue, sweet one; it rains stones
Give me my slave
Not if all your sister Furies could help you
Fear not, sweet Nydia; an Athenian never forsook distress
Holla
What turmoil is all this about a slave? Let go the young gentleman, wife -- let him go: for his sake the pert thing shall be spared this once
Methought when we entered
there was another man present
He is gone
Oh, a friend of mine! a brother cupman, a quiet dog, who does not love these snarlings
But go, child, you will tear the gentleman's tunic if you cling to him so tight; go, you are pardoned
Oh, do not -- do not forsake me
Well, who could have thought our blind Nydia had been so honored
My good man
this is your slave; she sings well, she is accustomed to the care of flowers -- I wish to make a present of such a slave to a lady. Will you sell her to me
Sell our Nydia! no, indeed
Nonsense
you must oblige me. What, man! what, old dame! offend me, and your trade is ruined. Is not Burbo my kinsman Pansa's client? Am I not the oracle of the amphitheatre and its heroes? If I say the word, break up your wine-jars -- you sell no more. Glaucus, the slave is yours
The girl is worth her weight in gold to me
Name your price, I am rich
I paid six sestertia for her, she is worth twelve now
You shall have twenty; come to the magistrates at once, and then to my house for your money
I would not have sold the dear girl for a hundred but to oblige noble Clodius
And you will speak to Pansa about the place of designator at the amphitheatre, noble Clodius? it would just suit me
Thou shalt have it
Yon Greek can make your fortune; money runs through him like a sieve: mark to-day with white chalk, my Priam
An dabis
Dabitur
Then, then, I am to go with you -- with you? O happiness
Pretty one, yes; and thy hardest task henceforth shall be to sing thy Grecian hymns to the loveliest lady in Pompeii
I thought I was to go to your house
And so thou shalt for the present; come, we lose time
He despises me -- he does not love me
This faith
is but a borrowed plagiarism from one of the many allegories invented by our priests of old. Observe
observe in these ancient figures the origin of the Christian's Trinity. Here are also three gods -- the Deity, the Spirit, and the Son. Observe, that the epithet of the Son is "Saviour"-- observe, that the sign by which his human qualities are denoted is the cross
You wear your veil at home
that is not fair to those whom you honour with your friendship
But to Arbaces
to Arbaces, who looks only to the mind, what matters it that the face is concealed
I do look only to the mind
show me then your face -- for there I shall see it
You grow gallant in the air of Pompeii
Do you think, fair Ione, that it is only at Pompeii that I have learned to value you
There is a love, beautiful Greek, which is not the love only of the thoughtless and the young -- there is a love which sees not with the eyes, which hears not with the ears; but in which soul is enamoured of soul. The countryman of thy ancestors, the cave-nursed Plato, dreamed of such a love -- his followers have sought to imitate it; but it is a love that is not for the herd to echo -- it is a love that only high and noble natures can conceive -- it hath nothing in common with the sympathies and ties of coarse affection -- wrinkles do not revolt it -- homeliness of feature does not deter; it asks youth, it is true, but it asks it only in the freshness of the emotions; it asks beauty, it is true, but it is the beauty of the thought and of the spirit. Such is the love, O Ione, which is a worthy offering to thee from the cold and the austere. Austere and cold thou deemest me -- such is the love that I venture to lay upon thy shrine -- thou canst receive it without a blush
And its name is friendship
Friendship
No; that is a word too often profaned to apply to a sentiment so sacred. Friendship! it is a tie that binds fools and profligates! Friendship! it is the bond that unites the frivolous hearts of a Glaucus and a Clodius! Friendship! no, that is an affection of earth, of vulgar habits and sordid sympathies; the feeling of which I speak is borrowed from the
Whomsoever Arbaces honors with the sentiment of esteem, it is natural that his elevated wisdom should color that sentiment with its own hues; it is natural that his friendship should be purer than that of others, whose pursuits and errors he does not deign to share. But tell me, Arbaces, hast thou seen my brother of late? He has not visited me for several days; and when I last saw him his manner disturbed and alarmed me much. I fear lest he was too precipitate in the severe choice that he has adopted, and that he repents an irrevocable step
Be cheered, Ione
It is true that, some little time since he was troubled and sad of spirit; those doubts beset him which were likely to haunt one of that fervent temperament, which ever ebbs and flows, and vibrates between excitement and exhaustion. But he, Ione, he came to me his anxieties and his distress; he sought one who pitied me and loved him; I have calmed his mind -- I have removed his doubts -- I have taken him from the threshold of Wisdom into its temple; and before the majesty of the goddess his soul is hushed and soothed. Fear not, he will repent no more; they who trust themselves to Arbaces never repent but for a moment
You rejoice me
My dear brother! in his contentment I am happy
You have never seen
the interior of my home; it may amuse you to do so: it contains some rooms that may explain to you what you have often asked me to describe -- the fashion of an Egyptian house; not indeed, that you will perceive in the poor and minute proportions of Roman architecture the massive strength, the vast space, the gigantic magnificence, or even the domestic construction of the palaces of Thebes and Memphis; but something there is, here and there, that may serve to express to you some notion of that antique civilization which has humanized the world. Devote, then, to the austere friend of your youth, one of these bright summer evenings, and let me boast that my gloomy mansion has been honored with the presence of the admired Ione
The eagle dropped a stone from his talons, thinking to break thy shell: the stone crushed the head of a poet. This is the allegory of Fate! Dull thing! Thou hadst a father and a mother; perhaps, ages ago, thou thyself hadst a mate. Did thy parents love, or didst thou? Did thy slow blood circulate more gladly when thou didst creep to the side of thy wedded one? Wert thou capable of affection? Could it distress thee if she were away from thy side? Couldst thou feel when she was present? What would I not give to know the history of thy mailed breast -- to gaze upon the mechanism of thy faint desires -- to mark what hair -- breadth difference separates thy sorrow from thy joy! Yet, methinks, thou wouldst know if Ione were present! Thou wouldst feel her coming like a happier air -- like a gladder sun. I envy thee now, for thou knowest not that she is absent; and I -- would I could be like thee -- between the intervals of seeing her! What doubt, what presentiment, haunts me! why will she not admit me? Days have passed since I heard her voice. For the first time, life grows flat to me. I am as one who is left alone at a banquet, the lights dead, and the flowers faded. Ah! Ione, couldst thou dream how I adore thee
Nydia, my child
Nydia
it is now three days since thou hast been under the protection of my household gods. Have they smiled on thee? Art thou happy
Ah! so happy
And now
that thou hast recovered somewhat from the hateful recollections of thy former state,-- and now that they have fitted thee (touching her broidered tunic) with garments more meet for thy delicate shape -- and now, sweet child, that thou hast accustomed thyself to a happiness, which may the gods grant thee ever! I am about to pray at thy hands a boon
Oh! what can I do for thee
Listen
and young as thou art, thou shalt be my confidant. Hast thou ever heard the name of Ione
Yes! I have heard that she is of Neapolis, and beautiful
Beautiful! her beauty is a thing to dazzle the day! Neapolis! nay, she is Greek by origin; Greece only could furnish forth such shapes. Nydia, I love her
I thought so
I love, and thou shalt tell her so. I am about to send thee to her. Happy Nydia, thou wilt be in her chamber -- thou wilt drink the music of her voice -- thou wilt bask in the sunny air of her presence
What! what! wilt thou send me from thee
Thou wilt go to Ione
What more canst thou desire
My child, my Nydia, thou weepest in ignorance of the happiness I bestow on thee. She is gentle, and kind, and soft as the breeze of spring. She will be a sister to thy youth -- she will appreciate thy winning talents -- she will love thy simple graces as none other could, for they are like her own. Weepest thou still, fond fool? I will not force thee, sweet. Wilt thou not do for me this kindness
Well, if I can serve thee, command. See, I weep no longer -- I am calm
That is my own Nydia
Go, then, to her: if thou art disappointed in her kindness -- if I have deceived thee, return when thou wilt. I do not give thee to another; I but lend. My home ever be thy refuge, sweet one. Ah! would it could shelter all the friendless and distressed! But if my heart whispers truly, I shall claim thee again soon, my child. My home and Ione's will become the same, and thou shalt dwell with both
Go, then, my Nydia, to Ione's house -- they shall show thee the way. Take her the fairest flowers thou canst pluck; the vase which contains them I will give thee: thou must excuse its unworthiness. Thou shalt take, too, with thee the lute that I gave thee yesterday, and from which thou knowest so well to awaken the charming spirit. Thou shalt give her, also, this letter, in which, after a hundred efforts, I have embodied something of my thoughts. Let thy ear catch every accent, every modulation of her voice, and tell me, when we meet again, if its music should flatter me or discourage. It is now, Nydia, some days since I have been admitted to Ione; there is something mysterious in this exclusion. I am distracted with doubts and fears; learn -- for thou art quick, and thy care for me will sharpen tenfold thy acuteness -- learn the cause of this unkindness; speak of me as often as thou canst; let my name come ever to thy lips: insinuate how I love rather than proclaim it; watch if she sighs whilst thou speakest, if she answer thee; or, if she reproves, in what accents she reproves. Be my friend, plead for me: and oh! how vastly wilt thou overpay the little I have done for thee! Thou comprehendest, Nydia; thou art yet a child -- have I said more than thou canst understand
No
And thou wilt serve me
Yes
Come to me when thou hast gathered the flowers, and I will give thee the vase I speak of; seek me in the chamber of Leda. Pretty one, thou dost not grieve now
Glaucus, I am a slave; what business have I with grief or joy
Sayest thou so? No, Nydia, be free. I give thee freedom; enjoy it as thou wilt, and pardon me that I reckoned on thy desire to serve me
You are offended. Oh! I would not, for that which no freedom can give, offend you, Glaucus. My guardian, my saviour, my protector, forgive the poor blind girl! She does not grieve even in leaving thee, if she can contribute to thy happiness
May the gods bless this grateful heart
Thou forgivest me
and thou wilt talk no more of freedom; my happiness is to be thy slave: thou hast promised thou wilt not give me to another
I have promised
And now, then, I will gather the flowers
Three happy days -- days of unspeakable delight, have I known since I passed thee -- blessed threshold! may peace dwell ever with thee when I am gone! And now, my heart tears itself from thee, and the only sound it utters bids me -- die
She is blind, that messenger
she will do her commission to none but thee
What can he want with me? what message can he send
Will the noble Ione
deign to speak, that I may know whither to steer these benighted steps, and that I may lay my offerings at her feet
Fair child
I may give these flowers to none but thee
I have not yet discharged my office
This will, perhaps, explain why he who sent me chose so unworthy a messenger to Ione
Glaucus to Ione sends more than he dares to utter. Is Ione ill? thy slaves tell me "No", and that assurance comforts me. Has Glaucus offended Ione?-- ah! that question I may not ask from them. For five days I have been banished from thy presence. Has the sun shone?-- I know it not. Has the sky smiled?-- it has had no smile for me. My sun and my sky are Ione. Do I offend thee? Am I too bold? Do I say that on the tablet which my tongue has hesitated to breathe? Alas! it is in thine absence that I feel most the spells by which thou hast subdued me. And absence, that deprives me of joy, brings me courage. Thou wilt not see me; thou hast banished also the common flatterers that flock around thee. Canst thou confound me with them? It is not possible! Thou knowest too well that I am not of them -- that their clay is not mine. For even were I of the humblest mould, the fragrance of the rose has penetrated me, and the spirit of thy nature hath passed within me, to embalm, to sanctify, to inspire. Have they slandered me to thee, Ione? Thou wilt not believe them. Did the Delphic oracle itself tell me thou wert unworthy, I would not believe it; and am I less incredulous than thou I think of the last time we met -- of the song which I sang to thee -- of the look that thou gavest me in return. Disguise it as thou wilt, Ione, there is something kindred between us, and our eyes acknowledged it, though our lips were silent. Deign to see me, to listen to me, and after that exclude me if thou wilt. I meant not so soon to say I loved. But those words rush to my heart -- they will have way. Accept, then, my homage and my vows. We met first at the shrine of Pallas; shall we not meet before a softer and a more ancient altar? 'Beautiful! adored Ione! If my hot youth and my Athenian blood have misguided and allured me, they have but taught my wanderings to appreciate the rest -- the haven they have attained. I hang up my dripping robes on the Sea-god's shrine. I have escaped shipwreck. I have found THEE. Ione, deign to see me; thou art gentle to strangers, wilt thou be less merciful to those of thine own land? I await thy reply. Accept the flowers which I send -- their sweet breath has a language more eloquent than words. They take from the sun the odorous they return -- they are the emblem of the love that receives and repays tenfold -- the emblem of the heart that drunk thy rays, and owes to thee the germ of the treasures that it proffers to thy smile. I send these by one whom thou wilt receive for her own sake, if not for mine. She, like us, is a stranger; her fathers' ashes lie under brighter skies: but, less happy than we, she is blind and a slave. Poor Nydia! I seek as much as possible to repair to her the cruelties of Nature and of Fate, in asking permission to place her with thee. She is gentle, quick, and docile. She is skilled in music and the song; and she is a very Chloris to the flowers. She thinks, Ione, that thou wilt love her: if thou dost not, send her back to me. 

'One word more -- let me be bold, Ione. Why thinkest thou so highly of yon dark Egyptian? he hath not about him the air of honest men. We Greeks learn mankind from our cradle; we are not the less profound, in that we affect no sombre mien; our lips smile, but our eyes are grave -- they observe -- they note -- they study. Arbaces is not one to be credulously trusted: can it be that he hath wronged me to thee? I think it, for I left him with thee; thou sawest how my presence stung him; since then thou hast not admitted me. Believe nothing that he can say to my disfavor; if thou dost, tell me so at once; for this Ione owes to Glaucus. Farewell! this letter touches thy hand; these characters meet thine eyes -- shall they be more blessed than he who is their author. Once more, farewell
Wilt thou sit, my child
while I write an answer to this letter
You will answer it, then
Well, the slave that accompanied me will take back your answer
For you
stay with me -- trust me, your service shall be light
What is your name, fair girl
They call me Nydia
Your country
The land of Olympus -- Thessaly
Thou shalt be to me a friend
as thou art already half a countrywoman. Meanwhile, I beseech thee, stand not on these cold and glassy marbles. There! now that thou art seated, I can leave thee for an instant
Ione to Glaucus greeting. Come to me, Glaucus
come to me to-morrow. I may have been unjust to thee; but I will tell thee, at least, the fault that has been imputed to thy charge. Fear not, henceforth, the Egyptian -- fear none. Thou sayest thou hast expressed too much -- alas! in these hasty words I have already done so. Farewell
You have written to Glaucus
I have
And will he thank the messenger who gives to him thy letter
I mean this
the lightest word of coldness from thee will sadden him -- the lightest kindness will rejoice. If it be the first, let the slave take back thine answer; if it be the last, let me -- I will return this evening
And why, Nydia
Wouldst thou be the bearer of my letter
It is so, then
Ah! how could it be otherwise; who could be unkind to Glaucus
My child
thou speakest warmly -- Glaucus, then, is amiable in thine eyes
Noble Ione! Glaucus has been that to me which neither fortune nor the gods have been -- a friend
Thou art grateful, and deservedly so; why should I blush to say that Glaucus is worthy of thy gratitude? Go, my Nydia -- take to him thyself this letter -- but return again. If I am from home when thou returnest -- as this evening, perhaps, I shall be -- thy chamber shall be prepared next my own. Nydia, I have no sister -- wilt thou be one to me
One favor, fair Ione -- may I dare to ask it
Thou canst not ask what I will not grant
They tell me
that thou art beautiful beyond the loveliness of earth. Alas! I cannot see that which gladdens the world! Wilt thou suffer me, then, to pass my hand over thy face?-- that is my sole criterion of beauty, and I usually guess aright
I know now, that thou art beautiful
and I can picture thee to my darkness henceforth, and for ever
DEAREST Nydia
whitest robed messenger that ever passed between earth and heaven -- how, how shall I thank thee
I am rewarded
To-morrow -- to-morrow! how shall I while the hours till then
To the house of Arbaces -- of the Egyptian? Impossible
It is true, my little one
She has known the Egyptian long
Long! ye gods, yet Glaucus loves her
And has
has she often visited him before
Never till now
If all the rumored scandal of Pompeii be true, it would be better, perhaps, if she had not ventured there at present. But she, poor mistress mine, hears nothing of that which reaches us; the talk of the vestibulum reaches not to the peristyle
Never till now
Art thou sure
Sure, pretty one: but what is that to thee or to us
She does not dream -- she cannot -- of the dangers into which she has plunged. Fool that I am -- shall I save her?-- yes, for I love Glaucus better than myself
There is no time to be lost
Knowest thou
if Ione has any relative, any intimate friend at Pompeii
Why, by Jupiter
art thou silly enough to ask the question? Every one in Pompeii knows that Ione has a brother who, young and rich, has been -- under the rose I speak -- so foolish as to become a priest of Isis
A priest of Isis! O Gods! his name
Apaecides
I know it all
brother and sister, then, are to be both victims! Apaecides! yes, that was the name I heard in... Ha! he well, then, knows the peril that surrounds his sister; I will go to him
There is no one here
What dost thou want, or whom Knowest thou not that the priests do not live in the temple
Call out
night and day there is always one flamen, at least, watching in the shrine of Isis
Seest thou no one
No one
Thou mistakest; I hear a sigh: look again
I see a figure, said he; 'and by the white garments, it is a priest
O flamen of Isis
servant of the Most Ancient, hear me
Who calls
One who has no common tidings to impart to a member of your body: I come to declare and not to ask oracles
With whom wouldst thou confer? This is no hour for thy conference; depart, disturb me not; the night is sacred to the gods, the day to men
Methinks I know thy voice? thou art he whom I seek; yet I have heard thee speak but once before. Art thou not the priest Apaecides
I am that man
Thou art! the gods be praised
Hush
art thou indeed Apaecides
If thou knowest me, canst thou not recall my features
I am blind
my eyes are in my ear, and that recognizes thee: yet swear that thou art he
By the gods I swear it, by my right hand, and by the moon
Hush! speak low -- bend near -- give me thy hand; knowest thou Arbaces? Hast thou laid flowers at the feet of the dead? Ah! thy hand is cold -- hark yet!-- hast thou taken the awful vow
Who art thou, whence comest thou, pale maiden
I know thee not; thine is not the breast on which this head hath lain; I have never seen thee before
But thou hast heard my voice: no matter, those recollections it should shame us both to recall. Listen, thou hast a sister
Speak! speak! what of her
Thou knowest the banquets of the dead, stranger -- it pleases thee, perhaps, to share them -- would it please thee to have thy sister a partaker? Would it please thee that Arbaces was her host
O gods, he dare not! Girl, if thou mockest me, tremble! I will tear thee limb from limb
I speak the truth; and while I speak, Ione is in the halls of Arbaces -- for the first time his guest. Thou knowest if there be peril in that first time! Farewell! I have fulfilled my charge
Stay! stay
If this be true, what -- what can be done to save her? They may not admit me. I know not all the mazes of that intricate mansion. O Nemesis! justly am I punished
I will dismiss yon slave, be thou my guide and comrade; I will lead thee to the private door of the house: I will whisper to thee the word which admits. Take some weapon: it may be needful
Wait an instant
Now
if Arbaces hath dared to -- but he dare not! he dare not! Why should I suspect him? Is he so base a villain? I will not think it -- yet, sophist! dark bewilderer that he is! O gods protect -- hush! are there gods? Yes, there is one goddess, at least, whose voice I can command; and that is -- Vengeance
Again do the stars forewarn me! Some danger, then, assuredly awaits me
some danger, violent and sudden in its nature. The stars wear for me the same mocking menace which, if our chronicles do not err, they once wore for Pyrrhus -- for him, doomed to strive for all things, to enjoy none -- all attacking, nothing gaining -- battles without fruit, laurels without triumph, fame without success; at last made craven by his own superstitions, and slain like a dog by a tile from the hand of an old woman! Verily, the stars flatter when they give me a type in this fool of war -- when they promise to the ardour of my wisdom the same results as to the madness of his ambition -- perpetual exercise -- no certain goal!-- the Sisyphus task, the mountain and the stone!-- the stone, a gloomy image!-- it reminds me that I am threatened with somewhat of the same death as the Epirote. Let me look again. "Beware," say the shining prophets, "how thou passest under ancient roofs, or besieged walls, or overhanging cliffs -- a stone hurled from above, is charged by the curses of destiny against thee!" And, at no distant date from this, comes the peril: but I cannot, of a certainty, read the day and hour. Well! if my glass runs low, the sands shall sparkle to the last. Yet, if I escape this peril -- ay, if I escape -- bright and clear as the moonlight track along the waters glows the rest of my existence. I see honors, happiness, success, shining upon every billow of the dark gulf beneath which I must sink at last. What, then, with such destinies beyond the peril, shall I succumb to the peril? My soul whispers hope, it sweeps exultingly beyond the boding hour, it revels in the future -- its own courage is its fittest omen. If I were to perish so suddenly and so soon, the shadow of death would darken over me, and I should feel the icy presentiment of my doom. My soul would express, in sadness and in gloom, its forecast of the dreary Orcus. But it smiles -- it assures me of deliverance
Ye slumber
ye slumber!-- would it were the eternal repose of death! As ye now -- jewels in the crown of empire -- so once were the cities of the Nile! Their greatness hath perished from them, they sleep amidst ruins, their palaces and their shrines are tombs, the serpent coils in the grass of their streets, the lizard basks in their solitary halls. By that mysterious law of Nature, which humbles one to exalt the other, ye have thriven upon their ruins; thou, haughty Rome, hast usurped the glories of Sesostris and Semiramis -- thou art a robber, clothing thyself with their spoils! And these -- slaves in thy triumph -- that I (the last son of forgotten monarchs) survey below, reservoirs of thine all-pervading power and luxury, I curse as I behold! The time shall come when Egypt shall be avenged! when the barbarian's steed shall make his manger in the Golden House of Nero! and thou that hast sown the wind with conquest shalt reap the harvest in the whirlwind of desolation
Ho
I have then, another companion in these unworldly night -- watches. The witch of Vesuvius is abroad. What! doth she, too, as the credulous imagine -- doth she, too, learn the lore of the great stars? Hath she been uttering foul magic to the moon, or culling (as her pauses betoken) foul herbs from the venomous marsh? Well, I must see this fellow-laborer. Whoever strives to know learns that no human lore is despicable. Despicable only you -- ye fat and bloated things -- slaves of luxury -- sluggards in thought -- who, cultivating nothing but the barren sense, dream that its poor soil can produce alike the myrtle and the laurel. No, the wise only can enjoy -- to us only true luxury is given, when mind, brain, invention, experience, thought, learning, imagination, all contribute like rivers to swell the seas of SENSE!-- Ione
If death frowns so near, I will say at least that I have lived -- Ione shall be mine
If (he reasoned) I have the genius to impose laws, have I not the right to command my own creations? Still more, have I not the right to control -- to evade -- to scorn -- the fabrications of yet meaner intellects than my own
Beautiful Ione
it is you that have eclipsed the day -- it is your eyes that light up the halls -- it is your breath which fills them with perfumes
You must not talk to me thus
you forget that your lore has sufficiently instructed my mind to render these graceful flatteries to my person unwelcome. It was you who taught me to disdain adulation: will you unteach your pupil
I have often heard
that you were rich; but I never dreamed of the amount of your wealth
Would I could coin it all
into one crown, which I might place upon that snowy brow
Alas! the weight would crush me; I should be a second Tarpeia
But thou dost not disdain riches, O Ione! they know not what life is capable of who are not wealthy. Gold is the great magician of earth -- it realizes our dreams -- it gives them the power of a god -- there is a grandeur, a sublimity, in its possession; it is the mightiest, yet the most obedient of our slaves
Hast thou never in this dark and uncertain world -- hast thou never aspired, my pupil, to look beyond -- hast thou never wished to put aside the veil of futurity, and to behold on the shores of Fate the shadowy images of things to be? For it is not the past alone that has its ghosts: each event to come has also its spectrum -- its shade; when the hour arrives, life enters it, the shadow becomes corporeal, and walks the world. Thus, in the land beyond the grave, are ever two impalpable and spiritual hosts -- the things to be, the things that have been! If by our wisdom we can penetrate that land, we see the one as the other, and learn, as I have learned, not alone the mysteries of the dead, but also the destiny of the living
As thou hast learned!-- Can wisdom attain so far
Wilt thou prove my knowledge, Ione, and behold the representation of thine own fate? It is a drama more striking than those of AEschylus: it is one I have prepared for thee, if thou wilt see the shadows perform their part
It may revolt -- it may terrify; the knowledge of the future will perhaps only embitter the present
Not so, Ione. I have myself looked upon thy future lot, and the ghosts of thy Future bask in the gardens of Elysium: amidst the asphodel and the rose they prepare the garlands of thy sweet destiny, and the Fates, so harsh to others, weave only for thee the web of happiness and love. Wilt thou then come and behold thy doom, so that thou mayest enjoy it beforehand
Whither wouldst thou lead me, Arbaces
But yonder
It is a temple consecrated to the Fates -- our rites require such holy ground
Be not alarmed
the light will rise instantly
Shall the shadow disclose itself
Ah, yes
This is, indeed, thy fate
And thou art destined to be the bride of Arbaces
Oh, Ione
listen to one who has long struggled vainly with his love. I adore thee! The Fates do not lie -- thou art destined to be mine -- I have sought the world around, and found none like thee. From my youth upward, I have sighed for such as thou art. I have dreamed till I saw thee -- I wake, and I behold thee. Turn not away from me, Ione; think not of me as thou hast thought; I am not that being -- cold, insensate, and morose, which I have seemed to thee. Never woman had lover so devoted -- so passionate as I will be to Ione. Do not struggle in my clasp: see -- I release thy hand. Take it from me if thou wilt -- well be it so! But do not reject me, Ione -- do not rashly reject -- judge of thy power over him whom thou canst thus transform. I, who never knelt to mortal being, kneel to thee. I, who have commanded fate, receive from thee my own. Ione, tremble not, thou art my queen -- my goddess -- be my bride! All the wishes thou canst form shall be fulfilled. The ends of the earth shall minister to thee -- pomp, power, luxury, shall be thy slaves. Arbaces shall have no ambition, save the pride of obeying thee. Ione, turn upon me those eyes -- shed upon me thy smile. Dark is my soul when thy face is hid from it: shine over me, my sun -- my heaven -- my daylight!-- Ione, Ione -- do not reject my love
Rise, Arbaces
Rise! and if thou art serious, if thy language be in earnest
If
Well, then, listen to me: you have been my guardian, my friend, my monitor; for this new character I was not prepared -- think not
think not that I scorn -- that I am untouched -- that I am not honored by this homage; but, say -- canst thou hear me calmly
Ay, though thy words were lightning, and could blast me
I love another
By the gods -- by hell
dare not tell me that -- dare not mock me -- it is impossible!-- Whom hast thou seen -- whom known? Oh, Ione, it is thy woman's invention, thy woman's art that speaks -- thou wouldst gain time; I have surprised -- I have terrified thee. Do with me as thou wilt -- say that thou lovest not me; but say not that thou lovest another
Alas
Is the writer of this the man thou lovest
Speak
It is -- it is! 'And his name -- it is written here -- his name is Glaucus
Then hear me
thou shalt go to thy tomb rather than to his arms! What! thinkest thou Arbaces will brook a rival such as this puny Greek? What! thinkest thou that he has watched the fruit ripen, to yield it to another! Pretty fool -- no! Thou art mine -- all -- only mine: and thus -- thus I seize and claim thee
Ah
what Fury hath sent ye hither
Ate
O ancient goddess
protect thy chosen -- proclaim they vengeance against this thing of an upstart creed, who with sacrilegious violence profanes thy resting-place and assails thy servant
Die, wretch
the Mighty Mother claims thee as a living sacrifice
The Earth has preserved her children
Blessed be the dread convulsion! Let us worship the providence of the gods
THE EARTHQUAKE! THE EARTHQUAKE
Who is yon cynic
It is Olinthus
a reputed Nazarene
A dread sect
It is said that when they meet at nights they always commence their ceremonies by the murder of a new-born babe; they profess a community of goods, too -- the wretches! A community of goods! What would become of merchants, or jewellers either, if such notions were in fashion
That is very true
besides, they wear no jewels -- they mutter imprecations when they see a serpent; and at Pompeii all our ornaments are serpentine
Do but observe
how yon Nazarene scowls at the piety of the sacrificial procession. He is murmuring curses on the temple, be sure. Do you know, Celcinus, that this fellow, passing by my shop the other day, and seeing me employed on a statue of Minerva, told me with a frown that, had it been marble, he would have broken it; but the bronze was too strong for him. "Break a goddess!" said I. "A goddess!" answered the atheist; "it is a demon -- an evil spirit!" Then he passed on his way cursing. Are such things to be borne? What marvel that the earth heaved so fearfully last night, anxious to reject the atheist from her bosom?-- An atheist, do I say? worse still -- a scorner of the Fine Arts! Woe to us fabricants of bronze, if such fellows as this give the law to society
These are the incendiaries that burnt Rome under Nero
Deluded idolaters!-- did not last night's convulsion warn ye? Alas! how will ye meet the last day
Is he, too, an impostor? Does this man, so plain and simple in life, in garb, in mien -- does he too, like Arbaces, make austerity the robe of the sensualist? Does the veil of Vesta hide the vices of the prostitute
Peace be with thee
Peace
In that wish
all good things are combined -- without virtue thou canst not have peace. Like the rainbow, Peace rests upon the earth, but its arch is lost in heaven. Heaven bathes it in hues of light -- it springs up amidst tears and clouds -- it is a reflection of the Eternal Sun -- it is an assurance of calm -- it is the sign of a great covenant between Man and God. Such peace, O young man! is the smile of the soul; it is an emanation from the distant orb of immortal light. PEACE be with you
Alas
We cannot converse here, I will follow thee to the banks of the river; there is a walk which at this time is usually deserted and solitary
BUT tell me, Glaucus
how camest thou with Apaecides to my rescue from that bad man
Ask Nydia yonder
she must have thy thanks, not we. It seems that she came to my house, and, finding me from home, sought thy brother in his temple; he accompanied her to Arbaces; on their way they encountered me, with a company of friends, whom thy kind letter had given me a spirit cheerful enough to join. Nydia's quick ear detected my voice -- a few words sufficed to make me the companion of Apaecides; I told not my associates why I left them -- could I trust thy name to their light tongues and gossiping opinion?-- Nydia led us to the garden gate, by which we afterwards bore thee -- we entered, and were about to plunge into the mysteries of that evil house, when we heard thy cry in another direction. Thou knowest the rest
Come hither, my Nydia
Did I not tell thee that thou shouldst be my sister and friend? Hast thou not already been more?-- my guardian, my preserver
It is nothing
Ah! I forgot
But how camest thou, Nydia
to surmise so faithfully the danger I was exposed to? Didst thou know aught of the Egyptian
Yes, I knew of his vices
And how
Noble Ione, I have been a slave to the vicious -- those whom I served were his minions
And thou hast entered his house since thou knewest so well that private entrance
I have played on my lyre to Arbaces
And thou hast escaped the contagion from which thou hast saved Ione
Noble Ione, I have neither beauty nor station; I am a child, and a slave, and blind. The despicable are ever safe
Confess that I was right, Ione
in prevailing on thee not to waste this beautiful noon in thy chamber -- confess that I was right
Thou wert right, Glaucus
The dear child speaks for thee
But permit me to move opposite to thee, or our light boat will be over-balanced
Thou wert to tell me
why for so many days thy door was closed to me
Oh, think of it no more
I gave my ear to what I now know was the malice of slander
And my slanderer was the Egyptian
His motives are sufficiently obvious
Talk not of him
Perhaps he may be already by the banks of the slow Styx
yet in that case we should probably have heard of his death. Thy brother, methinks, hath felt the dark influence of his gloomy soul. When we arrived last night at thy house he left me abruptly. Will he ever vouchsafe to be my friend
He is consumed with some secret care
Would that we could lure him from himself! Let us join in that tender office
He shall be my brother
How calmly
how calmly the clouds seem to repose in heaven; and yet you tell me, for I knew it not myself, that the earth shook beneath us last night
It did, and more violently, they say, than it has done since the great convulsion sixteen years ago: the land we live in yet nurses mysterious terror; and the reign of Pluto, which spreads beneath our burning fields, seems rent with unseen commotion. Didst thou not feel the earth quake, Nydia, where thou wert seated last night? and was it not the fear that it occasioned thee that made thee weep
I felt the soil creep and heave beneath me, like some monstrous serpent
but as I saw nothing, I did not fear: I imagined the convulsion to be a spell of the Egyptian's. They say he has power over the elements
Thou art a Thessalian, my Nydia
Magic!-- who doubts it
dost thou
Until last night (when a necromantic prodigy did indeed appal me), methinks I was not credulous in any other magic save that of love
Ah
Play to us, dear Nydia, said Glaucus
Of love
Will you that I should sing of love
Yes
Thou singest but sadly, sweet girl
I sing as I was taught
Thy master was love-crossed, then -- try thy hand at a gayer air. Nay, girl, give the instrument to me
After all, O Glaucus
there is nothing very mirthful in your strain
Yet I meant it to be so, when I took up thy lyre, pretty one. Perhaps happiness will not permit us to be mirthful
How strange is it
that for the last several days yonder cloud has hung motionless over Vesuvius! Yet not indeed motionless, for sometimes it changes its form; and now methinks it looks like some vast giant, with an arm outstretched over the city. Dost thou see the likeness -- or is it only to my fancy
Fair Ione! I see it also. It is astonishingly distinct. The giant seems seated on the brow of the mountain, the different shades of the cloud appear to form a white robe that sweeps over its vast breast and limbs; it seems to gaze with a steady face upon the city below, to point with one hand, as thou sayest, over its glittering streets, and to raise the other (dost thou note it?) towards the higher heaven. It is like the ghost of some huge Titan brooding over the beautiful world he lost; sorrowful for the past -- yet with something of menace for the future
Could that mountain have any connection with the last night's earthquake? They say that, ages ago, almost in the earliest era of tradition, it gave forth fires as AEtna still. Perhaps the flames yet lurk and dart beneath
It is possible
Thou sayest thou art slow to believe in magic
I have heard that a potent witch dwells amongst the scorched caverns of the mountain, and yon cloud may be the dim shadow of the demon she confers with
Thou art full of the romance of thy native Thessaly
and a strange mixture of sense and all conflicting superstitions
We are ever superstitious in the dark
Tell me
tell me, O Glaucus! do all that are beautiful resemble each other? They say you are beautiful, and Ione also. Are your faces then the same? I fancy not, yet it ought to be so
Fancy no such grievous wrong to Ione
But we do not, alas! resemble each other, as the homely and the beautiful sometimes do. Ione's hair is dark, mine light; Ione's eyes are -- what color, Ione? I cannot see, turn them to me. Oh, are they black? no, they are too soft. Are they blue? no, they are too deep: they change with every ray of the sun -- I know not their color: but mine, sweet Nydia, are grey, and bright only when Ione shines on them! Ione's cheek is
I do not understand one word of thy description
I comprehend only that you do not resemble each other, and I am glad of it
Why, Nydia
Because
I have always imagined you under different forms, and one likes to know one is right
And what hast thou imagined Glaucus to resemble
Music
Thou art right
And what likeness hast thou ascribed to Ione
I cannot tell yet
I have not yet known her long enough to find a shape and sign for my guesses
I will tell thee, then
she is like the sun that warms -- like the wave that refreshes
The sun sometimes scorches, and the wave sometimes drowns
Take then these roses
let their fragrance suggest to thee Ione
Alas, the roses will fade
Thou seest, my child
Since thou leftst me so abruptly
hast thou been happy? has thy heart found contentment under these priestly robes? hast thou, still yearning for the voice of God, heard it whisper comfort to thee from the oracles of Isis? That sigh, that averted countenance, give me the answer my soul predicted
Alas
thou seest before thee a wretched and distracted man! From my childhood upward I have idolized the dreams of virtue! I have envied the holiness of men who, in caves and lonely temples, have been admitted to the companionship of beings above the world; my days have been consumed with feverish and vague desires; my nights with mocking but solemn visions. Seduced by the mystic prophecies of an impostor, I have indued these robes;-- my nature (I confess it to thee frankly)-- my nature has revolted at what I have seen and been doomed to share in! Searching after truth, I have become but the minister of falsehoods. On the evening in which we last met, I was buoyed by hopes created by that same impostor, whom I ought already to have better known. I have -- no matter -- no matter! suffice it, I have added perjury and sin to rashness and to sorrow. The veil is now rent for ever from my eyes; I behold a villain where I obeyed a demigod; the earth darkens in my sight; I am in the deepest abyss of gloom; I know not if there be gods above; if we are the things of chance; if beyond the bounded and melancholy present there is annihilation or an hereafter -- tell me, then, thy faith; solve me these doubts, if thou hast indeed the power
I do not marvel
that thou hast thus erred, or that thou art thus sceptic. Eighty years ago there was no assurance to man of God, or of a certain and definite future beyond the grave. New laws are declared to him who has ears -- a heaven, a true Olympus, is revealed to him who has eyes -- heed then, and listen
Come
come to the humble hall in which we meet -- a select and a chosen few; listen there to our prayers; note the sincerity of our repentant tears; mingle in our simple sacrifice -- not of victims, nor of garlands, but offered by white-robed thoughts upon the altar of the heart. The flowers that we lay there are imperishable -- they bloom over us when we are no more; nay, they accompany us beyond the grave, they spring up beneath our feet in heaven, they delight us with an eternal odor, for they are of the soul, they partake of its nature; these offerings are temptations overcome, and sins repented. Come, oh come! lose not another moment; prepare already for the great, the awful journey, from darkness to light, from sorrow to bliss, from corruption to immortality! This is the day of the Lord the Son, a day that we have set apart for our devotions. Though we meet usually at night, yet some amongst us are gathered together even now. What joy, what triumph, will be with us all, if we can bring one stray lamb into the sacred fold
Lead on, I follow thee
So
unconscious and mirthful in their delusions, sail the votaries of luxury into the great ocean of storm and shipwreck! we pass them, silent and unnoticed, to gain the land
Peace be with you
Peace with whom
The Faithful
Men and brethren
start not to behold amongst you a priest of Isis; he hath sojourned with the blind, but the Spirit hath fallen on him -- he desires to see, to hear, and to understand
Let him
Let him
Let him
Let him
We do not
we do not bind you to secrecy; we impose on you no oaths (as some of our weaker brethren would do) not to betray us. It is true, indeed, that there is no absolute law against us; but the multitude, more savage than their rulers, thirst for our lives. So, my friends, when Pilate would have hesitated, it was the people who shouted "Christ to the cross!" But we bind you not to our safety -- no! Betray us to the crowd -- impeach, calumniate, malign us if you will -- we are above death, we should walk cheerfully to the den of the lion, or the rack of the torturer -- we can trample down the darkness of the grave, and what is death to a criminal is eternity to the Christian
Thou comest amongst us as an examiner, mayest thou remain a convert! Our religion? you behold it! Yon cross our sole image, yon scroll the mysteries of our Caere and Eleusis! Our morality? it is in our lives!-- sinners we all have been; who now can accuse us of a crime? we have baptized ourselves from the past. Think not that this is of us, it is of God. Approach, Medon
thou art the sole man amongst us who is not free. But in heaven, the last shall be first: so with us. Unfold your scroll, read and explain
My children, God be with you
Father
thou on whose form the miracle of the Redeemer worked; thou who wert snatched from the grave to become the living witness of His mercy and His power; behold! a stranger in our meeting -- a new lamb gathered to the fold
Let me bless him
Come hither, Nydia; put down thy vase, and come hither. Thou must take this chain from me -- stay -- there, I have put it on. There, Servilius, does it not become her
Wonderfully
But when these ear-rings glitter in the ears of the noble Ione, then, by Bacchus! you will see whether my art adds anything to beauty
Ione
Yes
I am choosing a present for Ione, but there are none worthy of her
How is this? What, Nydia, dost thou not like the bauble? art thou offended
You treat me ever as a slave and as a child
I have offended thee
and for the first time. I would die rather than cause thee a moment's pain -- say that thou wilt forgive me. See! I have taken up the chain; I have put it on: I will never part from it -- it is thy gift
My dear Nydia
think of it no more! But why, my child, wert thou so suddenly angry? I could not divine the cause
Do not ask
I am a thing full of faults and humors; you know I am but a child -- you say so often: is it from a child that you can expect a reason for every folly
But, prettiest, you will soon be a child no more; and if you would have us treat you as a woman, you must learn to govern these singular impulses and gales of passion. Think not I chide: no, it is for your happiness only I speak
It is true
I must learn to govern myself I must bide, I must suppress, my heart. This is a woman's task and duty; methinks her virtue is hypocrisy
Self-control is not deceit, my Nydia
Self-control! self-control! Well, well, what you say is right! When I listen to you, Glaucus, my wildest thoughts grow calm and sweet, and a delicious serenity falls over me. Advise, ah! guide me ever, my preserver
Thy affectionate heart will be thy best guide, Nydia, when thou hast learned to regulate its feelings
Ah! that will be never
Say not so: the first effort is the only difficult one
I have made many first efforts
But you, my Mentor, do you find it so easy to control yourself? Can you conceal, can you even regulate, your love for Ione
Love! dear Nydia: ah! that is quite another matter
I thought so
Glaucus, wilt thou take my poor flowers? Do with them as thou wilt -- thou canst give them to Ione
Nay, Nydia
I will not give thy pretty flowers to any one. Sit here and weave them into a garland; I will wear it this night: it is not the first those delicate fingers have woven for me
Thou hast beautiful locks
They were once, I ween well, a mother's delight
But do I weave too many roses in my wreath, Glaucus? They tell me it is thy favorite flower
And ever favored, my Nydia, be it by those who have the soul of poetry: it is the flower of love, of festival; it is also the flower we dedicate to silence and to death; it blooms on our brows in life, while life be worth the having; it is scattered above our sepulchre when we are no more
Ah! would
instead of this perishable wreath, that I could take thy web from the hand of the Fates, and insert the roses there
Pretty one! thy wish is worthy of a voice so attuned to song; it is uttered in the spirit of song; and, whatever my doom, I thank thee
Whatever thy doom! is it not already destined to all things bright and fair? My wish was vain. The Fates will be as tender to thee as I should
It might not be so, Nydia, were it not for love! While youth lasts, I may forget my country for a while. But what Athenian, in his graver manhood, can think of Athens as she was, and be contented that he is happy, while she is fallen?-- fallen, and for ever
And why for ever
As ashes cannot be rekindled -- as love once dead can never revive, so freedom departed from a people is never regained. But talk we not of these matters unsuited to thee
To me, oh! thou errest. I, too, have my sighs for Greece; my cradle was rocked at the foot of Olympus; the gods have left the mountain, but their traces may be seen -- seen in the hearts of their worshippers, seen in the beauty of their clime: they tell me it is beautiful, and I have felt its airs, to which even these are harsh -- its sun, to which these skies are chill. Oh! talk to me of Greece! Poor fool that I am, I can comprehend thee! and methinks, had I yet lingered on those shores, had I been a Grecian maid whose happy fate it was to love and to be loved, I myself could have armed my lover for another Marathon, a new Plataea. Yes, the hand that now weaves the roses should have woven thee the olive crown
If such a day could come
But no! the sun has set, and the night only bids us be forgetful -- and in forgetfulness be gay -- weave still the roses
WHAT happiness to Ione! what bliss to be ever by the side of Glaucus, to hear his voice!-- And she too can see him
Blind flower-girl, whither goest thou? There is no pannier under thine arm; hast thou sold all thy flowers
Dost thou not remember my voice
I am the daughter of Diomed the wealthy
Ah! forgive me; yes, I recall the tones of your voice. No, noble Julia, I have no flowers to sell
I heard that thou wert purchased by the beautiful Greek Glaucus; is that true, pretty slave
I serve the Neapolitan, Ione
Ah! and it is true, then
Come, come
the night grows cold; I cannot stay here while you prate to that blind girl: come, let her follow you home, if you wish to speak to her
Do, child
I have much to ask of thee: come
I cannot this night, it grows late
I must be at home; I am not free, noble Julia
What, the meek Ione will chide thee?-- Ay, I doubt not she is a second Thalestris. But come, then, to-morrow: do -- remember I have been thy friend of old
I will obey thy wishes
May the gods bless thee, my brother
The gods! Speak not thus vaguely; perchance there is but one God
My brother
What if the sublime faith of the Nazarene be true? What if God be a monarch -- One -- Invisible -- Alone? What if these numerous, countless deities, whose altars fill the earth, be but evil demons, seeking to wean us from the true creed? This may be the case, Ione
What! all this beautiful world made only human!-- mountain disenchanted of its Oread -- the waters of their Nymph -- that beautiful prodigality of faith, which makes everything divine, consecrating the meanest flowers, bearing celestial whispers in the faintest breeze -- wouldst thou deny this, and make the earth mere dust and clay? No, Apaecides: all that is brightest in our hearts is that very credulity which peoples the universe with gods
Ah, my brother
these hard duties of thine have shattered thy very sense. Come to me, Apaecides, my brother, my own brother; give me thy hand, let me wipe the dew from thy brow -- chide me not now, I understand thee not; think only that Ione could not offend thee
Ione
can I think that this beautiful form, this kind heart, may be destined to an eternity of torment
Dii meliora! the gods forbid
Farewell, my sister! when we next meet, thou mayst be to me as nothing; take thou, then, this embrace -- full yet of all the tender reminiscences of childhood, when faith and hope, creeds, customs, interests, objects, were the same to us. Now, the tie is to be broken
Hast thou ever heard much
of this new sect of the Nazarenes, of which my brother spoke
I have often heard enough of the votaries
but of their exact tenets know I naught, save that in their doctrine there seemeth something preternaturally chilling and morose. They live apart from their kind; they affect to be shocked even at our simple uses of garlands; they have no sympathies with the cheerful amusements of life; they utter awful threats of the coming destruction of the world; they appear, in one word, to have brought their unsmiling and gloomy creed out of the cave of Trophonius. Yet
Then declared that solemn man how this great Maker of all things, who had appointed unto man his several tribes and his various homes -- the Lord of earth and the universal heaven, dwelt not in temples made with hands; that His presence, His spirit, were in the air we breathed -- our life and our being were with Him. "Think you," he cried, "that the Invisible is like your statues of gold and marble? Think you that He needeth sacrifice from you: He who made heaven and earth?" Then spoke he of fearful and coming times, of the end of the world, of a second rising of the dead, whereof an assurance had been given to man in the resurrection of the mighty Being whose religion he came to preach. 'When he thus spoke, the long-pent murmur went forth, and the philosophers that were mingled with the people, muttered their sage contempt; there might you have seen the chilling frown of the Stoic, and the Cynic's sneer; and the Epicurean, who believeth not even in our own Elysium, muttered a pleasant jest, and swept laughing through the crowd: but the deep heart of the people was touched and thrilled; and they trembled, though they knew not why, for verily the stranger had the voice and majesty of a man to whom "The Unknown God" had committed the preaching of His faith
Hast thou heard the news, old Medon
The news! what news
Why, there passed through the gate this morning, no doubt ere thou wert well awake, such a visitor to Pompeii
Ay
Yes, a present from the noble Pomponianus
A present! I thought thou saidst a visitor
It is both visitor and present. Know, O dull and stupid! that it is a most beautiful young tiger, for our approaching games in the amphitheatre. Hear you that, Medon? Oh, what pleasure! I declare I shall not sleep a wink till I see it; they say it has such a roar
Poor fool
Fool me no fool, old churl! It is a pretty thing, a tiger, especially if we could but find somebody for him to eat. We have now a lion and a tiger; only consider that, Medon! and for want of two good criminals perhaps we shall be forced to see them eat each other. By-the-by, your son is a gladiator, a handsome man and a strong, can you not persuade him to fight the tiger? Do now, you would oblige me mightily; nay, you would be a benefactor to the whole town
Vah! vah
think of thine own danger ere thou thus pratest of my poor boy's death
My own danger
Avert the omen! let thy words fall on thine own head
Thine own danger!" what danger threatens me
Had the earthquake but a few nights since no warning
Has it not a voice? Did it not say to us all, "Prepare for death; the end of all things is at hand
Bah, stuff
Now thou talkest as they say the Nazarenes talked -- methinks thou art one of them. Well, I can prate with thee, grey croaker, no more: thou growest worse and worse -- Vale! O Hercules, send us a man for the lion -- and another for the tiger
My poor son
is it for things like this thou art to be butchered? Oh! faith of Christ, I could worship thee in all sincerity, were it but for the horror which thou inspirest for these bloody lists
Father
My boy! my Lydon! is it indeed thou
Ah, thou wert present to my thoughts
I am glad to hear it, my father
and soon may I be always present with thee, not in thought only
Yes, my son -- but not in this world
Talk not thus, O my sire! look cheerfully, for I feel so -- I am sure that I shall win the day; and then, the gold I gain buys thy freedom. Oh! my father, it was but a few days since that I was taunted, by one, too, whom I would gladly have undeceived, for he is more generous than the rest of his equals. He is not Roman -- he is of Athens -- by him I was taunted with the lust of gain -- when I demanded what sum was the prize of victory. Alas! he little knew the soul of Lydon
My boy! my boy
Generous, affectionate, pious as are thy motives
thy deed itself is guilt: thou art to risk thy blood for thy father's freedom -- that might be forgiven; but the prize of victory is the blood of another. Oh, that is a deadly sin; no object can purify it. Forbear! forbear! rather would I be a slave for ever than purchase liberty on such terms
Hush, my father
thou hast picked up in this new creed of thine, of which I pray thee not to speak to me, for the gods that gave me strength denied me wisdom, and I understand not one word of what thou often preachest to me -- thou hast picked up, I say, in this new creed, some singular fantasies of right and wrong. Pardon me if I offend thee: but reflect! Against whom shall I contend? Oh! couldst thou know those wretches with whom, for thy sake, I assort, thou wouldst think I purified earth by removing one of them. Beasts, whose very lips drop blood; things, all savage, unprincipled in their very courage: ferocious, heartless, senseless; no tie of life can bind them: they know not fear, it is true -- but neither know they gratitude, nor charity, nor love; they are made but for their own career, to slaughter without pity, to die without dread! Can thy gods, whosoever they be, look with wrath on a conflict with such as these, and in such a cause? Oh, My father, wherever the powers above gaze down on earth, they behold no duty so sacred, so sanctifying, as the sacrifice offered to an aged parent by the piety of a grateful son
And if
if thy Deity (methinks thou wilt own but one?) be indeed that benevolent and pitying Power which thou assertest Him to be, He will know also that thy very faith in Him first confirmed me in that determination thou blamest
How! what mean you
Why, thou knowest that I, sold in my childhood as a slave, was set free at Rome by the will of my master, whom I had been fortunate enough to please. I hastened to Pompeii to see thee -- I found thee already aged and infirm, under the yoke of a capricious and pampered lord -- thou hadst lately adopted this new faith, and its adoption made thy slavery doubly painful to thee; it took away all the softening charm of custom, which reconciles us so often to the worst. Didst thou not complain to me that thou wert compelled to offices that were not odious to thee as a slave, but guilty as a Nazarene? Didst thou not tell me that thy soul shook with remorse when thou wert compelled to place even a crumb of cake before the Lares that watch over yon impluvium? that thy soul was torn by a perpetual struggle? Didst thou not tell me that even by pouring wine before the threshold, and calling on the name of some Grecian deity, thou didst fear thou wert incurring penalties worse than those of Tantalus, an eternity of tortures more terrible than those of the Tartarian fields? Didst thou not tell me this? I wondered, I could not comprehend; nor, by Hercules! can I now: but I was thy son, and my sole task was to compassionate and relieve. Could I hear thy groans, could I witness thy mysterious horrors, thy constant anguish, and remain inactive? No! by the immortal gods! the thought struck me like light from Olympus! I had no money, but I had strength and youth -- these were thy gifts -- I could sell these in my turn for thee! I learned the amount of thy ransom -- I learned that the usual prize of a victorious gladiator would doubly pay it. I became a gladiator -- I linked myself with those accursed men, scorning, loathing, while I joined -- I acquired their skill -- blessed be the lesson!-- it shall teach me to free my father
Oh, that thou couldst hear Olinthus
I will hear the whole world talk if thou wilt
but not till thou art a slave no more. Beneath thy own roof, my father, thou shalt puzzle this dull brain all day long, ay, and all night too, if it give thee pleasure. Oh, such a spot as I have chalked out for thee!-- it is one of the nine hundred and ninety-nine shops of old Julia Felix, in the sunny part of the city, where thou mayst bask before the door in the day -- and I will sell the oil and the wine for thee, my father -- and then, please Venus (or if it does not please her, since thou lovest not her name, it is all one to Lydon)-- then, I say, perhaps thou mayst have a daughter, too, to tend thy grey hairs, and hear shrill voices at thy knee, that shall call thee "Lydon's father!" Ah! we shall be so happy -- the prize can purchase all. Cheer thee! cheer up, my sire!-- And now I must away -- day wears -- the lanista waits me. Come! thy blessing
O bless thee! bless thee, my brave boy
and may the great Power that reads all hearts see the nobleness of thine, and forgive its error
May I enter
Is thy mistress Julia within
Have I not told thee
enter
Thanks
Put that pin rather more to the right -- lower -- stupid one! Do you not observe how even those beautiful eyebrows are?-- One would think you were dressing Corinna, whose face is all of one side. Now put in the flowers -- what, fool!-- not that dull pink -- you are not suiting colors to the dim cheek of Chloris: it must be the brightest flowers that can alone suit the cheek of the young Julia
Gently
you pull my hair as if you were plucking up a weed
Dull thing
Do you not know how delicate is your mistress?-- you are not dressing the coarse horsehair of the widow Fulvia. Now, then, the riband -- that's right. Fair Julia, look in the mirror; saw you ever anything so lovely as yourself
Salve, Julia
I have obeyed your commands
You have done well, flower-girl
Approach -- you may take a seat
You serve the Neapolitan, Ione
I am with her at present
Is she as handsome as they say
I know not
How can I judge
Ah! I should have remembered. But thou hast ears, if not eyes. Do thy fellow-slaves tell thee she is handsome? Slaves talking with one another forget to flatter even their mistress
They tell me that she is beautiful
Hem!-- say they that she is tall
Yes
Why, so am I. Dark haired
I have heard so
So am I. And doth Glaucus visit her much
Daily' returned Nydia, with a half-suppressed sigh. 'Daily, indeed! Does he find her handsome
I should think so, since they are so soon to be wedded
Wedded
They tell me thou art a Thessalian
And truly
Thessaly is the land of magic and of witches, of talismans and of love-philtres
It has ever been celebrated for its sorcerers
Knowest thou, then, blind Thessalian, of any love-charms
I
I! how should I? No, assuredly not
The worse for thee; I could have given thee gold enough to have purchased thy freedom hadst thou been more wise
But what
can induce the beautiful and wealthy Julia to ask that question of her servant? Has she not money, and youth, and loveliness? Are they not love-charms enough to dispense with magic
To all but one person in the world
but methinks thy blindness is infectious; and... But no matter
And that one person
Is not Glaucus
Glaucus -- no
But talking of Glaucus, and his attachment to this Neapolitan, reminded me of the influence of love-spells, which, for ought I know or care, she may have exercised upon him. Blind girl, I love, and -- shall Julia live to say it?-- am loved not in return! This humbles -- nay, not humbles -- but it stings my pride. I would see this ingrate at my feet -- not in order that I might raise, but that I might spurn him. When they told me thou wert Thessalian, I imagined thy young mind might have learned the dark secrets of thy clime
would it had
Thanks, at least, for that kindly wish
But tell me -- thou hearest the gossip of slaves, always prone to these dim beliefs; always ready to apply to sorcery for their own low loves -- hast thou ever heard of any Eastern magician in this city, who possesses the art of which thou art ignorant? No vain chiromancer, no juggler of the market-place, but some more potent and mighty magician of India or of Egypt
Of Egypt?-- yes
What Pompeian has not heard of Arbaces
Arbaces! true
They say he is a man above all the petty and false impostures of dull pretenders -- that he is versed in the learning of the stars, and the secrets of the ancient Nox; why not in the mysteries of love
If there be one magician living whose art is above that of others, it is that dread man
He is too wealthy to divine for money
Can I not visit him
It is an evil mansion for the young and the beautiful
I have heard, too, that he languishes in
An evil mansion
Why so
The orgies of his midnight leisure are impure and polluted -- at least, so says rumor
By Ceres, by Pan, and by Cybele! thou dost but provoke my curiosity, instead of exciting my fears
I will seek and question him of his lore. If to these orgies love be admitted -- why the more likely that he knows its secrets
I will seek him this very day
nay, why not this very hour
At daylight, and in his present state, thou hast assuredly the less to fear
And who dare insult the rich daughter of Diomed
I will go
May I visit thee afterwards to learn the result
Kiss me for thy interest in Julia's honour
Yes, assuredly. This eve we sup abroad -- come hither at the same hour to-morrow, and thou shalt know all: I may have to employ thee too; but enough for the present. Stay, take this bracelet for the new thought thou hast inspired me with; remember, if thou servest Julia, she is grateful and she is generous
I cannot take thy present
but young as I am, I can sympathize unbought with those who love -- and love in vain
Sayest thou so
Thou speakest like a free woman -- and thou shalt yet be free -- farewell
So, then
the storm of fate has broken and blown over -- the evil which my lore predicted, threatening life itself, has chanced -- and yet I live! It came as the stars foretold; and now the long, bright, and prosperous career which was to succeed that evil, if I survived it, smiles beyond: I have passed -- I have subdued the latest danger of my destiny. Now I have but to lay out the gardens of my future fate -- unterrified and secure. First, then, of all my pleasures, even before that of love, shall come revenge! This boy Greek -- who has crossed my passion -- thwarted my designs -- baffled me even when the blade was about to drink his accursed blood -- shall not a second time escape me! But for the method of my vengeance? Of that let me ponder well! Oh! Ate, if thou art indeed a goddess, fill me with thy direst Inspiration
A female
Is she young
Her face is concealed by her veil; but her form is slight, yet round, as that of youth
Admit her
Pardon me that I rise with pain
I am still suffering from recent illness
Do not disturb thyself, O great Egyptian
and forgive an unfortunate female, who seeks consolation from thy wisdom
Draw near, fair stranger
and speak without apprehension or reserve
And what
brings thee, O maiden! to the house of the Eastern stranger
His fame
In what
Canst thou ask, O wise Arbaces? Is not thy knowledge the very gossip theme of Pompeii
Some little lore have I indeed, treasured up
but in what can such serious and sterile secrets benefit the ear of beauty
Alas
does not sorrow fly to wisdom for relief, and they who love unrequitedly, are not they the chosen victims of grief
Ha
can unrequited love be the lot of so fair a form, whose modelled proportions are visible even beneath the folds of thy graceful robe? Deign, O maiden! to lift thy veil, that I may see at least if the face correspond in loveliness with the form
Thou comest to me for advice in unhappy love
well, turn that face on the ungrateful one: what other love-charm can I give thee
Oh, cease these courtesies
it is a love-charm, indeed, that I would ask from thy skill
Fair stranger
love-spells are not among the secrets I have wasted the midnight oil to attain
Is it indeed so? Then pardon me, great Arbaces, and farewell
Stay
Stay; although I confess that I have left the witchery of philtres and potions to those whose trade is in such knowledge, yet am I myself not so dull to beauty but that in earlier youth I may have employed them in my own behalf. I may give thee advice, at least, if thou wilt be candid with me. Tell me then, first, art thou unmarried, as thy dress betokens
Yes
And, being unblest with fortune, wouldst thou allure some wealthy suitor
I am richer than he who disdains me
Strange and more strange! And thou lovest him who loves not thee
I know not if I love him
but I know that I would see myself triumph over a rival -- I would see him who rejected me my suitor -- I would see her whom he has preferred in her turn despised
A natural ambition and a womanly
Yet more, fair maiden; wilt thou confide to me the name of thy lover? Can he be Pompeian, and despise wealth, even if blind to beauty
He is of Athens
Ha
there is but one Athenian, young and noble, in Pompeii. Can it be Glaucus of whom thou speakest
Ah! betray me not -- so indeed they call him
I see thou canst assist me not
guard at least my secret. Once more, farewell
Maiden
thy suit hath touched me -- I will minister to thy will. Listen to me; I have not myself dabbled in these lesser mysteries, but I know one who hath. At the base of Vesuvius, less than a league from the city, there dwells a powerful witch; beneath the rank dews of the new moon, she has gathered the herbs which possess the virtue to chain Love in eternal fetters. Her art can bring thy lover to thy feet. Seek her, and mention to her the name of Arbaces: she fears that name, and will give thee her most potent philtres
Alas
Were I but three days advanced in health
I myself would accompany thee. Well, thou must wait
But Glaucus is soon to wed that hated Neapolitan
Wed
Yes; in the early part of next month
So soon! Art thou well advised of this
From the lips of her own slave
It shall not be
Fear nothing, Glaucus shall be thine. Yet how, when thou obtainest it, canst thou administer to him this potion
My father has invited him, and, I believe, the Neapolitan also, to a banquet, on the day following to-morrow: I shall then have the opportunity to administer it
So be it
To-morrow eve, then, order thy litter -- thou hast one at thy command
Surely -- yes
Order thy litter -- at two miles' distance from the city is a house of entertainment, frequented by the wealthier Pompeians, from the excellence of its baths, and the beauty of its gardens. There canst thou pretend only to shape thy course -- there, ill or dying, I will meet thee by the statue of Silenus, in the copse that skirts the garden; and I myself will guide thee to the witch. Let us wait till, with the evening star, the goats of the herdsmen are gone to rest; when the dark twilight conceals us, and none shall cross our steps. Go home and fear not. By Hades, swears Arbaces, the sorcerer of Egypt, that Ione shall never wed with Glaucus
And that Glaucus shall be mine
Thou hast said it
Bright stars that never lie, ye already begin the execution of your promises -- success in love, and victory over foes, for the rest of my smooth existence. In the very hour when my mind could devise no clue to the goal of vengeance, have ye sent this fair fool for my guide
Yes
I could not myself have given to her the poison, that shall be indeed a philtre!-- his death might be thus tracked to my door. But the witch -- ay, there is the fit, the natural agent of my designs
It is like my vengeance
the sky is clear, but the cloud moves on
How beautiful
is that expression by which we call Earth our Mother! With what a kindly equal love she pours her blessings upon her children! and even to those sterile spots to which Nature has denied beauty, she yet contrives to dispense her smiles: witness the arbutus and the vine, which she wreathes over the arid and burning soil of yon extinct volcano. Ah! in such an hour and scene as this, well might we imagine that the Faun should peep forth from those green festoons; or, that we might trace the steps of the Mountain Nymph through the thickest mazes of the glade. But the Nymphs ceased, beautiful Ione, when thou wert created
Swifter, good Carrucarius
the tempest comes on apace
Dost thou fear
Not with thee
There is
a smith about a mile off; I could seek him, and he might fasten at least the wheel to the carruca -- but, Jupiter! how the rain beats; my mistress will be wet before I come back
Run thither at least
we must find the best shelter we can till you return
We are now
half-way up the ascent of Vesuvius; there ought to be some cavern, or hollow in the vine-clad rocks, could we but find it, in which the deserting Nymphs have left a shelter
That must come
from the hearth of some shepherd or vine-dresser -- it will guide us to some hospitable retreat. Wilt thou stay here, while I -- yet no -- that would be to leave thee to danger
I will go with you cheerfully
Open as the space seems, it is better than the treacherous shelter of these boughs
It is a dead thing
Nay -- it stirs -- it is a ghost or larva
Oh, away, away
it is the Witch of Vesuvius
Who are ye
And what do ye here
We are storm-beaten wanderers from the neighboring city
and decoyed hither by yon light; we crave shelter and the comfort of your hearth
Down, slave
Come to the fire if ye will
I never welcome living thing -- save the owl, the fox, the toad, and the viper -- so I cannot welcome ye; but come to the fire without welcome -- why stand upon form
We disturb you, I fear
Tell me
are ye brother and sister
No
Are ye married
Not so
Ho, lovers!-- ha!-- ha!-- ha
Why dost thou laugh, old crone
Did I laugh
She is in her dotage
Thou liest
Thou art an uncourteous welcomer
Hush! provoke her not, dear Glaucus
I will tell thee why I laughed when I discovered ye were lovers
It was because it is a pleasure to the old and withered to look upon young hearts like yours -- and to know the time will come when you will loathe each other -- loathe -- loathe -- ha!-- ha!-- ha
The gods forbid
Yet, poor woman, thou knowest little of love, or thou wouldst know that it never changes
Was I young once, think ye
and am I old, and hideous, and deathly now? Such as is the form, so is the heart
Hast thou dwelt here long
Ah, long!-- yes
It is but a drear abode
Ha! thou mayst well say that -- Hell is beneath us
And I will tell thee a secret -- the dim things below are preparing wrath for ye above -- you, the young, and the thoughtless, and the beautiful
Thou utterest but evil words, ill becoming the hospitable
and in future I will brave the tempest rather than thy welcome
Thou wilt do well. None should ever seek me -- save the wretched
And why the wretched
I am the witch of the mountain
Witch
command thy creature, or thou wilt see it dead
It has been despoiled of its venom
Thou hast
thou hast had shelter under my roof, and warmth at my hearth; thou hast returned evil for good; thou hast smitten and haply slain the thing that loved me and was mine: nay, more, the creature, above all others, consecrated to gods and deemed venerable by man,-- now hear thy punishment. By the moon, who is the guardian of the sorceress -- by Orcus, who is the treasurer of wrath -- I curse thee! and thou art cursed! May thy love be blasted -- may thy name be blackened -- may the infernals mark thee -- may thy heart wither and scorch -- may thy last hour recall to thee the prophet voice of the Saga of Vesuvius! And thou
Hag
forbear! Me thou hast cursed, and I commit myself to the gods -- I defy and scorn thee! but breathe but one word against yon maiden, and I will convert the oath on thy foul lips to thy dying groan. Beware
I have done
for in thy doom is she who loves thee accursed. And not the less, that I heard her lips breathe thy name, and know by what word to commend thee to the demons. Glaucus -- thou art doomed
O Glaucus
Away
away! The oath once woven the Fates only can untie. Away
Come, dearest
Thinkest thou that the gods above us or below hear the impotent ravings of dotage? Come
It is too late for egress
Not so
I am bound to the villa of Marcus Polybius. I shall return shortly. I am Arbaces the Egyptian
Arbaces, at this hour!-- scarce recovered too, methinks!-- Whither and for what can he leave the city
Alas
my soul feels still more and more the omen of evil. Preserve us, O ye Gods! or at least
preserve my Glaucus
Strange passions these for a philosopher
that lead one like me just new from the bed of death, and lapped even in health amidst the roses of luxury, across such nocturnal paths as this; but Passion and Vengeance treading to their goal can make an Elysium of a Tartarus
Down, slave
Rise, servant of Nox and Erebus
a superior in thine art salutes thee! rise, and welcome him
Who art thou
that callest thyself greater in art than the Saga of the Burning Fields, and the daughter of the perished Etrurian race
I am he
from whom all cultivators of magic, from north to south, from east to west, from the Ganges and the Nile to the vales of Thessaly and the shores of the yellow Tiber, have stooped to learn
There is but one such man in these places
whom the men of the outer world, unknowing his loftier attributes and more secret fame, call Arbaces the Egyptian: to us of a higher nature and deeper knowledge, his rightful appellation is Hermes of the Burning Girdle
I am he
I have seen, then
the Lord of the Mighty Girdle -- vouchsafe my homage
Rise
I have need of thee
Thou sayest
that thou art a daughter of the ancient Etrurian tribes; the mighty walls of whose rock-built cities yet frown above the robber race that hath seized upon their ancient reign. Partly came those tribes from Greece, partly were they exiles from a more burning and primeval soil. In either case art thou of Egyptian lineage, for the Grecian masters of the aboriginal helot were among the restless sons whom the Nile banished from her bosom. Equally, then, O Saga! thy descent is from ancestors that swore allegiance to mine own. By birth as by knowledge, art thou the subject of Arbaces. Hear me, then, and obey
Whatever art we possess in sorcery
we are sometimes driven to natural means to attain our object. The ring and the crystal, and the ashes and the herbs, do not give unerring divinations; neither do the higher mysteries of the moon yield even the possessor of the girdle a dispensation from the necessity of employing ever and anon human measures for a human object. Mark me, then: thou art deeply skilled, methinks, in the secrets of the more deadly herbs; thou knowest those which arrest life, which burn and scorch the soul from out her citadel, or freeze the channels of young blood into that ice which no sun can melt. Do I overrate thy skill? Speak, and truly
Mighty Hermes, such lore is, indeed, mine own. Deign to look at these ghostly and corpse-like features; they have waned from the hues of life merely by watching over the rank herbs which simmer night and day in yon cauldron
It is well
thou hast learned that maxim of all the deeper knowledge which saith, "Despise the body to make wise the mind." But to thy task. There cometh to thee by to-morrow's starlight a vain maiden, seeking of thine art a love-charm to fascinate from another the eyes that should utter but soft tales to her own: instead of thy philtres, give the maiden one of thy most powerful poisons. Let the lover breathe his vows to the Shades
Oh pardon! pardon! dread master
but this I dare not. The law in these cities is sharp and vigilant; they will seize, they will slay me
For what purpose, then, thy herbs and thy potions, vain Saga
Oh! years ago
I was not the thing that I am now. I loved, I fancied myself beloved
And what connection hath thy love, witch, with my commands
Patience
patience, I implore. I loved! another and less fair than I -- yes, by Nemesis! less fair -- allured from me my chosen. I was of that dark Etrurian tribe to whom most of all were known the secrets of the gloomier magic. My mother was herself a saga: she shared the resentment of her child; from her hands I received the potion that was to restore me his love; and from her, also, the poison that was to destroy my rival. Oh, crush me, dread walls! my trembling hands mistook the phials, my lover fell indeed at my feet; but dead! dead! dead! Since then, what has been life to me I became suddenly old, I devoted myself to the sorceries of my race; still by an irresistible impulse I curse myself with an awful penance; still I seek the most noxious herbs; still I concoct the poisons; still I imagine that I am to give them to my hated rival; still I pour them into the phial; still I fancy that they shall blast her beauty to the dust; still I wake and see the quivering body, the foaming lips, the glazing eyes of my Aulus -- murdered, and by me
And this foul thing has yet human emotions
still she cowers over the ashes of the same fire that consumes Arbaces!-- Such are we all! Mystic is the tie of those mortal passions that unite the greatest and the least
A grievous tale is thine, in truth
But these emotions are fit only for our youth -- age should harden our hearts to all things but ourselves; as every year adds a scale to the shell-fish, so should each year wall and incrust the heart. Think of those frenzies no more! And now, listen to me again! By the revenge that was dear to thee, I command thee to obey me! it is for vengeance that I seek thee! This youth whom I would sweep from my path has crossed me, despite my spells:-- this thing of purple and broidery, of smiles and glances, soulless and mindless, with no charm but that of beauty -- accursed be it!-- this insect -- this Glaucus -- I tell thee, by Orcus and by Nemesis, he must die
Glaucus! saidst thou, mighty master
Ay, so he is called; but what matters the name? Let it not be heard as that of a living man three days from this date
Hear me
Hear me! I am thy thing and thy slave! spare me! If I give to the maiden thou speakest of that which would destroy the life of Glaucus, I shall be surely detected -- the dead ever find avengers. Nay, dread man! if thy visit to me be tracked, if thy hatred to Glaucus be known, thou mayest have need of thy archest magic to protect thyself
Ha
But
if instead of that which shall arrest the heart, I give that which shall sear and blast the brain -- which shall make him who quaffs it unfit for the uses and career of life -- an abject, raving, benighted thing -- smiting sense to drivelling youth to dotage -- will not thy vengeance be equally sated -- thy object equally attained
Oh, witch! no longer the servant, but the sister -- the equal of Arbaces -- how much brighter is woman's wit, even in vengeance, than ours! how much more exquisite than death is such a doom
And
in this is but little danger; for by ten thousand methods, which men forbear to seek, can our victim become mad. He may have been among the vines and seen a nymph -- or the vine itself may have had the same effect -- ha, ha! they never inquire too scrupulously into these matters in which the gods may be agents. And let the worst arrive -- let it be known that it is a love-charm -- why, madness is a common effect of philtres; and even the fair she that gave it finds indulgence in the excuse. Mighty Hermes, have I ministered to thee cunningly
Thou shalt have twenty years' longer date for this
I will write anew the epoch of thy fate on the face of the pale stars -- thou shalt not serve in vain the Master of the Flaming Belt. And here, Saga, carve thee out, by these golden tools, a warmer cell in this dreary cavern -- one service to me shall countervail a thousand divinations by sieve and shears to the gaping rustics
Farewell
fail not -- outwatch the stars in concocting thy beverage -- thou shalt lord it over thy sisters at the Walnut-tree
I love to look at you
for when I see you I feel that I am indeed of power. And I am to have twenty years' longer life to increase your store! O thou great Hermes
The Shades are noisier than their wont
Strange
it is only within the last two days that dull, deep light hath been visible -- what can it portend
He called me dotard
when the jaws drop, and the grinders fall, and the heart scarce beats, it is a pitiable thing to dote; but when
the young, and the beautiful, and the strong, are suddenly smitten into idiocy -- ah, that is terrible! Burn, flame -- simmer herb -- swelter toad -- I cursed him, and he shall be cursed
AND you have the courage then, Julia, to seek the Witch of Vesuvius this evening; in company, too, with that fearful man
Why, Nydia
dost thou really think there is anything to dread? These old hags, with their enchanted mirrors, their trembling sieves, and their moon-gathered herbs, are, I imagine, but crafty impostors, who have learned, perhaps, nothing but the very charm for which I apply to their skill, and which is drawn but from the knowledge of the field's herbs and simples. Wherefore should I dread
Dost thou not fear thy companion
What, Arbaces? By Dian, I never saw lover more courteous than that same magician! And were he not so dark, he would be even handsome
Let me go with thee, noble Julia
my presence is no protection, but I should like to be beside thee to the last
Thine offer pleases me much
Yet how canst thou contrive it? we may not return until late, they will miss thee
Ione is indulgent
If thou wilt permit me to sleep beneath thy roof, I will say that thou, an early patroness and friend, hast invited me to pass the day with thee, and sing thee my Thessalian songs; her courtesy will readily grant to thee so light a boon
Nay, ask for thyself
I stoop to request no favor from the Neapolitan
Well, be it so. I will take my leave now; make my request, which I know will be readily granted, and return shortly
Do so; and thy bed shall be prepared in my own chamber
Blooming as thine own roses, my gentle Nydia! and how is thy fair mistress?-- recovered, I trust, from the effects of the storm
I have not seen her this morning
but
But what? draw back -- the horses are too near thee
But think you Ione will permit me to pass the day with Julia, the daughter of Diomed?-- She wishes it, and was kind to me when I had few friends
The gods bless thy grateful heart! I will answer for Ione's permission
Then I may stay over the night, and return to-morrow
As thou and fair Julia please. Commend me to her; and hark ye, Nydia, when thou hearest her speak, note the contrast of her voice with that of the silver-toned Ione. Vale
Methinks, by this dim light
I recognize the slaves of Diomed
True, Clodius
it is probably the litter of his daughter Julia. She is rich, my friend; why dost thou not proffer thy suit to her
Why, I had once hoped that Glaucus would have married her. She does not disguise her attachment; and then, as he gambles freely and with ill-success
The sesterces would have passed to thee, wise Clodius. A wife is a good thing -- when it belongs to another man
But
as Glaucus is, I understand, to wed the Neapolitan, I think I must even try my chance with the dejected maid. After all, the lamp of Hymen will be gilt, and the vessel will reconcile one to the odor of the flame. I shall only protest, my Sallust, against Diomed's making thee trustee to his daughter's fortune
Ha! ha! let us within, my comissator; the wine and the garlands wait us
She comes by appointment, be sure
What is that to thee
she pays for the baths, and does not waste the saffron. Such appointments are the best part of the trade. Hark! do you not hear the widow Fulvia clapping her hands? Run, fool -- run
I see not the magician
Salve, sweet maiden!-- But ha! whom hast thou here? we must have no companions
It is but the blind flower-girl, wise magician
herself a Thessalian
Oh! Nydia
I know her well
Thou hast been at my house, methinks
thou knowest the oath!-- Silence and secrecy, now as then, or beware
Yet
why confide more than is necessary, even in the blind -- Julia, canst thou trust thyself alone with me? Believe me, the magician is less formidable than he seems
The witch loves not many visitors at once
leave Nydia here till your return; she can be of no assistance to us: and, for protection -- your own beauty suffices -- your own beauty and your own rank; yes, Julia, I know thy name and birth. Come, trust thyself with me, fair rival of the youngest of the Naiads
Oh, thanked be the immortal gods
I have returned, I have left that terrible cavern! Come, Nydia! let us away forthwith
Oh
such a scene! such fearful incantations! and the dead face of the hag!-- But, let us talk not of it. I have obtained the potion -- she pledges its effect. My rival shall be suddenly indifferent to his eye, and I, I alone, the idol of Glaucus
Glaucus
Ay! I told thee, girl, at first, that it was not the Athenian whom I loved: but I see now that I may trust thee wholly -- it is the beautiful Greek
Drink, Nydia, thou must be cold, the air was chill to-night; as for me, my veins are yet ice
Thou hast the potion
let me hold it in my hands. How small the phial is! of what color is the draught
Clear as crystal
thou couldst not tell it from this water. The witch assures me it is tasteless. Small though the phial, it suffices for a life's fidelity: it is to be poured into any liquid; and Glaucus will only know what he has quaffed by the effect
Exactly like this water in appearance
Yes, sparkling and colorless as this. How bright it seems! it is as the very essence of moonlit dews. Bright thing! how thou shinest on my hopes through thy crystal vase
And how is it sealed
But by one little stopper -- I withdraw it now -- the draught gives no odor. Strange, that that which speaks to neither sense should thus command all
Is the effect instantaneous
Usually -- but sometimes it remains dormant for a few hours
Oh, how sweet is this perfume
Thinkest thou so? the bottle is set with gems of some value. Thou wouldst not have the bracelet yestermorn -- wilt thou take the bottle
It ought to be such perfumes as these that should remind one who cannot see of the generous Julia. If the bottle be not too costly
Oh! I have a thousand costlier ones: take it, child
And the draught would be equally efficacious, whoever administers it
If the most hideous hag beneath the sun bestowed it, such is its asserted virtue that Glaucus would deem her beautiful, and none but her
I will not suffer this holy draught to quit my presence till the hour comes for its use. Lie under my pillow, bright spirit, and give me happy dreams
Why dost thou drink that unmixed water, Nydia? Take the wine by its side
I am fevered
and the water cools me. I will place this bottle by my bedside, it refreshes in these summer nights, when the dews of sleep fall not on our lips. Fair Julia, I must leave thee very early -- so Ione bids -- perhaps before thou art awake; accept, therefore, now my congratulations
Thanks: when next we meet you may find Glaucus at my feet
Now befriend me, Venus
Glaucus
all the love-charms of the wildest magic could not make thee love me as I love thee. Ione!-- ah; away hesitation! away remorse! Glaucus, my fate is in thy smile; and thine! hope! O joy! O transport, thy fate is in these hands!' 

BOOK THE FOURTH
At the next solemn consultation of the oracle
advance yourself to the railing, proclaim aloud to the people the deception they endure, invite them to enter, to be themselves the witness of the gross but artful mechanism of imposture thou hast described to me. Fear not -- the Lord, who protected Daniel, shall protect thee; we, the community of Christians, will be amongst the crowd; we will urge on the shrinking: and in the first flush of the popular indignation and shame, I myself, upon those very altars, will plant the palm-branch typical of the Gospel -- and to my tongue shall descend the rushing Spirit of the living God
I have tracked you with some effect, my brother flamen
you, the priest of Isis, have not for mere idle discussion conferred with this gloomy Christian. Alas! that I could not hear all your precious plot: enough! I find, at least, that you meditate revealing the sacred mysteries, and that to-morrow you meet again at this place to plan the how and the when. May Osiris sharpen my ears then, to detect the whole of your unheard-of audacity! When I have learned more, I must confer at once with Arbaces. We will frustrate you, my friends, deep as you think yourselves. At present, my breast is a locked treasury of your secret
Oh! oh
that cursed Congrio hath invited a whole legion of cooks to assist him. They won't serve for nothing, and this is another item in the total of my day's expenses. By Bacchus! thrice lucky shall I be if the slaves do not help themselves to some of the drinking vessels: ready, alas, are their hands, capacious are their tunics. Me miserum
Ho, Euclio, your egg-pan! What, is this the largest? it only holds thirty-three eggs: in the houses I usually serve, the smallest egg-pan holds fifty, if need be
The unconscionable rogue
he talks of eggs as if they were a sesterce a hundred
By Mercury
whoever saw such antique sweetmeat shapes as these?-- It is impossible to do credit to one's art with such rude materials. Why, Sallust's commonest sweetmeat shape represents the whole siege of Troy; Hector and Paris, and Helen... with little Astyanax and the Wooden Horse into the bargain
Silence, fool
My master, Diomed, is not one of those expensive good-for-noughts, who must have the last fashion, cost what it will
Thou liest, base slave
Man of three letters
how didst thou dare to invite all those rascals into my house?-- I see thief written in every line of their faces
Yet, I assure you, master, that they are men of most respectable character -- the best cooks of the place; it is a great favor to get them. But for my sake
Thy sake, unhappy Congrio
Nay, master, do not impeach my honesty! May the gods desert me if
Swear not
for then the gods will smite thee for a perjurer, and I shall lose my cook on the eve of dinner. But, enough of this at present: keep a sharp eye on thy ill-favored assistants, and tell me no tales to-morrow of vases broken, and cups miraculously vanished, or thy whole back shall be one pain. And hark thee! thou knowest thou hast made me pay for those Phrygian attagens enough, by Hercules, to have feasted a sober man for a year together -- see that they be not one iota over-roasted. The last time, O Congrio, that I gave a banquet to my friends, when thy vanity did so boldly undertake the becoming appearance of a Melian crane -- thou knowest it came up like a stone from AEtna -- as if all the fires of Phlegethon had been scorching out its juices. Be modest this time, Congrio -- wary and modest. Modesty is the nurse of great actions; and in all other things, as in this, if thou wilt not spare thy master's purse, at least consult thy master's glory
There shall not be such a coena seen at Pompeii since the days of Hercules
Softly, softly -- thy cursed boasting again! But I say, Congrio, yon homunculus -- yon pigmy assailant of my cranes -- yon pert-tongued neophyte of the kitchen, was there aught but insolence on his tongue when he maligned the comeliness of my sweetmeat shapes? I would not be out of the fashion, Congrio
It is but the custom of us cooks
That will suffice
Now, resume thy charge -- shine ---- eclipse thyself. Let men envy Diomed his cook -- let the slaves of Pompeii style thee Congrio the great! Go! yet stay -- thou hast not spent all the moneys I gave thee for the marketing
All!" alas! the nightingales' tongues and the Roman tomacula, and the oysters from Britain, and sundry other things, too numerous now to recite, are yet left unpaid for. But what matter? every one trusts the Archimagirus of Diomed the wealthy
Oh, unconscionable prodigal!-- what waste!-- what profusion!-- I am ruined! But go, hasten -- inspect!-- taste!-- perform!-- surpass thyself! Let the Roman senator not despise the poor Pompeian. Away, slave -- and remember, the Phrygian attagens
Where is my daughter Julia
At the bath
Ah! that reminds me!-- time wanes!-- and I must bathe also
the solemn plausibilities of custom
Salve, Apaecides
Thou art late abroad; has the goddess revealed herself to thee in visions
Could she reveal her true self to the people, Calenus, how incenseless would be these altars
That
may possibly be true; but the deity is wise enough to hold commune with none but priests
A time may come when she will be unveiled without her own acquiescence
It is not likely: she has triumphed for countless ages. And that which has so long stood the test of time rarely succumbs to the lust of novelty. But hark ye, young brother! these sayings are indiscreet
It is not for thee to silence them
So hot!-- yet I will not quarrel with thee. Why, my Apaecides, has not the Egyptian convinced thee of the necessity of our dwelling together in unity? Has he not convinced thee of the wisdom of deluding the people and enjoying ourselves? If not, oh, brother! he is not that great magician he is esteemed
Thou, then, hast shared his lessons
Ay! but I stood less in need of them than thou. Nature had already gifted me with the love of pleasure, and the desire of gain and power. Long is the way that leads the voluptuary to the severities of life; but it is only one step from pleasant sin to sheltering hypocrisy. Beware the vengeance of the goddess, if the shortness of that step be disclosed
Beware, thou, the hour when the tomb shall be rent and the rottenness exposed
Vale
This is kind, Apaecides
and how eagerly have I wished to see thee!-- what thanks do I not owe thee? How churlish hast thou been to answer none of my letters -- to abstain from coming hither to receive the expressions of my gratitude! Oh! thou hast assisted to preserve thy sister from dishonour! What, what can she say to thank thee, now thou art come at last
My sweet Ione, thou owest me no gratitude, for thy cause was mine. Let us avoid that subject, let us recur not to that impious man -- how hateful to both of us! I may have a speedy opportunity to teach the world the nature of his pretended wisdom and hypocritical severity. But let us sit down, my sister; I am wearied with the heat of the sun; let us sit in yonder shade, and, for a little while longer, be to each other what we have been
Ione, my sister
place your hand upon my brow; let me feel your cool touch. Speak to me, too, for your gentle voice is like a breeze that hath freshness as well as music. Speak to me, but forbear to bless me! Utter not one word of those forms of speech which our childhood was taught to consider sacred
Alas! and what then shall I say? Our language of affection is so woven with that of worship, that the words grow chilled and trite if I banish from them allusion to our gods
Our gods
thou slightest my request already
Shall I speak then to thee only of Isis
The Evil Spirit! No, rather be dumb for ever, unless at least thou canst -- but away, away this talk! Not now will we dispute and cavil; not now will we judge harshly of each other. Thou, regarding me as an apostate! and I all sorrow and shame for thee as an idolater. No, my sister, let us avoid such topics and such thoughts. In thy sweet presence a calm falls over my spirit. For a little while I forget. As I thus lay my temples on thy bosom, as I thus feel thy gentle arm embrace me, I think that we are children once more, and that the heaven smiles equally upon both. For oh! if hereafter I escape, no matter what peril; and it be permitted me to address thee on one sacred and awful subject; should I find thine ear closed and thy heart hardened, what hope for myself could countervail the despair for thee? In thee, my sister, I behold a likeness made beautiful, made noble, of myself. Shall the mirror live for ever, and the form itself be broken as the potter's clay? Ah, no -- no -- thou wilt listen to me yet! Dost thou remember how we went into the fields by Baiae, hand in hand together, to pluck the flowers of spring? Even so, hand in hand, shall we enter the Eternal Garden, and crown ourselves with imperishable asphodel
I will talk to thee then of our early years
Shall yon blind girl sing to thee of the days of childhood? Her voice is sweet and musical, and she hath a song on that theme which contains none of those allusions it pains thee to hear
Dost thou remember the words, my sister
Methinks yes; for the tune, which is simple, fixed them on my memory
Sing to me then thyself. My ear is not in unison with unfamiliar voices; and thine, Ione, full of household associations, has ever been to me more sweet than all the hireling melodies of Lycia or of Crete. Sing to me
Ione
should you hear my name blackened and maligned, will you credit the aspersion
Never, my brother, never
Dost thou not imagine, according to thy belief, that the evil-doer is punished hereafter, and the good rewarded
Can you doubt it
Dost thou think, then, that he who is truly good should sacrifice every selfish interest in his zeal for virtue
He who doth so is the equal of the gods
And thou believest that, according to the purity and courage with which he thus acts, shall be his portion of bliss beyond the grave
So we are taught to hope
Kiss me, my sister. One question more. Thou art to be wedded to Glaucus: perchance that marriage may separate us more hopelessly -- but not of this speak I now -- thou art to be married to Glaucus -- dost thou love him? Nay, my sister, answer me by words
Yes
Dost thou feel that, for his sake, thou couldst renounce pride, brave dishonour, and incur death? I have heard that when women really love, it is to that excess
My brother, all this could I do for Glaucus, and feel that it were not a sacrifice. There is no sacrifice to those who love, in what is borne for the one we love
Enough! shall woman feel thus for man, and man feel less devotion to his God
This is a vulgar old fellow, this Diomed
but he has some good qualities -- in his cellar
And some charming ones -- in his daughter
True, Glaucus: but you are not much moved by them, methinks. I fancy Clodius is desirous to be your successor
He is welcome. At the banquet of Julia's beauty, no guest, be sure, is considered a musca
You are severe: but she has, indeed, something of the Corinthian about her -- they will be well matched, after all! What good-natured fellows we are to associate with that gambling good-for-nought
Pleasure unites strange varieties
He amuses me
And flatters -- but then he pays himself well! He powders his praise with gold-dust
You often hint that he plays unfairly -- think you so really
My dear Glaucus, a Roman noble has his dignity to keep up -- dignity is very expensive -- Clodius must cheat like a scoundrel, in order to live like a gentleman
Ha ha!-- well, of late I have renounced the dice. Ah! Sallust, when I am wedded to Ione, I trust I may yet redeem a youth of follies. We are both born for better things than those in which we sympathize now -- born to render our worship in nobler temples than the stye of Epicurus
Alas
what do we know more than this -- life is short -- beyond the grave all is dark? There is no wisdom like that which says "enjoy
By Bacchus! I doubt sometimes if we do enjoy the utmost of which life is capable
I am a moderate man
and do not ask "the utmost". We are like malefactors, and intoxicate ourselves with wine and myrrh, as we stand on the brink of death; but, if we did not do so, the abyss would look very disagreeable. I own that I was inclined to be gloomy until I took so heartily to drinking -- that is a new life, my Glaucus
Yes! but it brings us next morning to a new death
Why, the next morning is unpleasant, I own; but, then, if it were not so, one would never be inclined to read. I study betimes -- because, by the gods! I am generally unfit for anything else till noon
Fie, Scythian
Pshaw! the fate of Pentheus to him who denies Bacchus
Well, Sallust, with all your faults, you are the best profligate I ever met: and verily, if I were in danger of life, you are the only man in all Italy who would stretch out a finger to save me
Perhaps I should not, if it were in the middle of supper. But, in truth, we Italians are fearfully selfish
So are all men who are not free
Freedom alone makes men sacrifice to each other
Freedom, then, must be a very fatiguing thing to an Epicurean
But here we are at our host's
You will see, my friend
that I am a little classical here -- a little Cecropian -- eh? The hall in which we shall sup is borrowed from the Greeks. It is an OEcus Cyzicene. Noble Sallust, they have not, I am told, this sort of apartment in Rome
Oh
you Pompeians combine all that is most eligible in Greece and in Rome; may you, Diomed, combine the viands as well as the architecture
You shall see -- you shall see, my Sallust
We have a taste at Pompeii, and we have also money
They are two excellent things
But, behold, the lady Julia
A beautiful statue this of Bacchus
A mere trifle
What charming paintings
Mere trifles
Exquisite candelabra
Exquisite
Trifles! trifles
Is it an Athenian virtue, Glaucus
to shun those whom we once sought
Fair Julia -- no
Yet methinks, it is one of the qualities of Glaucus
Glaucus never shuns a friend
May Julia rank among the number of his friends
It would be an honour to the emperor to find a friend in one so lovely
You evade my question
But tell me, is it true that you admire the Neapolitan Ione
Does not beauty constrain our admiration
Ah! subtle Greek, still do you fly the meaning of my words. But say, shall Julia be indeed your friend
If she will so favor me, blessed be the gods! The day in which I am thus honored shall be ever marked in white
Yet, even while you speak, your eye is resting -- your color comes and goes -- you move away involuntarily -- you are impatient to join Ione
Can admiration to one woman make me unworthy the friendship of another? Sanction not so, O Julia the libels of the poets on your sex
Well, you are right -- or I will learn to think so. Glaucus, yet one moment! You are to wed Ione; is it not so
If the Fates permit, such is my blessed hope
Accept, then, from me, in token of our new friendship, a present for your bride. Nay, it is the custom of friends, you know, always to present to bride and bridegroom some such little marks of their esteem and favoring wishes
Julia! I cannot refuse any token of friendship from one like you. I will accept the gift as an omen from Fortune herself
Then, after the feast, when the guests retire, you will descend with me to my apartment, and receive it from my hands. Remember
O Fulvia! I assure you that the last account from Rome declares that the frizzling mode of dressing the hair is growing antiquated; they only now wear it built up in a tower, like Julia's, or arranged as a helmet -- the Galerian fashion, like mine, you see: it has a fine effect, I think. I assure you, Vespius (Vespius was the name of the Herculaneum hero) admires it greatly
And nobody wears the hair like yon Neapolitan, in the Greek way
What, parted in front, with the knot behind? Oh, no; how ridiculous it is! it reminds one of the statue of Diana! Yet this Ione is handsome, eh
So the men say; but then she is rich: she is to marry the Athenian -- I wish her joy. He will not be long faithful, I suspect; those foreigners are very faithless
Oh, Julia
have you seen the tiger yet
No
Why, all the ladies have been to see him. He is so handsome
I hope we shall find some criminal or other for him and the lion
Your husband (turning to Pansa's wife) is not so active as he should be in this matter
Why, really, the laws are too mild
There are so few offences to which the punishment of the arena can be awarded; and then, too, the gladiators are growing effeminate! The stoutest bestiarii declare they are willing enough to fight a boar or a bull; but as for a lion or a tiger, they think the game too much in earnest
They are worthy of a mitre
Oh! have you seen the new house of Fulvius, the dear poet
No: is it handsome
Very!-- such good taste. But they say, my dear, that he has such improper pictures! He won't show them to the women: how ill-bred
Those poets are always odd
But he is an interesting man; what pretty verses he writes! We improve very much in poetry: it is impossible to read the old stuff now
I declare I am of your opinion, returned the lady of the helmet. 'There is so much more force and energy in the modern school
It reconciles me to peace
when I see such faces
Oh! you heroes are ever flatterers
By this chain, which I received from the emperor's own hand
By this chain, you wrong me! I am a blunt man -- a soldier should be so
How do you find the ladies of Pompeii generally
By Venus, most beautiful! They favor me a little, it is true, and that inclines my eyes to double their charms
We love a warrior
I see it: by Hercules! it is even disagreeable to be too celebrated in these cities. At Herculaneum they climb the roof of my atrium to catch a glimpse of me through the compluvium; the admiration of one's citizens is pleasant at first, but burthensome afterwards
True, true, O Vespius
I find it so myself
You
In what legion have you served
You may see my spoils, my exuviae, in the forum itself
I have been among the tent-companions, the contubernales, of the great Mantuan himself
What campaign have you served
That of Helicon
I never heard of it
Nay, Vespius, he does but joke
Joke! By Mars, am I a man to be joked
Yes; Mars himself was in love with the mother of jokes
Know, then, O Vespius! that I am the poet Fulvius. It is I who make warriors immortal
The gods forbid
If Vespius were made immortal, what a specimen of tiresome braggadocio would be transmitted to posterity
I shall be a merciful king
to those who drink deep; to a recusant, Minos himself shall be less inexorable. Beware
How soon shall her place be mine
Pardon me, O senator
I see you flinch; your purple hem cannot save you -- drink
By the gods
my lungs are already on fire; you proceed with so miraculous a swiftness, that Phaeton himself was nothing to you. I am infirm, O pleasant Sallust: you must exonerate me
Not I, by Vesta! I am an impartial monarch -- drink
Gently! gently! my king
we already begin to
Treason
no stern Brutus here!-- no interference with royalty
But our female guests
Love a toper! Did not Ariadne dote upon Bacchus
It is a pretty song
Ah! if you would oblige us
Do you wish Fulvius to sing
Can you ask
Alas! I cannot play
Then you must sing to the myrtle. It is a Greek fashion: Diomed loves the Greeks -- I love the Greeks -- you love the Greeks -- we all love the Greeks -- and between you and me this is not the only thing we have stolen from them. However, I introduce this custom -- I, the king: sing, subject, sing
Long live
our King and Queen
Tarry yet a moment, my friends
if you will go so soon, you must at least take a share in our concluding game
Sweet Neapolitan
I accept the omen. It signifies that in obtaining thee, Fortune can give no more -- she breaks her image when she blesses me with thine
Glaucus
I see that you really love Ione -- she is indeed beautiful
Julia is charming enough to be generous
Yes, I love Ione; amidst all the youth who court you, may you have one worshipper as sincere
I pray the gods to grant it! See, Glaucus, these pearls are the present I destine to your bride: may Juno give her health to wear them
You have drunk many toasts with my father
one now with me. Health and fortune to your bride
But to-morrow
to-morrow, alas for Glaucus
Be still, poor friend
the stranger's step harms not thy master
Thou art provided as for a journey, father
wilt thou leave us yet
My son
the days in store for me on earth are few and scanty; I employ them as becomes me travelling from place to place, comforting those whom God has gathered together in His name, and proclaiming the glory of His Son, as testified to His servant
Thou hast looked, they tell me, on the face of Christ
And the face revived me from the dead. Know, young proselyte to the true faith, that I am he of whom thou readest in the scroll of the Apostle. In the far Judea, and in the city of Nain, there dwelt a widow, humble of spirit and sad of heart; for of all the ties of life one son alone was spared to her. And she loved him with a melancholy love, for he was the likeness of the lost. And the son died. The reed on which she leaned was broken, the oil was dried up in the widow's cruse. They bore the dead upon his bier; and near the gate of the city, where the crowd were gathered, there came a silence over the sounds of woe, for the Son of God was passing by. The mother, who followed the bier, wept -- not noisily, but all who looked upon her saw that her heart was crushed. And the Lord pitied her, and he touched the bier, and said, "I SAY UNTO THEE, ARISE," And the dead man woke and looked upon the face of the Lord. Oh, that calm and solemn brow, that unutterable smile, that careworn and sorrowful face, lighted up with a God's benignity -- it chased away the shadows of the grave! I rose, I spoke, I was living, and in my mother's arms -- yes, I am the dead revived! The people shouted, the funeral horns rung forth merrily: there was a cry, "God has visited His people!" I heard them not -- I felt -- I saw -- nothing but the face of the Redeemer
Till that time
But who shall tell the terrors of the night
From that night I resigned all earthly thought but that of serving HIM. A preacher and a pilgrim, I have traversed the remotest corners of the earth, proclaiming His Divinity, and bringing new converts to His fold. I come as the wind, and as the wind depart; sowing, as the wind sows, the seeds that enrich the world. 'Son, on earth we shall meet no more. Forget not this hour,-- what are the pleasures and the pomps of life? As the lamp shines, so life glitters for an hour; but the soul's light is the star that burns for ever, in the heart of inimitable space
And now
now, in the cool of twilight, I pursue my way towards the Imperial Rome. There yet dwell some holy men, who like me have beheld the face of Christ; and them would I see before I die
But the night is chill for thine age, my father, and the way is long, and the robber haunts it; rest thee till to-morrow
Kind son, what is there in this scrip to tempt the robber? And the Night and the Solitude!-- these make the ladder round which angels cluster, and beneath which my spirit can dream of God. Oh! none can know what the pilgrim feels as he walks on his holy course; nursing no fear, and dreading no danger -- for God is with him! He hears the winds murmur glad tidings; the woods sleep in the shadow of Almighty wings -- the stars are the Scriptures of Heaven, the tokens of love, and the witnesses of immortality. Night is the Pilgrim's day
Ho, my child, wait you for me
Nay, I have been tending the flowers, and did but linger a little while to rest myself
It has been warm
Very
Wilt thou summon Davus? The wine I have drunk heats me, and I long for some cooling drink
I will prepare for you myself
the summer draught that Ione loves -- of honey and weak wine cooled in snow
Thanks
If Ione love it, enough; it would be grateful were it poison
Why, Nydia! Nydia! I say, art thou ill or in pain? Nay, thy face speaks for thee. What ails my poor child
Oh, speak to me! speak! you do not hate me?-- speak, speak
By the bright goddess, a beautiful land this Cyprus! Ho! how they fill us with wine instead of blood! now they open the veins of the Faun yonder, to show how the tide within bubbles and sparkles. Come hither, jolly old god! thou ridest on a goat, eh?-- what long silky hair he has! He is worth all the coursers of Parthia. But a word with thee -- this wine of thine is too strong for us mortals. Oh! beautiful! the boughs are at rest! the green waves of the forest have caught the Zephyr and drowned him! Not a breath stirs the leaves -- and I view the Dreams sleeping with folded wings upon the motionless elm; and I look beyond, and I see a blue stream sparkle in the silent noon; a fountain -- a fountain springing aloft! Ah! my fount, thou wilt not put out rays of my Grecian sun, though thou triest ever so hard with thy nimble and silver arms. And now, what form steals yonder through the boughs? she glides like a moonbeam!-- she has a garland of oak-leaves on her head. In her hand is a vase upturned, from which she pours pink and tiny shells and sparkling water. Oh! look on yon face! Man never before saw its like. See! we are alone; only I and she in the wide forest. There is no smile upon her lips -- she moves, grave and sweetly sad. Ha! fly, it is a nymph!-- it is one of the wild Napaeae! Whoever sees her becomes mad-fly! see, she discovers me
Oh! Glaucus! Glaucus! do you not know me? Rave not so wildly, or thou wilt kill me with a word
I swear by Venus, by Diana, and by Juno, that though I have now the world on my shoulders, as my countryman Hercules (ah, dull Rome! whoever was truly great was of Greece; why, you would be godless if it were not for us!)-- I say, as my countryman Hercules had before me, I would let it fall into chaos for one smile from Ione. Ah, Beautiful,-- Adored
thou lovest me not. Thou art unkind to me. The Egyptian hath belied me to thee -- thou knowest not what hours I have spent beneath thy casement -- thou knowest not how I have outwatched the stars, thinking thou, my sun, wouldst rise at last -- and thou lovest me not, thou forsakest me! Oh! do not leave me now! I feel that my life will not be long; let me gaze on thee at least unto the last. I am of the bright land of thy fathers -- I have trod the heights of Phyle -- I have gathered the hyacinth and rose amidst the olive-groves of Ilyssus. Thou shouldst not desert me, for thy fathers were brothers to my own. And they say this land is lovely, and these climes serene, but I will bear thee with me -- Ho! dark form, why risest thou like a cloud between me and mine? Death sits calmly dread upon thy brow -- on thy lip is the smile that slays: thy name is Orcus, but on earth men call thee Arbaces. See, I know thee! fly, dim shadow, thy spells avail not
Glaucus! Glaucus
Who calls
Ione, it is she! they have borne her off -- we will save her -- where is my stilus? Ha, I have it! I come, Ione, to thy rescue! I come! I come
Hem! Apaecides
when last we met, you were my foe. I have wished since then to see you, for I would have you still my pupil and my friend
Villain and impostor
thou hast recovered then from the jaws of the grave! But think not again to weave around me thy guilty meshes. Retiarius, I am armed against thee
Hush
Hush! more low! thou mayest be overheard, and if other ears than mine had drunk those sounds -- why
Dost thou threaten?-- what if the whole city had heard me
The manes of my ancestors would not have suffered me to forgive thee. But, hold, and hear me. Thou art enraged that I would have offered violence to thy sister. Nay, peace, peace, but one instant, I pray thee. Thou art right; it was the frenzy of passion and of jealousy -- I have repented bitterly of my madness. Forgive me; I, who never implored pardon of living man, beseech thee now to forgive me. Nay, I will atone the insult -- I ask thy sister in marriage -- start not -- consider -- what is the alliance of yon holiday Greek compared to mine? Wealth unbounded -- birth that in its far antiquity leaves your Greek and Roman names the things of yesterday -- science -- but that thou knowest! Give me thy sister, and my whole life shall atone a moment's error
Egyptian, were even I to consent, my sister loathes the very air thou breathest: but I have my own wrongs to forgive -- I may pardon thee that thou hast made me a tool to thy deceits, but never that thou hast seduced me to become the abettor of thy vices -- a polluted and a perjured man. Tremble!-- even now I prepare the hour in which thou and thy false gods shall be unveiled. Thy lewd and Circean life shall be dragged to day -- thy mumming oracles disclosed -- the fane of the idol Isis shall be a byword and a scorn -- the name of Arbaces a mark for the hisses of execration! Tremble
Apaecides
beware! What is it thou wouldst meditate? Speakest thou -- reflect, pause before thou repliest -- from the hasty influences of wrath, as yet divining no settled purpose, or from some fixed design
I speak from the inspiration of the True God, whose servant I now am
and in the knowledge that by His grace human courage has already fixed the date of thy hypocrisy and thy demon's worship; ere thrice the sun has dawned, thou wilt know all! Dark sorcerer, tremble, and farewell
Die, then, in thy rashness
away, obstacle to my rushing fates
Ha
so, then, the hell-draught works, and destiny hath sent thee hither to crush two of my foes at once
What ho! Endymion, sleepest thou so soundly? What has the moon said to thee? Thou makest me jealous; it is time to wake
Ho, citizens -- oh! help me!-- run hither -- hither!-- A murder -- a murder before your very fane! Help, or the murderer escapes
Poor clay!-- poor human reason; where is the soul now? I could spare thee, O my rival -- rival never more! But destiny must be obeyed -- my safety demands thy sacrifice
Lift up yon corpse
and guard well the murderer
Glaucus
is it even credible
I would sooner
believe it to be the Egyptian himself
How! blood spilt! who the murderer
He!-- by Mars, he has rather the air of being the victim! 'Who accuses him
I
Pardon me -- your name
Arbaces; it is well known methinks in Pompeii. Passing through the grove, I beheld before me the Greek and the priest in earnest conversation. I was struck by the reeling motions of the first, his violent gestures, and the loudness of his voice; he seemed to me either drunk or mad. Suddenly I saw him raise his stilus -- I darted forward -- too late to arrest the blow. He had twice stabbed his victim, and was bending over him, when, in my horror and indignation, I struck the murderer to the ground. He fell without a struggle, which makes me yet more suspect that he was not altogether in his senses when the crime was perpetrated; for, recently recovered from a severe illness, my blow was comparatively feeble, and the frame of Glaucus, as you see, is strong and youthful
His eyes are open now -- his lips move
Speak, prisoner, what sayest thou to the charge
The charge -- ha -- ha! Why, it was merrily done; when the old hag set her serpent at me, and Hecate stood by laughing from ear to ear -- what could I do? But I am ill -- I faint -- the serpent's fiery tongue hath bitten me. Bear me to bed, and send for your physician; old AEsculapius himself will attend me if you let him know that I am Greek. Oh, mercy -- mercy! I burn!-- marrow and brain, I burn
He raves
and in his delirium he has struck the priest. Hath any one present seen him to-day
I
beheld him in the morning. He passed my shop and accosted me. He seemed well and sane as the stoutest of us
And I saw him half an hour ago
passing up the streets, muttering to himself with strange gestures, and just as the Egyptian has described
A corroboration of the witness! it must be too true. He must at all events to the praetor; a pity, so young and so rich! But the crime is dreadful: a priest of Isis, in his very robes, too, and at the base itself of our most ancient chapel
No wonder the earth has quaked
when it held such a monster
Away with him to prison -- away
True -- true -- it chances in season for the games
Bring hither some planks -- or if at hand, a litter -- to bear the dead
a priest of Isis ought scarcely to be carried to his temple by vulgar hands, like a butchered gladiator
Murdered
Is it thy zeal that has brought thee to this? Have they detected thy noble purpose, and by death prevented their own shame
Murder hath been done upon this corpse! Where is the murderer? Stand forth, Egyptian! For, as the Lord liveth, I believe thou art the man
I know
who is my accuser, and I guess wherefore he thus arraigns me. Men and citizens, know this man for the most bitter of the Nazarenes, if that or Christians be their proper name! What marvel that in his malignity he dares accuse even an Egyptian of the murder of a priest of Egypt
I know him! I know the dog
It is Olinthus the Christian -- or rather the Atheist -- he denies the gods
Peace, brethren
and hear me! This murdered priest of Isis before his death embraced the Christian faith -- he revealed to me the dark sins, the sorceries of yon Egyptian -- the mummeries and delusions of the fane of Isis. He was about to declare them publicly. He, a stranger, unoffending, without enemies! who should shed his blood but one of those who feared his witness? Who might fear that testimony the most?-- Arbaces, the Egyptian
You hear him
you hear him! he blasphemes! Ask him if he believes in Isis
Do I believe in an evil demon
Back, idolaters! this clay is not for your vain and polluting rites -- it is to us -- to the followers of Christ, that the last offices due to a Christian belong. I claim this dust in the name of the great Creator who has recalled the spirit
In the first place, hast thou, Olinthus, or whatever be thy name, any proof of the charge thou hast made against Arbaces, beyond thy vague suspicions
Dost thou claim the body of a priest of Isis as one of the Nazarene or Christian sect
I do
Swear then by yon fane, yon statue of Cybele, by yon most ancient sacellum in Pompeii, that the dead man embraced your faith
Vain man! I disown your idols! I abhor your temples! How can I swear by Cybele then
Away, away with the Atheist! away! the earth will swallow us, if we suffer these blasphemers in a sacred grove -- away with him to death
To the beasts
we shall have one a-piece now for the lion and tiger
If, O Nazarene, thou disbelievest in Cybele, which of our gods dost thou own
None
Hark to him! hark
O vain and blind
can you believe in images of wood and stone? Do you imagine that they have eyes to see, or ears to hear, or hands to help ye? Is yon mute thing carved by man's art a goddess!-- hath it made mankind?-- alas! by mankind was it made. Lo! convince yourself of its nothingness -- of your folly
See
your goddess cannot avenge herself. Is this a thing to worship
Peace
refer we this insolent blasphemer to the proper tribunal -- time has been already wasted. Bear we both the culprits to the magistrates; place the body of the priest on the litter -- carry it to his own home
I claim these remains, according to the custom of the priesthood
The flamen be obeyed
How is the murderer
Insensible or asleep
Were his crimes less, I could pity him. On
Could he have witnessed the deed
By Jupiter, a stout knave! I say, we shall have a man for the tiger now; one for each beast
Ho
a man for the lion, and another for the tiger! What luck! Io Paean
Holloa
have you no eyes? or do you think I have no feeling? By Jupiter! you have well nigh driven out the divine particle; such another shock, and my soul will be in Hades
Ah, Diomed! is it you? forgive my inadvertence. I was absorbed in thinking of the reverses of life. Our poor friend, Glaucus, eh! who could have guessed it
Well, but tell me, Clodius, is he really to be tried by the senate
Yes; they say the crime is of so extraordinary a nature that the senate itself must adjudge it; and so the lictors are to induct him formally
He has been accused publicly, then
To be sure; where have you been not to hear that
Why, I have only just returned from Neapolis, whither I went on business the very morning after his crime -- so shocking, and at my house the same night that it happened
There is no doubt of his guilt
and as these crimes take precedence of all little undignified peccadilloes, they will hasten to finish the sentence previous to the games
The games! Good gods
can they adjudge him to the beasts?-- so young, so rich
True; but then he is a Greek. Had he been a Roman, it would have been a thousand pities. These foreigners can be borne with in their prosperity; but in adversity we must not forget that they are in reality slaves. However, we of the upper classes are always tender-hearted; and he would certainly get off tolerably well if he were left to us: for, between ourselves, what is a paltry priest of Isis!-- what Isis herself? But the common people are superstitious; they clamor for the blood of the sacrilegious one. It is dangerous not to give way to public opinion
And the blasphemer -- the Christian, or Nazarene, or whatever else he be called
Oh, poor dog! if he will sacrifice to Cybele or Isis, he will be pardoned -- if not, the tiger has him. At least, so I suppose; but the trial will decide. We talk while the urn's still empty. And the Greek may yet escape the deadly Theta of his own alphabet. But enough of this gloomy subject. How is the fair Julia
Well, I fancy
Commend me to her. But hark! the door yonder creaks on its hinges; it is the house of the praetor. Who comes forth? By Pollux! it is the Egyptian! What can he want with our official friend
Some conference touching the murder, doubtless
but what was supposed to be the inducement to the crime? Glaucus was to have married the priest's sister
Yes: some say Apaecides refused the alliance. It might have been a sudden quarrel. Glaucus was evidently drunk -- nay, so much so as to have been quite insensible when taken up, and I hear is still delirious -- whether with wine, terror, remorse, the Furies, or the Bacchanals, I cannot say
Poor fellow!-- he has good counsel
The best -- Caius Pollio, an eloquent fellow enough. Pollio has been hiring all the poor gentlemen and well-born spendthrifts of Pompeii to dress shabbily and sneak about, swearing their friendship to Glaucus (who would not have spoken to them to be made emperor!-- I will do him justice, he was a gentleman in his choice of acquaintance), and trying to melt the stony citizens into pity. But it will not do; Isis is mightily popular just at this moment
And, by-the-by, I have some merchandise at Alexandria. Yes, Isis ought to be protected
True; so farewell, old gentleman: we shall meet soon; if not, we must have a friendly bet at the Amphitheatre. All my calculations are confounded by this cursed misfortune of Glaucus! He had bet on Lydon the gladiator; I must make up my tablets elsewhere. Vale
If
Glaucus feed the lion, Julia will no longer have a person to love better than me; she will certainly doat on me -- and so, I suppose, I must marry. By the gods! the twelve lines begin to fail -- men look suspiciously at my hand when it rattles the dice. That infernal Sallust insinuates cheating; and if it be discovered that the ivory is clogged, why farewell to the merry supper and the perfumed billet -- Clodius is undone! Better marry, then, while I may, renounce gaming, and push my fortune (or rather the gentle Julia's) at the imperial court
Hail, noble Clodius! pardon my interruption; and inform me, I pray you, which is the house of Sallust
It is but a few yards hence, wise Arbaces. But does Sallust entertain to-night
I know not
nor am I, perhaps, one of those whom he would seek as a boon companion. But thou knowest that his house holds the person of Glaucus, the murderer
Ay! he, good-hearted epicure, believes in the Greek's innocence! You remind me that he has become his surety; and, therefore, till the trial, is responsible for his appearance
Why, noble Clodius, if we could save him from execution it would be well. The condemnation of the rich is a blow upon society itself. I should like to confer with him -- for I hear he has recovered his senses -- and ascertain the motives of his crime; they may be so extenuating as to plead in his defence
You are benevolent, Arbaces
Benevolence is the duty of one who aspires to wisdom
Which way lies Sallust's mansion
I will show you
if you will suffer me to accompany you a few steps. But, pray what has become of the poor girl who was to have wed the Athenian -- the sister of the murdered priest
Alas! well-nigh insane! Sometimes she utters imprecations on the murderer -- then suddenly stops short -- then cries, "But why curse? Oh, my brother! Glaucus was not thy murderer -- never will I believe it!" Then she begins again, and again stops short, and mutters awfully to herself, "Yet if it were indeed he
Unfortunate Ione
But it is well for her that those solemn cares to the dead which religion enjoins have hitherto greatly absorbed her attention from Glaucus and herself: and, in the dimness of her senses, she scarcely seems aware that Glaucus is apprehended and on the eve of trial. When the funeral rites due to Apaecides are performed, her apprehension will return; and then I fear me much that her friends will be revolted by seeing her run to succour and aid the murderer of her brother
Such scandal should be prevented
I trust I have taken precautions to that effect. I am her lawful guardian, and have just succeeded in obtaining permission to escort her, after the funeral of Apaecides, to my own house; there, please the gods! she will be secure
You have done well, sage Arbaces. And, now, yonder is the house of Sallust. The gods keep you! Yet, hark you, Arbaces -- why so gloomy and unsocial? Men say you can be gay -- why not let me initiate you into the pleasures of Pompeii?-- I flatter myself no one knows them better
I thank you, noble Clodius: under your auspices I might venture, I think, to wear the philyra: but, at my age, I should be an awkward pupil
Oh, never fear; I have made converts of fellows of seventy. The rich, too, are never old
You flatter me. At some future time I will remind you of your promise
You may command Marcus Clodius at all times -- and so, vale
Now
I am not wantonly a man of blood; I would willingly save this Greek, if, by confessing the crime, he will lose himself for ever to Ione, and for ever free me from the chance of discovery; and I can save him by persuading Julia to own the philtre, which will be held his excuse. But if he do not confess the crime, why, Julia must be shamed from the confession, and he must die!-- die, lest he prove my rival with the living -- die, that he may be my proxy with the dead! Will he confess?-- can he not be persuaded that in his delirium he struck the blow? To me it would give far greater safety than even his death. Hem! we must hazard the experiment
Rise
thou obstructest the way
Who art thou? I know the burden of thy voice
Blind girl! what dost thou here at this late hour? Fie!-- is this seeming thy sex or years? Home, girl
I know thee
Hush, child! I know all!-- thou forgettest that I accompanied Julia to the saga's home. Doubtless her hand administered the draught; but her reputation demands thy silence. Reproach not thyself -- what must be, must: meanwhile, I seek the criminal -- he may yet be saved. Away
Arbaces -- important business to Sallust relative to Glaucus. I come from the praetor
How is he
tell me -- tell me
Ho, mad girl! is it thou still?-- for shame! Why, they say he is sensible
The gods be praised!-- and you will not admit me? Ah! I beseech thee
Admit thee!-- no. A pretty salute I should prepare for these shoulders were I to admit such things as thou! Go home
What! Arbaces! and at this hour!-- Accept this cup
Nay, gentle Sallust; it is on business, not pleasure, that I venture to disturb thee. How doth thy charge?-- they say in the town that he has recovered sense
Alas! and truly
but so shattered are his nerves and frame that I scarcely recognize the brilliant and gay carouser I was wont to know. Yet, strange to say, he cannot account for the cause of the sudden frenzy that seized him -- he retains but a dim consciousness of what hath passed; and, despite thy witness, wise Egyptian, solemnly upholds his innocence of the death of Apaecides
Sallust
there is much in thy friend's case that merits a peculiar indulgence; and could we learn from his lips the confession and the cause of his crime, much might be yet hoped from the mercy of the senate; for the senate, thou knowest, hath the power either to mitigate or to sharpen the law. Therefore it is that I have conferred with the highest authority of the city, and obtained his permission to hold a private conference this night with the Athenian. Tomorrow, thou knowest, the trial comes on
Well
thou wilt be worthy of thy Eastern name and fame if thou canst learn aught from him; but thou mayst try. Poor Glaucus!-- and he had such an excellent appetite! He eats nothing now
Night wanes
suffer me to see thy ward now
Glaucus, we have been enemies. I come to thee alone and in the dead of night -- thy friend, perhaps thy saviour
Am I still dreaming
No, Glaucus thou art awake. By this right hand and my father's head, thou seest one who may save thy life. Hark! I know what thou hast done, but I know also its excuse, of which thou thyself art ignorant. Thou hast committed murder, it is true -- a sacrilegious murder -- frown not -- start not -- these eyes saw it. But I can save thee -- I can prove how thou wert bereaved of sense, and made not a free-thinking and free-acting man. But in order to save thee, thou must confess thy crime. Sign but this paper, acknowledging thy hand in the death of Apaecides, and thou shalt avoid the fatal urn
What words are these?-- Murder and Apaecides!-- Did I not see him stretched on the ground bleeding and a corpse? and wouldst thou persuade me that I did the deed? Man, thou liest! Away
Be not rash -- Glaucus, be not hasty; the deed is proved. Come, come, thou mayst well be excused for not recalling the act of thy delirium, and which thy sober senses would have shunned even to contemplate. But let me try to refresh thy exhausted and weary memory. Thou knowest thou wert walking with the priest, disputing about his sister; thou knowest he was intolerant, and half a Nazarene, and he sought to convert thee, and ye had hot words; and he calumniated thy mode of life, and swore he would not marry Ione to thee -- and then, in thy wrath and thy frenzy, thou didst strike the sudden blow. Come, come; you can recollect this!-- read this papyrus, it runs to that effect -- sign it, and thou art saved
Barbarian, give me the written lie, that I may tear it! I the murderer of Ione's brother: I confess to have injured one hair of the head of him she loved! Let me rather perish a thousand times
Beware
there is but one choice -- thy confession and thy signature, or the amphitheatre and the lion's maw
Great gods
what reverse is this? It seems but a little day since life laughed out from amidst roses -- Ione mine -- youth, health, love, lavishing on me their treasures; and now -- pain, madness, shame, death! And for what? What have I done? Oh, I am mad still
Sign, and be saved
Tempter, never
Thou knowest me not: thou knowest not the haughty soul of an Athenian! The sudden face of death might appal me for a moment, but the fear is over. Dishonour appals for ever! Who will debase his name to save his life? who exchange clear thoughts for sullen days? who will belie himself to shame, and stand blackened in the eyes of love? If to earn a few years of polluted life there be so base a coward, dream not, dull barbarian of Egypt! to find him in one who has trod the same sod as Harmodius, and breathed the same air as Socrates. Go! leave me to live without self-reproach -- or to perish without fear
Bethink thee well! the lion's fangs: the hoots of the brutal mob: the vulgar gaze on thy dying agony and mutilated limbs: thy name degraded; thy corpse unburied; the shame thou wouldst avoid clinging to thee for aye and ever
Thou ravest; thou art the madman! shame is not in the loss of other men's esteem -- it is in the loss of our own. Wilt thou go?-- my eyes loathe the sight of thee! hating ever, I despise thee now
I go
I go; we meet twice again -- once at the Trial, once at the Death! Farewell
He is still unconscious, or still obstinate; there is no hope for him
Say not so
say not so, my Egyptian! so good a drinker shall be saved if possible. Bacchus against Isis
We shall see
Wilt thou save him
Child, follow me home; I would speak to thee -- it is for his sake I ask it
And thou wilt save him
I must secure this girl
lest she give evidence of the philtre; as to the vain Julia, she will not betray herself
My brother! my brother
thou whom the worm on thy path feared not -- what enemy couldst thou provoke? Oh, is it in truth come to this? Awake! awake! We grew together! Are we thus torn asunder? Thou art not dead -- thou sleepest. Awake! awake
Ah
we are not then alone
Ilicet
Salve Eternum
Averting gods
and have I been so long forgetful of him? Have I seemed to shun him? O! let me hasten to do him justice -- to show that I, the nearest relative of the dead, believe him innocent of the charge. Quick! quick! let us fly. Let me soothe -- tend -- cheer him! and if they will not believe me; if they will not lead to my conviction; if they sentence him to exile or to death, let me share the sentence with him
Fair Ione
my ward, my pupil! forgive me if I disturb thy pious sorrows; but the praetor, solicitous of thy honour, and anxious that thou mayest not rashly be implicated in the coming trial; knowing the strange embarrassment of thy state (seeking justice for thy brother, but dreading punishment to thy betrothed)-- sympathizing, too, with thy unprotected and friendless condition, and deeming it harsh that thou shouldst be suffered to act unguided and mourn alone -- hath wisely and paternally confided thee to the care of thy lawful guardian. Behold the writing which intrusts thee to my charge
Dark Egyptian
begone! It is thou that hast slain my brother! Is it to thy care, thy hands yet reeking with his blood, that they will give the sister Ha! thou turnest pale! thy conscience smites thee! thou tremblest at the thunderbolt of the avenging god! Pass on, and leave me to my woe
Thy sorrows unstring thy reason, Ione
I forgive thee. Thou wilt find me now, as ever, thy surest friend. But the public streets are not the fitting place for us to confer -- for me to console thee. Approach, slaves! Come, my sweet charge, the litter awaits thee
Arbaces
this is surely not the law! For nine days after the funeral, is it not written that the relatives of the deceased shall not be molested in their homes, or interrupted in their solitary grief
Woman
to place a ward under the roof of her guardian is not against the funeral laws. I tell thee I have the fiat of the praetor. This delay is indecorous. Place her in the litter
Ha, ha! this is well -- well! Excellent guardian -- paternal law! Ha, ha
Daughter
thou must rest here; it is not meet for thee to wander along the streets, and be spurned from the threshold by the rude feet of slaves. I have compassion on thy soft crime -- I will do all to remedy it. Wait here patiently for some days, and Glaucus shall be restored
At the worst, now she is in my power
Yes
yes, the law that gave me the person of my ward gives me the possession of my bride. Far across the broad main will we sweep on our search after novel luxuries and inexperienced pleasures. Cheered by my stars, supported by the omens of my soul, we will penetrate to those vast and glorious worlds which my wisdom tells me lie yet untracked in the recesses of the circling sea. There may this heart, possessed of love, grow once more alive to ambition -- there, amongst nations uncrushed by the Roman yoke, and to whose ear the name of Rome has not yet been wafted, I may found an empire, and transplant my ancestral creed; renewing the ashes of the dead Theban rule; continuing in yet grander shores the dynasty of my crowned fathers, and waking in the noble heart of Ione the grateful consciousness that she shares the lot of one who, far from the aged rottenness of this slavish civilization, restores the primal elements of greatness, and unites in one mighty soul the attributes of the prophet and the king
Ho, girl
Where is thy master? and wherefore am I caged here? I want air and liberty: let me go forth
Alas! little one, hast thou not seen enough of Arbaces to know that his will is imperial! He hath ordered thee to be caged; and caged thou art, and I am thy keeper. Thou canst not have air and liberty; but thou mayst have what are much better things -- food and wine
Proh Jupiter
and why am I thus imprisoned? What can the great Arbaces want with so poor a thing as I am
That I know not, unless it be to attend on thy new mistress, who has been brought hither this day
What! Ione here
Yes, poor lady; she liked it little, I fear. Yet, by the Temple of Castor! Arbaces is a gallant man to the women. Thy lady is his ward, thou knowest
Wilt thou take me to her
She is ill -- frantic with rage and spite. Besides, I have no orders to do so; and I never think for myself. When Arbaces made me slave of these chambers, he said, "I have but one lesson to give thee -- while thou servest me, thou must have neither ears, eyes, nor thought; thou must be but one quality -- obedience
But what harm is there in seeing Ione
That I know not; but if thou wantest a companion, I am willing to talk to thee, little one, for I am solitary enough in my dull cubiculum. And, by the way, thou art Thessalian -- knowest thou not some cunning amusement of knife and shears, some pretty trick of telling fortunes, as most of thy race do, in order to pass the time
Tush, slave, hold thy peace! or, if thou wilt speak, what hast thou heard of the state of Glaucus
Why, my master has gone to the Athenian's trial; Glaucus will smart for it
For what
The murder of the priest Apaecides
Ha
something of this I have indeed heard, but understand not. Yet, who will dare to touch a hair of his head
That will the lion, I fear
Averting gods! what wickedness dost thou utter
Why, only that, if he be found guilty, the lion, or may be the tiger, will be his executioner
Ah! tell me thou jestest -- thou utterest not the truth -- speak, speak
Why, by my faith, blind girl, I know nothing of the law; it may not be so bad as I say. But Arbaces is his accuser, and the people desire a victim for the arena. Cheer thee! But what hath the fate of the Athenian to do with thine
No matter, no matter -- he has been kind to me: thou knowest not, then, what they will do? Arbaces his accuser! O fate! The people -- the people! Ah! they can look upon his face -- who will be cruel to the Athenian!-- Yet was not Love itself cruel to him
The night
is the sole time in which we can well decipher the decrees of Fate -- then it is thou must seek me. But what desirest thou to learn
By Pollux! I should like to know as much as my master; but that is not to be expected. Let me know, at least, whether I shall save enough to purchase my freedom, or whether this Egyptian will give it me for nothing. He does such generous things sometimes. Next, supposing that be true, shall I possess myself of that snug taberna among the Myropolia, which I have long had in my eye? 'Tis a genteel trade that of a perfumer, and suits a retired slave who has something of a gentleman about him
Ay! so you would have precise answers to those questions?-- there are various ways of satisfying you. There is the Lithomanteia, or Speaking-stone, which answers your prayer with an infant's voice; but, then, we have not that precious stone with us -- costly is it and rare. Then there is the Gastromanteia, whereby the demon casts pale and deadly images upon the water, prophetic of the future. But this art requires also glasses of a peculiar fashion, to contain the consecrated liquid, which we have not. I think, therefore, that the simplest method of satisfying your desire would be by the Magic of Air
I trust
that there is nothing very frightful in the operation? I have no love for apparitions
Fear not; thou wilt see nothing; thou wilt only hear by the bubbling of water whether or not thy suit prospers. First, then, be sure, from the rising of the evening star, that thou leavest the garden-gate somewhat open, so that the demon may feel himself invited to enter therein; and place fruits and water near the gate as a sign of hospitality; then, three hours after twilight, come here with a bowl of the coldest and purest water, and thou shalt learn all, according to the Thessalian lore my mother taught me. But forget not the garden-gate -- all rests upon that: it must be open when you come, and for three hours previously
Trust me
I know what a gentleman's feelings are when a door is shut in his face, as the cookshop's hath been in mine many a day; and I know, also, that a person of respectability, as a demon of course is, cannot but be pleased, on the other hand, with any little mark of courteous hospitality. Meanwhile, pretty one, here is thy morning's meal
But what of the trial
Oh, the lawyers are still at it -- talk, talk -- it will last over all to-morrow
To-morrow? You are sure of that
So I hear
And Ione
By Bacchus! she must be tolerably well, for she was strong enough to make my master stamp and bite his lip this morning. I saw him quit her apartment with a brow like a thunderstorm
Lodges she near this
No -- in the upper apartments. But I must not stay prating here longer. Vale
Some tribute
to the garden god. By my father's head! if his deityship were never better served, he would do well to give up the godly profession. Ah! were it not for us priests, the gods would have a sad time of it. And now for Arbaces -- I am treading a quicksand, but it ought to cover a mine. I have the Egyptian's life in my power -- what will he value it at
Ho! Calenus -- seekest thou me
Yes, wise Arbaces -- I trust my visit is not unseasonable
Nay -- it was but this instant that my freedman Callias sneezed thrice at my right hand; I knew, therefore, some good fortune was in store for me -- and, lo! the gods have sent me Calenus
Shall we within to your chamber, Arbaces
As you will; but the night is clear and balmy -- I have some remains of languor yet lingering on me from my recent illness -- the air refreshes me -- let us walk in the garden -- we are equally alone there
With all my heart
It is a lovely night
blue and beautiful as that on which, twenty years ago, the shores of Italy first broke upon my view. My Calenus, age creeps upon us -- let us, at least, feel that we have lived
Thou, at least, mayst arrogate that boast
Thou, at least, mayst arrogate that boast. Thou hast had countless wealth -- a frame on whose close-woven fibres disease can find no space to enter -- prosperous love -- inexhaustible pleasure -- and, even at this hour, triumphant revenge
Thou alludest to the Athenian. Ay, to-morrow's sun the fiat of his death will go forth. The senate does not relent. But thou mistakest: his death gives me no other gratification than that it releases me from a rival in the affections of Ione. I entertain no other sentiment of animosity against that unfortunate homicide
Homicide
Homicide! it is well to charge him with that crime; but thou, of all men, knowest that he is innocent
Explain thyself
Arbaces
I was in the sacred grove, sheltered by the chapel and the surrounding foliage. I overheard -- I marked the whole. I saw thy weapon pierce the heart of Apaecides. I blame not the deed -- it destroyed a foe and an apostate
Thou sawest the whole
so I imagined -- thou wert alone
Alone
And wherefore wert thou hid behind the chapel at that hour
Because I had learned the conversion of Apaecides to the Christian faith -- because I knew that on that spot he was to meet the fierce Olinthus -- because they were to meet there to discuss plans for unveiling the sacred mysteries of our goddess to the people -- and I was there to detect, in order to defeat them
Hast thou told living ear what thou didst witness
No, my master: the secret is locked in thy servant's breast
What! even thy kinsman Burbo guesses it not! Come, the truth
By the gods
Hush! we know each other -- what are the gods to us
By the fear of thy vengeance, then -- no
And why hast thou hitherto concealed from me this secret? Why hast thou waited till the eve of the Athenian's condemnation before thou hast ventured to tell me that Arbaces is a murderer? And having tarried so long, why revealest thou now that knowledge
Because -- because
Because
because, my Calenus (see now, I will read thy heart, and explain its motives)-- because thou didst wish thoroughly to commit and entangle me in the trial, so that I might have no loophole of escape; that I might stand firmly pledged to perjury and to malice, as well as to homicide; that having myself whetted the appetite of the populace to blood, no wealth, no power, could prevent my becoming their victim: and thou tellest me thy secret now, ere the trial be over and the innocent condemned, to show what a desperate web of villainy thy word to-morrow could destroy; to enhance in this, the ninth hour, the price of thy forbearance; to show that my own arts, in arousing the popular wrath, would, at thy witness, recoil upon myself; and that if not for Glaucus, for me would gape the jaws of the lion! Is it not so
Arbaces, replied Calenus, losing all the vulgar audacity of his natural character, 'verily thou art a Magician; thou readest the heart as it were a scroll
It is my vocation
Well, then, forbear; and when all is over, I will make thee rich
Pardon me
pardon me; thou saidst right -- we know each other. If thou wouldst have me silent, thou must pay something in advance, as an offer to Harpocrates
Witty and poetical
Wilt thou not wait the morrow
Why this delay? Perhaps, when I can no longer give my testimony without shame for not having given it ere the innocent man suffered, thou wilt forget my claim; and, indeed, thy present hesitation is a bad omen of thy future gratitude
Well, then, Calenus, what wouldst thou have me pay thee
Thy life is, very precious, and thy wealth is very great
Wittier and more witty. But speak out -- what shall be the sum
Arbaces, I have heard that in thy secret treasury below, beneath those rude Oscan arches which prop thy stately halls, thou hast piles of gold, of vases, and of jewels, which might rival the receptacles of the wealth of the deified Nero. Thou mayst easily spare out of those piles enough to make Calenus among the richest priests of Pompeii, and yet not miss the loss
Come, Calenus
thou art an old friend, and hast been a faithful servant. Thou canst have no wish to take away my life, nor I a desire to stint thy reward: thou shalt descend with me to that treasury thou referrest to, thou shalt feast thine eyes with the blaze of uncounted gold and the sparkle of priceless gems; and thou shalt for thy own reward, bear away with thee this night as much as thou canst conceal beneath thy robes. Nay, when thou hast once seen what thy friend possesses, thou wilt learn how foolish it would be to injure one who has so much to bestow. When Glaucus is no more, thou shalt pay the treasury another visit. Speak I frankly and as a friend
Oh, greatest, best of men
canst thou thus forgive my injurious doubts of thy justice, thy generosity
Hush! one other turn and we will descend to the Oscan arches
Well, Sosia, and art thou prepared? Hast thou the bowl of pure water
Verily, yes: but I tremble a little. You are sure I shall not see the demon? I have heard that those gentlemen are by no means of a handsome person or a civil demeanor
Be assured! And hast thou left the garden-gate gently open
Yes; and placed some beautiful nuts and apples on a little table close by
That's well. And the gate is open now, so that the demon may pass through it
Surely it is
Well, then, open this door; there -- leave it just ajar. And now, Sosia, give me the lamp
What, you will not extinguish it
No; but I must breathe my spell over its ray. There is a spirit in fire. Seat thyself
The spectre is certainly coming
I feel him running along my hair
Place thy bowl of water on the ground. Now, then, give me thy napkin, and let me fold up thy face and eyes
Ay! that's always the custom with these charms. Not so tight, though: gently -- gently
There -- thou canst not see
See, by Jupiter! No! nothing but darkness
Address, then, to the spectre whatever question thou wouldst ask him, in a low-whispered voice, three times. If thy question is answered in the affirmative, thou wilt hear the water ferment and bubble before the demon breathes upon it; if in the negative, the water will be quite silent
But you will not play any trick with the water, eh
Let me place the bowl under thy feet -- so. Now thou wilt perceive that I cannot touch it without thy knowledge
Very fair. Now, then, O Bacchus! befriend me. Thou knowest that I have always loved thee better than all the other gods, and I will dedicate to thee that silver cup I stole last year from the burly carptor (butler), if thou wilt but befriend me with this water-loving demon. And thou, O Spirit! listen and hear me. Shall I be enabled to purchase my freedom next year? Thou knowest; for, as thou livest in the air, the birds have doubtless acquainted thee with every secret of this house,-- thou knowest that I have filched and pilfered all that I honestly -- that is, safely -- could lay finger upon for the last three years, and I yet want two thousand sesterces of the full sum. Shall I be able, O good Spirit! to make up the deficiency in the course of this year? Speak -- Ha! does the water bubble? No; all is as still as a tomb.-- Well, then, if not this year, in two years?-- Ah! I hear something; the demon is scratching at the door; he'll be here presently.-- In two years, my good fellow: come now, two; that's a very reasonable time. What! dumb still! Two years and a half -- three -- four? ill fortune to you, friend demon! You are not a lady, that's clear, or you would not keep silence so long. Five -- six -- sixty years? and may Pluto seize you! I'll ask no more
What, ho! Nydia; the lamp is gone. Ah, traitress; and thou art gone too; but I'll catch thee -- thou shalt smart for this
But
she will go home, or, at least, be somewhere in the city. To-morrow, at dawn, when the slaves are at work in the peristyle, I can make myself heard; then I can go forth and seek her. I shall be sure to find and bring her back, before Arbaces knows a word of the matter. Ah! that's the best plan. Little traitress, my fingers itch at thee: and to leave only a bowl of water, too! Had it been wine, it would have been some comfort
Yet
it is these rude abodes that furnish the luxuries of the halls above. They are like the laborers of the world -- we despise their ruggedness, yet they feed the very pride that disdains them
in this depth of gloom it seems without limit, as if winding into Hades
On the contrary, it does but conduct to the upper rooms
it is to the right that we steer to our bourn
The gay Glaucus will be lodged to-morrow in apartments not much drier, and far less spacious than this
Ay, but then he will have dry room, and ample enough, in the arena on the following day. And to think
to think that a word of thine could save him, and consign Arbaces to his doom
That word shall never be spoken
Right, my Calenus! it never shall
and now, halt -- we are at the door
Enter, my friend
while I hold the lamp on high, that thou mayst glut thine eyes on the yellow heaps
The word shall never be spoken
Oh, release me, release me, and I will ask no gold
All the gold of Dalmatia
will not buy thee a crust of bread. Starve, wretch! thy dying groans will never wake even the echo of these vast halls; nor will the air ever reveal, as thou gnawest, in thy desperate famine, thy flesh from thy bones, that so perishes the man who threatened, and could have undone, Arbaces! Farewell
Oh, pity -- mercy! Inhuman villain; was it for this
Thou art loathsome and obscene
but thou canst not injure me; therefore thou art safe in my path
This is unfortunate
for I cannot sail till that voice is dumb for ever. My stores and treasures lie, not in yon dungeon it is true, but in the opposite wing. My slaves, as they move them, must not hear his voice. But what fear of that? In three days, if he still survive, his accents, by my father's beard, must be weak enough, then!-- no, they could not pierce even through his tomb. By Isis, it is cold!-- I long for a deep draught of the spiced Falernian
Who's there
what spectre -- what dread larva, calls upon the lost Calenus
Priest
unknown to Arbaces, I have been, by the permission of the gods, a witness to his perfidy. If I myself can escape from these walls, I may save thee. But let thy voice reach my ear through this narrow passage, and answer what I ask
Ah, blessed spirit
save me, and I will sell the very cups on the altar to pay thy kindness
I want not thy gold -- I want thy secret. Did I hear aright? Canst thou save the Athenian Glaucus from the charge against his life
I can -- I can!-- therefore (may the Furies blast the foul Egyptian!) hath Arbaces snared me thus, and left me to starve and rot
They accuse the Athenian of murder: canst thou disprove the accusation
Only free me, and the proudest head of Pompeii is not more safe than his. I saw the deed done -- I saw Arbaces strike the blow; I can convict the true murderer and acquit the innocent man. But if I perish, he dies also. Dost thou interest thyself for him? Oh, blessed stranger, in my heart is the urn which condemns or frees him
And thou wilt give full evidence of what thou knowest
Will!-- Oh! were hell at my feet -- yes! Revenge on the false Egyptian!-- revenge!-- revenge! revenge
said she, 'the powers that conducted me hither will carry me through all. Yes, I feel that I shall deliver thee. Wait in patience and hope
But be cautious, be prudent, sweet stranger. Attempt not to appeal to Arbaces -- he is marble. Seek the praetor -- say what thou knowest -- obtain his writ of search; bring soldiers, and smiths of cunning -- these locks are wondrous strong! Time flies -- I may starve -- starve! if you are not quick! Go -- go! Yet stay -- it is horrible to be alone!-- the air is like a charnel -- and the scorpions -- ha! and the pale larvae; oh! stay, stay
Nay
nay, for thy sake, I must depart. Take hope for thy companion -- farewell
Ah
Ah! that my death could remove thy hatred, then would I gladly die! Thou wrongest me, Ione; but I will bear the wrong without a murmur, only let me see thee sometimes. Chide, reproach, scorn me, if thou wilt -- I will teach myself to bear it. And is not even thy bitterest tone sweeter to me than the music of the most artful lute? In thy silence the world seems to stand still -- a stagnation curdles up the veins of the earth -- there is no earth, no life, without the light of thy countenance and the melody of thy voice
Give me back my brother and my betrothed
Would that I could restore the one and save the other
Yes; to make thee happy I would renounce my ill-fated love, and gladly join thy hand to the Athenian's. Perhaps he will yet come unscathed from his trial (Arbaces had prevented her learning that the trial had already commenced); if so, thou art free to judge or condemn him thyself. And think not, O Ione, that I would follow thee longer with a prayer of love. I know it is in vain. Suffer me only to weep -- to mourn with thee. Forgive a violence deeply repented, and that shall offend no more. Let me be to thee only what I once was -- a friend, a father, a Protector. Ah, Ione! spare me and forgive
I forgive thee. Save but Glaucus, and I will renounce him. O mighty Arbaces! thou art powerful in evil or in good: save the Athenian, and the poor Ione will never see him more
Oh! if thou really lovest me -- if thou art human -- remember my father's ashes, remember my childhood, think of all the hours we passed happily together, and save my Glaucus
If I could save him, even now, I would; but the Roman law is stern and sharp. Yet if I could succeed -- if I could rescue and set him free -- wouldst thou be mine -- my bride
Thine
thine!-- thy bride? My brother's blood is unavenged: who slew him? O Nemesis, can I even sell, for the life of Glaucus, thy solemn trust? Arbaces -- thine? Never
Ione, Ione
why these mysterious words?-- why dost thou couple my name with the thought of thy brother's death
My dreams couple it -- and dreams are from the gods
Vain fantasies all! Is it for a dream that thou wouldst wrong the innocent, and hazard thy sole chance of saving thy lover's life
Hear me
If Glaucus be saved by thee, I will never be borne to his home a bride. But I cannot master the horror of other rites: I cannot wed with thee. Interrupt me not; but mark me, Arbaces!-- if Glaucus die, on that same day I baffle thine arts, and leave to thy love only my dust! Yes -- thou mayst put the knife and the poison from my reach -- thou mayst imprison -- thou mayst chain me, but the brave soul resolved to escape is never without means. These hands, naked and unarmed though they be, shall tear away the bonds of life. Fetter them, and these lips shall firmly refuse the air. Thou art learned -- thou hast read how women have died rather than meet dishonour. If Glaucus perish, I will not unworthily linger behind him. By all the gods of the heaven, and the ocean, and the earth, I devote myself to death! I have said
Brave heart
thou art indeed worthy to be mine. Oh! that I should have dreamt of such a partner in my lofty destinies, and never found it but in thee! Ione
dost thou not see that we are born for each other? Canst thou not recognize something kindred to thine own energy -- thine own courage -- in this high and self-dependent soul? We were formed to unite our sympathies -- formed to breathe a new spirit into this hackneyed and gross world -- formed for the mighty ends which my soul, sweeping down the gloom of time, foresees with a prophet's vision. With a resolution equal to thine own, I defy thy threats of an inglorious suicide. I hail thee as my own! Queen of climes undarkened by the eagle's wing, unravaged by his beak, I bow before thee in homage and in awe -- but I claim thee in worship and in love! Together will we cross the ocean -- together will we found our realm; and far distant ages shall acknowledge the long race of kings born from the marriage-bed of Arbaces and Ione
Thou ravest! These mystic declamations are suited rather to some palsied crone selling charms in the market-place than to the wise Arbaces. Thou hast heard my resolution -- it is fixed as the Fates themselves. Orcus has heard my vow, and it is written in the book of the unforgetful Hades. Atone, then, O Arbaces!-- atone the past: convert hatred into regard -- vengeance into gratitude; preserve one who shall never be thy rival. These are acts suited to thy original nature, which gives forth sparks of something high and noble. They weigh in the scales of the Kings of Death: they turn the balance on that day when the disembodied soul stands shivering and dismayed between Tartarus and Elysium; they gladden the heart in life, better and longer than the reward of a momentary passion. Oh, Arbaces! hear me, and be swayed
Enough, Ione. All that I can do for Glaucus shall be done; but blame me not if I fail. Inquire of my foes, even, if I have not sought, if I do not seek, to turn aside the sentence from his head; and judge me accordingly. Sleep then, Ione. Night wanes; I leave thee to rest -- and mayst thou have kinder dreams of one who has no existence but in thine
Go, Callias
forthwith to Sosia, and tell him, that on no pretence is he to suffer the blind slave Nydia out of her chamber. But, stay -- first seek those in attendance upon my ward, and caution them not to inform her that the blind girl is under my roof Go -- quick
Oh, Callias, is it you that I hear?-- the gods be praised
What!-- in the chamber with that young girl, Sosia! Proh pudor! Are there not fruits ripe enough on the wall, but that thou must tamper with such green
Name not the little witch
she will be my ruin
Hang thyself, then, unhappy Sosia! I am just charged from Arbaces with a message to thee; on no account art thou to suffer her, even for a moment, from that chamber
Me miserum
What can I do!-- by this time she may have visited half Pompeii. But tomorrow I will undertake to catch her in her old haunts. Keep but my counsel, my dear Callias
I will do all that friendship can, consistent with my own safety. But are you sure she has left the house?-- she may be hiding here yet
How is that possible? She could easily have gained the garden; and the door, as I told thee, was open
Nay, not so; for, at that very hour thou specifiest, Arbaces was in the garden with the priest Calenus. I went there in search of some herbs for my master's bath to-morrow. I saw the table set out; but the gate I am sure was shut: depend upon it, that Calenus entered by the garden, and naturally closed the door after him
But it was not locked
Yes; for I myself, angry at a negligence which might expose the bronzes in the peristyle to the mercy of any robber, turned the key, took it away, and -- as I did not see the proper slave to whom to give it, or I should have rated him finely -- here it actually is, still in my girdle
Oh, merciful Bacchus! I did not pray to thee in vain, after all. Let us not lose a moment! Let us to the garden instantly -- she may yet be there
Hush, Callias!-- let her go on. Let us see what she will do when she has convinced herself that the door is honest
Look! she raises her face to the heavens -- she mutters -- she sinks down despondent! No! by Pollux, she has some new scheme! She will not resign herself! By Jupiter, a tough spirit! See, she springs up -- she retraces her steps -- she thinks of some other chance!-- I advise thee, Sosia, to delay no longer: seize her ere she quit the garden -- now
Ah! runaway! I have thee -- eh
Gods! that cry will alarm the house! Arbaces sleeps full lightly. Gag her
Ah! here is the very napkin with which the young witch conjured away my reason! Come, that's right; now thou art dumb as well as blind
So Glaucus denies his crime to the last
Yes; but the testimony of Arbaces was convincing; he saw the blow given
What could have been the cause
Why, the priest was a gloomy and sullen fellow. He probably rated Glaucus soundly about his gay life and gaming habits, and ultimately swore he would not consent to his marriage with Ione. High words arose; Glaucus seems to have been full of the passionate god, and struck in sudden exasperation. The excitement of wine, the desperation of abrupt remorse, brought on the delirium under which he suffered for some days; and I can readily imagine, poor fellow! that, yet confused by that delirium, he is even now unconscious of the crime he committed! Such, at least, is the shrewd conjecture of Arbaces, who seems to have been most kind and forbearing in his testimony
Yes; he has made himself generally popular by it. But, in consideration of these extenuating circumstances, the senate should have relaxed the sentence
And they would have done so, but for the people; but they were outrageous. The priest had spared no pains to excite them; and they imagined -- the ferocious brutes!-- because Glaucus was a rich man and a gentleman, that he was likely to escape; and therefore they were inveterate against him, and doubly resolved upon his sentence. It seems, by some accident or other, that he was never formally enrolled as a Roman citizen; and thus the senate is deprived of the power to resist the people, though, after all, there was but a majority of three against him. Ho! the Chian
He looks sadly altered; but how composed and fearless
Ay, we shall see if his firmness will last over to-morrow
The blasphemer! Yes
no wonder that one of the decurions was, but two days ago, struck dead by lightning in a serene sky
Yet so lenient was the senate, that had he but expressed his penitence, and scattered a few grains of incense on the altar of Cybele, he would have been let off. I doubt whether these Nazarenes, had they the state religion, would be as tolerant to us, supposing we had kicked down the image of their Deity, blasphemed their rites, and denied their faith
They give Glaucus one chance, in consideration of the circumstances; they allow him, against the lion, the use of the same stilus wherewith he smote the priest
Hast thou seen the lion? hast thou looked at his teeth and fangs, and wilt thou call that a chance? Why, sword and buckler would be mere reed and papyrus against the rush of the mighty beast! No, I think the true mercy has been, not to leave him long in suspense; and it was therefore fortunate for him that our benign laws are slow to pronounce, but swift to execute; and that the games of the amphitheatre had been, by a sort of providence, so long since fixed for to-morrow. He who awaits death, dies twice
he is to cope the grim tiger naked-handed. Well, these combats are past betting on. Who will take the odds
Poor Clodius
Why, it is provoking; it would have been some consolation to him and to me to think he was useful to the last
The people
are all delighted with the result. They were so much afraid the sports at the amphitheatre would go off without a criminal for the beasts; and now, to get two such criminals is indeed a joy for the poor fellows! They work hard; they ought to have some amusement
There speaks the popular Pansa, who never moves without a string of clients as long as an Indian triumph. He is always prating about the people. Gods! he will end by being a Gracchus
Certainly I am no insolent patrician
Well
And pray
what has become of the poor girl whom Glaucus was to have married? A widow without being a bride -- that is hard
Oh
she is safe under the protection of her guardian, Arbaces. It was natural she should go to him when she had lost both lover and brother
By sweet Venus, Glaucus was fortunate among the women. They say the rich Julia was in love with him
A mere fable, my friend
I was with her to-day. If any feeling of the sort she ever conceived, I flatter myself that I have consoled her
Hush, gentlemen
do you not know that Clodius is employed at the house of Diomed in blowing hard at the torch? It begins to burn, and will soon shine bright on the shrine of Hymen
Is it so
What! Clodius become a married man?-- Fie
Never fear
old Diomed is delighted at the notion of marrying his daughter to a nobleman, and will come down largely with the sesterces. You will see that I shall not lock them up in the atrium. It will be a white day for his jolly friends, when Clodius marries an heiress
Say you so
come, then, a full cup to the health of the fair Julia
Who (it said) is my companion in this awful hour? Athenian Glaucus, it is thou
So, indeed, they called me in mine hour of fortune: they may have other names for me now. And thy name, stranger
Is Olinthus, thy co-mate in the prison as the trial
What! he whom they call the Atheist? Is it the injustice of men that hath taught thee to deny the providence of the gods
Alas
thou, not I, art the true Atheist, for thou deniest the sole true God -- the Unknown One -- to whom thy Athenian fathers erected an altar. It is in this hour that I know my God. He is with me in the dungeon; His smile penetrates the darkness; on the eve of death my heart whispers immortality, and earth recedes from me but to bring the weary soul nearer unto heaven
Tell me
did I not hear thy name coupled with that of Apaecides in my trial? Dost thou believe me guilty
God alone reads the heart! but my suspicion rested not upon thee
On whom then
Thy accuser, Arbaces
Ha! thou cheerest me: and wherefore
Because I know the man's evil breast, and he had cause to fear him who is now dead
Therefore
had the deceased encountered Arbaces, reviled his treasons, and threatened detection, the place, the hour, might have favored the wrath of the Egyptian, and passion and craft alike dictated the fatal blow
It must have been so
I am happy
Yet what, O unfortunate! avails to thee now the discovery? Thou art condemned and fated; and in thine innocence thou wilt perish
But I shall know myself guiltless; and in my mysterious madness I had fearful, though momentary, doubts. Yet tell me, man of a strange creed, thinkest thou that for small errors, or for ancestral faults, we are for ever abandoned and accursed by the powers above, whatever name thou allottest to them
God is just, and abandons not His creatures for their mere human frailty. God is merciful, and curses none but the wicked who repent not
Yet it seemeth to me as if, in the divine anger, I had been smitten by a sudden madness, a supernatural and solemn frenzy, wrought not by human means
There are demons on earth
as well as there are God and His Son in heaven; and since thou acknowledgest not the last, the first may have had power over thee
Christian, believest thou, among the doctrines of thy creed, that the dead live again -- that they who have loved here are united hereafter -- that beyond the grave our good name shines pure from the mortal mists that unjustly dim it in the gross-eyed world -- and that the streams which are divided by the desert and the rock meet in the solemn Hades, and flow once more into one
Believe I that, O Athenian No, I do not believe -- I know! and it is that beautiful and blessed assurance which supports me now. O Cyllene
bride of my heart! torn from me in the first month of our nuptials
Yes
the immortality of the soul -- the resurrection -- the reunion of the dead -- is the great principle of our creed -- the great truth a God suffered death itself to attest and proclaim. No fabled Elysium -- no poetic Orcus -- but a pure and radiant heritage of heaven itself, is the portion of the good
Tell me, then, thy doctrines, and expound to me thy hopes
Ho! ho! what is this
Young slave, if thou screamest out thus, we must gag thee again. My shoulders will smart for it, if thou art heard by my master
Kind Sosia, chide me not -- I cannot endure to be so long alone
the solitude appals me. Sit with me, I pray, a little while. Nay, fear not that I should attempt to escape; place thy seat before the door. Keep thine eye on me -- I will not stir from this spot
I am sure I do not wish to be churlish; and so far as a little innocent chat goes, I have no objection to indulge you. But mind, no tricks -- no more conjuring
No, no; tell me, dear Sosia, what is the hour
It is already evening -- the goats are going home
Both condemned
Well -- well, I thought it would be so. When do they suffer
To-morrow, in the amphitheatre. If it were not for thee, little wretch, I should be allowed to go with the rest and see it
Thou sighest, blind one, at my loss! Well, that is some comfort. So long as you acknowledge how much you cost me, I will endeavor not to grumble. It is hard to be ill-treated, and yet not pitied
Sosia, how much dost thou require to make up the purchase of thy freedom
How much? Why, about two thousand sesterces
The gods be praised! not more? Seest thou these bracelets and this chain? They are well worth double that sum. I will give them thee if
Tempt me not: I cannot release thee. Arbaces is a severe and awful master. Who knows but I might feed the fishes of the Sarnus Alas! all the sesterces in the world would not buy me back into life. Better a live dog than a dead lion
Sosia, thy freedom! Think well! If thou wilt let me out only for one little hour!-- let me out at midnight -- I will return ere to-morrow's dawn; nay, thou canst go with me
No
a slave once disobeyed Arbaces, and he was never more heard of
But the law gives a master no power over the life of a slave
The law is very obliging, but more polite than efficient. I know that Arbaces always gets the law on his side. Besides, if I am once dead, what law can bring me to life again
Is there no hope, then
None of escape till Arbaces gives the word
Well, then, said Nydia, quickly, 'thou wilt not, at least, refuse to take a letter for me: thy master cannot kill thee for that
To whom
The praetor
To a magistrate? No -- not I. I should be made a witness in court, for what I know; and the way they cross-examine the slaves is by the torture
Pardon: I meant not the praetor -- it was a word that escaped me unawares: I meant quite another person -- the gay Sallust
Oh! and what want you with him
Glaucus was my master; he purchased me from a cruel lord. He alone has been kind to me. He is to die. I shall never live happily if I cannot, in his hour of trial and doom, let him know that one heart is grateful to him. Sallust is his friend; he will convey my message
I am sure he will do no such thing. Glaucus will have enough to think of between this and to-morrow without troubling his head about a blind girl
Man
wilt thou become free? Thou hast the offer in thy power; to-morrow it will be too late. Never was freedom more cheaply purchased. Thou canst easily and unmissed leave home: less than half an hour will suffice for thine absence. And for such a trifle wilt thou refuse liberty
Give me the trinkets, and I will take the letter. Yet stay -- thou art a slave -- thou hast no right to these ornaments -- they are thy master's
They were the gifts of Glaucus; he is my master. What chance hath he to claim them? Who else will know they are in my possession
Enough -- I will bring thee the papyrus
No, not papyrus -- a tablet of wax and a stilus
Sosia, I am blind and in prison. Thou mayst think to deceive me -- thou mayst pretend only to take the letter to Sallust -- thou mayst not fulfill thy charge: but here I solemnly dedicate thy head to vengeance, thy soul to the infernal powers, if thou wrongest thy trust; and I call upon thee to place thy right hand of faith in mine, and repeat after me these words: "By the ground on which we stand -- by the elements which contain life and can curse life -- by Orcus, the all-avenging -- by the Olympian Jupiter, the all-seeing -- I swear that I will honestly discharge my trust, and faithfully deliver into the hands of Sallust this letter! And if I perjure myself in this oath, may the full curses of heaven and hell be wreaked upon me!" Enough!-- I trust thee -- take thy reward. It is already dark -- depart at once
Thou art a strange girl, and thou hast frightened me terribly; but it is all very natural: and if Sallust is to be found, I give him this letter as I have sworn. By my faith, I may have my little peccadilloes! but perjury -- no! I leave that to my betters
Nevertheless, I have sworn to give this letter into his own hands -- do so I must
Well, well
you may enter if you will; but, to tell you the truth, Sallust is drinking himself out of his grief. It is his way when anything disturbs him. He orders a capital supper, the best wine, and does not give over till everything is out of his head -- but the liquor
An excellent plan -- excellent! Ah, what it is to be rich! If I were Sallust, I would have some grief or another every day. But just say a kind word for me with the atriensis -- I see him coming
My good fellow
Take a cup of wine
A thought too cold: but then how cold Glaucus must be! Shut up the house to-morrow -- not a slave shall stir forth -- none of my people shall honour that cursed arena -- No, no
Taste the Falernian -- your grief distracts you. By the gods it does -- a piece of that cheesecake
Ho -- what art thou
Merely a messenger to Sallust. I give him this billet from a young female. There is no answer that I know of. May I withdraw
By the gods -- a pimp! Unfeeling wretch!-- do you not see my sorrows? Go! and the curses of Pandarus with you
Will you read the letter, Sallust
Letter!-- which letter
A curse on these wenches, say I! Am I a man to think of --(hiccup)-- pleasure, when -- when -- my friend is going to be eat up
Eat another tartlet
No, no! My grief chokes me
Pimp, indeed
Pimp! a scurvy-tongued fellow that Sallust! Had I been called knave, or thief. I could have forgiven it; but pimp! Faugh! There is something in the word which the toughest stomach in the world would rise against. A knave is a knave for his own pleasure, and a thief a thief for his own profit; and there is something honorable and philosophical in being a rascal for one's own sake: that is doing things upon principle -- upon a grand scale. But a pimp is a thing that defiles itself for another -- a pipkin that is put on the fire for another man's pottage! a napkin, that every guest wipes his hands upon! and the scullion says, "by your leave" too. A pimp! I would rather he had called me parricide! But the man was drunk, and did not know what he said; and, besides, I disguised myself. Had he seen it had been Sosia who addressed him, it would have been "honest Sosia!" and, "worthy man!" I warrant. Nevertheless, the trinkets have been won easily -- that's some comfort! and, O goddess Feronia! I shall be a freedman soon! and then I should like to see who'll call me pimp!-- unless, indeed, he pay me pretty handsomely for it
What now
what now? Where are all these good folks thronging
Not so, man -- better still
the noble Pansa -- the people's friend -- has granted the public leave to see the beasts in their vivaria. By Hercules! they will not be seen so safely by some persons to-morrow
'Tis a pretty sight
and since I may not go to the sports to-morrow, I may as well take a peep at the beasts to-night
You will do well
a lion and a tiger are not to be seen at Pompeii every day
Aha
I always told you so; I always said we should have a man for the lion; and now we have one for the tiger too! I wish tomorrow were come
A jolly girl
Yes
Yes
the women love a gladiator. If I had been a slave, I would have soon found my schoolmaster in the lanista
Would you, indeed
People's notions differ
I have seen no fiercer beast than yon lion even in the amphitheatre of Rome
I feel humbled when I look at his limbs
Virtus in medio!-- virtue is ever in the middle
a goodly neighborhood for thee, Sosia -- a gladiator on each side
That is well said, Lydon
I feel the same
And to think
Why not
many an honest gladiator has been compelled to a like combat by the emperor -- why not a wealthy murderer by the law
Well
I thank the gods that it is not the lion or the tiger I am to contend with; even you, Niger, are a gentler combatant than they
But equally dangerous
That as it may be
I may as well take advantage of his shoulders
the crowd always give way to a gladiator, so I will keep close behind, and come in for a share of his consequence
That is young Lydon, a brave fellow: he fights to-morrow
Ah! I have a bet on him
see how firmly he walks
Good luck to thee, Lydon
Lydon, you have my wishes
and if you win, why, you may hear more of me
A handsome man, by Venus
Thank you
Niger
we have often quarrelled; we are not matched against each other, but one of us, at least, may reasonably expect to fall -- give us thy hand
Most readily
Ha! what fool is this? Why, I thought Niger was at my heels
I forgive the mistake
don't mention it; the error was easy -- I and Niger are somewhat of the same build
Ha! ha! that is excellent! Niger would have slit thy throat had he heard thee
You gentlemen of the arena have a most disagreeable mode of talking
let us change the conversation
Vah! vah
I am in no humor to converse with thee
Why, truly
you must have serious thoughts enough to occupy your mind: to-morrow is, I think, your first essay in the arena. Well, I am sure you will die bravely
May thy words fall on thine own head
Die! No -- I trust my hour is not yet come
He who plays at dice with death must expect the dog's throw
But you are a strong fellow, and I wish you all imaginable luck; and so, vale
I trust the rogue's words are not ominous
In my zeal for my father's liberty, and my confidence in my own thews and sinews, I have not contemplated the possibility of death. My poor father! I am thy only son!-- if I were to fall
Be sure, it is I whom he seeks
he is horror struck at the condemnation of Olinthus -- he more than ever esteems the arena criminal and hateful -- he comes again to dissuade me from the contest. I must shun him -- I cannot brook his prayers -- his tears
O horror on horrors
Olinthus is snatched from us! our right arm is lopped away! When will Christ descend to protect his own
Can human atrocity go farther said another: 'to sentence an innocent man to the same arena as a murderer! But let us not despair; the thunder of Sinai may yet be heard, and the Lord preserve his saint. "The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God
Who art thou, and what is thy task
I am That which thou hast acknowledged
My name is NATURE! These are the wheels of the world, and my hand guides them for the life of all things
And what
are these galleries, that strangely and fitfully illumined, stretch on either hand into the abyss of gloom
That
which thou beholdest to the left, is the gallery of the Unborn. The shadows that flit onward and upward into the world, are the souls that pass from the long eternity of being to their destined pilgrimage on earth. That which thou beholdest to thy right, wherein the shadows descending from above sweep on, equally unknown and dim, is the gallery of the Dead
And wherefore, said the voice of Arbaces, 'yon wandering lights, that so wildly break the darkness; but only break, not reveal
Dark fool of the human sciences! dreamer of the stars, and would-be decipherer of the heart and origin of things! those lights are but the glimmerings of such knowledge as is vouchsafed to Nature to work her way, to trace enough of the past and future to give providence to her designs. Judge, then, puppet as thou art, what lights are reserved for thee
Wherefore am I here
It is the forecast of thy soul -- the prescience of thy rushing doom -- the shadow of thy fate lengthening into eternity as declines from earth
What art thou
and my name is NECESSITY
To what dost thou bear me
To the Unknown
To happiness or to woe
As thou hast sown, so shalt thou reap
Dread thing, not so! If thou art the Ruler of Life, thine are my misdeeds, not mine
I am but the breath of God
Then is my wisdom vain
The husbandman accuses not fate, when, having sown thistles, he reaps not corn. Thou hast sown crime, accuse not fate if thou reapest not the harvest of virtue
THY VICTIM IS THY JUDGE! THE WORM THOU WOULDST CRUSH BECOMES THE SERPENT THAT DEVOURS THEE
Ha
do I dream still?-- Am I with the dead
Mighty Hermes -- no! Thou art with one death-like, but not dead. Recognize thy friend and slave
It was a dream, then
Well -- let me dream no more, or the day cannot compensate for the pangs of night. Woman, how camest thou here, and wherefore
I came to warn thee
Warn me! The dream lied not, then? Of what peril
Listen to me. Some evil hangs over this fated city. Fly while it be time. Thou knowest that I hold my home on that mountain beneath which old tradition saith there yet burn the fires of the river of Phlegethon; and in my cavern is a vast abyss, and in that abyss I have of late marked a red and dull stream creep slowly, slowly on; and heard many and mighty sounds hissing and roaring through the gloom. But last night, as I looked thereon, behold the stream was no longer dull, but intensely and fiercely luminous; and while I gazed, the beast that liveth with me, and was cowering by my side, uttered a shrill howl, and fell down and died, and the slaver and froth were round his lips. I crept back to my lair; but I distinctly heard, all the night, the rock shake and tremble; and, though the air was heavy and still, there were the hissing of pent winds, and the grinding as of wheels, beneath the ground. So, when I rose this morning at the very birth of dawn, I looked again down the abyss, and I saw vast fragments of stone borne black and floatingly over the lurid stream; and the stream itself was broader, fiercer, redder than the night before. Then I went forth, and ascended to the summit of the rock: and in that summit there appeared a sudden and vast hollow, which I had never perceived before, from which curled a dim, faint smoke; and the vapor was deathly, and I gasped, and sickened, and nearly died. I returned home. I took my gold and my drugs, and left the habitation of many years; for I remembered the dark Etruscan prophecy which saith, "When the mountain opens, the city shall fall -- when the smoke crowns the Hill of the Parched Fields, there shall be woe and weeping in the hearths of the Children of the Sea." Dread master, ere I leave these walls for some more distant dwelling, I come to thee. As thou livest, know I in my heart that the earthquake that sixteen years ago shook this city to its solid base, was but the forerunner of more deadly doom. The walls of Pompeii are built above the fields of the Dead, and the rivers of the sleepless Hell. Be warned and fly
Witch, I thank thee for thy care of one not ungrateful. On yon table stands a cup of gold; take it, it is thine. I dreamt not that there lived one, out of the priesthood of Isis, who would have saved Arbaces from destruction. The signs thou hast seen in the bed of the extinct volcano
surely tell of some coming danger to the city; perhaps another earthquake -- fiercer than the last. Be that as it may, there is a new reason for my hastening from these walls. After this day I will prepare my departure. Daughter of Etruria, whither wendest thou
I shall cross over to Herculaneum this day, and, wandering thence along the coast, shall seek out a new home. I am friendless: my two companions, the fox and the snake, are dead. Great Hermes, thou hast promised me twenty additional years of life
Aye
I have promised thee. But, woman
tell me, I pray thee, wherefore thou wishest to live? What sweets dost thou discover in existence
It is not life that is sweet, but death that is awful
Time wanes; I must prepare for the solemn spectacle of this day. Sister, farewell! enjoy thyself as thou canst over the ashes of life
This may be the last time we meet on earth; but whither flieth the flame when it leaves the ashes?-- Wandering to and fro, up and down, as an exhalation on the morass, the flame may be seen in the marshes of the lake below; and the witch and the Magian, the pupil and the master, the great one and the accursed one, may meet again. Farewell
Out, croaker
Callias
I am weary of Pompeii; I propose to quit it in three days, should the wind favor. Thou knowest the vessel that lies in the harbor which belonged to Narses, of Alexandria; I have purchased it of him. The day after tomorrow we shall begin to remove my stores
So soon! 'Tis well. Arbaces shall be obeyed -- and his ward, Ione
Accompanies me. Enough!-- Is the morning fair
Dim and oppressive; it will probably be intensely hot in the forenoon
The poor gladiators, and more wretched criminals! Descend, and see that the slaves are marshalled
Brutes
We have time yet, if the earthquake be nursing
August art
I have not consulted thy decrees since I passed the danger and the crisis they foretold. What matter?-- I know that henceforth all in my path is bright and smooth. Have not events already proved it? Away, doubt -- away, pity! Reflect O my heart -- reflect, for the future, but two images -- Empire and Ione
Oh
do you see that gigantic gladiator? how drolly he is dressed
Yes
he is a retiarius or netter; he is armed only, you see, with a three-pronged spear like a trident, and a net; he wears no armor, only the fillet and the tunic. He is a mighty man, and is to fight with Sporus, yon thick-set gladiator, with the round shield and drawn sword, but without body armor; he has not his helmet on now, in order that you may see his face -- how fearless it is!-- by-and-by he will fight with his vizor down
But surely a net and a spear are poor arms against a shield and sword
That shows how innocent you are, my dear Fulvia; the retiarius has generally the best of it
But who is yon handsome gladiator, nearly naked -- is it not quite improper? By Venus! but his limbs are beautifully shaped
It is Lydon, a young untried man! he has the rashness to fight yon other gladiator similarly dressed, or rather undressed -- Tetraides. They fight first in the Greek fashion, with the cestus; afterwards they put on armor, and try sword and shield
He is a proper man, this Lydon; and the women, I am sure, are on his side
So are not the experienced betters; Clodius offers three to one against him
Oh, Jove! how beautiful
Oh, beautiful! Who are these
The one is named Berbix -- he has conquered twelve times; the other assumes the arrogant name of Nobilior. They are both Gauls
Well done, Nobilior
Bravely struck, my Berbix
Nobilior! Nobilior
I have lost ten sestertia
Habet!-- he has it
It is a pity it was so soon over -- there was little enough for one's trouble
Yes -- I have no compassion for Berbix. Any one might have seen that Nobilior did but feint. Mark, they fix the fatal hook to the body -- they drag him away to the spoliarium -- they scatter new sand over the stage! Pansa regrets nothing more than that he is not rich enough to strew the arena with borax and cinnabar, as Nero used to do
Well, if it has been a brief battle, it is quickly succeeded. See my handsome Lydon on the arena -- ay -- and the net-bearer too, and the swordsmen! oh, charming
Guard thyself
You are unlucky to-day
you have lost one bet ---- you will lose another
By the gods! my bronzes go to the auctioneer if that is the case. I have no less than a hundred sestertia upon Tetraides. Ha, ha! see how he rallies! That was a home stroke: he has cut open Lydon's shoulder. A Tetraides!-- a Tetraides
But Lydon is not disheartened. By Pollux! how well he keeps his temper. See how dexterously he avoids those hammer-like hands!-- dodging now here, now there -- circling round and round. Ah, poor Lydon! he has it again
Three to one still on Tetraides! What say you, Lepidus
Well, nine sestertia to three -- be it so! What! again, Lydon? He stops -- he gasps for breath. By the gods, he is down. No -- he is again on his legs. Brave Lydon! Tetraides is encouraged -- he laughs loud -- he rushes on him
Fool -- success blinds him -- he should be cautious. Lydon's eye is like the lynx's
Ha, Clodius! saw you that? Your man totters! Another blow -- he falls -- he falls
Earth revives him, then. He is once more up; but the blood rolls down his face
By the thunderer! Lydon wins it. See how he presses on him! That blow on the temple would have crushed an ox! it has crushed Tetraides. He falls again -- he cannot move -- habet!-- habet
Habet
Take them out and give them the armor and swords
Noble editor
we fear that Tetraides will not recover in time; howbeit, we will try
Do so
In that case
hold Lydon a subdititius; and the first gladiator that is vanquished, let Lydon supply his place with the victor
Dost thou recognize the Romans, my Clodius; are they among the celebrated, or are they merely ordinary
Eumolpus is a good second-rate swordsman, my Lepidus. Nepimus, the lesser man, I have never seen before: but he is the son of one of the imperial fiscales, and brought up in a proper school; doubtless they will show sport, but I have no heart for the game; I cannot win back my money -- I am undone. Curses on that Lydon! who could have supposed he was so dexterous or so lucky
Well, Clodius, shall I take compassion on you, and accept your own terms with these Romans
An even ten sestertia on Eumolpus, then
What! when Nepimus is untried? Nay, nay; that is to bad
Well -- ten to eight
Agreed
My gallant boy
he has fought well: let us see how he does by-and-by. Hark! he is to fight the first victor. Now, old boy, pray the gods that that victor be neither of the Romans! nor, next to them, the giant Niger
Ho
the game is nearly over. If Eumolpus fights now the quiet fight, the other will gradually bleed himself away
But, thank the gods! he does not fight the backward fight. See!-- he presses hard upon Nepimus. By Mars! but Nepimus had him there! the helmet rang again!-- Clodius, I shall win
Why do I ever bet but at the dice
A Sporus!-- a Sporus
Yet, Lydon
if thou wouldst decline the combat with one so brave and tried, thou mayst have full liberty to do so. Eumolpus is not the antagonist that was originally decreed for thee. Thou knowest best how far thou canst cope with him. If thou failest, thy doom is honorable death; if thou conquerest, out of my own purse I will double the stipulated prize
Noble aedile
I shrink not from this combat. For the honour of Pompeii, I demand that one trained by its long-celebrated lanista shall do battle with this Roman
Four to one against Lydon
I would not take twenty to one! Why, Eumolpus is a very Achilles, and this poor fellow is but a tyro
Tush! it is impossible!-- the man must be drunk, even in the morning, to dream of such follies
Holla, old fellow
Prayers
Prayers!-- trifles! The time for gods to carry a man away in a cloud is gone now. Ha! Jupiter! what a blow! Thy side -- thy side!-- take care of thy side, Lydon
Habet!-- he has it
he has it
Be silent, child
Non habet!-- he is not wounded
I wish he were, if only to spite old surly Medon
Young man
desist; I will wound thee slightly -- then lower thy arms; thou hast propitiated the editor and the mob -- thou wilt be honorably saved
And my father still enslaved
No! death or his freedom
Look to him
he has done his duty
A true type of glory, and of its fate
Bring forth the lion and Glaucus the Athenian
No books to-day! no more Tibullus! no more Pindar for me! Pindar! alas, alas! the very name recalls those games to which our arena is the savage successor. Has it begun -- the amphitheatre? are its rites commenced
Long since, O Sallust! Did you not hear the trumpets and the trampling feet
Ay, ay; but the gods be thanked, I was drowsy, and had only to turn round to fall asleep again
The gladiators must have been long in the ring
The wretches! None of my people have gone to the spectacle
Assuredly not; your orders were too strict
That is well -- would the day were over! What is that letter yonder on the table
That! Oh, the letter brought to you last night, when you were -- too -- too
Drunk to read it, I suppose. No matter, it cannot be of much importance
Shall I open it for you, Sallust
Do: anything to divert my thoughts. Poor Glaucus
What! Greek
Nydia, the slave, to Sallust, the friend of Glaucus! I am a prisoner in the house of Arbaces. Hasten to the praetor! procure my release, and we shall yet save Glaucus from the lion. There is another prisoner within these walls, whose witness can exonerate the Athenian from the charge against him -- one who saw the crime -- who can prove the criminal in a villain hitherto unsuspected. Fly! hasten! quick! quick! Bring with you armed men, lest resistance be made, and a cunning and dexterous smith; for the dungeon of my fellow-prisoner is thick and strong. Oh! by thy right hand and thy father's ashes, lose not a moment
Great Jove
and this day -- nay, within this hour, perhaps, he dies. What is to be done? I will instantly to the praetor
Nay; not so. The praetor (as well as Pansa, the editor himself) is the creature of the mob; and the mob will not hear of delay; they will not be balked in the very moment of expectation. Besides, the publicity of the appeal would forewarn the cunning Egyptian. It is evident that he has some interest in these concealments. No; fortunately thy slaves are in thy house
I seize thy meaning
arm the slaves instantly. The streets are empty. We will ourselves hasten to the house of Arbaces, and release the prisoners. Quick! quick! What ho! Davus there! My gown and sandals, the papyrus and a reed
Hark! hearest thou that shout They are growling over their human blood
I hear; my heart grows sick; but the gods support me
The gods! O rash young man! in this hour recognize only the One God. Have I not taught thee in the dungeon, wept for thee, prayed for thee?-- in my zeal and in my agony, have I not thought more of thy salvation than my own
Brave friend
I have listened to thee with awe, with wonder, and with a secret tendency towards conviction. Had our lives been spared, I might gradually have weaned myself from the tenets of my own faith, and inclined to thine; but, in this last hour it were a craven thing, and a base, to yield to hasty terror what should only be the result of lengthened meditation. Were I to embrace thy creed, and cast down my father's gods, should I not be bribed by thy promise of heaven, or awed by thy threats of hell? Olinthus, no! Think we of each other with equal charity -- I honoring thy sincerity -- thou pitying my blindness or my obdurate courage. As have been my deeds, such will be my reward; and the Power or Powers above will not judge harshly of human error, when it is linked with honesty of purpose and truth of heart. Speak we no more of this. Hush! Dost thou hear them drag yon heavy body through the passage? Such as that clay will be ours soon
O Heaven! O Christ! already I behold ye
I tremble not -- I rejoice that the prison-house shall be soon broken
Glaucus the Athenian, thy time has come
the lion awaits thee
I am ready
Brother and co-mate, one last embrace! Bless me -- and farewell
Oh! could I have converted thee, I had not wept. Oh! that I might say to thee, "We two shall sup this night in Paradise
It may be so yet
They whom death part not, may meet yet beyond the grave: on the earth -- on the beautiful, the beloved earth, farewell for ever!-- Worthy officer, I attend you
Courage
thou art young, active, well knit. They give thee a weapon! despair not, and thou mayst yet conquer
By Venus, how warm it is
yet there is no sun. Would that those stupid sailors could have fastened up that gap in the awning
Oh! it is warm, indeed. I turn sick -- I faint
How is this? Take the goad, prick him forth, and then close the door of the den
Remove the Athenian
haste -- he is innocent! Arrest Arbaces the Egyptian -- HE is the murderer of Apaecides
Art thou mad, O Sallust
What means this raving
Remove the Athenian!-- Quick! or his blood be on your head. Praetor, delay, and you answer with your own life to the emperor! I bring with me the eye-witness to the death of the priest Apaecides. Room there!-- stand back!-- give way! People of Pompeii, fix every eye upon Arbaces -- there he sits! Room there for the priest Calenus
The priest Calenus!-- Calenus
Is it he? No -- it is a dead man
It is the priest Calenus
What hast thou to say
Arbaces of Egypt is the murderer of Apaecides, the priest of Isis; these eyes saw him deal the blow. It is from the dungeon into which he plunged me -- it is from the darkness and horror of a death by famine -- that the gods have raised me to proclaim his crime! Release the Athenian -- he is innocent
It is for this, then, that the lion spared him. A miracle! a miracle
A miracle; a miracle
remove the Athenian -- Arbaces to the lion
Arbaces to the lion
said the praetor. 'The gods lavish their wonders upon this day
Silence
who is there
The blind girl -- Nydia
it is her hand that has raised Calenus from the grave, and delivered Glaucus from the lion
Of this hereafter
Calenus, priest of Isis, thou accusest Arbaces of the murder of Apaecides
I do
Thou didst behold the deed
Praetor -- with these eyes
Arbaces to the lion
Praetor, this charge is so mad that it scarcely deserves reply. My first accuser is the noble Sallust -- the most intimate friend of Glaucus! my second is a priest; I revere his garb and calling -- but, people of Pompeii! ye know somewhat of the character of Calenus -- he is griping and gold-thirsty to a proverb; the witness of such men is to be bought! Praetor, I am innocent
Sallust
where found you Calenus
In the dungeons of Arbaces
Egyptian
thou didst, then, dare to imprison a priest of the gods -- and wherefore
Hear me
This man came to threaten that he would make against me the charge he has now made, unless I would purchase his silence with half my fortune: I remonstrated -- in vain. Peace there -- let not the priest interrupt me! Noble praetor -- and ye, O people! I was a stranger in the land -- I knew myself innocent of crime -- but the witness of a priest against me might yet destroy me. In my perplexity I decoyed him to the cell whence he has been released, on pretence that it was the coffer-house of my gold. I resolved to detain him there until the fate of the true criminal was sealed, and his threats could avail no longer; but I meant no worse. I may have erred -- but who amongst ye will not acknowledge the equity of self-preservation? Were I guilty, why was the witness of this priest silent at the trial?-- then I had not detained or concealed him. Why did he not proclaim my guilt when I proclaimed that of Glaucus? Praetor, this needs an answer. For the rest, I throw myself on your laws. I demand their protection. Remove hence the accused and the accuser. I will willingly meet, and cheerfully abide by, the decision of the legitimate tribunal. This is no place for further parley
He says right
Ho! guards -- remove Arbaces -- guard Calenus! Sallust, we hold you responsible for your accusation. Let the sports be resumed
What
shall Isis be thus contemned? Shall the blood of Apaecides yet cry for vengeance? Shall justice be delayed now, that it may be frustrated hereafter? Shall the lion be cheated of his lawful prey? A god! a god!-- I feel the god rush to my lips! To the lion -- to the lion with Arbaces
It is a god that inspires the holy man! To the lion with the Egyptian
Behold
behold how the gods protect the guiltless! The fires of the avenging Orcus burst forth against the false witness of my accusers
It is I who have saved thee
Nydia, my child!-- my preserver
Oh, let me feel thy touch -- thy breath! Yes, yes, thou livest! We are not too late! That dread door, methought it would never yield! and Calenus -- oh! his voice was as the dying wind among tombs -- we had to wait -- gods! it seemed hours ere food and wine restored to him something of strength. But thou livest! thou livest yet! And I -- I have saved thee
The mountain! the earthquake
Arise! arise! my friend
Save thyself, and fly! See! Nature is thy dread deliverer
This is the hand of God -- God be praised
Fly! seek thy brethren!-- Concert with them thy escape. Farewell
Who
calls upon the son of God
Medon
arise, and fly! God is forth upon the wings of the elements! The New Gomorrah is doomed!-- Fly, ere the fires consume thee
He was ever so full of life!-- he cannot be dead! Come hither!-- place your hand on his heart!-- sure it beats yet
Brother, the soul has fled! We will remember it in our prayers! Thou canst not reanimate the dumb clay! Come, come -- hark! while I speak, yon crashing walls!-- hark! yon agonizing cries! Not a moment is to be lost!-- Come
I hear nothing
The poor boy, his love murdered him
Come! come! forgive this friendly force
What! Who could sever the father from the son
Go
Go!-- we must be alone
Alas
Death hath severed ye already
No, no, no
Death has been more kind
Hist!-- Calenus!-- an awful hour
Ay! by my father's head! Who art thou?-- thy face is dim, and thy voice is strange. 'Not know thy Burbo?-- fie
Gods!-- how the darkness gathers! Ho, ho!-- by yon terrific mountain, what sudden blazes of lightning
Tush!-- thou believest not these things, Calenus! Now is the time to make our fortune
Ha
Listen! Thy temple is full of gold and precious mummeries!-- let us load ourselves with them, and then hasten to the sea and embark! None will ever ask an account of the doings of this day
Burbo, thou art right! Hush, and follow me into the temple. Who cares now -- who sees now -- whether thou art a priest or not? Follow, and we will share
A man who has hungered forty-eight hours
has an appetite even in such a time
Wilt thou never have done
thy face purples and thine eyes start already
It is not every day one has such a right to be hungry. Oh, Jupiter! what sound is that?-- the hissing of fiery water! What! does the cloud give rain as well as flame! Ha!-- what! shrieks? And, Burbo, how silent all is now! Look forth
They are dead
I thought not the danger was so near and fatal
We must to our task, and away
So much the better
the more will be my booty
If I can gain the open country
doubtless there will be various vehicles beyond the gate, and Herculaneum is not far distant. Thank Mercury! I have little to lose, and that little is about me
Holla!-- help there -- help
I have fallen down -- my torch has gone out -- my slaves have deserted me. I am Diomed -- the rich Diomed -- ten thousand sesterces to him who helps me
Ill fortune to thee -- let me go, fool
Oh, help me up!-- give me thy hand
There -- rise
Is this Clodius? I know the voice! Whither fliest thou
Towards Herculaneum
Blessed be the gods! our way is the same, then, as far as the gate. Why not take refuge in my villa? Thou knowest the long range of subterranean cellars beneath the basement -- that shelter, what shower can penetrate
You speak well
And by storing the cellar with food, we can remain there even some days, should these wondrous storms endure so long
Oh, blessed be he who invented gates to a city
See!-- they have placed a light within yon arch: by that let us guide our steps
Oh, Diomed
shelter! shelter! See
see this little one!-- it is mine!-- the child of shame! I have never owned it till this hour. But now I remember I am a mother! I have plucked it from the cradle of its nurse: she had fled! Who could think of the babe in such an hour, but she who bore it? Save it! save it
Curses on thy shrill voice! Away, harlot
Nay, girl
follow if thou wilt. This way -- this way -- to the vaults
Alas! alas
I can go no farther; my steps sink among the scorching cinders. Fly, dearest!-- beloved, fly! and leave me to my fate
Hush, my betrothed! my bride! Death with thee is sweeter than life without thee! Yet, whither -- oh! whither, can we direct ourselves through the gloom? Already it seems that we have made but a circle, and are in the very spot which we quitted an hour ago
O gods! yon rock -- see, it hath riven the roof before us! It is death to move through the streets
Blessed lightning! See, Ione -- see! the portico of the Temple of Fortune is before us. Let us creep beneath it; it will protect us from the showers
Who is there
Yet, what matters?-- the crush of the ruined world forbids to us friends or foes
Woe! woe
Behold! the Lord descendeth to judgment! He maketh fire come down from heaven in the sight of men! Woe! woe! ye strong and mighty! Woe to ye of the fasces and the purple! Woe to the idolater and the worshipper of the beast! Woe to ye who pour forth the blood of saints, and gloat over the death-pangs of the sons of God! Woe to the harlot of the sea!-- woe! woe
Woe to the harlot of the sea!-- woe! woe
Father
if you cannot move more swiftly, I must leave you, or we both perish
Fly, boy, then, and leave thy sire
But I cannot fly to starve; give me thy bag of gold
Wretch! wouldst thou rob thy father
Ay! who can tell the tale in this hour? Miser, perish
Ye gods
are ye blind, then, even in the dark? Such crimes may well confound the guiltless with the guilty in one common ruin. Ione, on!-- on
Oh, Glaucus! my beloved! my own!-- take me to thy arms! One embrace! let me feel thy arms around me -- and in that embrace let me die -- I can no more
For my sake, for my life -- courage, yet, sweet Ione -- my life is linked with thine: and see -- torches -- this way! Lo! how they brave the Wind! Ha! they live through the storm -- doubtless, fugitives to the sea! we will join them
We are nearing the sea
Liberty and wealth to each slave who survives this day! Courage! I tell you that the gods themselves have assured me of deliverance. On
By my fathers
Fate smiles upon me even through these horrors, and, amidst the dreadest aspects of woe and death, bodes me happiness and love. Away, Greek! I claim my ward, Ione
Traitor and murderer
Nemesis hath guided thee to my revenge!-- a just sacrifice to the shades of Hades, that now seem loosed on earth. Approach -- touch but the hand of Ione, and thy weapon shall be as a reed -- I will tear thee limb from limb
Why
should I hesitate? Did not the stars foretell the only crisis of imminent peril to which I was subjected?-- Is not that peril past
The soul
can brave the wreck of worlds and the wrath of imaginary gods! By that soul will I conquer to the last! Advance, slaves!-- Athenian, resist me, and thy blood be on thine own head! Thus, then, I regain Ione
What
is this the brave blind girl! By Bacchus, she must not be left here to die! Up, my Thessalian! So -- so. Are you hurt? That's well! Come along with us! we are for the shore
O Sallust! it is thy voice! The gods be thanked! Glaucus! Glaucus! Glaucus! have ye seen him
Not I. He is doubtless out of the city by this time. The gods who saved him from the lion will save him from the burning mountain
The world is to be destroyed by fire
Stoic and Epicurean wisdom have alike agreed in this prediction: and the hour is come
Yea; the hour is come
The hour is come
THE HOUR IS COME
What avails thy liberty now, blind girl
Who art thou? canst thou tell me of Glaucus
Ay; I saw him but a few minutes since
Blessed be thy head! where
Crouched beneath the arch of the forum -- dead or dying!-- gone to rejoin Arbaces, who is no more
Who calls on me? Is it the voice of the Shades? Lo! I am prepared
Arise! follow me! Take my hand! Glaucus, thou shalt be saved
Nydia still? Ah! thou, then, art safe
May the gods bless you, Athenian
may you be happy with your beloved one!-- may you sometimes remember Nydia! Alas! she is of no further use on earth
It is the kiss of death
it is welcome
No, no
I cannot endure it; this jealous, exacting love -- it shatters my whole soul in madness! I might harm him again -- wretch that I was! I have saved him -- twice saved him -- happy, happy thought: why not die happy?-- it is the last glad thought I can ever know. Oh! sacred Sea! I hear thy voice invitingly -- it hath a freshening and joyous call. They say that in thy embrace is dishonour -- that thy victims cross not the fatal Styx -- be it so!-- I would not meet him in the Shades, for I should meet him still with her! Rest -- rest -- rest! there is no other Elysium for a heart like mine
You speak of the growing sect of the Christians in Rome. Sallust, to you I may confide my secret; I have pondered much over that faith -- I have adopted it. After the destruction of Pompeii, I met once more with Olinthus -- saved, alas! only for a day, and falling afterwards a martyr to the indomitable energy of his zeal. In my preservation from the lion and the earthquake he taught me to behold the hand of the unknown God! I listened -- believed -- adored! My own, my more than ever beloved Ione, has also embraced the creed!-- a creed, Sallust, which, shedding light over this world, gathers its concentrated glory, like a sunset, over the next! We know that we are united in the soul, as in the flesh, for ever and for ever! Ages may roll on, our very dust be dissolved, the earth shrivelled like a scroll; but round and round the circle of eternity rolls the wheel of life -- imperishable -- unceasing! And as the earth from the sun, so immortality drinks happiness from virtue, which is the smile upon the face of God! Visit me, then, Sallust; bring with you the learned scrolls of Epicurus, Pythagoras, Diogenes; arm yourself for defeat; and let us, amidst the groves of Academus, dispute, under a surer guide than any granted to our fathers, on the mighty problem of the true ends of life and the nature of the soul. 'Ione -- at that name my heart yet beats!-- Ione is by my side as I write: I lift my eyes, and meet her smile. The sunlight quivers over Hymettus: and along my garden I hear the hum of the summer bees. Am I happy, ask you? Oh, what can Rome give me equal to what I possess at Athens? Here, everything awakens the soul and inspires the affections -- the trees, the waters, the hills, the skies, are those of Athens!-- fair, though mourning-mother of the Poetry and the Wisdom of the World. In my hall I see the marble faces of my ancestors. In the Ceramicus, I survey their tombs! In the streets, I behold the hand of Phidias and the soul of Pericles. Harmodius, Aristogiton -- they are everywhere -- but in our hearts!-- in mine, at least, they shall not perish! If anything can make me forget that I am an Athenian and not free, it is partly the soothing -- the love -- watchful, vivid, sleepless -- of Ione -- a love that has taken a new sentiment in our new creed -- a love which none of our poets, beautiful though they be, had shadowed forth in description; for mingled with religion, it partakes of religion; it is blended with pure and unworldly thoughts; it is that which we may hope to carry through eternity, and keep, therefore, white and unsullied, that we may not blush to confess it to our God! This is the true type of the dark fable of our Grecian Eros and Psyche -- it is, in truth, the soul asleep in the arms of love. And if this, our love, support me partly against the fever of the desire for freedom, my religion supports me more; for whenever I would grasp the sword and sound the shell, and rush to a new Marathon (but Marathon without victory), I feel my despair at the chilling thought of my country's impotence -- the crushing weight of the Roman yoke, comforted, at least, by the thought that earth is but the beginning of life -- that the glory of a few years matters little in the vast space of eternity -- that there is no perfect freedom till the chains of clay fall from the soul, and all space, all time, become its heritage and domain. Yet, Sallust, some mixture of the soft Greek blood still mingles with my faith. I can share not the zeal of those who see crime and eternal wrath in men who cannot believe as they. I shudder not at the creed of others. I dare not curse them -- I pray the Great Father to convert. This lukewarmness exposes me to some suspicion amongst the Christians: but I forgive it; and, not offending openly the prejudices of the crowd, I am thus enabled to protect my brethren from the danger of the law, and the consequences of their own zeal. If moderation seem to me the natural creature of benevolence, it gives, also, the greatest scope to beneficence. 

'Such, then, O Sallust! is my life -- such my opinions. In this manner I greet existence and await death. And thou, glad-hearted and kindly pupil of Epicurus, thou... But come hither, and see what enjoyments, what hopes are ours -- and not the splendor of imperial banquets, nor the shouts of the crowded circus, nor the noisy forum, nor the glittering theatre, nor the luxuriant gardens, nor the voluptuous baths of Rome -- shall seem to thee to constitute a life of more vivid and uninterrupted happiness than that which thou so unreasonably pitiest as the career of Glaucus the Athenian!-- Farewell
</text>
