<text>
Edward is rich
no man can serve two masters
WILLIAM CRIMSWORTH
Concern
William, you are a rebel against circumstances; you are a fool, and know not what you want; you have chosen trade and you shall be a tradesman. Look
Look at the sooty smoke in that hollow, and know that there is your post! There you cannot dream, you cannot speculate and theorize -- there you shall out and work
Steighton, you may leave the room; I have some business to transact with this gentleman. Come back when you hear the bell
You are come down to ---- shire to learn to be a tradesman
Yes, I am
Have you made up your mind on the point? Let me know that at once
Yes
Well, I am not bound to help you, but I have a place here vacant, if you are qualified for it. I will take you on trial. What can you do? Do you know anything besides that useless trash of college learning -- Greek, Latin, and so forth
I have studied mathematics
Stuff! I dare say you have
I can read and write French and German
Hum
Can you read that
It is well
that you are acquainted with something useful, something that may enable you to earn your board and lodging: since you know French and German, I will take you as second clerk to manage the foreign correspondence of the house. I shall give you a good salary90 -- l. a year -- and now
hear once for all what I have to say about our relationship, and all that sort of humbug! I must have no nonsense on that point; it would never suit me. I shall excuse you nothing on the plea of being my brother; if I find you stupid, negligent, dissipated, idle, or possessed of any faults detrimental to the interests of the house, I shall dismiss you as I would any other clerk. Ninety pounds a year are good wages, and I expect to have the full value of my money out of you; remember, too, that things are on a practical footing in my establishment -- business-like habits, feelings, and ideas, suit me best. Do you understand
Partly
I suppose you mean that I am to do my work for my wages; not to expect favour from you, and not to depend on you for any help but what I earn; that suits me exactly, and on these terms I will consent to be your clerk
You perhaps expect to be accommodated with apartments at Crimsworth Hall, and to go and come with me in the gig. I wish you, however, to be aware that such an arrangement would be quite inconvenient to me. I like to have the seat in my gig at liberty for any gentleman whom for business reasons I may wish to take down to the hall for a night or so. You will seek out lodgings in X
Of course I shall seek out lodgings in X
It would not suit me either to lodge at Crimsworth Hall
You are poor enough, I suppose; how do you expect to live till your quarter's salary becomes due
I shall get on
How do you expect to live
As I can, Mr. Crimsworth
Get into debt at your peril! that's all
For aught I know you may have extravagant aristocratic habits: if you have, drop them; I tolerate nothing of the sort here, and I will never give you a shilling extra, whatever liabilities you may incur -- mind that
Yes, Mr. Crimsworth, you will find I have a good memory
I will place my cup under this continual dropping; it shall stand there still and steady; when full, it will run over of itself -- meantime patience. Two things are certain. I am capable of performing the work Mr. Crimsworth has set me; I can earn my wages conscientiously, and those wages are sufficient to enable me to live. As to the fact of my brother assuming towards me the bearing of a proud, harsh master, the fault is his, not mine; and shall his injustice, his bad feeling, turn me at once aside from the path I have chosen? No; at least, ere I deviate, I will advance far enough to see whither my career tends. As yet I am only pressing in at the entrance -- a strait gate enough; it ought to have a good terminus
Mr. Steighton
show Mr. William the letters from Voss, Brothers, and give him English copies of the answers; he will translate them
a joined Methodist
Humph! there's some sense in that face
Good evening, Mr. Hunsden
Where are you going
He thinks he may speak as he likes to a poor clerk; but my mood is not, perhaps, so supple as he deems it, and his rough freedom pleases me not at all
Stay here awhile
it is so hot in the dancing-room; besides, you don't dance; you have not had a partner to-night
That is a good picture
Do you consider the face pretty
Pretty! no -- how can it be pretty, with sunk eyes and hollow cheeks? but it is peculiar; it seems to think. You could have a talk with that woman, if she were alive, on other subjects than dress, visiting, and compliments
Not that I admire a head of that sort; it wants character and force; there's too much of the sen-si-tive (so he articulated it, curling his lip at the same time) in that mouth; besides, there is Aristocrat written on the brow and defined in the figure; I hate your aristocrats
You think, then, Mr. Hunsden, that patrician descent may be read in a distinctive cast of form and features
Patrician descent be hanged! Who doubts that your lordlings may have their 'distinctive cast of form and features' as much as we ---- shire tradesmen have ours? But which is the best? Not theirs assuredly. As to their women, it is a little different: they cultivate beauty from childhood upwards, and may by care and training attain to a certain degree of excellence in that point, just like the oriental odalisques. Yet even this superiority is doubtful. Compare the figure in that frame with Mrs. Edward Crimsworth -- which is the finer animal
Compare yourself and Mr. Edward Crimsworth, Mr Hunsden
Oh, Crimsworth is better filled up than I am, I know besides he has a straight nose, arched eyebrows, and all that; but these advantages -- if they are advantages -- he did not inherit from his mother, the patrician, but from his father, old Crimsworth, who, MY father says, was as veritable a ---- shire blue-dyer as ever put indigo in a vat yet withal the handsomest man in the three Ridings. It is you, William, who are the aristocrat of your family, and you are not as fine a fellow as your plebeian brother by long chalk
How do you happen to know that I am Mr. Crimsworth's brother? I thought you and everybody else looked upon me only in the light of a poor clerk
Well, and so we do; and what are you but a poor clerk? You do Crimsworth's work, and he gives you wages -- shabby wages they are, too
This world is an absurd one
Why so, Mr. Hunsden
Is it your intention to become a tradesman
It was my serious intention three months ago
Humph! the more fool you -- you look like a tradesman! What a practical business-like face you have
My face is as the Lord made it, Mr. Hunsden
The Lord never made either year face or head for X ---- What good can your bumps of ideality, comparison, self-esteem, conscientiousness, do you here? But if you like Bigben Close, stay there; it's your own affair, not mine
Perhaps I have no choice
Well, I care nought about it -- it will make little difference to me what you do or where you go; but I'm cool now -- I want to dance again; and I see such a fine girl sitting in the corner of the sofa there by her mamma; see if I don't get her for a partner in a jiffy! There's Waddy -- Sam Waddy making up to her; won't I cut him out
I am baffled
William, your life is intolerable
What can you do to alter it
That slut of a servant has neglected it as usual
and I shall see nothing but pale ashes if I go in; it is a fine starlight night -- I will walk a little farther
What the deuce is the hurry? Just so must Lot have left Sodom, when he expected fire to pour down upon it, out of burning brass clouds
You see I am meditating in the field at eventide
God knows it's cool work! especially as instead of Rebecca on a camel's hump, with bracelets on her arms and a ring in her nose, Fate sends me only a counting-house clerk, in a grey tweed wrapper
Mr. Hunsden! good evening
Good evening, indeed! yes, but you would have passed me without recognition if I had not been so civil as to speak first
I did not know you
A famous excuse! You ought to have known me; I knew you, though you were going ahead like a steam-engine. Are the police after you
It wouldn't be worth their while; I'm not of consequence enough to attract them. "Alas, poor shepherd! Alack and well-a-day! What a theme for regret, and how down in the mouth you must be, judging from the sound of your voice! But since you're not running from the police, from whom are you running? the devil
On the contrary, I am going post to him
That is well -- you're just in luck: this is Tuesday evening; there are scores of market gigs and carts returning to Dinneford to-night; and he, or some of his, have a seat in all regularly; so, if you'll step in and sit half-an-hour in my bachelor's parlour, you may catch him as he passes without much trouble. I think though you'd better let him alone to-night, he'll have so many customers to serve; Tuesday is his busy day in X ---- and Dinneford; come in at all events
Do you really wish me to go in
As you please -- I'm alone; your company for an hour or two would be agreeable to me; but, if you don't choose to favour me so far, I'll not press the point. I hate to bore any one
You shall have something
for you ought to feel disposed for refreshment after walking nobody knows how far on such a Canadian night as this; but it shall not be brandy-and-water, and it shall not be a bottle of port, nor ditto of sherry. I keep no such poison. I have Rhein-wein for my own drinking, and you may choose between that and coffee
Give me some coffee, Mr. Hunsden
morale
William! what a fool you are to live in those dismal lodgings of Mrs. King's, when you might take rooms here in Grove Street, and have a garden like me
I should be too far from the mill
What of that? It would do you good to walk there and back two or three times a day; besides, are you such a fossil that you never wish to see a flower or a green leaf
I am no fossil
Do you, Mr. Hunsden
Don't think to pose me with short questions; your case and mine are diametrically different, and it is nonsense attempting to draw a parallel. I say, that when a man endures patiently what ought to be unendurable, he is a fossil
Whence do you acquire the knowledge of my patience
Why, man, do you suppose you are a mystery? The other night you seemed surprised at my knowing to what family you belonged; now you find subject for wonderment in my calling you patient. What do you think I do with my eyes and ears? I've been in your counting-house more than once when Crimsworth has treated you like a dog; called for a book, for instance, and when you gave him the wrong one, or what he chose to consider the wrong one, flung it back almost in your face; desired you to shut or open the door as if you had been his flunkey; to say nothing of your position at the party about a month ago, where you had neither place nor partner, but hovered about like a poor, shabby hanger-on; and how patient you were under each and all of these circumstances
Well, Mr. Hunsden, what then
I can hardly tell you what then; the conclusion to be drawn as to your character depends upon the nature of the motives which guide your conduct; if you are patient because you expect to make something eventually out of Crimsworth, notwithstanding his tyranny, or perhaps by means of it, you are what the world calls an interested and mercenary, but may be a very wise fellow; if you are patient because you think it a duty to meet insult with submission, you are an essential sap, and in no shape the man for my money; if you are patient because your nature is phlegmatic, flat, inexcitable, and that you cannot get up to the pitch of resistance, why, God made you to be crushed; and lie down by all means, and lie flat, and let Juggernaut ride well over you
Yes
I told you that you were an aristocrat, and who but an aristocrat would laugh such a laugh as that, and look such a look? A laugh frigidly jeering; a look lazily mutinous; gentlemanlike irony, patrician resentment. What a nobleman you would have made, William Crimsworth! You are cut out for one; pity Fortune has baulked Nature! Look at the features, figure, even to the hands -- distinction all over -- ugly distinction! Now, if you'd only an estate and a mansion, and a park, and a title, how you could play the exclusive, maintain the rights of your class, train your tenantry in habits of respect to the peerage, oppose at every step the advancing power of the people, support your rotten order, and be ready for its sake to wade knee-deep in churls' blood; as it is, you've no power; you can do nothing; you're wrecked and stranded on the shores of commerce; forced into collision with practical men, with whom you cannot cope, for YOU'LL NEVER BE A TRADESMAN
You'll make nothing by trade
nothing more than the crust of dry bread and the draught of fair water on which you now live; your only chance of getting a competency lies in marrying a rich widow, or running away with an heiress
I leave such shifts to be put in practice by those who devise them
And even that is hopeless
What widow would have you? Much less, what heiress? You're not bold and venturesome enough for the one, nor handsome and fascinating enough for the other. You think perhaps you look intelligent and polished; carry your intellect and refinement to market, and tell me in a private note what price is bid for them
What! Are you going, lad? Well, good-night: you'll find the door
climax
Come, William Crimsworth
come, get a clear notion of what you would have, or what you would not have. You talk of a climax; pray has your endurance reached its climax? It is not four months old. What a fine resolute fellow you imagined yourself to be when you told Tynedale you would tread in your father's steps, and a pretty treading you are likely to make of it! How well you like X ----! Just at this moment how redolent of pleasant associations are its streets, its shops, its warehouses, its factories! How the prospect of this day cheers you! Letter-copying till noon, solitary dinner at your lodgings, letter-copying till evening, solitude; for you neither find pleasure in Brown's, nor Smith's, nor Nicholl's, nor Eccle's company; and as to Hunsden, you fancied there was pleasure to be derived from his society -- he! he! how did you like the taste you had of him last night? was it sweet? Yet he is a talented, an original-minded man, and even he does not like you; your self-respect defies you to like him; he has always seen you to disadvantage; he always will see you to disadvantage; your positions are unequal, and were they on the same level your minds could not; assimilate; never hope, then, to gather the honey of friendship out of that thorn-guarded plant. Hello, Crimsworth! where are your thoughts tending? You leave the recollection of Hunsden as a bee would a rock, as a bird a desert; and your aspirations spread eager wings towards a land of visions where, now in advancing daylight -- in X ---- daylight -- you dare to dream of congeniality, repose, union. Those three you will never meet in this world; they are angels. The souls of just men made perfect may encounter them in heaven, but your soul will never be made perfect. Eight o'clock strikes! your hands are thawed, get to work
Work? why should I work
I cannot please though I toil like a slave
Work, work
I may work, it will do no good
You'll stay here a minute
It is time to go home
You'll stay here
And take your hand off that key! leave it in the lock
Why
What cause is there for changing my usual plans
Do as I order
and no questions! You are my servant, obey me! What have you been about
You may look, if you wish to know
There is the open desk, there are the papers
Confound your insolence! What have you been about
Your work, and have done it well
Hypocrite and twaddler! Smooth-faced, snivelling greasehorn
Come, Edward Crimsworth, enough of this. It is time you and I wound up accounts. I have now given your service three months' trial, and I find it the most nauseous slavery under the sun. Seek another clerk. I stay no longer
What I do you dare to give me notice? Stop at least for your wages
I've found you out and know you thoroughly, you mean, whining lickspittle! What have you been saying all over X ---- about me? answer me that
You? I have neither inclination nor temptation to talk about you
Down with your whip
and explain this instant what you mean
Sirrah! to whom are you speaking
To you. There is no one else present, I think. You say I have been calumniating you -- complaining of your low wages and bad treatment. Give your grounds for these assertions
Grounds I you shall have them; and turn to the light that I may see your brazen face blush black, when you hear yourself proved to be a liar and a hypocrite. At a public meeting in the Town-hall yesterday, I had the pleasure of hearing myself insulted by the speaker opposed to me in the question under discussion, by allusions to my private affairs; by cant about monsters without natural affection, family despots, and such trash; and when I rose to answer, I was met by a shout from the filthy mob, where the mention of your name enabled me at once to detect the quarter in which this base attack had originated. When I looked round, I saw that treacherous villain, Hunsden acting as fugleman. I detected you in close conversation with Hunsden at my house a month ago, and I know that you were at Hunsden's rooms last night. Deny it if you dare
Oh, I shall not deny it! And if Hunsden hounded on the people to hiss you, he did quite right. You deserve popular execration; for a worse man, a harder master, a more brutal brother than you are has seldom existed
Sirrah! sirrah
Touch me, and I'll have you up before the nearest magistrate
Take your hat
Take what belongs to you, and go out at that door; get away to your parish, you pauper: beg, steal, starve, get transported, do what you like; but at your peril venture again into my sight! If ever I hear of your setting foot on an inch of ground belonging to me, I'll hire a man to cane you
It is not likely you'll have the chance; once off your premises, what temptation can I have to return to them? I leave a prison, I leave a tyrant; I leave what is worse than the worst that can lie before me, so no fear of my coming back
Go, or I'll make you
What are you abstracting from that desk
Leave all behind in its place, or I'll send for a policeman to search you
Look sharp about it, then
Good evening
You owe me a debt of gratitude
Do I
I hope it is not a large one, for I am much too poor to charge myself with heavy liabilities of any kind
Then declare yourself bankrupt at once, for this liability is a ton weight at least. When I came in I found your fire out, and I had it lit again, and made that sulky drab of a servant stay and blow at it with the bellows till it had burnt up properly; now, say 'Thank you
Not till I have had something to eat; I can thank nobody while I am so famished
Cold meat
what a glutton you are; man! Meat with tea! you'll die of eating too much
No, Mr. Hunsden, I shall not
It is over-eating that makes you so ill-tempered
How do you know
It is like you to give a pragmatical opinion without being acquainted with any of the circumstances of the case; I have had no dinner
Poor thing
It has had no dinner, has it? What! I suppose its master would not let it come home. Did Crimsworth order you to fast by way of punishment, William
that he need not sit there staring, but might come to the table and do as I did, if he liked
But I don't like in the least
And some more coal
Mr. Crimsworth shall keep a good fire while I stay
Well
You are out of work, I suppose
Yes
Yes -- thanks to you, I am. Crimsworth turned me off at a minute's notice, owing to some interference of yours at a public meeting, I understand
Ah! what! he mentioned that? He observed me signalling the lads, did he? What had he to say about his friend Hunsden -- anything sweet
He called you a treacherous villain
Oh, he hardly knows me yet! I'm one of those shy people who don't come out all at once, and he is only just beginning to make my acquaintance, but he'll find I've some good qualities -- excellent ones! The Hunsdens were always unrivalled at tracking a rascal; a downright, dishonourable villain is their natural prey -- they could not keep off him wherever they met him; you used the word pragmatical just now -- that word is the property of our family; it has been applied to us from generation to generation; we have fine noses for abuses; we scent a scoundrel a mile off; we are reformers born, radical reformers; and it was impossible for me to live in the same town with Crimsworth, to come into weekly contact with him, to witness some of his conduct to you (for whom personally I care nothing; I only consider the brutal injustice with which he violated your natural claim to equality)-- I say it was impossible for me to be thus situated and not feel the angel or the demon of my race at work within me. I followed my instinct, opposed a tyrant, and broke a chain
Are you grateful to me
a dry-hearted aristocratic scamp
Your bread was dirty, man
dirty and unwholesome! It came through the hands of a tyrant, for I tell you Crimsworth is a tyrant,-- a tyrant to his workpeople, a tyrant to his clerks, and will some day be a tyrant to his wife
Nonsense! bread is bread, and a salary is a salary. I've lost mine, and through your means
There's sense in what you say, after all
I must say I am rather agreeably surprised to hear you make so practical an observation as that last. I had imagined now, from my previous observation of your character, that the sentimental delight you would have taken in your newly regained liberty would, for a while at least, have effaced all ideas of forethought and prudence. I think better of you for looking steadily to the needful
Looking steadily to the needful! How can I do otherwise? I must live, and to live I must have what you call 'the needful,' which I can only get by working. I repeat it, you have taken my work from me
What do you mean to do
You have influential relations; I suppose they'll soon provide you with another place
Influential relations? Who? I should like to know their names
The Seacombes
Stuff! I have cut them
I have
and that definitively
You must mean they have cut you, William
As you please. They offered me their patronage on condition of my entering the Church; I declined both the terms and the recompence; I withdrew from my cold uncles, and preferred throwing myself into my elder brother's arms, from whose affectionate embrace I am now torn by the cruel intermeddling of a stranger -- of yourself, in short
Oh, I see
Seriously, have you then nothing to expect from the Seacombes
Yes, rejection and repulsion. Why do you ask me twice? How can hands stained with the ink of a counting-house, soiled with the grease of a wool-warehouse, ever again be permitted to come into contact with aristocratic palms
There would be a difficulty, no doubt; still you are such a complete Seacombe in appearance, feature, language, almost manner, I wonder they should disown you
They have disowned me; so talk no more about it
Do you regret it, William
No
Because they are not people with whom I could ever have had any sympathy
I say you are one of them
That merely proves that you know nothing at all about it; I am my mother's son, but not my uncles' nephew
Still -- one of your uncles is a lord, though rather an obscure and not a very wealthy one, and the other a right honourable: you should consider worldly interest
Nonsense, Mr. Hunsden. You know or may know that even had I desired to be submissive to my uncles, I could not have stooped with a good enough grace ever to have won their favour. I should have sacrificed my own comfort and not have gained their patronage in return
Very likely -- so you calculated your wisest plan was to follow your own devices at once
Exactly. I must follow my own devices -- I must, till the day of my death; because I can neither comprehend, adopt, nor work out those of other people
Well
I wonder what time it is
I have an appointment for seven o'clock
Three quarters past six by my watch
Well, then I'll go
You'll not meddle with trade again
No; I think not
You would be a fool if you did. Probably, after all, you'll think better of your uncles' proposal and go into the Church
A singular regeneration must take place in my whole inner and outer man before I do that. A good clergyman is one of the best of men
Indeed! Do you think so
I do, and no mistake. But I have not the peculiar points which go to make a good clergyman; and rather than adopt a profession for which I have no vocation, I would endure extremities of hardship from poverty
You're a mighty difficult customer to suit. You won't be a tradesman or a parson; you can't be a lawyer, or a doctor, or a gentleman, because you've no money. I'd recommend you to travel
What! without money
You must travel in search of money, man. You can speak French- -with a vile English accent, no doubt -- still, you can speak it. Go on to the Continent, and see what will turn up for you there
God knows I should like to go
Go: what the deuce hinders you? You may get to Brussels, for instance, for five or six pounds, if you know how to manage with economy
Necessity would teach me if I didn't
Go, then, and let your wits make a way for you when you get there. I know Brussels almost as well as I know X ----, and I am sure it would suit such a one as you better than London
But occupation, Mr. Hunsden! I must go where occupation is to be had; and how could I get recommendation, or introduction, or employment at Brussels
There speaks the organ of caution. You hate to advance a step before you know every inch of the way. You haven't a sheet of paper and a pen-and-ink
I hope so
There, Prudence, there's a pioneer to hew down the first rough difficulties of your path. I know well enough, lad, you are not one of those who will run their neck into a noose without seeing how they are to get it out again, and you're right there. A reckless man is my aversion, and nothing should ever persuade me to meddle with the concerns of such a one. Those who are reckless for themselves are generally ten times more so for their friends
This is a letter of introduction, I suppose
Yes. With that in your pocket you will run no risk of finding yourself in a state of absolute destitution, which, I know, you will regard as a degradation -- so should I, for that matter. The person to whom you will present it generally has two or three respectable places depending upon his recommendation
That will just suit me
Well, and where's your gratitude
don't you know how to say 'Thank you
I've fifteen pounds and a watch, which my godmother, whom I never saw, gave me eighteen years ago
But your gratitude
I shall be off presently, Mr. Hunsden -- to-morrow, if all be well: I'll not stay a day longer in X ---- than I'm obliged
Very good -- but it will be decent to make due acknowledgment for the assistance you have received; be quick! It is just going to strike seven: I'm waiting to be thanked
The lad is a heathen
Let him go
we shall meet again some day
Go forth and seek another service
Mr. Brown, Numero --, Rue Royale
Yes
Clerk and shopman
No
I know of no place in Brussels
unless indeed you were disposed to turn your attention to teaching. I am acquainted with the director of a large establishment who is in want of a professor of English and Latin
The very thing, sir
But
do you understand French well enough to teach Belgian boys English
Then
I think I can promise you the place, for Monsieur Pelet will not refuse a professor recommended by me; but come here again at five o'clock this afternoon, and I will introduce you to him
I am not a professor
Oh
professor, here in Belgium, means a teacher, that is all
Pensionnat de Demoiselles
le respectable M. Brown
And in addition
as there will be some hours in each day during which your services will not be required in my establishment, you may, in time, obtain employment in other seminaries, and thus turn your vacant moments to profitable account
fine et spirituelle
Would you object to taking the boys as they are, and testing their proficiency in English
Messieurs, prenez vos livres de lecture
Anglais ou Francais, monsieur
Anglais
Commencez
Vicar of Wakefield
Anglais
Arretez
voix de poitrine
Comme c'est affreux
Ecoutez, messieurs
Vicar of Wakefield
C'est assez pour aujourd'hui, messieurs; demain nous recommencerons, et j'espere que tout ira bien
C'est bien! c'est tres bien
Je vois que monsieur a de l'adresse; cela, me plait, car, dans l'instruction, l'adresse fait tout autant que le savoir
chambre
La fenetre fermee donne sur un jardin appartenant a un pensionnat de demoiselles
et les convenances exigent -- enfin, vous comprenez -- n'est-ce pas, monsieur
Oui, oui
The boy is father to the man
Ce ne sont que des Flamands -- allez
le beau sexe
cabinet
Plait-il
Surely she's not going to make love to me
I've heard of old Frenchwomen doing odd things in that line; and the gouter? They generally begin such affairs with eating and drinking, I believe
Monsieur is indeed most obliging to quit his books, his studies, at the request of an insignificant person like me -- will Monsieur complete his kindness by allowing me to present him to my dear friend Madame Reuter, who resides in the neighbouring house -- the young ladies' school
Ah
I knew she was old
How do you like Belgium, Monsieur
petit verre
We will now speak of business
Pourvu que vous soyez sage
it is an agreeable and wholesome beverage after a full meal
I feel
I feel profoundly the importance of the commission with which my dear daughter has entrusted me, for you are aware, Monsieur, that it is my daughter who directs the establishment in the next house
Ah! I thought it was yourself, madame
I! Oh, no! I manage the house and look after the servants, as my friend Madame Pelet does for Monsieur her son -- nothing more. Ah! you thought I gave lessons in class -- did you
Madame is in the wrong to laugh
if she does not give lessons, I am sure it is not because she cannot
Quel charmant jeune homme
You are a dangerous person, I fear
if you can forge compliments at that rate, Zoraide will positively be afraid of you; but if you are good, I will keep your secret, and not tell her how well you can flatter. Now, listen what sort of a proposal she makes to you. She has heard that you are an excellent professor, and as she wishes to get the very beet masters for her school (car Zoraide fait tout comme une reine, c'est une veritable maitresse-femme), she has commissioned me to step over this afternoon, and sound Madame Pelet as to the possibility of engaging you. Zoraide is a wary general; she never advances without first examining well her ground I don't think she would be pleased if she knew I had already disclosed her intentions to you; she did not order me to go so far, but I thought there would be no harm in letting you into the secret, and Madame Pelet was of the same opinion. Take care, however, you don't betray either of us to Zoraide -- to my daughter, I mean; she is so discreet and circumspect herself, she cannot understand that one should find a pleasure in gossiping a little
C'est absolument comme mon fils
All the world is so changed since our girlhood
Bien! bien
I will consult M. Pelet, and the thing shall be settled as you desire. Good evening, mesdames -- I am infinitely obliged to you
Comment! vous vous en allez deja
Prenez encore quelquechose, monsieur; une pomme cuite, des biscuits, encore une tasse de cafe
Merci, merci, madame -- au revoir
I shall now at last see the mysterious garden: I shall gaze both on the angels and their Eden
Doubtless
she is some stiff old maid; for though the daughter of Madame Reuter, she may well number upwards of forty winters; besides, if it were otherwise, if she be both young and pretty, I am not handsome, and no dressing can make me so, therefore I'll go as I am
Monsieur Creemsvort, n'est ce pas
Yes
she often thought so
it is my garden, monsieur, which makes me retain this house, otherwise I should probably have removed to larger and more commodious premises long since; but you see I could not take my garden with me, and I should scarcely find one so large and pleasant anywhere else in town
But you have not seen it yet
come to the window and take a better view
But it is often well to act on one's own judgment
and to lead parents, rather than be led by them. The fitness of a professor is not a matter of age; and, from what I have heard, and from what I observe myself, I would much rather trust you than M. Ledru, the music-master, who is a married man of near fifty
Du reste
the surveillance will be strictly attended to
Ah! c'est comme tous les Anglais
It is the privilege of my country, Mademoiselle
and, remember, I shall always claim it
Comme vous avez l'air rayonnant
Je ne vous ai jamais vu aussi gai. Que s'est-il donc passe
Apparemment que j'aime les changements
Ah! je comprends -- c'est cela-soyez sage seulement. Vous etes bien jeune -- trop jeune pour le role que vous allez jouer; il faut prendre garde -- savez-vous
Mais quel danger y a-t-il
Je n'en sais rien -- ne vous laissez pas aller a de vives impressions -- voila tout
Bon jour, monsieur
vives impressions
Monsieur will give a lesson in the first class to-day
dictation or reading will perhaps be the best thing to begin with, for those are the easiest forms of communicating instruction in a foreign language; and, at the first, a master naturally feels a little unsettled
Prenez vos cahiers de dictee, mesdemoiselles
Eulalie, je suis prete a pamer de rire
Comme il a rougi en parlant
Oui, c'est un veritable blanc-bec
Tais-toi, Hortense -- il nous ecoute
Dictez-nous quelquechose de facile pour commencer, monsieur
de sa facon
Take your pens and commence writing
Comment dit-on point et virgule en Anglais, monsieur
Semi-colon, mademoiselle
Semi-collong? Ah, comme c'est drole
J'ai une si mauvaise plume -- impossible d'ecrire
Mais, monsieur -- je ne sais pas suivre -- vous allez si vite
Je n'ai rien compris, moi
Silence, mesdemoiselles
C'est si difficile, l'Anglais
Je deteste la dictee
Quel ennui d'ecrire quelquechose que l'on ne comprend pas
Donnez-moi votre cahier
Et vous, mademoiselle-donnez-moi le votre
C'est honteux
C'est bien -- je suis content de vous
Step in here a moment
Well, you have given your first lesson
Were you satisfied with your pupils, or did any circumstance in their conduct give you cause for complaint? Conceal nothing from me, repose in me entire confidence
A thousand thanks, mademoiselle, all has gone very smoothly
Et les trois demoiselles du premier banc
Ah! tout va au mieux
Be as close as you like, I am not dependent on your candour; what you would conceal I already know
I am growing wiser
Look at this little woman; is she like the women of novelists and romancers? To read of female character as depicted in Poetry and Fiction, one would think it was made up of sentiment, either for good or bad -- here is a specimen, and a most sensible and respectable specimen, too, whose staple ingredient is abstract reason. No Talleyrand was ever more passionless than Zoraide Reuter
Eh bien, mauvais sujet
ou allez-vous? Venez a la salle-a-manger, que je vous gronde un peu
I beg pardon, monsieur
for having returned so late -- it was not my fault
That is just what I want to know
Coffee for two
C'est une grande responsabilite, que la surveillance
Plait-il
Des betes de somme,-- des betes de somme
Servez-vous mon garcon
And now tell me why you stayed so long at Mdlle. Reuter's. I know that lessons conclude, in her establishment as in mine, at four o'clock, and when you returned it was past five
Mdlle. wished to speak with me, monsieur
Indeed! on what subject? if one may ask
Mademoiselle talked about nothing, monsieur
A fertile topic! and did she discourse thereon in the schoolroom, before the pupils
No; like you, monsieur, she asked me to walk into her parlour
And Madame Reuter -- the old duenna -- my mother's gossip, was there, of course
No, monsieur; I had the honour of being quite alone with mademoiselle
C'est joli -- cela
Honi soit qui mal y pense
Je connais un peu ma petite voisine -- voyez-vous
In that case, monsieur will be able to aid me in finding out what was mademoiselle's reason for making me sit before her sofa one mortal hour, listening to the most copious and fluent dissertation on the merest frivolities
She was sounding your character
I thought so, monsieur
Did she find out your weak point
What is my weak point
Why, the sentimental. Any woman sinking her shaft deep enough, will at last reach a fathomless spring of sensibility in thy breast, Crimsworth
Some women might, monsieur
Is Mdlle. Reuter of the number? Come, speak frankly, mon fils; elle est encore jeune, plus agee que toi peut-etre, mais juste asset pour unir la tendresse d'une petite maman a l'amour d'une epouse devouee; n'est-ce pas que cela t'irait superieurement
No, monsieur; I should like my wife to be my wife, and not half my mother
She is then a little too old for you
No, monsieur, not a day too old if she suited me in other things
In what does she not suit you, William? She is personally agreeable, is she not
Very; her hair and complexion are just what I admire; and her turn of form, though quite Belgian, is full of grace
Bravo! and her face? her features? How do you like them
A little harsh, especially her mouth
Ah, yes! her mouth
There is character about her mouth -- firmness -- but she has a very pleasant smile; don't you think so
Rather crafty
True, but that expression of craft is owing to her eyebrows; have you remarked her eyebrows
You have not seen her looking down then
No
It is a treat, notwithstanding. Observe her when she has some knitting, or some other woman's work in hand, and sits the image of peace, calmly intent on her needles and her silk, some discussion meantime going on around her, in the course of which peculiarities of character are being developed, or important interests canvassed; she takes no part in it; her humble, feminine mind is wholly with her knitting; none of her features move; she neither presumes to smile approval, nor frown disapprobation; her little hands assiduously ply their unpretending task; if she can only get this purse finished, or this bonnet-grec completed, it is enough for her. If gentlemen approach her chair, a deeper quiescence, a meeker modesty settles on her features, and clothes her general mien; observe then her eyebrows, et dites-moi s'il n'y a pas du chat dans l'un et du renard dans l'autre
I will take careful notice the first opportunity
And then
the eyelid will flicker, the light-coloured lashes be lifted a second, and a blue eye, glancing out from under the screen, will take its brief, sly, searching survey, and retreat again
Will she ever marry, do you think
Marry! Will birds pair? Of course it is both her intention and resolution to marry when she finds a suitable match, and no one is better aware than herself of the sort of impression she is capable of producing; no one likes better to captivate in a quiet way. I am mistaken if she will not yet leave the print of her stealing steps on thy heart, Crimsworth
Of her steps? Confound it, no! My heart is not a plank to be walked on
But the soft touch of a patte de velours will do it no harm
She offers me no patte de velours; she is all form and reserve with me
That to begin with; let respect be the foundation, affection the first floor, love the superstructure; Mdlle. Reuter is a skilful architect
And interest, M. Pelet -- interest. Will not mademoiselle consider that point
Yes, yes, no doubt; it will be the cement between every stone. And now we have discussed the directress, what of the pupils? N'y-a-t-il pas de belles etudes parmi ces jeunes tetes
Studies of character? Yes; curious ones, at least, I imagine; but one cannot divine much from a first interview
Ah, you affect discretion; but tell me now, were you not a little abashed before these blooming young creatures? "At first, yes; but I rallied and got through with all due sang-froid
I don't believe you
It is true, notwithstanding. At first I thought them angels, but they did not leave me long under that delusion; three of the eldest and handsomest undertook the task of setting me right, and they managed so cleverly that in five minutes I knew them, at least, for what they were -- three arrant coquettes
Je les connais
Elles sont toujours au premier rang a l'eglise et a la promenade; une blonde superbe, une jolie espiegle, une belle brune
Exactly
Lovely creatures all of them -- heads for artists; what a group they would make, taken together! Eulalie (I know their names), with her smooth braided hair and calm ivory brow. Hortense, with her rich chesnut locks so luxuriantly knotted, plaited, twisted, as if she did not know how to dispose of all their abundance, with her vermilion lips, damask cheek, and roguish laughing eye. And Caroline de Blemont! Ah, there is beauty! beauty in perfection. What a cloud of sable curls about the face of a houri! What fascinating lips! What glorious black eyes! Your Byron would have worshipped her, and you -- you cold, frigid islander!-- you played the austere, the insensible in the presence of an Aphrodite so exquisite
Confess, William, do not the mere good looks of Zoraide Reuter appear dowdyish and commonplace compared with the splendid charms of some of her pupils
Each of those three beautiful girls will have a handsome fortune; and with a little address, a gentlemanlike, intelligent young fellow like you might make himself master of the hand, heart, and purse of any one of the trio
Monsieur
Yes
I was fatigued
You shall not go away till you have had some refreshment
Will you go into the garden a minute or two
till they are gone
You will come with me
I want something
What
Only a flower
Gather it then -- or two, or twenty, if you like
No -- one will do-but you must gather it, and give it to me
What a caprice
l'allee defendue
She watches late
for it must be now near midnight. She is a fascinating little woman
Now, Zoraide Reuter
has tact, CARACTERE, judgment, discretion; has she heart? What a good, simple little smile played about her lips when she gave me the branch of lilacs! I have thought her crafty, dissembling, interested sometimes, it is true; but may not much that looks like cunning and dissimulation in her conduct be only the efforts made by a bland temper to traverse quietly perplexing difficulties? And as to interest, she wishes to make her way in the world, no doubt, and who can blame her? Even if she be truly deficient in sound principle, is it not rather her misfortune than her fault? She has been brought up a Catholic: had she been born an Englishwoman, and reared a Protestant, might she not have added straight integrity to all her other excellences? Supposing she were to marry an English and Protestant husband, would she not, rational, sensible as she is, quickly acknowledge the superiority of right over expediency, honesty over policy? It would be worth a man's while to try the experiment; to-morrow I will renew my observations. She knows that I watch her: how calm she is under scrutiny! it seems rather to gratify than annoy her
A quand donc le jour des noces, ma bien-aimee
Mais, Francois, tu sais bien qu'il me serait impossible de me marier avant les vacances
June, July, August, a whole quarter
How can I wait so long?-- I who am ready, even now, to expire at your feet with impatience
Ah! if you die, the whole affair will be settled without any trouble about notaries and contracts; I shall only have to order a slight mourning dress, which will be much sooner prepared than the nuptial trousseau
Cruel Zoraide! you laugh at the distress of one who loves you so devotedly as I do: my torment is your sport; you scruple not to stretch my soul on the rack of jealousy; for, deny it as you will, I am certain you have cast encouraging glances on that school-boy, Crimsworth; he has presumed to fall in love, which he dared not have done unless you had given him room to hope
What do you say, Francois? Do you say Crimsworth is in love with me
Over head and ears
Has he told you so
No -- but I see it in his face: he blushes whenever your name is mentioned
Francois
you are jealous
Truly, my dear Francois, I will not deny that this young Englishman may have made some attempts to ingratiate himself with me; but, so far from giving him any encouragement, I have always treated him with as much reserve as it was possible to combine with civility; affianced as I am to you, I would give no man false hopes; believe me, dear friend
What folly! How could I prefer an unknown foreigner to you? And then -- not to flatter your vanity -- Crimsworth could not bear comparison with you either physically or mentally; he is not a handsome man at all; some may call him gentleman-like and intelligent-looking, but for my part
mon fils
Circumstances must guide me
I will give her an answer
I hope you feel quite recovered to-day
And I, mademoiselle, hope that you took no cold last night in consequence of your late walk in the garden
Composition
There is metal there
Would that there were fire also, living ardour to make the steel glow -- then I could love her
Monsieur Creemsvort
Monsieur Creemsvort, that young person, who has just entered, wishes to have the advantage of taking lessons with you in English; she is not a pupil of the house; she is, indeed, in one sense, a teacher, for she gives instruction in lace-mending, and in little varieties of ornamental needle-work. She very properly proposes to qualify herself for a higher department of education, and has asked permission to attend your lessons, in order to perfect her knowledge of English, in which language she has, I believe, already made some progress; of course it is my wish to aid her in an effort so praiseworthy; you will permit her then to benefit by your instruction -- n'est ce pas, monsieur
Of course
Another word
Mdlle. Henri has not received a regular education; perhaps her natural talents are not of the highest order: but I can assure you of the excellence of her intentions, and even of the amiability of her disposition. Monsieur will then, I am sure, have the goodness to be considerate with her at first, and not expose her backwardness, her inevitable deficiencies, before the young ladies, who, in a sense, are her pupils. Will Monsieur Creemsvort favour me by attending to this hint
Pardon me, monsieur, if I venture to add that what I have just said is of importance to the poor girl; she already experiences great difficulty in impressing these giddy young things with a due degree of deference for her authority, and should that difficulty be increased by new discoveries of her incapacity, she might find her position in my establishment too painful to be retained; a circumstance I should much regret for her sake, as she can ill afford to lose the profits of her occupation here
You have come in too late to receive a lesson to-day; try to be more punctual next time
She will consider her first attempt at taking a lesson in English something of a failure
vierge celeste, reine des anges, maison d'or, tour d'ivoire
a fine woman
I cannot follow you
Amelie Mullenberg, ask me no question, and request of me no assistance, for a week to come; during that space of time I will neither speak to you nor help you
C'est assez, ma bonne amie; a present je ne veux pas vous retenir davantage
On his way to Perth, the king was met by a Highland woman, calling herself a prophetess; she stood at the side of the ferry by which he was about to travel to the north, and cried with a loud voice, 'My lord the king, if you pass this water you will never return again alive
You have had lessons in English before
No, sir
No! you read it well; you have been in England
Oh, no
You have been in English families
No
Frances Evan Henri
Your name
Yes, sir
Mademoiselle
Will you have the goodness to go and stand in the corridor, while the young ladies are putting on their things, and try to keep some order
What splendid weather
What of your new pupil, monsieur
Is she likely to make progress in English
Indeed I can hardly judge. She possesses a pretty good accent; of her real knowledge of the language I have as yet had no opportunity of forming an opinion
And her natural capacity, monsieur? I have had my fears about that: can you relieve me by an assurance at least of its average power
I see no reason to doubt its average power, mademoiselle, but really I scarcely know her, and have not had time to study the calibre of her capacity. I wish you a very good afternoon
You will observe, monsieur, and tell me what you think; I could so much better rely on your opinion than on my own; women cannot judge of these things as men can, and, excuse my pertinacity, monsieur, but it is natural I should feel interested about this poor little girl (pauvre petite); she has scarcely any relations, her own efforts are all she has to look to, her acquirements must be her sole fortune; her present position has once been mine, or nearly so; it is then but natural I should sympathize with her; and sometimes when I see the difficulty she has in managing pupils, I reel quite chagrined. I doubt not she does her best, her intentions are excellent; but, monsieur, she wants tact and firmness. I have talked to her on the subject, but I am not fluent, and probably did not express myself with clearness; she never appears to comprehend me. Now, would you occasionally, when you see an opportunity, slip in a word of advice to her on the subject; men have so much more influence than women have -- they argue so much more logically than we do; and you, monsieur, in particular, have so paramount a power of making yourself obeyed; a word of advice from you could not but do her good; even if she were sullen and headstrong (which I hope she is not), she would scarcely refuse to listen to you; for my own part, I can truly say that I never attend one of your lessons without deriving benefit from witnessing your management of the pupils. The other masters are a constant source of anxiety to me; they cannot impress the young ladies with sentiments of respect, nor restrain the levity natural to youth: in you, monsieur, I feel the most absolute confidence; try then to put this poor child into the way of controlling our giddy, high-spirited Brabantoises. But, monsieur, I would add one word more; don't alarm her AMOUR PROPRE; beware of inflicting a wound there. I reluctantly admit that in that particular she is blameably -- some would say ridiculously -- susceptible. I fear I have touched this sore point inadvertently, and she cannot get over it
Au revoir, mademoiselle
Stupid and deceitful
Now
I shall see a glimpse of what she really is; I shall get an idea of the nature and extent of her powers; not that she can be expected to express herself well in a foreign tongue, but still, if she has any mind, here will be a reflection of it
Take care, young man
It is Christmas Eve
I mark the date; here I sit alone on a rude couch of rushes, sheltered by the thatch of a herdsman's hut; I, whose inheritance was a kingdom, owe my night's harbourage to a poor serf; my throne is usurped, my crown presses the brow of an invader; I have no friends; my troops wander broken in the hills of Wales; reckless robbers spoil my country; my subjects lie prostrate, their breasts crushed by the heel of the brutal Dane. Fate! thou hast done thy worst, and now thou standest before me resting thy hand on thy blunted blade. Ay; I see thine eye confront mine and demand why I still live, why I still hope. Pagan demon, I credit not thine omnipotence, and so cannot succumb to thy power. My God, whose Son, as on this night, took on Him the form of man, and for man vouchsafed to suffer and bleed, controls thy hand, and without His behest thou canst not strike a stroke. My God is sinless, eternal, all-wise -- in Him is my trust; and though stripped and crushed by thee -- though naked, desolate, void of resource -- I do not despair, I cannot despair: were the lance of Guthrum now wet with my blood, I should not despair. I watch, I toil, I hope, I pray; Jehovah, in his own time, will aid
I will find, or make, an opportunity of speaking to her
I will learn what she has of English in her besides the name of Frances Evans; she is no novice in the language, that is evident, yet she told me she had neither been in England, nor taken lessons in English, nor lived in English families
If she thinks she did a clever thing in composing that devoir, she will now look mortified
Come here
Step up
Take a seat
This it, yours, I suppose
Yes
This devoir has numerous faults
It will take you some years of careful study before you are in a condition to write English with absolute correctness. Attend: I will point out some principal defects
As to the substance of your devoir, Mdlle. Henri, it has surprised me; I perused it with pleasure, because I saw in it some proofs of taste and fancy. Taste and fancy are not the highest gifts of the human mind, but such as they are you possess them -- not probably in a paramount degree, but in a degree beyond what the majority can boast. You may then take courage; cultivate the faculties that God and nature have bestowed on you, and do not fear in any crisis of suffering, under any pressure of injustice, to derive free and full consolation from the consciousness of their strength and rarity
Strength and rarity
ay, the words are probably true
I am glad you have been forced to discover so much of my nature; you need not so carefully moderate your language. Do you think I am myself a stranger to myself? What you tell me in terms so qualified, I have known fully from a child
Thank you, sir
Yes
Thank you, sir
No matter
What has been left incomplete now, shall be finished another day
Where there is a will, there is a way
Your book an instant
A pencil
You are not a native of Belgium
No
Nor of France
No
Where, then, is your birthplace
I was born at Geneva
You don't call Frances and Evans Swiss names, I presume
No, sir; they are English names
Just so; and is it the custom of the Genevese to give their children English appellatives
Non, Monsieur; mais
Speak English, if you please
Mais
English
my parents were not all the two Genevese
Say BOTH, instead of 'all the two,' mademoiselle
Not BOTH Swiss: my mother was English
Ah! and of English extraction
Yes -- her ancestors were all English
And your father
He was Swiss
What besides? What was his profession
Ecclesiastic -- pastor -- he had a church
Since your mother is an Englishwoman, why do you not speak English with more facility
Maman est morte, il y a dix ans
And you do homage to her memory by forgetting her language. Have the goodness to put French out of your mind so long as I converse with you -- keep to English
C'est si difficile, monsieur, quand on n'en a plus l'habitude
You had the habitude formerly, I suppose? Now answer me in your mother tongue
Yes, sir, I spoke the English more than the French when I was a child
Why do you not speak it now
Because I have no English friends
You live with your father, I suppose
My father is dead
You have brothers and sisters
Not one
Do you live alone
No -- I have an aunt -- ma tante Julienne
Your father's sister
Justement, monsieur
Is that English
No -- but I forget
For which, mademoiselle, if you were a child I should certainly devise some slight punishment; at your age -- you must be two or three and twenty, I should think
Pas encore, monsieur -- en un mois j'aurai dix-neuf ans
Well, nineteen is a mature age, and, having attained it, you ought to be so solicitous for your own improvement, that it should not be needful for a master to remind you twice of the expediency of your speaking English whenever practicable
He talks of he knows not what
Are you solicitous for your own improvement
Rather
How do you prove it, mademoiselle
Why, monsieur, I am not inattentive -- am I? I learn my lessons well
Oh, a child can do that! and what more do you do
What more can I do
Oh, certainly, not much; but you are a teacher, are you not, as well as a pupil
Yes
You teach lace-mending
Yes
A dull, stupid occupation; do you like it
No -- it is tedious
Why do you pursue it? Why do you not rather teach history, geography, grammar, even arithmetic
Is monsieur certain that I am myself thoroughly acquainted with these studies
I don't know; you ought to be at your age
But I never was at school, monsieur
Indeed! What then were your friends -- what was your aunt about? She is very much to blame
She is not rich; she has only an annuity of twelve hundred francs, and it would be impossible for her to send me to school
Rather
It is sad, however, that you should be brought up in ignorance of the most ordinary branches of education; had you known something of history and grammar you might, by degrees, have relinquished your lace-mending drudgery, and risen in the world
It is what I mean to do
How? By a knowledge of English alone? That will not suffice; no respectable family will receive a governess whose whole stock of knowledge consists in a familiarity with one foreign language
Monsieur, I know other things
Yes, yes, you can work with Berlin wools, and embroider handkerchiefs and collars -- that will do little for you
Speak
I never like the appearance of acquiescence when the reality is not there; and you had a contradiction at your tongue's end
Monsieur, I have had many lessons both in grammar, history, geography, and arithmetic. I have gone through a course of each study
Bravo! but how did you manage it, since your aunt could not afford lo send you to school
By lace-mending; by the thing monsieur despises so much
Truly! And now, mademoiselle, it will be a good exercise for you to explain to me in English how such a result was produced by such means
Monsieur, I begged my aunt to have me taught lace-mending soon after we came to Brussels, because I knew it was a METIER, a trade which was easily learnt, and by which I could earn some money very soon. I learnt it in a few days, and I quickly got work, for all the Brussels ladies have old lace -- very precious -- which must be mended all the times it is washed. I earned money a little, and this money I grave for lessons in the studies I have mentioned; some of it I spent in buying books, English books especially; soon I shall try to find a place of governess, or school-teacher, when I can write and speak English well; but it will be difficult, because those who know I have been a lace-mender will despise me, as the pupils here despise me. Pourtant j'ai mon projet
What is it
I will go and live in England; I will teach French there
Have you a wish to see England
Yes, and an intention
Mademoiselle Henri, je crois qu'il va pleuvoir; vous feriez bien, ma bonne amie, de retourner chez vous tout de suite
What is your idea of England, mademoiselle? Why do you wish to go there
England is something unique, as I have heard and read; my idea of it is vague, and I want to go there to render my idea clear, definite
Hum! How much of England do you suppose you could see if you went there in the capacity of a teacher? A strange notion you must have of getting a clear and definite idea of a country! All you could see of Great Britain would be the interior of a school, or at most of one or two private dwellings
It would be an English school; they would be English dwellings
Indisputably; but what then? What would be the value of observations made on a scale so narrow
Monsieur, might not one learn something by analogy? An-echantillon -- a -- a sample often serves to give an idea of the whole; besides, narrow and wide are words comparative, are they not? All my life would perhaps seem narrow in your eyes -- all the life of a -- that little animal subterranean -- une taupe -- comment dit-on
Mole
Yes -- a mole, which lives underground would seem narrow even to me
Well, mademoiselle -- what then? Proceed
Mais, monsieur, vous me comprenez
Not in the least; have the goodness to explain
Why, monsieur, it is just so. In Switzerland I have done but little, learnt but little, and seen but little; my life there was in a circle; I walked the same round every day; I could not get out of it; had I rested -- remained there even till my death, I should never have enlarged it, because I am poor and not skilful, I have not great acquirements; when I was quite tired of this round, I begged my aunt to go to Brussels; my existence is no larger here, because I am no richer or higher; I walk in as narrow a limit, but the scene is changed; it would change again if I went to England. I knew something of the bourgeois of Geneva, now I know something of the bourgeois of Brussels; if I went to London, I would know something of the bourgeois of London. Can you make any sense out of what I say, monsieur, or is it all obscure
I see, I see -- now let us advert to another subject; you propose to devote your life to teaching, and you are a most unsuccessful teacher; you cannot keep your pupils in order
Monsieur, I am not a skilful teacher, it is true, but practice improves; besides, I work under difficulties; here I only teach sewing, I can show no power in sewing, no superiority -- it is a subordinate art; then I have no associates in this house, I am isolated; I am too a heretic, which deprives me of influence
And in England you would be a foreigner; that too would deprive you of influence, and would effectually separate you from all round you; in England you would have as few connections, as little importance as you have here
But I should be learning something; for the rest, there are probably difficulties for such as I everywhere, and if I must contend, and perhaps: be conquered, I would rather submit to English pride than to Flemish coarseness; besides, monsieur
You have said enough
Finish your phrase
Besides, monsieur, I long to live once more among Protestants; they are more honest than Catholics; a Romish school is a building with porous walls, a hollow floor, a false ceiling; every room in this house, monsieur, has eyeholes and ear-holes, and what the house is, the inhabitants are, very treacherous; they all think it lawful to tell lies; they all call it politeness to profess friendship where they feel hatred
All
you mean the pupils -- the mere children -- inexperienced, giddy things, who have not learnt to distinguish the difference between right and wrong
On the contrary, monsieur -- the children are the most sincere; they have not yet had time to become accomplished in duplicity; they will tell lies, but they do it inartificially, and you know they are lying; but the grown-up people are very false; they deceive strangers, they deceive each other
Mdlle. Henri -- Mdlle. Reuter vous prie de vouloir bien conduire la petite de Dorlodot chez elle, elle vous attend dans le cabinet de Rosalie la portiere -- c'est que sa bonne n'est pas venue la chercher -- voyez-vous
Eh bien! est-ce que je suis sa bonne -- moi
Well, are you pleased that I am satisfied with your progress
Yes
But I do not say enough, I suppose
My praises are too cool
The matter is too trite to excite an emotion, or call forth an opinion
the remainder will wait till their respective servants arrive to fetch them
Monsieur, a word
Mademoiselle, I am at your service
Monsieur, it is of course an excellent plan to encourage effort in young people by making conspicuous the progress of any particularly industrious pupil; but do you not think that in the present instance, Mdlle. Henri can hardly be considered as a concurrent with the other pupils? She is older than most of them, and has had advantages of an exclusive nature for acquiring a knowledge of English; on the other hand, her sphere of life is somewhat beneath theirs; under these circumstances, a public distinction, conferred upon Mdlle. Henri, may be the means of suggesting comparisons, and exciting feelings such as would be far from advantageous to the individual forming their object. The interest I take in Mdlle. Henri's real welfare makes me desirous of screening her from annoyances of this sort; besides, monsieur, as I have before hinted to you, the sentiment of AMOUR-PROPRE has a somewhat marked preponderance in her character; celebrity has a tendency to foster this sentiment, and in her it should be rather repressed -- she rather needs keeping down than bringing forward; and then I think, monsieur -- it appears to me that ambition, LITERARY ambition especially, is not a feeling to be cherished in the mind of a woman: would not Mdlle. Henri be much safer and happier if taught to believe that in the quiet discharge of social duties consists her real vocation, than if stimulated to aspire after applause and publicity? She may never marry; scanty as are her resources, obscure as are her connections, uncertain as is her health (for I think her consumptive, her mother died of that complaint), it is more than probable she never will. I do not see how she can rise to a position, whence such a step would be possible; but even in celibacy it would be better for her to retain the character and habits of a respectable decorous female
Indisputably, mademoiselle
Your opinion admits of no doubt
Ou donc est Mdlle. Henri
Elle est partie, monsieur
Partie? et pour combien de temps? Quand reviendra-t-elle
Elle est partie pour toujours, monsieur; elle ne reviendra plus
Ah
En etes-vous bien sure, Sylvie
Oui, oui, monsieur, mademoiselle la directrice nous l'a dit elle-meme il y a deux ou trois jours
Sylvie, do you know Mdlle. Henri's address? I have some books of hers
and I should wish to send them to her
No, monsieur
but perhaps Rosalie, the portress, will be able to give it you
Oh, don't mention it, monsieur; you only touched my hair with your elbow; it is no worse, only a little dishevelled
Now
this will not do; Mdlle. Reuter thinks her meanness in eaves-dropping is screened by her art in devising a pretext, whereas the muslin curtains she speaks of are not more transparent than this same pretext
The rough-shod foot treads most firmly on slippery ground
Mademoiselle Henri has left your establishment -- been dismissed, I presume
Ah, I wished to have a little conversation with you, monsieur
but we cannot talk quietly here; will Monsieur step into the garden a minute
There
There, one feels quiet and free when there are only pear-trees and rose-bushes about one; I dare say you, like me, monsieur, are sometimes tired of being eternally in the midst of life; of having human faces always round you, human eyes always upon you, human voices always in your ear. I am sure I often wish intensely for liberty to spend a whole month in the country at some little farm-house, bien gentille, bien propre, tout entouree de champs et de bois; quelle vie charmante que la vie champetre! N'est-ce pas, monsieur
Cela depend, mademoiselle
Que le vent est bon et frais
I understand Mdlle. Henri is gone from hence, and will not return
Ah, true! I meant to have named the subject to you some days ago, but my time is so completely taken up, I cannot do half the things I wish: have you never experienced what it is, monsieur, to find the day too short by twelve hours for your numerous duties
Not often. Mdlle. Henri's departure was not voluntary, I presume? If it had been, she would certainly have given me some intimation of it, being my pupil
Oh, did she not tell you? that was strange; for my part, I never thought of adverting to the subject; when one has so many things to attend to, one is apt to forget little incidents that are not of primary importance
You consider Mdlle. Henri's dismission, then, as a very insignificant event
Dismission? Ah! she was not dismissed; I can say with truth, monsieur, that since I became the head of this establishment no master or teacher has ever been dismissed from it
Yet some have left it, mademoiselle
Many; I have found it necessary to change frequently -- a change of instructors is often beneficial to the interests of a school; it gives life and variety to the proceedings; it amuses the pupils, and suggests to the parents the idea of exertion and progress
Yet when you are tired of a professor or maitresse, you scruple to dismiss them
No need to have recourse to such extreme measures, I assure you. Allons, monsieur le professeur -- asseyons-nous; je vais vous donner une petite lecon dans votre etat d'instituteur
Yes, I will try
Monsieur fears to sit by me
I have no wish to usurp Pelet's place
Well -- and your lesson
Ah
you are so young, so frank and fearless, so talented, so impatient of imbecility, so disdainful of vulgarity, you need a lesson; here it is then: far more is to be done in this world by dexterity than by strength; but, perhaps, you knew that before, for there is delicacy as well as power in your character -- policy, as well as pride
Go on
Well, then, if ever you are at the head of a large establishment, dismiss nobody. To speak truth, monsieur (and to you I will speak truth), I despise people who are always making rows, blustering, sending off one to the right, and another to the left, urging and hurrying circumstances. I'll tell you what I like best to do, monsieur, shall I
I like, monsieur, to take my knitting in my hands, and to sit quietly down in my chair; circumstances defile past me; I watch their march; so long as they follow the course I wish, I say nothing, and do nothing; I don't clap my hands, and cry out 'Bravo! How lucky I am!' to attract the attention and envy of my neighbours -- I am merely passive; but when events fall out ill -- when circumstances become adverse -- I watch very vigilantly; I knit on still, and still I hold my tongue; but every now and then, monsieur, I just put my toe out -- so -- and give the rebellious circumstance a little secret push, without noise, which sends it the way I wish, and I am successful after all, and nobody has seen my expedient. So, when teachers or masters become troublesome and inefficient -- when, in short, the interests of the school would suffer from their retaining their places -- I mind my knitting, events progress, circumstances glide past; I see one which, if pushed ever so little awry, will render untenable the post I wish to have vacated -- the deed is done -- the stumbling-block removed -- and no one saw me: I have not made an enemy, I am rid of an incumbrance
Just like you
And in this way you have ousted Mdlle. Henri? You wanted her office, therefore you rendered it intolerable to her
Not at all, monsieur, I was merely anxious about Mdlle. Henri's health; no, your moral sight is clear and piercing, but there you have failed to discover the truth. I took -- I have always taken a real interest in Mdlle. Henri's welfare; I did not like her going out in all weathers; I thought it would be more advantageous for her to obtain a permanent situation; besides, I considered her now qualified to do something more than teach sewing. I reasoned with her; left the decision to herself; she saw the correctness of my views, and adopted them
Excellent! and now, mademoiselle, you will have the goodness to give me her address
Her address
Her address? Ah?-- well -- I wish I could oblige you, monsieur, but I cannot, and I will tell you why; whenever I myself asked her for her address, she always evaded the inquiry. I thought -- I may be wrong -- but I THOUGHT her motive for doing so, was a natural, though mistaken reluctance to introduce me to some, probably, very poor abode; her means were narrow, her origin obscure; she lives somewhere, doubtless, in the 'basse ville
I'll not lose sight of my best pupil yet
though she were born of beggars and lodged in a cellar; for the rest, it is absurd to make a bugbear of her origin to me -- I happen to know that she was a Swiss pastor's daughter, neither more nor less; and, as to her narrow means, I care nothing for the poverty of her purse so long as her heart overflows with affluence
Your sentiments are perfectly noble, monsieur
Mademoiselle, will you have the goodness to give me the address of Frances Evans Henri
Monsieur has perhaps forgotten that I explained all about that circumstance before -- a week ago
Mademoiselle
you would greatly oblige me by directing me to that young person's abode
Does Monsieur think I am telling an untruth
It is not then your intention, mademoiselle, to oblige me in this particular
But, monsieur, how can I tell you what I do not know
Very well; I understand you perfectly, mademoiselle, and now I have only two or three words to say. This is the last week in July; in another month the vacation will commence I have the goodness to avail yourself of the leisure it will afford you to look out for another English master -- at the close of August, I shall be under the necessity of resigning my post in your establishment
F. E. HENRI
Mdlle. Reuter talked about her poverty
and she is poor; yet she pays her debts and more. I have not yet given her a quarter's lessons, and she has sent me a quarter's due. I wonder of what she deprived herself to scrape together the twenty francs -- I wonder what sort of a place she has to live in, and what sort of a woman her aunt is, and whether she is likely to get employment to supply the place she has lost. No doubt she will have to trudge about long enough from school to school, to inquire here, and apply there -- be rejected in this place, disappointed in that. Many an evening she'll go to her bed tired and unsuccessful. And the directress would not let her in to bid me good-bye? I might not have the chance of standing with her for a few minutes at a window in the schoolroom and exchanging some half-dozen of sentences -- getting to know where she lived -- putting matters in train for having all things arranged to my mind? No address on the note
women are women, that is certain, and always do business like women; men mechanically put a date and address to their communications. And these five-franc pieces
if she had offered me them herself instead of tying them up with a thread of green silk in a kind of Lilliputian packet, I could have thrust them back into her little hand, and shut up the small, taper fingers over them -- so -- and compelled her shame, her pride, her shyness, all to yield to a little bit of determined Will -- now where is she? How can I get at her
Who brought the packet
Un petit commissionaire, monsieur
Did he say anything
Rien
No matter
No matter -- I'll seek her through Brussels
She has probably left Brussels -- perhaps is gone to England, as she said she would
gouter
The Protestant Cemetery, outside the gate of Louvain
Julienne Henri, died at Brussels, aged sixty. August10 th, 18
Mon maitre! mon maitre
Well, my pupil
Well, I have found you again: a month's search has seemed long, and I little thought to have discovered my lost sheep straying amongst graves
Mon maitre
have you troubled yourself to seek me? I little imagined you would think much of my absence, but I grieved bitterly to be taken away from you. I was sorry for that circumstance when heavier troubles ought to have made me forget it
Your aunt is dead
Yes, a fortnight since, and she died full of regret, which I could not chase from her mind; she kept repeating, even during the last night of her existence, 'Frances, you will be so lonely when I am gone, so friendless:' she wished too that she could have been buried in Switzerland, and it was I who persuaded her in her old age to leave the banks of Lake Leman, and to come, only as it seems to die, in this flat region of Flanders. Willingly would I have observed her last wish, and taken her remains back to our own country, but that was impossible; I was forced to lay her here
She was ill but a short time, I presume
But three weeks. When she began to sink I asked Mdlle. Reuter's leave to stay with her and wait on her; I readily got leave
Do you return to the pensionnat
Mademoiselle, I shall not soon cease to regret your departure from my establishment, though indeed it is true that you have taught your class of pupils so well that they are all quite accomplished in the little works you manage so skilfully, and have not the slightest need of further instruction; my second teacher must in future supply your place, with regard to the younger pupils, as well as she can, though she is indeed an inferior artiste to you, and doubtless it will be your part now to assume a higher position in your calling; I am sure you will everywhere find schools and families willing to profit by your talents.' And then she paid me my last quarter's salary. I asked, as mademoiselle would no doubt think, very bluntly, if she designed to discharge me from the establishment. She smiled at my inelegance of speech, and answered that 'our connection as employer and employed was certainly dissolved, but that she hoped still to retain the pleasure of my acquaintance; she should always be happy to see me as a friend;' and then she said something about the excellent condition of the streets, and the long continuance of fine weather, and went away quite cheerful
She had frequently applied for Mdlle. Henri's address
Mdlle. Henri had always evaded giving it
Where do you live
I will see you safe home
Rue Notre Dame aux Neiges
Come in! come in
It is her whole stock, and she will exhaust it out of hospitality
What are you going to do
not surely to light a fire this hot evening? I shall be smothered
Indeed, monsieur, I feel it very chilly since the rain began; besides, I must boil the water for my tea, for I take tea on Sundays; you will be obliged to try and bear the heat
pauvre tante Julienne
Is this like England, monsieur
Like the England of a hundred years ago
Is it truly? Well, everything on this tray is at least a hundred years old: these cups, these spoons, this ewer, are all heirlooms; my great-grandmother left them to my grandmother, she to my mother, and my mother brought them with her from England to Switzerland, and left them to me; and, ever since I was a little girl, I have thought I should like to carry them back to England, whence they came
Will it make you think yourself at home for a moment
If I had a home in England, I believe it would recall it
You have then no home
None, nor ever have had. If ever I possess a home, it must be of my own making, and the task is yet to begin
Enough
enough; and now the rain is ceasing, and I must soon go
You have not yet found another situation to supply the place of that from which you were dismissed by Mdlle. Reuter
No, monsieur; I have made inquiries everywhere, but they all ask me for references; and to speak truth, I do not like to apply to the directress, because I consider she acted neither justly nor honourably towards me; she used underhand means to set my pupils against me, and thereby render me unhappy while I held my place in her establishment, and she eventually deprived me of it by a masked and hypocritical manoeuvre, pretending that she was acting for my good, but really snatching from me my chief means of subsistence, at a crisis when not only my own life, but that of another, depended on my exertions: of her I will never more ask a favour
How, then, do you propose to get on? How do you live now
I have still my lace-mending trade; with care it will keep me from starvation, and I doubt not by dint of exertion to get better employment yet; it is only a fortnight since I began to try; my courage or hopes are by no means worn out yet
And if you get what you wish, what then? what are? your ultimate views
To save enough to cross the Channel: I always look to England as my Canaan
Well, well -- ere long I shall pay you another visit; good evening now
I'll earn a right to do as I please in this matter, or I'll die in the contest. I have one object before me now -- to get that Genevese girl for my wife; and my wife she shall be -- that is, provided she has as much, or half as much regard for her master as he has for her. And would she be so docile, so smiling, so happy under my instructions if she had not? would she sit at my side when I dictate or correct, with such a still, contented, halcyon mien
Mademoiselle, I have forgotten one of my gloves; I must have left it here
Oh here is my glove! I had dropped it within the fender; good evening, mademoiselle
I am glad it is not yet winter
but in two months more come the winds and rains of November; would to God that before then I could earn the right, and the power, to shovel coals into that grate AD LIBITUM
Hope smiles on Effort
le maudit Anglais, Creemsvort
He is either mad or drunk
and in either case the old woman and the servants will be the better of a man's assistance
Come, M. Pelet
you had better go to bed
femme sotte et vicieuse
And the jade doats on your youth, you raw blockhead! and talks of your noble deportment, as she calls your accursed English formality -- and your pure morals, forsooth! des moeurs de Caton a-t-elle dit -- sotte
Que le dedain lui sied bien
il est beau comme Apollon quand il sourit de son air hautain
Pour moi
il me fait tout l'effet d'un chat-huant, avec ses besicles
la chambre de Madame
le salon de Madame
but
you know not where to go, nor how to live
and all this
because you fear an evil which may never happen
It will happen; you KNOW it will
Do what you feel is right; obey me, and even in the sloughs of want I will plant for you firm footing
F. E. HENRI
HUNSDEN YORKE HUNSDEN
Humph
A great deal
I wish him joy of the fidelity of the picture he has painted
What will he say when, instead of a pair of plump turtle doves, billing and cooing in a bower of roses, he finds a single lean cormorant, standing mateless and shelterless on poverty's bleak cliff? Oh, confound him! Let him come, and let him laugh at the contrast between rumour and fact. Were he the devil himself, instead of being merely very like him, I'd not condescend to get out of his way, or to forge a smile or a cheerful word wherewith to avert his sarcasm
Down, stupid tormenters
the man has done his duty; you shall not bait him thus by thoughts of what might have been; he relinquished a temporary and contingent good to avoid a permanent and certain evil he did well. Let him reflect now, and when your blinding dust and deafening hum subside, he will discover a path
gaufres
certain I must have dearly loved their sweet son, or I would not thus have hazarded my own life to save his
the happy pair
You will find her reading or writing
you can take your seat at her side; you need not startle her peace by undue excitement; you need not embarrass her manner by unusual action or language. Be as you always are; look over what she has written; listen while she reads; chide her, or quietly approve; you know the effect of either system; you know her smile when pleased, you you know the play of her looks when roused; you have the secret of awakening that expression you will, and you can choose amongst that pleasant variety. With you she will sit silent as long as it suits you to talk alone; you can hold her under a potent spell: intelligent as she is, eloquent as she can be, you can seal her lips, and veil her bright countenance with diffidence; yet, you know, she is not all monotonous mildness; you have seen, with a sort of strange pleasure, revolt, scorn, austerity, bitterness, lay energetic claim to a place in her feelings and physiognomy; you know that few could rule her as you do; you know she might break, but never bend under the hand of Tyranny and Injustice, but Reason and Affection can guide her by a sign. Try their influence now. Go -- they are not passions; you may handle them safely
A man is master of himself to a certain point, but not beyond it. Could I seek Frances to-night, could I sit with her alone in a quiet room, and address her only in the language of Reason and Affection
No
What a hot evening
locataire
And how are you
Can't you speak
les besicles
Oh, that's your game -- is it
Well, we'll see which is soonest tired
You did not ask for it, and you shall not have it
It is silly and dull
so I have not lost much
I thought you lived at Pelet's; I went there this afternoon. expecting to be starved to death by sitting in a boarding-school drawing-room, and they told me you were gone, had departed this morning; you had left your address behind you though, which I wondered at; it was a more practical and sensible precaution than I should have imagined you capable of. Why did you leave
Because M. Pelet has just married the lady whom you and Mr. Brown assigned to me as my wife
Oh, indeed
so you've lost both your wife and your place
Precisely so
You have got another place
No
You are in the way of getting one
No
That is bad; have you applied to Brown
No, indeed
You had better; he often has it in his power to give useful information in such matters
He served me once very well; I have no claim on him, and am not in the humour to bother him again
Oh, if you're bashful, and dread being intrusive, you need only commission me. I shall see him to-night; I can put in a word
I beg you will not, Mr. Hunsden; I am in your debt already; you did me an important service when I was at X ----; got me out of a den where I was dying: that service I have never repaid, and at present I decline positively adding another item to the account
If the wind sits that way, I'm satisfied. I thought my unexampled generosity in turning you out of that accursed counting-house would be duly appreciated some day: 'Cast your bread on the waters, and it shall be found after many days,' say the Scriptures. Yes, that's right, lad -- make much of me -- I'm a nonpareil: there's nothing like me in the common herd. In the meantime, to put all humbug aside and talk sense for a few moments, you would be greatly the better of a situation, and what is more, you are a fool if you refuse to take one from any hand that offers it
Very well, Mr. Hunsden; now you have settled that point, talk of something else. What news from X
well, Zoraide -- is she really married to Pelet
I tell you yes -- and if you don't believe me, go and ask the cure of St. Jacques
And your heart is broken
I am not aware that it is; it feels all right -- beats as usual
Then your feelings are less superfine than I took them to be; you must be a coarse, callous character, to bear such a thwack without staggering under it
Staggering under it? What the deuce is there to stagger under in the circumstance of a Belgian schoolmistress marrying a French schoolmaster? The progeny will doubtless be a strange hybrid race; but that's their Look out -- not mine
He indulges in scurrilous jests, and the bride was his affianced one
Who said so
Brown
He is; but in the meantime, if his gossip be founded on less than fact -- if you took no particular interest in Miss Zoraide -- why, O youthful pedagogue! did you leave your place in consequence of her becoming Madame Pelet
Because
because -- in short, Mr. Hunsden, I decline answering any more questions
What the deuce are you laughing at, Mr. Hunsden
At your exemplary composure. Well, lad, I'll not bore you; I see how it is: Zoraide has jilted you -- married some one richer, as any sensible woman would have done if she had had the chance
I suppose the affair has been conducted as such affairs always are amongst rational people: you offered her your youth and your talents-such as they are -- in exchange for her position and money: I don't suppose you took appearance, or what is called LOVE, into the account -- for I understand she is older than you, and Brown says, rather sensible-looking than beautiful. She, having then no chance of making a better bargain, was at first inclined to come to terms with you, but Pelet -- the head or a flourishing school -- stepped in with a higher bid; she accepted, and he has got her: a correct transaction -- perfectly so -- business-like and legitimate. And now we'll talk of something else
Do
You want to hear news from X ----? And what interest can you have in X ----? You left no friends there, for you made none. Nobody ever asks after you -- neither man nor woman; and if I mention your name in company, the men look as if I had spoken of Prester John; and the women sneer covertly. Our X ---- belles must have disliked you. How did you excite their displeasure
I don't know. I seldom spoke to them -- they were nothing to me. I considered them only as something to be glanced at from a distance; their dresses and faces were often pleasing enough to the eye: but I could not understand their conversation, nor even read their countenances. When I caught snatches of what they said, I could never make much of it; and the play of their lips and eyes did not help me at all
That was your fault, not theirs. There are sensible, as well as handsome women in X ----; women it is worth any man's while to talk to, and with whom I can talk with pleasure: but you had and have no pleasant address; there is nothing in you to induce a woman to be affable. I have remarked you sitting near the door in a room full of company, bent on hearing, not on speaking; on observing, not on entertaining; looking frigidly shy at the commencement of a party, confusingly vigilant about the middle, and insultingly weary towards the end. Is that the way, do you think, ever to communicate pleasure or excite interest? No; and if you are generally unpopular, it is because you deserve to be so
Content
No, you are not content; you see beauty always turning its back on you; you are mortified and then you sneer. I verily believe all that is desirable on earth -- wealth, reputation, love -- will for ever to you be the ripe grapes on the high trellis: you'll look up at them; they will tantalize in you the lust of the eye; but they are out of reach: you have not the address to fetch a ladder, and you'll go away calling them sour
Confound it! How doggedly self-approving the lad looks! I thought he was fit to die with shame, and there he sits grinning smiles, as good as to say, 'Let the world wag as it will, I've the philosopher's stone in my waist-coat pocket, and the elixir of life in my cupboard; I'm independent of both Fate and Fortune
Hunsden -- you spoke of grapes; I was thinking of a fruit I like better than your X ---- hot-house grapes -- an unique fruit, growing wild, which I have marked as my own, and hope one day to gather and taste. It is of no use your offering me the draught of bitterness, or threatening me with death by thirst: I have the anticipation of sweetness on my palate; the hope of freshness on my lips; I can reject the unsavoury, and endure the exhausting
For how long
Till the next opportunity for effort; and as the prize of success will be a treasure after my own heart, I'll bring a bull's strength to the struggle
Bad luck crushes bulls as easily as bullaces; and, I believe, the fury dogs you: you were born with a wooden spoon in your mouth, depend on it
I believe you; sad I mean to make my wooden spoon do the work of some people's silver ladles: grasped firmly, and handled nimbly, even a wooden spoon will shovel up broth
I see
I suppose you're one of those who develop best unwatched, and act best unaided-work your own way. Now, I'll go
Crimsworth Hall is sold
Sold
Yes; you know, of course, that your brother failed three months ago
What! Edward Crimsworth
Precisely; and his wife went home to her fathers; when affairs went awry, his temper sympathized with them; he used her ill; I told you he would be a tyrant to her some day; as to him
Ay, as to him -- what is become of him
Nothing extraordinary -- don't be alarmed; he put himself under the protection of the court, compounded with his creditors -- tenpence in the pound; in six weeks set up again, coaxed back his wife, and is flourishing like a green bay-tree
And Crimsworth Hall -- was the furniture sold too
Everything -- from the grand piano down to the rolling-pin
And the contents of the oak dining-room -- were they sold
Of course; why should the sofas and chairs of that room be held more sacred than those of any other
And the pictures
What pictures? Crimsworth had no special collection that I know of -- he did not profess to be an amateur
There were two portraits, one on each side the mantelpiece; you cannot have forgotten them, Mr. Hunsden; you once noticed that of the lady
Oh, I know! the thin-faced gentlewoman with a shawl put on like drapery.-- Why, as a matter of course, it would be sold among the other things. If you had been rich, you might have bought it, for I remember you said it represented your mother: you see what it is to be without a sou
But surely
I shall not always be so poverty-stricken; I may one day buy it back yet.-- Who purchased it? do you know
How is it likely? I never inquired who purchased anything; there spoke the unpractical man -- to imagine all the world is interested in what interests himself! Now, good night -- I'm off for Germany to-morrow morning; I shall be back here in six weeks, and possibly I may call and see you again; I wonder whether you'll be still out of place
That is none of mine
it must be meant for somebody else
Wm. Crimsworth, Esq., No --, -- St., Brussels
Mother
Who sent this picture? Who thought of me, saved it out of the wreck of Crimsworth Hall, and now commits it to the care of its natural keeper
There is a sort of stupid pleasure in giving a child sweets, a fool his bells, a dog a bone. You are repaid by seeing the child besmear his face with sugar; by witnessing how the fool's ecstasy makes a greater fool of him than ever; by watching the dog's nature come out over his bone. In giving William Crimsworth his mother's picture, I give him sweets, bells, and bone all in one; what grieves me is, that I cannot behold the result; I would have added five shillings more to my bid if the, auctioneer could only have promised me that pleasure. "H. Y. H. 

"P.S.-- You said last night you positively declined adding another item to your account with me; don't you think I've saved you that trouble
I owe you nothing, Hunsden -- not a fraction of a farthing: you have paid yourself in taunts
You have made me quite happy, and in a way that suits me; I do not feel an obligation irksome, conferred by your kind hand; I do not feel disposed to shun you because you have done me a favour; from this day you must consent to admit me to your intimate acquaintance, for I shall hereafter recur again and again to the pleasure of your society
Ainsi soit-il
What shall I do till evening
Signal of hope
But I will be a little calmer; I am not going to rush in, and get up a scene directly
What an absolute hush! Is she in? Is anybody in
And ne'er but once, my son,' he said, 'Was yon dark cavern trod; In persecution's iron days, When the land was left by God. From Bewley's bog, with slaughter red, A wanderer hither drew; And oft he stopp'd and turn'd his head, As by fits the night-winds blew. For trampling round by Cheviot-edge Were heard the troopers keen; And frequent from the Whitelaw ridge The death-shot flash'd between
Nothing
I must cultivate fortitude and cling to poetry; one is to be my support and the other my solace through life. Human affections do not bloom, nor do human passions glow for me
good evening
God, she must revive
Jane, till to-morrow you are free From tedious task and rule; This afternoon I must not see That yet pale face in school. "Seek in the garden-shades a seat, Far from the play-ground din; The sun is warm, the air is sweet: Stay till I call you in
Jane
Not quite so pale
Why will they part us, Jane
Monsieur
Frances, how much regard have you for me
Do speak
Monsieur, vous me faites mal; de grace lachez un peu ma main droite
Frances, how much regard have you for me
Mon maitre, j'en ai beaucoup
Frances, have you enough to give yourself to me as my wife?-- to accept me as your husband
Monsieur
Monsieur desire savoir si je consens -- si -- enfin, si je veux me marier avec lui
Justement
Monsieur sera-t-il aussi bon mari qu'il a ete bon maitre
I will try, Frances
C'est a dire, monsieur sera toujours un peu entete exigeant, volontaire
Have I been so, Frances
Mais oui; vous le savez bien
Have I been nothing else
Mais oui; vons avez ete mon meilleur ami
And what, Frances, are you to me
Votre devouee eleve, qui vous aime de tout son coeur
Will my pupil consent to pass her life with me? Speak English now, Frances
You have always made me happy; I like to hear you speak; I like to see you; I like to be near you; I believe you are very good, and very superior; I know you are stern to those who are careless and idle, but you are kind, very kind to the attentive and industrious, even if they are not clever. Master, I should be GLAD to live with you always
Master, I consent to pass my life with you
Very well, Frances
Monsieur
Well, Frances
Monsieur est raisonnable, n'eut-ce pas
Yes; especially when I am requested to be so in English: but why do you ask me? You see nothing vehement or obtrusive in my manner; am I not tranquil enough
Ce n'est pas cela
English
Well, monsieur, I wished merely to say, that I should like, of course, to retain my employment of teaching. You will teach still, I suppose, monsieur
Oh, yes! It is all I have to depend on
Bon!-- I mean good. Thus we shall have both the same profession. I like that; and my efforts to get on will be as unrestrained as yours -- will they not, monsieur
You are laying plans to be independent of me
Yes, monsieur; I must be no incumbrance to you -- no burden in any way
But, Frances, I have not yet told you what my prospects are. I have left M. Pelet's; and after nearly a month's seeking, I have got another place, with a salary of three thousand francs a year, which I can easily double by a little additional exertion. Thus you see it would be useless for you to fag yourself by going out to give lessons; on six thousand francs you and I can live, and live well
Life has been painful and laborious enough to you so far, Frances; you require complete rest; your twelve hundred francs would not form a very important addition to our income, and what sacrifice of comfort to earn it! Relinquish your labours: you must be weary, and let me have the happiness of giving you rest
How rich you are, monsieur
Three thousand francs
While I get only twelve hundred
However, it must be so for the present; and, monsieur, were you not saying something about my giving up my place? Oh no! I shall hold it fast
Think of my marrying you to be kept by you, monsieur! I could not do it; and how dull my days would be! You would be away teaching in close, noisy school-rooms, from morning till evening, and I should be lingering at home, unemployed and solitary; I should get depressed and sullen, and you would soon tire of me
Frances, you could read and study -- two things you like so well
Monsieur, I could not; I like a contemplative life, but I like an active life better; I must act in some way, and act with you. I have taken notice, monsieur, that people who are only in each other's company for amusement, never really like each other so well, or esteem each other so highly, as those who work together, and perhaps suffer together
You speak God's truth
and you shall have your own way, for it is the best way. Now, as a reward for such ready consent, give me a voluntary kiss
edentee, myope, rugueuse, ou bossue
the hair of my flesh stood up
a thing was secretly brought unto me, and mine ear received a little thereof; there was silence, and I heard a voice
In the midst of life we are in death
Necropolis
It contains a mansion prepared for you
Monsieur, there is a gentleman who knows you
Who is he
A person I knew in England
Why did he bow to me? He does not know me
Yes, he does know you, in his way
How, monsieur
Did you not read the expression of his eyes
Of his eyes? No. What did they say
To you they said, 'How do you do, Wilhelmina, Crimsworth?' To me, 'So you have found your counterpart at last; there she sits, the female of your kind
Monsieur, you could not read all that in his eyes; He was so soon gone
I read that and more, Frances; I read that he will probably call on me this evening, or on some future occasion shortly; and I have no doubt he will insist on being introduced to you; shall I bring him to your rooms
If you please, monsieur -- I have no objection; I think, indeed, I should rather like to see him nearer; he looks so original
You need not begin boasting, Monsieur le Professeur; I know about your appointment to -- College, and all that; Brown has told me
As to her, I'll come to that directly; but first I've a word for you. I see you are a scoundrel; you've no business to be promenading about with another man's wife. I thought you had sounder sense than to get mixed up in foreign hodge-podge of this sort
But the lady
She's too good for you evidently; she is like you, but something better than you -- no beauty, though; yet when she rose (for I looked back to see you both walk away) I thought her figure and carriage good. These foreigners understand grace. What the devil has she done with Pelet? She has not been married to him three months -- he must be a spoon
Pelet? How your head runs on Mons. and Madame Pelet! You are always talking about them. I wish to the gods you had wed Mdlle. Zoraide yourself
Was that young gentlewoman not Mdlle. Zoraide
No; nor Madame Zoraide either
Why did you tell a lie, then
I told no lie; but you are is such a hurry. She is a pupil of mine -- a Swiss girl
And of course you are going to be married to her? Don't deny that
Married! I think I shall -- if Fate spares us both ten weeks longer. That is my little wild strawberry, Hunsden, whose sweetness made me careless of your hothouse grapes
Stop! No boasting -- no heroics; I won't hear them. What is she? To what caste does she belong
She is a lace-mender
Well, you are the best; judge of your own affairs. A lace-mender may make a good wife as well as a lady; but of course you have taken care to ascertain thoroughly that since she has not education, fortune or station, she is well furnished with such natural qualities as you think most likely to conduce to your happiness. Has she many relations
None in Brussels
That is better. Relations are often the real evil in such cases. I cannot but think that a train of inferior connections would have been a bore to you to your life's end
Good night, William
Good night, lad. I wish you and your future wife much prosperity; and I hope she will satisfy your fastidious soul
I thought you would have liked to have seen Mdlle. Henri
Oh, that is the name! Yes -- if it would be convenient, I should like to see her -- but
Well
I should on no account wish to intrude
Come, then
Here, Mr. Hunsden
You understand English
A little
or else you'd never turn rabid about that dirty little country called England; for rabid, I see you are; I read Anglophobia in your looks, and hear it in your words. Why, mademoiselle, is it possible that anybody with a grain of rationality should feel enthusiasm about a mere name, and that name England? I thought you were a lady-abbess five minutes ago, and respected you accordingly; and now I see you are a sort of Swiss sibyl, with high Tory and high Church principles
England is your country
Yes
And you don't like it
I'd be sorry to like it! A little corrupt, venal, lord-and-king-cursed nation, full or mucky pride (as they say in --- shire), and helpless pauperism; rotten with abuses, worm-eaten with prejudices
You might say so of almost every state; there are abuses and prejudices everywhere, and I thought fewer in England than in other countries
Come to England and see. Come to Birmingham and Manchester; come to St. Giles' in London, and get a practical notion of how our system works. Examine the footprints of our august aristocracy; see how they walk in blood, crushing hearts as they go. Just put your head in at English cottage doors; get a glimpse of Famine crouched torpid on black hearthstones; of Disease lying bare on beds without coverlets, of Infamy wantoning viciously with Ignorance, though indeed Luxury is her favourite paramour, and princely halls are dearer to her than thatched hovels
I was not thinking of the wretchedness and vice in England; I was thinking of the good side -- of what is elevated in your character as a nation
There is no good side -- none at least of which you can have any knowledge; for you cannot appreciate the efforts of industry, the achievements of enterprise, or the discoveries of science: narrowness of education and obscurity of position quite incapacitate you from understanding these points; and as to historical and poetical associations, I will not insult you, mademoiselle, by supposing that you alluded to such humbug
But I did partly
I did, Mr. Hunsden. Are you of the number of those to whom such associations give no pleasure
Mademoiselle, what is an association? I never saw one. What is its length, breadth, weight, value -- ay, VALUE? What price will it bring in the market
Your portrait, to any one who loved you, would, for the sake of association, be without price
were suddenly stripped of the faculty of association, I think he would soon rush forth from 'the ever-during gates,' leave heaven, and seek what he had lost in hell. Yes, in the very hell from which he turned 'with retorted scorn
Since England is nothing, why do the continental nations respect her so
I should have thought no child would have asked that question
If you had been my pupil, as I suppose you once had the misfortune to be that of a deplorable character not a hundred miles off, I would have put you in the corner for such a confession of ignorance. Why, mademoiselle, can't you see that it is our GOLD which buys us French politeness, German good-will, and Swiss servility
Swiss
servility
Do you call my countrymen servile
Do you abuse Switzerland to me, Mr. Hunsden? Do you think I have no associations? Do you calculate that I am prepared to dwell only on what vice and degradation may be found in Alpine villages, and to leave quite out of my heart the social greatness of my countrymen, and our blood-earned freedom, and the natural glories of our mountains? You're mistaken -- you're mistaken
Social greatness? Call it what you will, your countrymen are sensible fellows; they make a marketable article of what to you is an abstract idea; they have, ere this, sold their social greatness and also their blood-earned freedom to be the servants of foreign kings
You never were in Switzerland
Yes -- I have been there twice
You know nothing of it
I do
And you say the Swiss are mercenary, as a parrot says 'Poor Poll,' or as the Belgians here say the English are not brave, or as the French accuse them of being perfidious: there is no justice in your dictums
There is truth
I tell you, Mr. Hunsden, you are a more unpractical man than I am an unpractical woman, for you don't acknowledge what really exists; you want to annihilate individual patriotism and national greatness as an atheist would annihilate God and his own soul, by denying their existence
Where are you flying to? You are off at a tangent -- I thought we were talking about the mercenary nature of the Swiss
We were -- and if you proved to me that the Swiss are mercenary to-morrow (which you cannot do) I should love Switzerland still
You would be mad, then -- mad as a March hare -- to indulge in a passion for millions of shiploads of soil, timber, snow, and ice
Not so mad as you who love nothing
There's a method in my madness; there's none in yours
Your method is to squeeze the sap out of creation and make manure of the refuse, by way of turning it to what you call use
You cannot reason at all
there is no logic in you
Better to be without logic than without feeling
Is that a hit at me, mademoiselle? Do you suppose I am without feeling
I suppose you are always interfering with your own feelings,and those of other people, and dogmatizing about the irrationality of this, that, and the other sentiment, and then ordering it to be suppressed because you imagine it to be inconsistent with logic
I do right
You do right? Indeed, no! You are much mistaken if you think so. Just be so good as to let me get to the fire, Mr. Hunsden; I have something to cook
Were you born in Switzerland
I should think so, or else why should I call it my country
And where did you get your English features and figure
I am English, too; half the blood in my veins is English; thus I have a right to a double power of patriotism, possessing an interest in two noble, free, and fortunate countries
You had an English mother
Yes, yes; and you, I suppose, had a mother from the moon or from Utopia, since not a nation in Europe has a claim on your interest
On the contrary, I'm a universal patriot, if you could understand me rightly: my country is the world
Monsieur, supper is served
Frances, what do you mean by preparing, supper? we had no intention of staying
Ah, monsieur, but you have stayed, and supper is prepared; you have only the alternative of eating it
fromage francais
No more did the French at Waterloo
There is no comparison between the cases
mine was a sham fight
Sham or real, it's up with you
No; though I have neither logic nor wealth of words, yet in a case where my opinion really differed from yours, I would adhere to it when I had not another word to say in its defence; you should be baffled by dumb determination. You speak of Waterloo; your Wellington ought to have been conquered there, according to Napoleon; but he persevered in spite of the laws of war, and was victorious in defiance of military tactics. I would do as he did
I'll be bound for it you would; probably you have some of the same sort of stubborn stuff in you. "I should be sorry if I had not; he and Tell were brothers, and I'd scorn the Swiss, man or woman, who had none of the much-enduring nature of our heroic William in his soul
If Tell was like Wellington, he was an ass
Does not ASS mean BAUDET
No, no
it means an ESPRIT-FORT; and now
it is high time to go
Good bye
I shall be off for this glorious England to-morrow, and it may be twelve months or more before I come to Brussels again; whenever I do come I'll seek you out, and you shall see if I don't find means to make you fiercer than a dragon. You've done pretty well this evening, but next interview you shall challenge me outright. Meantime you're doomed to become Mrs. William Crimsworth, I suppose; poor young lady? but you have a spark of spirit; cherish it, and give the Professor the full benefit thereof
Are you married. Mr. Hunsden
No. I should have thought you might have guessed I was a Benedict by my look
Well, whenever you marry don't take a wife out of Switzerland; for if you begin blaspheming Helvetia, and cursing the cantons -- above all, if you mention the word ASS in the same breath with the name Tell (for ass IS baudet, I know; though Monsieur is pleased to translate it ESPRIT-FORT) your mountain maid will some night smother her Breton-bretonnant, even as your own Shakspeare's Othello smothered Desdemona
I am warned
and so are you, lad
I hope yet to hear of a travesty of the Moor and his gentle lady, in which the parts shall be reversed according to the plan just sketched -- you, however, being in my nightcap. Farewell, mademoiselle
Death from such fingers would not be without charms
Mon Dieu
c'est qu'il fait des compliments! je ne m'y suis pas attendu
And that is your lace-mender
and you reckon you have done a fine, magnanimous thing in offering to marry her? You, a scion of Seacombe, have proved your disdain of social distinctions by taking up with an ouvriere! And I pitied the fellow, thinking his feelings had misled him, and that he had hurt himself by contracting a low match
Just let go my collar, Hunsden
Yes, that's my lace-mender
and she is to be mine for life -- God willing
God is not willing -- you can't suppose it; what business have you to be suited so well with a partner? And she treats you with a sort of respect, too, and says, 'Monsieur' and modulates her tone in addressing you, actually, as if you were something superior! She could not evince more deference to such a one as I, were she favoured by fortune to the supreme extent of being my choice instead of yours
Hunsden, you're a puppy. But you've only seen the title-page of my happiness; you don't know the tale that follows; you cannot conceive the interest and sweet variety and thrilling excitement of the narrative
Bribe a seraph to fetch you a coal of fire from heaven, if you will
and with it kindle life in the tallest, fattest, most boneless, fullest-blooded of Ruben's painted women -- leave me only my Alpine peri, and I'll not envy you
God bless you
Yes, monsieur
It was impossible to help it
I don't work enough
What now
What now
while I am still at my miserable twelve hundred francs. I CAN do better, and I WILL
You work as long and as diligently as I do, Frances
Yes, monsieur, but I am not working in the right way, and I am convinced of it
You wish to change -- you have a plan for progress in your mind; go and put on your bonnet; and, while we take our walk, you shall tell me of it
Yes, monsieur
leave to go out too, as it is so very fine; so will you be kind enough to lock the door, and take the key with you
Kiss me, Mrs. Crimsworth
There, monsieur
Why do you always call me 'Monsieur?' Say, 'William
I cannot pronounce your W; besides, 'Monsieur' belongs to you; I like it best
What was her plan
You have conceived a plan, Frances
and a good plan; execute it; you have my free consent, and wherever and whenever my assistance is wanted, ask and you shall have
Thank you, monsieur
to be polished off by Mrs. Crimsworth
Bon soir, monsieur
malice
bizarreries anglaises
caprices insulaires
God bless my little son
Victor rests well: he smiled in his sleep; he has your smile, monsieur
I should have tried to endure the evil or cure it for awhile; and when I found it intolerable and incurable, I should have left my torturer suddenly and silently
And if law or might had forced you back again
What, to a drunkard, a profligate, a selfish spendthrift, an unjust fool
Yes
I would have gone back; again assured myself whether or not his vice and my misery were capable of remedy; and if not, have left him again
And if again forced to return, and compelled to abide
I don't know
Why do you ask me, monsieur
Monsieur, if a wife's nature loathes that of the man she is wedded to, marriage must be slavery. Against slavery all right thinkers revolt, and though torture be the price of resistance, torture must be dared: though the only road to freedom lie through the gates of death, those gates must be passed; for freedom is indispensable. Then, monsieur, I would resist as far as my strength permitted; when that strength failed I should be sure of a refuge. Death would certainly screen me both from bad laws and their consequences
Voluntary death, Frances
No, monsieur. I'd have courage to live out every throe of anguish fate assigned me, and principle to contend for justice and liberty to the last
I see you would have made no patient Grizzle. And now, supposing fate had merely assigned you the lot of an old maid, what then? How would you have liked celibacy
Not much, certainly. An old maid's life must doubtless be void and vapid -- her heart strained and empty. Had I been an old maid I should have spent existence in efforts to fill the void and ease the aching. I should have probably failed, and died weary and disappointed, despised and of no account, like other single women. But I'm not an old maid
I should have been, though, but for my master. I should never have suited any man but Professor Crimsworth -- no other gentleman, French, English, or Belgian, would have thought me amiable or handsome; and I doubt whether I should have cared for the approbation of many others, if I could have obtained it. Now, I have been Professor Crimsworth's wife eight years, and what is he in my eyes? Is he honourable, beloved
I cannot tell where it is gone, monsieur
but I know that, whenever it is wanted, it will come back again
tout l'air d'un conspirateur
You call her ideal; but see, here is her shadow; and there cannot be a shadow without a substance
straight and harmonious features
Lucia
That is a real head
I think so
All was real in Lucia
And she was somebody you would have liked to marry -- but could not
I should certainly have liked to marry her, and that I HAVE not done so is a proof that I COULD not
What do YOU think of it
I am sure Lucia once wore chains and broke them
I do not mean matrimonial chains
but social chains of some sort. The face is that of one who has made an effort, and a successful and triumphant effort, to wrest some vigorous and valued faculty from insupportable constraint; and when Lucia's faculty got free, I am certain it spread wide pinions and carried her higher than
Than what
Than 'les convenances' permitted you to follow
I think you grow spiteful -- impertinent
Lucia has trodden the stage
You never seriously thought of marrying her; you admired her originality, her fearlessness, her energy of body and mind; you delighted in her talent, whatever that was, whether song, dance, or dramatic representation; you worshipped her beauty, which was of the sort after your own heart: but I am sure she filled a sphere from whence you would never have thought of taking a wife
Ingenious
whether true or not is another question. Meantime, don't you feel your little lamp of a spirit wax very pale, beside such a girandole as Lucia's
Yes
Candid, at least; and the Professor will soon be dissatisfied with the dim light you give
Will you, monsieur
My sight was always too weak to endure a blaze, Frances
Better a thousand times he should be a milksop than what he, Hunsden, calls 'a fine lad;' and moreover she says that if Hunsden were to become a fixture in the neighbourhood, and were not a mere comet, coming and going, no one knows how, when, where, or why, she should be quite uneasy till she had got Victor away to a school at least a hundred miles off; for that with his mutinous maxims and unpractical dogmas, he would ruin a score of children
Oh, papa, I'll never forgive you! I'll never forgive you
You shot Yorke -- I saw it from the window. I never believed you could be so cruel -- I can love you no more
He might have been cured -- you should have tried -- you should have burnt the wound with a hot iron, or covered it with caustic. You gave no time; and now it is too late -- he is dead
Monsieur est trop applique
I shall soon have done
Crimsworth! I say, Crimsworth! take that pen out of his hand, mistress, and make him lift up his head. "Well, Hunsden ? I hear you
I was at X ---- yesterday! your brother Ned is getting richer than Croesus by railway speculations; they call him in the Piece Hall a stag of ten; and I have heard from Brown. M. and Madame Vandenhuten and Jean Baptiste talk of coming to see you next month. He mentions the Pelets too; he says their domestic harmony is not the finest in the world, but in business they are doing 'on ne peut mieux,' which circumstance he concludes will be a sufficient consolation to both for any little crosses in the affections. Why don't you invite the Pelets to ---- shire, Crimsworth? I should so like to see your first flame, Zoraide. Mistress, don't be jealous, but he loved that lady to distraction; I know it for a fact. Brown says she weighs twelve stones now; you see what you've lost, Mr. Professor. Now, Monsieur and Madame, if you don't come to tea, Victor and I will begin without you
Papa, come
</text>
