<text>
I'll take the odds against Caravan
In poneys
Done
They say that Caravan looks puffy
They are taking seven to two against him freely over the way
I believe it's all right
Do you know I dreamed last night something about Mango
Well
I have no opinion of him. I gave Charles Egremont the odds against Mango this morning; he goes with us, you know. By the bye, who is our fourth
I thought of Milford
What say you
Milford is going with St James and Punch Hughes
Well, let us come into supper, and we shall see some fellow we like
Come from Lady St Julian's, Fitz
Yes; why were not you there
I never go anywhere
everything bores me so
Well, will you go to Epsom with us to-morrow, Alfred
I take Berners and Charles Egremont, and with you our party will be perfect
I feel so cursed blas
It will give you a fillip, Alfred
do you all the good in the world
Nothing can do me good
I should be quite content if anything could do me harm. Waiter, bring me a tumbler of Badminton
And bring me one too
Well, Eugene, suppose you come with us
I think I shall go down to Hampton Court and play tennis
As it is the Derby, nobody will be there
And I will go with you, Eugene
and we will dine together afterwards at the Toy. Anything is better than dining in this infernal London
Well, for my part
I do not like your suburban dinners. You always get something you can't eat, and cursed bad wine
I rather like bad wine
one gets so bored with good wine
Do you want the odds against Hybiscus, Berners
All I want is some supper, and as you are not using your place
You shall have it. Oh! here's Milford, he will give them me
Ah, Egremont! come and sit here
I saw you waltzing with the little Bertie, old fellow
and therefore did not stay to speak to you, as I thought we should meet here. I am to call for you, mind
How shall we all feel this time to-morrow
The happiest fellow at this moment must be Cockie Graves
He can have no suspense I have been looking over his book, and I defy him, whatever happens, not to lose
Poor Cockie
he has asked me to dine with him at the Clarendon on Saturday
Cockie is a very good Cockie
and Caravan is a very good horse; and if any gentleman sportsman present wishes to give seven to two, I will take him to any amount
My book is made up
and I stand or fall by Caravan
And I
And I
And I
Well, mark my words
Rat- trap wins
There is not a horse except Caravan
fit for a borough stake
You used to be all for Phosphorus, Egremont
Yes; but fortunately I have got out of that scrape. I owe Phip Dormer a good turn for that. I was the third man who knew he had gone lame
And what are the odds against him now
Oh! nominal; forty to one,-- what you please
He won't run
John Day told me he had refused to ride him
I believe Cockie Graves might win something if Phosphorus came in first
How close it is to-night
Waiter, give me some Seltzer water; and open another window; open them all
By Jove! that's a flash
Will any one do anything about Hybiscus
Will any one do anything about Hybiscus
I'll give you five to one
No; I'll take six
Well, I'll give you six. What do you say about Mango
Eleven to two against Mango
I should like to do a little business with you, Mr Chippendale
but I must have six to one
Eleven to two, and no mistake
You shall have six to one, my Lord
Seven to four against the favourite; seven to two against Caravan; eleven to two against Mango. What about Benedict? Will any one do anything about Pocket Hercules? Thirty to one against Dardanelles
Done
Five and thirty ponies to one against Phosphorus
I will give forty
Forty to one
Don't you think that Phosphorus may after all have some chance
I should be cursed sorry to be deep against him
Mr Chippendale
go and press Mr Egremont about Phosphorus. I should not be surprised if you got a good thing
Twenty to one against Man-trap
Mr Egremont will not take
You must have been too eager
After
You look a little low, Charley
By Jove
Only think of Cockie Graves having gone and done it
visiting and taking the surrenders of divers religious houses
civil and religious liberty
marvellous boy
the glory of his order and the shame
the Great Revolution families
the Great Revolution families
glorious revolution
the cause for which Hampden had died on the field, and Sydney on the scaffold
nothing but such a constitution as you have in England can have the credit that is necessary to raise such sums as a great war requires
Catholic and Apostolic church
HIS STRENGTH LAY IN HIS KNOWLEDGE OF ENGLAND
What will Wellington do? After all he has done, he will not be content to be quiet. He will change the dynasty
in which lay Lord Shaftesbury's strength
My dear Charles
we must forget your naughty horse. I sent you a little note this morning, because I wished to see you most particularly before you went out. Affairs
affairs are critical
No doubt of that
Why
There will be a dissolution
What are we coming in
The present men will not better their majority
I hope not
Why you always said, that with another general election we must come in, whoever dissolved
But that was with the court in our favour
What, has the king changed
I thought it was all right
All was right
These men would have been turned out again, had he only lived three months more
Lived
Yes
the king is dying
He may live a month
he cannot live two. It is the greatest of secrets; known at this moment only to four individuals, and I communicate it to you, my dear Charles, in that absolute confidence which I hope will always subsist between us, because it is an event that may greatly affect your career
How so, my dear mother
Marbury! I have settled with Mr Tadpole that you shall stand for the old borough. With the government in our hands, as I had anticipated at the general election, success I think was certain: under the circumstances which we must encounter, the struggle will be more severe, but I think we shall do it: and it will be a happy day for me to have our own again, and to see you in Parliament, my dear child
Well, my dear mother, I should like very much to be in Parliament, and particularly to sit for the old borough; but I fear the contest will be very expensive
Oh! I have no doubt
that we shall have some monster of the middle class, some tinker or tailor, or candlestick-maker, with his long purse, preaching reform and practising corruption: exactly as the liberals did under Walpole: bribery was unknown in the time of the Stuarts; but we have a capital registration, Mr Tadpole tells me. And a young candidate with the old name will tell
and I shall go down and canvass, and we must do what we can
I have great faith in your canvassing
but still, at the same time, the powder and shot
Are essential
I know it, in these corrupt days: but Marney will of course supply those. It is the least he can do: regaining the family influence, and letting us hold up our heads again. I shall write to him the moment I am justified
perhaps you will do so yourself, Charles
Why, considering I have not seen my brother for two years, and we did not part on the best possible terms
But that is all forgotten
By your good offices, dear mother, who are always doing good: and yet
I am not disposed to write to Marney, especially to ask a favour
Well, I will write
though I cannot admit it is any favour. Perhaps it would be better that you should see him first. I cannot understand why he keeps so at the Abbey. I am sure I found it a melancholy place enough in my time. I wish you had gone down there, Charles, if it had been only for a few days
Well I did not, my dear mother, and I cannot go now. I shall trust to you. But are you quite sure that the king is going to die
I repeat to you, it is certain
certain, certain, certain. My authority cannot be mistaken: but no consideration in the world must throw you off your guard at this moment; breathe not the shadow of what you know
A. St J
Poor woman! she is always wrong
Her quadrille will never take place, which is a pity, as it is to consist only of beauties and eldest sons. I suppose I must send her a line
C.M
stateswoman
these people could not form a cabinet
that it would be another Canning affair
old nobility
his majesty has been slightly indisposed within the last few days
Poor woman
she is always wrong. I know
that Prince Esterhazy has been pressing his long-postponed investiture as a Grand Cross, in order that he may dine at this very banquet; and it has been announced to him that it is impossible, the king's health will not admit of it. When a simple investiture is impossible, a state banquet to the four orders is very probable. No
What a happiness it is to have a clever mother
but then, you know
I never did believe in that hay fever
He can't last ten days
You're out for our lives
Don't you make too sure for yourselves
It does not follow that because we are out, that you are in
How do you mean
There is such a person as Lord Durham in the world
Pish
You may pish
but if we have a radical government, as I believe and hope, they will not be able to get up the steam as they did in -31; and what with church and corn together, and the Queen Dowager, we may go to the country with as good a cry as some other persons
I will back Melbourne against the field, now
Lord Durham dined at Kensington on Thursday
and not a whig present
Ay; Durham talks very fine at dinner
What do you hear
I am told he has quite rallied
Don't you flatter yourself
Well, we shall hear what they say on the hustings
Who's afraid
No, no, my dear fellow, you are dead beat; the stake is worth playing for, and don't suppose we are such flats as to lose the race for want of jockeying. Your humbugging registration will never do against a new reign. Our great men mean to shell out, I tell you; we have got Croucher; we will denounce the Carlton and corruption all over the kingdom; and if that won't do, we will swear till we are black in the face, that the King of Hanover is engaged in a plot to dethrone our young Queen
They certainly have a very good cry
After all, the registration might be better
but still it is a very good one
scene
Well Charles
How are you George
Do you know, old fellow, it makes me quite happy to see you here again. Suppose we take a glass of wine
draw him out
interest
No priestcraft at Marney
I wanted very much to come and canvass for you
but George did not like it
The less the family interfered the better
and for my part, I was very much alarmed when I heard my mother had gone down
Oh! my mother did wonders
we should have been beat without her. Indeed, to tell the truth, I quite gave up the thing the moment they started their man. Before that we were on velvet; but the instant he appeared everything was changed, and I found some of my warmest supporters, members of his committee
You had a formidable opponent, Lord Marney told me
Who was he
Oh! a dreadful man! A Scotchman, richer than Croesus, one McDruggy, fresh from Canton, with a million of opium in each pocket, denouncing corruption, and bellowing free trade
But they do not care much for free trade in the old borough
No, it was a mistake
and the cry was changed the moment my opponent was on the ground. Then all the town was placarded with 'Vote for McDruggy and our young Queen,' as if he had coalesced with her Majesty
My mother must have been in despair
We issued our placard instantly of 'Vote for our young Queen and Egremont,' which was at least more modest, and turned out more popular
That I am sure was my mother
No
it was the effusion of a far more experienced mind. My mother was in hourly communication with head quarters, and Mr Taper sent down the cry by express
Peel, in or out, will support the Poor Law
He must
It is impossible
He will carry it out
you'll see, or the land will not support him
I wish
we could manage some modification about out-door relief
Modification
why there has been nothing but modification. What we want is stringency
The people will never bear it
there must be some change
You cannot go back to the abuses of the old system
Better go back to the old system, than modify the new
I wish the people would take to it a little more
they certainly do not like it in our parish
The people are very contented here, eh Slimsey
Very
If the sovereign could only know her best friends
And avoid the fatal mistakes of her predecessor
Charles, another glass of claret
She might yet rally round the throne a body of men
Then we will go to the ladies
It is a great pleasure for me to see you again, Mr Egremont
Your father was my earliest and kindest friend. I remember you at Firebrace, a very little boy. Happy to see you again, Sir, in so eminent a position; a legislator -- one of our legislators. It gave me a sincere satisfaction to observe your return
You are very kind, Sir Vavasour
But it is a responsible position
Think you they'll stand? A majority. I suppose, they have; but, I conclude, in time; Sir Robert will have it in time? We must not be in a hurry; 'the more haste'-- you know the rest. The country is decidedly conservative. All that we want now is a strong government, that will put all things to rights. If the poor king had lived
He would have sent these men to the right-abouts
Ah! the poor king
He was entirely with us
You think it was too late, then
You are a young man entering political life
everything depends on the first step. You have a great opportunity. Nothing can be done by a mere individual. The most powerful body in this country wants a champion
But you can depend on Peel
He is one of us: we ought to he able to depend on him. But I have spoken to him for an hour, and could get nothing out of him
He is cautious; but depend upon it, he will stand or fall by the land
I am not thinking of the land
of something much more important; with all the influence of the land, and a great deal more besides; of an order of men who are ready to rally round the throne, and are, indeed, if justice were done to them, its natural and hereditary champions (Egremont looked perplexity); I am speaking
I am speaking of the baronets
The baronets! And what do they want
Their rights; their long withheld rights. The poor king was with us. He has frequently expressed to me and other deputies, his determination to do us justice; but he was not a strong-minded man
and in these revolutionary and levelling times, he had a hard task perhaps. And the peers, who are our brethren, they were, I fear, against us. But in spite of the ministers, and in spite of the peers, had the poor king lived, we should at least have had the badge
The badge
It would have satisfied Sir Grosvenor le Draughte
and he had a strong party with him; he was for compromise, but d -- him, his father was only an accoucheur
And you wanted more
All, or nothing
principle is ever my motto -- no expediency. I made a speech to the order at the Clarendon; there were four hundred of us; the feeling was very strong
A powerful party
And a military order, sir, if properly understood. What could stand against us? The Reform Bill could never have passed if the baronets had been organized
I have no doubt you could bring us in now
That is exactly what I told Sir Robert. I want him to be brought in by his own order. It would be a grand thing
There is nothing like esprit de corps
And such a body
Picture us for a moment, to yourself going down in procession to Westminster for example to hold a chapter. Five or six hundred baronets in dark green costume,-- the appropriate dress of equites aurati; each not only with his badge, but with his collar of S.S.; belted and scarfed; his star glittering; his pennon flying; his hat white with a plume of white feathers; of course the sword and the gilt spurs. In our hand, the thumb ring and signet not forgotten, we hold our coronet of two balls
A magnificent spectacle
Evidently the body destined to save this country
Blending all sympathies: the crown of which they are the peculiar champions; the nobles of whom they are the popular branch; the people who recognize in them their natural leaders. But the picture is not complete. We should be accompanied by an equal number of gallant knights, our elder sons, who, the moment they come of age, have the right to claim knighthood of their sovereign, while their mothers and wives, no longer degraded to the nomenclature of a sheriff's lady, but resuming their legal or analogical dignities, and styled the 'honourable baronetess,' with her coronet and robe, or the 'honourable knightess,' with her golden collar of S.S., and chaplet or cap of dignity, may either accompany the procession, or ranged in galleries in a becoming situation, rain influence from above
I am all for their going in the procession
The point is not so clear
and indeed, although we have been firm in defining our rightful claims in our petitions, as for 'honorary epithets, secondary titles, personal decorations, and augmented heraldic bearings.' I am not clear if the government evinced a disposition for a liberal settlement of the question, I would not urge a too stringent adherence to every point. For instance, I am prepared myself, great as would be the sacrifice, even to renounce the claim of secondary titles for our eldest sons, if for instance they would secure us our coronet
Fie, fie, Sir Vavasour
remember principle: no expediency, no compromise
You are right
and do you know, Mr Egremont, you are the only individual I have yet met out of the Order, who has taken a sensible view of this great question, which, after all, is the question of the day
Here they are
Lord Marney himself
And Sir Vavasour Firebrace, I declare. I wonder how he came here
Well, Snigford
this is a pretty business; I'll have this stopped directly
It is not so much the fire, sir
but the temper of the people that alarms me. Do you know, sir, there were two or three score of them here, and, except my own farm servants, not one of them would lend a helping hand to put out the flames, though, with water so near, they might have been of great service
You told my brother, Lord Marney, this
Oh! it's Mr Charles I'm speaking to! My service to you, sir; I'm glad to see you in these parts again. It's a long time that we have had that pleasure, sir. Travelling in foreign parts, as I have heard say
Something of that; but very glad to find myself at home once more, Mr Bingley, though very sorry to have such a welcome as a blazing rick at the Abbey farm
Things is very bad here; I can't make out, for my part, what has become of the country. Tayn't the same land to live in as it was when you used to come to our moor coursing, with the old lord; you remember that, I be sure, Mr Charles
'Tis not easy to forget good sport, Mr Bingley. With your permission, I will put my horse up here for half an hour. I have a fancy to stroll to the ruins
You wunna find them much changed
They have seen a deal of different things in their time! But you will taste our ale, Mr Charles
When I return
And what do you think of this fire
I think 'tis hard times for the poor, sir
But rick-burning will not make the times easier, my good man
You lean against an ancient trunk
They say 'tis the trunk beneath whose branches the monks encamped when they came to this valley to raise their building. It was their house, till with the wood and stone around them, their labour and their fine art, they piled up their abbey. And then they were driven out of it, and it came to this. Poor men! poor men
They would hardly have forfeited their resting-place had they deserved to retain it
They were rich. I thought it was poverty that was a crime
But they had committed other crimes
It may be so; we are very frail. But their history has been written by their enemies; they were condemned without a hearing; the people rose oftentimes in their behalf; and their property was divided with those on whose reports it was forfeited
At any rate, it was a forfeiture which gave life to the community
the lands are held by active men and not by drones
A drone is one who does not labour
whether he wear a cowl or a coronet, 'tis the same to me. Somebody I suppose must own the land; though I have heard say that this individual tenure is not a necessity; but however this may be, I am not one who would object to the lord, provided he were a gentle one. All agree the Monastics were easy landlords; their rents were low; they granted leases in those days. Their tenants too might renew their term before their tenure ran out: so they were men of spirit and property. There were yeomen then, sir: the country was not divided into two classes, masters and slaves; there was some resting-place between luxury and misery. Comfort was an English habit then, not merely an English word
And do you really think they were easier landlords than our present ones
Human nature would tell us that, even if history did not confess it. The Monastics could possess no private property; they could save no money; they could bequeath nothing. They lived, received, and expended in common. The monastery too was a proprietor that never died and never wasted. The farmer had a deathless landlord then; not a harsh guardian, or a grinding mortgagee, or a dilatory master in chancery, all was certain; the manor had not to dread a change of lords, or the oaks to tremble at the axe of the squandering heir. How proud we are still in England of an old family, though, God knows, 'tis rare to see one now. Yet the people like to say, We held under him, and his father and his grandfather before him: they know that such a tenure is a benefit. The abbot was ever the same. The monks were in short in every district a point of refuge for all who needed succour, counsel, and protection; a body of individuals having no cares of their own, with wisdom to guide the inexperienced, with wealth to relieve the suffering, and often with power to protect the oppressed
You plead their cause with feeling
It is my own; they were the sons of the People, like myself
I had thought rather these monasteries were the resort of the younger branches of the aristocracy
Instead of the pension list
Well, if we must have an aristocracy, I would sooner that its younger branches should be monks and nuns, than colonels without regiments, or housekeepers of royal palaces that exist only in name. Besides see what advantage to a minister if the unendowed aristocracy were thus provided for now. He need not, like a minister in these days, entrust the conduct of public affairs to individuals notoriously incompetent, appoint to the command of expeditions generals who never saw a field, make governors of colonies out of men who never could govern themselves, or find an ambassador in a broken dandy or a blasted favourite. It is true that many of the monks and nuns were persons of noble birth. Why should they not have been? The aristocracy had their share; no more. They, like all other classes, were benefitted by the monasteries: but the list of the mitred abbots when they were suppressed, shows that the great majority of the heads of houses were of the people
Well, whatever difference of opinion may exist on these points
there is one on which there can be no controversy: the monks were great architects
Ah! there it is
if the world but only knew what they had lost! I am sure that not the faintest idea is generally prevalent of the appearance of England before and since the dissolution. Why, sir, in England and Wales alone, there were of these institutions of different sizes; I mean monasteries, and chantries and chapels, and great hospitals; considerably upwards of three thousand; all of them fair buildings, many of them of exquisite beauty. There were on an average in every shire at least twenty structures such as this was; in this great county double that number: establishments that were as vast and as magnificent and as beautiful as your Belvoirs and your Chatsworths, your Wentworths and your Stowes. Try to imagine the effect of thirty or forty Chatsworths in this county the proprietors of which were never absent. You complain enough now of absentees. The monks were never non- resident. They expended their revenue among those whose labour had produced it. These holy men too built and planted as they did everything else for posterity: their churches were cathedrals; their schools colleges; their halls and libraries the muniment rooms of kingdoms; their woods and waters, their farms and gardens, were laid out and disposed on a scale and in a spirit that are now extinct: they made the country beautiful, and the people proud of their country
Yet if the monks were such public benefactors, why did not the people rise in their favour
They did, but too late. They struggled for a century, but they struggled against property and they were beat. As long as the monks existed, the people, when aggrieved, had property on their side. And now 'tis all over
and travellers come and stare at these ruins, and think themselves very wise to moralize over time. They are the children of violence, not of time. It is war that created these ruins, civil war, of all our civil wars the most inhuman, for it was waged with the unresisting. The monasteries were taken by storm, they were sacked, gutted, battered with warlike instruments, blown up with gunpowder; you may see the marks of the blast against the new tower here. Never was such a plunder. The whole face of the country for a century was that of a land recently invaded by a ruthless enemy; it was worse than the Norman conquest; nor has England ever lost this character of ravage. I don't know whether the union workhouses will remove it. They are building something for the people at last. After an experiment of three centuries, your gaols being full, and your treadmills losing something of their virtue, you have given us a substitute for the monasteries
You lament the old faith
I am not viewing the question as one of faith
It is not as a matter of religion, but as a matter of right, that I am considering it: as a matter, I should say, of private right and public happiness. You might have changed if you thought fit the religion of the abbots as you changed the religion of the bishops: but you had no right to deprive men of their property, and property moreover which under their administration so mainly contributed to the welfare of the community
As for community
with the monasteries expired the only type that we ever had in England of such an intercourse. There is no community in England; there is aggregation, but aggregation under circumstances which make it rather a dissociating, than an uniting, principle
You also lament the dissolution of these bodies
There is so much to lament in the world in which we live
that I can spare no pang for the past
Yet you approve of the principle of their society; you prefer it, you say, to our existing life
Yes; I prefer association to gregariousness
That is a distinction
It is a community of purpose that constitutes society
without that, men may be drawn into contiguity, but they still continue virtually isolated
And is that their condition in cities
It is their condition everywhere; but in cities that condition is aggravated. A density of population implies a severer struggle for existence, and a consequent repulsion of elements brought into too close contact. In great cities men are brought together by the desire of gain. They are not in a state of co-operation, but of isolation, as to the making of fortunes; and for all the rest they are careless of neighbours. Christianity teaches us to love our neighbour as ourself; modern society acknowledges no neighbour
Well, we live in strange times
When the infant begins to walk, it also thinks that it lives in strange times
Your inference
That society, still in its infancy, is beginning to feel its way
This is a new reign
perhaps it is a new era
I think so
I hope so
Well, society may be in its infancy
but, say what you like, our Queen reigns over the greatest nation that ever existed
Which nation
for she reigns over two
Yes
Two nations; between whom there is no intercourse and no sympathy; who are as ignorant of each other's habits, thoughts, and feelings, as if they were dwellers in different zones, or inhabitants of different planets; who are formed by a different breeding, are fed by a different food, are ordered by different manners, and are not governed by the same laws
You speak of
THE RICH AND THE POOR
I understand, then
I understand then, that you have in fact paid nothing, and that my mother will give you a thousand pounds. That won't go very far
It will hardly pay for the chairing
the restoration of the family influence was celebrated on so great a scale
The family influence must be supported
and my mother will give you a thousand pounds; as I said, that will not do much for you, but I like her spirit. Contests are very expensive things, yet I quite approve of what you have done, especially as you won. It is a great thing in these ten pound days to win your first contest, and shows powers of calculation which I respect. Everything in this world is calculation; there is no such thing as luck, depend upon it; and if you go on calculating with equal exactness, you must succeed in life. Now the question is, what is to be done with your election bills
Exactly
You want to know what I will do for you, or rather what I can do for you; that is the point. My inclination of course is to do everything for you; but when I calculate my resources, I may find that they are not equal to my inclination
I am sure, George, you will do everything, and more than everything you ought
I am extremely pleased about this thousand pounds of my mother, Charles
Most admirable of her! But she always is so generous
Her jointure has been most regularly paid
Always be exact in your payments, Charles. There is no end to the good it produces. Now if I had not been so regular in paying my mother her jointure, she would not in all probability have been able to have given you this thousand pounds; and, therefore, to a certain extent, you are indebted for this thousand pounds to me
I am obliged to pay my mother her jointure, whether ricks are burnt or not
It's very hard, don't you think so
But these ricks were Bingley's
But he was not insured, and he will want some reduction in his rent, and if I do not see fit to allow it him, which I probably shall not, for he ought to have calculated on these things, I have ricks of my own, and they may be burnt any night
But you, of course, are insured
No, I am not; I calculate 'tis better to run the risk
I wonder why ricks are burnt now, and were not in old days
Because there is a surplus population in the kingdom
and no rural police in the county
You were speaking of the election, George
You were speaking of the election, George
About the election, Charles. Well, the long and short of it is this: that I wish to see you comfortable. To be harassed about money is one of the most disagreeable incidents of life. It ruffles the temper, lowers the spirits, disturbs the rest, and finally breaks up one's health. Always, if you possibly can, keep square. And if by any chance you do find yourself in a scrape, come to me. There is nothing under those circumstances like the advice of a cool-headed friend
As valuable as the assistance of a cold-hearted one
But there is one thing of which you must particularly beware
there is one thing worse even than getting into difficulties -- patching them up. The patching-up system is fatal; it is sure to break down; you never get clear. Now, what I want to do for you, Charles, is to put you right altogether. I want to see you square and more than square, in a position which will for ever guarantee you from any annoyance of this kind
He is a good fellow after all
That thousand pounds of my mother was very ... propos
I suppose it was a sop that will keep them all right till we have made our arrangements
Oh! there is no pressure of that kind
if I see my way, and write to them, of course they will be quite satisfied
Excellent
and nothing could be more convenient to me, for, between ourselves, my balances are very low at this moment. The awful expenditure of keeping up this place! And then such terrible incumbrances as I came to
Incumbrances, George! Why, I thought you had not any. There was not a single mortgage
No mortgages; they are nothing; you find them, you get used to them, and you calculate accordingly. You quite forget the portions for younger children
Yes; but you had plenty of ready money for them
I had to pay them though
Had I not, I might have bought Grimblethorpe with the money; such an opportunity will never occur again
But you talked of incumbrances
Ah! my dear fellow
you don't know what it is to have to keep up an estate like this; and very lucky for you. It is not the easy life you dream of. There's buildings -- I am ruined in buildings -- our poor dear father thought he left me Marney without an incumbrance; why, there was not a barn on the whole estate that was weather-proof; not a farm-house that was not half in ruins. What I have spent in buildings! And draining! Though I make my own tiles, draining, my dear fellow, is a something of which you have not the least idea
Well
you think, then, I had better write to them and say
Ah! now for your business
Now, I will tell you what I can do for you. I was speaking to Arabella about it last night; she quite approves my idea. You remember the De Mowbrays? Well, we are going to stay at Mowbray Castle, and you are to go with us. It is the first time they have received company since their great loss. Ah! you were abroad at the time, and so you are behind hand. Lord Mowbray's only son, Fitz-Warene, you remember him, a deuced clever fellow, he died about a year ago, in Greece, of a fever. Never was such a blow! His two sisters, Lady Joan and Lady Maud, are looked upon as the greatest heiresses in the kingdom; but I know Mowbray well; he will make an eldest son of his eldest daughter. She will have it all; she is one of Arabella's dearest friends; and you are to marry her
You have no idea what a load this has taken off my mind, my dear Charles; so great has my anxiety always been about you, particularly of late. To see you lord of Mowbray Castle will realize my fondest hopes. That is a position fit for a man, and I know none more worthy of it than yourself, though I am your brother who say so. Now let us come and speak to Arabella about it
Well, Arabella
it is all settled; Charles agrees with me about going to Mowbray Castle, and I think the sooner we go the better. What do you think of the day after to-morrow? That will suit me exactly, and therefore I think we had better fix on it. We will consider it settled
Do not you think, George
that we had better talk it over a little
Not at all
Charles will go, and it quite suits me, and therefore what necessity for any consultation
Oh! if you and Charles like to go, certainly
only I shall be very sorry to lose your society
How do you mean lose our society Arabella? Of course you must go with us. I particularly want you to go. You are Lady Joan's most intimate friend; I believe there is no one she likes so much
I cannot go the day after to-morrow
I cannot help it
you should have told me this before. I wrote to Mowbray to-day, that we should be with him the day after to-morrow, and stay a week
But you never mentioned it to me
I should like to know when I am to find time to mention the contents of every letter I write
particularly with all the vexatious business I have had on my hands to-day. But so it is; the more one tries to save you trouble, the more discontented you get
No, not discontented, George
I do not know what you call discontented; but when a man has made every possible arrangement to please you and every body, and all his plans are to be set aside merely because the day he has fixed on does not exactly suit your fancy, if that be not discontent, I should like very much to know what is, Arabella
I find you have been good enough to mould my destiny
How so
You have decided on I hear the most important step of my life
Indeed you perplex me
Lady Joan Fitz-Warene, your friend
Accomplished
Oh! far beyond that; I have heard even men say that no one knew so much
A regular blue
Oh! no; not at all a blue; not that kind of knowledge. But languages and learned books; Arabic, and Hebrew, and old manuscripts. And then she has an observatory, and was the first person who discovered the comet. Dr Buckland swears by her; and she corresponds with Arago
And her sister, is she the same
Lady Maud: she is very religious. I do not know her so well
Is she pretty
Some people admire her very much
I never was at Mowbray. What sort of a place is it
Oh! it is very grand
but like all places in the manufacturing districts, very disagreeable. You never have a clear sky. Your toilette table is covered with blacks; the deer in the park seem as if they had bathed in a lake of Indian ink; and as for the sheep, you expect to see chimney- sweeps for the shepherds
And do you really mean to go on Thursday
I think we had better put it off
We must go
Let me speak to Marney
Oh! no. We must go. I am annoyed about this dear little Poinsett: she has been to stay with me so very often, and she has only been here three days. When she comes in again, I wish you would ask her to sing, Charles
Our way perhaps lies the same
I should deem not
nor are we alone
And we must be stirring, for we have far to go
My journey is very brief
and I am on horseback
And we on foot
nor shall we stop till we reach Mowbray
large-acred
It is well
that I am not a member of a temperance society like you, Stephen, or it would be difficult to reward this good man for his care of our steed. I will take a cup of the drink of Saxon kings
And you -- shall I bring you a glass of nature's wine
I have drank of the spring of the Holy Abbey
and none other must touch my lips this eve
Come, our course must be brisk
I hope
that if ever we regain our right, my father, and that we ever can save by the interposition of divine will seems to me clearly impossible, that you will never forget how bitter it is to he driven from the soil; and that you will bring back the people to the land
I would pursue our right for no other cause
After centuries of sorrow and degradation, it should never be said, that we had no sympathy with the sad and the oppressed
After centuries of sorrow and degradation
let it not be said that you acquired your right only to create a baron or a squire
Nay, thou shalt have thy way, Stephen
if ever the good hour come. As many acres as thou choosest for thy new Jerusalem
Call it what you will, Walter
but if I ever gain the opportunity of fully carrying the principle of association into practice, I will sing 'Nunc me dimittas
Nunc me dimittas
Now, tell me, Stephen
think you not it would be a fairer lot to bide this night at some kind monastery, than to be hastening now to that least picturesque of all creations, a railway station
The railways will do as much for mankind as the monasteries did
Had it not been for the railway, we should never have made our visit to Marney Abbey
Nor seen its last abbot's tomb
When I marked your name upon the stone, my father;-- woe is me. but I felt sad indeed, that it was reserved for our blood to surrender to ruthless men that holy trust
He never surrendered
He was tortured and hanged
He is with the communion of saints
I would I could see a communion of Men
and then there would be no more violence, for there would be no more plunder
You must regain our lands for us, Stephen
promise me my father that I shall raise a holy house for pious women, if that ever hap
We will not forget our ancient faith
the only old thing that has not left us
I cannot understand
why you should ever have lost sight of these papers, Walter
You see, friend, they were never in my possession; they were never mine when I saw them. They were my father's; and he was jealous of all interference. He was a small yeoman, who had risen in the war time, well to do in the world, but always hankering after the old tradition that the lands were ours. This Hatton got hold of him; he did his work well, I have heard;-- certain it is my father spared nothing. It is twenty- five years come Martinmas since he brought his writ of right; and though baffled, he was not beaten. But then he died; his affairs were in great confusion; he had mortgaged his land for his writ, and the war prices were gone. There were debts that could not be paid. I had no capital for a farm. I would not sink to be a labourer on the soil that had once been our own. I had just married; it was needful to make a great exertion. I had heard much of the high wages of this new industry; I left the land
And the papers
I never thought of them, or thought of them with disgust, as the cause of my ruin. Then when you came the other day, and showed me in the book that the last abbot of Marney was a Walter Gerard, the old feeling stirred again; and I could not help telling you that my fathers fought at Azincourt, though I was only the overlooker at Mr Trafford's mill
A good old name of the good old faith
and a blessing be on it
We have cause to bless it
I thought it then something to serve a gentleman; and as for my daughter, she, by their goodness, was brought up in holy walls, which have made her what she is
Nature made her what she is
But this Hatton -- you know nothing of his whereabouts
Never heard of him since. I had indeed about a year after my father's death, cause to enquire after him; but he had quitted Mowbray, and none could give me tidings of him. He had lived I believe on our law-suit, and vanished with our hopes
I hear the murmur of the train
'Tis the up-train
We have yet a quarter of an hour; we shall be in good time
I fear, holy sister
that I am even later than I promised
Those that come in our lady's name are ever welcome
Sister Marion
we have been to visit a holy place
All places are holy with holy thoughts, my brother
Dear father, good night
the blessings of all the saints be on thee,-- and on thee, Stephen, though thou dost not kneel to them
Good night, mine own child
I could believe in saints when I am with thee
Good night,-- SYBIL
Come, come, it's a prime piece
And so it is widow
Come, come, it's getting late, and your wife's ill; you're a good soul, we'll say fi'pence a pound, and I'll throw you the scrag end in for love
No butcher's meat to-morrow for us, widow
And why not, neighbour? With your wages, you ought to live like a prize-fighter, or the mayor of Mowbray at least
Wages
I wish you may get 'em. Those villains, Shuffle and Screw, have sarved me with another bate ticket: and a pretty figure too
Oh! the carnal monsters
If their day don't come, the bloody-minded knaves
And for small cops, too! Small cops be hanged! Am I the man to send up a bad-bottomed cop, Widow Carey
You sent up for snicks! I have known you man and boy John Hill these twenty summers, and never heard a word against you till you got into Shuffle and Screw's mill. Oh! they are a bad yarn, John
They do us all, widow. They pretends to give the same wages as the rest, and works it out in fines. You can't come, and you can't go, but there's a fine; you're never paid wages, but there's a bate ticket. I've heard they keep their whole establishment on factory fines
Soul alive, but those Shuffle and Screw are rotten, snickey, bad yarns
Now ma'am, if you please; fi'pence ha'penny; no, ma'am, we've no weal left. Weal, indeed! you look very like a soul as feeds on weal
Well, it gets late
and if you like to take this scrag end home to your wife neighbour Hill, we can talk of the rest next Saturday. And what's your will, sir
Well, you need not be so fierce, Mother Carey
Don't mother me
go to your own mother, who is dying in a back cellar without a winder, while you've got lodgings in a two pair
Dying; she's only drunk
And if she is only drunk
what makes her drink but toil; working from five o'clock in the morning to seven o'clock at night, and for the like of such as you
That's a good one
I should like to know what my mother ever did for me, but give me treacle and laudanum when I was a babby to stop my tongue and fill my stomach; by the token of which, as my gal says, she stunted the growth of the prettiest figure in all Mowbray
Well, I never
No; I never heard a thing like that
What, not when you cut up the jackass and sold it for veal cutlets, mother
Hold your tongue, Mr Imperence
It's very well known you're no Christian, and who'll believe what you say
It's very well known that I'm a man what pays his way
and don't keep a huckster's stall to sell carrion by star-light; but live in a two pair, if you please, and has a wife and family, or as good
O! you aggravating imp
Why, Madam Carey, what has Dandy Mick done to thee
Ah! is it you, my child
The dandy has been giving me some of his imperence
But I meant nothing, dame
It was a joke,-- only a joke
Well, let it pass
And where have you been this long time, my child; and who's your friend
Well, I have left Mr Trafford's mill
That's a bad job
for those Traffords are kind to their people. It's a great thing for a young person to be in their mill
So it is
but then it was so dull. I can't stand a country life, Mrs Carey. I must have company
Well, I do love a bit of gossip myself
And then I'm no scholar
and never could take to learning. And those Traffords had so many schools
Learning is better than house and land
though I'm no scholar myself; but then, in my time, things was different. But young persons
Yes
I don't think I could get through the day, if it wurno' for our Institute
And what's that
The Shoddy-Court Literary and Scientific, to be sure
we have got fifty members, and take in three London papers; one 'Northern Star' and two 'Moral Worlds
And where are you now, child
I am at Wiggins and Webster's
and this is my partner. We keep house together; we have a very nice room in Arbour Court, No. 7, high up; it's very airy. If you will take a dish of tea with us to-morrow, we expect some friends
I take it kindly
and so you keep house together! All the children keep house in these days. Times is changed indeed
And we shall be happy to see you, Mick; and Julia, if you are not engaged
Oh! that we shall
And what are you going to do now, Caroline
Well, we had no thoughts; but I said to Harriet, as it is a fine night, let us walk about as long as we can and then to- morrow we will lie in bed till afternoon
That's all well eno' in winter time with plenty of baccy
but at this season of the year I must have life. The moment I came out I bathed in the river, and then went home and dressed
and now I am going to the Temple. I'll tell you what, Julia has been pricked to-day with a shuttle, 'tis not much, but she can't go out; I'll stand treat, and take you and your friend to the Temple
Well, that's delight
There's no one does the handsome thing like you, Dandy Mick, and I always say so. Oh! I love the Temple! 'Tis so genteel! I was speaking of it to Harriet last night; she never was there. I proposed to go with her -- but two girls alone,-- you understand me. One does not like to be seen in these places, as if one kept no company
Very true
and now we'll be off. Good night, widow
You'll remember us to-morrow evening
To- morrow evening! The Temple
I think the world is turned upside downwards in these parts. A brat like Mick Radley to live in a two pair, with a wife and family, or as good as he says; and this girl asks me to take a dish of tea with her and keeps house! Fathers and mothers goes for nothing
'tis the children gets the wages
and there it is
Is he here
In the Temple, Mr Morley, asking for you and your friend more than once. I think you had better go up. I know he wishes to see you
THE TEMPLE OF THE MUSES
Thespian recitations
There, go; hands wanted at the upper end; two American gentlemen from Lowell singing out for Sherry Cobler; don't know what it is; give them our bar mixture; if they complain, say it's the Mowbray slap-bang, and no mistake. Must have a name, Mr Morley; name's everything; made the fortune of the Temple: if I had called it the Saloon, it never would have filled, and perhaps the magistrates never have granted a licence
Your mistress told us we should find you here
Plenty to tell you
If information is wanted in this part of the world, I flatter myself -- Come, Master Gerard, here's a table; what shall I call for? glass of the Mowbray slap-bang? No better; the receipt has been in our family these fifty years. Mr Morley I know won't join us. Did you say a cup of tea, Mr Morley? Water, only water; well, that's strange. Boy alive there, do you hear me call? Water wanted, glass of water for the Secretary of the Mowbray Temperance and Teatotal. Sing it out. I like titled company. Brush
And so you can give us some information about this
Be back directly
Beg pardon, Mr Morley
but saw one of the American gentlemen brandishing his bowie-knife against one of my waiters; called him Colonel; quieted him directly; a man of his rank brawling with a help; oh! no; not to be thought of; no squabbling here; licence in danger
You were saying
Ah! yes, about that man Hatton; remember him perfectly well; a matter of twenty or it may be nineteen years since he bolted. Queer fellow; lived upon nothing; only drank water; no temperance and teetotal then, so no excuse. Beg pardon, Mr Morley; no offence I hope; can't bear whims; but respectable societies, if they don't drink, they make speeches, hire your rooms, leads to business
And this Hatton
Ah! a queer fellow; lent him a one-pound note -- never saw it again -- always remember it -- last one-pound note I had. He offered me an old book instead; not in my way; took a china jar for my wife. He kept a curiosity shop; always prowling about the country, picking up old books and hunting after old monuments; called himself an antiquarian; queer fellow, that Hatton
And you have heard of him since
Not a word
never knew any one who had
I thought you had something to tell us about him
So I have; I can put you in the way of getting hold of him and anything else. I havn't lived in Mowbray man and boy for fifty years; seen it a village, and now a great town full of first-rate institutions and establishments like this
I say I havn't lived here all this time and talked to the people for nothing
Well, we are all attention
Hush
Now ladies, now gentlemen, if you please; silence if you please for a song from a Polish lady. The Signora sings English like a new-born babe
It's almost too much
the enthusiasm of these people. I believe they look upon me as a father
And you think you have some clue to this Hatton
They say he has no relations
I have heard as much
Another glass of the bar mixture, Master Gerard. What did we call it? Oh! the bricks and beans -- the Mowbray bricks and beans; known by that name in the time of my grandfather. No more! No use asking Mr Morley I know. Water! well, I must say -- and yet, in an official capacity, drinking water is not so unnatural
And Hatton
they say he has no relations, eh
They do, and they say wrong. He has a relation; he has a brother; and I can put you in the way of finding him
Well, that looks like business
and where may he be
Not here
he never put his foot in the Temple to my knowledge; and lives in a place where they have as much idea of popular institutions as any Turks or heathen you ever heard of
And where might we find him
What's that
Here boys, brush about. The American gentleman is a whittling his name on that new mahogany table. Take him the printed list of rules, stuck up in a public place, under a great coat, and fine him five shillings for damaging the furniture. If he resists (he has paid for his liquor), call in the police; X. Z. No. 5 is in the bar, taking tea with your mistress. Now brush
And this place is
In the land of mines and minerals
about ten miles from ---. He works in metals on his own account. You have heard of a place called Hell-house Yard; well, he lives there; and his name is Simon
And does he keep up any communication with his brother, think you
Nay, I know no more; at least at present
The secretary asked me about a person absent without leave for twenty years and who was said to have no relations, I found you one and a very near one. You are at the station and you have got your ticket. The American gentleman's wiolent. Here's the police. I must take a high tone
Well, what do you think of it
It's just what I thought the Queen lived in
but indeed I'm all of a flutter
Well, don't look as if you were
Come along gals
who's afraid? Here, we'll sit down at this table. Now, what shall we have? Here waiter; I say waiter
Yes, sir, yes, sir
Well, why don't you come when I call
I have been hallooing these ten minutes. Couple of glasses of bar mixture for these ladies and go of gin for myself. And I say waiter, stop, stop, don't be in such a deuced hurry; do you think folks can drink without eating;-- sausages for three; and damme, take care they are not burnt
Yes, sir, directly, directly
That's the way to talk to these fellows
It's pretty Miss Harriet
Oh! it is beautiful
You never were here before; it's the only place. That's the Lady of the Lake
I've seen her at the Circus, with real water
Are the plates very hot
Very sir
Hot plates half the battle
Now, Caroline; here, Miss Harriet; don't take away your plate, wait for the mash; they mash their taters here very elegant
Well
Well
say what they please, there's nothing like life
At the
the greatest fun we ever had was a singing class
I pity them poor devils in the country
we got some of them at Collinson's -- come from Suffolk they say; what they call hagricultural labourers, a very queer lot, indeed
Ah! them's the himmigrants
they're sold out of slavery, and sent down by Pickford's van into the labour market to bring down our wages
We'll teach them a trick or two before they do that
Where are you, Miss Harriet
I'm at Wiggins and Webster's, sir
Where they clean machinery during meal-time; that won't do
I see one of your partners coming in
Well, Devilsdust, how are you
home
play
I have some thoughts of joining the Total Abstinence
ever since I read Stephen Morley's address it has been in my mind. We shall never get our rights till we leave off consuming exciseable articles; and the best thing to begin with is liquors
Well, I could do without liquors myself
If I was a lady, I would never drink anything except fresh milk from the cow
Tea for my money
I must say there's nothing I grudge for good tea. Now I keep house, I mean always to drink the best
Well, you have not yet taken the pledge, Dusty
and so suppose we order a go of gin and talk this matter of temperance over
I suppose you have heard this last dodge of Shuffle and Screw, Dusty
What's that
Every man had his key given him this evening -- half-a-crown a week round deducted from wages for rent. Jim Plastow told them he lodged with his father and didn't want a house; upon which they said he must let it
Their day will come
I really think that those Shuffle and Screws are worse even than Truck and Trett. You knew where you were with those fellows; it was five-and-twenty per cent, off wages and very bad stuff for your money. But as for Shuffle and Screw, what with their fines and their keys, a man never knows what he has to spend. Come
let's have a toast -- Confusion to Capital
That's your sort
Come, Caroline; drink to your partner's toast, Miss Harriet. Money's the root of all evil, which nobody can deny. We'll have the rights of labour yet; the ten-hour bill, no fines, and no individuals admitted to any work who have not completed their sixteenth year
No, fifteen
The people won't bear their grievances much longer
I think one of the greatest grievances the people have
is the beaks serving notice on Chaffing Jack to shut up the Temple on Sunday nights
It is infamous
aynt we to have no recreation? One might as well live in Suffolk, where the immigrants come from, and where they are obliged to burn ricks to pass the time
As for the rights of labour
the people goes for nothing with this machinery
And you have opened your mouth to say a very sensible thing Miss Harriet
but if I were Lord Paramount for eight-and-forty hours, I'd soon settle that question. Wouldn't I fire a broadside into their 'double deckers?' The battle of Navarino at Mowbray fair with fourteen squibs from the admiral's ship going off at the same time, should be nothing to it
Labour may be weak, but Capital is weaker
Their capital is all paper
I tell you what
The only thing, my hearties, that can save this here nation, is -- a -- good strike
Your lordship's dinner is served
You came by the railroad
From Marham; about ten miles from us
A great revolution
Isn't it
I fear it has a very dangerous tendency to equality
I suppose Lord Marney gives them all the opposition in his power
There is nobody so violent against railroads as George
I cannot tell you what he does not do! He organized the whole of our division against the Marham line
I rather counted on him
Not until the compensation was settled
George never opposes them after that. He gave up all opposition to the Marham line when they agreed to his terms
And yet
I think if Lord Marney would take a different view of the case and look to the moral consequences, he would hesitate. Equality, Lady Marney, equality is not our m,tier. If we nobles do not make a stand against the levelling spirit of the age, I am at a loss to know who will fight the battle. You many depend upon it that these railroads are very dangerous things
I have no doubt of it. I suppose you have heard of Lady Vanilla's trip from Birmingham? Have you not, indeed! She came up with Lady Laura, and two of the most gentlemanlike men sitting opposite her; never met, she says, two more intelligent men. She begged one of them at Wolverhampton to change seats with her, and he was most politely willing to comply with her wishes, only it was necessary that his companion should move at the same time, for they were chained together! Two of the swell mob, sent to town for picking a pocket at Shrewsbury races
A countess and a felon! So much for public conveyances
But Lady Vanilla is one of those who will talk with everybody
She is very amusing though
I dare say she is
but believe me, my dear Lady Marney, in these times especially, a countess has something else to do than be amusing
You think as property has its duties as well as its rights, rank has its bores as well as its pleasures
How do you do, Mr Jermyn
when did you arrive in the North? I have been fighting your battles finely since I saw you
You are always fighting one's battles Lady Firebrace; it is very kind of you. If it were not for you, we should none of us know how much we are all abused
They say you gave the most radical pledges
I heard Lord Muddlebrains say that if he had had the least idea of your principles, you would not have had his influence
Muddlebrains can't command a single vote
He is a political humbug, the greatest of all humbugs; a man who swaggers about London clubs and consults solemnly about his influence, and in the country is a nonentity
Well, that can't be said of Lord Clarinel
And have you been defending me against Lord Clarinel's attacks
No; but I am going to Wemsbury, and then I have no doubt I shall have the opportunity
I am going to Wemsbury myself
And what does Lord Clarinel think of your pledge about the pension list
He never told me
I believe you did not pledge yourself to the ballot
It is a subject that requires some reflection
I must consult some profound politician like Lady Firebrace. By the bye, you told my mother that the conservatives would have a majority of fifteen. Do you think they will have as much
I said Mr Tadpole gave us a majority of fifteen
I knew he was in error; because I had happened to see Lord Melbourne's own list, made up to the last hour; and which gave the government a majority of sixty. It was only shown to three members of the cabinet
I must get you to interest Lord de Mowbray in our cause
I have sent him a large packet of documents. You know, he is one of us; still one of us. Once a baronet, always a baronet. The dignity merges, but does not cease; and happy as I am to see one covered with high honours, who is in every way so worthy of them, still I confess to you it is not so much as Earl de Mowbray that your worthy father interests me, as in his undoubted character and capacity of Sir Altamont Fitz-Warene, baronet
You have the data on which you move I suppose well digested
The case is clear; as far as equity is concerned, irresistible; indeed the late king pledged himself to a certain point. But if you would do me the favour of reading our memorial
The proposition is not one adapted to our present civilisation
A baronetcy has become the distinction of the middle class; a physician, our physician for example, is a baronet; and I dare say some of our tradesmen; brewers, of people of that class. An attempt to elevate them into an order of nobility, however inferior, would partake in some degree of the ridiculous
And has the duke escaped his gout this year
A very slight touch; I never knew my father so well. I expect you will meet him here. We look for him daily
I shall be delighted; I hope he will come to Marney in October. I keep the blue ribbon cover for him
What you suggest is very just
If we only in our own spheres made the exertion, the general effect would be great. Marney Abbey, for instance, I believe one of the finest of our monastic remains,-- that indeed is not disputed -- diminished yearly to repair barns; the cattle browsing in the nave; all this might be prevented, If my brother would not consent to preserve or to restore, still any member of the family, even I, without expense, only with a little zeal as you say, might prevent mischief, might stop at least demolition
If this movement in the church had only revived a taste for Christian architecture
it would not have been barren, and it has done so much more! But I am surprised that old families can be so dead to our national art; so full of our ancestors, their exploits, their mind. Indeed you and I have no excuse for such indifference Mr Egremont
And I do not think I shall ever again be justly accused of it
you plead its cause so effectively. But to tell you the truth, I have been thinking of late about these things; monasteries and so on; the influence of the old church system on the happiness and comfort of the People
And on the tone of the Nobles -- do not you think so
I know it is the fashion to deride the crusades, but do not you think they had their origin in a great impulse, and in a certain sense, led to great results? Pardon me, if I speak with emphasis, but I never can forget I am a daughter of the first crusaders
The tone of society is certainly lower than of yore
It is easy to say we view the past through a fallacious medium. We have however ample evidence that men feel less deeply than of old and act with less devotion. But how far is this occasioned by the modern position of our church? That is the question
You must speak to Mr St Lys about that
Do you know him
No; is he here
Next to mamma
because it possessed such a beautiful church
aristocratic
the Unknown God
And how do you find the people about you, Marney
All very well, my lord
Infantado
Ossuna
They begin to get a little uneasy here
We have nothing to complain of
We continue reducing the rates, and as long as we do that the country must improve. The workhouse test tells. We had the other day a case of incendiarism, which frightened some people: but I inquired into it, and am quite satisfied it originated in purely accidental circumstances; at least nothing to do with wages. I ought to be a judge, for it was on my own property
And what is the rate of wages, in your part of the world, Lord Marney
Oh! good enough: not like your manufacturing districts; but people who work in the open air, instead of a furnace, can't expect, and don't require such. They get their eight shillings a week; at least generally
Eight shillings a week
Can a labouring man with a family, perhaps of eight children, live on eight shillings a week
Oh! as for that
And yet
how they contrive to live is to me marvellous
Oh! as for that
I have generally found the higher the wages the worse the workman. They only spend their money in the beer-shops. They are the curse of this country
But what is a poor man to do
They may say what they like, but it is all an affair of population
I would rather believe that it is an affair of resources
It comes to the same thing
Nothing can put this country right but emigration on a great scale; and as the government do not choose to undertake it, I have commenced it for my own defence on a small scale. I will take care that the population of my parishes is not increased. I build no cottages and I destroy all I can; and I am not ashamed or afraid to say so
You have declared war to the cottage, then
It is not at the first sound so startling a cry as war to the castle
But you think it may lead to it
I love not to be a prophet of evil
the question of the day
Mr Egremont has a great feeling for Christian architecture, Mr St Lys, and wishes particularly to visit our church of which we are so proud
Oh! how I envy you at Marney
No manufactures, no smoke; living in the midst of a beautiful park and surrounded by a contented peasantry
It is very delightful
but then we are so very dull; we have really no neighbourhood
I think that such a great advantage
I must say I like my friends from London. I never know what to say to the people here. Excellent people, the very best people in the world; the way they behaved to poor dear Fitz- Warene, when they wanted him to stand for the county, I never can forget; but then they do not know the people we know, or do the things we do; and when you have gone through the routine of county questions, and exhausted the weather and all the winds, I am positively, my dear Lady Marney, aux abois, and then they think you are proud, when really one is only stupid
I am very fond of work
and I talk to them always about it
Ah! you are fortunate, I never could work; and Joan and Maud, they neither of them work. Maud did embroider a banner once for her brother; it is in the hail. I think it beautiful; but somehow or other she never cultivated her talent
For all that has occurred or may occur
I blame only the Church. The church deserted the people; and from that moment the church has been in danger and the people degraded. Formerly religion undertook to satisfy the noble wants of human nature, and by its festivals relieved the painful weariness of toil. The day of rest was consecrated, if not always to elevated thought, at least to sweet and noble sentiments. The church convened to its solemnities under its splendid and almost celestial roofs amid the finest monuments of art that human hands have raised, the whole Christian population; for there, in the presence of God, all were brethren. It shared equally among all its prayer, its incense, and its music; its sacred instructions, and the highest enjoyments that the arts could afford
You believe then in the efficacy of forms and ceremonies
What you call forms and ceremonies represent the divinest instincts of our nature. Push your aversion to forms and ceremonies to a legitimate conclusion, and you would prefer kneeling in a barn rather than in a cathedral. Your tenets would strike at the very existence of all art, which is essentially spiritual
I am not speaking abstractedly
but rather with reference to the indirect connection of these forms and ceremonies with another church. The people of this country associate them with an enthralling superstition and a foreign dominion
With Rome
yet forms and ceremonies existed before Rome
But practically
has not their revival in our service at the present day a tendency to restore the Romish system in this country
It is difficult to ascertain what may be the practical effect of certain circumstances among the uninformed
In all these church discussions, we are apt to forget that the second Testament is avowedly only a supplement. Jehovah- Jesus came to complete the 'law and the prophets.' Christianity is completed Judaism, or it is nothing. Christianity is incomprehensible without Judaism, as Judaism is incomplete; without Christianity. What has Rome to do with its completion; what with its commencement? The law was not thundered forth from the Capitolian mount; the divine atonement was not fulfilled upon Mons Sacer. No; the order of our priesthood comes directly from Jehovah; and the forms and ceremonies of His church are the regulations of His supreme intelligence. Rome indeed boasts that the authenticity of the second Testament depends upon the recognition of her infallibility. The authenticity of the second Testament depends upon its congruity with the first. Did Rome preserve that? I recognize in the church an institution thoroughly, sincerely, catholic: adapted to all climes and to all ages. I do not bow to the necessity of a visible head in a defined locality; but were I to seek for such, it would not be at Rome. I cannot discover in its history however memorable any testimony of a mission so sublime. When Omnipotence deigned to be incarnate, the Ineffable Word did not select a Roman frame. The prophets were not Romans; the apostles were not Romans; she, who was blessed above all women, I never heard she was a Roman maiden. No, I should look to a land more distant than Italy, to a city more sacred even than Rome
Simmons
you need not rouse this story any more; my daughter has left us
Has she left Webster's
No; but she has left us. She has long murmured at her hard lot; working like a slave and not for herself. And she has gone, as they all go, to keep house for herself
That's a bad business
Almost as bad as for parents to live on their childrens' wages
And how is your good woman
As poorly as needs be. Harriet has never been home since Friday night. She owes you nothing
Not a halfpenny. She was as regular as a little bee and always paid every Monday morning. I am sorry she has left you, neighbour
The Lord's will be done. It's hard times for such as us
Twelve hours of daily labour at the rate of one penny each hour; and even this labour is mortgaged! How is this to end? Is it rather not ended
I cannot sell my loom
Then why am I here? Why am I, and six hundred thousand subjects of the Queen, honest, loyal, and industrious, why are we, after manfully struggling for years, and each year sinking lower in the scale, why are we driven from our innocent and happy homes, our country cottages that we loved, first to bide in close towns without comforts, and gradually to crouch into cellars, or find a squalid lair like this, without even the common necessaries of existence; first the ordinary conveniences of life, then raiment, and, at length, food, vanishing from us. "It is that the Capitalist has found a slave that has supplanted the labour and ingenuity of man. Once he was an artizan: at the best, he now only watches machines; and even that occupation slips from his grasp, to the woman and the child. The capitalist flourishes, he amasses immense wealth; we sink, lower and lower; lower than the beasts of burthen; for they are fed better than we are, cared for more. And it is just, for according to the present system they are more precious. And yet they tell us that the interests of Capital and of Labour are identical. 

"If a society that has been created by labour suddenly becomes independent of it, that society is bound to maintain the race whose only property is labour, from the proceeds of that property, which has not ceased to be productive. 

"When the class of the Nobility were supplanted in France, they did not amount in number to one-third of us Hand-Loom weavers; yet all Europe went to war to avenge their wrongs, every state subscribed to maintain them in their adversity, and when they were restored to their own country, their own land supplied them with an immense indemnity. Who cares for us? Yet we have lost our estates. Who raises a voice for us? Yet we are at least as innocent as the nobility of France. We sink among no sighs except our own. And if they give us sympathy -- what then? Sympathy is the solace of the Poor; but for the Rich, there is Compensation
Is that Harriet
No
it is not Harriet
Why does not Harriet come
She will come no more
I told you so last night: she can bear this place no longer; and I am not surprised
How are we to get food then
you ought not to have let her leave us. You do nothing, Warner. You get no wages yourself; and you have let the girl escape
I will escape myself if you say that again
I have been up these three hours finishing this piece which ought to have been taken home on Saturday night
But you have been paid for it beforehand. You get nothing for your work. A penny an hour! What sort of work is it, that brings a penny an hour
Work that you have often admired, Mary; and has before this gained a prize. But if you don't like the work
let it alone. There was enough yet owing on this piece to have allowed us to break our fast. However, no matter; we must starve sooner or later. Let us begin at once
No, no, Philip! work. Let us break our fast come what may
Twit me no more then
or I throw the shuttle for the last time
I will not taunt you
I was wrong; I am sorry; but I am very ill. It is not for myself I speak; I want not to eat; I have no appetite; my lips are so very parched. But the children, the children went supperless to bed, and they will wake soon
Mother, we ayn't asleep
No, we aynt asleep, mother
we heard all that you said to father
And baby
He sleeps still
I shiver very much
It's a cold day. Pray shut the window Warner. I see the drops upon the pane; it is raining. I wonder if the persons below would lend us one block of coal
We have borrowed too often
I wish there were no such thing as coal in the land
and then the engines would not be able to work; and we should have our rights again
Amen
Don't you think Warner
that you could sell that piece to some other person, and owe Barber for the money he advanced
No
I'll go straight
And let your children starve
when you could get five or six shillings at once. But so it always was with you! Why did not you go to the machines years ago like other men and so get used to them
I should have been supplanted by this time
by a girl or a woman! It would have been just as bad
Why there was your friend Walter Gerard; he was the same as you, and yet now he gets two pound a-week; at least I have often heard you say so
Walter Gerard is a man of great parts
and might have been a master himself by this time had he cared
And why did he not
He had no wife and children
he was not so blessed
Ah! my child
That wicked Harriet! Here Amelia, I have a morsel of crust here. I saved it yesterday for baby; moisten it in water, and tie it up in this piece of calico: he will suck it; it will keep him quiet; I can bear anything but his cry
I shall have finished my job by noon
and then, please God, we shall break our fast
It is yet two hours to noon
And Barber always keeps you so long! I cannot bear that Barber: I dare say he will not advance you money again as you did not bring the job home on Saturday night. If I were you, Philip, I would go and sell the piece unfinished at once to one of the cheap shops
I have gone straight all my life
And much good it has done you
My poor Amelia! How she shivers! I think the sun never touches this house. It is indeed a most wretched place
It will not annoy you long, Mary
I can pay no more rent; and I only wonder they have not been here already to take the week
And where are we to go
To a place which certainly the sun never touches
to a cellar
Oh! why was I ever born
And yet I was so happy once! And it is not our fault. I cannot make it out Warner, why you should not get two pounds a-week like Walter Gerard
Bah
You said he had no family
I thought he had a daughter
But she is no burthen to him. The sister of Mr Trafford is the Superior of the convent here, and she took Sybil when her mother died, and brought her up
Oh! then she is a nun
Not yet; but I dare say it will end in it
Well, I think I would even sooner starve
than my children should be nuns
Lives Philip Warner here
My name is Warner
I come from Walter Gerard
Your letter reached him only last night. The girl at whose house your daughter left it has quitted this week past Mr Trafford's factory
Pray enter
Your wife is ill
Very
Our daughter has behaved infamously to us. She has quitted us without saying by your leave or with your leave. And her wages were almost the only thing left to us; for Philip is not like Walter Gerard you see: he cannot earn two pounds a-week, though why he cannot I never could understand
Hush, hush, wife
I speak I apprehend to Gerard's daughter
Just so
Ah! this is good and kind; this is like old times, for Walter Gerard was my friend, when I was not exactly as I am now
He tells me so: he sent a messenger to me last night to visit you this morning. Your letter reached him only yesterday
Harriet was to give it to Caroline
That's the girl who has done all the mischief and inveigled her away. And she has left Trafford's works, has she? Then I will be bound she and Harriet are keeping house together
You suffer
give me your hand
'Tis hot
I feel very cold
Warner would have the window open, till the rain came in
And you, I fear, are wet
Very slightly. And you have no fire. Ah! I have brought some things for you, but not fuel
If he would only ask the person down stairs
for a block of coal; I tell him, neighbours could hardly refuse; but he never will do anything; he says he has asked too often
I will ask
But first, I have a companion without
who bears a basket for you. Come in, Harold
Oh! beautiful child
You are an angel from heaven
and you may well say beautiful. And only to think of that infamous girl, Harriet, to desert us all in this way
Now
arrange all this as I tell you, and I will go down stairs and speak to them below as you wish, Harold rest there
And is that Gerard's daughter
Only think what it is to gain two pounds a-week, and bring up your daughters in that way -- instead of such shameless husseys as our Harriet! But with such wages one can do anything. What have you there, Warner? Is that tea? Oh! I should like some tea. I do think tea would do me some good. I have quite a longing for it. Run down, Warner, and ask them to let us have a kettle of hot water. It is better than all the fire in the world. Amelia, my dear, do you see what they have sent us. Plenty to eat. Tell Maria all about it. You are good girls; you will never be like that infamous Harriet. When you earn wages you will give them to your poor mother and baby, won't you
Yes, mother
And father, too
And father, too
He has been a very good father to you all; and I never can understand why one who works so hard should earn so little; but I believe it is the fault of those machines. The police ought to put them down, and then every body would be comfortable
Well
I feel as if that dish of tea had saved my life. Amelia, have you had any tea? And Maria? You see what it is to be good girls; the Lord will never desert you. The day is fast coming when that Harriet will know what the want of a dish of tea is, with all her fine wages. And I am sure
what we all owe to you is not to be told. Your father well deserves his good fortune, with such a daughter
My father's fortunes are not much better than his neighbours
but his wants are few; and who should sympathise with the poor, but the poor? Alas! none else can. Besides, it is the Superior of our convent that has sent you this meal. What my father can do for you, I have told your husband. 'Tis little; but with the favour of heaven, it may avail. When the people support the people, the divine blessing will not be wanting
I am sure the divine blessing will never be wanting to you
they have come for the rent. Thank God, I am ready
We are strangers
but would not be such. I speak to Warner
My name
And I am your spiritual pastor, if to be the vicar of Mowbray entitles me to that description
Mr St Lys
The same. One of the most valued of my flock, and the most influential person in this district, has been speaking much of you to me this morning. You are working for him. He did not hear of you on Saturday night; he feared you were ill. Mr Barber spoke to me of your distress, as well as of your good character. I came to express to you my respect and my sympathy, and to offer you my assistance
You are most good, sir, and Mr Barber too, and indeed, an hour ago, we were in as great straits
And are now, sir
I have been in this bed a-week, and may never rise from it again; the children have no clothes; they are pawned; everything is pawned; this morning we had neither fuel, nor food. And we thought you had come for the rent which we cannot pay. If it had not been for a dish of tea which was charitably given me this morning by a person almost as poor as ourselves that is to say, they live by labour, though their wages are much higher, as high as two pounds a-week, though how that can be I never shall understand, when my husband is working twelve hours a day, and gaining only a penny an hour -- if it had not been for this I should have been a corpse; and yet he says we were in straits, merely because Walter Gerard's daughter, who I willingly grant is an angel from heaven for all the good she has done us, has stepped into our aid. But the poor supporting the poor, as she well says, what good can come from that
Sister
this is not the first time we have met under the roof of sorrow
It is but a squall, but a very severe one; I would recommend you to stay for a few minutes
I think
that this is not the first time also that we have met
I cannot recall our meeting before
And yet it was not many days past; though the sky was so very different, that it would almost make one believe it was in another land and another clime
It was at Marney Abbey
I was there; and I remember, when about to rejoin my companions, they were not alone
And you disappeared; very suddenly I thought: for I left the ruins almost at the same moment as your friends, yet I never saw any of you again
We took our course; a very rugged one; you perhaps pursued a more even way
Was it your first visit to Marney
My first and my last. There was no place I more desired to see; no place of which the vision made me so sad
The glory has departed
It is not that
I was prepared for decay, but not for such absolute desecration. The Abbey seems a quarry for materials to repair farm-houses; and the nave a cattle gate. What people they must be -- that family of sacrilege who hold these lands
Hem
They certainly do not appear to have much feeling for ecclesiastical art
And for little else, as we were told
There was a fire at the Abbey farm the day we were there, and from all that reached us, it would appear the people were as little tendered as the Abbey walls
They have some difficulty perhaps in employing their population in those parts
You know the country
Not at all: I was travelling in the neighbourhood, and made a diversion for the sake of seeing an abbey of which I had heard so much
Yes; it was the greatest of the Northern Houses. But they told me the people were most wretched round the Abbey; nor do I think there is any other cause for their misery, than the hard hearts of the family that have got the lands
You feel deeply for the people
And do not you? Your presence here assures me of it
I humbly follow one who would comfort the unhappy
The charity of Mr St Lys is known to all
And you -- you too are a ministering angel
There is no merit in my conduct, for there is no sacrifice. When I remember what this English people once was; the truest, the freest, and the bravest, the best-natured and the best- looking, the happiest and most religious race upon the surface of this globe; and think of them now, with all their crimes and all their slavish sufferings, their soured spirits and their stunted forms; their lives without enjoyment and their deaths without hope; I may well feel for them, even if I were not the daughter of their blood
Where have you been all the morning, Charles
Arabella had made the nicest little riding party for you and Lady Joan, and you were to be found nowhere. If you go on in this way, there is no use of having affectionate relations, or anything else
I have been walking about Mowbray. One should see a factory once in one's life
I don't see the necessity
I never saw one, and never intend. Though to be sure, when I hear the rents that Mowbray gets for his land in their neighbourhood, I must say I wish the worsted works had answered at Marney. And if it had not been for our poor dear father, they would
Our family have always been against manufactories, railroads- -everything
Railroads are very good things, with high compensation
and manufactories not so bad, with high rents; but, after all, these are enterprises for the canaille, and I hate them in my heart
But they employ the people, George
The people do not want employment; it is the greatest mistake in the world; all this employment is a stimulus to population. Never mind that; what I came in for, is to tell you that both Arabella and myself think you talk too much to Lady Maud
I like her the best
What has that to do with it my dear fellow? Business is business. Old Mowbray will make an elder son out of his elder daughter. The affair is settled; I know it from the best authority. Talking to Lady Maud is insanity. It is all the same for her as if Fitz-Warene had never died. And then that great event, which ought to be the foundation of your fortune, would be perfectly thrown away. Lady Maud, at the best, is nothing more than twenty thousand pounds and a fat living. Besides, she is engaged to that parson fellow, St Lys. "St Lys told me to-day that nothing would ever induce him to marry. He would practise celibacy, though he would not enjoin it
Enjoin fiddle-stick! How came you to be talking to such a sanctified imposter; and, I believe, with all his fine phrases, a complete radical. I tell you what, Charles, you must really make way with Lady Joan. The grandfather has come to-day, the old Duke. Quite a family party. It looks so well. Never was such a golden opportunity. And you must be sharp too. That little Jermyn, with his brown eyes and his white hands, has not come down here, in the month of August, with no sport of any kind, for nothing
I shall set Lady Firebrace at him
She is quite your friend, and a very sensible woman too, Charles, and an ally not to be despised. Lady Joan has a very high opinion of her. There's the bell. Well, I shall tell Arabella that you mean to put up the steam, and Lady Firebrace shall keep Jermyn off. And perhaps it is as well you did not seem too eager at first. Mowbray Castle, my dear fellow, in spite of its manufactories, is not to be despised. And with a little firmness, you could keep the people out of your park. Mowbray could do it, only he has no pluck. He is afraid people would say he was the son of a footman
that all was right there; that his grace only watched his opportunity; that he was heartily sick of the present men; indeed, would have gone over with Lord Stanley in 1835, had he not had a fit of the gout, which prevented him from coming up from the north; and though to be sure his son and brother did vote against the speaker, still that was a mistake; if a letter had been sent, which was not written, they would have voted the other way, and perhaps Sir Robert might have been in at the present moment
And who do you think Sir Robert would send to Ireland
I suppose the person he sent before
Lord Haddington will not go to Ireland again
mark me. And Lord De Grey does not like to go; and if he did, there are objections. And the Duke of Northumberland, he will not go. And who else is there? We must have a nobleman of the highest rank for Ireland; one who has not mixed himself up with Irish questions; who has always been in old days for emancipation; a conservative, not an orangeman. You understand. That is the person Sir Robert will send, and whom Sir Robert wants
He will have some difficulty in finding such a person
If, indeed, the blundering affair of 1834 had not occurred, and things had taken their legitimate course, and we had seen a man like Lord Stanley for instance at the head of affairs, or leading a great party, why then indeed your friends the conservatives,-- for every sensible man must be a conservative, in the right sense of the word,-- would have stood in a very different position; but now
Sir Robert will never consent to form a government again without Lord Stanley
Perhaps not
Do you know whose name I have heard mentioned in a certain quarter as the person Sir Robert would wish to see in Ireland
The Duke of Fitz-Aquitaine
Quite impossible
I am no party man; if I be anything, I am a supporter of the government. True it is I do not like the way they are going on, and I disapprove of all their measures; but we must stand by our friends, Lady Firebrace. To be sure, if the country were in danger, and the Queen personally appealed to one, and the conservative party were really a conservative party, and not an old crazy faction vamped up and whitewashed into decency -- one might pause and consider. But I am free to confess I must see things in a very different condition to what they are at present before I could be called upon to take that step. I must see men like Lord Stanley
I know what you are going to say, my dear Duke of Fitz- Aquitaine. I tell you again Lord Stanley is with us, heart and soul; and before long I feel persuaded I shall see your grace in the Castle of Dublin
I am too old; at least, I am afraid so
Early hours on Saturday afternoon make us all saunterers
There is my home
And you are well lodged! Your garden does you honour
I'll be honest enough to own I have no claim to the credit
I am but a lazy chiel
She is too old to be my wife, and too young to be my mother
but she is a good creature, and has looked after me many a long day. Come, dame
thou'lt bring us a cup of tea; 'tis a good evening beverage
and what I ever take at this time. And if you care to light a pipe, you will find a companion
I have renounced tobacco
tobacco is the tomb of love
Ah! I see you think me as great a scholar as I am a gardener: but with as little justice; these hooks are not mine
To whomsoever they belong
if we are to judge from his collection, he has a tolerably strong head
Ay, ay
the world will hear of him yet, though he was only a workman, and the son of a workman. He has not been at your schools and your colleges, but he can write his mother tongue, as Shakespeare and Cobbett wrote it; and you must do that, if you wish to influence the people
And might I ask his name
Stephen Morley, my friend
The person I saw with you at Marney Abbey
The same
And he lives with you
Why, we kept house together, if you could call it so. Stephen does not give much trouble in that way. He only drinks water and only eats herbs and fruits. He is the gardener
I don't know how we shall fare when he leaves me
And is he going to leave you
Why in a manner he has gone. He has taken a cottage about a quarter of a mile up the dale; and only left his books here, because he is going into -- shire in a day or two, on some business, that may be will take him a week or so. The books are safer here you see for the present, for Stephen lives alone, and is a good deal away, for he edits a paper at Mowbray, and that must be looked after. He is to be my gardener still. I promised him that. Well done, dame
I hope for the honour of the house a good brew. Now comrade sit down: it will do you good after your long stroll. You should eat your own trout if you would wait
By no means. You will miss your friend, I should think
We shall see a good deal of him, I doubt not, what with the garden and neighbourhood and so on; besides, in a manner, he is master of his own time. His work is not like ours; and though the pull on the brain is sometimes great, I have often wished I had a talent that way. It's a drear life to do the same thing every day at the same hour. But I never could express my ideas except with my tongue; and there I feel tolerably at home
It will be a pity to see this room without these books
So it will
I have got very few of my own. But my daughter will be able to fill the shelves in time, I warrant
Your daughter -- she is coming to live with you
Yes; that is the reason why Stephen quits us. He only remained here until Sybil could keep my house, and that happy day is at hand
That is a great compensation for the loss of your friend
And yet she talks of flitting
She hankers after the cloister. She has passed a still, sweet life in the convent here; the Superior is the sister of my employer and a very saint on earth; and Sybil knows nothing of the real world except its sufferings. No matter
I would not have her take the veil rashly, but if I lose her it may be for the best. For the married life of a woman of our class in the present condition of our country is a lease of woe
slaves, and the slaves of slaves? Even woman's spirit cannot stand against it; and it can bear against more than we can, master
Your daughter is not made for the common cares of life
We'll not talk of them
Sybil has an English heart, and that's not easily broken. And you, comrade, you are a traveller in these parts, eh
A kind of traveller; something in the way of your friend Morley -- connected with the press
Indeed! a reporter, eh? I thought you had something about you a little more knowing than we provincials
Yes; a reporter; they want information in London as to the real state of the country, and this time of the year, Parliament not sitting
Much
And what first took you to the press, if I may ask
and I was a younger son
Ah
that is as bad as being a woman
I had no patrimony
and I was obliged to work; I had no head I believe for the law; the church was not exactly in my way; and as for the army, how was I to advance without money or connexions! I had had some education, and so I thought I would turn it to account
Wisely done! you are one of the working classes, and will enlist I hope in the great struggle against the drones. The natural friends of the people are younger sons, though they are generally enlisted against us. The more fools they; to devote their energies to the maintenance of a system which is founded on selfishness and which leads to fraud; and of which they are the first victims. But every man thinks he will be an exception
And yet
a great family rooted in the land, has been deemed to be an element of political strength
I'll tell you what
In this county
Ay; in this county and every other one; I mean the PEOPLE
Ah
that family has existed for a long time
But it has taken to increase rapidly of late, my friend -- how may I call you
They call me, Franklin
A good English name of a good English class that has disappeared. Well, Mr Franklin, be sure of this, that the Population Returns of this country are very instructive reading
I can conceive so
I became a man when the bad times were beginning
'Tis an awful consideration
Awful
'tis the most solemn thing since the deluge. What kingdom can stand against it? Why go to your history -- you're a scholar,-- and see the fall of the great Roman empire -- what was that? Every now and then, there came two or three hundred thousand strangers out of the forests and crossed the mountains and rivers. They come to us every year and in greater numbers. What are your invasions of the barbarous nations, your Goths and Visigoths, your Lombards and Huns, to our Population Returns
The fact is we are tommied to death
You never spoke a truer word, Master Nixon
It's gospel, every word of it
And the point is
what are we for to do
Ay, surely
that's the marrow
Ay, ay
there it is
The question is
what is wages? I say, tayn't sugar, tayn't tea, tayn't bacon. I don't think it's candles; but of this I be sure, tayn't waistcoats
Comrades
you know what has happened; you know as how Juggins applied for his balance after his tommy- book was paid up, and that incarnate nigger Diggs has made him take two waistcoats. Now the question rises, what is a collier to do with waistcoats? Pawn 'em I s'pose to Diggs' son-in-law, next door to his father's shop, and sell the ticket for sixpence. Now there's the question; keep to the question; the question is waistcoats and tommy; first waistcoats and then tommy
I have been making a pound a-week these two months past
but as I'm a sinner saved, I have never seen the young queen's picture yet
And I have been obliged to pay the doctor for my poor wife in tommy
Doctor,' I said, says I, 'I blush to do it, but all I have got is tommy, and what shall it be, bacon or cheese?' 'Cheese at tenpence a pound,' says he, 'which I buy for my servants at sixpence. Never mind,' says he, for he is a thorough Christian, 'I'll take the tommy as I find it
Juggins has got his rent to pay and is afeard of the bums
and he has got two waistcoats
Besides
Diggs' tommy is only open once aweek, and if you're not there in time, you go over for another seven days. And it's such a distance, and he keeps a body there such a time -- it's always a day's work for my poor woman; she can't do nothing after it, what with the waiting and the standing and the cussing of Master Joseph Diggs,-- for he do swear at the women, when they rush in for the first turn, most fearful
They do say he's a shocking little dog
Master Joseph is wery wiolent, but there is no one like old Diggs for grabbing a bit of one's wages. He do so love it! And then he says you never need be at no loss for nothing; you can find everything under my roof. I should like to know who is to mend our shoes. Has Gaffer Diggs a cobbler's stall
Or sell us a penn-orth of potatoes
No; and so to get them one is obliged to go and sell some tommy, and much one gets for it. Bacon at ninepence a-pound at Diggs', which you may get at a huckster's for sixpence. and therefore the huckster can't be expected to give you more than fourpence halfpenny, by which token the tommy in our field just cuts our wages atween the navel
And that's as true as if you heard it in church, Master Waghorn
This Diggs seems to be an oppressor of the people
I should think he wor; as bloody-a-hearted butty as ever jingled
But what business has a butty to keep a shop
The law touches him
I should like to know who would touch the law
not I for one. Them tommy shops is very delicate things; they won't stand no handling, I can tell you that
But he cannot force you to take goods
he must pay you in current coin of the realm, if you demand it
They only pay us once in five weeks
and how is a man to live meanwhile. And suppose we were to make shift for a month or five weeks, and have all our money coming, and have no tommy out of the shop, what would the butty say to me? He would say, 'do you want e'er a note this time' and if I was to say 'no,' then he would say, 'you've no call to go down to work any more here.' And that's what I call forsation
Ay, ay
ask for the young queen's picture, and you would soon have to put your shirt on, and go up the shaft
It's them long reckonings that force us to the tommy shops
going to play
There's wus things as tommy
They are deeds of darkness surely; for many's the morn we work for nothing, by one excuse or another, and many's the good stint that they undermeasure. And many's the cup of their ale that you must drink before they will give you any work. If the queen would do something for us poor men, it would be a blessed job
and there's no redress for poor men
But why do not you state your grievances to the landlords and lessees
I take it you be a stranger in these parts, sir
I take it you be a stranger in these parts, sir, or else you would know that it's as easy for a miner to speak to a mainmaster, as it is for me to pick coal with this here clay. Sir, there's a gulf atween 'em. I went into the pit when I was five year old, and I count forty year in the service come Martinmas, and a very good age, sir, for a man what does his work, and I knows what I'm speaking about. In forty year, sir, a man sees a pretty deal, 'specially when he don't move out of the same spot and keeps his 'tention. I've been at play, sir, several times in forty year, and have seen as great stick-outs as ever happened in this country. I've seen the people at play for weeks together, and so clammed that I never tasted nothing but a potatoe and a little salt for more than a fortnight. Talk of tommy, that was hard fare, but we were holding out for our rights, and that's sauce for any gander. And I'll tell you what, sir, that I never knew the people play yet, but if a word had passed atween them and the main-masters aforehand, it might not have been settled; but you can't get at them any way. Atween the poor man and the gentleman there never was no connection, and that's the wital mischief of this country. "It's a very true word, Master Nixon, and by this token that when we went to play in -- 28, and the masters said they would meet us; what did they do but walk about the ground and speak to the butties. The butties has their ear
We never want no soldiers here if the masters would speak with the men; but the sight of a pitman is pison to a gentleman, and if we go up to speak with 'em, they always run away
It's the butties
they're wusser nor tommy
The people will never have their rights
until they learn their power. Suppose instead of sticking out and playing, fifty of your families were to live under one roof. You would live better than you live now; you would feed more fully, and he lodged and clothed more comfortably, and you might save half the amount of your wages; you would become capitalists; you might yourselves hire your mines and pits from the owners, and pay them a better rent than they now obtain, and yet yourselves gain more and work less
Sir
you speak like a book
It is the principle of association
the want of the age
Sir
this here age wants a great deal, but what it principally wants is to have its wages paid in the current coin of the realm
Wodgate
The gentleman means Hell-house Yard
I'm at home
but 'tis the first time I ever heard Hell-house Yard called Wodgate
It's called so in joggraphy
But you hay'nt going to Hell-house Yard this time of night
I'd as soon think of going down the pit with the windlass turned by lushy Bob
Tayn't a journey for Christians
They're a very queer lot even in sunshine
And how far is it
I walked there once in three hours
but that was to the wake. If you want to see divils carnal, there's your time of day. They're no less than heathens, I be sure. I'd be sorry to see even our butty among them, for he is a sort of a Christian when he has taken a glass of ale
all the wines at Mowbray were good
What a cursed bore it is that Grouse is not here
Well, I cannot say, George, that I particularly miss the presence of Captain Grouse
Grouse is a capital fellow; one is never dull when Grouse is here
Well, for my part
I do not much admire that amusement which is dependent on the efforts of hangers-on
Grouse is no more a hanger-on than any one else
Perhaps not
I am no judge of such sort of people
I should like to know what you are a judge of; certainly not of making yourself agreeable to young ladies. Arabella cannot he particularly charmed with the result of your visit to Mowbray, as far as Lady Joan is concerned, Arabella's most intimate friend by the bye. If for no other reason, you ought to have paid her more attention
I cannot pay attention unless I am attracted
I have not the ever-ready talent of your friend, Captain Grouse
I do not know what you mean by my friend Captain Grouse. Captain Grouse is no more my friend than your friend. One must have people about the house to do a thousand things which one cannot do oneself, and which one cannot trust to servants, and Grouse does all this capitally
Exactly; he is just what I said, a capital hanger-on if you like, but still a hanger-on
Well, and what then! Suppose he is a hanger-on; may I not have hangers-on as well as any other man
Of course you may; but I am not bound to regret their absence
Who said you were? But I will regret their absence, if I choose. And I regret the absence of Grouse, regret it very much; and if he did happen to be inextricably engaged in this unfortunate match, I say, and you may contradict me if you please, that he ought to have taken care that Slimsey dined here, to tell me all that had happened
I am very glad he omitted to do so
I prefer Grouse to Slimsey
I dare say you do
you would like, I have no doubt, to see a fine gentleman-saint, like your friend Mr St Lys, at Marney, preaching in cottages, filling the people with discontent, lecturing me about low wages, soliciting plots of grounds for new churches, and inveigling Arabella into subscriptions to painted windows
I certainly should like to see a man like Aubrey St Lys at Marney
And if he were here, I would soon see who should be master
I would not succumb like Mowbray. One might as well have a jesuit in the house at once
I dare say St Lys would care very little about entering your house
I know it was with great reluctance that he ever came to Mowbray Castle
I dare say; very great reluctance indeed. And very reluctant he was, I make no doubt, to sit next to Lady Maud. I wonder he does not fly higher, and preach to Lady Joan; but she is too sensible a woman for such fanatical tricks
St Lys thinks it his duty to enter all societies. That is the reason why he goes to Mowbray Castle, as well as to the squalid courts and cellars of the town. He takes care that those who are clad in purple and fine linen shall know the state of their neighbours. They cannot at least plead ignorance for the nonfulfilment of their duty. Before St Lys's time, the family at Mowbray Castle might as well have not existed, as far as benefiting their miserable vicinage. It would be well perhaps for other districts not less wretched, and for other families as high and favoured as the Mowbrays, if there were a Mr St Lys on the spot instead of a Mr Slimsey
I suppose that is meant for a cut
but I wish the people were as well off in every part of the country as they are on my estate. They get here their eight shillings a week, always at least seven, and every hand is at this moment in employ, except a parcel of scoundrels who prefer woodstealing and poaching, and who would prefer wood-stealing and poaching if you gave them double the wages. The rate of wages is nothing: certainty is the thing; and every man at Marney may he sure of his seven shillings a-week for at least nine months in the year; and for the other three, they can go to the House, and a very proper place for them; it is heated with hot air, and has every comfort. Even Marney Abbey is not heated with hot air. I have often thought of it; it makes me mad sometimes to think of those lazy, pampered menials passing their lives with their backs to a great roaring fire; but I am afraid of the flues
I wonder, talking of fires, that you are not more afraid of burning ricks
It's an infernal lie
What is
That there is any incendiarism in this neighbourhood
Why, there was a fire the day after I came
That had nothing to do with wages; it was an accident. I examined into it myself; so did Grouse, so did Slimsey; I sent them about everywhere. I told them I was sure the fire was purely accidental, and to go and see about it; and they came back and agreed that it was purely accidental
I dare say they did
but no one has discovered the accident
For my part, I believe it was spontaneous combustion
That is a satisfactory solution
but for my part, the fire being a fact, and it being painfully notorious that the people of Marney
Well, sir, the people of Marney
Are without question the most miserable population in the county
Did Mr St Lys tell you that
No, not Mr Lys, but one better acquainted with the neighbourhood
I'll know your informant's name
My informant was a woman
Lady Maud, I suppose; second-hand from Mr St Lys
Mv informant was a woman, and one of the people
Some poacher's drab! I don't care what women say, high or low, they always exaggerate
The misery of a family who live upon seven or even eight shillings a-week can scarcely be exaggerated
What should you know about it? Did you ever live on seven or eight shillings a-week? What can you know about the people who pass your time at London clubs or in fine country houses? I suppose you want the people to live as they do at a house dinner at Boodle's. I say that a family can live very well on seven shillings a-week, and on eight shillings very well indeed. The poor are very well off,at least the agricultural poor, very well off indeed. Their incomes are certain, that is a great point, and they have no cares, no anxieties; they always have a resource, they always have the House. People without cares do not require as much food as those whose life entails anxieties. See how long they live! Compare the rate of mortality among them with that of the manufacturing districts. Incendiarism indeed! If there had been a proper rural police, such a thing as incendiarism would never have been heard of
This argument made me forget the principal reason, George, why I am glad that we are alone together to-day. I am sorry to bore you, but I am bored myself deucedly. I find a letter from my agent. These election accounts must be settled
Why, I thought they were settled
How do you mean
I thought my mother had given you a thousand pounds
No doubt of that, but that was long ago disposed of
In my opinion quite enough for a seat in these times. Instead of paying to get into Parliament, a man ought to be paid for entering it
There may be a good deal in what you say
but it is too late to take that view of the business. The expense has been incurred and must be met
I don't see that
we have paid one thousand pounds and there is a balance unsettled. When was there ever a contest without a balance being unsettled? I remember hearing my father often say that when he stood for this county, our grandfather paid more than a hundred thousand pounds, and yet I know to this day there are accounts unsettled. Regularly every year I receive anonymous letters threatening me with fearful punishment if I don't pay one hundred and fifty pounds for a breakfast at the Jolly Tinkers
You jest: the matter indeed requires a serious vein. I wish these accounts to be settled at once
And I should like to know where the funds are to come from! I have none. The quantity of barns I am building now is something tremendous! Then this rage for draining; it would dry up any purse. What think you of two million tiles this year? And rents,-- to keep up which we are making these awful sacrifices -- they are merely nominal, or soon will be. They never will be satisfied till they have touched the land. That is clear to me. I am prepared for a reduction of five-and- twenty per cent; if the corn laws are touched, it can't be less than that. My mother ought to take it into consideration and reduce her jointure accordingly. But I dare say she will not; people are so selfish; particularly as she has given you this thousand pounds, which in fact after all comes out of my pocket
All this you have said to me before. What does it mean? I fought this battle at the instigation of the family, from no feeling of my own. You are the head of the family and you were consulted on the step. Unless I had concluded that it was with your sanction, I certainly should not have made my appearance on the hustings
I am very glad you did though
Parliament is a great point for our class: in these days especially, more even than in the old time. I was truly rejoiced at your success, and it mortified the whigs about us most confoundedly. Some people thought there was only one family in the world to have their Richmond or their Malton. Getting you in for the old borough was really a coup
Well now, to retain our interest
quick payment of our expenses is the most efficient way, believe me
You have got six years, perhaps seven
and long before that I hope to find you the husband of Lady Joan Fitz-Warene
I do not wish to connect the two contingencies
They are inseparable
What do you mean
I mean that I think this pedantic acquittance of an electioneering account is in the highest degree ridiculous, and that I cannot interfere in it. The legal expenses are you say paid; and if they were not, I should feel myself bound, as the head of the family, to defray them, but I can go no further. I cannot bring myself to sanction an expenditure for certainly very unnecessary, perhaps, and I much fear it, for illegal and very immoral purposes
That really is your determination
After the most mature reflection, prompted by a sincere solicitude for your benefit
Well, George, I have often suspected it, but now I feel quite persuaded, that you are really the greatest humbug that ever existed
Abuse is not argument, Mr Egremont
You are beneath abuse, as you are beneath every sentiment but one, which I most entirely feel
You may thank your own obstinacy and conceit
I took you to Mowbray Castle, and the cards were in your own hands if you chose to play them
You have interfered with me once before on such a subject. Lord Marney
You had better not say that again
Why not
Who and what are you to dare to address me thus
I am your elder brother, sir, whose relationship to you is your only claim to the consideration of society
A curse on the society that has fashioned such claims
claims founded in selfishness, cruelty, and fraud, and leading to demoralization, misery, and crime
Claims which I will make you respect, at least in this house, sir
Touch me at your peril
or I will forget you are my mother's son, and cleave you to the ground. You have been the blight of my life; you stole from me my bride, and now you would rob me of my honour
Liar and villain
For heaven's sake
What is all this? George, Charles, dearest George
Let me go, Arabella
Let him come on
I thought I saw the wicket of the yard gates open
So did I
but it was shut again immediately
It was only Master Joseph
He likes to see us getting wet through
If they would only let us into the yard and get under one of the workshop sheds, as they do at Simmon's
You may well say Simmon's, Mrs Page; I only wish my master served in his field
I have been here since half-past four, Mrs Grigsby, with this chilt at my breast all the time. It's three miles for me here, and the same back, and unless I get the first turn, how are my poor boys to find their dinner ready when they come out of the pit
A very true word, Mrs Page; and by this token, that last Thursday I was here by half-past eleven, certainly afore noon, having only called at my mother-in-law's in the way, and it was eight o'clock before I got home. Ah! it's cruel work, is the tommy shop
How d'ye do neighbour Prance
And how's your good man? They was saying at Belfy's he had changed his service. I hear there's a new butty in Mr Parker's field; but the old doggy kept on; so I always thought, he was always a favourite, and they do say measured the stints very fair. And what do you hear bacon is in town? They do tell me only sixpence and real home-cured. I wonder Diggs has the face to be selling still at nine-pence, and so very green! I think I see Dame Toddles; how wonderful she do wear! What are you doing here, little dear; very young to fetch tommy; keeping place for mother, eh! that's a good girl; she'd do well to be here soon, for I think the strike's on eight. Diggs is sticking it on yellow soap very terrible. What do you think -- Ah! the doors are going to open. No -- a false alarm
How fare you neighbour
Here's an awful crowd, surely. The women will be fighting and tearing to get in, I guess. I be much afeard
Well, 'first come, first served,' all the world over
And you must put a good heart on the business and tie your bonnet. I dare guess there are not much less than two hundred here. It's grand tommy day you know. And for my part I don't care so much for a good squeedge; one sees so many faces one knows
The cheese here at sixpence is pretty tidy
but you may get as good in town for fourpence
What I complain is the weights
I weighed my pound of butter bought last tommy day, and it was two penny pieces too light. Indeed! I have been, in my time, to all the shops about here, for the lads or their father, but never knew tommy so bad as this. I have two children at home ill from their flour; I have been very poorly myself; one is used to a little white clay, but when they lay it on thick, it's very grave
Are your girls in the pit
No; we strive to keep them out, and my man has gone scores of days on bread and water for that purpose; and if we were not forced to take so much tommy, one might manage -- but tommy will beat anything; Health first, and honesty afterwards, that's my say
Well, for my part
meat's my grievance: all the best bits go to the butties, and the pieces with bone in are chopped off for the colliers' wives
Dame, when will the door open
And what do you want, chilt
Liza Gray
you know the person I'm looking for
Well, Mrs Mullins, and how do you do
How do you do, indeed! How are people to do in these bad times
They is indeed hard Mrs Mullins. If you could see my tommy book! How I wish I knew figures! Made up as of last Thursday night by that little divil, Master Joe Diggs. He has stuck it in here and stuck it in there, till it makes one all of a- maze. I'm sure I never had the things; and my man is out of all patience, and says I can no more keep house than a natural born
My man is a-wanting to see your man
and you know what about
And very natural, too
but how are we to pay the money we owe him, with such a tommy-book as this, good neighbour Mullins
We're as poor as our neighbours Mrs Gray; and if we are not paid, we must borrow. It's a scarlet shame to go to the spout because money lent to a friend is not to be found. You had it in your need, Liza Gray, and we want it in our need; and have it I will, Liza Gray
Hush, hush
don't wake the little-un, for she is very fretful
I will have the five shillings, or I will have as good
Hush, hush, neighbour; now, I'll tell you -- you shall have it; but yet a little time. This is great tommy-day, and settles our reckoning for five weeks; but my man may have a draw after to-morrow, and he shall draw five shillings, and give you half
And the other half
Ah! the other half
Well, then -- we shall have a death in our family soon -- this poor babe can't struggle on much longer; it belongs to two burial clubs- -that will be three pounds from each, and after the drink and the funeral, there will be enough to pay all our debts and put us all square
I was first, Master Joseph
No; I was
I was here
as the clock struck four, and seated myself on the steps, because I must be home early; my husband is hurt in the knee
If you were first, you shall be helped last
to reward you for your pains
O! Lord have mercy on me
and I got up in the middle of the night for this
More fool you! And what you came for I am sure I don't know
for you have a pretty long figure against you, I can tell you that
I declare most solemnly
Don't make a brawling here
or I'll jump over this here counter and knock you down, like nothing. What did you say, woman? are you deaf? what did you say? how much best tea do you want
I don't want any, sir
Oh! you little monster
you have put out my babby's eye
Whose baby's hurt
Mine, sir
Mary Church
Oh! Mary Church, is it
Where's your book, Susan Travers! Left at home! Then you may go and fetch it. No books, no tommy. You are Jones's wife, are you? Ticket for three and sixpence out of eighteen shillings wages. Is this the only ticket you have brought? There's your money; and you may tell your husband he need not take his coat off again to go down our shaft. He must think us cussed fools! Tell him I hope he has got plenty of money to travel into Wales, for he won't have no work in England again, or my name ayn't Diggs. Who's pushing there? I'll be among you; I'll close the shop. If I do get hold of some of you cussed women, you shan't forget it. If anybody will tell me who is pushing there, they shall have their bacon for seven-pence. Will nobody have bacon for seven-pence? Leagued together, eh! Then everybody shall have their bacon for ten- pence. Two can play at that. Push again, and I'll be among you
a boy killed
that he was quite smothered
I'll stand by the body
though I lose my turn
I am the editor of the Mowbray Phalanx; I will not speak to you before these people; but I tell you fairly you and your son have been represented to me as oppressors of the people. Will it be my lot to report this death and comment on it? I trust not. There is yet time and hope
What is to be done, sir
a fellow-creature in this condition
Dont talk but act
There is no time to be lost. The boy must be taken up stairs and put to bed; a warm bed, in one of your best rooms, with every comfort. I am pressed for business, but I will wait and watch over him till the crisis is passed. Come, let you and I take him in our arms, and carry him up stairs through your private door. Every minute is precious
Do you happen to know friend a person here or hereabouts by name Hatton
Hatton
I should think I did
Well, that's fortunate; you can tell me something about him
Do you see this here
he did that
An accident
Very like. An accident that often happened. I should like to have a crown for every time he has cut my head open. He cut it open once with a key and twice with a lock; he knocked the corner of a lock into my head twice, once with a bolt and once with a shut; you know what that is; the thing what runs into the staple. He hit me on the head with a hammer once. That was a blow! I fell away that time. When I came to, master had stopped the blood with some fur off his hat. I had to go on with my work immediately; master said I should do my stint if I worked till twelve o'clock at night. Many's the ash stick he has broken on my body; sometimes the weals remained on me for a-week; he cut my eyelid open once with a nutstick; cut a regular hole in it, and it bled all over the files I was working at. He has pulled my ears sometimes that I thought they must come off in his hand. But all this was a mere nothin to this here cut; that was serous; and if I hadn't got thro' that they do say there must have been a crowner's quest; though I think that gammon, tor old Tugsford did for one of his prentices, and the body was never found. And now you ask me if I know Hatton? I should think I did
But is there no redress for such iniquitous oppression
Is there no magistrate to apply to
No no
we don't have no magistrates at Wodgate. We've got a constable, and there was a prentice who coz his master laid it on, only with a seat rod, went over to Ramborough and got a warrant. He fetched the summons himself and giv it to the constable, but he never served it. That's why they has a constable here
I am sorry
that I have affairs with such a wretch as this Hatton
You'll find him a wery hearty sort of man
What! this monster
Lord bless you, it's his way, that's all, we be a queer set here; but he has his pints. Give him a lock to make, and you won't have your box picked; he's wery lib'ral too in the wittals. Never had horse-flesh the whole time I was with him; they has nothin' else at Tugsford's; never had no sick cow except when meat was very dear. He always put his face agin still-born calves; he used to say he liked his boys to have meat what was born alive and killed alive. By which token there never was any sheep what had bust in the head sold in our court. And then sometimes he would give us a treat of fish, when it had been four or five days in town and not sold. No, give the devil his due, say I. There never was no want for anything at meals with the Bishop, except time to eat them in
And why do you call him the Bishop
And what is your name, my good fellow
They call me Tummas, but I ayn't got no second name; but now I am married I mean to take my wife's, for she has been baptised, and so has got two
Yes sir
I be a reg'lar born Christian and my mother afore me, and that's what few gals in the Yard can say. Thomas will take to it himself when work is slack; and he believes now in our Lord and Saviour Pontius Pilate who was crucified to save our sins; and in Moses, Goliath, and the rest of the Apostles
Ah! me
and could not they spare one Missionary from Tahiti for their fellow countrymen at Wodgate
So you see, my father
even then all was not lost. The stout earl retired beyond the Trent, and years and reigns elapsed before this part of the island accepted their laws and customs
I see
We were not talking of thee, good sir, but of thy great namesake; but ne'er mind, a live dog they say is worth a dead king
Ah! why have we not such a man now
to protect the people! Were I a prince I know no career that I should deem so great
But Stephen says no
he says that these great men have never made use of us but as tools; and that the people never can have their rights until they produce competent champions from their own order
But then Stephen does not want to recall the past
he wishes to create the future
The past is a dream
And what is the future
Alack! I know not; but I often wish the battle of Hastings were to be fought over again and I was going to have a hand in it
Ah! my father
there is ever your fatal specific of physical force. Even Stephen is against physical force, with all his odd fancies
All very true
but all the same when I was coming home a few days ago, and stopped awhile on the bridge and chanced to see myself in the stream, I could not help fancying that my Maker had fashioned these limbs rather to hold a lance or draw a bow, than to supervise a shuttle or a spindle
Yet with the shuttle and the spindle we may redeem our race
if we could only form the minds that move those peaceful weapons. Oh! my father, I will believe that moral power is irresistible, or where are we to look for hope
Ah
what can we do; they have got the land, and the land governs the people. The Norman knew that, Sybil, as you just read. If indeed we had our rights, one might do something; but I don't know; I dare say if I had our land again, I should be as bad as the rest
Oh! no, my father
never, never! Your thoughts would be as princely as your lot. What a leader of the people you would make
Hush
some one knocks
You'll excuse me
So we are neighbours
Here is my friend Mr Franklin that I was speaking of, Sybil, who is going to be our neighbour; down Harold, down
I dare say
you have seen our poor friend the weaver since we met there
The day I quitted Mowbray
They are not without friends
Ah! you have met my daughter before
On a mission of grace
And I suppose you found the town not very pleasant, Mr Franklin
No; I could not stand it, the nights were so close. Besides I have a great accumulation of notes, and I fancied I could reduce them into a report more efficiently in comparative seclusion. So I have got a room near here, with a little garden, not so pretty as yours; but still a garden is something; and if I want any additional information, why, after all, Mowbray is only a walk
You say well and have done wisely. Besides you have such late hours in London, and hard work. Some country air will do you all the good in the world. That gallery must be tiresome. Do you use shorthand
A sort of shorthand of my own
I trust a good deal to my memory
Ah! you are young. My daughter also has a wonderful memory. For my own part, there are many things which I am not sorry to forget
You see I took you at your word, neighbour
When one has been at work the whole day one feels a little lonely towards night
Very true; and I dare say you find desk work sometimes very dull; I never could make anything of it myself. I can manage a book well enough, if it be well written, and on points I care for; but I would sooner listen than read any time
Indeed I should be right glad to see the minstrel and the storyteller going their rounds again. It would be easy after a day's work, when one has not, as I have now, a good child to read to me
This volume
Ah! it's a fine book
though on a sad subject
The History of the Conquest of England by the Normans
Ursula Trafford to Sybil Gerard
You know it
Only by fame
Perhaps the subject may not interest you so much as it does us
It must interest all and all alike
for we are divided between the conquerors and the conquered
But do not you think
that such a distinction has long ceased to exist
In what degree
Many circumstances of oppression have doubtless gradually disappeared: but that has arisen from the change of manners, not from any political recognition of their injustice. The same course of time which has removed many enormities, more shocking however to our modern feelings than to those who devised and endured them, has simultaneously removed many alleviating circumstances. If the mere baron's grasp be not so ruthless, the champion we found in the church is no longer so ready. The spirit of Conquest has adapted itself to the changing circumstances of ages, and however its results vary in form, in degree they are much the same
But how do they show themselves
In many circumstances, which concern many classes; but I speak of those which touch my own order; and therefore I say at once -- in the degradation of the people
But are the people so degraded
There is more serfdom in England now than at any time since the Conquest. I speak of what passes under my daily eyes when I say. that those who labour can as little choose or change their masters now, as when they were born thralls. There are great bodies of the working classes of this country nearer the condition of brutes, than they have been at any time since the Conquest. Indeed I see nothing to distinguish them from brutes, except that their morals are inferior. Incest and infanticide are as common among them as among the lower animals. The domestic principle waxes weaker and weaker every year in England: nor can we wonder at it, when there is no comfort to cheer and no sentiment to hallow the Home
I was reading a work the other day
that statistically proved that the general condition of the people was much better at this moment than it had been at any known period of history
Ah! yes, I know that style of speculation
your gentleman who reminds you that a working man now has a pair of cotton stockings, and that Harry the Eighth himself was not as well off. At any rate, the condition of classes must be judged of by the age, and by their relation with each other. One need not dwell on that. I deny the premises. I deny that the condition of the main body is better now than at any other period of our history; that it is as good as it has been at several. I say, for instance, the people were better clothed, better lodged, and better fed just before the war of the Roses than they are at this moment. We know how an English peasant lived in those times: he eat flesh every day, he never drank water, was well housed, and clothed in stout woollens. Nor are the Chronicles necessary to tell us this. The acts of Parliament from the Plantagenets to the Tudors teach us alike the price of provisions and the rate of wages; and we see in a moment that the wages of those days brought as much sustenance and comfort as a reasonable man could desire
I know how deeply you feel upon this subject
Indeed it is the only subject that ever engages my thought
except one
And that one
Is to see the people once more kneel before our blessed Lady
Look at the average term of life
The average term of life in this district among the working classes is seventeen. What think you of that? Of the infants born in Mowbray, more than a moiety die before the age of five
And yet
in old days they had terrible pestilences
But they touched all alike
We have more pestilence now in England than we ever had, but it only reaches the poor. You never hear of it. Why Typhus alone takes every year from the dwellings of the artisan and peasant a population equal to that of the whole county of Westmoreland. This goes on every year, but the representatives of the conquerors are not touched: it is the descendants of the conquered alone who are the victims
It sometimes seems to me
that nothing short of the descent of angels can save the people of this kingdom
I sometimes think I hear a little bird
who sings that the long frost may yet break up. I have a friend, him of whom I was speaking to you the other day, who has his remedies
But Stephen Morley does not believe in angels
and I have no faith in his plan
He believes that God will help those who help themselves
And I believe
that those only can help themselves whom God helps
Sybil
Yes
I beg your pardon
I was reading your name. I thought I was reading it to myself. Sybil Gerard! What a beautiful name is Sybil
My mother's name
and my grandame's name, and a name I believe that has been about our hearth as long as our race; and that's a very long time indeed
for we were tall men in King John's reign, as I have heard say
Yours is indeed an old family
Ay, we have some English blood in our veins, though peasants and the sons of peasants. But there was one of us who drew a bow at Azincourt; and I have heard greater things, but I believe they are old wives' tales
At least we have nothing left
but our old faith; and that we have clung to through good report and evil report
And now
I rise with the lark, good neighbour Franklin; but before you go, Sybil will sing to us a requiem that I love: it stills the spirit before we sink into the slumber which may this night be death, and which one day must be
Ah! this is delicious
And his daughter -- ay, his daughter! There is something almost sublime about that young girl, yet strangely sweet withal; a tone so lofty combined with such simplicity is very rare. For there is no affectation of enthusiasm about her; nothing exaggerated, nothing rhapsodical. Her dark eyes and lustrous face, and the solemn sweetness of her thrilling voice -- they haunt me; they have haunted me from the first moment I encountered her like a spirit amid the ruins of our abbey. And I am one of 'the family of sacrilege.' If she knew that! And I am one of the conquering class she denounces. If also she knew that! Ah! there is much to know! Above all -- the future. Away! the tree of knowledge is the tree of death. I will have no thought that is not as bright and lovely as this morn
I salute thee, holy sister
Oh! is not this a merry morn
I feel it as you. And whither do you go
I go to the convent; I pay my first visit to our Superior since I left them
Not very long ago
It seems so
What a pity it is that your father's way each morning lies up the valley
he would be your companion to Mowbray
Ah! but I am so happy that he has not to work in a town
He is not made to be cooped up in a hot factory in a smoky street. At least he labours among the woods and waters. And the Traffords are such good people! So kind to him and to all
You love your father very much
And is that strange
I think not
I am inclined to love him myself
Ah! you win my heart
when you praise him. I think that is the real reason why I like Stephen; for otherwise he is always saying something with which I cannot agree, which I disapprove; and yet he is so good to my father
You speak of Mr Morley
Oh! we don't call him 'Mr
I mean Stephen Morley
whom I met in Marney Abbey. He is very clever, is he not
He is a great writer and a great student; and what he is he has made himself. I hear too that you follow the same pursuit
But I am not a great writer or a great student
Whatever you be, I trust
that you will never employ the talents that God has given you against the People
I have come here to learn something of their condition
That is not to be done in a great city like London. We all of us live too much in a circle. You will assist me, I am sure
your spirit will animate me. You told me last night that there was no other subject, except one, which ever occupied your thoughts
Yes
I have lived under two roofs, only two roofs; and each has given me a great idea; the Convent and the Cottage. One has taught me the degradation of my faith, the other of my race. You should not wonder, therefore, that my heart is concentrated on the Church and the People
But there are other ideas
that might equally be entitled to your thought
I feel these are enough
too great, as it is, for my brain
Now boys
steady, there; steady. There's a file what don't sing; can't deceive my ear; I know all their voices. Don't let me find that un out, or I won't walk into him, won't I? Ayn't you lucky boys, to have reg'lar work like this, and the best of prog! It worn't my lot, I can tell you that. Give me that shut, you there, Scrubbynose, can't you move? Look sharp, or I won't move you, won't I? Steady, steady! All right! That's music. Where will you hear music like twenty files all working at once! You ought to be happy boys, oughtn't you? Won't there be a treat of fish after this, that's all! Hulloa, there, you red-haired varmint, what are you looking after? Three boys looking about them; what's all this? Won't I be among you
Please, bishop
it worn't my fault. Here's a man what wants you
Who wants me
Well, what's your will? Locks or nails
Neither
I wish to see a man named Hatton
Well, you see a man named Hatton
and now what do want of him
I should like to say a word to you alone
Hem! I should like to know who is to finish this lock, and to look after my boys! If it's an order, let us have it at once
It is not an order
Then I don't want to hear nothing about it
It's about family matters
Ah
what, do you come from him
It may be
Look after the boys
for I have business
Won't I
Well, what have you brought me
In the first place
I would speak to you of your brother
I concluded that
when you spoke of family matters bringing you here; he is the only relation I have in this world, and therefore it must be of him
It is of him
Has he sent anything
Hem
How late is it since you heard from him
Why, I suppose you know
I heard as usual
From his usual place
I wish you would tell me where that is
Why, he writes to you
Blank letters; never had a line except once, and that is more than twelve year ago. He sends me a twenty-pound note every Christmas; and that is all I know about him
Then he is rich, and well to do in the world? said Morley
Why, don't you know
I thought you came from him
I came about him. I wished to know whether he were alive, and that you have been able to inform me: and where he was; and that you have not been able to inform me
Why, you're a regular muff
the queen, the queen
My subjects
their queen
And here
I must bid you good bye; and this little boy
this little boy shall be your guide. It is not a hundred yards. Now, Pierce, you must take Mr Franklin to the factory, and ask for Mr Gerard
We expect them to lunch here afterwards
Oh! do stay with me, Sybil, to receive them
I think the works were very wonderful
and indeed, Mrs Trafford, everything here is quite charming; but what I have most admired at your place is a young girl we met -- the most beautiful I think I ever saw
With the most beautiful dog
Oh! that must have been Sybil
And who is Sybil
That is one of our family names. We all thought her quite beautiful
She is a child of the house
or rather was, for I am sorry to say she has long quitted us
Is she a nun
for her vestments had a conventual air
She has just left your convent at Mowbray
and rather against her will. She clings to the dress she was accustomed to there
And now she resides with you
No; I should be very happy if she did. I might almost say she was brought up under this roof. She lives now with her father
And who is so fortunate as to be her father
Her father is the inspector of my works; the person who accompanied us over them this morning
What! that handsome man I so much admired
so very aristocratic-looking. Papa
the inspector of Mr Trafford's works we are speaking of, that aristocratic-looking person that I observed to you, he is the father of the beautiful girl
He seemed a very intelligent person
Yes
he has great talents and great integrity. I would trust him with anything and to any amount. All I wish
all I wish is, that he was not quite so fond of politics
Is he very violent
Too violent
and wild in his ideas
And yet I suppose
he must be very well off
Why I must say for him it is not selfishness that makes him a malcontent
he bemoans the condition of the people
If we are to judge of the condition of the people by what we see here
there is little to lament in it. But I fear these are instances not so common as we could wish. You must have been at a great outlay, Mr Trafford
Why
for my part. I have always considered that there was nothing so expensive as a vicious population. I hope I had other objects in view in what I have done than a pecuniary compensation. They say we all have our hobbies; and it was ever mine to improve the condition of my workpeople, to see what good tenements and good schools and just wages paid in a fair manner, and the encouragement of civilizing pursuits, would do to elevate their character. I should find an ample reward in the moral tone and material happiness of this community; but really viewing it in a pecuniary point of view, the investment of capital has been one of the most profitable I ever made; and I would not, I assure you. for double its amount, exchange my workpeople for the promiscuous assemblage engaged in other factories
The influence of the atmosphere on the condition of the labourer is a subject which deserves investigation
And you do not feel alarmed at having a person of such violent opinions as your inspector at the head of your establishment
What is the name of the intelligent individual who accompanied us
His name is Gerard
I believe a common name in these parts
Not very
'tis an old name and the stock has spread; but all Gerards claim a common lineage I believe, and my inspector has gentle blood, they say, in his veins
He looks as if he had
All persons with good names affect good blood
I am all for looking after the beautiful Nun
I think I shall ask the respectable manufacturer to introduce me to her
You should have come sooner
and then you might have gone round with the fine folks. We have had a grand party here from the castle
So I perceived
and withdrew
Ah! they were not in your way, eh
Well, they were very condescending -- at least for such great people. An earl! Earl de Mowbray,-- I suppose he came over with William the Conqueror. Mr Trafford makes a show of the place. and it amuses their visitors I dare say, like anything else that's strange. There were some young gentlemen with them, who did not seem to know much about anything. I thought I had a right to be amused too; and I must say I liked very much to see one of them looking at the machinery through his eye-glass. There was one very venturesome chap: I thought he was going to catch hold of the fly-wheel, but I gave him a spin which I believed saved his life, though he did rather stare. He was a lord
They are great heiresses, his daughters, they say at Mowbray
I dare say
A year ago this earl had a son -- an only son, and then his daughters were not great heiresses. But the son died and now it's their turn. And perhaps some day it will be somebody else's turn. If you want to understand the ups and downs of life, there's nothing like the parchments of an estate. Now master, now man! He who served in the hall now lords in it: and very often the baseborn change their liveries for coronets, while gentle blood has nothing left but -- dreams; eh, master Franklin
It seems you know the history of this Lord de Mowbray
Why a man learns a good many things in his time; and living in these parts. there are few secrets of the notables. He has had the title to his broad acres questioned before this time, my friend
Indeed
Yes: I could not help thinking of that to-day
when he questioned me with his mincing voice and pulled the wool with his cursed white hands and showed it to his dame, who touched it with her little finger; and his daughters who tossed their heads like pea-hens -- Lady Joan and Lady Maud. Lady Joan and Lady Maud
I did not care for the rest; but I could not stand that Lady Joan and that Lady Maud. I wonder if my Sybil saw them
And we took advantage of your absence
to find out all about you. And what a pity we did not know you when you were at the convent, because then you might have been constantly at the castle; indeed I should have insisted on it. But still I hear we are neighbours; you must promise to pay me a visit, you must indeed. Is not she beautiful
Do you know I think there is so much beauty among the lower order
You really must come and see me
I shall never be happy till you have made me a visit. Where do you live? I will come and fetch you myself in the carriage. Now let us fix a day at once. Let me see; this is Saturday. What say you to next Monday
I thank you
but I never quit my home
What a darling
Is not she? I know exactly what you feel. But really you shall not be the least embarrassed. It may feel strange at first, to be sure, but then I shall be there; and do you know I look upon you quite as my prot,g,e
Prot,g,e
I live with my father
What a dear
Is not she naive
And are you the guardian of these beautiful flowers
Mrs Trafford is very proud of them
You must see the flowers at Mowbray Castle
They are unprecedented, are they not, Lord Milford? You know you said the other day that they were almost equal to Mrs Lawrence's. I am charmed to find you are fond of flowers
you will be so delighted with Mowbray. Ah! mama is calling us. Now fix -- shall it be Monday
Indeed
I never leave my home. I am one of the lower order, and live only among the lower order. I am here to-day merely for a few hours to pay an act of homage to a benefactor
Well I shall come and fetch you
And so shall I
And so shall I
Ah! I was made for this, Sybil
but never mind, my child, never mind; tell me more of your fine visitors
Our companion in the ruins of Marney Abbey
you and our friend Franklin here should become acquainted, Stephen, for you both follow the same craft. He is a journalist like yourself, and is our neighbour for a time, and yours
What journal are you on, may I ask
I have no claim to the distinguished title of a journalist. I am but a reporter; and have some special duties here
Hem
Well I have found him, Walter
What, Hatton
No, no; the brother
And what knows he
Little enough; yet something. Our man lives and prospers; these are facts, but where he is, or what he is -- not a clue
And this brother cannot help us
On the contrary, he sought information from me; he is a savage, beneath even our worst ideas of popular degradation. All that is ascertained is that our man exists and is well to do in the world. There comes an annual and anonymous contribution, and not a light one, to his brother. I examined the post-marks of the letters, but they all varied, and were evidently arranged to mislead. I fear you will deem I have not done much; yet it was wearisome enough I can tell you
I doubt it not; and I am sure Stephen, you have done all that man could. I was fancying that I should hear from you to-day; for what think you has happened? My Lord himself, his family and train, have all been in state to visit the works, and I had to show them. Queer that, wasn't it? He offered me money when it was over. How much I know not, I would not look at it. Though to be sure, they were perhaps my own rents, eh? But I pointed to the sick box and his own dainty hand deposited the sum there
'Tis very strange. And you were with him face to face
Face to face. Had you brought me news of the papers, I should have thought that providence had rather a hand in it -- but now, we are still at sea
Still at sea
but he lives and prospers. He will turn up yet, Walter
Amen! Since you have taken up this thing, Stephen, it is strange how my mind has hankered after the old business, and yet it ruined my father, and mayhap may do as bad for his son
We will not think that
At present we will think of other things. You may guess I am a bit wearied; I think I'll say good night; you have strangers with you
Nay, nay man; nay. This Franklin is a likely lad enough; I think you will take to him. Prithee come in. Sybil will not take it kindly if you go, after so long an absence; and I am sure I shall not
The domestic feeling is fast vanishing among the working classes of this country
nor is it wonderful -- the Home no longer exists
But there are means of reviving it
we have witnessed them to-day. Give men homes, and they will have soft and homely notions, If all men acted like Mr Trafford, the condition of the people would be changed
But all men will not act like Mr Trafford
It requires a sacrifice of self which cannot be expected, which is unnatural. It is not individual influence that can renovate society: it is some new principle that must reconstruct it. You lament the expiring idea of Home. It would not be expiring, if it were worth retaining. The domestic principle has fulfilled its purpose. The irresistible law of progress demands that another should be developed. It will come; you may advance or retard, but you cannot prevent it. It will work out like the development of organic nature. In the present state of civilization and with the scientific means of happiness at our command, the notion of home should be obsolete. Home is a barbarous idea; the method of a rude age; home is isolation; therefore anti-social. What we want is Community
It is all very fine
and I dare say you are right, Stephen; but I like stretching my feet on my own hearth
What do you think of that, Franklin
That is our worthy friend of Marney Abbey, where we first met. You do not know this part of the country, or you would smile at the considerate condescension of the worst landlord in England; and who was, it seems, thus employed the day or so after his battue, as they call it
At a Petty Sessions holden at the Green Dragon Inn, Marney, Friday, October --, 1837. "Magistrates present: The Earl of Marney, the Rev. Felix Flimsey, and Captain Grouse. 

"Information against Robert Hind for a trespass in pursuit of game in Blackrock Wood, the property of Sir Vavasour Firebrace, Bart. The case was distinctly proved; several wires being found in the pocket of the defendant. Defendant was fined in the full penalty of forty shillings and costs twenty-seven; the Bench being of opinion there was no excuse for him, Hind being in regular employ as a farm labourer and gaining his seven shillings a-week. Defendant being unable to pay the penalty, was sent for two months to Marham Gaol
What a pity
that Robert Hind, instead of meditating the snaring of a hare, had not been fortunate enough to pick up a maimed one crawling about the fields the day after the battue. It would certainly have been better for himself; and if he has a wife and family, better for the parish
Oh
I doubt not they were all picked up by the poulterer who has the contract: even the Normans did not sell their game
The question is
would you rather be barbarous or mean; that is the alternative presented by the real and the pseudo Norman nobility of England. Where I have been lately, there is a Bishopsgate Street merchant who has been made for no conceiveable public reason a baron bold. Bigod and Bohun could not enforce the forest laws with such severity as this dealer in cotton and indigo
It is a difficult question to deal with -- this affair of the game laws
how will you reach the evil? Would you do away with the offence of trespass? And if so, what is your protection for property
It comes to a simple point though
the Territorialists must at length understand that they cannot at the same time have the profits of a farm and the pleasures of a chase
Best of friends, I must leave Mowedale
I am very sorry
and when
Now
Now
Yes; this instant. My summons is urgent. I ought to have left this morning. I came here then to bid you farewell
to express to you how deeply I was indebted to you for all your goodness -- how dearly I shall cherish the memory of these happy days -- the happiest I have ever known
I came also to leave a kind message for you, my friend, a hope that we might meet again and soon -- but your daughter was absent, and I could not leave Mowedale without seeing either of you. So I must contrive to get on through the night
Well we lose a very pleasant neighbour
we shall miss you, I doubt not, eh, Sybil
you have shewn me a thousand kindnesses, which I cherish
above all human circumstances. Would you deign to let this volume lie upon your table
Sybil, from a faithful friend
I accept it
in remembrance of a friend
Who is there
Harold
Are you going down to the house, Egerton
The moment I have sealed this letter; we will walk down together, if you like
Our fellows are in a sort of fright about this Jamaica bill
Don't say anything about it, but there's a screw loose
The deuce! But how do you mean
They say the Rads are going to throw us over
Talk, talk. They have threatened this half-a-dozen times. Smoke, sir; it will end in smoke
That may be; I believe our fellows are heartily sick of the business, and perhaps would be glad of an excuse to break up the government: but we must not have Peel in; nothing could prevent a dissolution
Their fellows go about and say that Peel would not dissolve if he came in
Trust him
He has had enough of dissolutions they say
Why, after all they have not done him much harm. Even -- 34 was a hit
Whoever dissolves
I don't think there will be much of a majority either way in our time
We have seen strange things
They never would think of breaking up the government without making their peers
The Queen is not over partial to making more peers; and when parties are in the present state of equality, the Sovereign is no longer a mere pageant
They say her Majesty is more touched about these affairs of the Chartists than anything else
They are rather queer; but for my part I have no serious fears of a Jacquerie
Not if it comes to an outbreak; but a passive resistance Jacquerie is altogether a different thing. When we see a regular Convention assembled in London and holding its daily meetings in Palace Yard; and a general inclination evinced throughout the country to refrain from the consumption of exciseable articles, I cannot help thinking that affairs are more serious than you imagine. I know the government are all on the 'qui vive
Just the fellows we wanted
We want a brace of pairs
Will you two fellows pair
I must go down
but I will pair from halfpast seven to eleven
I just paired with Ormsby at White's
not half an hour ago. We are both going to dine at Eskdale's, and so it was arranged. Have you any news to-day
Nothing; except that they say that Alfred Mountchesney is going to marry Lady Joan Fitz-Warene
She has been given to so many
It is always so with these great heiresses
They never marry. They cannot bear the thought of sharing their money. I bet Lady Joan will turn out another specimen of the TABITHA CROESUS
Well, put down our pair, Egerton
You do not dine at Sidonia's by any chance
Would that I did! You will have the best dishes and the best guests. I feed at old Malton's; perhaps a t^te a t^te: Scotch broth, and to tell him the news
There is nothing like being a dutiful nephew, particularly when one's uncle is a bachelor and has twenty thousand a- year
Au revoir! I suppose there will be no division to-night
No chance
Ah! Mr Berners, how d'ye do? You were just the person I wanted to see! How is Lady Augusta, Mr Egerton? You have no idea, Mr Berners, how I have been fighting your battles
Really, Lady Firebrace
You are too good
Oh! I don't care what a person's politics are
I should be very glad indeed to see you one of us. You know your father was! But if any one is my friend I never will hear him attacked behind his back without fighting his battles; and I certainly did fight yours last night
Pray tell me where it was
Lady Crumbleford
Confound Lady Crumbleford
No, no; Lady Crumbleford told Lady Alicia Severn
Yes, yes
But I cannot stop
I must be with Lady St Julians exactly at a quarter past four
I would sooner meet any woman in London than Lady Firebrace
she makes me uneasy for the day: she contrives to convince me that the whole world are employed behind my back in abusing or ridiculing me
It is her way
she proves her zeal by showing you that you are odious. It is very successful with people of weak nerves. Scared at their general unpopularity, they seek refuge with the very person who at the same time assures them of their odium and alone believes it unjust. She rules that poor old goose, Lady Gramshawe, who feels that Lady Firebrace makes her life miserable, but is convinced that if she break with the torturer, she loses her only friend
There goes a man who is as much altered as any fellow of our time
Not in his looks; I was thinking the other night that he was better-looking than ever
Oh! no; not in his looks; but in his life. I was at Christchurch with him, and we entered the world about the same time. I was rather before him. He did everything; and did it well. And now one never sees him, except at the House. He goes nowhere; and they tell me he is a regular reading man
Do you think he looks to office
He does not put himself forward
He attends; and his brother will always be able to get anything for him
Oh! he and Marney never speak; they hate each other
By Jove! However there is his mother; with this marriage of hers and Deloraine House, she will be their grandest dame
She is the only good woman the tories have: I think their others do them harm, from Lady St Julians down to your friend Lady Firebrace. I wish Lady Deloraine were with us. She keeps their men together wonderfully; makes her house agreeable; and then her manner -- it certainly is perfect; natural, and yet refined
Lady Mina Blake has an idea that far from looking to office, Egremont's heart is faintly with his party; and that if it were not for the Marchioness
We might gain him, eh
Hem; I hardly know that: he has got crotchets about the people I am told
What, the ballot and household suffrage
Gad, I believe it is quite a different sort of a thing. I do not know what it is exactly; but I understand he is crotchetty
Well, that will not do for Peel. He does not like crotchetty men. Do you see that, Egerton
I give them eleven
Well, Charles tells me
that Sir Thomas says so, and he certainly is generally right; but it is not Charles' own opinion
Sir Thomas, I know, gives them eleven
and that would satisfy me; and we will say eleven. But I have a list here
which proves that they cannot have more than nine; but this is in the greatest confidence: of course between us there can be no secrets. It is Mr Tadpole's list; nobody has seen it but me; not even Sir Robert. Lord Grubminster has had a stroke: they are concealing it, but Mr Tadpole has found it out. They wanted to pair him off with Colonel Fantomme, who they think is dying: but Mr Tadpole has got a Mesmerist who has done wonders for him, and who has guaranteed that he shall vote. Well, that makes a difference of one
And then Sir Henry Churton
Oh! you know it
Yes: he votes with us
I think
I know the origin of that report. Quite a mistake. He is in a had humour, has been so the whole session, and he was at Lady Alice Fermyne's, and did say all sorts of things. All that is true. But he told Charles this morning on a committee, that he should vote with the Government
Stupid man
I never could bear him. And I have sent his vulgar wife and great staring daughter a card for next Wednesday! Well, I hope affairs will soon be brought to a crisis, for I do not think I can bear much longer this life of perpetual sacrifice
There is no chance of a division to-night
That is settled
Adieu, my dear friend. We meet, I believe, at dinner
Plotting
The only consolation one has
is, that if they do turn us out, Lady Deloraine and Lady St Julians must quarrel, for they both want the same thing
Lady Deloraine will have it
How will Trodgits go
I think Trodgits will stay away
Who do you give that new man to -- that north-country borough fellow;-- what's his name
Blugsby! Oh, Blugsby dined with Peel
Our fellows say dinners are no good
and they certainly are a cursed bore: but you may depend upon it they do for the burgesses. We don't dine our men half enough. Now Blugsby was just the sort of fellow to be caught by dining with Peel: and I dare say they made Peel remember to take wine with him. We got Melbourne to give a grand feed the other day to some of our men who want attention they say, and he did not take wine with a single guest. He forgot. I wonder what they are doing at the House! Here's Spencer May, he will tell us. Well, what is going on
WISHY is up, and WASHY follows
No division, of course
Not a chance; a regular covey ready on both sides
A truce to politics, my dear Charles
you must be wearied with my inquiries. Besides, I do not take the sanguine view of affairs in which some of our friends indulge. I am one of those who think the pear is not ripe. These men will totter on, and longer perhaps than even themselves imagine. I want to speak of something very different. To- morrow, my dear son, is your birth-day. Now I should grieve were it to pass without your receiving something which showed that its recollection was cherished by your mother. But of all silly things in the world, the silliest is a present that is not wanted. It destroys the sentiment a little perhaps but it enhances the gift, if I ask you in the most literal manner to assist me in giving you something that really would please you
But how can I, my dear mother
You have ever been so kind and so generous that I literally want nothing
Oh! you cannot be such a fortunate man as to want nothing, Charles
A dressing-case you have: your rooms are furnished enough: all this is in my way; but there are such things as horses and guns of which I know nothing, but which men always require. You must want a horse or a gun, Charles. Well, I should like you to get either; the finest, the most valuable that money can purchase. Or a brougham, Charles; what do you think of a new brougham? Would you like that Barker should build you a brougham
You are too good, my dear mother. I have horses and guns enough; and my present carriage is all I can desire
You will not assist me, then? You are resolved that I shall do something very stupid. For to give you something I am determined
Well my dear mother
give me something that is here
Choose then
It would be plunder, my dear mother
No, no; you have said it; you shall choose something. Will you have those vases
They are in too becoming a position to be disturbed
and would ill suit my quiet chambers, where a bronze or a marble is my greatest ornament. If you would permit me, I would rather choose a picture
Then select one at once
I make no reservation, except that Watteau, for it was given me by your father before we were married. Shall it be this Cuyp
I would rather choose this
Ah! you choose that! Well, that was a great favourite of poor Sir Thomas Lawrence. But for my part I have never seen any one in the least like it, and I think I am sure that you have not
It reminds me
Of what you have dreamed
Perhaps so
indeed I think it must have been a dream
Well, the vision shall still hover before you
and you shall find this portrait to-morrow over your chimney in the Albany
Strangers must withdraw
Division: clear the gallery. Withdraw
Nonsense; no; it's quite ridiculous; quite absurd. Some fellow must get up. Send to the Carlton; send to the Reform
Where are you going, Fitztheron
I must go; I am paired till half-past eleven, and it wants some minutes, and my man is not here
Confound it
How will it go
Gad, I don't know
Fishy eh
Deuced
The rest may be accounted for
it is simply vexatious; it was a surprise and will be a lesson: but this affair of this Mr Trenchard -- and they tell me that William Loraine was absolutely cheering him the whole time -- what does it mean? Do you know the man
I have heard Charles speak of him, and I think much in his favour
if he were here, he would tell us more about it. I wonder he does not come: he never misses looking in after a great division and giving me all the news
Do you know, my dear friend
I am half meditating a great stroke? This is not a time for trifling. It is all very well for these people to boast of their division of last night, but it was a surprise, and as great to them as to us. I know there is dissension in the camp; ever since that Finality speech of Lord John, there has been a smouldering sedition. Mr Tadpole knows all about it; he has liaisons with the frondeurs. This affair of Trenchard may do us the greatest possible injury. When it comes to a fair fight, the government have not more than twelve or so. If this Mr Trenchard and three or four others choose to make themselves of importance -- you see? The danger is imminent, it must be met with decision
And what do you propose doing
Has he a wife
I really do not know. I wish Charles would come, perhaps he could tell us
I have no doubt he has
One would have met him, somehow or other in the course of two years, if he had not been married. Well, married or unmarried, with his wife, or without his wife,-- I shall send him a card for Wednesday
Do not you think it would be rather sudden
What does that signify? He will understand it; he will have gained his object; and all will be right
But are you sure it is his object? We do not know the man
What else can be his object
People get into Parliament to get on; their aims are indefinite. If they have indulged in hallucinations about place before they enter the House, they are soon freed from such distempered fancies; they find they have no more talent than other people, and if they had, they learn that power, patronage and pay are reserved for us and our friends. Well then like practical men, they look to some result, and they get it. They are asked out to dinner more than they would be; they move rigmarole resolutions at nonsensical public meetings; and they get invited with their women to assemblies at their leader's where they see stars and blue ribbons, and above all, us, whom they little think in appearing on such occasions, make the greatest conceivable sacrifice. Well then, of course such people are entirely in one's power, if one only had time and inclination to notice them. You can do anything with them. Ask them to a ball, and they will give you their votes; invite them to dinner and if necessary they will rescind them; but cultivate them, remember their wives at assemblies and call their daughters, if possible, by their right names; and they will not only change their principles or desert their party for you; but subscribe their fortunes if necessary and lay down their lives in your service
You paint them to the life, my dear Lady St Julians
but with such knowledge and such powers, why did you not save our boroughs
We had lost our heads, then, I must confess
What with the dear King and the dear Duke, we really had brought ourselves to believe that we lived in the days of Versailles or nearly; and I must admit I think we had become a little too exclusive. Out of the cottage circle, there was really no world, and after all we were lost not by insulting the people but by snubbing the aristocracy
Oh! my dear Lady Deloraine. Oh! my dear Lady St Julians
You have no news, I suppose
Only about that dreadful Mr Trenchard; you know the reason why he ratted
No, indeed
An invitation to Lansdowne House, for himself and his wife
Oh! he is married then
Yes; she is at the bottom of it all. Terms regularly settled beforehand. I have a note here -- all the facts
Lansdowne House is destined to cross me
Well it is very provoking
when you had made up your mind to ask them for Wednesday
Yes, that alone is a sacrifice
Talking over the division I suppose
Ah! Mr Egremont
Charles
we were talking of this Mr Trenchard. Did I not once hear you say you knew something of him
Why, he is one of my intimate acquaintance
Heavens! what a man for a friend
Heavens
And why did you not present him to me, Charles
I did; at Lady Peel's
And why did you not ask him here
I did several times; but he would not come
He is going to Lansdowne House, though
I suppose you wrote the leading article in the Standard which I have just read
It announces in large type the secret reasons of Mr Trenchard's vote
It is a fact
That Trenchard is going to Lansdowne House to-night; very likely. I have met him at Lansdowne House half-a-dozen times. He is very intimate with the family and lives in the same county
But his wife
that's the point: he never could get his wife there before
He has none
Then we may regain him
You shall make a little dinner to Greenwich, Mr Egremont, and I will sit next to him
Fortunate Trenchard
But do you know I fear he is hardly worthy of his lot. He has a horror of fine ladies; and there is nothing in the world he more avoids than what you call society. At home, as this morning when I breakfasted with him, or in a circle of his intimates, he is the best company in the world; no one so well informed, fuller of rich humour, and more sincerely amiable. He is popular with all who know him -- except Taper, Lady St Julians, and Tadpole, Lady Firebrace
Well, I think I will ask him still for Wednesday
and I will write him a little note. If society is not his object, what is
Ay
there is a great question for you and Lady Firebrace to ponder over. This is a lesson for you fine ladies, who think you can govern the world by what you call your social influences: asking people once or twice a-year to an inconvenient crowd in your house; now haughtily smirking, and now impertinently staring, at them; and flattering yourselves all this time, that to have the occasional privilege of entering your saloons and the periodical experience of your insolent recognition, is to be a reward for great exertions, or if necessary an inducement to infamous tergiversation
I wonder if Warner will speak to-night
He can't pitch it in like Gerard
But he is a trump in the tender
The Handlooms looks to him as their man, and that's a powerful section
If you come to the depth of a question, there's nothing like Stephen Morley
'Twould take six clergymen any day to settle him. He knows the principles of society by heart. But Gerard gets hold of the passions
And that's the way to do the trick
I wish he would say march, and no mistake
There is a great deal to do before saying that
We must have discussion, because when it comes to reasoning, the oligarchs have not got a leg to stand on; and we must stop the consumption of exciseable articles, and when they have no tin to pay the bayonets and their b -- y police, they are dished
You have a long head, Dusty
Why I have been thinking of it ever since I knew two and two made four
I was not ten years old when I said to myself -- It's a pretty go this, that I should be toiling in a shoddy-hole to pay the taxes for a gentleman what drinks his port wine and stretches his legs on a Turkey carpet. Hear, hear
Ah! that's the man for the people. You will see, Mick, whatever happens, Gerard is the man who will always lead
Now, Mick
are you firm
All right, my hearty
There is a good deal to go through
It tries a man
You don't mean that
But if you are firm, all's right. Now I must leave you
No, no, Dusty
I must go
and you must rest here till you are sent for. Now mind -- whatever is bid you, obey; and whatever you see, be quiet. There
give a good pull, man, I can't leave it you, for though your heart must be warm, your head must be cool
I say. what do you want
Come, come
none of this sort of thing. I say, you must speak though
No, no; none of that
In five minutes you will be in the presence of the SEVEN -- prepare
I denounce John Briars
Why
He offers to take nothing but piece-work; the man who does piece-work is guilty of less defensible conduct than a drunkard. The worst passions of our nature are enlisted in support of piece-work. Avarice, meanness, cunning, hypocrisy, all excite and feed upon the miserable votary who works by the task and not by the hour. A man who earns by piece-work forty shillings per week, the usual wages for day-work being twenty, robs his fellows of a week's employment; therefore I denounce John Briars
Let it go forth
John Briars is denounced. If he receive another week's wages by the piece, he shall not have the option of working the week after for time. No.87, see to John Briars
I denounce Claughton and Hicks
Why
They have removed Gregory Ray from being a superintendent, because he belonged to this lodge
Brethren, is it your pleasure that there shall be a turn out for ten days at Claughton and Hicks
It is our pleasure
No.34, give orders to-morrow that the works at Claughton and Hicks stop till further orders
Brethren
I propose the expulsion from this Union, of any member who shall be known to boast of his superior ability, as to either the quantity or quality of work he can do, either in public or private company. Is it your pleasure
It is our pleasure
Brethren
before we proceed to the receipt of the revenue from the different districts of this lodge, there is I am informed a stranger present, who prays to be admitted into our fraternity. Are all robed in the mystic robe? Are all masked in the secret mask
Then let us pray
Michael Radley
Do you voluntarily swear in the presence of Almighty God and before these witnesses, that you will execute with zeal and alacrity, as far as in you lies, every task and injunction that the majority of your brethren testified by the mandate of this grand committee, shall impose upon you, in futherance of our common welfare, of which they are the sole judges; such as the chastisement of Nobs, the assassination of oppressive and tyrannical masters, or the demolition of all mills, works and shops that shall be deemed by us incorrigible. Do you swear this in the presence of Almighty God and before these witnesses
I do swear it
Then rise and kiss that book
His lordship has not yet rung his bell, gentlemen
I fear we are too early for these fine birds
Who is next on our list
No.27, --- Street, close by; Mr THOROUGH BASE: he ought to be with the people, for his father was only a fiddler; but I understand he is quite an aristocrat and has married a widow of quality
Well, knock
provided his expenses were paid
It is two o'clock
I think we may venture
Well, gentlemen
I promised to see you; well, what have you got to say
And supposing these five points conceded
what do you mean to do
The people then being at length really represented
they would decide upon the measures which the interests of the great majority require
I am not so clear about that
that is the very point at issue. I do not think the great majority are the best judges of their own interests. At all events, gentlemen, the respective advantages of aristocracy and democracy are a moot point. Well then, finding the question practically settled in this country, you will excuse me for not wishing to agitate it. I give you complete credit for the sincerity of your convictions; extend the same confidence to me. You are democrats; I am an aristocrat. My family has been ennobled for nearly three centuries; they bore a knightly name before their elevation. They have mainly and materially assisted in making England what it is. They have shed their blood in many battles; I have had two ancestors killed in the command of our fleets. You will not underrate such services, even if you do not appreciate their conduct as statesmen, though that has often been laborious, and sometimes distinguished. The finest trees in England were planted by my family; they raised several of your most beautiful churches; they have built bridges, made roads, dug mines, and constructed canals, and drained a marsh of a million of acres which bears our name to this day, and is now one of the most flourishing portions of the country. You talk of our taxation and our wars; and of your inventions and your industry. Our wars converted an island into an empire, and at any rate developed that industry and stimulated those inventions of which you boast. You tell me that you are the delegates of the unrepresented working classes of Mowbray. Why, what would Mowbray have been if it had not been for your aristocracy and their wars? Your town would not have existed; there would have been no working classes there to send up delegates. In fact you owe your every existence to us. I have told you what my ancestors have done; I am prepared, if the occasion requires it, not to disgrace them; I have inherited their great position, and I tell you fairly, gentlemen, I will not relinquish it without a struggle
Will you combat the people in that suit of armour, my lord
That suit of armour has combated for the people before this
for it stood by Simon de Montfort on the field of Evesham
My lord
it is well known that you come from a great and honoured race; and we have seen enough to-day to show that in intelligence and spirit you are not unworthy of your ancestry. But the great question, which your lordship has introduced, not us, is not to be decided by a happy instance. Your ancestors may have done great things. What wonder! They were members of a very limited class which had the monopoly of action. And the people, have not they shed their blood in battle, though they may have commanded fleets less often than your lordship's relatives? And these mines and canals that you have excavated and constructed, these woods you have planted, these waters you have drained -- had the people no hand in these creations? What share in these great works had that faculty of Labour whose sacred claims we now urge, but which for centuries have been passed over in contemptuous silence? No, my lord, we call upon you to decide this question by the result. The Aristocracy of England have had for three centuries the exercise of power; for the last century and a half that exercise has been uncontrolled; they form at this moment the most prosperous class that the history of the world can furnish: as rich as the Roman senators, with sources of convenience and enjoyment which modern science could alone supply. All this is not denied. Your order stands before Europe the most gorgeous of existing spectacles; though you have of late years dexterously thrown some of the odium of your polity upon that middle class which you despise, and who are despicable only because they imitate you, your tenure of power is not in reality impaired. You govern us still with absolute authority -- and you govern the most miserable people on the face of the globe
And is this a fair description of the people of England
A flash of rhetoric, I presume, that would place them lower than the Portuguese or the Poles, the serfs of Russia or the Lazzaroni of Naples
Infinitely lower
for they are not only degraded, but conscious of their degradation. They no longer believe in any innate difference between the governing and the governed classes of this country. They are sufficiently enlightened to feel they are victims. Compared with the privileged classes of their own land, they are in a lower state than any other population compared with its privileged classes. All is relative, my lord, and believe me, the relations of the working classes of England to its privileged orders are relations of enmity, and therefore of peril
The people must have leaders
And they have found them
When it comes to a push they will follow their nobility
Will their nobility lead them
For my part I do not pretend to be a philosopher, and if I saw a Simon de Montfort again I should be content to fight under his banner
We have an aristocracy of wealth
In a progressive civilization wealth is the only means of class distinction: but a new disposition of wealth may remove even this
Ah! you want to get at our estates
but the effort on your part may resolve society into its original elements, and the old sources of distinction may again develope themselves
Tall barons will not stand against Paixhans rockets
Modern science has vindicated the natural equality of man
And I must say I am very sorry for it
for human strength always seems to me the natural process of settling affairs
I am not surprised at your opinion
I should not be over- glad to meet you in a fray. You stand some inches above six feet, or I am mistaken
I was six feet two inches when I stopped growing
and age has not stolen any of my height yet
That suit of armour would fit you
And might I ask your lordship
why it is here
I am to represent Richard Coeur de Lion at the Queen's ball
and before my sovereign I will not don a Drury-Lane cuirass, so I got this up from my father's castle
Ah! I almost wish the good old times of Coeur de Lion were here again
And we should be serfs
I am not sure of that
At any rate there was the free forest
I like that young fellow
He has awful prejudices
Well, well; he has his opinions and we have ours. But he is a man; with clear, straightforward ideas, a frank, noble, presence; and as good-looking a fellow as I ever set eyes on. Where are we now
We have only one more name on our list to-day, and it is at hand. Letter K, No.1, Albany. Another member of the aristocracy, the Honourable Charles Egremont
Well, I prefer them, as far as I can judge, to Wriggle, and Rip, and Thorough Base
I dare say we should have found Lord Milford a very jolly fellow, if he had only been up
Here we are
Mr Egremont, is he at home
The gentlemen of the deputation? Yes, my master gave particular orders that he was at home to you. Will you walk in, gentlemen
There you see
This would be a lesson to Thorough Base
Mr Franklin
Indeed
I can easily imagine you must have been surprised at seeing me in this great city. But many things, strange and unforeseen, have happened to us since you were at Mowedale. You know, of course you with your pursuits must know, that the People have at length resolved to summon their own parliament in Westminster. The people of Mowbray had to send up two delegates to the Convention, and they chose my father for one of them. For so great is their confidence in him none other would content them
He must have made a great sacrifice in coming
Oh! what are sacrifices in such a cause
Yes; he made great sacrifices
great sacrifices, and I am proud of them. Our home, which was a happy home, is gone; he has quitted the Traffords to whom we were knit by many, many ties
and for whom, I know well he would have perilled his life. And now we are parted
perhaps for ever. They offered to receive me under their roof
Had I needed shelter there was another roof which has long awaited me: but I could not leave my father at such a moment. He appealed to me: and I am here. All I desire, all I live for, is to soothe and support him in his great struggle; and I should die content if the People were only free, and a Gerard had freed them
Let me walk home with you
My father is not there
but I will not fail to tell him that I have met his old companion
Would he had been as frank
You must indeed let me attend you
It is not far
We live almost in the Precinct- -in an old house with some kind old people, the brother of one of the nuns of Mowbray. The nearest way to it is straight along this street, but that is too bustling for me. I have discovered
a more tranquil path
And how long have you been in London
A fortnight. 'Tis a great prison. How strange it is that, in a vast city like this, one can scarcely walk alone
You want Harold
How is that most faithful of friends
Poor Harold! To part with him too was a pang
I fear your hours must be heavy
Oh! no
there is so much at stake; so much to hear the moment my father returns. I take so much interest too in their discussions; and sometimes I go to hear him speak. None of them can compare with him. It seems to me that it would be impossible to resist our claims if our rulers only heard them from his lips
Your Convention is in its bloom, or rather its bud
all is fresh and pure now; but a little while and it will find the fate of all popular assemblies. You will have factions
But why
They are the real representatives of the people, and all that the people want is justice; that Labour should be as much respected by law and society as Property
This is my home
It is a still place and suits us well
Baptist Hatton, Esq., Inner Temple
This letter is I believe addressed to you, Sir
Sir, I am extremely obliged to you
the letter belongs to me, though it is not addressed to me. I must have this moment dropped it. My name, Sir, is Firebrace -- Sir Vavasour Firebrace, and this letter is addressed to a -- a -- not exactly my lawyer, but a gentleman -- a professional gentleman -- whom I am in the habit of frequently seeing; daily, I may say. He is employed in a great question in which I am deeply interested. Sir, I am vastly obliged to you, and I trust that you are satisfied
Oh I perfectly, Sir Vavasour
Do you happen to know a lawyer by name Hatton in this Inn
No lawyer of that name; but the famous Hatton lives here
The famous Hatton! And what is he famous for? You forget I am a provincial
He has made more peers of the realm than our gracious Sovereign
And since the reform of parliament the only chance of a tory becoming a peer is the favour of Baptist Hatton; though who he is no one knows, and what he is no one can describe
You speak in conundrums
I wish I could guess them. Try to adapt yourself to my somewhat simple capacity
In a word, then
if you must have a definition, Hatton may rank under the genus 'antiquary,' though his species is more difficult to describe. He is a heraldic antiquary; a discoverer, inventor, framer, arranger of pedigrees; profound in the mysteries of genealogies; an authority I believe unrivalled in everything that concerns the constitution and elements of the House of Lords; consulted by lawyers, though not professing the law; and startling and alarming the noblest families in the country by claiming the ancient baronies which they have often assumed without authority, for obscure pretenders, many of whom he has succeeded in seating in the parliament of his country
And what part of the country did he come from: do you happen to know
He may be a veritable subject of the kingdom of Cockaigne, for aught I know
He has been buried in this inn I believe for years; for very many before I settled here; and for a long time I apprehend was sufficiently obscure, though doing they say a great deal in a small way; but the Mallory case made his fortune about ten years ago. That was a barony by writ of summons which had been claimed a century before, and failed. Hatton seated his man, and the precedent enabled three or four more gentlemen under his auspices to follow that example. They were Roman Catholics, which probably brought him the Mallory case, for Hatton is of the old church; better than that, they were all gentlemen of great estate, and there is no doubt their champion was well rewarded for his successful service. They say he is very rich. At present all the business of the country connected with descents flows into his chambers. Not a pedigree in dispute, not a peerage in abeyance, which is not submitted to his consideration. I don't know him personally; but you can now form some idea of his character: and if you want to claim a peerage
he is your man
What you tell me, Sir Vavasour, is what I foresaw, but which, as my influence could not affect it, I dismissed from my thoughts. You came to me for a specific object. I accomplished it. I undertook to ascertain the rights and revive the claims of the baronets of England. That was what you required me: I fulfilled your wish. Those rights are ascertained; those claims are revived. A great majority of the Order have given in their adhesion to the organized movement. The nation is acquainted with your demands, accustomed to them, and the monarch once favourably received them. I can do no more; I do not pretend to make baronets, still less can I confer on those already made the right to wear stars and coronets, the dark green dress of Equites aurati, or white hats with white plumes of feathers. These distinctions, even if their previous usage were established, must flow from the gracious permission of the Crown, and no one could expect in an age hostile to personal distinctions, that any ministry would recommend the sovereign to a step which with vulgar minds would be odious, and by malignant ones might be rendered ridiculous
Ridiculous
All the world
do not take upon these questions the same enlightened view as ourselves, Sir Vavasour. I never could for a moment believe that the Sovereign would consent to invest such a numerous body of men with such privileges
But you never expressed this opinion
You never asked for my opinion
and if I had given it, you and your friends would not have been influenced by it. The point was one on which you might with reason hold yourselves as competent judges as I am. All you asked of me was to make out your case, and I made it out. I will venture to say a better case never left these chambers; I do not believe there is a person in the kingdom who could answer it except myself. They have refused the Order their honours, Sir Vavasour, but it is some consolation that they have never answered their case
I think it only aggravates the oppression
but cannot you advise any new step, Mr Hatton? After so many years of suspense, after so much anxiety and such a vast expenditure, it really is too bad that I and Lady Firebrace should be announced at court in the same style as our fishmonger, if he happens to be a sheriff
I can make a Peer
but I do not pretend to make Baronets. I can place a coronet with four balls on a man's brow; but a coronet with two balls is an exercise of the prerogative with which I do not presume to interfere
I mention it in the utmost confidence
but Lady Firebrace has a sort of promise that in the event of a change of government, we shall be in the first batch of peers
Sir Robert
will make no peers; take my word for that. The whigs and I have so deluged the House of Lords, that you may rely upon it as a secret of state, that if the tories come in, there will be no peers made. I know the Queen is sensitively alive to the cheapening of all honours of late years. If the whigs go out to-morrow, mark me, they will disappoint all their friends. Their underlings have promised so many, that treachery is inevitable, and if they deceive some they may as well deceive all. Perhaps they may distribute a coronet or two among themselves: and I shall this year make three: and those are the only additions to the peerage which will occur for many years. You may rely on that. For the tories will make none, and I have some thoughts of retiring from business
You amaze me Mr Hatton. I could mention to you twenty members of Boodle's, at least, who believe they will be made peers the moment the tories come in
Not a man of them
Tell me one of their names, and I will tell you whether they will be made peers
Well then there is Mr Tubbe Sweete, a county member, and his son in parliament too -- I know he has a promise
I repeat to you, Sir Vavasour, the tories will not make a single peer; the candidates must come to me; and I ask you what can I do for a Tubbe Sweete, the son of a Jamaica cooper? Are there any old families among your twenty members of Brookes'
Why I can hardly say
there is Sir Charles Featherly, an old baronet
The founder a lord mayor in James the First's reign. That is not the sort of old family that I mean
Well there is Colonel Cockawhoop
The Cockawhoops are a very good family I have always heard
Contractors of Queen Anne: partners with Marlborough and Solomon Medina; a very good family indeed: but I do not make peers out of good families, Sir Vavasour; old families are the blocks out of which I cut my Mercurys
But what do you call an old family
Yours
We were in the first batch of baronets
Forget the baronets for a while
Tell me, what was your family before James the First
They always lived on their lands
I have a room full of papers that would perhaps tell us something about them. Would you like to see them
By all means: bring them all here. Not that I want them to inform me of your rights: I am fully acquainted with them. You would like to be a peer, sir. Well, you are really Lord Vavasour, but there is a difficulty in establishing your undoubted right from the single writ of summons difficulty. I will not trouble you with technicalities, Sir Vavasour: sufficient that the difficulty is great though perhaps not unmanageable. But we have no need of management. Your claim on the barony of Lovel is very good: I could recommend your pursuing it. did not another more inviting still present itself. In a word, if you wish to be Lord Bardolf, I will undertake to make you so, before, in all probability, Sir Robert Peel obtains office; and that I should think would gratify Lady Firebrace
Indeed it would
for if it had not been for this sort of a promise of a peerage made -- I speak in great confidence Mr Hatton -- made by Mr Taper, my tenants would have voted for the whigs the other day at the --- shire election, and the conservative candidate would have been beaten. Lord Masque had almost arranged it, but Lady Firebrace would have a written promise from a high quarter, and so it fell to the ground
Well we are independent of all these petty arrangements now
It is very wonderful
And what do you think our expenses will be in this claim
Bagatelle
Why a dozen years ago I have known men lay out nearly half a million in land and not get two per cent for their money, in order to obtain a borough influence which might ultimately obtain them a spick and span coronet; and now you are going to put one on your head, which will give you precedence over every peer on the roll, except three (and I made those), and it will not cost you a paltry twenty or thirty thousand pounds. Why I know men who would give that for the precedence alone.-- Here
Here is a case; a man you know, I dare say; an earl, and of a decent date as earls go: George the First. The first baron was a Dutch valet of William the Third. Well I am to terminate an abeyance in his favour through his mother, and give him one of the baronies of the Herberts. He buys off the other claimant who is already ennobled with a larger sum than you will expend on your ancient coronet. Nor is that all. The other claimant is of French descent and name; came over at the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. Well, besides the hush money, my client is to defray all the expense of attempting to transform the descendant of the silkweaver of Lyons into the heir of a Norman conqueror. So you see, Sir Vavasour, I am not unreasonable. Pah! I would sooner gain five thousand pounds by restoring you to your rights, than fifty thousand in establishing any of these pretenders in their base assumptions. I must work in my craft, Sir Vavasour, but I love the old English blood, and have it in my veins
I am satisfied, Mr Hatton
let no time be lost. All I regret is, that you did not mention all this to me before; and then we might have saved a great deal of trouble and expence
You never consulted me
You gave me your instructions, and I obeyed them. I was sorry to see you in that mind, for to speak frankly, and I am sure now you will not be offended, my lord, for such is your real dignity, there is no title in the world for which I have such a contempt as that of a baronet
Ah! my father
you remember Mr Franklin
This gentleman and myself had the pleasure of meeting yesterday
I explained yesterday to one who I hope I may still call my friend, why I assumed a name to which I have no right
I should be happy if you also would give me credit, in taking that step, at least for motives of which I need not be ashamed; even
even if you deemed my conduct indiscreet
I was told
that an impassable gulf divided the Rich from the Poor; I was told that the Privileged and the People formed Two Nations, governed by different laws, influenced by different manners, with no thoughts or sympathies in common; with an innate inability of mutual comprehension. I believed that if this were indeed the case, the ruin of our common country was at hand; I would have endeavoured, feebly perchance, but not without zeal, to resist such a catastrophe; I possessed a station which entailed on me some portion of its responsibility: to obtain that knowledge which could alone qualify me for beneficial action, I resolved to live without suspicion among my fellow-subjects who were estranged from me; even void of all celebrity as I am, I could not have done that without suspicion, had I been known; they would have recoiled from my class and my name, as you yourself recoiled, Sybil, when they were once accidentally mentioned before you. These are the reasons, these the feelings, which impelled, I will not say justified, me to pass your threshold under a feigned name. I entreat you to judge kindly of my conduct; to pardon me: and not to make me feel the bitterness that I have forfeited the good opinion of one for whom, under all circumstances and in all situations, I must ever feel the highest conceivable respect,-- I would say a reverential regard
My father, I am amazed; tell me, then, who is this gentleman who addresses me
The brother of Lord Marney, Sybil
The brother of Lord Marney
Yes
a member of that family of sacrilege, of those oppressors of the people, whom you have denounced to me with such withering scorn
I am sorry for my words; sorry for the pain I unconsciously gave you; sorry indeed for all that has past: and that my father has lost a pleasant friend
And why should he be lost
Why should we not still befriends
Oh, sir
I am one of those who believe the gulf is impassable. Yes
utterly impassable
This is Mr Hatton of whom we were speaking last night, and who claims to be an ancient acquaintance of yours
Perhaps I should rather say of your poor dear father
He was of great service to me in my youth, and one is not apt to forget such things
One ought not
but it is a sort of memory, as I have understood, that is rather rare. For my part I remember you very well, Baptist Hatton
This world has gone well with you, I am glad to hear and see
Qui laborat, orat
is the gracious maxim of our Holy Church; and I venture to believe my prayers and vigils have been accepted, for I have laboured in my time
Qui laborat, orat
is the privilege of the people
Of whom I am one
But is your labour, their labour
Is yours that life of uncomplaining toil wherein there is so much of beauty and of goodness, that by the fine maxim of our Church, it is held to include the force and efficacy of prayer
I am sure that I should complain of no toil that would benefit you
I was with him more than an hour
At first he recollected nothing: even the name of Gerard, though he received it as familiar to him, seemed to produce little impression; he recollected nothing of any papers; was clear that they must have been quite insignificant; whatever they were, he doubtless had them now, as he never destroyed papers: would order a search to be made for them, and so on. I was about to withdraw, when he asked me carelessly a question about your father; what he was doing, and whether he were married and had children. This led to a very long conversation in which he suddenly seemed to take great interest. At first he talked of writing to see your father, and I offered that Gerard should call upon him. He took down your direction in order that he might write to your father and give him an appointment; when observing that it was Westminster, he said that his carriage was ordered to go to the House of Lords in a quarter of an hour, and that if not inconvenient to me, he would propose that I should at once accompany him. I thought, whatever might be the result, it must be a satisfaction to Gerard at last to see this man of whom he has talked and thought so much -- and so we are here
You did well, good Stephen, as you always do
no one has so much forethought and so much energy as you
And this Egremont
how came he here? When we discovered him yesterday your father and myself agreed that we should not mention to you the -- the mystification of which we had been dupes
And you did wrong
There is no wisdom like frankness. Had you told me, he would not have been here today. He met and addressed me, and I only recognised an acquaintance who had once contributed so much to the pleasantness of our life. Had he not accompanied me to this door and met my father, which precipated an explanation on his part which he found had not been given by others, I might have remained in an ignorance which hereafter might have produced inconvenience
You are right
We have all of us opened ourselves too unreservedly before this aristocrat
I should hope that none of us have said to him a word that we wish to be forgotten
He chose to wear a disguise, and can hardly quarrel with the frankness with which we spoke of his order or his family. And for the rest, he has not been injured from learning something of the feelings of the people by living among them
And yet if anything were to happen to-morrow
rest assured this man has his eye on us. He can walk into the government offices like themselves and tell his tale, for though one of the pseudo-opposition, the moment the people move, the factions become united
And what could happen to-morrow, that we should care for the government being acquainted with it or us? Do not they know everything? Do not you meet in their very sight? You pursue an avowed and legal aim by legal means -- do you not? What then is there to fear? And why should anything happen that should make us apprehensive
All is very well at this moment
and all may continue well; but popular assemblies breed turbulent spirits, Sybil. Your father takes a leading part; he is a great orator, and is in his element in this clamorous and fiery life. It does not much suit me; I am a man of the closet. This Convention, as you well know, was never much .to my taste. Their Charter is a coarse specific for our social evils. The spirit that would cure our ills must be of a deeper and finer mood
Then why are you here
An easy question. Questions are always easy. The fact is, in active life one cannot afford to refine. I could have wished the movement to have taken a different shape and to have worked for a different end; but it has not done this. But it is still a movement and a great one, and I must work it for my end and try to shape it to my form. If I had refused to be a leader, I should not have prevented the movement; I should only have secured my own insignificance
But my father has not these fears; he is full of hope and exultation
And surely it is a great thing that the people should have their Parliament lawfully meeting in open day, and their delegates from the whole realm declaring their grievances in language which would not disgrace the conquering race which has in vain endeavoured to degrade them. When I heard my father speak the other night, my heart glowed with emotion; my eyes were suffused with tears; I was proud to be his daughter; and I gloried in a race of forefathers who belonged to the oppressed and not to the oppressors
But your father, Sybil, stands alone
surrounded by votaries who have nothing but enthusiasm to recommend them; and by emulous and intriguing rivals, who watch every word and action, in order that they may discredit his conduct, and ultimately secure his downfall
My father's downfall
Is he not one of themselves! And is it possible, that among the delegates of the People there can be other than one and the same object
A thousand
we have already as many parties as in St Stephen's itself
You terrify me
I knew we had fearful odds to combat against. My visit to this city alone has taught me how strong are our enemies. But I believed that we had on our side God and Truth
They know neither of them in the National Convention
Our career will be a vulgar caricature of the bad passions and the low intrigues, the factions and the failures, of our oppressors
You understand -- I have not the slightest doubt myself of your moral right: I believe on every principle of justice, that Mowbray Castle is as much yours as the house that is built by the tenant on the lord's land: but can we prove it? We never had the legal evidence. You are in error in supposing that these papers were of any vital consequence; mere memoranda; very useful no doubt: I hope I shall find them; but of no validity. If money were the only difficulty, trust me, it should not be wanting; I owe much to the memory of your father, my good Gerard; I would fain serve you -- and your daughter. I'll not tell you what I would do for you, my good Gerard. You would think me foolish; but I am alone in the world, and seeing you again, and talking of old times -- I really am scarcely fit for business. Go, however, I must; I have an appointment at the House of Lords. Good bye. I must say farewell to the Lady Sybil
You can't have that table, sir, it is engaged
It is always engaged
Who has taken it
Mr Hatton, sir
A strange day
Those infernal papers! They made my fortune -- and yet, I know not how it is, the deed has cost me many a pang. Yet it seemed innoxious! the old man dead -- insolvent; myself starving; his son ignorant of all, to whom too they could be of no use, for it required thousands to work them, and even with thousands they could only be worked by myself. Had I not done it, I should ere this probably have been swept from the surface of the earth, worn out with penury, disease, and heart-ache. And now I am Baptist Hatton with a fortune almost large enough to buy Mowbray itself, and with knowledge that can make the proudest tremble. "And for what object all this wealth and power? What memory shall I leave? What family shall I found? Not a relative in the world, except a solitary barbarian, from whom when, years ago I visited him as a stranger I recoiled with unutterable loathing. 

"Ah! had I a child -- a child like the beautiful daughter of Gerard
And I have deprived her of a principality! That seraphic being whose lustre even now haunts my vision; the ring of whose silver tone even now lingers in my ear. He must be a fiend who could injure her. I am that fiend. Let me see -- let me see
Let me see -- let me see. I could make her a baroness. Gerard is as much Baron Valence as Shrewsbury is a Talbot. Her name is Sybil. Curious how, even when peasants, the good blood keeps the good old family names! The Valences were ever Sybils. "I could make her a baroness. Yes! and I could give her wherewith to endow her state. I could compensate for the broad lands which should be hers, and which perhaps through me she has forfeited. 

"Could I do more? Could I restore her to the rank she would honour, assuage these sharp pangs of conscience, and achieve the secret ambition of my life? What if my son were to be Lord Valence? 

"Is it too bold? A chartist delegate -- a peasant's daughter. With all that shining beauty that I witnessed, with all the marvellous gifts that their friend Morley so descanted on,-- would she shrink from me? I'm not a crook-backed Richard. 

"I could proffer much: I feel I could urge it plausibly. She must be very wretched. With such a form, such high imaginings, such thoughts of power and pomp as I could breathe in her,-- I think she'd melt. And to one of her own faith, too! To build up a great Catholic house again; of the old blood, and the old names, and the old faith,-- by holy Mary it is a glorious vision
We come to you as early as possible my dear Arabella
You are always so good! Have you seen Charles? I was in hopes he would have come
He is at the House: otherwise I am sure he would have been here
I fear you will be sadly in want of beaus this evening, my love. We dined at the Duke of Fitz-Aquitaine's, and all our cavaliers vanished. They talk of an early division
I really wish all these divisions were over
They are very anti-social. Ah! here is Lady de Mowbray
sweetest love
My sweet child
you have no idea how unhappy Frederick is this evening, but he cannot leave the House, and I fear it will be a late affair
I do not think the division so important as is generally imagined. A defeat upon a question of colonial government does not appear to me of sufficient weight to dissolve a cabinet
Any defeat will do that now
but to tell you the truth I am not very sanguine. Lady Deloraine says they will be beat: she says the radicals will desert them; but I am not so sure. Why should the radicals desert them? And what have we done for the radicals? Had we indeed foreseen this Jamaica business, and asked some of them to dinner, or given a ball or two to their wives and daughters! I am sure if I had had the least idea that we had so good a chance of coming in, I should not have cared myself to have done something; even to have invited their women
But you are such a capital partisan, Lady St Julians
I have made great sacrifices
I went once and stayed a week at Lady Jenny Spinner's to gain her looby of a son and his eighty thousand a-year, and Lord St Julians proposed him at White's; and then after all the whigs made him a peer! They certainly make more of their social influences than we do. That affair of that Mr Trenchard was a blow. Losing a vote at such a critical time, when if I had had only a remote idea of what was passing through his mind, I would have even asked him to Barrowley for a couple of days
But is the pear ripe
The pear is ripe if we have courage to pluck it
but our fellows have no pluck
But do you think that the Duke of Wellington
Here he is
he will answer the question himself
You have not been to the Chamber
No
but I hear there is hot work. It will be late
Do you think
I think that in the long run everything will have an end
Ah
Bah
I remember that fellow -- a sort of equivocal attach, at Paris, when we were there with Monmouth at the peace: and now he is a quasi ambassador, and ribboned and starred to the chin
The only stars I have got
are four stars in India stock
it was in such good taste
Do you think
that Mr Mountchesney will bear away the prize
These great heiresses can never make up their minds. The bitter drop rises in all their reveries
And yet
I would just as soon be married for my money as my face
They will hardly go out without making some peers
Why they have made enough
Hem! I know Tubbe Swete has a promise, and so has Cockawhoop. I don't think Cockawhoop could show again at Boodle's without a coronet
I don't see why these fellows should go out
What does it signify whether ministers have a majority of five, or ten or twenty? In my time, a proper majority was a third of the House. That was Lord Liverpool's majority. Lord Monmouth used to say that there were ten families in this country who, if they could only agree, could always share the government. Ah! those were the good old times! We never had adjourned debates then; but sate it out like gentlemen who had been used all their lives to be up all night, and then supped at Watier's afterwards
Ah! my dear Ormsby
do not mention Watier's; you make my mouth water
Shall you stand for Birmingham, Ormsby, if there be a dissolution
I have been asked
but the House of Commons is not the House of Commons of my time, and I have no wish to re-enter it. If I had a taste for business, I might be a member of the Marylebone vestry
All I repeat
that if there be any idea that I wish Lady Marney should be a lady in waiting, it is an error, Lady Deloraine. I wish that to be understood. I am a domestic man, and I wish Lady Marney to be always with me; and what I want I want for myself. I hope in arranging the household the domestic character of every member of it will be considered. After all that has occurred the country expects that
But my dear George, I think it is really premature
I dare say it is; but I recommend you, my dear mother, to be alive. I heard Lady St Julians just now in the supper room asking the Duke to promise her that her Augustus should be a Lord of the Admiralty. She said the Treasury would not do, as there was no house, and that with such a fortune as his wife brought him he could not hire a house under a thousand a- year
He will not have the Admiralty
She looks herself to the Robes
Poor woman
Is it quite true
Quite
I can endure anything except Lady St Julian's glance of triumph
I really think if it were only to ease her Majesty from such an infliction, they ought to have held on
And must the household be changed
Do not look so serious
we are surrounded by the enemy
Will you be at home to-morrow early
As early as you please
Very well, we will talk then. Lady Charlotte has heard something; nous verrons
Courage; we have the Court with us, and the Country cares for nothing
It is all right
They are out. Lord Melbourne has been with the Queen and recommended her Majesty to send for the Duke
Are you sure
I tell you Sir Robert is on his road to the palace at this moment; I saw him pass, full-dressed
It is too much
Now what are we to do
We must not dissolve
We have no cry
As much cry as the other fellows
but no one of course would think of dissolution before the next registration. No, no; this is a very manageable Parliament, depend upon it. The malcontent radicals who have turned them out are not going to bring them in. That makes us equal. Then we have an important section to work upon -- the Sneaks, the men who are afraid of a dissolution. I will be bound we make a good working conservative majority of five-and-twenty out of the sneaks
With the Treasury patronage
fear and favour combined. An impending dissolution, and all the places we refuse our own men, we may count on the Sneaks
Then there are several religious men who have wanted an excuse for a long time to rat
We must get Sir Robert to make some kind of a religious move, and that will secure Sir Litany Lax and young Mr Salem
It will never do to throw over the Church Commission
Commissions and committees ought always to be supported
Besides it will frighten the saints
If we could get him to speak at Exeter Hall -- were it only a slavery meeting -- that would do
It is difficult
he must be pledged to nothing- -not even to the right of search. Yet if we could get up something with a good deal of sentiment and no principle involved; referring only to the past, but with his practised powers touching the present. What do you think of a monument to Wilberforce or a commemoration of Clarkson
There is a good deal in that
At present go about and keep our fellows in good humour. Whisper nothings that sound like something. But be discreet; do not let there be more than half a hundred fellows who believe they are going to be Under Secretaries of State. And be cautious about titles. If they push you, give a wink and press your finger to your lip. I must call here
This gentleman is my particular charge. I have been cooking him these three years. I had two notes from him yesterday, and can delay a visit no longer. The worst of it is, he expects that I shall bear him the non-official announcement of his being sent to Ireland, of which he has about as much chance as I have of being Governor-General of India. It must be confessed ours is critical work sometimes, friend Taper; but never mind -- what we have to do to individuals Peel has to with a nation, and therefore we ought not to complain
You may depend upon it
that nothing is to be done by delicacy. It is not delicacy that rules the House of Lords. What has kept us silent for years? Threats; and threats used in the most downright manner. We were told that if we did not conform absolutely and without appeal to the will and pleasure of one individual, the cards would be thrown up. We gave in; the game has been played, and won. I am not at all clear that it has been won by those tactics -- but gained it is; and now what shall we do? In my opinion it is high time to get rid of the dictatorship. The new ruse now for the palace is to persuade her Majesty that Peel is the only man who can manage the House of Lords. Well, then it is exactly the time to make certain persons understand that the House of Lords are not going to be tools any longer merely for other people. Rely upon it a bold united front at this moment would be a spoke in the wheel. We three form the nucleus; there are plenty to gather round. I have written to Marisforde; he is quite ripe. Lord Hounslow will be here to- morrow. The thing is to be done; and if we are not firm the grand conservative triumph will only end in securing the best posts both at home and abroad for one too powerful family
Who had never been heard of in the time of my father
Nor in the time of mine
Royal and Norman blood like ours
is not to be thrown over in that way
It is Tadpole; shall we have him in? I dare say he will tell us something
Lord Marney and Lord de Mowbray with the Duke of Fitz- Aquitaine
This looks like business and perhaps means mischief. Very lucky I called
What news from the palace, Tadpole
Sir Robert is there
That's good news
I don't pretend to be behind the scenes, duke; but it was said to me to-day, 'Tadpole, if you do chance to see the Duke of Fitz-Aquitaine you may say that positively Lord Killcroppy will not go to Ireland
You have heard of Lord Ribbonville
No; what
Can't live the day out. How fortunate Sir Robert is! Two garters to begin with
I don't pretend to be behind the scenes, my Lord
but it was said to me to-day, 'Tadpole, if you do chance to meet Lord Marney, you may say that positively Lord Rambrooke will not have the Buck- hounds
All I want
is to see men of character about her Majesty. This is a domestic country, and the country expects that no nobleman should take household office whose private character is not inexpugnable. Now that fellow Rambrooke keeps a French woman. It is not much known, but it is a fact
Dreadful
I have no doubt of it. But he has no chance of the Buck-hounds, you may rely on that. Private character is to be the basis of the new government. Since the Reform Act that is a qualification much more esteemed by the constituency than public services. We must go with the times, my Lord. A virtuous middle class shrink with horror from French actresses; and the Wesleyans -- the Wesleyans must be considered, Lord Marney
I always subscribe to them
Ah
I am glad to hear that. Nothing I have heard to-day has given me so much pleasure as those few words. One may hardly jest on such a subject
but I think I may say
I think I may say that those subscriptions will not be without their fruit
If you were ready to be conspirators when I entered the room, my Lords, you were at least prepared to be traitors when I quitted it
You are going to White's are you? If so take me
I am sorry, my dear Lord, but I have an appointment in the city. I have got to go to the Temple, and I am already behind my time
Very remarkable
Is it not
And your Lordship received this yesterday
Yesterday. I lost no time in communicating with you
Jubb and Jinks
A very respectable firm
That makes it more strange
It does
A respectable firm would hardly embark in such a proceeding without some show of pretext
Hardly
But what can they have
What indeed
Mr Walter Gerard without his pedigree is a mere flash in the pan; and I defy him to prove anything without the deed of '77
Well, he has not got that
Safe, of course
Certain. I almost wish I had burnt it as well as the whole box-full
Destroy that deed and the other muniments, and the Earl de Mowbray will never be Baron Valence
But what use are these deeds now
If we produce them, we may give a colour to this fellow's claim
Time will settle his claim
it will mature yours. You can wait
Alas! since the death of my poor boy
It has become doubly important. Substantiate the barony, it will descend to your eldest daughter, who, even if married, will retain your name. Your family will live, and ennobled. The Fitz-Warenes Lords Valence will yield to none in antiquity; and as to rank, as long as Mowbray Castle belongs to them, the revival of the earldom is safe at the first coronation, or the first ministry that exists with a balanced state of parties
That is the right view of the case
and what do you advise
Be calm, and you have nothing to fear. This is the mere revival of an old claim, too vast to be allowed to lapse from desuetude. Your documents you say are all secure
Be sure of that. They are at this moment in the muniment room of the great tower of Mowbray Castle; in the same iron box and in the same cabinet they were deposited
When, by placing them in your hands
I had the extreme satisfaction of confirming the rights and calming the anxieties of one of our ancient houses. I would recommend your lordship to instruct your lawyers to appear to this writ as a matter of course. But enter into no details, no unnecessary confidence with them. They are needless. Treat the matter lightly, especially to them. You will hear no more of it
You feel confidence
Perfect. Walter Gerard has no documents of any kind. Whatever his claim might be, good or bad, the only evidence that can prove his pedigree is in your possession and the only use to which it ever will be put, will be in due time to seat your grandson in the House of Lords
I am glad I called upon you
To be sure. Your lordship can speak to me without reserve, and I am used to these start-ups. It is part of the trade; but an old soldier is not to be deceived by such feints
Clearly a feint, you think
A feint! a feint
Good morning. I am glad I have called. How goes on my friend Sir Vavasour
Oh! I shall land him at last
Well, he is an excellent, neighbourly, man. I have a great respect for Sir Vavasour. Would you dine with me, Mr Hatton, on Thursday? It would give me and Lady de Mowbray great pleasure
Your lordship is extremely kind
but I am an hermit
But your friends should see you sometimes
Your lordship is too good, but I am a mere man of business and know my position. I feel I am not at home in ladies' society
Well then come to-morrow: I am alone, and I will ask some persons to meet you whom you know and like,-- Sir Vavasour and Lord Shaftesbury and a most learned Frenchman who is over here -- a Vicomte de Narbonne, who is very anxious to make your acquaintance. Your name is current I can tell you at Paris
Your lordship is too good; another day: I have a great pressure of affairs at present
Well, well; so be it. Good morning, Mr Hatton
In the same box and in the same cabinet: the muniment room in the great tower of Mowbray Castle! They exist and I know their whereabouts. I'll have 'em
It is true
Is it true
I heard it last night at Crockford's
one always hears things there four-and-twenty hours before other places
Is it true
hitch
Peel ought to have taken office
What are the women to us
Peel ought to have taken office
He should have remembered how much he owed to Ireland
Peel ought to have taken office
The garter will become now a mere party badge
I am an intruder
but I wish much to speak to you
You seemed to treat with scorn yesterday
the belief that sympathy was independent of the mere accidents of position. Pardon me, Sybil, but even you may be prejudiced
I should be sorry to treat anything you said with scorn
Many things happened yesterday
which might be offered as some excuse for an unguarded word
Would that it had been unguarded
I could have endured it with less repining. No, Sybil, I have known you, I have had the happiness and the sorrow of knowing you too well to doubt the convictions of your mind, or to believe that they can be lightly removed, and yet I would strive to remove them. You look upon me as an enemy, as a natural foe, because I am born among the privileged. I am a man, Sybil, as well as a noble
And can I not feel for men, my fellows, whatever be their lot? I know you will deny it; but you are in error, Sybil; you have formed your opinions upon tradition, not upon experience. The world that exists is not the world of which you have read; the class that calls itself your superior is not the same class as ruled in the time of your fathers. There is a change in them as in all other things, and I participate that change. I shared it before I knew you, Sybil; and if it touched me then, at least believe it does not influence me less now
If there be a change
it is because in some degree the People have learnt their strength
Ah! dismiss from your mind those fallacious fancies
The People are not strong; the People never can be strong. Their attempts at self-vindication will end only in their suffering and confusion. It is civilisation that has effected, that is effecting this change. It is that increased knowledge of themselves that teaches the educated their social duties. There is a dayspring in the history of this nation which those who are on the mountain tops can as yet perhaps only recognize. You deem you are in darkness, and I see a dawn. The new generation of the aristocracy of England are not tyrants, not oppressors, Sybil, as you persist in believing. Their intelligence, better than that, their hearts are open to the responsibility of their position. But the work that is before them is no holiday-work. It is not the fever of superficial impulse that can remove the deep-fixed barriers of centuries of ignorance and crime. Enough that their sympathies are awakened; time and thought will bring the rest. They are the natural leaders of the People, Sybil; believe me they are the only ones
The leaders of the People are those whom the People trust
And who may betray them
Betray them
And can you believe that my father
No, no; you can feel, Sybil, though I cannot express, how much I honour your father. But he stands alone in the singleness and purity of his heart. Who surround him
Those whom the People have also chosen; and from a like confidence in their virtues and abilities. They are a senate supported by the sympathy of millions, with only one object in view -- the emancipation of their race. It is a sublime spectacle, these delegates of labour advocating the sacred cause in a manner which might shame your haughty factions. What can resist a demonstration so truly national! What can withstand the supremacy of its moral power
Ah! not now for the first time, but for ever; from the moment I first beheld you in the starlit arch of Marney has your spirit ruled my being and softened every spring of my affections. I followed you to your home, and lived for a time content in the silent worship of your nature. When I came the last morning to the cottage, it was to tell, and to ask, all. Since then for a moment your image has never been absent from my consciousness; your picture consecrates my hearth and your approval has been the spur of my career. Do not reject my love; it is deep as your nature, and fervent as my own. Banish those prejudices that have embittered your existence, and if persisted in may wither mine. Deign to retain this hand! If I be a noble I have none of the accidents of nobility: I cannot offer you wealth, splendour, or power; but I can offer you the devotion of an entranced being -- aspirations that you shall guide -- an ambition that you shall govern
These words are mystical and wild
Love of me! Retain your hand and share your life and fortunes! You forget what I am. But though I learnt only yesterday what you are, I will not be so remiss. Once you wrote upon a page you were my faithful friend: and I have pondered over that line with kindness often. I will be your faithful friend; I will recall you to yourself. I will at least not bring you shame and degradation
O! Sybil, beloved, beautiful Sybil -- not such bitter words; no, no
No bitterness to you! that would indeed be harsh
Why what is this
An union between the child and brother of nobles and a daughter of the people! Estrangement from your family, and with cause, their hopes destroyed, their pride outraged; alienation from your order, and justly, all their prejudices insulted. You will forfeit every source of worldly content and cast off every spring of social success. Society for you will become a great confederation to deprive you of self- complacency. And rightly. Will you not be a traitor to the cause? No, no, kind friend, for such I'll call you. Your opinion of me, too good and great as I feel it, touches me deeply. I am not used to such passages in life; I have read of such. Pardon me, feel for me, if I receive them with some disorder. They sound to me for the first time -- and for the last. Perhaps they ought never to have reached my ear. No matter now -- I have a life of penitence before me, and I trust I shall be pardoned
You have indeed punished me for the fatal accident of birth, if it deprives me of you
Not so
I shall never be the bride of earth; and but for one whose claims though earthly are to me irresistible, I should have ere this forgotten my hereditary sorrows in the cloister
Believe me
the gulf is impassable
Terrible news from Birmingham
They have massacred the police, beat off the military, and sacked the town. News just arrived
I have known it these two hours
There is a cabinet sitting now
Well I always said so
our fellows ought to have put down that Convention
It is deuced lucky
that the Bedchamber business is over, and we are all right. This affair in the midst of the Jamaica hitch would have been fatal to us
These chartists evidently act upon a system
You see they were perfectly quiet till the National Petition was presented and debated; and now, almost simultaneously with our refusing to consider their petition, we have news of this outbreak
I hope they will not spread
There are not troops enough in the country if there be anything like a general movement. I hear they have sent the guards down by a special train, and a hundred more of the police. London is not over-garrisoned
They are always ready for a riot at Birmingham
Trade is very bad there and they suffer a good deal. But I should think it would not go farther
I am told
that business is getting slack in all the districts
It might be better
but they have got work
I am told
that the police were regularly smashed
Is it true that the military were really beat off
Quite untrue: the fact is there were no proper preparations; the town was taken by surprise, the magistrates lost their heads; the people were masters of the place; and when the police did act, they were met by a triumphant populace, who two hours before would have fled before them. They say they have burnt down above forty houses
It is a bad thing -- this beating the police
But what is the present state of affairs
Are the rioters put down
Not in the least
as I hear. They are encamped in the Bull Ring amid smoking ruins, and breathe nothing but havoc
Well, I voted for taking the National Petition into consideration
It could do us no harm, and would have kept things quiet
So did every fellow on our side
who was not in office or about to be. Well, Heaven knows what may come next. The Charter may some day be as popular in this club as the Reform Act
The oddest thing in that debate
was Egremont's move
I saw Marney last night at Lady St Julians
and congratulated him on his brother's speech. He looked daggers, and grinned like a ghoul
It was a very remarkable speech -- that of Egremont
I wonder what he wants
I think he must be going to turn radical
Why the whole speech was against radicalism
Ah, then he is going to turn whig, I suppose
He is ultra anti-whig
Then what the deuce is he
Not a conservative certainly, for Lady St Julians does nothing but abuse him
I suppose he is crotchetty
That speech of Egremont was the most really democratic speech that I ever read
How was it listened to
Oh capitally
He has very seldom spoken before and always slightly though well. He was listened to with mute attention; never was a better house. I should say made a great impression, though no one knew exactly what he was after
What does he mean by obtaining the results of the charter without the intervention of its machinery
He spoke throughout in an exoteric vein
and I apprehend was not very sure of his audience; but I took him to mean, indeed it was the gist of the speech, that if you wished for a time to retain your political power, you could only effect your purpose by securing for the people greater social felicity
Well, that is sheer radicalism
I fear, if that be radicalism
we must all take a leaf out of the same book. Sloane was saying at Boodle's just now that he looked forward to the winter in his country with horror
And they have no manufactures there
Sloane was always a croaker
He always said the New Poor Law would not act, and there is no part of the country where it works so well as his own
They say at Boodle's there is to be an increase to the army
ten thousand men immediately; decided on by the cabinet this afternoon
It could hardly have leaked out by this time
The cabinet were sitting less than an hour ago
They have been up a good hour
quite long enough for their decisions to be known in St James's Street. In the good old times, George Farnley used always to walk from Downing Street to this place the moment the council was up and tell us everything
Ah! those were the good old gentleman-like times
when members of Parliament had nobody to please and ministers of State nothing to do
Mowbray Phalanx
She wishes
to take the veil, and I only oppose it for a time, that she may have some knowledge of life and a clear conception of what she is about to do. I wish not that she should hereafter reproach her father. But, to my mind, Sybil is right. She cannot look to marriage: no man that she could marry would be worthy of her
This is a great, an unexpected pleasure indeed
I was reading your beautiful speech
Indeed
that is an honour,-- a pleasure,-- a reward, I never could have even hoped to have attained
By all
it must be read with pleasure, with advantage, but by me -- oh! with what deep interest
If anything that I said finds an echo in your breast
it will give me confidence for the future
Ah! why do not others feel like you
all would not then be hopeless
But you are not hopeless
But when we spoke last
you were full of confidence -- in your cause, and in your means
It is not very long ago
since we thus spoke, and yet time in the interval has taught me some bitter truths
Truth is very precious
to us all; and yet I fear I could not sufficiently appreciate the cause that deprived you of your sanguine faith
Alas
I was but a dreamer of dreams: I wake from my hallucination as others have done I suppose before me. Like them too I feel the glory of life has gone; but my content at least
has never rested I hope too much on this world
You are depressed, dear Sybil
I am unhappy. I am anxious about my father. I fear that he is surrounded by men unworthy of his confidence. These scenes of violence alarm me. Under any circumstances I should shrink from them, but I am impressed with the conviction that they can bring us nothing but disaster and disgrace
I honor your father
I know no man whose character I esteem so truly noble; such a just compound of intelligence and courage, and gentle and generous impulse. I should deeply grieve were he to compromise himself. But you have influence over him, the greatest, as you have over all. Counsel him to return to Mowbray
Can I give counsel
I who have been wrong in all my judgments? I came up to this city with him, to be his guide, his guardian. What arrogance! What short-sighted pride! I thought the People all felt as I feel; that I had nothing to do but to sustain and animate him; to encourage him when he flagged, to uphold him when he wavered. I thought that moral power must govern the world, and that moral power was embodied in an assembly whose annals will be a series of petty intrigues, or, what is worse, of violent machinations
Exert every energy
that your father should leave London, immediately; to-morrow, to-night if possible. After this business at Birmingham, the government must act. I hear that they will immediately increase the army and the police; and that there is a circular from the Secretary of State to the Lords Lieutenant of counties. But the government will strike at the Convention. The members who remain will be the victims. If your father return to Mowbray and be quiet, he has a chance of not being disturbed
An ignoble end of many lofty hopes
Let us retain our hopes
and cherish them
I have none
And I am sanguine
Ah! because you have made a beautiful speech. But they will listen to you, they will cheer you, but they will never follow you. The dove and the eagle will not mate; the lion and the lamb will not lie down together; and the conquerors will never rescue the conquered
You still will cherish these phantoms, dear Sybil! and why? They are not visions of delight. Believe me they are as vain as they are distressing. The mind of England is the mind ever of the rising race. Trust me it is with the People. And not the less so, because this feeling is one of which even in a great degree it is unconscious. Those opinions which you have been educated to dread and mistrust are opinions that are dying away. Predominant opinions are generally the opinions of the generation that is vanishing. Let an accident, which speculation could not foresee, the balanced state at this moment of parliamentary parties cease, and in a few years, more or less, cease it must, and you will witness a development of the new mind of England, which will make up by its rapid progress for its retarded action. I live among these men; I know their inmost souls; I watch their instincts and their impulses; I know the principles which they have imbibed, and I know, however hindered by circumstances for the moment, those principles must bear their fruit. It will be a produce hostile to the oligarchical system. The future principle of English politics will not be a levelling principle; not a principle adverse to privileges, but favourable to their extension. It will seek to ensure equality, not by levelling the Few but by elevating the Many
Here we must part
Heaven will guard over you
for you are a celestial charge
If you are going out, dear father, I should like to see you for one moment first
A moment, friends
with your leave
We are once more together, dear father; we will never again he separated
Something has happened to you, Sybil
No
not that; but something may happen to you
How so, my child
You are in danger
great and immediate. No matter at this moment how I am persuaded of this I wish no mysteries, but there is no time for details. The government will strike at the Convention; they are resolved. This outbreak at Birmingham has brought affairs to a crisis. They have already arrested the leaders there; they will seize those who remain here in avowed correspondence with them
If they arrest all who are in correspondence with the Convention
they will have enough to do
Yes; but you take a leading part
you are the individual they would select
Would you have me hide myself
just because something is going on besides talk
Besides talk
O! my father, what thoughts are these! It may be that words are vain to save us; but feeble deeds are vainer far than words
I do not see that the deeds, though I have nothing to do with them, are so feeble
their boasted police are beaten, and by the isolated movement of an unorganized mass. What if the outbreak had not been a solitary one? What if the people had been disciplined
What if everything were changed, if everything were contrary to what it is
The people are not disciplined; their action will not be, cannot be, coherent and uniform; these are riots in which you are involved, not revolutions; and you will be a victim, and not a sacrifice
We must not he scared at a few arrests, Sybil. These are hap-hazard pranks of a government that wants to terrify, but is itself frightened. I have not counselled, none of us have counselled, this stir at Birmingham. It is a casualty. We were none of us prepared for it. But great things spring from casualties. I say the police were beaten and the troops alarmed; and I say this was done without organization and in a single spot. I am as much against feeble deeds as you can be, Sybil; and to prove this to you, our conversation at the moment you arrived, was to take care for the future that there shall be none. Neither vain words nor feeble deeds for the future
Oh! my father, your child is most unhappy
Sybil
this is womanish weakness; I love, but must not share it
It may be womanish
but it is wise: for what should make us unhappy if not the sense of impending, yet unknown, danger
And why danger
Why mystery
Why are you ever pre-occupied and involved in dark thoughts, my father? It is not the pressure of business, as you will perhaps tell me, that occasions this change in a disposition so frank and even careless. The pressure of affairs is not nearly as great, cannot he nearly as great, as in the early period of your assembling, when the eyes of the whole country were on you, and you were in communication with all parts of it. How often have you told me that there was no degree of business which you found irksome? Now you are all dispersed and scattered: no discussions, no committees, little correspondence -- and you yourself are ever brooding and ever in conclave, with persons too who I know, for Stephen has told me so, are the preachers of violence: violence perhaps that some of them may preach, yet will not practise: both bad; traitors it may be, or, at the best, hare-brained men
Stephen is prejudiced
He is a visionary, indulging in impossible dreams, and if possible, little desirable. He knows nothing of the feeling of the country or the character of his countrymen. Englishmen want none of his joint-stock felicity; they want their rights,-- rights consistent with the rights of other classes, but without which the rights of other classes cannot, and ought not, to be secure
Stephen is at least your friend, my father; and once you honoured him
And do so now; and love him very dearly. I honour him for his great abilities and knowledge. Stephen is a scholar; I have no pretensions that way; but I can feel the pulse of a people, and can comprehend the signs of the times, Sybil. Stephen was all very well talking in our cottage and garden at Mowbray, when we had nothing to do; but now we must act, or others will act for us. Stephen is not a practical man; he is crotchety, Sybil, and that's just it
But violence and action
are they identical, my father
I did not speak of violence
No; but you looked it. I know the language of your countenance, even to the quiver of your lip. Action, as you and Stephen once taught me, and I think wisely, was to prove to our rulers by an agitation, orderly and intellectual, that we were sensible of our degradation; and that it was neither Christianlike nor prudent, neither good nor wise, to let us remain so. That you did, and you did it well; the respect of the world, even of those who differed from you in interest or opinion, was not withheld from you; and can be withheld from none who exercise the moral power that springs from great talents and a good cause. You have let this great moral power, this pearl of price
we cannot conceal it from ourselves, my father,-- you have let it escape from your hands
The season for words is past. I must be gone, dear Sybil
You shall not leave me
What would you, what would you
That we should quit this city to-night
What, quit my post
Why yours? Have not your colleagues dispersed? Is not your assembly formally adjourned to another town? Is it not known that the great majority of the delegates have returned to their homes? And why not you to yours
I have no home
I came here to do the business that was wanting, and, by the blessing of God, I will do it. I am no changeling, nor can I refine and split straws, like your philosophers and Morleys: but if the people will struggle, I will struggle with them; and die, if need be, in the front. Nor will I be deterred from my purpose by the tears of a girl
I thought you had gone
Not in anger, my sweet child
But you go
These men await me
Our council is of importance. We must take some immediate steps for the aid of our brethren in distress at Birmingham, and to discountenance similar scenes of outbreak as this affair: but the moment this is over, I will come back to you; and for the rest, it shall be as you desire; to-morrow we will return to Mowbray
Ah! Stephen
I thought it was my father
I should have been glad to have found him here
However with your permission I will enter
And he will soon arrive
I am sure he will soon arrive. I have been expecting him every minute
For hours
The business that he is on
The business that he is on is engrossing
Thank Heaven
we leave this place to-morrow
Hah
who told you so
My father has so settled it; has indeed promised me that we shall depart
And you were anxious to do so
Most anxious; my mind is prophetic only of mischief to him if we remain
Mine too. Otherwise I should not have come up today
You have seen him I hope
I have; I have been hours with him
I am glad. At this conference he talked of
Yes; at this headstrong council; and I have seen him since; alone. Whatever hap to him, my conscience is assoiled
You terrify me, Stephen
What can happen to him? What would he do, what would you resist? Tell me -- tell me, dear friend
Oh! yes
Oh! yes; dear friend
I said dear friend for so I deemed you
and so we have ever found you. Why do you stare at me so strangely, Stephen
So you deem me, and so you have ever found me
Well; what more would you have? What more should any of us want
I want no more
I warrant me, you do not. Well, well, nothing matters. And so
you are waiting for your father
Whom you have not long since seen
and whom you expected to find here
No
no, no. I didn't. I came to find you
You have something to tell me
Something has happened to my father. Do not break it to me; tell me at once
No, no, no; nothing has happened. Much may happen, but nothing has happened. And we may prevent it
We! Tell me what may happen; tell me what to do
Your father
Your father -- and my friend -- is in this position Sybil: he is conspiring against the State
Yes, yes
Tell me all
I will. He is conspiring, I say, against the State. Tonight they meet in secret to give the last finish to their plans; and tonight they will be arrested
O God
He told me truth
Who told you truth
A friend
a kind good friend. I met him but this morn, and he warned me of all this
Hah, hah
Hah, hah; he told you did he; the kind good friend whom you met this morning? Did I not warn you, Sybil, of the traitor? Did I not tell you to beware of taking this false aristocrat to your hearth; to worm out all the secrets of that home that he once polluted by his espionage, and now would desolate by his treason
Of whom and what do you speak
I speak of that base spy Egremont
You slander an honourable man
Mr Egremont has never entered this house since you met him here for the first time; save once
He needed no entrance to this house to worm out its secrets
That could be more adroitly done by one who had assignations at command with the most charming of its inmates
Unmannerly churl
Oh! yes. I am a churl
I know I am a churl. Were I a noble the daughter of the people would perhaps condescend to treat me with less contempt
The daughter of the people loves truth and manly bearing, Stephen Morley; and will treat with contempt all those who slander women, whether they be nobles or serfs
And where is the slanderer
Ask him who told you I held assignations with Mr Egremont or with any one
Mine eyes -- mine own eyes -- were my informant
This morn, the very morn I arrived in London, I learnt how your matins were now spent. Yes
I passed the gate of the gardens; I witnessed your adieus
We met by hazard
and in all probability we shall never meet again. Talk not of these trifles. Stephen; my father, how can we save him
Are they trifles
Are they indeed trifles, Sybil? Oh! make me credit that, and then
Pardon me, pardon me
Pardon the most miserable and the most devoted of men
What need of pardon, dear Stephen
In the agitated hour wild words escape. If I have used them, I regret; if you, I have forgotten
Ah
you told me how precious was time. What can we do
I can endure no longer the anguish of my life: I love you, and if you will not be mine, I care for no one s fate
I am not born for love
We are all born for love
It is the principle of existence, and its only end. And love of you, Sybil
has been to me for years the hoarded treasure of my life. For this I have haunted your hearth and hovered round your home; for this I have served your father like a slave, and embarked in a cause with which I have little sympathy, and which can meet with no success. It is your image that has stimulated my ambition, developed my powers, sustained me in the hour of humiliation, and secured me that material prosperity which I can now command. Oh! deign to share it; share it with the impassioned heart and the devoted life that now bow before you; and do not shrink from them, because they are the feelings and the fortunes of the People
You astound, you overwhelm me
You came for another purpose, we were speaking of other feelings; it is the hour of exigency you choose for these strange, these startling words
I also have my hour of exigency
and its minutes are now numbering. Upon it all depends
Another time
speak of these things another time
The caverns of my mind are open
and they will not close
Stephen
dear Stephen, I am grateful for your kind feelings: but indeed this is not the time for such passages: cease, my friend
I came to know my fate
It is a sacrilege of sentiment
to obtrude its expression on a daughter at such a moment
You would not deem it so if you loved, or if you could love me, Sybil
Why it's a moment of deep feeling, and suited for the expression of deep feeling. You would not have answered thus, if he who had been kneeling here had been named Egremont
He would not have adopted a course
so selfish, so indecent
Ah! she loves him
Stephen, be generous; speak to me of your friend
I have no friend
The Saints in heaven have mercy on me
for I am very wretched
No, no, no
not wretched; not that tone of anguish! What can I do? what say? Sybil, dearest Sybil, I love you so much, so fervently, so devotedly; none can love you as I do: say not you are wretched
Alas! alas
What shall I do? what say
You know what I would have you say
Speak of one who is my father, if no longer your friend: you know what I would have you do -- save him: save him from death and me from despair
I am ready
I came for that. Listen. There is a meeting to-night at half-past eight o'clock; they meet to arrange a general rising in the country: their intention is known to the government; they will be arrested. Now it is in my power, which it was not when I saw your father this morning, to convince him of the truth of this, and were I to see him before eight o'clock, which I could easily do, I could prevent his attendance, certainly prevent his attendance, and he would be saved; for the government depend much upon the papers, some proclamations, and things of that kind, which will be signed this evening, for their proofs. Well, I am ready to save Gerard, my friend, for so I'll call him as you wish it; one I have served before and long; one whom I came up from Mowbray this day to serve and save; I am ready to do that which you require; you yourself admit it is no light deed; and coming from one you have known so long, and, as you confess, so much regarded, should be doubly cherished; I am ready to do this great service; to save the father from death and the daughter from despair. -- if she would but only say to me, 'I have but one reward, and it is yours
I have read of something of this sort
this bargaining of blood, and shall I call it love? But that was ever between the oppressors and the oppressed. This is the first time that a child of the people has been so assailed by one of her own class, and who exercises his power from the confidence which the sympathy of their sorrows alone caused. It is bitter; bitter for me and mine -- but for you, pollution
Am I answered
Yes
in the name of the holy Virgin
Good night, then
Where do they meet to-night
I am bound to secrecy
There is no softness in your spirit
I am met with none
We have ever been your friends
A blossom that has brought no fruit
This hour will be remembered at the judgment-seat
The holy Virgin will perhaps interpose for me
We have merited this
who have taken an infidel to our hearts
If he had only been a heretic, like Egremont
Swear by the holy Virgin, swear by all the saints, swear by your hope of heaven and by your own sweet name; without equivocation, without reserve, with fulness and with truth, that you will never give your heart or hand to Egremont;-- and I will save your father
I swear that I will never give my hand to
And your heart, your heart
Omit not that. Swear by the holy oaths again you do not love him. She falters! Ah! she blushes
She loves him
Swear by the holy Virgin and by all the saints
What number. Ma'am
'Tis a coffee-house; I know not the number nor the name of him who keeps it. 'Tis a coffee-house. Can you see one? Look, look, I pray you! I am much pressed
Here's a coffee-house, Ma'am
How good you are! Yes; I will get out. You will wait for me, I am sure
All right
Poor young thing! she's wery anxious about summut
Now, Ma'am, if you please
Is Mr Gerard here
No. Ma'am; Mr Gerard has not been here to-day, nor yesterday neither
I should like to see the master of the house
Should you, Ma'am
Is there not one among you who will assist me
Hoity-toity
Well, what's the matter now
I wish to see the master of the house on business of urgency
to himself and to one of his friends, and his servant here will not even reply to my inquiries
I say, Saul, why don't you answer the young lady
So I did
Did you call for coffee, Ma'am
Here's Mr Tanner, if you want him, my dear
Tanner, here's a lady wants you
And a very pretty girl too
What's your pleasure
I wish to speak to you alone
'Tis about Walter Gerard I would speak to you
Well, you can step in here if you like
there's only my wife
Well, now what have you got to say
I wish to see Walter Gerard
Do you indeed
And
I come here that you may tell me where I may find him
I believe he lives somewhere in Westminster
that's all I know about him; and if this be all you had to say it might have been said in the coffee-room
It is not all that I have to say
and I beseech you, sir, listen to me. I know where Gerard lives: I am his daughter, and the same roof covers our heads. But I wish to know where they meet to-night -- you understand me
I don't know nothing about Gerard
except that he comes here and goes away again
The matter on which I would see him
is as urgent as the imagination can conceive, and it concerns you as well as himself; but if you know not where I can find him
'tis of no use
Stop
you can tell it to me
Why so? You know not where he is; you cannot tell it to him
I don't know that
Come, let's have it out; and if it will do him any good. I'll see if we can't manage to find him
I can impart my news to him and no one else
I am solemnly bound
You can't have a better counseller than Tanner
you had better tell us
I want no counsel; I want that which you can give me if you choose -- information. My father instructed me that if certain circumstances occurred it was a matter of the last urgency that I should see him this evening and before nine o'clock, I was to call here and obtain from you the direction where to find him; the direction
where they hold their secret council to-night
Hem
I see you're on the free-list. And pray how am I know you *are* Gerard's daughter
You do not doubt I am his daughter
Hem
I do not know that I do very much
And this news is very urgent
and concerns me you say
Concerns you all
and every minute is of the last importance
I should like to have gone with you myself, and then there could have been no mistake
How can I satisfy you
Perhaps the young person have got her mark on her linen
Have you got a handkerchief Ma'am
It seems to be the party
Well
you know St Martin's Lane I suppose? Well, you go up St Martin's Lane to a certain point, and then you will get into Seven Dials; and then you'll go on. However it is impossible to direct you; you must find your way. Hunt Street, going out of Silver Street, No. 22. 'Tis what you call a blind street, with no thoroughfare, and then you go down an alley. Can you recollect that
Fear not
No. 22 Hunt Street, going out of Silver Street. Remember the alley. It's an ugly neighbourhood; but you go of your own accord
Yes, yes. Good night
I can take you no further
my fare is three shillings
What am I to do
The best thing the young lady can do
is to stand something to us all
That's your time o'day
I'll drink your health with very great pleasure my dear
How much have you got there
No wiolence
we'll take the young lady to Mother Poppy's, and then we'll make a night of it
Hilloa
what's all this
Oh! that's it
the lady's respectable is she? Then I'd advise you and Hell Fire Dick to stir your chalks, Splinter-legs. Keep moving's the time of day, Madam; you get on. Come
And what do you want
We wants a ticket for the Mendicity Society
And so you want to go to Silver Street
Well; that's not very difficult now. Go a-head; take the second turning to your right, and the third to your left, and you're landed
I am going to Hunt Street
shall I show you the way
It is close at hand, I believe
Here it is
What is your house
No. 22: a printing-office
The very house I am going to
I am a printer
Here we are
This cannot be the house
O! holy Virgin aid me
And that's a blessed word to hear in this heathen land
If you be of our holy church
I beseech you, by everything we hold sacred, to aid me
And will I not
and I should like to see the arm that would hurt you
You are not a countrywoman I am thinking
No, but a sister in Christ
listen to me, good friend. I hasten to my father,-- he is in great danger,-- in Hunt Street,-- I know not my way,-- every moment is precious,-- guide me, I beseech you,-- honestly and truly guide me
Will I not? Don't you be afraid my dear. And her poor father is ill! I wish I had such a daughter! We have not far to go. You should have taken the next turning. We must walk up this again for 'tis a small street with no thoroughfare. Come on without fear
I say, Jim
I pity them ere jarvies a sitting on their boxes all the night and waiting for the nobs what is dancing. They as no repose
But they as porter
They takes their pot of half-and-half by turns, and if their name is called, the link what they subscribe for to pay, sings out 'here;' and that's the way their guvners is done
I think I should like to be a link Jim
I wish you may get it
it's the next best thing to a crossing: it's what every one looks to when he enters public life, but he soon finds 'taint to be done without a deal of interest. They keeps it to themselves, and never lets any one in unless he makes himself very troublesome and gets up a party agin 'em
I wonder what the nobs has for supper
Lots of kidneys I dare say
Oh! no; sweets is the time of day in these here blowouts: syllabubs like blazes, and snapdragon as makes the flunkys quite pale
I would thank you, sir, not to tread upon this child
Madam
I have bivouacked in many lands, but never with so young a comrade: I beg you a thousand pardons
Sir, you are very polite. These warm nights are a great blessing, but I am sure I know not what we shall do in the fall of the leaf
Take no thought of the morrow
It brings many changes
I am the Lord Mayor of the night
and I will have no row here. 'Tis the like of you that makes the beaks threaten to expel us from our lodgings
Where am I? What's all this
Oh! it's nothin
only a couple of unfortinate gals who've prigged a watch from a cove what was lushy and fell asleep under the trees between this and Kinsington
I wish they had not waked me
I walked as far as from Stokenchurch, and that's a matter of forty miles, this morning to see if I could get some work, and went to bed here without any supper. I'm blessed if I worn't dreaming of a roast leg of pork
It has not been a lucky day for me
I could not find a single gentleman's horse to hold, so help me, except one what was at the House of Commons, and he kept me there two mortal hours and said when he came out, that he would remember me next time. I ain't tasted no wittals to-day except some cat's-meat and a cold potatoe what was given me by a cabman; but I have got a quid here, and if you are very low I'll give you half
Where is Arabella
I want to present young Huntingford to her. He can be of great use to me, but he bores me so, I cannot talk to him. I want to present him to Arabella
Arabella is in the blue drawing-room. I saw her just now with Mr Jermyn and Charles. Count Soudriaffsky is teaching them some Russian tricks
What are Russian tricks to me; she must talk to young Huntingford; everything depends on his working with me against the Cut-and-Come-again branch-line; they have refused me my compensation, and I am not going to have my estate cut up into ribbons without compensation
My dear Lady Deloraine
How beautiful your gallery looks to-night! Certainly there is nothing in London that lights up so well
Its greatest ornaments are its guests. I am charmed to see Lady Joan looking so well
You think so
Indeed
I wish
What do you think of Mr Mountchesney
He is universally admired
So every one says, and yet
Well what do you think of the Dashville, Fitz
I saw you dancing with her
I can't bear her: she sets up to be natural and is only rude; mistakes insolence for innocence; says everything which comes first to her lips and thinks she is gay when she is only giddy
'Tis brilliant
When you are here
And yet a ball in a gallery of art is not in my opinion in good taste. The associations which are suggested by sculpture are not festive. Repose is the characteristic of sculpture. Do not you think so
Decidedly
We danced in the gallery at Matfield this Christmas, and I thought all the time that a gallery is not the place for a ball; it is too long and too narrow
I wonder if Valentine has sold that bay cob of his
I wonder
I wish you would ask him, Eugene
you understand, I don't want him to know I want it
'Tis such a bore to ask questions
Shall we carry Chichester
Oh! do not speak to me ever again of the House of Commons
What use is winning our way by units? It may take years. Lord Protocol says that 'one is enough.' That Jamaica affair has really ended by greatly strengthening them
I do not despair
The unequivocal adhesion of the Duke of Fitz-Aquitaine is a great thing. It gives us the northern division at a dissolution
That is to say in five years, my dear Lady Firebrace. The country will be ruined before that
We shall see. Is it a settled thing between Lady Joan and Mr Mountchesney
Not the slightest foundation. Lady Joan is a most sensible girl, as well as a most charming person and my dear friend. She is not in a hurry to marry, and quite right. If indeed Frederick were a little more steady -- but nothing shall ever induce me to consent to his marrying her, unless I thought he was worthy of her
You are such a good mother
and such a good friend! I am glad to hear it is not true about Mr Mountchesney
If you could only help me, my dear Lady Firebrace, to put an end to that affair between Frederick and Lady Wallington. It is so silly, and getting talked about; and in his heart too he really loves Lady Joan; only he is scarcely aware of it himself
We must manage it
Do, my dear creature; speak to him; he is very much guided by your opinion. Tell him everybody is laughing at him, and any other little thing that occurs to you
I will come directly
only let me see this
Well, I will bring Huntingford here. Mind you speak to him a great deal; take his arm, and go down to supper with him if you can. He is a very nice sensible young fellow, and you will like him very much I am sure; a little shy at first, but he only wants bringing out
This dreadful Lord Huntingford
Jermyn and I will intefere
and help you
No, no
I must do it
Your servant, Mr Egremont, is here and wishes to see you instantly
My servant! Instantly! What the deuce can be the matter? I hope the Albany is not on fire
A porter has brought this letter, sir, and I thought it best to come on with it at once
This letter must be instantly carried by the bearer to Mr Egremont wherever he may be
Do you see that
No! what
Do not look as if you observed them: Lord John and Mr Egremont, in the furthest window, they have been there these ten minutes in the most earnest conversation. I am afraid we have lost him
I have always been expecting it
He breakfasts with that Mr Trenchard and does all those sorts of things. Men who breakfast out are generally liberals. Have not you observed that? I wonder why
It shows a restless revolutionary mind
that can settle to nothing; but must be running after gossip the moment they are awake
Yes
I think those men who breakfast out or who give breakfasts are generally dangerous characters; at least, I would not trust them. The whigs are very fond of that sort of thing. If Mr Egremont joins them, I really do not see what shadow of a claim Lady Deloraine can urge to have anything
She only wants one thing
and we know she cannot have that
Why
Because Lady St Julians will have it
You are too kind
No, I assure you Lord Masque told me that her Majesty
Well
I do not think I am one who am likely to forget my friends
That I am sure you are not
Depend upon it
we must stick to the National Holiday: we can do nothing effectively, unless the movement is simultaneous. They have not troops to cope with a simultaneous movement, and the Holiday is the only machinery to secure unity of action. No work for six weeks, and the rights of Labour will be acknowledged
We shall never be able to make the people unanimous in a cessation of labour
The selfish instincts will come into play and will baulk our political object, while a great increase of physical suffering must be inevitable
It might be done
If the Unions were really to put their shoulder to the wheel, it might be done
And if it is not done
what do you propose? The people ask you to guide them. Shrink at such a conjuncture, and our influence over them is forfeited and justly forfeited
I am for partial but extensive insurrections
Sufficient in extent and number to demand all the troops and yet to distract the military movements. We can count on Birmingham again, if we act at once before their new Police Act is in force; Manchester is ripe; and several of the cotton towns; but above all I have letters that assure me that at this moment we can do anything in Wales
Glamorganshire is right to a man
All the north is seething
We must contrive to agitate the metropolis
We must have weekly meetings at Kennington and demonstrations at White Conduit House: we cannot do more here I fear than talk, but a few thousand men on Kennington Common every Saturday and some spicy resolutions will keep the Guards in London
Ay, ay
I wish the woollen and cotton trades were as bad to do as the iron, and we should need no holiday as you say, Wilkins. However it will come. In the meantime the Poor-law pinches and terrifies, and will make even the most spiritless turn
The accounts to-day from the north are very encouraging though
Stevens is producing a great effect, and this plan of our people going in procession and taking possession of the churches very much affects the imagination of the multitude
Ah
if we could only have the Church on our side, as in the good old days, we would soon put an end to the demon tyranny of Capital
And now
to our immediate business. Here is the draft of the projected proclamation of the Convention on the Birmingham outbreak. It enjoins peace and order, and counsels the people to arm themselves in order to secure both. You understand: that they may resist if the troops and the police endeavour to produce disturbance
Ay, ay
Let it be stout. We will settle this at once, and so get it out to-morrow. Then for action
But we must circulate this pamphlet of the Polish Count on the manner of encountering cavalry with pikes
'Tis printed
we have set it up on a broadside. We have sent ten thousand to the north and five thousand to John Frost. We shall have another delivery tomorrow. It takes very generally
And now
I shall to-morrow to the north, where I am wanted. But before I go I propose, as suggested yesterday, that we five together with Langley, whom I counted on seeing here to-night, now form ourselves into a committee for arming the people. Three of us are permanent in London; Wilkins and myself will aid you in the provinces. Nothing can be decided on this head till we see Langley, who will make a communication from Birmingham that cannot be trusted to writing. The seven o'clock train must have long since arrived. He is now a good hour behind his time
I hear foot-steps
He comes
What is this
Sybil
There is not an instant to lose: fly
fly
'Tis very strange
I feel queer
Methinks she looks like a heavenly messenger
I had no idea that earth had anything so fair
Hush friends
Tell me, my child, what is it
She is gone
Water
I feel queer
I will answer for Langley as for myself
and there is not another human being aware of our purpose
Except Morley
Yes: except Morley. But I should as soon doubt Gerard as Stephen Morley
Certainly
I cannot conceive how she traced me
I arrest you in the Queen's name
Resistance is vain
You are Walter Gerard, I presume
six foot two without shoes
Whoever I may he
I presume you will produce your warrant, friend, before you touch me
'Tis here. We want five of you, named herein, and all others that may happen to be found in your company
I shall obey the warrant
but this maiden, my daughter, knows nothing of this meeting or its purpose. She has but just arrived, and how she traced me I know not. You will let me recover her, and then permit her to depart
Can't let no one out of my sight found in this room
But she is innocent, even if we were guilty; she could be nothing else but innocent, for she knows nothing of this meeting and its business, both of which I am prepared at the right time and place to vindicate. She entered this room a moment only before yourself, entered and swooned
Can't help that; must take her; she can tell the magistrate anything she likes, and he must decide
Why you are not afraid of a young girl
I am afraid of nothing; but I must do my duty. Come we have no time for talk. I must take you both
By G -- d you shall not take her
You know, I find, my height: my strength does not shame my stature! Look to yourself. Advance and touch this maiden, and I will fell you and your minions like oxen at their pasture
You see
resistance is quite vain
For slaves and cravens, but not for us. I say you shall not touch her till I am dead at her feet. Now, do your worst
Well you are a queer chap
but I must do my duty. I shall give orders to my men to seize you, and if you resist them, I shall shoot you through the head
Stop
she moves. Do with us as you think fit, but you cannot be so harsh as to seize one that is senseless, and a woman
I must do my duty
Well, if you like, take steps to restore her, and when she has come to herself, she shall be moved in a hackney coach alone with her father
fly
I am ready
and I will carry her
I will write it at once
I followed your counsel; I entreated him to quit London this night. He pledged himself to do so on the morrow. "I learnt he was attending a secret meeting; that there was urgent peril. I tracked him through scenes of terror. Alas! I arrived only in time to be myself seized as a conspirator, and I have been arrested and carried a prisoner to Bow Street, where I write this. 

"I ask you not to interfere for him: that would be vain; but if I were free, I might at least secure him justice. But I am not free: I am to be brought up for public examination to- morrow, if I survive this night. 

"You are powerful; you know all; you know what I say is truth. None else will credit it. Save me
And now
all depends on your faith to me
Whoever he may be and wherever he may be
provided the person to whom this letter is addressed is within possible distance, fear not it shall reach him
I will seal and address it then
THE HON. CHARLES EGREMONT M.P
Are you up? It cannot be more than five o'clock. If you open the window we shall catch cold; but I will rise and help you to dress
They are stirring early
Hush, I shall be back directly
I cannot make it out; some one has arrived
Some one has arrived
Is it unusual
for persons to arrive at this hour
Yes
They never bring them from the stations until the office opens. I cannot make it out. Hush
You may dry your eyes my dear. There is nothing like a friend at court; there's a warrant from the Secretary of State for your release
No, no
Is he here
What the Secretary of State
No, no! I mean is any one here
There is a coach waiting for you at the door with the messenger from the office, and you are to depart forthwith. My husband is here, it was he who knocked at the door. The warrant came before the office was opened
My father! I must see him
You must not stay
you must be off immediately. I will tell all to your father. And take a hint; this affair may be bailable or it may not be. I can't give an opinion, but it depends on the evidence. If you have any good man you know -- I mean a householder long established and well to do in the world -- I advise you to lose no time in looking him up. That will do your father much more good than saying good bye and all that sort of thing
Here's a go
What do you think of this
It's the beginning of the end
The deuce
We must see Warner
and call a meeting of the people on the Moor for to-morrow evening. I will draw up some resolutions. We must speak out; we must terrify the Capitalists
I am all for a strike
Tisn't ripe
But that's what you always say, Dusty
I watch events
If you want to be a leader of the people you must learn to watch events
But what do you mean by watching events
Do you see Mother Carey's stall
I should think I did; and what's more, Julia owes her a tick for herrings
Right
and nothing but herrings are to be seen on her board. Two years ago it was meat
I twig
Wait till it's wegetables; when the people can't buy even fish. Then we will talk about strikes. That's what I call watching events
Mick
we want to go to the Temple
I wish you may get it
When you have learnt to watch events, Julia, you will understand that under present circumstances the Temple is no go
And why so, Dandy
Do you see Mother Carey's stall
When there's a tick at Madam Carey's there is no tin for Chaffing Jack. That's what I call watching events
Oh! as for the tin
in these half-time days that's quite out of fashion. But they do say it's the last night at the Temple, for Chaffing Jack means to shut up, it does not pay any longer; and we want a lark. I'll stand treat; I'll put my earrings up the spout -- they must go at last, and I would sooner at any time go to my uncle's for frolic than woe
I am sure I should like very much to go to the Temple if any one would pay for me
but I won't pawn nothing
If we only pay and hear them sing
Very like
there's nothing that makes one so thirsty as listening to a song, particularly if it touches the feelings. Don't you remember, Dusty, when we used to encore that German fellow in 'Scots wha ha.' We always had it five times. Hang me if I wasn't blind drunk at the end of it
I tell you what, young ladies
you're dancing on a volcano
Oh! my
I am sure I wish we were; though what you mean exactly I don't quite know
I mean that we shall all soon be slaves
Not if we get the Ten-Hour Bill
And no cleaning of machinery in meal time
that is a shame
You don't know what you are talking about
I tell you, if the Capitalists put down Gerard we're done for another ten years, and by that time we shall be all used up
Lor! Dusty, you quite terrify one
It's a true bill though. Instead of going to the Temple we must meet on the Moor, and in as great numbers as possible. Go you and get all your sweethearts. I must see your father, Harriet; he must preside. We will have the hymn of Labour sung by a hundred thousand voices in chorus. It will strike terror into the hearts of the Capitalists. This is what we must all be thinking of if we wish Labour to have a chance, not of going to Chaffing Jack's and listening to silly songs. D'ye understand
Don't we
and for my part for a summer eve I prefer Mowbray Moor to all the Temples in the world, particularly if it's a sociable party and we have some good singing
Fear God and honour the King
I fear I am disturbing an article
By no means: the day of labour is not at hand. I am very pleased to see you
My quarters are not very inviting
It is remarkable what bad accommodation you find in these great trading towns. I should have thought that the mercantile traveller had been a comfortable animal -- not to say a luxurious; but I find everything mean and third-rate. The wine execrable. So I thought I would come and bestow my tediousness on you. 'Tis hardly fair
You could not have pleased me better. I was, rather from distraction than from exigency, throwing some thoughts on paper. But the voice of yesterday still lingers in my ear
What a spectacle
Yes; you see what a multitude presents who have recognised the predominance of Moral Power
The spectacle was august; but the results to which such a public mind must lead are sublime
It must have been deeply gratifying to our friend
It will support him in his career
And console him in his prison
You think that it will come to that
It has that aspect; but appearances change
What should change them
Time and accident, which change everything
Time will bring the York Assizes
and as for accident I confess the future seems to me dreary. What can happen for Gerard
He might win his writ of right
His writ of right! I thought that was a feint -- a mere affair of tactics to keep the chance of the field
I believe the field may be won
Won
Ay! the castle and manor of Mowbray and half the lordships round, to say nothing of this good town. The people are prepared to be his subjects; he must give up equality and be content with being a popular sovereign
You jest my friend
Then I speak truth in jest; sometimes, you know, the case
What mean you
for though I have often observed you like a biting phrase, you never speak idly. Tell me what you mean
I mean
that the documents are in existence which prove the title of Walter Gerard to the proprietorship of this great district; that I know where the documents are to be found; and that it requires nothing but a resolution equal to the occasion to secure them
Should that be wanting
I should think not
It would belie our nature to believe so
And where are these documents
In the muniment room of Mowbray castle
Hah
Kept closely by one who knows their value, for they are the title deeds not of his right but of his confusion
And how can we obtain them
By means more honest than those they were acquired by
They are not obvious
Two hundred thousand human beings yesterday acknowledged the supremacy of Gerard
Suppose they had known that within the walls of Mowbray Castle were contained the proofs that Walter Gerard was the lawful possessor of the lands on which they live; I say suppose that had been the case. Do you think they would have contented themselves with singing psalms? What would have become of moral power then? They would have taken Mowbray Castle by storm; they would have sacked and gutted it; they would have appointed a chosen band to rifle the round tower; they would have taken care that every document in it, especially an iron chest painted blue and blazoned with the shield of Valence, should have been delivered to you, to me, to any one that Gerard appointed for the office. And what could be the remedy of the Earl de Mowbray? He could scarcely bring an action against the hundred for the destruction of the castle, which we would prove was not his own. And the most he could do would be to transport some poor wretches who had got drunk in his plundered cellars and then set fire to his golden saloons
You amaze me
'Tis a practical view of the case
Are you certain of your facts
Quite so; Lord de Mowbray informed me of the circumstances himself before I left London, and I came down here in consequence
You know him
No one better
And these documents -- some of them I suppose
were once in your own possession then
Possibly. Would they were now! But it is a great thing to know where they may be found
Then they once were the property of Gerard
Hardly that. They were gained by my own pains, and often paid for with my own purse. Claimed by no one, I parted with them to a person to whom they were valuable. It is not merely to serve Gerard that I want them now, though I would willingly serve him. I have need of some of these papers with respect to an ancient title, a claim to which by a person in whom I am interested they would substantiate. Now listen, good friend Morley; moral force is a fine thing especially in speculation, and so is a community of goods especially when a man has no property, but when you have lived as long as I have and have tasted of the world's delight, you'll comprehend the rapture of acquisition, and learn that it is generally secured by very coarse means. Come, I have a mind that you should prosper. The public spirit is inflamed here; you are a leader of the people. Let us have another meeting on the Moor, a preconcerted outbreak; you can put your fingers in a trice on the men who will do our work. Mowbray Castle is in their possession; we secure our object. You shall have ten thousand pounds on the nail, and I will take you back to London with me besides and teach you what is fortune
I understand you
You have a clear brain and a bold spirit; you have no scruples, which indeed are generally the creatures of perplexity rather than of principle. You ought to succeed
We ought to succeed you mean
for I have long perceived that you only wanted opportunity to mount
Yesterday was a great burst of feeling occasioned by a very peculiar cause
but it must not mislead us. The discontent here is not deep. The people are still employed, though not fully. Wages have fallen, but they must drop more. THE PEOPLE are not ripe for the movement you intimate. There are thousands who would rush to the rescue of the castle. Besides there is a priest here, one St Lys, who exercises a most pernicious influence over the people. It will require immense efforts and great distress to root him out. No; it would fail
Then we must wait awhile
or devise some other means
'Tis a very impracticable case
There is a combination for every case
Ponder and it comes. This seemed simple; but you think, you really think it would not answer
At this moment, not; that is my conviction
Well suppose instead of an insurrection we have a burglary. Can you assist me to the right hands here
Not I indeed
What is the use then of this influence over the people of which you and Gerard are always talking? After yesterday I thought here you could do anything
We have not hitherto had the advantage of your worldly knowledge; in future we shall be wiser
Well then
we must now think of Gerard's defence. He shall have the best counsel. I shall retain Kelly specially. I shall return to town to-morrow morning. You will keep me alive to the state of feeling here, and if things get more mature drop me a line and I will come down
This conversation had better not be mentioned to Gerard
That is obvious; it would only disturb him. I did not preface it by a stipulation of confidence because that is idle. Of course you will keep the secret; it is your interest; it is a great possession. I know very well you will be most jealous of sharing it. I know it is as safe with you as with myself
He is right
he knows human nature well. The secret is safe. I will not breathe it to Gerard. I will treasure it up. It is knowledge; it is power: great knowledge, great power. And what shall I do with it? Time will teach me
Another week
and we shall be prorogued. You can surely keep the country quiet for another week
I cannot answer for the public peace for another four-and- twenty hours
This business at Manchester must be stopped at once; you have a good force there
Manchester is nothing; these are movements merely to distract. The serious work is not now to be apprehended in the cotton towns. The state of Staffordshire and Warwickshire is infinitely more menacing. Cheshire and Yorkshire alarm me. The accounts from Scotland are as bad as can be. And though I think the sufferings of '39 will keep Birmingham and the Welch collieries in check, we cannot venture to move any of our force from those districts
You must summon a council for four o'clock. I have some deputations to receive which I will throw over; but to Windsor I must go. Nothing has yet occurred to render any notice of the state of the country necessary in the speech from the Throne
Not yet
but what will to-morrow bring forth
After all it is only a turn-out. I cannot recast her Majesty's speech and bring in rebellion and closed mills, instead of loyalty and a good harvest
It would be a bore. Well, we will see to-morrow
And now for these deputations
of all things in the world I dislike a deputation. I do not care how much I labour in the Closet or the house; that's real work; the machine is advanced. But receiving a deputation is like sham marching: an immense dust and no progress. To listen to their views! As if I did not know what their views were before they stated them! And to put on a countenance of respectful candour while they are developing their exploded or their impracticable systems. Were it not that at a practised crisis, I permit them to see conviction slowly stealing over my conscience, I believe the fellows would never stop. I cannot really receive these deputations. I must leave them to Hoaxem
Well, Mr Hoaxem
there are some deputations I understand, to-day. You must receive them, as I am going to Windsor. What are they
There are only two, sir, of moment. The rest I could easily manage
And these two
In the first place, there is our friend Colonel Bosky, the members for the county of Calfshire, and a deputation of tenant farmers
Pah
These must be attended to. The members have made a strong representation to me that they really cannot any longer vote with government unless the Treasury assists them in satisfying their constituents
And what do they want
Statement of grievances; high taxes and low prices; mild expostulations and gentle hints that they have been thrown over by their friends; Polish corn, Holstein cattle, and British income tax
Well you know what to say
Tell them generally that they are quite mistaken; prove to them particularly that my only object has been to render protection more protective, by making it practical and divesting it of the surplusage of odium; that no foreign corn can come in at fifty-five shillings; that there are not enough cattle in all Holstein to supply the parish of Pancras daily with beef-steaks; and that as for the income tax, they will be amply compensated for it by their diminished cost of living through the agency of that very tariff of which they are so superficially complaining
Their diminished cost of living
Would not that assurance, I humbly suggest, clash a little with my previous demonstration that we had arranged that no reduction of prices should take place
Not at all; your previous demonstration is of course true, but at the same time you must impress upon them the necessity of general views to form an opinion of particular instances. As for example a gentleman of five thousand pounds per annum pays to the income tax, which by the bye always call property tax, one hundred and fifty pounds a year. Well, I have materially reduced the duties on eight hundred articles. The consumption of each of those articles by an establishment of five thousand pounds per annum cannot be less than one pound per article. The reduction of price cannot be less than a moiety; therefore a saving of four hundred per annum; which placed against the deduction of the property tax leaves a clear increase of income of two hundred and fifty pounds per annum; by which you see that a property tax in fact increases income
I see
And what am I to say to the deputation of the manufacturers of Mowbray complaining of the great depression of trade, and the total want of remunerating profits
You must say exactly the reverse
Show them how much I have done to promote the revival of trade. First of all in making provisions cheaper; cutting off at one blow half the protection on corn, as for example at this moment under the old law the duty on foreign wheat would have been twenty-seven shillings a quarter; under the new law it is thirteen. To be sure no wheat could come in at either price, but that does not alter the principle. Then as to live cattle, show how I have entirely opened the trade with the continent in live cattle. Enlarge upon this, the subject is speculative and admits of expensive estimates. If there be any dissenters on the deputation who having freed the negroes have no subject left for their foreign sympathies, hint at the tortures of the bullfight and the immense consideration to humanity that instead of being speared at Seville, the Andalusian Toro will probably in future be cut up at Smithfield. This cheapness of provisions will permit them to compete with the foreigner in all neutral markets, in time beat them in their own. It is a complete compensation too for the property tax, which impress upon them is a great experiment and entirely for their interests. Ring the changes on great measures and great experiments till it is time to go down and make a house. Your official duties of course must not be interfered with. They will take the hint. I have no doubt you will get through the business very well, Mr Hoaxem, particularly if you be 'frank and explicit;' that is the right line to take when you wish to conceal your own mind and to confuse the minds of others. Good morning
I do not know what the Duke means by marching into the disturbed districts
These are disturbed districts. There have been three fires in one week, and I want to know what disturbance can be worse than that? In my opinion this is a mere anti-corn-law riot to frighten the government; and suppose they do stop the mills -- what then? I wish they were all stopped, and then one might live like a gentleman again
I suppose he finds society a bore
I am sure I do; but then what is a fellow to do? I am not in Parliament like Egremont. I believe, after all, that's the thing; for I have tried everything else and everything else is a bore
I think one should marry like Alfred Mountchesney
But what is the use of marrying if you do not marry a rich woman -- and the heiresses of the present age will not marry. What can be more unnatural! It alone ought to produce a revolution. Why, Alfred is the only fellow who has made a coup; and then he has not got it down
She behaved in a most unprincipled manner to me -- that Fitz- Warene
always took my bouquets and once made me write some verses
By Jove
I should like to see them. What a bore it must have been to write verses
I only copied them out of Mina Blake's album: but I sent them in my own handwriting
I have seen a many things in my time Mrs Trotman
but I never see any like this. I think I ought to know Mowbray if any one does, for man and boy I have breathed this air for a matter of half a century. I sucked it in when it tasted of primroses, and this tavern was a cottage covered with honeysuckle in the middle of green fields, where the lads came and drank milk from the cow with their lasses; and I have inhaled what they call the noxious atmosphere, when a hundred chimneys have been smoking like one; and always found myself pretty well. Nothing like business to give one an appetite. But when shall I feel peckish again, Mrs Trotman
The longest lane has a turning they say, Mr Trotman
Never knew anything like this before
and I have seen bad times: but I always used to say, 'Mark my words friends, Mowbray will rally.' My words carried weight, Mrs Trotman, in this quarter, as they naturally should, coming from a man of my experience,-- especially when I gave tick. Every man I chalked up was of the same opinion as the landlord of the Cat and Fiddle, and always thought that Mowbray would rally. That's the killing feature of these times, Mrs Trotman, there's no rallying in the place
I begin to think it's the machines
Nonsense
it's the corn laws. The town of Mowbray ought to clothe the world with our resources. Why Shuffle and Screw can turn out forty mile of calico per day; but where's the returns? That's the point. As the American gentleman said who left his bill unpaid, 'Take my breadstuffs and I'll give you a cheque at sight on the Pennsylvanian Bank
Who's there
Nothing in my way
Ah! Mrs Carey
is that you
My mortal self, Mr Trotman, tho' I be sure I feel more like a ghost than flesh and blood
You may well say that Mrs Carey; you and I have known Mowbray as long I should think as any in this quarter
And never see such times as these Mr Trotman, nor the like of such. But I always thought it would come to this; everything turned topsy-turvy as it were, the children getting all the wages, and decent folk turned adrift to pick up a living as they could. It's something of a judgment in my mind, Mr Trotman
It's the trade leaving the county, widow, and no mistake
And how shall we bring it back again
the police ought to interfere
We must have cheap bread
So they tell me
but whether bread be cheap or dear don't much signify, if we have nothing to buy it with. You don't want anything in my way, neighbour? It's not very tempting I fear
Well, we will take a pound for the sake of trade, widow
And here's a glass of gin and water, widow
and when Mowbray rallies you shall come and pay for it
Thank you both very kindly
a good neighbour as our minister says, is the pool of Bethesda; and as you say, Mowbray will rally
I never said so
Don't go about for to say that I said Mowbray would rally. My words have some weight in this quarter widow; Mowbray rally! Why should it rally? Where's the elements
Where indeed
there is not the spirit of a louse in Mowbray
That's a true bill
Is there another white-livered town in the whole realm where the operatives are all working half-time, and thanking the Capitalists for keeping the mills going, and only starving them by inches
That's your time of day
Very glad to see you, gentlemen
pray be seated. There's a little baccy left yet in Mowbray, and a glass of twist at your service
Nothing exciseable for me
Well it ayn't exactly the right ticket, Mrs Trotman, I believe
but 'pon my soul I am so thirsty, that I'll take Chaffing Jack at his word
Well Jack
I suppose you have heard the news
If it be anything that has happened at Mowbray, especially in this quarter, I should think I had. Times must be very bad indeed that some one does not drop in to tell me anything that has happened and to ask my advice
It's nothing to do with Mowbray
Thank you kindly, Mrs Trotman
and here's your very good health
Then I am in the dark
for I never see a newspaper now except a week old, and that lent by a friend, I who used to take my Sun regular, to say nothing of the Dispatch, and Bell's Life. Times is changed, Mr Radley
You speak like a book, Mr Trotman
and here's your very good health. But as for newspapers, I'm all in the dark myself, for the Literary and Scientific is shut up, and no subscribers left, except the honorary ones, and not a journal to be had except the Moral World and that's gratis
As bad as the Temple
it's all up with the institutions of the country. And what then is the news
Labour is triumphant in Lancashire
The deuce it is
What, have they raised wages
No
but they have stopped the mills
That won't mend matters much
Won't it
The working classes will have less to spend than ever
And what will the Capitalists have to spend
Worse and worse
you will never get institutions like the Temple re-opened on this system
Don't you be afraid Jack
if we only get our rights, won't we have a blowout
We must have a struggle
and teach the Capitalists on whom they depend, so that in future they are not to have the lion's share, and then all will be right
A fair day's wage for a fair day's work
that's your time of day
It began at Staleybridge
and they have stopped them all; and now they have marched into Manchester ten thousand strong. They pelted the police
And cheered the red-coats like blazes
The soldiers will fraternise
Do what
Stick their bayonets into the Capitalists who have hired them to cut the throats of the working classes
The Queen is with us
It's well known she sets her face against gals working in mills like blazes
Well this is news
I always thought some good would come of having a woman on the throne
And now that we are alone
the question is what are we to do here; and we came to consult you, Jack, as you know Mowbray better than any living man. This thing will spread. It won't stop short. I have had a bird too singing something in my ear these two days past. If they do not stop it in Lancashire, and I defy them, there will be a general rising
I have seen a many things in my time
some risings and some strikes, and as stiff turn-outs as may be. But to my fancy there is nothing like a strike in prosperous times; there's more money sent under those circumstances than you can well suppose, young gentlemen. It's as good as Mowbray Staty any day
But now to the point
The people are regularly sold; they want a leader
Why there's Gerard
never been a better man in my time. And Warner -- the greatest man the Handlooms ever turned out
Ay, ay
but they have each of them had a year and a half, and that cools blood
Besides
they are too old; and Stephen Morley has got round them, preaching moral force and all that sort of gammon
I never heard that moral force won the battle of Waterloo
I wish the Capitalists would try moral force a little, and see whether it would keep the thing going. If the Capitalists will give up their red-coats, I would be a moral force man to-morrow
And the new police
A pretty go when a fellow in a blue coat fetches you the Devil's own con on your head and you get moral force for a plaister
Why, that's all very well
but I am against violence -- at least much. I don't object to a moderate riot provided it is not in my quarter of the town
Well that's not the ticket now
We don't want no violence; all we want is to stop all the mills and hands in the kingdom, and have a regular national holiday for six weeks at least
I have seen a many things in my time
but I have always observed that if the people had worked generally for half time for a week they would stand anything
That's a true bill
Their spirit is broken
or else they never would have let the Temple have been shut up
And think of our Institute without a single subscriber
The gals is the only thing what has any spirit left. Julia told me just now she would go to the cannon's mouth for the Five Points any summer day
You think the spirit can't be raised, Chaffing Jack
You ought to be a judge
If I don't know Mowbray who does? Trust my word, the house won't draw
Then it is U-P
Hush
But suppose it spreads
It won't spread
I've seen a deal of these things. I fancy from what you say it's a cotton squall. It will pass, Sir. Let me see the miners out and then I will talk to you
Stranger things than that have happened
Then things get serious
Them miners is very stubborn, and when they gets excited ayn't it a bear at play, that's all
Well
what you say is well worth attention; but all the same I feel we are on the eve of a regular crisis
No, by jingo
I don't think I can stand this much longer
This living in the country in August bores me to extinction. I think we will go to Baden, Joan
But papa is so anxious, dearest Alfred, that we should remain here at present and see the neighbours a little
I might be induced to remain here to please your father, but as for your neighbours I have seen quite enough of them. They are not a sort of people that I ever met before, or that I wish to meet again. I do not know what to say to them, nor can I annex an idea to what they say to me. Heigho! certainly the country in August is a thing of which no one who has not tried it has the most remote conception
But you always used to say you doted on the country, Alfred
So I do; I never was happier than when I was at Melton, and even enjoyed the country in August when I was on the Moors
But I cannot well go to Melton
I don't see why you can't. Mrs Shelldrake goes with her husband to Melton, and so does Lady Di with Barham; and a very pleasant life it is
Well, at any rate we cannot go to Melton now
and it is impossible for me to go to the Moors
No, but I could go
and leave you here. I might have gone with Eugene de Vere and Milford and Fitz-heron. They wanted me very much. What a capital party it would have been, and what capital sport we should have had! And I need not have been away for more than a month or perhaps six weeks, and I could have written to you every day and all that sort of thing
I wonder where Maud is
I shall want her to ride with me to-day. She is a capital horsewoman, and always amuses me. As you cannot ride now, Joan, I wish you would let Maud have Sunbeam
As you please
Well I am going to the stables and will tell them. Who is this
Come here, Joan, and tell me who this is
It is the livery of the Bardolfs
I always call them Firebrace; I cannot get out of it
Well, I am glad it is they; I thought it might be an irruption of barbarians. Lady Bardolf will bring us some news
And you continue quiet here
And I am told we shall keep so
I am sorry for poor Lady St Julians
It must be such a disappointment, and she has had so many; but I understand there is nobody to blame but herself. If she had only left the Prince alone, but she would not be quiet
And where are the Deloraines
They are at Munich; with which they are delighted. And Lady Deloraine writes me that Mr Egremont has promised to join them there. If he do, they mean to winter at Rome
Somebody said he was going to be married
His mother wishes him to marry
but I have heard nothing
How delightful in the country in August to meet somebody that you have seen in London in June
Now, dear Lady Bardolf do tell me something, for you can conceive nothing so triste as we are here. We never get a letter. Joan only corresponds with philosophers and Maud with clergymen; and none of my friends ever write to me
Perhaps you never write to them
Well, I never have been a letter writer; because really I never wanted to write or to be written to. I always knew what was going on because I was on the spot; I was doing the things that people were writing letters about -- but now not being in the world any longer, doing nothing, living in the country -- and the country in August -- I should like to receive letters every day, but I do not know who to fix upon as a correspondent. Eugene de Vere will not write, Milford cannot; and as for Fitz-heron he is so very selfish, he always wants his letters answered
That is very unreasonable
Besides what can they tell me at this moment? They have gone to the Moors and are enjoying themselves. They asked me to go with them, but I could not go, because you see I could not leave Joan; though why I could not leave her, I really cannot understand, because Egerton has got some moors this year, and he leaves Lady Augusta with her father
Yes
but I thought Joan was going with you, and that you would be shopping
It was a good thing our House was adjourned before these disturbances in Lancashire
The best thing we can all do is to be on our estates I believe
My neighbour Marney is in a great state of excitement
all his yeomanry out
But he is quiet at Marney
In a way; but these fires puzzle us. Marney will not believe that the condition of the labourer has anything to do with them; and he certainly is a very acute man. But still I don't know what to say to it. The poor-law is very unpopular in my parish. Marney will have it, that the incendiaries are all strangers hired by the anti-Corn-law League
Ah! here is Lady Joan
My dearest Lady Joan
Why Joan
Maud has been to Mowbray, and heard the most delicious singing. Why did we not go
I did mention it to you, Alfred
I remember you said something about going to Mowbray, and that you wanted to go to several places. But there is nothing I hate so much as shopping. It bores me more than anything. And you are so peculiarly long when you are shopping. But singing, and beautiful singing in a Catholic chapel by a woman; perhaps a beautiful woman, that is quite a different thing, and I should have been amused, which nobody seems ever to think of here. I do not know how you find it, Lady Bardolf, but the country to me in August is a something
And you did not see this singer
I did not, but they tell me she is most beautiful; something extraordinary; I tried to see her, but it was impossible
Is she a professional singer
I should imagine not; a daughter of one of the Mowbray people I believe
Let us have her over to the Castle, Lady de Mowbray
If you like
Well at last I have got something to do
I will ride over to Mowbray, find out the beautiful singer, and bring her to the Castle
Yes, I mourn over them
the deep convictions that made me look forward to the cloister as my home. Is it that the world has assoiled my soul? Yet I have not tasted of worldly joys; all that I have known of it has been suffering and tears. They will return, these visions of my sacred youth, dear friend, tell me that they will return
I too have had visions in my youth, Sybil, and not of the cloister, yet am I here
And what should I infer
That my visions were of the world, and brought me to the cloister, and that yours were of the cloister and have brought you to the world
My heart is sad
and the sad should seek the shade
It is troubled, my child, rather than sorrowful
Yes, my child
the world has taught you that there are affections which the cloister can neither satisfy nor supply. Ah! Sybil, I too have loved
No, no, no
Yes, it is his spirit that hovers over your life, Sybil; and in vain you would forget what haunts your heart. One not less gifted than him; as good, as gentle, as gracious; once too breathed in my ear the accents of joy. He was, like myself, the child of an old house, and Nature had invested him with every quality that can dazzle and can charm. But his heart was as pure, and his soul as lofty, as his intellect and frame were bright
Speak on
The dreams of by-gone days
the wild sorrows than I can recall, and yet feel that I was wisely chastened. He was stricken in his virtuous pride, the day before he was to have led me to that altar where alone I found the consolation that never fails. And thus closed some years of human love, my Sybil
The world for a season crossed their fair current, and a power greater than the world forbade their banns; but they are hallowed; memory is my sympathy; it is soft and free, and when he came here to enquire after you, his presence and agitated heart recalled the past
It is too wild a thought
ruin to him, ruin to all. No, we are severed by a fate as uncontrollable as severed you dear friend; ours is a living death
The morrow is unforeseen
Happy indeed would it be for me, my Sybil, that your innocence should be enshrined within these holy walls, and that the pupil of my best years, and the friend of my serene life, should be my successor in this house. But I feel a deep persuasion that the hour has not arrived for you to take the step that never can be recalled
You are troubled, my father
Only a little restless. I am thinking what a mistake it was to have moved in '39
Ah! you were right, Sybil
affairs were not ripe. We should have waited three years
Three years
are affairs riper now
The whole of Lancashire is in revolt
There is not a sufficient force to keep them in check. If the miners and colliers rise, and I have cause to believe that it is more than probable they will move before many days are past,-- the game is up
You terrify me
On the Contrary
the news is good enough; I'll not say too good to be true, for I had it from one of the old delegates who is over here to see what can be done in our north countree
Yes
He came to the works; we had some talk. There are to be no leaders this time, at least no visible ones. The people will do it themselves. All the children of Labour are to rise on the same day, and to toil no more, till they have their rights. No violence, no bloodshed, but toil halts, and then our oppressors will learn the great economical truth as well as moral lesson, that when Toil plays Wealth ceases
When Toil ceases the People suffer
That is the only truth that we have learnt, and it is a bitter one
Can we be free without suffering
Is the greatest of human blessings to be obtained as a matter of course; to be plucked like fruit, or seized like a running stream? No, no: we must suffer, but we are wiser than of yore,-- we will not conspire. Conspiracies are for aristocrats, not for nations
Alas, alas! I see nothing but woe
I cannot believe that after all that has passed, the people here will move: I cannot believe that after all that has passed, all that you, that we, have endured, that you, my father, will counsel them to move
I counsel nothing
It must be a great national instinct that does it: but if all England, if Wales, if Scotland won't work, is Mowbray to have a monopoly
Ah! that's a bitter jest
England, Wales, Scotland will be forced to work as they were forced before. How can they subsist without labour? And if they could, there is an organised power that will subdue them
The Benefit Societies, the Sick and Burial Clubs
I'll go back and pray that all this is wild talk
After all that has passed, were it only for your child, you should not speak, much less think, this, my father. What havoc to our hearts and homes has been all this madness! It has separated us; it has destroyed our happy home; it has done more than this
Nay, nay, my child
one cannot weigh one's words before those we love. I can't hear of the people moving with coldness -- that's out of nature; but I promise you I'll not stimulate the lads here. I am told they are little inclined to stir. You found me in a moment of what I must call I suppose elation; but I hear they beat the red-coats and police at Staley Bridge, and that pricked my blood a bit. I have been ridden down before this when I was a lad, Sybil, by Yeomanry hoofs. You must allow a little for my feelings
Come in
I was down in this part of the world on business
and thought I would come over here for a day to find you all out
And where do you think I accidentally paid a visit a day or two back? At Mowbray Castle. I see you are surprised. I saw all your friends. I did not ask his Lordship how the writ of right went on. I dare say he thinks 'tis all hushed. But he is mistaken. I have learnt something which may help us over the stile yet
Well-a-day
I once thought if I could get back the lands the people would at last have a friend; but that's past. I have been a dreamer of dreams often when I was overlooking them at work. And so we all have I suppose. I would willingly give up my claim if I could be sure the Lancashire lads will not come to harm this bout
'Tis a more serious business
than any thing of the kind that has yet happened. The government are much alarmed. They talk of sending the Guards down into the north, and bringing over troops from Ireland
Poor Ireland
Well, I think the frieze-coats might give us a helping hand now, and employ the troops at least
No, my dear father, say not such things
Sybil will not let me think of these matters friend Hatton
Well, I suppose it's not in my way, at least I certainly did not make the best hand of it in '39; but it was London that got me into that scrape. I cannot help fancying that were I on our Moors here a bit with some good lads it might be different, and I must say so, I must indeed, Sybil
But you are very quiet here I hope
Oh! yes
I believe our spirit is sufficiently broken at Mowbray. Wages weekly dropping, and just work enough to hinder sheer idleness; that sort of thing keeps the people in very humble trim. But wait a bit, and when they have reached the starvation point I fancy we shall hear a murmur
I remember our friend Morley in '39, when we returned from London, gave me a very good character of the disposition of the people here
I hope it continues the same. He feared no outbreak then, and the distress in '39 was severe
Well
the wages have been dropping ever since. The people exist, but you can scarcely say they live. But they are cowed I fancy. An empty belly is sometimes as apt to dull the heart as inflame the courage. And then they have lost their leaders, for I was away you see, and have been quiet enough since I came out; and Warner is broken: he has suffered more from his time than I did; which is strange, for he had his pursuits; whereas I was restless enough, and that's the truth, and had it not been for Sybil's daily visit I think, though I may never be allowed to live in a castle, I should certainly have died in one
And how is Morley
Right well; the same as you left him: I saw not a straw's change when I came out. His paper spreads. He still preaches moral force, and believes that we shall all end in living in communities. But as the only community of which I have personal experience is a gaol, I am not much more inclined to his theory than heretofore
It can't last
It comes to this
Natur has her laws, and this is one; a fair day's wage for a fair day's work
I wish you may get it
with a harder stint every week and a shilling a day knocked off
And what's to come to-morrow
The butty has given notice to quit in Parker's field this day se'nnight. Simmons won't drop wages, but works half time
The boys will be at play afore long
Hush
play is a very serious word. The boys are not to go to play as they used to do without by your leave or with your leave. We must appoint a committee to consider the question and we must communicate with the other trades
You're the man, Master Nixon, to choose for churchwarden
What is Diggs doing
A-dropping wages and a-raising tommy like fun
There is a great stir in Hell-house yard
They say that all the workshops will be shut to-morrow; not an order for a month past. They have got a top-sawyer from London there who addresses them every evening, and says that we have a right to four shillings a day wages, eight hours' work and two pots of ale
A fair day's wage for a fair day's work
I would not stickle about hours, but the money and the drink are very just
If Hell-house yard is astir
there will be a good deal to be seen yet
It's grave
What think you of a deputation there? It might come to good
I should like to hear the top-sawyer from London
We had a Chartist here the other day, but he did not understand our case at all
I heard him
but what's his Five Points to us? Why he ayn't got tommy among them
Nor long stints
Nor butties
He's a pretty fellow to come and talk to us
He had never been down a pit in all his life
My missus told it me at the pit-head when she brought me my breakfast
It is not ten mile
They'll be here by noon
There is a good deal to do in their way
All men at work after notice to be ducked, they say, and every engine to be stopped forthwith
Will the police meet them before they reach this
There is none: my missus says that not a man John of them is to be seen. The Hell-cats as they call themselves halt at every town and offer fifty pounds for a live policeman
I'll tell you what
I'll stop my stint and go up the shaft. My heart's all of a flutter, I can't work no more. We'll have a fair day's wage for a fair day's work yet
Come along, I'm your man; if the doggy stop us, we'll knock him down. The People must have their rights; we're driven to this, but if one shilling a day is dropped, why not two
A fair day's wage for a fair day's work
Master Joseph they say has gone to the North
I wonder if old Diggs is at home
He won't show I'll be sworn
Here are the Hell-cats
Well I do declare they march like reglars; two, four, six, twelve; a good score at the least
It's very awful
It's what I always dreamt would come to pass
ever since Master Joseph cut my poor baby over the eye with his three foot rule
I think there can be nobody within
Old Diggs would never leave the tommy without a guard
Now lads
'Twas Master Joseph
'Twas Master Joseph
'Twas Master Joseph
Sure enough
I saw his ugly face
More frightful than the great gun
I hope the children will get out of the way
for he is sure to fire on them
What his good friends wanted there
We have come to settle Sam Barlow's tommy book
Our shop is not open to-day my good friends: the account can stand over; far be it from me to press the poor
Master Diggs
canst thou tell us the price of bacon to-day
Well, good bacon
may be eightpence a-pound
Thou are wrong Master Diggs
'tis fourpence and long credit. Let us see half a dozen good flitches at fourpence, Master Diggs; and be quick
'Tis the tenpence a-pound flitch
I have paid as much for very green stuff
And now Master Diggs
what is the price of the best tea a-pound? We be good customers, and mean to treat our wives and sweethearts here. I think we must order half a chest
It's as good as a grand tommy day
He has got the tommy book
Life's a tumbleabout thing of ups and downs
but I have been down this time longer than I can ever remember
Nor ever will get up, Widow
unless we have the Five Points
I will never marry any man who is not for the Five Points
I should be ashamed to marry any one who had not the suffrage
He is no better than a slave
I don't like these politics
they bayn't in a manner business for our sex
And I should like to know why
Ayn't we as much concerned in the cause of good government as the men? And don't we understand as much about it? I am sure the Dandy never does anything without consulting me
It's fine news for a summer day
to say we can't understand politics with a Queen on the throne
She has got her ministers to tell her what to do
Poor innocent young creature, it often makes my heart ache to think how she is beset
Over the left
If the ministers try to come into her bed-chamber, she knows how to turn them to the right about
And as for that
why are we not to interfere with politics as much as the swell ladies in London
Don't you remember, too, at the last election here
how the fine ladies from the Castle came and canvassed for Colonel Rosemary
Ah
I must say I wish the Colonel had beat that horrid Muddlefist. If we can't have our own man, I am all for the Nobs against the Middle Class
We'll have our own man soon, I expect
If the people don't work, how are the aristocracy to pay the police
Only think
Why, at your time of life, my dears, we never even heard of these things, much less talked of them
I should think you didn't, widow, and because why
because there was no march of mind then. But we know the time of day now as well as any of them
Lord, my dear
what's the use of all that? What we want is, good wages and plenty to do; and as for the rest, I don't grudge the Queen her throne, nor the noblemen and gentlemen their good things. Live and let live say I
Why, you are a regular oligarch, widow
Well, Miss Harriet
tisn't calling your neighbours names that settles any question. I'm quite sure that Julia will agree to that, and Caroline too. And perhaps I might call you something if I chose, Miss Harriet; I've heard things said before this, that I should blush to say, and blush to hear too. But I won't demean myself, no I won't. Holly-hock, indeed! Why holly- hock
Well young ladies
A-swelling the receipt of customs by the consumption of Congo! That won't do, Julia; it won't, indeed. Ask Dusty. If you want to beat the enemy, you must knock up the revenue. How d'ye do, widow
The same to you, Dandy Mick. We is deploring the evils of the times here in a neighbourly way
Oh, the times will soon mend
Well, so I think
for when things are at the worst, they always say
Why in a sense, Julia, in a certain sense, you are right; but there are two senses to everything, my girl
'Tis genteel
You remember it at the Circus
I wonder when we shall have the Circus again
Not with the present rate of wages
It's very hard
that the Middle Class are always dropping our wages. One really has no amusements now. How I do miss the Temple
We'll have the Temple open again before long
That will be sweet
I often dream of that foreign nobleman who used to sing, 'Oh, no, we never
Well, I cannot make out what puts you in such spirits, Mick
You told me only this morning that the thing was up, and that we should soon be slaves for life; working sixteen hours a day for no wages, and living on oatmeal porridge and potatoes, served out by the millocrats like a regular Bastile
But, as Madam Carey says, when things are at the worst
Oh! I did say it
surely, because you see, at my years, I have seen so many ups and downs, though I always say
Come, Dusty
you are more silent than ever. You won't take a dish I know: but tell us the news, for I am sure you have something to say
I should think we had
I am sure it's Shuffle and Screw going to work half time
I always said so
It's something to put down the people
I suppose the Nobs have met, and are going to drop wages again
I think Dusty is going to be married
Not at this rate of wages I should hope
I should think not
You are a sensible woman, Mrs Carey. And I don't know exactly what you mean, Miss Caroline
But Dusty
now what is it
Why, I thought you all knew
Now, now
I hate suspense. I like news to go round like a fly-wheel
Well
this is Saturday, young women, and Mrs Carey too, you will not deny that
I should think not
by the token I kept a stall for thirty year in our market, and never gave it up till this summer, which makes me always think that, though I have seen many ups and downs, this
Well, what has Saturday to do with us
for neither Dandy Mick nor you can take us to the Temple, or any other genteel place, since they are all shut from the Corn Laws, or some other cause or other
I believe it's the machines more than the Corn Laws that have shut up the Temple
Machines, indeed! Fancy preferring a piece of iron or wood to your own flesh and blood. And they call that Christianlike
It is Saturday
sure enough; and if I don't lie in bed to-morrow till sunset, may I get a bate ticket for every day for a week to come
Well, go it my hearty
It is Saturday, that they have all agreed
And to-morrow is Sunday
And the next day is the blackest day in all the week
When I hear the factory bell on Monday morning, I feel just the same as I did when I crossed with my uncle from Liverpool to Seaton to eat shrimps. Wasn't I sick coming home, that's all
You won't hear that bell sound next Monday
You don't mean that
Why, what's the matter
Is the Queen dead
No bell on Monday morning
Not a single ring if all the Capitalists in Mowbray were to pull together at the same rope
What can it be
Come, Mick; Dusty is always so long telling us anything
Why we are going to have the devil's own strike
A strike
I hope they will destroy the machines
And open the Temple
or else it will be very dull
I have seen a many strikes
but as Chaffing Jack was saying to me the other day
Chaffing Jack be hanged
Such a slow coach won't do in these high-pressure times. We are going to do the trick and no mistake. There shan't be a capitalist in England who can get a day's work out of us, even if he makes the operatives his junior partners
I never heard of such things
It's all booked, though
We'll clean out the Savings' Banks; the Benefits and Burials will shell out. I am treasurer of the Ancient Shepherds, and we passed a resolution yesterday unanimously, that we would devote all our funds to the sustenance of Labour in this its last and triumphant struggle against Capital
Lor
I think it will be very jolly
As long as you can give us money, I don't care, for my part, how long we stick out
Well
I didn't think there was so much spirit in the place. As Chaffing Jack was saying the other day
There is no spirit in the place
but we mean to infuse some. Some of our friends are going to pay you a visit to-morrow
And who may they be
To-morrow is Sunday
and the miners mean to say their prayers in Mowbray Church
Well, that will be a shindy
It's a true bill, though
This time to-morrow you will have ten thousand of them in this town, and if every mill and work in it and ten mile round is not stopped, my name is not MICK RADLEY
It's very odd
you can't get coffee anywhere
Now try that
you won't find that so bad
Does the town continue pretty quiet
Quite quiet I believe, Sir; but a great many people in the streets. All the mills are stopped
Well, this is a strange business
You had no idea of it when I met you on Saturday
None; on the contrary, I felt convinced that there were no elements of general disturbance in this district. I thought from the first that the movement would be confined to Lancashire and would easily be arrested; but the feebleness of the government, the want of decision, perhaps the want of means, have permitted a flame to spread the extinction of which will not soon be witnessed
Do you mean that
Whenever the mining population is disturbed the disorder is obstinate. On the whole they endure less physical suffering than most of the working classes, their wages being considerable; and they are so brutalized that they are more difficult to operate on than our reading and thinking population of the factories. But when they do stir there is always violence and a determined course. When I heard of their insurrection on Saturday I was prepared for great disturbances in their district, but that they should suddenly resolve to invade another country as it were, the seat of another class of labour, and where the hardships however severe are not of their own kind, is to me amazing, and convinces me that there is some political head behind the scenes, and that this move, however unintentional on the part of the miners themselves, is part of some comprehensive scheme which, by widening the scene of action and combining several counties and classes of labour in the broil, must inevitably embarrass and perhaps paralyse the Government
You remember a conversation we once had, the eve of my departure from Mowbray in '39
I do
The miners were not so ready then
They were not
Well they are here now
They are
You saw them enter yesterday
I was sorry I missed it, but I was taking a walk with the Gerards up Dale to see the cottage where they once lived, and which they used to talk of so much! Was it a strong body
I should say about two thousand men, and as far as bludgeons and iron staves go, armed
A formidable force with no military to encounter them
Irresistible, especially with a favourable population
You think the people were not grieved to see them
Certainly. Left alone they might have remained quiet; but they only wanted the spark. We have a number of young men here who have for a long time been murmuring against our inaction and what they call want of spirit. The Lancashire strike set them all agog; and had any popular leader, Gerard for example or Warner, resolved to move, they were ready
The times are critical
Lord de Mowbray had no idea of all this. I was with him on my way here, and found him quite tranquil. I suppose the invasion of yesterday has opened his eyes a little
What can he do
It is useless to apply to the Government. They have no force to spare. Look at Lancashire; a few dragoons and rifles hurried about from place to place and harassed by night service; always arriving too late, and generally attacking the wrong point, some diversion from the main scheme. Now we had a week ago some of the17 th Lancers here. They have been marched into Lancashire. Had they remained the invasion would never have occurred
You haven't a soldier at hand
Not a man; they have actually sent for a party of 73d from Ireland to guard us. Mowbray may be burnt before they land
And the castle too
These are indeed critical times Mr Morley. I was thinking when walking with our friend Gerard yesterday, and hearing him and his charming daughter dilate upon the beauties of the residence which they had forfeited, I was thinking what a strange thing life is, and that the fact of a box of papers belonging to him being in the possession of another person who only lives close by, for we were walking through Mowbray woods
Let him come up
he will give us some news perhaps
Ah! Field
is it you
You are surprised to see me
A friend
speak as you like
Our great man, the leader and liberator of the people
who has carried all before him, and who I verily believe will carry all before him, for Providence has given him those superhuman energies which can alone emancipate a race, wishes to confer with you on the state of this town and neighbourhood. It has been represented to him that no one is more knowing and experienced than yourself in this respect; besides as the head of our most influential organ in the Press, it is in every way expedient that you should see him. He is at this moment below giving instructions and receiving reports of the stoppage of all the country works, but if you like I will bring him up here, we shall be less disturbed
By all means
By all means
Stop
have you seen Gerard
No
I wrote to him some time back, but his reply was not encouraging. I thought his spirit was perhaps broken
You know that he is here
I concluded so, but we have not seen him; though to be sure, we have seen so many, and done so much since our arrival yesterday, it is not wonderful. By the bye, who is this blackcoat you have here, this St Lys? We took possession of the church yesterday on our arrival, for it's a sort of thing that pleases the miners and colliers wonderfully, and I always humour them. This St Lys preached us such a sermon that I was almost afraid at one time the game would be spoiled. Our great man was alarmingly taken by it, was saying his prayers all day and had nearly marched back again: had it not been for the excellence of the rum and water at our quarters, the champion of the Charter would have proved a pious recreant
St Lys will trouble you
Alas! for poor human nature, when violence can only he arrested by superstition
Come don't you preach
The Charter is a thing the people can understand, especially when they are masters of the country; but as for moral force, I should like to know how I could have marched from Wodgate to Mowbray with that on my banner
Wodgate
that's a queer place
Wodgate
what Wodgate is that
Don't tell me of your private rooms; who is master here I should like to know
I tell you I want him. He's my Lord Chancellor and Prime Minister, my head and principal Doggy; I can't go on without him. Well, what do you think
here's a pretty go! They won't stop the works at the big country mill you were talking of. They won't, won't they? Is my word the law of the land or is it not? Have I given my commands that all labour shall cease till the Queen sends me a message that the Charter is established, and is a man who has a mill, to shut his gates upon my forces, and pump upon my people with engines? There shall be fire for this water
We will enquire into this, Sir
and we will take the necessary steps
We will enquire into this and we will take the necessary steps
Would the Liberator like to take some breakfast
Glass of ale
This is my friend of whom I spoke and whom you wished to see, Sir
the most distinguished advocate of popular rights we possess, the editor of the Mowbray Phalanx, Mr Morley
Why this is the muff that called on me in Hell-house Yard three years ago
I had that honour
Honour be hanged
you know something about somebody; I couldn't squeeze you then, but by G -- I will have it out of you now. Now, cut it short; have you seen him, and where does he live
I came then to gain information, not to give it
I had a friend who wished much to see this gentleman
He ayn't no gentleman
he's my brother: but I tell you what, I'll do something for him now. I'm cock of the walk you see, and that's a sort of thing that don't come twice in a man's life. One should feel for one's flesh and blood, and if I find him out I'll make his fortune, or my name is not Simon Hatton
Suppose you put an advertisement in your paper
What's the name of the man who has got the big mill here, about three mile off, who won't stop his works and ducked my men this morning with his engines. I'll have fire I say for that water -- do you hear that Master Newspaper -- I'll have fire for that water before I am many hours older
The Liberator means Trafford
I'll Trafford him
He ducks my messenger does he? I tell you I'll have fire for that water
Trafford is a humane man
and behaves well to his people
A man with a big mill humane
with two or three thousand slaves working under the same roof, and he doing nothing but eating their vitals. I'll have no big mills where I'm main master. Let him look to it. Here goes
Before an hour I'll pay this same Trafford a visit and I'll see whether he'll duck me. Come on my prime Doggy
To business, friend Morley. This savage can-not be quiet for a moment; he exists only in destruction and rapine. If it were not Trafford's mill it would be something else. I am sorry for the Traffords; they have old blood in their veins. Before sunset their settlement will be razed to the ground. Can we prevent it? And why not attack the castle instead of the mill
Come stupid
what are you staring about? Get your men in order or I'll be among you
Stupid
And who are you who says 'Stupid?' A white- livered Handloom as I dare say, or a son of a gun of a factory slave. Stupid indeed! What next, when a Hell-cat is to be called stupid by such a thing as you
I'll give you a piece of advice young man
just you go down the shaft for a couple of months, and then you'll learn a little of life, which is wery useful
carry out the thing
All the waters of the river shall not dout the blaze that I will light up to-day
He is a most inveterate Capitalist
and would divert the minds of the people from the Five Points by allotting them gardens and giving them baths
We will have no more gardens in England; everything shall be open
and baths shall only be used to drown the enemies of the People. I was always against washing; it takes the marrow out of a man
Here we are
Every door and every window closed! The settlement is deserted. Some one has been before us and apprised them of our arrival
Will they pour water on me
It must be a stream indeed that shall put out the blaze that I am going to light. What shall we do first? Halt there, you men
Will you halt or won't you? or must I be among you
What shall we burn first
We may as well parley with them a little
perhaps we may contrive to gain admission and then we can sack the whole affair, and let the people burn the machinery. It will be a great moral lesson
As long as there is burning
I don't care what lessons you teach them. I leave them to you; but I will have fire to put out that water
I'll advance
Who rings
One who by the order of the Liberator wishes to enter and see whether his commands for a complete cessation of labour have been complied with in this establishment
Very good
There is no hand at work here
and you may take my word for it
Your word be hanged
I want to know
Hush, hush
It may be so, but as our messengers this morning were not permitted to enter and were treated with great indignity
That's it
With great indignity
we must have ocular experience of the state of affairs, and I beg and recommend you therefore at once to let the Liberator enter
None shall enter here
That's enough
Beware
Whether you let us in or not, 'tis all the same
I will have fire for your water, and I have come for that. Now lads
Stop
I will speak to you
He is going to let us in
What does all this mean
I came here to burn down the place
Wait awhile
we must humour the Mowbray men a bit. This is their favourite leader, at least was in old days. I know him well; he is a bold and honest man
Is this the man who ducked my people
Hush
he is going to speak
My friends
Gerard for ever
It is just; just and manly and like a true-born Englishman as he is, who loves the people and whose fathers before him loved the people (great cheering). Three cheers for Mr Trafford I say
and three cheers for Mrs Trafford too, the friend of the poor
Now
Now
now is your time
Gentlemen
A speech, a speech
Listen to Mick Radley
Listen to Mick Radley, he has something important
Radley for ever! Listen to Mick Radley! Go it Dandy! Pitch it into them! Silence for Dandy Mick! Jump up on that ere bank
Gentlemen
Well you have said that before
I like to hear him say 'Gentlemen;' it's respectful
Gentlemen
Three cheers for it
Silence; hear the Dandy
The National Holiday has begun
and it seems to me the best thing for the people to do is to take a walk in Lord de Mowbray's park
I thought we came to burn down the mill! A bloody-minded Capitalist, a man that makes gardens and forces the people to wash themselves: What is all this
Drink a glass of ale with Lord de Mowbray
You had better go back as fast as you can: the mob is out, and coming up Dale in great force
And this young person will persist in crossing over
It's nothing less than madness. I tell her she will meet instant death or worse
It seems to me very rash
Alas! what am I to do
I left my father at Mr Trafford's
Well, we have no time to lose
My dear Joan, I am looking after you. I have been in the greatest alarm for you. There are riots on the other side of the river, and I was afraid you might have crossed the bridge
I think you had really better come home with us till affairs are a little more quiet
You are most kind
but if I could get back to the town through Mowbray Park, I think I might do something for my father
We are going to the Castle through the park at this moment
You had better come with us. There you will at least be safe, and perhaps we shall be able to do something for the good people in trouble over the water
I think we ought all of us to know each other. Lady Joan and myself had once the pleasure of meeting you, I think, at Mr Trafford's. It is a long time ago, but
you are not a person to forget
And now
I will send off a scout immediately for news of your father. In the mean time let us believe the best
Morning Post
How now
Harold
What has happened Alfred
Oh! don't be alarmed
There are some troublesome people in the park; stragglers I suppose from the rioters. The gate-keeper ought not to have let them pass. I have given directions to Bentley what to do, if they come to the castle
Let us go to mama
Mr Bentley told me to say, sir, they are in sight
Very well
You had better go to your mama, Joan, and take Maud and our friend with you. I will stay below for a while
I don't know what to do, sir
They are a very strong party
Close all the windows, lock and bar all the doors
I am frightened
about your lord. I fear he may fall in with these people
My lord is at Mowbray
He must have heard of this mob there
Leave all to me
and make yourselves quite easy; they will go away, I am certain they will go away
You shall all drink his health
I wish they would go
How wonderfully Alfred has managed them
After all
it must be confessed that the people
O! my lady, my lady
the Hell-cats are breaking into the castle
I have come to you
these fellows have got in below. While there is time and we can manage them, you must leave the place
I am ready for anything
Let me go down; I may know some of these men
No, no
They are not Mowbray people. It would not he safe
The mob are in the house, sir
They say they will see everything
Let them see everything
but make a condition that they first let us go. Try Alfred, try to manage them before they are utterly ungovernable
Lord have mercy on us all
You haven't a moment to lose. Follow us
Come on
The mob have possession of the castle. It is our only chance
But the mob are here
I see some Mowbray faces
Bamford and Samuel Carr: Bamford, if you be my father's friend, aid us now; and Samuel Carr, I was with your mother this morning: did she think I should meet her son thus? No, you shall not enter
I know you, Couchman; you told us once at the Convent that we might summon you in our need. I summon you now. O, men, men
What is this? Are you led away by strangers to such deeds? Why, I know you all! You came here to aid, I am sure, and not to harm. Guard these ladies; save them from these foreigners! There's Butler, he'll go with us, and Godfrey Wells. Shall it be said you let your neighbours be plundered and assailed by strangers and never tried to shield them? Now, my good friends, I entreat, I adjure you, Butler, Wells, Couchman, what would Walter Gerard say, your friend that you have so often followed, if he saw this
Gerard forever
Gerard forever
'Tis his blessed daughter
'tis Sybil, our angel Sybil
Stand by Sybil Gerard
Keep back there! I call upon you in the name of God to keep back
For no evil purpose, Mr St Lys. I came as others did, to see what was going on
Then you see a deed of darkness. Struggle against it. Aid me and Philip Warner in this work; it will support you at the judgment. Tressel, Tressel, stand by me and Warner. That's good, that's right! And you too, Daventry, and you, and you. I knew you would wash your hands of this fell deed. It is not Mowbray men who would do this. That's right, that's right! Form a band. Good again. There's not a man that joins us now who does not make a friend for life
Now
'Tis Natur
The knaves have destroyed them
I thought how it would be. They never would run the chance of a son of Labour being lord of all this
Hilloa
Troops, troops! there are troops here
Let us descend
In the confusion we may escape. I will take the box
They are not troops
they are yeomanry; they are firing away and cutting every one down. They have cleared the ground floor of the castle and are in complete possession below. We cannot escape this way
Those accursed locks
Time has beat us. Let us see, let us see
Comrades, they are here! they are ascending the stairs
You see this window; can you by any means reach that roof
One may as well lose one's neck that way
I'll try
Off! If you land I will throw this box after you. Now mind; take it to the convent at Mowbray and deliver it yourself from me to Sybil Gerard. It is light; there are only papers in it; but they will give her her own again, and she will not forget you
Never mind that
I only wish I may live to see her
Good bye my hearties
And now
we may fight our way yet. I'll shoot the first man who enters, and then you must rush on them with your bludgeons
Surrender
Resistance is useless
Morley! Stephen Morley
You, you here
Yes. I am sped
No, no succour. It is useless and I desire none. Why I am here is a mystery; let it remain so. The world will misjudge me; the man of peace they will say was a hypocrite. The world will be wrong, as it always is. Death is bitter
more bitter from you; but just. We have struggled together before, Egremont. I thought I had scotched you then, but you escaped. Our lives have been a struggle since we first met. Your star has controlled mine; and now I feel I have sacrificed life and fame -- dying men prophecy -- for your profit and honour. O Sybil
We will never part again
Never
I heard they were to be at Lady Palmerston's last night
No
they make their first appearance at Deloraine House. We meet there on Thursday I know
Well, I must say
that I am curious to see her
Lord Valentine met them last year at Naples
And what does he say of her
Oh! he raves
What a romantic history! And what a fortunate man is Lord Marney. If one could only have foreseen events
He was always a favourite of mine though. But still I thought his brother was the very last person who ever would die. He was so very hard
I fear Lord Marney is entirely lost to us
Ah! he always had a twist
and used to breakfast with that horrid Mr Trenchard, and do those sort of things. But still with his immense fortune, I should think he would become rational
You may well say immense
Mr Ormsby, and there is no better judge of another man's income, says there are not three peers in the kingdom who have so much a year clear
They say the Mowbray estate is forty thousand a year
Poor Lady de Mowbray! I understand that Mr Mountchesney has resolved not to appeal against the verdict
You know he has not a shadow of a chance
Ah! what changes we have seen in that family! They say the writ of right killed poor Lord de Mowbray, but to my mind he never recovered the burning of the Castle. We went over to them directly, and I never saw a man so cut up. We wanted them to come to us at Firebrace, but he said he should leave the county immediately. I remember Lord Bardolf mentioning to me, that he looked like a dying man
Well I must say
that I am most curious to see Lady Marney
</text>
