<text>
Good night t'ee
Good night, Sir John
Now, sir, begging your pardon; we met last market-day on this road about this time, and I said 'Good night,' and you made reply '_Good night, Sir John_,' as now
I did
And once before that -- near a month ago
I may have
Then what might your meaning be in calling me 'Sir John' these different times, when I be plain Jack Durbeyfield, the haggler
It was only my whim
It was on account of a discovery I made some little time ago, whilst I was hunting up pedigrees for the new county history. I am Parson Tringham, the antiquary, of Stagfoot Lane. Don't you really know, Durbeyfield, that you are the lineal representative of the ancient and knightly family of the d'Urbervilles, who derive their descent from Sir Pagan d'Urberville, that renowned knight who came from Normandy with William the Conqueror, as appears by Battle Abbey Roll
Never heard it before, sir
Well it's true. Throw up your chin a moment, so that I may catch the profile of your face better. Yes, that's the d'Urberville nose and chin -- a little debased. Your ancestor was one of the twelve knights who assisted the Lord of Estremavilla in Normandy in his conquest of Glamorganshire. Branches of your family held manors over all this part of England; their names appear in the Pipe Rolls in the time of King Stephen. In the reign of King John one of them was rich enough to give a manor to the Knights Hospitallers; and in Edward the Second's time your forefather Brian was summoned to Westminster to attend the great Council there. You declined a little in Oliver Cromwell's time, but to no serious extent, and in Charles the Second's reign you were made Knights of the Royal Oak for your loyalty. Aye, there have been generations of Sir Johns among you, and if knighthood were hereditary, like a baronetcy, as it practically was in old times, when men were knighted from father to son, you would be Sir John now
Ye don't say so
In short
there's hardly such another family in England
Daze my eyes, and isn't there
And here have I been knocking about, year after year, from pillar to post, as if I was no more than the commonest feller in the parish... And how long hev this news about me been knowed, Pa'son Tringham
At first I resolved not to disturb you with such a useless piece of information
However, our impulses are too strong for our judgement sometimes. I thought you might perhaps know something of it all the while
Well, I have heard once or twice, 'tis true, that my family had seen better days afore they came to Blackmoor. But I took no notice o't, thinking it to mean that we had once kept two horses where we now keep only one. I've got a wold silver spoon, and a wold graven seal at home, too; but, Lord, what's a spoon and seal? ... And to think that I and these noble d'Urbervilles were one flesh all the time. 'Twas said that my gr't-granfer had secrets, and didn't care to talk of where he came from... And where do we raise our smoke, now, parson, if I may make so bold; I mean, where do we d'Urbervilles live
You don't live anywhere. You are extinct -- as a county family
That's bad
Yes -- what the mendacious family chronicles call extinct in the male line -- that is, gone down -- gone under
Then where do we lie
At Kingsbere-sub-Greenhill: rows and rows of you in your vaults, with your effigies under Purbeck-marble canopies
And where be our family mansions and estates
You haven't any
Oh? No lands neither
None; though you once had 'em in abundance, as I said, for you family consisted of numerous branches. In this county there was a seat of yours at Kingsbere, and another at Sherton, and another in Millpond, and another at Lullstead, and another at Wellbridge
And shall we ever come into our own again
Ah -- that I can't tell
And what had I better do about it, sir
Oh -- nothing, nothing; except chasten yourself with the thought of 'how are the mighty fallen.' It is a fact of some interest to the local historian and genealogist, nothing more. There are several families among the cottagers of this county of almost equal lustre. Good night
But you'll turn back and have a quart of beer wi' me on the strength o't, Pa'son Tringham? There's a very pretty brew in tap at The Pure Drop -- though, to be sure, not so good as at Rolliver's
No, thank you -- not this evening, Durbeyfield. You've had enough already
Boy, take up that basket! I want 'ee to go on an errand for me
Who be you, then, John Durbeyfield, to order me about and call me 'boy'? You know my name as well as I know yours
Do you, do you? That's the secret -- that's the secret! Now obey my orders, and take the message I'm going to charge 'ee wi'... Well, Fred, I don't mind telling you that the secret is that I'm one of a noble race -- it has been just found out by me this present afternoon, P.M
Sir John d'Urberville -- that's who I am
That is if knights were baronets -- which they be. 'Tis recorded in history all about me. Dost know of such a place, lad, as Kingsbere-sub-Greenhill
Ees. I've been there to Greenhill Fair
Well, under the church of that city there lie
Tisn't a city, the place I mean; leastwise 'twaddn' when I was there --'twas a little one-eyed, blinking sort o' place
Never you mind the place, boy, that's not the question before us. Under the church of that there parish lie my ancestors -- hundreds of 'em -- in coats of mail and jewels, in gr't lead coffins weighing tons and tons. There's not a man in the county o' South-Wessex that's got grander and nobler skillentons in his family than I
Oh
Now take up that basket, and goo on to Marlott, and when you've come to The Pure Drop Inn, tell 'em to send a horse and carriage to me immed'ately, to carry me hwome. And in the bottom o' the carriage they be to put a noggin o' rum in a small bottle, and chalk it up to my account. And when you've done that goo on to my house with the basket, and tell my wife to put away that washing, because she needn't finish it, and wait till I come hwome, as I've news to tell her
Here's for your labour, lad
Yes, Sir John. Thank 'ee. Anything else I can do for 'ee, Sir John
Tell 'em at hwome that I should like for supper,-- well, lamb's fry if they can get it; and if they can't, black-pot; and if they can't get that, well chitterlings will do
Yes, Sir John
What's that
Not on account o' I
'Tis the women's club-walking, Sir John. Why, yourda't er is one o' the members
To be sure -- I'd quite forgot it in my thoughts of greater things! Well, vamp on to Marlott, will ye, and order that carriage, and maybe I'll drive round and inspect the club
club-walking
I have no pleasure in them
The Load-a-Lord! Why, Tess Durbeyfield, if there isn't thy father riding hwome in a carriage
I've-got-a-gr't-family-vault-at-Kingsbere -- and knighted-forefathers-in-lead-coffins-there
He's tired, that's all
and he has got a lift home, because our own horse has to rest to-day
Bless thy simplicity, Tess
He's got his market-nitch. Haw-haw
Look here; I won't walk another inch with you, if you say any jokes about him
What are you going to do, Angel
I am inclined to go and have a fling with them. Why not all of us -- just for a minute or two -- it will not detain us long
No -- no; nonsense
Dancing in public with a troop of country hoydens -- suppose we should be seen! Come along, or it will be dark before we get to Stourcastle, and there's no place we can sleep at nearer than that; besides, we must get through another chapter of _A Counterblast to Agnosticism_ before we turn in, now I have taken the trouble to bring the book
All right -- I'll overtake you and Cuthbert in five minutes; don't stop; I give my word that I will, Felix
This is a thousand pities
Where are your partners, my dears
They've not left off work yet
They'll be here by and by. Till then, will you be one, sir
Certainly. But what's one among so many
Better than none. 'Tis melancholy work facing and footing it to one of your own sort, and no clipsing and colling at all. Now, pick and choose
Ssh -- don't be so for'ard
The Spotted Cow
God bless thy diment eyes! And thy waxen cheeks! And thy cherry mouth! And thy Cubit's thighs! And every bit o' thy blessed body
I'll rock the cradle for 'ee, mother
Or I'll take off my best frock and help you wring up? I thought you had finished long ago
Well, I'm glad you've come
I want to go and fetch your father; but what's more'n that, I want to tell 'ee what have happened. Y'll be fess enough, my poppet, whenth's t know
Since I've been away
Ay
Had it anything to do with father's making such a mommet of himself in thik carriage this afternoon? Why did 'er? I felt inclined to sink into the ground with shame
That wer all a part of the larry! We've been found to be the greatest gentlefolk in the whole county -- reaching all back long before Oliver Grumble's time -- to the days of the Pagan Turks -- with monuments, and vaults, and crests, and 'scutcheons, and the Lord knows what all. In Saint Charles's days we was made Knights o' the Royal Oak, our real name being d'Urberville! ... Don't that make your bosom plim? 'Twas on this account that your father rode home in the vlee; not because he'd been drinking, as people supposed
I'm glad of that. Will it do us any good, mother
O yes! 'Tis thoughted that great things may come o't. No doubt a mampus of volk of our own rank will be down here in their carriages as soon as 'tis known. Your father learnt it on his way hwome from Shaston, and he has been telling me the whole pedigree of the matter
Where is father now
He called to see the doctor to-day in Shaston. It is not consumption at all, it seems. It is fat round his heart, 'a says. There, it is like this
At the present moment,' he says to your father, 'your heart is enclosed all round there, and all round there; this space is still open,' 'a says. 'As soon as it do meet, so
off you will go like a shadder, Mr Durbeyfield,' 'a says. 'You mid last ten years; you mid go off in ten months, or ten days
But where IS father
Now don't you be bursting out angry! The poor man -- he felt so rafted after his uplifting by thepa's on's news -- that he went up to Rolliver's half an hour ago. He do want to get up his strength for his journey to-morrow with that load of beehives, which must be delivered, family or no. He'll have to start shortly after twelve to-night, as the distance is so long
Get up his strength
O my God! Go to a public-house to get up his strength! And you as well agreed as he, mother
No
I be not agreed. I have been waiting for 'ee to bide and keep house while I go fetch him
I'll go
O no, Tess. You see, it would be no use
And take the _Compleat Fortune-Teller_ to the outhouse
Liza-Lu
Nature's holy plan
Abraham
do you put on your hat -- you bain't afraid?-- and go up to Rolliver's, and see what has gone wi' father and mother
I must go myself
Being a few private friends I've asked in to keep up club-walking at my own expense
Oh, 'tis you, Mrs Durbeyfield -- Lard -- how you frightened me!-- I thought it might be some gaffer sent by Gover'ment
I be as good as some folks here and there! I've got a great family vault at Kingsbere-sub-Greenhill, and finer skillentons than any man in Wessex
I've something to tell 'ee that's come into my head about that -- a grand projick
Here, John, don't 'ee see me
Hush! Don't 'ee sing so loud, my good man
in case any member of the Gover'ment should be passing, and take away my licends
He's told 'ee what's happened to us, I suppose
Yes -- in a way. D'ye think there's any money hanging by it
Ah, that's the secret
However, 'tis well to be kin to a coach, even if you don't ride in 'en
I've been thinking since you brought the news that there's a great rich lady out by Trantridge, on the edge o' The Chase, of the name of d'Urberville
Hey -- what's that
That lady must be our relation
And my projick is to send Tess to claim kin
There IS a lady of the name, now you mention it
Pa'son Tringham didn't think of that. But she's nothing beside we -- a junior branch of us, no doubt, hailing long since King Norman's day
She is rich, and she'd be sure to take notice o' the maid
and 'twill be a very good thing. I don't see why two branches o' one family should not be on visiting terms
Yes; and we'll all claim kin
And we'll all go and see her when Tess has gone to live with her; and we'll ride in her coach and wear black clothes
How do you come here, child? What nonsense be ye talking! Go away, and play on the stairs till father and mother be ready! ... Well, Tess ought to go to this other member of our family. She'd be sure to win the lady -- Tess would; and likely enough 'twould lead to some noble gentleman marrying her. In short, I know it
How
I tried her fate in the _Fortune-Teller_, and it brought out that very thing! ... You should ha' seen how pretty she looked to-day; her skin is as sumple as a duchess'
What says the maid herself to going
I've not asked her. She don't know there is any such lady-relation yet. But it would certainly put her in the way of a grand marriage, and she won't say nay to going
Tess is queer
But she's tractable at bottom. Leave her to me
Tess is a fine figure o' fun, as I said to myself to-day when I zeed her vamping round parish with the rest
But Joan Durbeyfield must mind that she don't get green malt in floor
Being a few private friends asked in to-night to keep up club-walking at my own expense
No noise, please, if ye'll be so good, my dears; or I mid lose my licends, and be summons'd, and I don't know what all! 'Night t'ye
I've got a fam -- ily vault at Kingsbere
Hush -- don't be so silly, Jacky
Yours is not the only family that was of 'count in wold days. Look at the Anktells, and Horseys, and the Tringhams themselves -- gone to seed a'most as much as you -- though you was bigger folks than they, that's true. Thank God, I was never of no family, and have nothing to be ashamed of in that way
Don't you be so sure o' that. From you nater 'tis my belief you've disgraced yourselves more than any o' us, and was kings and queens outright at one time
I am afraid father won't be able to take the journey with the beehives to-morrow so early
I? I shall be all right in an hour or two
The poor man can't go
But somebody must go
It is late for the hives already. Swarming will soon be over for the year; and it we put off taking 'em till next week's market the call for 'em will be past, and they'll be thrown on our hands
Some young feller, perhaps, would go? One of them who were so much after dancing with 'ee yesterday
O no -- I wouldn't have it for the world
And letting everybody know the reason -- such a thing to be ashamed of! I think _I_ could go if Abraham could go with me to kip me company
Tess
Yes, Abraham
Bain't you glad that we've become gentlefolk
Not particular glad
But you be glad that you 'm going to marry a gentleman
What
That our great relation will help 'ee to marry a gentleman
I? Our great relation? We have no such relation. What has put that into your head
I heard 'em talking about it up at Rolliver's when I went to find father. There's a rich lady of our family out at Trantridge, and mother said that if you claimed kin with the lady, she'd put 'ee in the way of marrying a gentleman
Never mind that now
Did you say the stars were worlds, Tess
Yes
All like ours
I don't know; but I think so. They sometimes seem to be like the apples on our stubbard-tree. Most of them splendid and sound -- a few blighted
Which do we live on -- a splendid one or a blighted one
A blighted one
'Tis very unlucky that we didn't pitch on a sound one, when there were so many more of 'em
Yes
Is it like that REALLY, Tess
How would it have been if we had pitched on a sound one
Well, father wouldn't have coughed and creeped about as he does, and wouldn't have got too tipsy to go on this journey; and mother wouldn't have been always washing, and never getting finished
And you would have been a rich lady ready-made, and not have had to be made rich by marrying a gentleman
O Aby, don't -- don't talk of that any more
Hoi there
You was on the wrong side
I am bound to go on with the mail-bags, so that the best thing for you to do is bide here with your load. I'll send somebody to help you as soon as I can. It is getting daylight, and you have nothing to fear
'Tis all my doing -- all mine
No excuse for me -- none. What will mother and father live on now? Aby, Aby
We can't go on with our load -- Prince is killed
Why, I danced and laughed only yesterday
To think that I was such a fool
'Tis because we be on a blighted star, and not a sound one, isn't it, Tess
No
I won't sell his old body. When we d'Urbervilles was knights in the land, we didn't sell our chargers for cat's meat. Let 'em keep their shillings! He've served me well in his lifetime, and I won't part from him now
Is he gone to heaven
We must take the ups wi' the downs, Tess
and never could your high blood have been found out at a more called-for moment. You must try your friends. Do ye know that there is a very rich Mrs d'Urberville living on the outskirts o' The Chase, who must be our relation? You must go to her and claim kin, and ask for some help in our trouble
I shouldn't care to do that
If there is such a lady, 'twould be enough for us if she were friendly -- not to expect her to give us help
You could win her round to do anything, my dear. Besides, perhaps there's more in it than you know of. I've heard what I've heard, good-now
I'd rather try to get work
Durbeyfield, you can settle it
If you say she ought to go, she will go
I don't like my children going and making themselves beholden to strange kin
I'm the head of the noblest branch o' the family, and I ought to live up to it
Well, as I killed the horse, mother
I suppose I ought to do something. I don't mind going and seeing her, but you must leave it to me about asking for help. And don't go thinking about her making a match for me -- it is silly
Very well said, Tess
Who said I had such a thought
I fancy it is in your mind, mother. But I'll go
I thought we were an old family; but this is all new
claiming kin
Well, my Beauty, what can I do for you
Never mind me. I am Mr d'Urberville. Have you come to see me or my mother
I came to see your mother, sir
I am afraid you cannot see her -- she is an invalid
Cannot I answer your purpose? What is the business you wish to see her about
It isn't business -- it is -- I can hardly say what
Pleasure
Oh no. Why, sir, if I tell you, it will seem
It is so very foolish
I fear can't tell you
Never mind; I like foolish things. Try again, my dear
Mother asked me to come
and, indeed, I was in the mind to do so myself likewise. But I did not think it would be like this. I came, sir, to tell you that we are of the same family as you
Ho! Poor relations
Yes
Stokes
No; d'Urbervilles
Ay, ay; I mean d'Urbervilles
Our names are worn away to Durbeyfield; but we have several proofs that we are d'Urbervilles. Antiquarians hold we are,-- and -- and we have an old seal, marked with a ramping lion on a shield, and a castle over him. And we have a very old silver spoon, round in the bowl like a little ladle, and marked with the same castle. But it is so worn that mother uses it to stir the pea-soup
A castle argent is certainly my crest
And my arms a lion rampant
And so mother said we ought to make ourselves beknown to you -- as we've lost our horse by a bad accident, and are the oldest branch o' the family
Very kind of your mother, I'm sure. And I, for one, don't regret her step
And so, my pretty girl, you've come on a friendly visit to us, as relations
I suppose I have
Well -- there's no harm in it. Where do you live? What are you
It is a long while before he returns past Trantridge Cross. Supposing we walk round the grounds to pass the time, my pretty Coz
Yes
when they come
They are already here
No -- no
I would rather take it in my own hand
Nonsense
Now, by the time you have had something to eat, it will be time for you to leave, if you want to catch the carrier to Shaston. Come here, and I'll see what grub I can find
Do you mind my smoking
Oh, not at all, sir
Now I am going home, sir
And what do they call you
Tess Durbeyfield, down at Marlott
And you say your people have lost their horse
I -- killed him
And I don't know what to do for father on account of it
I must think if I cannot do something. My mother must find a berth for you. But, Tess, no nonsense about 'd'Urberville';--'Durbeyfield' only, you know -- quite another name
I wish for no better, sir
See
Here
Where
Well, I'm damned! What a funny thing! Ha-ha-ha! And what a crumby girl
Why, you be quite a posy! And such roses in early June
Oh yes; I know all about it! I told 'ee it would be all right, and now 'tis proved
Since I've been away? What has
So you've brought 'em round
How do you know, mother
I've had a letter
They say -- Mrs d'Urberville says -- that she wants you to look after a little fowl-farm which is her hobby. But this is only her artful way of getting 'ee there without raising your hopes. She's going to own 'ee as kin -- that's the meaning o't
But I didn't see her
You zid somebody, I suppose
I saw her son
And did he own 'ee
Well -- he called me Coz
An' I knew it! Jacky -- he called her Coz
Well, he spoke to his mother, of course, and she do want 'ee there
But I don't know that I am apt at tending fowls
Then I don't know who is apt. You've be'n born in the business, and brought up in it. They that be born in a business always know more about it than any 'prentice. Besides, that's only just a show of something for you to do, that you midn't feel beholden
I don't altogether think I ought to go
Who wrote the letter? Will you let me look at it
Mrs d'Urberville wrote it. Here it is
Oh -- that's all
You couldn't expect her to throw her arms round 'ee, an' to kiss and to coll 'ee all at once
I would rather stay here with father and you
But why
I'd rather not tell you why, mother; indeed, I don't quite know why
The gentleman's been here
Mr d'Urberville says you must be a good girl if you are at all as you appear; he knows you must be worth your weight in gold. He is very much interested in 'ee -- truth to tell
It is very good of him to think that
and if I was quite sure how it would be living there, I would go any-when
He is a mighty handsome man
I don't think so
Well, there's your chance, whether or no; and I'm sure he wears a beautiful diamond ring
Yes
and I seed it! and it did twinkle when he put his hand up to his mistarshers. Mother, why did our grand relation keep on putting his hand up to his mistarshers
Hark at that child
Perhaps to show his diamond ring
I'll think it over
Well, she's made a conquest o' the younger branch of us, straight off
and she's a fool if she don't follow it up
I don't quite like my children going away from home
As the head of the family, the rest ought to come to me
But do let her go, Jacky
He's struck wi' her -- you can see that. He called her Coz! He'll marry her, most likely, and make a lady of her; and then she'll be what her forefathers was
Well, perhaps that's what young Mr d'Urberville means
and sure enough he mid have serious thoughts about improving his blood by linking on to the old line. Tess, the little rogue! And have she really paid 'em a visit to such an end as this
Well, what be you going to do
I wish I had seen Mrs d'Urberville
I think you mid as well settle it. Then you'll see her soon enough
I don't know what to say
It is for you to decide. I killed the old horse, and I suppose I ought to do something to get ye a new one. But -- but -- I don't quite like Mr d'Urberville being there
Tess won't go-o-o and be made a la-a-dy of!-- no, she says she wo-o-on't
And we shan't have a nice new horse, and lots o' golden money to buy fairlings! And Tess won't look pretty in her best cloze no mo-o-ore
I will go
That's right! For such a pretty maid as 'tis, this is a fine chance
I hope it is a chance for earning money. It is no other kind of chance. You had better say nothing of that silly sort about parish
A cart
It might have been a carriage for her own kin
You will never set out to see your folks without dressing up more the dand than that
But I am going to work
Well, yes
at first there mid be a little pretence o't ... But I think it will be wiser of 'ee to put your best side outward
Very well; I suppose you know best
Do what you like with me, mother
I declare there's a hole in my stocking-heel
Never mind holes in your stockings -- they don't speak! When I was a maid, so long as I had a pretty bonnet the devil might ha' found me in heels
You must zee yourself
It is much better than you was t'other day
I'll tell 'ee what 'tis, Durbeyfield
he'll never have the heart not to love her. But whatever you do, don't zay too much to Tess of his fancy for her, and this chance she has got. She is such an odd maid that it mid zet her against him, or against going there, even now. If all goes well, I shall certainly be for making some return topa's on at Stagfoot Lane for telling us -- dear, good man
I do want to walk a little-ways wi' Sissy, now she's going to marry our gentleman-cousin, and wear fine cloze
Now
I'll hear no more o' that! Mother, how could you ever put such stuff into their heads
Going to work, my dears, for our rich relation, and help get enough money for a new horse
Goodbye, father
Goodbye, my maid
Well, I hope my young friend will like such a comely sample of his own blood. And tell'n, Tess, that being sunk, quite, from our former grandeur, I'll sell him the title -- yes, sell it -- and at no onreasonable figure
Not for less than a thousand pound
Tell'n -- I'll take a thousand pound. Well, I'll take less, when I come to think o't. He'll adorn it better than a poor lammicken feller like myself can. Tell'n he shall hae it for a hundred. But I won't stand upon trifles -- tell'n he shall hae it for fifty -- for twenty pound! Yes, twenty pound -- that's the lowest. Dammy, family honour is family honour, and I won't take a penny less
Bide here a bit, and the cart will soon come, no doubt
Yes, I see it yonder
Is dat the gentleman-kinsman who'll make Sissy a lady
I wish poor, poor Tess wasn't gone away to be a lady
Oh, I don't know exactly
I was thinking that perhaps it would ha' been better if Tess had not gone
Oughtn't ye to have thought of that before
Well, 'tis a chance for the maid -- Still, if 'twere the doing again, I wouldn't let her go till I had found out whether the gentleman is really a good-hearted young man and choice over her as his kinswoman
Yes, you ought, perhaps, to ha' done that
Well, as one of the genuine stock, she ought to make her way with 'en, if she plays her trump card aright. And if he don't marry her afore he will after. For that he's all afire wi' love for her any eye can see
What's her trump card? Her d'Urberville blood, you mean
No, stupid; her face -- as 'twas mine
You will go down slow, sir, I suppose
Why, Tess
it isn't a brave bouncing girl like you who asks that? Why, I always go down at full gallop. There's nothing like it for raising your spirits
But perhaps you need not now
Ah
there are two to be reckoned with. It is not me alone. Tib has to be considered, and she has a very queer temper
Who
Why, this mare. I fancy she looked round at me in a very grim way just then. Didn't you notice it
Don't try to frighten me, sir
Well, I don't. If any living man can manage this horse I can: I won't say any living man can do it -- but if such has the power, I am he
Why do you have such a horse
Ah, well may you ask it! It was my fate, I suppose. Tib has killed one chap; and just after I bought her she nearly killed me. And then, take my word for it, I nearly killed her. But she's touchy still, very touchy; and one's life is hardly safe behind her sometimes
Don't touch my arm! We shall be thrown out if you do! Hold on round my waist
Safe, thank God, in spite of your fooling
Tess -- fie! that's temper
'Tis truth
Well, you need not let go your hold of me so thanklessly the moment you feel yourself our of danger
Now then, again
No, no
Show more sense, do, please
But when people find themselves on one of the highest points in the county, they must get down again
Now then, put your arms round my waist again, as you did before, my Beauty
Never
Let me put one little kiss on those holmberry lips, Tess, or even on that warmed cheek, and I'll stop -- on my honour, I will
Will nothing else do
Nothing, dear Tess
Oh, I don't know -- very well; I don't mind
Now, damn it -- I'll break both our necks
So you can go from your word like that, you young witch, can you
Very well
I'll not move since you be so determined! But I -- thought you would be kind to me, and protect me, as my kinsman
Kinsman be hanged! Now
But I don't want anybody to kiss me, sir
And I wouldn't ha' come if I had known
You are mighty sensitive for a cottage girl
You shall be made sorry for that
Unless, that is, you agree willingly to let me do it again, and no handkerchief
Very well, sir
Oh -- let me get my hat
You look prettier with it off, upon my soul, if that's possible
Now then, up again! What's the matter
No, sir
not again, if I know it
What -- you won't get up beside me
No; I shall walk
'Tis five or six miles yet to Trantridge
I don't care if 'tis dozens. Besides, the cart is behind
You artful hussy! Now, tell me -- didn't you make that hat blow off on purpose? I'll swear you did
You ought to be ashamed of yourself for using such wicked words
I don't like 'ee at all! I hate and detest you! I'll go back to mother, I will
Well, I like you all the better
Come, let there be peace. I'll never do it any more against your will. My life upon it now
'Twas good enough for Christians in grandfather's time
Mrs d'Urberville wants the fowls as usual
Mis'ess is a old lady, and blind
Blind
Ah, you are the young woman come to look after my birds
I hope you will be kind to them. My bailiff tells me you are quite the proper person. Well, where are they? Ah, this is Strut! But he is hardly so lively to-day, is he? He is alarmed at being handled by a stranger, I suppose. And Phena too -- yes, they are a little frightened -- aren't you, dears? But they will soon get used to you
Can you whistle
Whistle, Ma'am
Yes, whistle tunes
Then you will have to practise it every day. I had a lad who did it very well, but he has left. I want you to whistle to my bullfinches; as I cannot see them, I like to hear them, and we teach 'em airs that way. Tell her where the cages are, Elizabeth. You must begin to-morrow, or they will go back in their piping. They have been neglected these several days
Mr d'Urberville whistled to 'em this morning, ma'am
He! Pooh
Upon my honour
there was never before such a beautiful thing in Nature or Art as you look, 'Cousin' Tess ('Cousin' had a faint ring of mockery). I have been watching you from over the wall -- sitting like IM-patience on a monument, and pouting up that pretty red mouth to whistling shape, and whooing and whooing, and privately swearing, and never being able to produce a note. Why, you are quite cross because you can't do it
I may be cross, but I didn't swear
Ah! I understand why you are trying -- those bullies! My mother wants you to carry on their musical education. How selfish of her! As if attending to these curst cocks and hens here were not enough work for any girl. I would flatly refuse, if I were you
But she wants me particularly to do it, and to be ready by to-morrow morning
Does she? Well then -- I'll give you a lesson or two
Oh no, you won't
Nonsense; I don't want to touch you. See -- I'll stand on this side of the wire-netting, and you can keep on the other; so you may feel quite safe. Now, look here; you screw up your lips too harshly. There 'tis -- so
Take, O take those lips away
Now try
Try again
That's it! Now I have started you -- you'll go on beautifully. There -- I said I would not come near you; and, in spite of such temptation as never before fell to mortal man, I'll keep my word... Tess, do you think my mother a queer old soul
I don't know much of her yet, sir
You'll find her so; she must be, to make you learn to whistle to her bullfinches. I am rather out of her books just now, but you will be quite in favour if you treat her live-stock well. Good morning. If you meet with any difficulties and want help here, don't go to the bailiff, come to me
What -- my Beauty? You here so late
I'll see you again
scroff
The maids don't think it respectable to dance at The Flower-de-Luce
They don't like to let everybody see which be their fancy-men. Besides, the house sometimes shuts up just when their jints begin to get greased. So we come here and send out for liquor
But when be any of you going home
Now -- a'most directly. This is all but the last jig
Don't ye be nervous, my dear good soul
What's yer hurry? To-morrow is Sunday, thank God, and we can sleep it off in church-time. Now, have a turn with me
You shall catch it for this, my gentleman, when you get home
Well, my Beauty, what are you doing here
But it seems they will never leave off, and I really think I will wait no longer
Certainly do not. I have only a saddle-horse here to-day; but come to The Flower-de-Luce, and I'll hire a trap, and drive you home with me
I have said that I will wait for 'em, and they will expect me to now
Very well, Miss Independence. Please yourself... Then I shall not hurry... My good Lord, what a kick-up they are having there
Well -- whatever is that a-creeping down thy back, Car Darch
'Tis her hair falling down
'Tis treacle
How darest th' laugh at me, hussy
I couldn't really help it when t'others did
Ah, th'st think th' beest everybody, dostn't, because th' beest first favourite with He just now! But stop a bit, my lady, stop a bit! I'm as good as two of such! Look here -- here's at 'ee
Indeed, then, I shall not fight
and if I had know you was of that sort, I wouldn't have so let myself down as to come with such a whorage as this is
What the devil is all this row about, work-folk
Jump up behind me
and we'll get shot of the screaming cats in a jiffy
What be ye looking at
Ho-ho-ho
Hee-hee-hee
Heu-heu-heu
Out of the frying-pan into the fire
Neatly done, was it not, dear Tess
Yes
I am sure I ought to be much obliged to you
And are you
Tess, why do you always dislike my kissing you
I suppose -- because I don't love you
You are quite sure
I am angry with you sometimes
Ah, I half feared as much
Why haven't you told me when I have made you angry
You know very well why. Because I cannot help myself here
I haven't offended you often by love-making
You have sometimes
How many times
You know as well as I -- too many times
Every time I have tried
That is devilish unkind
I mean no harm -- only to keep you from falling
I beg your pardon, sir
I won't pardon you unless you show some confidence in me. Good God
what am I, to be repulsed so by a mere chit like you? For near three mortal months have you trifled with my feelings, eluded me, and snubbed me; and I won't stand it
I'll leave you to-morrow, sir
No, you will not leave me to-morrow! Will you, I ask once more, show your belief in me by letting me clasp you with my arm? Come, between us two and nobody else, now. We know each other well; and you know that I love you, and think you the prettiest girl in the world, which you are. Mayn't I treat you as a lover
I don't know -- I wish -- how can I say yes or no when
Why, where be we
Passing by a wood
A wood -- what wood? Surely we are quite out of the road
A bit of The Chase -- the oldest wood in England. It is a lovely night, and why should we not prolong our ride a little
How could you be so treacherous
Just when I've been putting such trust in you, and obliging you to please you, because I thought I had wronged you by that push! Please set me down, and let me walk home
You cannot walk home, darling, even if the air were clear. We are miles away from Trantridge, if I must tell you, and in this growing fog you might wander for hours among these trees
Never mind that
Put me down, I beg you. I don't mind where it is; only let me get down, sir, please
Very well, then, I will -- on one condition. Having brought you here to this out-of-the-way place, I feel myself responsible for your safe-conduct home, whatever you may yourself feel about it. As to your getting to Trantridge without assistance, it is quite impossible; for, to tell the truth, dear, owing to this fog, which so disguises everything, I don't quite know where we are myself. Now, if you will promise to wait beside the horse while I walk through the bushes till I come to some road or house, and ascertain exactly our whereabouts, I'll deposit you here willingly. When I come back I'll give you full directions, and if you insist upon walking you may; or you may ride -- at your pleasure
I suppose I must hold the horse
Oh no; it's not necessary
He's had enough of it for to-night
Now, you sit there
The leaves have not got damp as yet. Just give an eye to the horse -- it will be quite sufficient
By the bye, Tess, your father has a new cob to-day. Somebody gave it to him
Somebody? You
O how very good of you that is
And the children have some toys
I didn't know -- you ever sent them anything
I almost wish you had not -- yes, I almost wish it
Why, dear
It -- hampers me so
Tessy -- don't you love me ever so little now
I'm grateful
But I fear I do not
Don't cry, dear, dear one! Now sit down here, and wait till I come
Are you cold
Not very -- a little
You have only that puffy muslin dress on -- how's that
It's my best summer one. 'Twas very warm when I started, and I didn't know I was going to ride, and that it would be night
Nights grow chilly in September. Let me see
That's it -- now you'll feel warmer
Now, my pretty, rest there; I shall soon be back again
Tess
It was to be
Why did you slip away by stealth like this
on a Sunday morning, too, when people were all in bed! I only discovered it by accident, and I have been driving like the deuce to overtake you. Just look at the mare. Why go off like this? You know that nobody wished to hinder your going. And how unnecessary it has been for you to toil along on foot, and encumber yourself with this heavy load! I have followed like a madman, simply to drive you the rest of the distance, if you won't come back
I shan't come back
I thought you wouldn't -- I said so! Well, then, put up your basket, and let me help you on
What are you crying for
I was only thinking that I was born over there
Well -- we must all be born somewhere
I wish I had never been born -- there or anywhere else
Pooh! Well, if you didn't wish to come to Trantridge why did you come
You didn't come for love of me, that I'll swear
'Tis quite true. If I had gone for love o' you, if I had ever sincerely loved you, if I loved you still, I should not so loathe and hate myself for my weakness as I do now! ... My eyes were dazed by you for a little, and that was all
I didn't understand your meaning till it was too late
That's what every woman says
How can you dare to use such words
My God! I could knock you out of the gig! Did it never strike your mind that what every woman says some women may feel
Very well
I am sorry to wound you. I did wrong -- I admit it
Only you needn't be so everlastingly flinging it in my face. I am ready to pay to the uttermost farthing. You know you need not work in the fields or the dairies again. You know you may clothe yourself with the best, instead of in the bald plain way you have lately affected, as if you couldn't get a ribbon more than you earn
I have said I will not take anything more from you, and I will not -- I cannot! I SHOULD be your creature to go on doing that, and I won't
One would think you were a princess from your manner, in addition to a true and original d'Urberville -- ha! ha! Well, Tess, dear, I can say no more. I suppose I am a bad fellow -- a damn bad fellow. I was born bad, and I have lived bad, and I shall die bad in all probability. But, upon my lost soul, I won't be bad towards you again, Tess. And if certain circumstances should arise -- you understand -- in which you are in the least need, the least difficulty, send me one line, and you shall have by return whatever you require. I may not be at Trantridge -- I am going to London for a time -- I can't stand the old woman. But all letters will be forwarded
You are not going to turn away like that, dear! Come
If you wish
See how you've mastered me
Now the other side, for old acquaintance' sake
You don't give me your mouth and kiss me back. You never willingly do that -- you'll never love me, I fear
I have said so, often. It is true. I have never really and truly loved you, and I think I never can
Perhaps, of all things, a lie on this thing would do the most good to me now; but I have honour enough left, little as 'tis, not to tell that lie. If I did love you, I may have the best o' causes for letting you know it. But I don't
Well, you are absurdly melancholy, Tess. I have no reason for flattering you now, and I can say plainly that you need not be so sad. You can hold your own for beauty against any woman of these parts, gentle or simple; I say it to you as a practical man and well-wisher. If you are wise you will show it to the world more than you do before it fades... And yet, Tess, will you come back to me! Upon my soul, I don't like to let you go like this
Never, never! I made up my mind as soon as I saw -- what I ought to have seen sooner; and I won't come
Then good morning, my four months' cousin -- good-bye
It is early to be astir this Sabbath morn
Yes
When most people are at rest from their week's work
Though I do more real work to-day than all the week besides
Do you
All the week I work for the glory of man, and on Sunday for the glory of God. That's more real than the other -- hey? I have a little to do here at this stile
If you'll wait a moment
I shall not be long
Alas, poor Theology
Do you believe what you paint
Believe that tex? Do I believe in my own existence
But
suppose your sin was not of your own seeking
I cannot split hairs on that burning query
I have walked hundreds of miles this past summer, painting these texes on every wall, gate, and stile the length and breadth of this district. I leave their application to the hearts of the people who read 'em
I think they are horrible
Crushing! Killing
That's what they are meant to be
But you should read my hottest ones -- them I kips for slums and seaports. They'd make ye wriggle! Not but what this is a very good tex for rural districts. ... Ah -- there's a nice bit of blank wall up by that barn standing to waste. I must put one there -- one that it will be good for dangerous young females like yerself to heed. Will ye wait, missy
No
If you want to ask for edification on these things of moment, there's a very earnest good man going to preach a charity-sermon to-day in the parish you are going to -- Mr Clare of Emminster. I'm not of his persuasion now, but he's a good man, and he'll expound as well as any parson I know. 'Twas he began the work in me
Pooh -- I don't believe God said such things
Well!-- my dear Tess
How be ye? I didn't see you till you was in upon me! Have you come home to be married
No, I have not come for that, mother
Then for a holiday
Yes -- for a holiday; for a long holiday
What, isn't your cousin going to do the handsome thing
He's not my cousin, and he's not going to marry me
Come, you have not told me all
And yet th'st not got him to marry 'ee
Any woman would have done it but you, after that
Perhaps any woman would except me
It would have been something like a story to come back with, if you had
After all the talk about you and him which has reached us here, who would have expected it to end like this! Why didn't ye think of doing some good for your family instead o' thinking only of yourself? See how I've got to teave and slave, and your poor weak father with his heart clogged like a dripping-pan. I did hope for something to come out o' this! To see what a pretty pair you and he made that day when you drove away together four months ago! See what he has given us -- all, as we thought, because we were his kin. But if he's not, it must have been done because of his love for 'ee. And yet you've not got him to marry
You ought to have been more careful if you didn't mean to get him to make you his wife
O mother, my mother
How could I be expected to know? I was a child when I left this house four months ago. Why didn't you tell me there was danger in men-folk? Why didn't you warn me? Ladies know what to fend hands against, because they read novels that tell them of these tricks; but I never had the chance o' learning in that way, and you did not help me
I thought if I spoke of his fond feelings and what they might lead to, you would be hontish wi' him and lose your chance
Well, we must make the best of it, I suppose. 'Tis nater, after all, and what do please God
How pretty she is; and how that best frock do set her off! I believe it cost an immense deal, and that it was a gift from him
in love with her own ruin
Langdon
She's fond of that there child, though she mid pretend to hate en, and say she wishes the baby and her too were in the churchyard
She'll soon leave off saying that
Lord, 'tis wonderful what a body can get used to o' that sort in time
A little more than persuading had to do wi' the coming o't, I reckon. There were they that heard a sobbing one night last year in The Chase; and it mid ha' gone hard wi' a certain party if folks had come along
Well, a little more, or a little less, 'twas a thousand pities that it should have happened to she, of all others. But 'tis always the comeliest! The plain ones be as safe as churches -- hey, Jenny
Ah, she makes herself unhappy
Ah, she bears it very well
O merciful God, have pity; have pity upon my poor baby
Heap as much anger as you want to upon me, and welcome; but pity the child
Ah! perhaps baby can be saved! Perhaps it will be just the same
Be you really going to christen him, Tess
What's his name going to be
SORROW, I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost
Say 'Amen,' children
Amen
We receive this child
and do sign him with the sign of the Cross
Amen
I should like to ask you something, sir
And now, sir
can you tell me this -- will it be just the same for him as if you had baptized him
My dear girl
it will be just the same
Then will you give him a Christian burial
Ah -- that's another matter
Another matter -- why
Well -- I would willingly do so if only we two were concerned. But I must not -- for certain reasons
Just for once, sir
Really I must not
O sir
Then I don't like you
and I'll never come to your church no more
Don't talk so rashly
Perhaps it will be just the same to him if you don't? ... Will it be just the same? Don't for God's sake speak as saint to sinner, but as you yourself to me myself -- poor me
It will be just the same
By experience
we find out a short way by a long wandering
Thou hast counselled a better course than Thou hast permitted
claim kin
Pooh -- I have as much of mother as father in me
All my prettiness comes from her, and she was only a dairymaid
O ye Sun and Moon ... O ye Stars ... ye Green Things upon the Earth ... ye Fowls of the Air ... Beasts and Cattle ... Children of Men ... bless ye the Lord, praise Him and magnify Him for ever
But perhaps I don't quite know the Lord as yet
Waow! waow! waow
Oh -- ay, as a lad I knowed your part o' the country very well
Though I've never been there since. And a aged woman of ninety that use to live nigh here, but is dead and gone long ago, told me that a family of some such name as yours in Blackmoor Vale came originally from these parts, and that 'twere a old ancient race that had all but perished off the earth -- though the new generations didn't know it. But, Lord, I took no notice of the old woman's ramblings, not I
Oh no -- it is nothing
You can milk 'em clean, my maidy? I don't want my cows going azew at this time o' year
Quite sure you can stand it? 'Tis comfortable enough here for rough folk; but we don't live in a cowcumber frame
Well, I suppose you'll want a dish o' tay, or victuals of some sort, hey? Not yet? Well, do as ye like about it. But faith, if 'twas I, I should be as dry as a kex wi' travelling so far
I'll begin milking now, to get my hand in
Oh, if ye can swaller that, be it so
'Tis what I hain't touched for years -- not I. Rot the stuff; it would lie in my innerds like lead. You can try your hand upon she
Not but what she do milk rather hard. We've hard ones and we've easy ones, like other folks. However, you'll find out that soon enough
go azew
To my thinking
to my thinking, the cows don't gie down their milk to-day as usual. Upon my life, if Winker do begin keeping back like this, she'll not be worth going under by midsummer
'Tis because there's a new hand come among us
I've noticed such things afore
To be sure. It may be so. I didn't think o't
I've been told that it goes up into their horns at such times
Well, as to going up into their horns
I couldn't say; I certainly could not. But as nott cows will keep it back as well as the horned ones, I don't quite agree to it. Do ye know that riddle about the nott cows, Jonathan? Why do nott cows give less milk in a year than horned
I don't
Why do they
Because there bain't so many of 'em
Howsomever, these gam'sters do certainly keep back their milk to-day. Folks, we must lift up a stave or two -- that's the only cure for't
I wish singing on the stoop didn't use up so much of a man's wind! You should get your harp, sir; not but what a fiddle is best
Why
Oh yes; there's nothing like a fiddle
Though I do think that bulls are more moved by a tune than cows -- at least that's my experience. Once there was an old aged man over at Mellstock -- William Dewy by name -- one of the family that used to do a good deal of business as tranters over there -- Jonathan, do ye mind?-- I knowed the man by sight as well as I know my own brother, in a manner of speaking. Well, this man was a coming home along from a wedding, where he had been playing his fiddle, one fine moonlight night, and for shortness' sake he took a cut across Forty-acres, a field lying that way, where a bull was out to grass. The bull seed William, and took after him, horns aground, begad; and though William runned his best, and hadn't MUCH drink in him (considering 'twas a wedding, and the folks well off), he found he'd never reach the fence and get over in time to save himself. Well, as a last thought, he pulled out his fiddle as he runned, and struck up a jig, turning to the bull, and backing towards the corner. The bull softened down, and stood still, looking hard at William Dewy, who fiddled on and on; till a sort of a smile stole over the bull's face. But no sooner did William stop his playing and turn to get over hedge than the bull would stop his smiling and lower his horns towards the seat of William's breeches. Well, William had to turn about and play on, willy-nilly; and 'twas only three o'clock in the world, and 'a knowed that nobody would come that way for hours, and he so leery and tired that 'a didn't know what to do. When he had scraped till about four o'clock he felt that he verily would have to give over soon, and he said to himself, 'There's only this last tune between me and eternal welfare! Heaven save me, or I'm a done man.' Well, then he called to mind how he'd seen the cattle kneel o' Christmas Eves in the dead o' night. It was not Christmas Eve then, but it came into his head to play a trick upon the bull. So he broke into the 'Tivity Hymm, just as at Christmas carol-singing; when, lo and behold, down went the bull on his bended knees, in his ignorance, just as if 'twere the true 'Tivity night and hour. As soon as his horned friend were down, William turned, clinked off like a long-dog, and jumped safe over hedge, before the praying bull had got on his feet again to take after him. William used to say that he'd seen a man look a fool a good many times, but never such a fool as that bull looked when he found his pious feelings had been played upon, and 'twas not Christmas Eve. ... Yes, William Dewy, that was the man's name; and I can tell you to a foot where's he a-lying in Mellstock Churchyard at this very moment -- just between the second yew-tree and the north aisle
It's a curious story; it carries us back to medieval times, when faith was a living thing
Well, 'tis quite true, sir, whether or no. I knowed the man well
Oh yes; I have no doubt of it
Take it gentle, sir; take it gentle
'Tis knack, not strength, that does it
So I find
I think I have finished her, however, though she made my fingers ache
How pretty she is
Mr Angel Clare -- he that is learning milking, and that plays the harp -- never says much to us. He is apa's on's son, and is too much taken up wi' his own thoughts to notice girls. He is the dairyman's pupil -- learning farming in all its branches. He has learnt sheep-farming at another place, and he's now mastering dairy-work.... Yes, he is quite the gentleman-born. His father is the Reverent Mr Clare at Emminster -- a good many miles from here
Oh -- I have heard of him
A very earnest clergyman, is he not
Yes -- that he is -- the earnestest man in all Wessex, they say -- the last of the old Low Church sort, they tell me -- for all about here be what they call High. All his sons, except our Mr Clare, be madepa's ons too
Why has this been sent to my house
It was ordered, sir
Not by me, or any one belonging to me, I am happy to say
Oh, it has been misdirected, sir
It was ordered by Mr Angel Clare, and should have been sent to him
Look into this book, my boy
What do you know about it
I ordered it
What for
To read
How can you think of reading it
How can I? Why -- it is a system of philosophy. There is no more moral, or even religious, work published
Yes -- moral enough; I don't deny that. But religious!-- and for YOU, who intend to be a minister of the Gospel
Since you have alluded to the matter, father
I should like to say, once for all, that I should prefer not to take Orders. I fear I could not conscientiously do so. I love the Church as one loves a parent. I shall always have the warmest affection for her. There is no institution for whose history I have a deeper admiration; but I cannot honestly be ordained her minister, as my brothers are, while she refuses to liberate her mind from an untenable redemptive theolatry
No, father; I cannot underwrite Article Four (leave alone the rest), taking it 'in the literal and grammatical sense' as required by the Declaration; and, therefore, I can't be a parson in the present state of affairs
My whole instinct in matters of religion is towards reconstruction; to quote your favorite Epistle to the Hebrews, 'the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain
What is the good of your mother and me economizing and stinting ourselves to give you a University education, if it is not to be used for the honour and glory of God
Why, that it may be used for the honour and glory of man, father
I will do without Cambridge
I feel that I have no right to go there in the circumstances
_A mesure qu'on a plus d'esprit, on trouve qu'il y a plus d'hommes originaux. Les gens du commun ne trouvent pas de difference entre les hommes
What a fluty voice one of those milkmaids has! I suppose it is the new one
I don't know about ghosts
but I do know that our souls can be made to go outside our bodies when we are alive
What -- really now? And is it so, maidy
A very easy way to feel 'em go
is to lie on the grass at night and look straight up at some big bright star; and, by fixing your mind upon it, you will soon find that you are hundreds and hundreds o' miles away from your body, which you don't seem to want at all
Now that's a rum thing, Christianer -- hey? To think o' the miles I've vamped o' starlight nights these last thirty year, courting, or trading, or for doctor, or for nurse, and yet never had the least notion o' that till now, or feeled my soul rise so much as an inch above my shirt-collar
What a fresh and virginal daughter of Nature that milkmaid is
Mr Clare, you have ranged the cows
Well, it makes no difference
You will always be here to milk them
Do you think so? I HOPE I shall! But I don't KNOW
What makes you draw off in that way, Tess
Are you afraid
Oh no, sir -- not of outdoor things; especially just now when the apple-blooth is falling, and everything is so green
But you have your indoor fears -- eh
Well -- yes, sir
What of
I couldn't quite say
The milk turning sour
No
Life in general
Yes, sir
Ah -- so have I, very often. This hobble of being alive is rather serious, don't you think so
It is -- now you put it that way
All the same, I shouldn't have expected a young girl like you to see it so just yet. How is it you do
Come, Tess, tell me in confidence
The trees have inquisitive eyes, haven't they?-- that is, seem as if they had. And the river says,-- 'Why do ye trouble me with your looks?' And you seem to see numbers of to-morrows just all in a line, the first of them the biggest and clearest, the others getting smaller and smaller as they stand farther away; but they all seem very fierce and cruel and as if they said, 'I'm coming! Beware of me! Beware of me!' ... But YOU, sir, can raise up dreams with your music, and drive all such horrid fancies away
My soul chooseth strangling and death rather than my life. I loathe it; I would not live alway
Why do you look so woebegone all of a sudden
Oh, 'tis only -- about my own self
Just a sense of what might have been with me! My life looks as if it had been wasted for want of chances! When I see what you know, what you have read, and seen, and thought, I feel what a nothing I am! I'm like the poor Queen of Sheba who lived in the Bible. There is no more spirit in me
Bless my soul, don't go troubling about that! Why
I should be only too glad, my dear Tess, to help you to anything in the way of history, or any line of reading you would like to take up
It is a lady again
What
I meant that there are always more ladies than lords when you come to peel them
Never mind about the lords and ladies. Would you like to take up any course of study -- history, for example
Sometimes I feel I don't want to know anything more about it than I know already
Why not
Because what's the use of learning that I am one of a long row only -- finding out that there is set down in some old book somebody just like me, and to know that I shall only act her part; making me sad, that's all. The best is not to remember that your nature and your past doings have been just like thousands' and thousands', and that your coming life and doings 'll be like thousands's and thousands'
What, really, then, you don't want to learn anything
I shouldn't mind learning why -- why the sun do shine on the just and the unjust alike
But that's what books will not tell me
Tess, fie for such bitterness
Mr Clare
is one of the most rebellest rozums you ever knowed -- not a bit like the rest of his family; and if there's one thing that he do hate more than another 'tis the notion of what's called a' old family. He says that it stands to reason that old families have done their spurt of work in past days, and can't have anything left in 'em now. There's the Billets and the Drenkhards and the Greys and the St Quintins and the Hardys and the Goulds, who used to own the lands for miles down this valley; you could buy 'em all up now for an old song a'most. Why, our little Retty Priddle here, you know, is one of the Paridelles -- the old family that used to own lots o' the lands out by King's Hintock, now owned by the Earl o' Wessex, afore even he or his was heard of. Well, Mr Clare found this out, and spoke quite scornful to the poor girl for days. 'Ah!' he says to her, 'you'll never make a good dairymaid! All your skill was used up ages ago in Palestine, and you must lie fallow for a thousand years to git strength for more deeds!' A boy came here t'other day asking for a job, and said his name was Matt, and when we asked him his surname he said he'd never heard that 'a had any surname, and when we asked why, he said he supposed his folks hadn't been 'stablished long enough. 'Ah! you're the very boy I want!' says Mr Clare, jumping up and shaking hands wi'en; 'I've great hopes of you;' and gave him half-a-crown. O no! he can't stomach old families
Whither does this new current tend to carry me? What does it mean to my future? How does it stand towards my past
Call me Tess
For Heaven's sake, pop thy hands under the pump, Deb! Upon my soul, if the London folk only knowed of thee and thy slovenly ways, they'd swaller their milk and butter more mincing than they doa're ady; and that's saying a good deal
'Tis years since I went to Conjuror Trendle's son in Egdon -- years
And he was nothing to what his father had been. I have said fifty times, if I have said once, that I DON'T believe in en; though 'a do cast folks' waters very true. But I shall have to go to 'n if he's alive. O yes, I shall have to go to 'n, if this sort of thing continnys
Conjuror Fall, t'other side of Casterbridge, that they used to call 'Wide-O', was a very good man when I was a boy
But he's rotten as touchwood by now
My grandfather used to go to Conjuror Mynterne, out at Owlscombe, and a clever man a' were, so I've heard grandf'er say
But there's no such genuine folk about nowadays
Perhaps somebody in the house is in love
I've heard tell in my younger days that that will cause it. Why, Crick -- that maid we had years ago, do ye mind, and how the butter didn't come then
Ah yes, yes!-- but that isn't the rights o't. It had nothing to do with the love-making. I can mind all about it --'twas the damage to the churn
Jack Dollop, a 'hore's-bird of a fellow we had here as milker at one time, sir, courted a young woman over at Mellstock, and deceived her as he had deceived many afore. But he had another sort o' woman to reckon wi' this time, and it was not the girl herself. One Holy Thursday of all days in the almanack, we was here as we mid be now, only there was no churning in hand, when we zid the girl's mother coming up to the door, wi' a great brass-mounted umbrella in her hand that would ha' felled an ox, and saying 'Do Jack Dollop work here?-- because I want him! I have a big bone to pick with he, I can assure 'n!' And some way behind her mother walked Jack's young woman, crying bitterly into her handkercher. 'O Lard, here's a time!' said Jack, looking out o' winder at 'em. 'She'll murder me! Where shall I get -- where shall I --? Don't tell her where I be!' And with that he scrambled into the churn through the trap-door, and shut himself inside, just as the young woman's mother busted into the milk-house. 'The villain -- where is he?' says she. 'I'll claw his face for'n, let me only catch him!' Well, she hunted about everywhere, ballyragging Jack by side and by seam, Jack lying a'most stifled inside the churn, and the poor maid -- or young woman rather -- standing at the door crying her eyes out. I shall never forget it, never! 'Twould have melted a marble stone! But she couldn't find him nowhere at all
Well, how the old woman should have had the wit to guess it I could never tell, but she found out that he was inside that there churn. Without saying a word she took hold of the winch (it was turned by handpower then), and round she swung him, and Jack began to flop about inside. 'O Lard! stop the churn! let me out!' says he, popping out his head. 'I shall be churned into a pummy!' (He was a cowardly chap in his heart, as such men mostly be). 'Not till ye make amends for ravaging her virgin innocence!' says the old woman. 'Stop the churn you old witch!' screams he. 'You call me old witch, do ye, you deceiver!' says she, 'when ye ought to ha' been calling me mother-law these last five months!' And on went the churn, and Jack's bones rattled round again. Well, none of us ventured to interfere; and at last 'a promised to make it right wi' her. 'Yes -- I'll be as good as my word!' he said. And so it ended that day
How warm 'tis to-day
the prettiest milker I've got in my dairy; you mustn't get so fagged as this at the first breath of summer weather, or we shall be finely put to for want of 'ee by dog-days, shan't we, Mr Clare
I was faint -- and -- I think I am better out o' doors
'Tis coming
Don't push! You can see as well as I
'Tis no use for you to be in love with him any more than me, Retty Priddle
His thoughts be of other cheeks than thine
There he is again
You needn't say anything, Izz
For I zid you kissing his shade
WHAT did you see her doing
Why -- he was standing over the whey-tub to let off the whey, and the shade of his face came upon the wall behind, close to Izz, who was standing there filling a vat. She put her mouth against the wall and kissed the shade of his mouth; I zid her, though he didn't
O Izz Huett
Well, there was no harm in it
And if I be in love wi'en, so is Retty, too; and so be you, Marian, come to that
I
What a tale! Ah, there he is again! Dear eyes -- dear face -- dear Mr Clare
There -- you've owned it
So have you -- so have we all
It is silly to pretend otherwise amongst ourselves, though we need not own it to other folks. I would just marry 'n to-morrow
So would I -- and more
And I too
We can't all marry him
We shan't, either of us; which is worse still
There he is again
Why
Because he likes Tess Durbeyfield best
I have watched him every day, and have found it out
But she don't care anything for 'n
Well -- I sometimes think that too
But how silly all this is
Of course he won't marry any one of us, or Tess either -- a gentleman's son, who's going to be a great landowner and farmer abroad! More likely to ask us to come wi'en as farm-hands at so much a year
And begad, so 't have
Yes -- taste for yourself
'Tis garlic! and I thought there wasn't a blade left in that mead
We must overhaul that mead
this mustn't continny
Well, how are you
Very well, thank you, sir
Upon my soul and body, this here stooping do fairly make my back open and shut
And you, maidy Tess, you wasn't well a day or two ago -- this will make your head ache finely! Don't do any more, if you feel fainty; leave the rest to finish it
Don't they look pretty
Who
Izzy Huett and Retty
Pretty? Well, yes -- they are pretty girls -- fresh looking. I have often thought so
Though, poor dears, prettiness won't last long
O no, unfortunately
They are excellent dairywomen
Yes: though not better than you
They skim better than I
Do they
She is colouring up
Who
Retty Priddle
Oh! Why it that
Because you are looking at her
Marry one of them, if you really do want a dairywoman and not a lady; and don't think of marrying me
Who would have expected such a rise in the river in summer-time
We can't get there anyhow, without walking right through it, or else going round the Turnpike way; and that would make us so very late
And I do colour up so hot, walking into church late, and all the people staring round
that I hardly cool down again till we get into the That-it-may-please-Thees
He's not going to church
No -- I wish he was
Are you trying to get to church
Yes, sir; and 'tis getting late; and my colour do come up so
I'll carry you through the pool -- every Jill of you
I think you can't, sir
It is the only way for you to get past. Stand still. Nonsense -- you are not too heavy! I'd carry you all four together. Now, Marian, attend
and put your arms round my shoulders, so. Now! Hold on. That's well done
Here he comes
And I have to put my arms round his neck and look into his face as Marian did
There's nothing in that
There's a time for everything
A time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing; the first is now going to be mine
Fie -- it is Scripture, Izz
Yes
I've always a' ear at church for pretty verses
It will soon be you and I
I may be able to clim' along the bank perhaps -- I can clim' better than they. You must be so tired, Mr Clare
No, no, Tess
Three Leahs to get one Rachel
They are better women than I
Not to me
I hope I am not too heavy
O no. You should lift Marian! Such a lump. You are like an undulating billow warmed by the sun. And all this fluff of muslin about you is the froth
It is very pretty -- if I seem like that to you
Do you know that I have undergone three-quarters of this labour entirely for the sake of the fourth quarter
No
I did not expect such an event to-day
Nor I... The water came up so sudden
O Tessy
No -- in all truth; we have no chance against her
What do you mean
He likes 'ee best -- the very best! We could see it as he brought 'ee. He would have kissed 'ee, if you had encouraged him to do it, ever so little
No, no
I will never stand in your way, nor in the way of either of you
I can't help this, my dear! I don't think marrying is in his mind at all; but if he were ever to ask me I should refuse him, as I should refuse any man
Oh! would you? Why
It cannot be! But I will be plain. Putting myself quite on one side, I don't think he will choose either of you
I have never expected it -- thought of it
But O! I wish I was dead
We be friends with her again
She thinks no more of his choosing her than we do
I don't seem to care what I do now
I was going to marry a dairyman at Stickleford, who's asked me twice; but -- my soul -- I would put an end to myself rather'n be his wife now! Why don't ye speak, Izz
To confess, then
I made sure to-day that he was going to kiss me as he held me; and I lay still against his breast, hoping and hoping, and never moved at all. But he did not. I don't like biding here at Talbothays any longer! I shall go hwome
B' you awake, Tess
So be we
I wonder what she is like -- the lady they say his family have looked out for him
I wonder
Some lady looked out for him
I have never heard o' that
O yes --'tis whispered; a young lady of his own rank, chosen by his family; a Doctor of Divinity's daughter near his father's parish of Emminster; he don't much care for her, they say. But he is sure to marry her
Forgive me, Tess dear
I ought to have asked. I -- did not know what I was doing. I do not mean it as a liberty. I am devoted to you, Tessy, dearest, in all sincerity
She is angry -- she doesn't know what we mean -- she'll kick over the milk
Why do you cry, my darling
O -- I don't know
Well, I have betrayed my feeling, Tess, at last
That I -- love you dearly and truly I need not say. But I -- it shall go no further now -- it distresses you -- I am as surprised as you are. You will not think I have presumed upon your defencelessness -- been too quick and unreflecting, will you
N'-- I can't tell
Stay
O no
Mr Clare has gone hwome to Emminster to spend a few days wi' his kinsfolk
He's getting on towards the end of his time wi' me
and so I suppose he is beginning to see about his plans elsewhere
How much longer is he to bide here
Well, I can't mind the exact day without looking at my memorandum-book
And even that may be altered a bit. He'll bide to get a little practice in the calving out at the straw-yard, for certain. He'll hang on till the end of the year I should say
I suppose it is farming or nothing for you now, my dear fellow
And, therefore, we must make the best of it. But I do entreat you to endeavour to keep as much as possible in touch with moral ideals. Farming, of course, means roughing it externally; but high thinking may go with plain living, nevertheless
Of course it may
Was it not proved nineteen hundred years ago -- if I may trespass upon your domain a little? Why should you think, Felix, that I am likely to drop my high thinking and my moral ideals
Well, I fancied, from the tone of your letters and our conversation -- it may be fancy only -- that you were somehow losing intellectual grasp. Hasn't it struck you, Cuthbert
Now, Felix
we are very good friends, you know; each of us treading our allotted circles; but if it comes to intellectual grasp, I think you, as a contented dogmatist, had better leave mine alone, and inquire what has become of yours
Ah! you are looking for the black-puddings, my dear boy
But I am sure you will not mind doing without them as I am sure your father and I shall not, when you know the reason. I suggested to him that we should take Mrs Crick's kind present to the children of the man who can earn nothing just now because of his attacks of delirium tremens; and he agreed that it would be a great pleasure to them; so we did
Of course
I found the mead so extremely alcoholic
that it was quite unfit for use as a beverage, but as valuable as rum or brandy in an emergency; so I have put it in my medicine-closet
We never drink spirits at this table, on principle
But what shall I tell the dairyman's wife
The truth, of course
I rather wanted to say we enjoyed the mead and the black-puddings very much. She is a kind, jolly sort of body, and is sure to ask me directly I return
You cannot, if we did not
Ah -- no; though that mead was a drop of pretty tipple
A what
Oh --'tis an expression they use down at Talbothays
As far as worldly wealth goes
you will no doubt stand far superior to your brothers in a few years
What kind of wife do you think would be best for me as a thrifty hard-working farmer
A truly Christian woman, who will be a help and a comfort to you in your goings-out and your comings-in. Beyond that, it really matters little. Such an one can be found; indeed, my earnest-minded friend and neighbour, Dr Chant
But ought she not primarily to be able to milk cows, churn good butter, make immense cheeses; know how to sit hens and turkeys and rear chickens, to direct a field of labourers in an emergency, and estimate the value of sheep and calves
Yes; a farmer's wife; yes, certainly. It would be desirable
I was going to add
that for a pure and saintly woman you will not find one more to your true advantage, and certainly not more to your mother's mind and my own, than your friend Mercy, whom you used to show a certain interest in. It is true that my neighbour Chant's daughter had lately caught up the fashion of the younger clergy round about us for decorating the Communion-table -- altar, as I was shocked to hear her call it one day -- with flowers and other stuff on festival occasions. But her father, who is quite as opposed to such flummery as I, says that can be cured. It is a mere girlish outbreak which, I am sure, will not be permanent
Yes, yes; Mercy is good and devout, I know. But, father, don't you think that a young woman equally pure and virtuous as Miss Chant, but one who, in place of that lady's ecclesiastical accomplishments, understands the duties of farm life as well as a farmer himself, would suit me infinitely better
Is she of a family such as you would care to marry into -- a lady, in short
She is not what in common parlance is called a lady
for she is a cottager's daughter, as I am proud to say. But she IS a lady, nevertheless -- in feeling and nature
Mercy Chant is of a very good family
Pooh!-- what's the advantage of that, mother
How is family to avail the wife of a man who has to rough it as I have, and shall have to do
Mercy is accomplished. And accomplishments have their charm
As to external accomplishments, what will be the use of them in the life I am going to lead?-- while as to her reading, I can take that in hand. She'll be apt pupil enough, as you would say if you knew her. She's brim full of poetry -- actualized poetry, if I may use the expression. She LIVES what paper-poets only write... And she is an unimpeachable Christian, I am sure; perhaps of the very tribe, genus, and species you desire to propagate
O Angel, you are mocking
Mother, I beg pardon. But as she really does attend Church almost every Sunday morning, and is a good Christian girl, I am sure you will tolerate any social shortcomings for the sake of that quality, and feel that I may do worse than choose her
Pernicious
Not one of the ancient d'Urbervilles of Kingsbere and other places
That curiously historic worn-out family with its ghostly legend of the coach-and-four
O no. The original d'Urbervilles decayed and disappeared sixty or eighty years ago -- at least, I believe so. This seems to be a new family which had taken the name; for the credit of the former knightly line I hope they are spurious, I'm sure. But it is odd to hear you express interest in old families. I thought you set less store by them even than I
You misapprehend me, father; you often do
Politically I am sceptical as to the virtue of their being old. Some of the wise even among themselves 'exclaim against their own succession,' as Hamlet puts it; but lyrically, dramatically, and even historically, I am tenderly attached to them
Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee
Dear father
I wish you would not expose yourself to such gratuitous pain from scoundrels
Pain
The only pain to me was pain on his account, poor, foolish young man. Do you suppose his incensed words could give me any pain, or even his blows? 'Being reviled we bless; being persecuted we suffer it; being defamed we entreat; we are made as the filth of the world, and as the offscouring of all things unto this day.' Those ancient and noble words to the Corinthians are strictly true at this present hour
Not blows, father? He did not proceed to blows
No, he did not. Though I have borne blows from men in a mad state of intoxication
No
A dozen times, my boy. What then? I have saved them from the guilt of murdering their own flesh and blood thereby; and they have lived to thank me, and praise God
May this young man do the same
But I fear otherwise, from what you say
We'll hope, nevertheless
And I continue to pray for him, though on this side of the grave we shall probably never meet again. But, after all, one of those poor words of mine may spring up in his heart as a good seed some day
O Mr Clare! How you frightened me -- I
Dear, darling Tessy
Don't, for Heaven's sake, Mister me any more. I have hastened back so soon because of you
I've got to go a-skimming
and I have on'y old Deb to help me to-day. Mrs Crick is gone to market with Mr Crick, and Retty is not well, and the others are gone out somewhere, and won't be home till milking
I have come back, Deborah
So I can help Tess with the skimming; and, as you are very tired, I am sure, you needn't come down till milking-time
I may as well say it now as later, dearest
I wish to ask you something of a very practical nature, which I have been thinking of ever since that day last week in the meads. I shall soon want to marry, and, being a farmer, you see I shall require for my wife a woman who knows all about the management of farms. Will you be that woman, Tessy
O Mr Clare -- I cannot be your wife -- I cannot be
But, Tess
Do you say no? Surely you love me
O yes, yes! And I would rather be yours than anybody's in the world
But I CANNOT marry you
Tess
you are engaged to marry some one else
No, no
Then why do you refuse me
I don't want to marry! I have not thought of doing it. I cannot! I only want to love you
But why
Your father is a parson, and your mother wouldn' like you to marry such as me. She will want you to marry a lady
Nonsense -- I have spoken to them both. That was partly why I went home
I feel I cannot -- never, never
Is it too sudden to be asked thus, my Pretty
Yes -- I did not expect it
If you will let it pass, please, Tessy, I will give you time
It was very abrupt to come home and speak to you all at once. I'll not allude to it again for a while
I can't skim -- I can't
I don't know
You go to church very regularly, and our parson here is not very High, they tell me
I wish I could fix my mind on what I hear there more firmly than I do
It is often a great sorrow to me
I fancied you looked a little downcast when you came in
Yes -- well, my father had been talking a good deal to me of his troubles and difficulties, and the subject always tends to depress me. He is so zealous that he gets many snubs and buffetings from people of a different way of thinking from himself, and I don't like to hear of such humiliations to a man of his age, the more particularly as I don't think earnestness does any good when carried so far. He has been telling me of a very unpleasant scene in which he took part quite recently. He went as the deputy of some missionary society to preach in the neighbourhood of Trantridge, a place forty miles from here, and made it his business to expostulate with a lax young cynic he met with somewhere about there -- son of some landowner up that way -- and who has a mother afflicted with blindness. My father addressed himself to the gentleman point-blank, and there was quite a disturbance. It was very foolish of my father, I must say, to intrude his conversation upon a stranger when the probabilities were so obvious that it would be useless. But whatever he thinks to be his duty, that he'll do, in season or out of season; and, of course, he makes many enemies, not only among the absolutely vicious, but among the easy-going, who hate being bothered. He says he glories in what happened, and that good may be done indirectly; but I wish he would not wear himself out now he is getting old, and would leave such pigs to their wallowing
And my question, Tessy
O no -- no
It CAN'T be
Tess, why did you say 'no' in such a positive way
Don't ask me. I told you why -- partly. I am not good enough -- not worthy enough
How? Not fine lady enough
Yes -- something like that
Your friends would scorn me
Indeed, you mistake them -- my father and mother. As for my brothers, I don't care
Now -- you did not mean it, sweet?-- I am sure you did not! You have made me so restless that I cannot read, or play, or do anything. I am in no hurry, Tess, but I want to know -- to hear from your own warm lips -- that you will some day be mine -- any time you may choose; but some day
Then I ought not to hold you in this way -- ought I? I have no right to you -- no right to seek out where you are, or walk with you! Honestly, Tess, do you love any other man
How can you ask
I almost know that you do not. But then, why do you repulse me
I don't repulse you. I like you to -- tell me you love me; and you may always tell me so as you go about with me -- and never offend me
But you will not accept me as a husband
Ah -- that's different -- it is for your good, indeed, my dearest! O, believe me, it is only for your sake! I don't like to give myself the great happiness o' promising to be yours in that way -- because -- because I am SURE I ought not to do it
But you will make me happy
Ah -- you think so, but you don't know
Why don't somebody tell him all about me
It was only forty miles off -- why hasn't it reached here? Somebody must know
Is coyness longer necessary? Truth is truth between man and woman, as between man and man
Do you know why I did that, Tess
Because you love me very much
Yes, and as a preliminary to a new entreaty
Not AGAIN
O, Tessy
I CANNOT think why you are so tantalizing. Why do you disappoint me so? You seem almost like a coquette, upon my life you do -- a coquette of the first urban water! They blow hot and blow cold, just as you do, and it is the very last sort of thing to expect to find in a retreat like Talbothays. ... And yet, dearest
I know you to be the most honest, spotless creature that ever lived. So how can I suppose you a flirt? Tess, why don't you like the idea of being my wife, if you love me as you seem to do
I have never said I don't like the idea, and I never could say it; because -- it isn't true
Tell me, tell me
do tell me that you won't belong to anybody but me
I will, I will tell you
And I will give you a complete answer, if you will let me go now. I will tell you my experiences -- all about myself -- all
Your experiences, dear; yes, certainly; any number
My Tess, no doubt, almost as many experiences as that wild convolvulus out there on the garden hedge, that opened itself this morning for the first time. Tell me anything, but don't use that wretched expression any more about not being worthy of me
I will try -- not! And I'll give you my reasons to-morrow -- next week
Say on Sunday
Yes, on Sunday
waow-waow
I shall give way -- I shall say yes -- I shall let myself marry him -- I cannot help it
I can't bear to let anybody have him but me! Yet it is a wrong to him, and may kill him when he knows! O my heart -- O -- O -- O
Now, who mid ye think I've heard news o' this morning
Now, just who mid ye think
Well
'tis that slack-twisted 'hore's-bird of a feller, Jack Dollop. He's lately got married to a widow-woman
Not Jack Dollop? A villain -- to think o' that
And had he married the valiant matron's daughter, as he promised
Not he, sir. Never meant to
As I say, 'tis a widow-woman, and she had money, it seems -- fifty poun' a year or so; and that was all he was after. They were married in a great hurry; and then she told him that by marrying she had lost her fifty poun' a year. Just fancy the state o' my gentleman's mind at that news! Never such a cat-and-dog life as they've been leading ever since! Serves him well beright. But onluckily the poor woman gets the worst o't
Well, the silly body should have told en sooner that the ghost of her first man would trouble him
Ay, ay
Still, you can see exactly how 'twas. She wanted a home, and didn't like to run the risk of losing him. Don't ye think that was something like it, maidens
She ought to ha' told him just before they went to church, when he could hardly have backed out
Yes, she ought
She must have seen what he was after, and should ha' refused him
And what do you say, my dear
I think she ought -- to have told him the true state of things -- or else refused him -- I don't know
Be cust if I'd have done either o't
All's fair in love and war. I'd ha' married en just as she did, and if he'd said two words to me about not telling him beforehand anything whatsomdever about my first chap that I hadn't chose to tell, I'd ha' knocked him down wi' the rolling-pin -- a scram little feller like he! Any woman could do it
Tessy
My wife -- soon
No, no; I cannot. For your sake, O Mr Clare; for your sake, I say no
Tess
Still I say no
I can never be his wife
Now, Miss Flirt, before you go down
It is a fortnight since I spoke, and this won't do any longer. You MUST tell me what you mean, or I shall have to leave this house. My door was ajar just now, and I saw you. For your own safety I must go. You don't know. Well? Is it to be yes at last
I am only just up, Mr Clare, and it is too early to take me to task
You need not call me Flirt. 'Tis cruel and untrue. Wait till by and by. Please wait till by and by! I will really think seriously about it between now and then. Let me go downstairs
Call me Angel, then, and not Mr Clare
Angel
Angel dearest -- why not
'Twould mean that I agree, wouldn't it
It would only mean that you love me, even if you cannot marry me; and you were so good as to own that long ago
Very well, then, 'Angel dearest', if I MUST
Our tremulous lives are so different from theirs, are they not
Not so very different, I think
Why do you think that
There are very few women's lives that are not -- tremulous
There's more in those three than you think
What is in them
Almost either of 'em
would make -- perhaps would make -- a properer wife than I. And perhaps they love you as well as I -- almost
O, Tessy
Why, 'tis later than I thought
Begad! We shan't be soon enough with this milk at the station, if we don't mind. There's no time to-day to take it home and mix it with the bulk afore sending off. It must go to station straight from here. Who'll drive it across
I ought not to have come, I suppose
I am sorry for the rain
But how glad I am to have you here
I am so afraid you will get cold, with nothing upon your arms and shoulders
Creep close to me, and perhaps the drizzle won't hurt you much. I should be sorrier still if I did not think that the rain might be helping me
Now we are all right again. Ah -- no we are not! It runs down into my neck a little, and it must still more into yours. That's better. Your arms are like wet marble, Tess. Wipe them in the cloth. Now, if you stay quiet, you will not get another drop. Well, dear -- about that question of mine -- that long-standing question
Do you remember what you said
I do
Before we get home, mind
I'll try
That
is an interesting old place -- one of the several seats which belonged to an ancient Norman family formerly of great influence in this county, the d'Urbervilles. I never pass one of their residences without thinking of them. There is something very sad in the extinction of a family of renown, even if it was fierce, domineering, feudal renown
Yes
Londoners will drink it at their breakfasts to-morrow, won't they
Strange people that we have never seen
Yes -- I suppose they will. Though not as we send it. When its strength has been lowered, so that it may not get up into their heads
Noble men and noble women, ambassadors and centurions, ladies and tradeswomen, and babies who have never seen a cow
Well, yes; perhaps; particularly centurions
Who don't know anything of us, and where it comes from; or think how we two drove miles across the moor to-night in the rain that it might reach 'em in time
We did not drive entirely on account of these precious Londoners; we drove a little on our own -- on account of that anxious matter which you will, I am sure, set at rest, dear Tess. Now, permit me to put it in this way. You belong to me already, you know; your heart, I mean. Does it not
You know as well as I. O yes -- yes
Then, if your heart does, why not your hand
My only reason was on account of you -- on account of a question. I have something to tell you
But suppose it to be entirely for my happiness, and my worldly convenience also
O yes; if it is for your happiness and worldly convenience. But my life before I came here -- I want
Well, it is for my convenience as well as my happiness. If I have a very large farm, either English or colonial, you will be invaluable as a wife to me; better than a woman out of the largest mansion in the country. So please -- please, dear Tessy, disabuse your mind of the feeling that you will stand in my way
But my history. I want you to know it -- you must let me tell you -- you will not like me so well
Tell it if you wish to, dearest. This precious history then. Yes, I was born at so and so, Anno Domini
I was born at Marlott
And I grew up there. And I was in the Sixth Standard when I left school, and they said I had great aptness, and should make a good teacher, so it was settled that I should be one. But there was trouble in my family; father was not very industrious, and he drank a little
Yes, yes. Poor child! Nothing new
And then -- there is something very unusual about it -- about me. I -- I was
Yes, dearest. Never mind
I -- I -- am not a Durbeyfield, but a d'Urberville -- a descendant of the same family as those that owned the old house we passed. And -- we are all gone to nothing
A d'Urberville!-- Indeed! And is that all the trouble, dear Tess
Yes
Well -- why should I love you less after knowing this
I was told by the dairyman that you hated old families
Well, it is true, in one sense. I do hate the aristocratic principle of blood before everything, and do think that as reasoners the only pedigrees we ought to respect are those spiritual ones of the wise and virtuous, without regard to corporal paternity. But I am extremely interested in this news -- you can have no idea how interested I am! Are you not interested yourself in being one of that well-known line
No. I have thought it sad -- especially since coming here, and knowing that many of the hills and fields I see once belonged to my father's people. But other hills and field belonged to Retty's people, and perhaps others to Marian's, so that I don't value it particularly
Yes -- it is surprising how many of the present tillers of the soil were once owners of it, and I sometimes wonder that a certain school of politicians don't make capital of the circumstance; but they don't seem to know it... I wonder that I did not see the resemblance of your name to d'Urberville, and trace the manifest corruption. And this was the carking secret
Of course
I should have been glad to know you to be descended exclusively from the long-suffering, dumb, unrecorded rank and file of the English nation, and not from the self-seeking few who made themselves powerful at the expense of the rest. But I am corrupted away from that by my affection for you, Tess (he laughed as he spoke), and made selfish likewise. For your own sake I rejoice in your descent. Society is hopelessly snobbish, and this fact of your extraction may make an appreciable difference to its acceptance of you as my wife, after I have made you the well-read woman that I mean to make you. My mother too, poor soul, will think so much better of you on account of it. Tess, you must spell your name correctly -- d'Urberville -- from this very day
I like the other way rather best
But you MUST, dearest! Good heavens, why dozens of mushroom millionaires would jump at such a possession! By the bye, there's one of that kidney who has taken the name -- where have I heard of him?-- Up in the neighbourhood of The Chase, I think. Why, he is the very man who had that rumpus with my father I told you of. What an odd coincidence
Angel, I think I would rather not take the name! It is unlucky, perhaps
Now then, Mistress Teresa d'Urberville, I have you. Take my name, and so you will escape yours! The secret is out, so why should you any longer refuse me
If it is SURE to make you happy to have me as your wife, and you feel that you do wish to marry me, VERY, VERY much
I do, dearest, of course
I mean, that it is only your wanting me very much, and being hardly able to keep alive without me, whatever my offences, that would make me feel I ought to say I will
You will -- you do say it, I know! You will be mine for ever and ever
Yes
Why do you cry, dearest
I can't tell -- quite!-- I am so glad to think -- of being yours, and making you happy
But this does not seem very much like gladness, my Tessy
I mean -- I cry because I have broken down in my vow! I said I would die unmarried
But, if you love me you would like me to be your husband
Yes, yes, yes! But O, I sometimes wish I had never been born
Now, my dear Tess, if I did not know that you are very much excited, and very inexperienced, I should say that remark was not very complimentary. How came you to wish that if you care for me? Do you care for me? I wish you would prove it in some way
How can I prove it more than I have done
Will this prove it more
There -- now do you believe
Yes. I never really doubted -- never, never
I must write to my mother
You don't mind my doing that
Of course not, dear child. You are a child to me, Tess, not to know how very proper it is to write to your mother at such a time, and how wrong it would be in me to object. Where does she live
At the same place -- Marlott. On the further side of Blackmoor Vale
Ah, then I HAVE seen you before this summer
Yes; at that dance on the green; but you would not dance with me. O, I hope that is of no ill-omen for us now
O mother, mother
You are not ashamed of owning me as yours before them
O no
But if it should reach the ears of your friends at Emminster that you are walking about like this with me, a milkmaid
The most bewitching milkmaid ever seen
They might feel it a hurt to their dignity
My dear girl -- a d'Urberville hurt the dignity of a Clare! It is a grand card to play -- that of your belonging to such a family, and I am reserving it for a grand effect when we are married, and have the proofs of your descent from Parson Tringham. Apart from that, my future is to be totally foreign to my family -- it will not affect even the surface of their lives. We shall leave this part of England -- perhaps England itself -- and what does it matter how people regard us here? You will like going, will you not
I am not worthy of you -- no, I am not
I won't have you speak like it, dear Tess! Distinction does not consist in the facile use of a contemptible set of conventions, but in being numbered among those who are true, and honest, and just, and pure, and lovely, and of good report -- as you are, my Tess
Why didn't you stay and love me when I -- was sixteen; living with my little sisters and brothers, and you danced on the green? O, why didn't you, why didn't you
Ah -- why didn't I stay
That is just what I feel. If I had only known! But you must not be so bitter in your regret -- why should you be
I should have had four years more of your heart than I can ever have now. Then I should not have wasted my time as I have done -- I should have had so much longer happiness
Do you not think you are just a wee bit capricious, fitful, Tess
I wanted to ask you something, and just then you ran away
Yes, perhaps I am capricious
No, Angel, I am not really so -- by nature, I mean
What did you want to ask me -- I am sure I will answer it
Well, you love me, and have agreed to marry me, and hence there follows a thirdly, 'When shall the day be
I like living like this
But I must think of starting in business on my own hook with the new year, or a little later. And before I get involved in the multifarious details of my new position, I should like to have secured my partner
But
to talk quite practically, wouldn't it be best not to marry till after all that?-- Though I can't bear the thought o' your going away and leaving me here
Of course you cannot -- and it is not best in this case. I want you to help me in many ways in making my start. When shall it be? Why not a fortnight from now
No
I have so many things to think of first
But
I knew how it would be if I sat so close to him
I said to myself, they are sure to come and catch us! But I wasn't really sitting on his knee, though it might ha' seemed as if I was almost
Well -- if so be you hadn't told us, I am sure we shouldn't ha' noticed that ye had been sitting anywhere at all in this light
Now, Christianer, that shows that folks should never fancy other folks be supposing things when they bain't. O no, I should never ha' thought a word of where she was a sitting to, if she hadn't told me -- not I
We are going to be married soon
Ah -- and be ye! Well, I am truly glad to hear it, sir. I've thought you mid do such a thing for some time. She's too good for a dairymaid -- I said so the very first day I zid her -- and a prize for any man; and what's more, a wonderful woman for a gentleman-farmer's wife; he won't be at the mercy of his baily wi' her at his side
He's going to marry her
How her face do show it
You BE going to marry him
Yes
When
Some day
YES -- going to MARRY him -- a gentleman
How it do seem! Almost more than I can think of
Yes
Was that because of love for her, or because other lips have touched there by now
I wasn't thinking o' that
I was on'y feeling all the strangeness o't -- that she is to be his wife, and nobody else. I don't say nay to it, nor either of us, because we did not think of it -- only loved him. Still, nobody else is to marry'n in the world -- no fine lady, nobody in silks and satins; but she who do live like we
Are you sure you don't dislike me for it
I don't know -- I don't know
I want to hate 'ee; but I cannot
That's how I feel
I can't hate her. Somehow she hinders me
He ought to marry one of you
Why
You are all better than I
We better than you
No, no, dear Tess
You are
O yes, yes, yes
He ought to have had one of you
I think I ought to make him even now! You would be better for him than -- I don't know what I'm saying! O! O
Get some water
She's upset by us, poor thing, poor thing
You are best for'n
More ladylike, and a better scholar than we, especially since he had taught 'ee so much. But even you ought to be proud. You BE proud, I'm sure
Yes, I am
and I am ashamed at so breaking down
You will think of us when you be his wife, Tess, and of how we told 'ee that we loved him, and how we tried not to hate you, and did not hate you, and could not hate you, because you were his choice, and we never hoped to be chose by him
It seems like tens of thousands of them
holding public-meetings in their market-places, arguing, preaching, quarrelling, sobbing, groaning, praying, and cursing
Did Crick speak to you to-day, dear, about his not wanting much assistance during the winter months
No
The cows are going dry rapidly
Yes. Six or seven went to the straw-barton yesterday, and three the day before, making nearly twenty in the straw already. Ah -- is it that the farmer don't want my help for the calving? O, I am not wanted here any more! And I have tried so hard to
Crick didn't exactly say that he would no longer require you. But, knowing what our relations were, he said in the most good-natured and respectful manner possible that he supposed on my leaving at Christmas I should take you with me, and on my asking what he would do without you he merely observed that, as a matter of fact, it was a time of year when he could do with a very little female help. I am afraid I was sinner enough to feel rather glad that he was in this way forcing your hand
I don't think you ought to have felt glad, Angel. Because 'tis always mournful not to be wanted, even if at the same time 'tis convenient
Well, it is convenient -- you have admitted that
Ah
What
I feel the red rising up at her having been caught! But why should I trifle so! We will not trifle -- life is too serious
It is. Perhaps I saw that before you did
So that, seriously, dearest Tess
since you will probably have to leave at Christmas, it is in every way desirable and convenient that I should carry you off then as my property. Besides, if you were not the most uncalculating girl in the world you would know that we could not go on like this for ever
I wish we could. That it would always be summer and autumn, and you always courting me, and always thinking as much of me as you have done through the past summer-time
I always shall
O, I know you will
Angel, I will fix the day when I will become yours for always
Don't you think 'twould have been better for us to wait till you were quite settled in your midland farm
To tell the truth, my Tess, I don't like you to be left anywhere away from my protection and sympathy
Then we will start off to examine some farms on the other side of London that I have heard of
and by March or April we will pay a visit to my father and mother
You was not called home this morning
What
It should ha' been the first time of asking to-day
You meant to be married New Year's Eve, deary
And there must be three times of asking. And now there be only two Sundays left between
Have ye forgot 'em, Mr Clare? The banns, I mean
No, I have not forgot 'em
Don't let them tease you about the banns. A licence will be quieter for us, and I have decided on a licence without consulting you. So if you go to church on Sunday morning you will not hear your own name, if you wished to
I didn't wish to hear it, dearest
I don't quite feel easy
All this good fortune may be scourged out of me afterwards by a lot of ill. That's how Heaven mostly does. I wish I could have had common banns
How thoughtful you've been
Even to the gloves and handkerchief! My own love -- how good, how kind
No, no, Tess; just an order to a tradeswoman in London -- nothing more
A comely maid that
True, comely enough. But unless I make a great mistake
I beg pardon, sir; 'twas a complete mistake. I thought she was another woman, forty miles from here
And was it a mistake
Not a bit of it. But I didn't want to hurt the gentleman's feelings -- not I
Could we put off our wedding till a little later
I mean if we wished
No, my love. Calm yourself. Do you mean that the fellow may have time to summon me for assault
No -- I only meant -- if it should have to be put off
We shall go away, a very long distance, hundreds of miles from these parts, and such as this can never happen again, and no ghost of the past reach there
Oh, nothing, dear
I am so sorry I disturbed you! But the reason is rather an amusing one: I fell asleep and dreamt that I was fighting that fellow again who insulted you, and the noise you heard was my pummelling away with my fists at my portmanteau, which I pulled out to-day for packing. I am occasionally liable to these freaks in my sleep. Go to bed and think of it no more
And as you wouldn't hear of my gieing a rattling good randy wi' fiddles and bass-viols complete, as we should ha' done in old times, this was all I could think o' as a noiseless thing
I am so anxious to talk to you -- I want to confess all my faults and blunders
No, no -- we can't have faults talked of -- you must be deemed perfect to-day at least, my Sweet
We shall have plenty of time, hereafter, I hope, to talk over our failings. I will confess mine at the same time
But it would be better for me to do it now, I think, so that you could not say
Well, my quixotic one, you shall tell me anything -- say, as soon as we are settled in our lodging; not now. I, too, will tell you my faults then. But do not let us spoil the day with them; they will be excellent matter for a dull time
Then you don't wish me to, dearest
I do not, Tessy, really
I fancy you seem oppressed, Tessy
Yes
I tremble at many things. It is all so serious, Angel. Among other things I seem to have seen this carriage before, to be very well acquainted with it. It is very odd -- I must have seen it in a dream
Oh -- you have heard the legend of the d'Urberville Coach -- that well-known superstition of this county about your family when they were very popular here; and this lumbering old thing reminds you of it
I have never heard of it to my knowledge
What is the legend -- may I know it
Well -- I would rather not tell it in detail just now. A certain d'Urberville of the sixteenth or seventeenth century committed a dreadful crime in his family coach; and since that time members of the family see or hear the old coach whenever -- But I'll tell you another day -- it is rather gloomy. Evidently some dim knowledge of it has been brought back to your mind by the sight of this venerable caravan
I don't remember hearing it before
Is it when we are going to die, Angel, that members of my family see it, or is it when we have committed a crime
Now, Tess
These violent delights have violent ends
O my love, why do I love you so
for she you love is not my real self, but one in my image; the one I might have been
Will you kiss 'em all, once, poor things, for the first and last time
Oh
An afternoon crow
That's bad
Well
I don't like to hear him
Tell the man to drive on. Goodbye, goodbye
Hoosh! Just you be off, sir, or I'll twist your neck
Now, to think o' that just to-day! I've not heard his crow of an afternoon all the year afore
It only means a change in the weather
not what you think: 'tis impossible
Welcome to one of your ancestral mansions
What's the matter
Those horrid women
How they frightened me
Whose portraits are those
I have been told by old folk that they were ladies of the d'Urberville family, the ancient lords of this manor
Owing to their being builded into the wall they can't be moved away
Which are my fingers and which are yours
They are very much mixed
They are all yours
She is a dear dear Tess
Do I realize solemnly enough how utterly and irretrievably this little womanly thing is the creature of my good or bad faith and fortune? I think not. I think I could not, unless I were a woman myself. What I am in worldly estate, she is. What I become, she must become. What I cannot be, she cannot be. And shall I ever neglect her, or hurt her, or even forget to consider her? God forbid such a crime
That cock knew the weather was going to change
These old houses are so draughty
I wonder where that luggage is. We haven't even a brush and comb
I don't know
Tess, you are not a bit cheerful this evening -- not at all as you used to be. Those harridans on the panels upstairs have unsettled you. I am sorry I brought you here. I wonder if you really love me, after all
I did not mean it
You are worried at not having your things, I know. I cannot think why old Jonathan has not come with them. Why, it is seven o'clock? Ah, there he is
It is not Jonathan, after all
How vexing
Mrs Angel Clare
It is a little wedding-present for you, Tess
How thoughtful they are
I think I would rather have you open it, dearest
I don't like to break those great seals; they look so serious. Please open it for me
I do remember
but I had quite forgotten
Are they mine
They are, certainly
Yet why
Tess, put them on -- put them on
But the gown isn't right, Tess
It ought to be a low one for a set of brilliants like that
Ought it
Yes
My heavens
how beautiful you are
If you were only to appear in a ball-room
But no -- no, dearest; I think I love you best in the wing-bonnet and cotton-frock -- yes, better than in this, well as you support these dignities
I'll take them off
in case Jonathan should see me. They are not fit for me, are they? They must be sold, I suppose
Let them stay a few minutes longer. Sell them? Never. It would be a breach of faith
I couldn' make nobody hear at all by knocking
and as't was raining out I opened the door. I've brought the things, sir
I am very glad to see them. But you are very late
Well, yes, sir
We've all been gallied at the dairy at what might ha' been a most terrible affliction since you and your Mis'ess -- so to name her now -- left us this a'ternoon. Perhaps you ha'nt forgot the cock's afternoon crow
Dear me;-- what
Well, some says it do mane one thing, and some another; but what's happened is that poor little Retty Priddle hev tried to drown herself
No! Really! Why, she bade us goodbye with the rest
Yes. Well, sir, when you and your Mis'ess -- so to name what she lawful is -- when you two drove away, as I say, Retty and Marian put on their bonnets and went out; and as there is not much doing now, being New Year's Eve, and folks mops and brooms from what's inside 'em, nobody took much notice. They went on to Lew-Everard, where they had summut to drink, and then on they vamped to Dree-armed Cross, and there they seemed to have parted, Retty striking across the water-meads as if for home, and Marian going on to the next village, where there's another public-house. Nothing more was zeed or heard o' Retty till the waterman, on his way home, noticed something by the Great Pool; 'twas her bonnet and shawl packed up. In the water he found her. He and another man brought her home, thinking a' was dead; but she fetched round by degrees
And, more than this, there's Marian; she's been found dead drunk by the withy-bed -- a girl who hev never been known to touch anything before except shilling ale; though, to be sure, 'a was always a good trencher-woman, as her face showed. It seems as if the maids had all gone out o' their minds
And Izz
Izz is about house as usual; but 'a do say 'a can guess how it happened; and she seems to be very low in mind about it, poor maid, as well she mid be. And so you see, sir, as all this happened just when we was packing your few traps and your Mis'ess's night-rail and dressing things into the cart, why, it belated me
Yes. Well, Jonathan, will you get the trunks upstairs, and drink a cup of ale, and hasten back as soon as you can, in case you should be wanted
I am so sorry you should have heard this sad story about the girls
Still, don't let it depress you. Retty was naturally morbid, you know
Without the least cause
While they who have cause to be, hide it, and pretend they are not
Do you remember what we said to each other this morning about telling our faults
We spoke lightly perhaps, and you may well have done so. But for me it was no light promise. I want to make a confession to you, Love
You have to confess something
You did not expect it? Ah -- you thought too highly of me. Now listen. Put your head there, because I want you to forgive me, and not to be indignant with me for not telling you before, as perhaps I ought to have done
I did not mention it because I was afraid of endangering my chance of you, darling, the great prize of my life -- my Fellowship I call you. My brother's Fellowship was won at his college, mine at Talbothays Dairy. Well, I would not risk it. I was going to tell you a month ago -- at the time you agreed to be mine, but I could not; I thought it might frighten you away from me. I put it off; then I thought I would tell you yesterday, to give you a chance at least of escaping me. But I did not. And I did not this morning, when you proposed our confessing our faults on the landing -- the sinner that I was! But I must, now I see you sitting there so solemnly. I wonder if you will forgive me
O yes! I am sure that
Well, I hope so. But wait a minute. You don't know. To begin at the beginning. Though I imagine my poor father fears that I am one of the eternally lost for my doctrines, I am of course, a believer in good morals, Tess, as much as you. I used to wish to be a teacher of men, and it was a great disappointment to me when I found I could not enter the Church. I admired spotlessness, even though I could lay no claim to it, and hated impurity, as I hope I do now. Whatever one may think of plenary inspiration, one must heartily subscribe to these words of Paul: 'Be thou an example -- in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity.' It is the only safeguard for us poor human beings. '_Integer vitae_,' says a Roman poet, who is strange company for St Paul -- "The man of upright life, from frailties free, Stands not in need of Moorish spear or bow. 

"Well, a certain place is paved with good intentions, and having felt all that so strongly, you will see what a terrible remorse it bred in me when, in the midst of my fine aims for other people, I myself fell
Happily I awoke almost immediately to a sense of my folly
I would have no more to say to her, and I came home. I have never repeated the offence. But I felt I should like to treat you with perfect frankness and honour, and I could not do so without telling this. Do you forgive me
Then we will dismiss it at once and for ever!-- too painful as it is for the occasion -- and talk of something lighter
O, Angel -- I am almost glad -- because now YOU can forgive ME! I have not made my confession. I have a confession, too -- remember, I said so
Ah, to be sure! Now then for it, wicked little one
Perhaps, although you smile, it is as serious as yours, or more so
It can hardly be more serious, dearest
It cannot -- O no, it cannot
No, it cannot be more serious, certainly
because 'tis just the same! I will tell you now
Tess
Yes, dearest
Am I to believe this? From your manner I am to take it as true. O you cannot be out of your mind! You ought to be! Yet you are not... My wife, my Tess -- nothing in you warrants such a supposition as that
I am not out of my mind
And yet
Why didn't you tell me before? Ah, yes, you would have told me, in a way -- but I hindered you, I remember
In the name of our love, forgive me
I have forgiven you for the same
Forgive me as you are forgiven! _I_ forgive YOU, Angel
You -- yes, you do
But you do not forgive me
O Tess, forgiveness does not apply to the case! You were one person; now you are another. My God -- how can forgiveness meet such a grotesque -- prestidigitation as that
Don't -- don't! It kills me quite, that
O have mercy upon me -- have mercy
Angel, Angel! what do you mean by that laugh
Do you know what this is to me
I have been hoping, longing, praying, to make you happy! I have thought what joy it will be to do it, what an unworthy wife I shall be if I do not! That's what I have felt, Angel
I know that
I thought, Angel, that you loved me -- me, my very self! If it is I you do love, O how can it be that you look and speak so? It frightens me! Having begun to love you, I love you for ever -- in all changes, in all disgraces, because you are yourself. I ask no more. Then how can you, O my own husband, stop loving me
I repeat, the woman I have been loving is not you
But who
Another woman in your shape
Sit down, sit down
You are ill; and it is natural that you should be
I don't belong to you any more, then; do I, Angel
It is not me, but another woman like me that he loved, he says
Angel
Angel, am I too wicked for you and me to live together
I have not been able to think what we can do
I shan't ask you to let me live with you, Angel, because I have no right to! I shall not write to mother and sisters to say we be married, as I said I would do; and I shan't finish the good-hussif' I cut out and meant to make while we were in lodgings
Shan't you
No, I shan't do anything, unless you order me to; and if you go away from me I shall not follow 'ee; and if you never speak to me any more I shall not ask why, unless you tell me I may
And if I order you to do anything
I will obey you like your wretched slave, even if it is to lie down and die
You are very good. But it strikes me that there is a want of harmony between your present mood of self-sacrifice and your past mood of self-preservation
Tess
I cannot stay -- in this room -- just now. I will walk out a little way
What have I done -- what HAVE I done! I have not told of anything that interferes with or belies my love for you. You don't think I planned it, do you? It is in your own mind what you are angry at, Angel; it is not in me. O, it is not in me, and I am not that deceitful woman you think me
H'm -- well. Not deceitful, my wife; but not the same. No, not the same. But do not make me reproach you. I have sworn that I will not; and I will do everything to avoid it
Angel!-- Angel! I was a child -- a child when it happened! I knew nothing of men
You were more sinned against than sinning, that I admit
Then will you not forgive me
I do forgive you, but forgiveness is not all
And love me
O Angel -- my mother says that it sometimes happens so!-- she knows several cases where they were worse than I, and the husband has not minded it much -- has got over it at least. And yet the woman had not loved him as I do you
Don't, Tess; don't argue. Different societies, different manners. You almost make me say you are an unapprehending peasant woman, who have never been initiated into the proportions of social things. You don't know what you say
I am only a peasant by position, not by nature
So much the worse for you. I think that parson who unearthed your pedigree would have done better if he had held his tongue. I cannot help associating your decline as a family with this other fact -- of your want of firmness. Decrepit families imply decrepit wills, decrepit conduct. Heaven, why did you give me a handle for despising you more by informing me of your descent! Here was I thinking you a new-sprung child of nature; there were you, the belated seedling of an effete aristocracy
Lots of families are as bad as mine in that! Retty's family were once large landowners, and so were Dairyman Billett's. And the Debbyhouses, who now are carters, were once the De Bayeux family. You find such as I everywhere; 'tis a feature of our county, and I can't help it
So much the worse for the county
I don't see how I can help being the cause of much misery to you all your life. The river is down there. I can put an end to myself in it. I am not afraid
I don't wish to add murder to my other follies
I will leave something to show that I did it myself -- on account of my shame. They will not blame you then
Don't speak so absurdly -- I wish not to hear it. It is nonsense to have such thoughts in this kind of case, which is rather one for satirical laughter than for tragedy. You don't in the least understand the quality of the mishap. It would be viewed in the light of a joke by nine-tenths of the world if it were known. Please oblige me by returning to the house, and going to bed
I will
Thank God
Breakfast is ready
Angel
Tess! Say it is not true! No, it is not true
It is true
Every word
Every word
It is true
Is he living
The baby died
But the man
He is alive
Is he in England
Yes
My position -- is this
I thought -- any man would have thought -- that by giving up all ambition to win a wife with social standing, with fortune, with knowledge of the world, I should secure rustic innocence as surely as I should secure pink cheeks; but -- However, I am no man to reproach you, and I will not
Angel -- I should not have let it go on to marriage with you if I had not known that, after all, there was a last way out of it for you; though I hoped you would never
A last way
I mean, to get rid of me. You CAN get rid of me
How
By divorcing me
Good heavens -- how can you be so simple! How can I divorce you
Can't you -- now I have told you? I thought my confession would give you grounds for that
O Tess -- you are too, too -- childish -- unformed -- crude, I suppose! I don't know what you are. You don't understand the law -- you don't understand
What -- you cannot
Indeed I cannot
I thought -- I thought
O, now I see how wicked I seem to you! Believe me -- believe me, on my soul, I never thought but that you could! I hoped you would not; yet I believed, without a doubt, that you could cast me off if you were determined, and didn't love me at -- at -- all
You were mistaken
O, then I ought to have done it, to have done it last night! But I hadn't the courage. That's just like me
The courage to do what
What were you thinking of doing
Of putting an end to myself
When
Last night
Where
Under your mistletoe
My good --! How
I'll tell you, if you won't be angry with me
It was with the cord of my box. But I could not -- do the last thing! I was afraid that it might cause a scandal to your name
Now, listen to this. You must not dare to think of such a horrible thing! How could you! You will promise me as your husband to attempt that no more
I am ready to promise. I saw how wicked it was
Wicked! The idea was unworthy of you beyond description
But, Angel
it was thought of entirely on your account -- to set you free without the scandal of the divorce that I thought you would have to get. I should never have dreamt of doing it on mine. However, to do it with my own hand is too good for me, after all. It is you, my ruined husband, who ought to strike the blow. I think I should love you more, if that were possible, if you could bring yourself to do it, since there's no other way of escape for 'ee. I feel I am so utterly worthless! So very greatly in the way
Ssh
Well, since you say no, I won't. I have no wish opposed to yours
How punctual
Yes. I saw you coming over the bridge
You must not work like this
You are not my servant; you are my wife
I may think myself that -- indeed
You mean in name! Well, I don't want to be anything more
You MAY think so, Tess! You are. What do you mean
I don't know
I thought I -- because I am not respectable, I mean. I told you I thought I was not respectable enough long ago -- and on that account I didn't want to marry you, only -- only you urged me
I wish half the women in England were as respectable as you
It isn't a question of respectability, but one of principle
Goodbye
I shall be home punctually
You know, I have to think of a course. It was imperative that we should stay together a little while, to avoid the scandal to you that would have resulted from our immediate parting. But you must see it is only for form's sake
Yes
What's to be done -- what's to be done
I suppose -- you are not going to live with me -- long, are you, Angel
without despising myself, and what is worse, perhaps, despising you. I mean, of course, cannot live with you in the ordinary sense. At present, whatever I feel, I do not despise you. And, let me speak plainly, or you may not see all my difficulties. How can we live together while that man lives?-- he being your husband in nature, and not I. If he were dead it might be different... Besides, that's not all the difficulty; it lies in another consideration -- one bearing upon the future of other people than ourselves. Think of years to come, and children being born to us, and this past matter getting known -- for it must get known. There is not an uttermost part of the earth but somebody comes from it or goes to it from elsewhere. Well, think of wretches of our flesh and blood growing up under a taunt which they will gradually get to feel the full force of with their expanding years. What an awakening for them! What a prospect! Can you honestly say 'Remain' after contemplating this contingency? Don't you think we had better endure the ills we have than fly to others
I cannot say 'Remain
I cannot; I had not thought so far
You shall be born
On an Australian upland or Texan plain, who is to know or care about my misfortunes, or to reproach me or you
I have thought over what you say
It is quite true, all of it; it must be. You must go away from me
But what can you do
I can go home
Are you sure
Quite sure. We ought to part, and we may as well get it past and done. You once said that I was apt to win men against their better judgement; and if I am constantly before your eyes I may cause you to change your plans in opposition to your reason and wish; and afterwards your repentance and my sorrow will be terrible
And you would like to go home
I want to leave you, and go home
Then it shall be so
I feared it would come to this
I don't complain, Angel, I -- I think it best. What you said has quite convinced me. Yes, though nobody else should reproach me if we should stay together, yet somewhen, years hence, you might get angry with me for any ordinary matter, and knowing what you do of my bygones, you yourself might be tempted to say words, and they might be overheard, perhaps by my own children. O, what only hurts me now would torture and kill me then! I will go -- to-morrow
And I shall not stay here. Though I didn't like to initiate it, I have seen that it was advisable we should part -- at least for a while, till I can better see the shape that things have taken, and can write to you
God knows; perhaps we will shake down together some day, for weariness; thousands have done it
Dead! dead! dead
Dead, dead, dead
My poor, poor Tess -- my dearest, darling Tess! So sweet, so good, so true
My wife -- dead, dead
Let us walk on, darling
How onnatural the brightness of her eyes did seem, and how they stood like waxen images and talked as if they were in a dream! Didn't it strike 'ee that 'twas so? Tess had always sommat strange in her, and she's not now quite like the proud young bride of a well-be-doing man
Now, let us understand each other
There is no anger between us, though there is that which I cannot endure at present. I will try to bring myself to endure it. I will let you know where I go to as soon as I know myself. And if I can bring myself to bear it -- if it is desirable, possible -- I will come to you. But until I come to you it will be better that you should not try to come to me
Until you come to me I must not try to come to you
Just so
May I write to you
O yes -- if you are ill, or want anything at all. I hope that will not be the case; so that it may happen that I write first to you
I agree to the conditions, Angel; because you know best what my punishment ought to be; only -- only -- don't make it more than I can bear
Oh -- nothing, miss
Marlott is Marlott still. Folks have died and that. John Durbeyfield, too, hev had a daughter married this week to a gentleman-farmer; not from John's own house, you know; they was married elsewhere; the gentleman being of that high standing that John's own folk was not considered well-be-doing enough to have any part in it, the bridegroom seeming not to know how't have been discovered that John is a old and ancient nobleman himself by blood, with family skillentons in their own vaults to this day, but done out of his property in the time o' the Romans. However, Sir John, as we call 'n now, kept up the wedding-day as well as he could, and stood treat to everybody in the parish; and John's wife sung songs at The Pure Drop till past eleven o'clock
But where's thy gentleman, Tess
Why -- Tess!-- my chil'-- I thought you was married!-- married really and truly this time -- we sent the cider
Yes, mother; so I am
Going to be
No -- I am married
Married! Then where's thy husband
Oh, he's gone away for a time
Gone away! When was you married, then? The day you said
Yes, Tuesday, mother
And now 'tis on'y Saturday, and he gone away
Yes, he's gone
What's the meaning o' that? 'Nation seize such husbands as you seem to get, say I
Mother
I don't know how to tell 'ee, mother! You said to me, and wrote to me, that I was not to tell him. But I did tell him -- I couldn't help it -- and he went away
O you little fool -- you little fool
My good God! that ever I should ha' lived to say it, but I say it again, you little fool
I know it -- I know -- I know
But, O my mother, I could not help it! He was so good -- and I felt the wickedness of trying to blind him as to what had happened! If -- if -- it were to be done again -- I should do the same. I could not -- I dared not -- so sin -- against him
But you sinned enough to marry him first
Yes, yes; that's where my misery do lie! But I thought he could get rid o' me by law if he were determined not to overlook it. And O, if you knew -- if you could only half know how I loved him -- how anxious I was to have him -- and how wrung I was between caring so much for him and my wish to be fair to him
Well, well; what's done can't be undone! I'm sure I don't know why children o' my bringing forth should all be bigger simpletons than other people's -- not to know better than to blab such a thing as that, when he couldn't ha' found it out till too late
What your father will say I don't know
for he's been talking about the wedding up at Rolliver's and The Pure Drop every day since, and about his family getting back to their rightful position through you -- poor silly man!-- and now you've made this mess of it! The Lord-a-Lord
We've just had up a story about
They was formerly styled 'sir', like my own ancestry
though nowadays their true style, strictly speaking, is 'clerk' only
To think, now, that this was to be the end o't
And I with a family vault under that there church of Kingsbere as big as Squire Jollard's ale-cellar, and my folk lying there in sixes and sevens, as genuine county bones and marrow as any recorded in history. And now to be sure what they fellers at Rolliver's and The Pure Drop will say to me! How they'll squint and glane, and say, 'This is yer mighty match is it; this is yer getting back to the true level of yer forefathers in King Norman's time!' I feel this is too much, Joan; I shall put an end to myself, title and all -- I can bear it no longer! ... But she can make him keep her if he's married her
Why, yes. But she won't think o' doing that
D'ye think he really have married her?-- or is it like the first
This is the chief thing: be not perturbed
Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid
But -- where's your wife, dear Angel
How you surprise us
She is at her mother's -- temporarily. I have come home rather in a hurry because I've decided to go to Brazil
Brazil! Why they are all Roman Catholics there surely
Are they? I hadn't thought of that
We had your brief note three weeks ago announcing that it had taken place
and your father sent your godmother's gift to her, as you know. Of course it was best that none of us should be present, especially as you preferred to marry her from the dairy, and not at her home, wherever that may be. It would have embarrassed you, and given us no pleasure. Your bothers felt that very strongly. Now it is done we do not complain, particularly if she suits you for the business you have chosen to follow instead of the ministry of the Gospel. ... Yet I wish I could have seen her first, Angel, or have known a little more about her. We sent her no present of our own, not knowing what would best give her pleasure, but you must suppose it only delayed. Angel, there is no irritation in my mind or your father's against you for this marriage; but we have thought it much better to reserve our liking for your wife till we could see her. And now you have not brought her. It seems strange. What has happened
I don't mind telling you, dear mother
that I always meant to keep her away from this house till I should feel she could some with credit to you. But this idea of Brazil is quite a recent one. If I do go it will be unadvisable for me to take her on this my first journey. She will remain at her mother's till I come back
And I shall not see her before you start
Cannot you describe her? I am sure she is very pretty, Angel
Of that there can be no question
And that she is pure and virtuous goes without question
Pure and virtuous, of course, she is
I can see her quite distinctly. You said the other day that she was fine in figure; roundly built; had deep red lips like Cupid's bow; dark eyelashes and brows, an immense rope of hair like a ship's cable; and large eyes violety-bluey-blackish
I did, mother
I quite see her. And living in such seclusion she naturally had scarce ever seen any young man from the world without till she saw you
Scarcely
You were her first love
Of course
There are worse wives than these simple, rosy-mouthed, robust girls of the farm. Certainly I could have wished -- well, since my son is to be an agriculturist, it is perhaps but proper that his wife should have been accustomed to an outdoor life
I think, since Angel has come, that it will be more appropriate to read the thirty-first of Proverbs than the chapter which we should have had in the usual course of our reading
Yes, certainly
My dear son, your father has decided to read us the chapter in Proverbs in praise of a virtuous wife. We shall not need to be reminded to apply the words to the absent one. May Heaven shield her in all her ways
Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. She riseth while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household. She girdeth her loins with strength and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good; her candle goeth not out by night. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all
I could not help thinking how very aptly that chapter your dear father read applied, in some of its particulars, to the woman you have chosen. The perfect woman, you see, was a working woman; not an idler; not a fine lady; but one who used her hands and her head and her heart for the good of others. 'Her children arise up and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but she excelleth them all.' Well, I wish I could have seen her, Angel. Since she is pure and chaste, she would have been refined enough for me
Angel
is there something wrong that you go away so soon? I am quite sure you are not yourself
I am not, quite, mother
About her? Now, my son, I know it is that -- I know it is about her! Have you quarrelled in these three weeks
We have not exactly quarrelled
But we have had a difference
Angel -- is she a young woman whose history will bear investigation
She is spotless
Then never mind the rest. After all, there are few purer things in nature then an unsullied country maid. Any crudeness of manner which may offend your more educated sense at first, will, I am sure, disappear under the influence or your companionship and tuition
Yes; it is a likely scheme enough in a commercial sense, no doubt
But, my dear Mercy, it snaps the continuity of existence. Perhaps a cloister would be preferable
A cloister! O, Angel Clare
Well
Why, you wicked man, a cloister implies a monk, and a monk Roman Catholicism
And Roman Catholicism sin, and sin damnation. Thou art in a parlous state, Angel Clare
_I_ glory in my Protestantism
Dear Mercy
you must forgive me. I think I am going crazy
O Tess! If you had only told me sooner, I would have forgiven you
Mr Clare
I've called to see you and Mrs Clare, and to inquire if ye be well. I thought you might be back here again
I am here alone
we are not living here now
Which way are you going home, Izz
I have no home at Talbothays Dairy now, sir
Why is that
It was so dismal there that I left! I am staying out this way
Well -- are you going there now? I can take you if you wish for a lift
Thank 'ee, Mr Clare
I am going to leave England, Izz
Going to Brazil
And do Mrs Clare like the notion of such a journey
She is not going at present -- say for a year or so. I am going out to reconnoitre -- to see what life there is like
How are the others
How is Retty
She was in a sort of nervous state when I zid her last; and so thin and hollow-cheeked that 'a do seem in a decline. Nobody will ever fall in love wi' her any more
And Marian
Marian drinks
Indeed
Yes. The dairyman has got rid of her
And you
I don't drink, and I bain't in a decline. But -- I am no great things at singing afore breakfast now
How is that? Do you remember how neatly you used to turn ''Twas down in Cupid's Gardens' and 'The Tailor's Breeches' at morning milking
Ah, yes! When you first came, sir, that was. Not when you had been there a bit
Why was that falling-off
Izz!-- how weak of you -- for such as I
Then -- suppose I had asked YOU to marry me
If you had I should have said 'Yes', and you would have married a woman who loved 'ee
Really
Down to the ground
O my God! did you never guess it till now
I must get down. I live out there
I am going to Brazil alone, Izz
I have separated from my wife for personal, not voyaging, reasons. I may never live with her again. I may not be able to love you; but -- will you go with me instead of her
You truly wish me to go
I do. I have been badly used enough to wish for relief. And you at least love me disinterestedly
Yes -- I will go
You will? You know what it means, Izz
It means that I shall live with you for the time you are over there -- that's good enough for me
Remember, you are not to trust me in morals now. But I ought to remind you that it will be wrong-doing in the eyes of civilization -- Western civilization, that is to say
I don't mind that; no woman do when it comes to agony-point, and there's no other way
Then don't get down, but sit where you are
You love me very, very much, Izz
I do -- I have said I do! I loved you all the time we was at the dairy together
More than Tess
No
not more than she
How's that
Because nobody could love 'ee more than Tess did! ... She would have laid down her life for 'ee. I could do no more
SHE WOULD HAVE LAID DOWN HER LIFE FOR 'EE. I COULD DO NO MORE
Forget our idle talk, Izz
I don't know what I've been saying! I will now drive you back to where your lane branches off
So much for honesty towards 'ee! O -- how can I bear it -- how can I -- how can I
Do you regret that poor little act of justice to an absent one? O, Izz, don't spoil it by regret
Very well, sir. Perhaps I didn't know what I was saying, either, wh -- when I agreed to go! I wish -- what cannot be
Because I have a loving wife already
Yes, yes! You have
Izz -- please, please forget my momentary levity
It was so ill-considered, so ill-advised
Forget it? Never, never! O, it was no levity to me
Well, but, Izz, we'll part friends, anyhow? You don't know what I've had to bear
I forgive 'ee, sir
Now, Izz
I want you to tell Marian when you see her that she is to be a good woman, and not to give way to folly. Promise that, and tell Retty that there are more worthy men than I in the world, that for my sake she is to act wisely and well -- remember the words -- wisely and well -- for my sake. I send this message to them as a dying man to the dying; for I shall never see them again. And you, Izzy, you have saved me by your honest words about my wife from an incredible impulse towards folly and treachery. Women may be bad, but they are not so bad as men in these things! On that one account I can never forget you. Be always the good and sincere girl you have hitherto been; and think of me as a worthless lover, but a faithful friend. Promise
Heaven bless and keep you, sir. Goodbye
Why, surely, it is the young wench who was at Trantridge awhile -- young Squire d'Urberville's friend? I was there at that time, though I don't live there now
Be honest enough to own it, and that what I said in the town was true, though your fancy-man was so up about it -- hey, my sly one? You ought to beg my pardon for that blow of his, considering
All is vanity
I wish it were now
Poor darlings -- to suppose myself the most miserable being on earth in the sight o' such misery as yours
And not a twinge of bodily pain about me! I be not mangled, and I be not bleeding, and I have two hands to feed and clothe me
What a mommet of a maid
But I don't care
O no -- I don't care! I'll always be ugly now, because Angel is not here, and I have nobody to take care of me. My husband that was is gone away, and never will love me any more; but I love him just the same, and hate all other men, and like to make 'em think scornfully of me
Who would think I was Mrs Angel Clare
Tess -- Mrs Clare -- the dear wife of dear he! And is it really so bad as this, my child? Why is your cwomely face tied up in such a way? Anybody been beating 'ee? Not HE
No, no, no! I merely did it not to be clipsed or colled, Marian
And you've got no collar on" (Tess had been accustomed to wear a little white collar at the dairy). "I know it, Marian
You've lost it travelling
I've not lost it. The truth is, I don't care anything about my looks; and so I didn't put it on
And you don't wear your wedding-ring
Yes, I do; but not in public. I wear it round my neck on a ribbon. I don't wish people to think who I am by marriage, or that I am married at all; it would be so awkward while I lead my present life
But you BE a gentleman's wife; and it seems hardly fair that you should live like this
O yes it is, quite fair; though I am very unhappy
Well, well. HE married you -- and you can be unhappy
Wives are unhappy sometimes; from no fault of their husbands -- from their own
You've no faults, deary; that I'm sure of. And he's none. So it must be something outside ye both
Marian, dear Marian, will you do me a good turn without asking questions? My husband has gone abroad, and somehow I have overrun my allowance, so that I have to fall back upon my old work for a time. Do not call me Mrs Clare, but Tess, as before. Do they want a hand here
O yes; they'll take one always, because few care to come. 'Tis a starve-acre place. Corn and swedes are all they grow. Though I be here myself, I feel 'tis a pity for such as you to come
But you used to be as good a dairywoman as I
Yes; but I've got out o' that since I took to drink. Lord, that's the only comfort I've got now! If you engage, you'll be set swede-hacking. That's what I be doing; but you won't like it
O -- anything! Will you speak for me
You will do better by speaking for yourself
Very well. Now, Marian, remember -- nothing about HIM if I get the place. I don't wish to bring his name down to the dirt
This is pay-night
and if you were to come with me you would know at once. I be real sorry that you are not happy; but 'tis because he's away, I know. You couldn't be unhappy if he were here, even if he gie'd ye no money -- even if he used you like a drudge
That's true; I could not
wroppers
You can see a gleam of a hill within a few miles o' Froom Valley from here when 'tis fine
Ah! Can you
I've got used to it
and can't leave it off now. 'Tis my only comfort -- You see I lost him: you didn't; and you can do without it perhaps
Ah
how I should like another or two of our old set to come here! Then we could bring up Talbothays every day here afield, and talk of he, and of what nice times we had there, and o' the old things we used to know, and make it all come back a'most, in seeming
I'll write to Izz Huett
She's biding at home doing nothing now, I know, and I'll tell her we be here, and ask her to come; and perhaps Retty is well enough now
Ha-ha! the cunning northern birds knew this was coming
Depend upon't, they keep just in front o't all the way from the North Star. Your husband, my dear, is, I make no doubt, having scorching weather all this time. Lord, if he could only see his pretty wife now! Not that this weather hurts your beauty at all -- in fact, it rather does it good
You mustn't talk about him to me, Marian
Well, but -- surely you care for'n! Do you
Well, well, I know you do. But 'pon my body, it is a rum life for a married couple! There -- I won't say another word! Well, as for the weather, it won't hurt us in the wheat-barn; but reed-drawing is fearful hard work -- worse than swede-hacking. I can stand it because I'm stout; but you be slimmer than I. I can't think why maister should have set 'ee at it
Why, here's Izz
So you be the young woman who took my civility in such ill part? Be drowned if I didn't think you might be as soon as I heard of your being hired! Well, you thought you had got the better of me the first time at the inn with your fancy-man, and the second time on the road, when you bolted; but now I think I've got the better you
You thought I was in love with 'ee I suppose? Some women are such fools, to take every look as serious earnest. But there's nothing like a winter afield for taking that nonsense out o' young wenches' heads; and you've signed and agreed till Lady-Day. Now, are you going to beg my pardon
I think you ought to beg mine
Very well -- as you like. But we'll see which is master here. Be they all the sheaves you've done to-day
Yes, sir
The rest, too, have done better than you
They've all practised it before, and I have not. And I thought it made no difference to you as it is task work, and we are only paid for what we do
Oh, but it does. I want the barn cleared
I am going to work all the afternoon instead of leaving at two as the others will do
Now, we've got it all to ourselves
Izz and Marian
I can't join in talk with you now, as I used to do, about Mr Clare; you will see that I cannot; because, although he is gone away from me for the present, he is my husband
He was a very splendid lover, no doubt
but I don't think he is a too fond husband to go away from you so soon
He had to go -- he was obliged to go, to see about the land over there
He might have tided 'ee over the winter
Ah -- that's owing to an accident -- a misunderstanding; and we won't argue it
Perhaps there's a good deal to be said for him! He did not go away, like some husbands, without telling me; and I can always find out where he is
I knew you wouldn't be able to stand it
It wants harder flesh than yours for this work
Oh, that's how you get on when I am away
But it is my own loss
Not yours
I want it finished
Don't 'ee mind him, there's a dear
I've worked here before. Now you go and lie down there, and Izz and I will make up your number
I don't like to let you do that. I'm taller than you, too
I should not have thought it of him -- never
And I loved him so! I didn't mind his having YOU. But this about Izz is too bad
Is it about my husband
Well, yes. Izz said, 'Don't 'ee tell her'; but I am sure I can't help it! It was what he wanted Izz to do. He wanted her to go off to Brazil with him
And did Izz refuse to go
I don't know. Anyhow he changed his mind
Pooh -- then he didn't mean it! 'Twas just a man's jest
Yes he did; for he drove her a good-ways towards the station
He didn't take her
There
Now I wish I hadn't told 'ee
No. It is a very good thing that you have done! I have been living on in a thirtover, lackaday way, and have not seen what it may lead to! I ought to have sent him a letter oftener. He said I could not go to him, but he didn't say I was not to write as often as I liked. I won't dally like this any longer! I have been very wrong and neglectful in leaving everything to be done by him
'Tis a thousand pities your husband can't see 'ee now -- you do look a real beauty
There is Mercy Chant. Let us overtake her
Ah! poor Angel, poor Angel! I never see that nice girl without more and more regretting his precipitancy in throwing himself away upon a dairymaid, or whatever she may be. It is a queer business, apparently. Whether she has joined him yet or not I don't know; but she had not done so some months ago when I heard from him
I can't say. He never tells me anything nowadays. His ill-considered marriage seems to have completed that estrangement from me which was begun by his extraordinary opinions
Here's a pair of old boots
Thrown away, I suppose, by some tramp or other
Some imposter who wished to come into the town barefoot, perhaps, and so excite our sympathies
Yes, it must have been, for they are excellent walking-boots -- by no means worn out. What a wicked thing to do! I'll carry them home for some poor person
Ah
THEY didn't know that I wore those over the roughest part of the road to save these pretty ones HE bought for me -- no -- they did not know it! And they didn't think that HE chose the colour o' my pretty frock -- no -- how could they? If they had known perhaps they would not have cared, for they don't care much for him, poor thing
It is nothing -- it is nothing
Nobody loves it; nobody sees it. Who cares about the looks of a castaway like me
The people are gone to afternoon service, I suppose
No, my dear
'Tis too soon for that; the bells hain't strook out yet. They be all gone to hear the preaching in yonder barn. A ranter preaches there between the services -- an excellent, fiery, Christian man, they say. But, Lord, I don't go to hear'n! What comes in the regular way over the pulpit is hot enough for I
O foolish galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth, crucified among you
Tess
Tess
It is I -- Alec d'Urberville
I see it is
Well -- is that all? Yet I deserve no more! Of course
there is something of the ridiculous to your eyes in seeing me like this. But -- I must put up with that. ... I heard you had gone away; nobody knew where. Tess, you wonder why I have followed you
I do, rather; and I would that you had not, with all my heart
Yes -- you may well say it
But don't mistake me; I beg this because you may have been led to do so in noticing -- if you did notice it -- how your sudden appearance unnerved me down there. It was but a momentary faltering; and considering what you have been to me, it was natural enough. But will helped me through it -- though perhaps you think me a humbug for saying it -- and immediately afterwards I felt that of all persons in the world whom it was my duty and desire to save from the wrath to come -- sneer if you like -- the woman whom I had so grievously wronged was that person. I have come with that sole purpose in view -- nothing more
Have you saved yourself? Charity begins at home, they say
_I_ have done nothing
Heaven, as I have been telling my hearers, has done all. No amount of contempt that you can pour upon me, Tess, will equal what I have poured upon myself -- the old Adam of my former years! Well, it is a strange story; believe it or not; but I can tell you the means by which my conversion was brought about, and I hope you will be interested enough at least to listen. Have you ever heard the name of the parson of Emminster -- you must have done do?-- old Mr Clare; one of the most earnest of his school; one of the few intense men left in the Church; not so intense as the extreme wing of Christian believers with which I have thrown in my lot, but quite an exception among the Established clergy, the younger of whom are gradually attenuating the true doctrines by their sophistries, till they are but the shadow of what they were. I only differ from him on the question of Church and State -- the interpretation of the text, 'Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord'-- that's all. He is one who, I firmly believe, has been the humble means of saving more souls in this country than any other man you can name. You have heard of him
I have
He came to Trantridge two or three years ago to preach on behalf of some missionary society; and I, wretched fellow that I was, insulted him when, in his disinterestedness, he tried to reason with me and show me the way. He did not resent my conduct, he simply said that some day I should receive the first-fruits of the Spirit -- that those who came to scoff sometimes remained to pray. There was a strange magic in his words. They sank into my mind. But the loss of my mother hit me most; and by degrees I was brought to see daylight. Since then my one desire has been to hand on the true view to others, and that is what I was trying to do to-day; though it is only lately that I have preached hereabout. The first months of my ministry have been spent in the North of England among strangers, where I preferred to make my earliest clumsy attempts, so as to acquire courage before undergoing that severest of all tests of one's sincerity, addressing those who have known one, and have been one's companions in the days of darkness. If you could only know, Tess, the pleasure of having a good slap at yourself, I am sure
Don't go on with it
I can't believe in such sudden things! I feel indignant with you for talking to me like this, when you know -- when you know what harm you've done me! You, and those like you, take your fill of pleasure on earth by making the life of such as me bitter and black with sorrow; and then it is a fine thing, when you have had enough of that, to think of securing your pleasure in heaven by becoming converted! Out upon such -- I don't believe in you -- I hate it
Tess
don't speak so! It came to me like a jolly new idea! And you don't believe me? What don't you believe
Your conversion. Your scheme of religion
Why
Because a better man than you does not believe in such
What a woman's reason! Who is this better man
I cannot tell you
Well
God forbid that I should say I am a good man -- and you know I don't say any such thing. I am new to goodness, truly; but newcomers see furthest sometimes
Yes
But I cannot believe in your conversion to a new spirit. Such flashes as you feel, Alec, I fear don't last
Don't look at me like that
I beg your pardon
No, no! Don't beg my pardon. But since you wear a veil to hide your good looks, why don't you keep it down
It was mostly to keep off the wind
It may seem harsh of me to dictate like this
but it is better that I should not look too often on you. It might be dangerous
Ssh
Well, women's faces have had too much power over me already for me not to fear them! An evangelist has nothing to do with such as they; and it reminds me of the old times that I would forget
Cross-in-Hand
I think I must leave you now
I have to preach at Abbot's-Cernel at six this evening, and my way lies across to the right from here. And you upset me somewhat too, Tessy -- I cannot, will not, say why. I must go away and get strength. ... How is it that you speak so fluently now? Who has taught you such good English
I have learnt things in my troubles
What troubles have you had
I knew nothing of this till now
Why didn't you write to me when you felt your trouble coming on
Well -- you will see me again
No
Do not again come near me
I will think. But before we part come here
This was once a Holy Cross. Relics are not in my creed; but I fear you at moments -- far more than you need fear me at present; and to lessen my fear, put your hand upon that stone hand, and swear that you will never tempt me -- by your charms or ways
Good God -- how can you ask what is so unnecessary! All that is furthest from my thought
Yes -- but swear it
I am sorry you are not a believer
that some unbeliever should have got hold of you and unsettled your mind. But no more now. At home at least I can pray for you; and I will; and who knows what may not happen? I'm off. Goodbye
What is the meaning of that old stone I have passed
Was it ever a Holy Cross
Cross -- no; 'twer not a cross! 'Tis a thing of ill-omen, Miss. It was put up in wuld times by the relations of a malefactor who was tortured there by nailing his hand to a post and afterwards hung. The bones lie underneath. They say he sold his soul to the devil, and that he walks at times
He is Amby Seedling, the chap who used to sometimes come and help at Talbothays
He actually inquired and found out that I had come here, and has followed me. He says he's been in love wi' me these two years. But I've hardly answered him
I want to speak to you, Tess
You have refused my last request, not to come near me
Yes, but I have a good reason
Well, tell it
It is more serious than you may think
It is this
In thinking of your soul and mine when we last met, I neglected to inquire as to your worldly condition. You were well dressed, and I did not think of it. But I see now that it is hard -- harder than it used to be when I -- knew you -- harder than you deserve. Perhaps a good deal of it is owning to me
Tess
yours was the very worst case I ever was concerned in! I had no idea of what had resulted till you told me. Scamp that I was to foul that innocent life! The whole blame was mine -- the whole unconventional business of our time at Trantridge. You, too, the real blood of which I am but the base imitation, what a blind young thing you were as to possibilities! I say in all earnestness that it is a shame for parents to bring up their girls in such dangerous ignorance of the gins and nets that the wicked may set for them, whether their motive be a good one or the result of simple indifference
But it is not that I came to say
My circumstances are these. I have lost my mother since you were at Trantridge, and the place is my own. But I intend to sell it, and devote myself to missionary work in Africa. A devil of a poor hand I shall make at the trade, no doubt. However, what I want to ask you is, will you put it in my power to do my duty -- to make the only reparation I can make for the trick played you: that is, will you be my wife, and go with me? ... I have already obtained this precious document. It was my old mother's dying wish
What is it
A marriage licence
O no, sir -- no
You will not? Why is that
Surely
You will not marry me, Tess, and make me a self-respecting man
I cannot
But why
You know I have no affection for you
But you would get to feel that in time, perhaps -- as soon as you really could forgive me
Never
Why so positive
I love somebody else
You do
Somebody else? But has not a sense of what is morally right and proper any weight with you
No, no, no -- don't say that
Anyhow, then, your love for this other man may be only a passing feeling which you will overcome
No -- no
Yes, yes! Why not
I cannot tell you
You must in honour
Well then ... I have married him
Ah
I did not wish to tell -- I did not mean to
It is a secret here, or at any rate but dimly known. So will you, PLEASE will you, keep from questioning me? You must remember that we are now strangers
Strangers -- are we? Strangers
Is that man your husband
That man
I should think not
Who, then
Do not ask what I do not wish to tell
But I only asked for your sake
Angels of heaven!-- God forgive me for such an expression -- I came here, I swear, as I thought for your good. Tess -- don't look at me so -- I cannot stand your looks! There never were such eyes, surely, before Christianity or since! There -- I won't lose my head; I dare not. I own that the sight of you had waked up my love for you, which, I believed, was extinguished with all such feelings. But I thought that our marriage might be a sanctification for us both. 'The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband,' I said to myself. But my plan is dashed from me; and I must bear the disappointment
Married. Married! ... Well, that being so
that being prevented, I should like to do some good to you and your husband, whoever he may be. There are many questions that I am tempted to ask, but I will not do so, of course, in opposition to your wishes. Though, if I could know your husband, I might more easily benefit him and you. Is he on this farm
No
He is far away
Far away? From YOU? What sort of husband can he be
O, do not speak against him! It was through you! He found out
Ah, is it so! ... That's sad, Tess
Yes
But to stay away from you -- to leave you to work like this
He does not leave me to work
He don't know it! It is by my own arrangement
Then, does he write
I -- I cannot tell you. There are things which are private to ourselves
Of course that means that he does not. You are a deserted wife, my fair Tess
You must not -- you must not
O, will you go away -- for the sake of me and my husband -- go, in the name of your own Christianity
Yes, yes; I will
Tess, as God is my judge, I meant no humbug in taking your hand
What the devil are you doing away from your work at this time o' day
Don't speak like that to her
Indeed, Mister! And what mid Methodistpa's ons have to do with she
Who is the fellow
Go -- I do beg you
What! And leave you to that tyrant? I can see in his face what a churl he is
He won't hurt me. HE'S not in love with me. I can leave at Lady-Day
Well, I have no right but to obey, I suppose. But -- well, goodbye
If so be you make an agreement to work for me till Lady-Day, I'll see that you carry it out
Od rot the women -- now 'tis one thing, and then 'tis another. But I'll put up with it no longer
But no, no
I could not have married him now! He is so unpleasant to me
Tess -- I couldn't help it
I felt that I must call at least to ask how you are. I assure you I had not been thinking of you at all till I saw you that Sunday; now I cannot get rid of your image, try how I may! It is hard that a good woman should do harm to a bad man; yet so it is. If you would only pray for me, Tess
How can I pray for you
when I am forbidden to believe that the great Power who moves the world would alter His plans on my account
You really think that
Yes. I have been cured of the presumption of thinking otherwise
Cured? By whom
By my husband, if I must tell
Ah -- your husband -- your husband! How strange it seems! I remember you hinted something of the sort the other day. What do you really believe in these matters, Tess
You seem to have no religion -- perhaps owing to me
But I have. Though I don't believe in anything supernatural
Then do you think that the line I take is all wrong
A good deal of it
H'm -- and yet I've felt so sure about it
I believe in the SPIRIT of the Sermon on the Mount, and so did my dear husband... But I don't believe
The fact is
whatever your dear husband believed you accept, and whatever he rejected you reject, without the least inquiry or reasoning on your own part. That's just like you women. Your mind is enslaved to his
Ah, because he knew everything
Yes, but you should not take negative opinions wholesale from another person like that. A pretty fellow he must be to teach you such scepticism
He never forced my judgement! He would never argue on the subject with me! But I looked at it in this way; what he believed, after inquiring deep into doctrines, was much more likely to be right than what I might believe, who hadn't looked into doctrines at all
What used he to say? He must have said something
Say that again
Anything else
He said at another time something like this"; and she gave another, which might possibly have been paralleled in many a work of the pedigree ranging from the _Dictionnaire Philosophique_ to Huxley's _Essays_. "Ah -- ha! How do you remember them
I wanted to believe what he believed, though he didn't wish me to; and I managed to coax him to tell me a few of his thoughts. I can't say I quite understand that one; but I know it is right
H'm. Fancy your being able to teach me what you don't know yourself
And so I threw in my spiritual lot with his
I didn't wish it to be different. What's good enough for him is good enough for me
Does he know that you are as big an infidel as he
No -- I never told him -- if I am an infidel
Well -- you are better off to-day that I am, Tess, after all! You don't believe that you ought to preach my doctrine, and, therefore, do no despite to your conscience in abstaining. I do believe I ought to preach it, but, like the devils, I believe and tremble, for I suddenly leave off preaching it, and give way to my passion for you
How
Why
I have come all the way here to see you to-day! But I started from home to go to Casterbridge Fair, where I have undertaken to preach the Word from a waggon at half-past two this afternoon, and where all the brethren are expecting me this minute. Here's the announcement
But how can you get there
I cannot get there! I have come here
What, you have really arranged to preach, and
I have arranged to preach, and I shall not be there -- by reason of my burning desire to see a woman whom I once despised!-- No, by my word and truth, I never despised you; if I had I should not love you now! Why I did not despise you was on account of your being unsmirched in spite of all; you withdrew yourself from me so quickly and resolutely when you saw the situation; you did not remain at my pleasure; so there was one petticoat in the world for whom I had no contempt, and you are she. But you may well despise me now! I thought I worshipped on the mountains, but I find I still serve in the groves! Ha! ha
O Alec d'Urberville! what does this mean? What have I done
Done
Nothing intentionally. But you have been the means -- the innocent means -- of my backsliding, as they call it. I ask myself, am I, indeed, one of those 'servants of corruption' who, 'after they have escaped the pollutions of the world, are again entangled therein and overcome'-- whose latter end is worse than their beginning
Tess, my girl, I was on the way to, at least, social salvation till I saw you again
And why then have you tempted me? I was firm as a man could be till I saw those eyes and that mouth again -- surely there never was such a maddening mouth since Eve's
You temptress, Tess; you dear damned witch of Babylon -- I could not resist you as soon as I met you again
I couldn't help your seeing me again
I know it -- I repeat that I do not blame you. But the fact remains. When I saw you ill-used on the farm that day I was nearly mad to think that I had no legal right to protect you -- that I could not have it; whilst he who has it seems to neglect you utterly
Don't speak against him -- he is absent
Treat him honourably -- he has never wronged you! O leave his wife before any scandal spreads that may do harm to his honest name
I will -- I will
I have broken my engagement to preach to those poor drunken boobies at the fair -- it is the first time I have played such a practical joke. A month ago I should have been horrified at such a possibility. I'll go away -- to swear -- and -- ah, can I! to keep away
One clasp, Tessy -- one! Only for old friendship
I am without defence. Alec! A good man's honour is in my keeping -- think -- be ashamed
Pooh! Well, yes -- yes
That clever fellow little thought that, by telling her those things, he might be paving my way back to her
an engineer
he
Who is that
Somebody's fancy-man, I s'pose
I'll lay a guinea he's after Tess
O no. 'Tis a ranterpa's on who's been sniffing after her lately; not a dandy like this
Well -- this is the same man
The same man as the preacher? But he's quite different
He hev left off his black coat and white neckercher, and hev cut off his whiskers; but he's the same man for all that
D'ye really think so? Then I'll tell her
Don't. She'll see him soon enough, good-now
Well, I don't think it at all right for him to join his preaching to courting a married woman, even though her husband mid be abroad, and she, in a sense, a widow
Oh -- he can do her no harm
Her mind can no more be heaved from that one place where it do bide than a stooded waggon from the hole he's in. Lord love 'ee, neither court-paying, nor preaching, nor the seven thunders themselves, can wean a woman when 'twould be better for her that she should be weaned
You ought to het a quart o' drink into 'ee, as I've done
You wouldn't look so white then. Why, souls above us, your face is as if you'd been hagrode
Oh
I shall eat my dinner here -- right on the rick
I am here again, as you see
Why do you trouble me so
I trouble YOU? I think I may ask, why do you trouble me
Sure, I don't trouble you any-when
You say you don't? But you do! You haunt me. Those very eyes that you turned upon my with such a bitter flash a moment ago, they come to me just as you showed them then, in the night and in the day! Tess, ever since you told me of that child of ours, it is just as if my feelings, which have been flowing in a strong puritanical stream, had suddenly found a way open in the direction of you, and had all at once gushed through. The religious channel is left dry forthwith; and it is you who have done it
What -- you have given up your preaching entirely
Entirely. I have broken every engagement since that afternoon I was to address the drunkards at Casterbridge Fair. The deuce only knows what I am thought of by the brethren. Ah-ha! The brethren! No doubt they pray for me -- weep for me; for they are kind people in their way. But what do I care? How could I go on with the thing when I had lost my faith in it?-- it would have been hypocrisy of the basest kind! Among them I should have stood like Hymenaeus and Alexander, who were delivered over to Satan that they might learn not to blaspheme. What a grand revenge you have taken! I saw you innocent, and I deceived you. Four years after, you find me a Christian enthusiast; you then work upon me, perhaps to my complete perdition! But Tess, my coz, as I used to call you, this is only my way of talking, and you must not look so horribly concerned. Of course you have done nothing except retain your pretty face and shapely figure. I saw it on the rick before you saw me -- that tight pinafore-thing sets it off, and that wing-bonnet -- you field-girls should never wear those bonnets if you wish to keep out of danger
I believe that if the bachelor-apostle, whose deputy I thought I was, had been tempted by such a pretty face, he would have let go the plough for her sake as I do
Well, this paradise that you supply is perhaps as good as any other, after all. But to speak seriously, Tess
Since I last saw you, I have been thinking of what you said that HE said. I have come to the conclusion that there does seem rather a want of common-sense in these threadbare old propositions; how I could have been so fired by poor Parson Clare's enthusiasm, and have gone so madly to work, transcending even him, I cannot make out! As for what you said last time, on the strength of your wonderful husband's intelligence -- whose name you have never told me -- about having what they call an ethical system without any dogma, I don't see my way to that at all
Why, you can have the religion of loving-kindness and purity at least, if you can't have -- what do you call it -- dogma
O no! I'm a different sort of fellow from that! If there's nobody to say, 'Do this, and it will be a good thing for you after you are dead; do that, and if will be a bad thing for you,' I can't warm up. Hang it, I am not going to feel responsible for my deeds and passions if there's nobody to be responsible to; and if I were you, my dear, I wouldn't either
Well, never mind
Here I am, my love, as in the old times
Not as then -- never as then --'tis different
And there was never warmth with me! O why didn't you keep your faith, if the loss of it has brought you to speak to me like this
Because you've knocked it out of me; so the evil be upon your sweet head! Your husband little thought how his teaching would recoil upon him! Ha-ha -- I'm awfully glad you have made an apostate of me all the same! Tess, I am more taken with you than ever, and I pity you too. For all your closeness, I see you are in a bad way -- neglected by one who ought to cherish you
It is cruelty to me
How -- how can you treat me to this talk, if you care ever so little for me
True, true
I did not come to reproach you for my deeds. I came Tess, to say that I don't like you to be working like this, and I have come on purpose for you. You say you have a husband who is not I. Well, perhaps you have; but I've never seen him, and you've not told me his name; and altogether he seems rather a mythological personage. However, even if you have one, I think I am nearer to you than he is. I, at any rate, try to help you out of trouble, but he does not, bless his invisible face! The words of the stern prophet Hosea that I used to read come back to me. Don't you know them, Tess?-- 'And she shall follow after her lover, but she shall not overtake him; and she shall seek him, but shall not find him; then shall she say, I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better with me than now!' ... Tess, my trap is waiting just under the hill, and -- darling mine, not his!-- you know the rest
You have been the cause of my backsliding
you should be willing to share it, and leave that mule you call husband for ever
Now, punish me
Whip me, crush me; you need not mind those people under the rick! I shall not cry out. Once victim, always victim -- that's the law
O no, no, Tess
I can make full allowance for this. Yet you most unjustly forget one thing, that I would have married you if you had not put it out of my power to do so. Did I not ask you flatly to be my wife -- hey? Answer me
You did
And you cannot be. But remember one thing
Remember, my lady, I was your master once! I will be your master again. If you are any man's wife you are mine
So much for our quarrel
Now I shall leave you, and shall come again for your answer during the afternoon. You don't know me yet! But I know you
What -- after all -- my insulting slap, too
I should indeed be foolish to feel offended at anything you say or do
How the little limbs tremble! You are as weak as a bled calf, you know you are; and yet you need have done nothing since I arrived. How could you be so obstinate? However, I have told the farmer that he has no right to employ women at steam-threshing. It is not proper work for them; and on all the better class of farms it has been given up, as he knows very well. I will walk with you as far as your home
O yes
Walk wi' me if you will! I do bear in mind that you came to marry me before you knew o' my state. Perhaps -- perhaps you are a little better and kinder than I have been thinking you were. Whatever is meant as kindness I am grateful for; whatever is meant in any other way I am angered at. I cannot sense your meaning sometimes
If I cannot legitimize our former relations at least I can assist you. And I will do it with much more regard for your feelings than I formerly showed. My religious mania, or whatever it was, is over. But I retain a little good nature; I hope I do. Now, Tess, by all that's tender and strong between man and woman, trust me! I have enough and more than enough to put you out of anxiety, both for yourself and your parents and sisters. I can make them all comfortable if you will only show confidence in me
Have you seen 'em lately
Yes. They didn't know where you were. It was only by chance that I found you here
Don't mention my little brothers and sisters -- don't make me break down quite
If you want to help them -- God knows they need it -- do it without telling me. But no, no
I will take nothing from you, either for them or for me
I am coming soon
Now
if Angel proposes leaving Rio for a visit home at the end of next month, as he told us that he hoped to do, I think this may hasten his plans; for I believe it to be from his wife
Dear fellow, I hope he will get home safely
To my dying day I shall feel that he has been ill-used. You should have sent him to Cambridge in spite of his want of faith and given him the same chance as the other boys had. He would have grown out of it under proper influence, and perhaps would have taken Orders after all. Church or no Church, it would have been fairer to him
Tess
What -- is it 'Liza-Lu
Yes, I have been traipsing about all day, Tess
a-trying to find 'ee; and I'm very tired
What is the matter at home
Mother is took very bad, and the doctor says she's dying, and as father is not very well neither, and says 'tis wrong for a man of such a high family as his to slave and drave at common labouring work, we don't know what to do
I'm thinking of sending round to all the old antiqueerians in this part of England
asking them to subscribe to a fund to maintain me. I'm sure they'd see it as a romantical, artistical, and proper thing to do. They spend lots o' money in keeping up old ruins, and finding the bones o' things, and such like; and living remains must be more interesting to 'em still, if they only knowed of me. Would that somebody would go round and tell 'em what there is living among 'em, and they thinking nothing of him! IfPa's on Tringham, who discovered me, had lived, he'd ha' done it, I'm sure
If I were inclined to joke, I should say, How much this seems like Paradise
What do you say
A jester might say this is just like Paradise. You are Eve, and I am the old Other One come to tempt you in the disguise of an inferior animal. I used to be quite up in that scene of Milton's when I was theological. Some of it goes -- "'Empress, the way is ready, and not long, Beyond a row of myrtles... ... If thou accept My conduct, I can bring thee thither soon.' 'Lead then,' said Eve. 

"And so on. My dear Tess, I am only putting this to you as a thing that you might have supposed or said quite untruly, because you think so badly of me
I never said you were Satan, or thought it. I don't think of you in that way at all. My thoughts of you are quite cold, except when you affront me. What, did you come digging here entirely because of me
Entirely. To see you; nothing more. The smockfrock, which I saw hanging for sale as I came along, was an afterthought, that I mightn't be noticed. I come to protest against your working like this
But I like doing it -- it is for my father
Your engagement at the other place is ended
Yes
Where are you going to next? To join your dear husband
O -- I don't know
I have no husband
It is quite true -- in the sense you mean. But you have a friend, and I have determined that you shall be comfortable in spite of yourself. When you get down to your house you will see what I have sent there for you
O, Alec, I wish you wouldn't give me anything at all! I cannot take it from you! I don't like -- it is not right
It IS right
I am not going to see a woman whom I feel so tenderly for as I do for you in trouble without trying to help her
But I am very well off! I am only in trouble about -- about -- not about living at all
About the children -- your brothers and sisters
I've been thinking of them
If your mother does not recover, somebody ought to do something for them; since your father will not be able to do much, I suppose
He can with my assistance. He must
And with mine
No, sir
How damned foolish this is
Why, he thinks we are the same family; and will be quite satisfied
He don't. I've undeceived him
The more fool you
O, Tessy -- what do you think! 'Liza-Lu is a-crying, and there's a lot of folk in the house, and mother is a good deal better, but they think father is dead
What, Tess, shan't we talk to father never no more
But father was only a little bit ill
Liza-Lu came up. "He dropped down just now, and the doctor who was there for mother said there was no chance for him, because his heart was growed in
I ought never to have come home
Didn't you see me
I was not attending
I heard you, I believe, though I fancied it was a carriage and horses. I was in a sort of dream
Ah! you heard the d'Urberville Coach, perhaps. You know the legend, I suppose
No. My -- somebody was going to tell it me once, but didn't
If you are a genuine d'Urberville I ought not to tell you either, I suppose. As for me, I'm a sham one, so it doesn't matter. It is rather dismal. It is that this sound of a non-existent coach can only be heard by one of d'Urberville blood, and it is held to be of ill-omen to the one who hears it. It has to do with a murder, committed by one of the family, centuries ago
Now you have begun it, finish it
Very well. One of the family is said to have abducted some beautiful woman, who tried to escape from the coach in which he was carrying her off, and in the struggle he killed her -- or she killed him -- I forget which. Such is one version of the tale... I see that your tubs and buckets are packed. Going away, aren't you
Yes, to-morrow -- Old Lady Day
I heard you were, but could hardly believe it; it seems so sudden. Why is it
Father's was the last life on the property, and when that dropped we had no further right to stay. Though we might, perhaps, have stayed as weekly tenants -- if it had not been for me
What about you
I am not a -- proper woman
What a blasted shame! Miserable snobs! May their dirty souls be burnt to cinders
That's why you are going, is it? Turned out
We are not turned out exactly; but as they said we should have to go soon, it was best to go now everybody was moving, because there are better chances
Where are you going to
Kingsbere. We have taken rooms there. Mother is so foolish about father's people that she will go there
But your mother's family are not fit for lodgings, and in a little hole of a town like that. Now why not come to my garden-house at Trantridge? There are hardly any poultry now, since my mother's death; but there's the house, as you know it, and the garden. It can be whitewashed in a day, and your mother can live there quite comfortably; and I will put the children to a good school. Really I ought to do something for you
But we have already taken the rooms at Kingsbere
And we can wait there
Wait -- what for? For that nice husband, no doubt. Now look here, Tess, I know what men are, and, bearing in mind the _grounds_ of your separation, I am quite positive he will never make it up with you. Now, though I have been your enemy, I am your friend, even if you won't believe it. Come to this cottage of mine. We'll get up a regular colony of fowls, and your mother can attend to them excellently; and the children can go to school
How do I know that you would do all this? Your views may change -- and then -- we should be -- my mother would be -- homeless again
O no -- no. I would guarantee you against such as that in writing, if necessary. Think it over
Please just tell your mother
It is her business to judge -- not yours. I shall get the house swept out and whitened to-morrow morning, and fires lit; and it will be dry by the evening, so that you can come straight there. Now mind, I shall expect you
I owe you something for the past, you know
And you cured me, too, of that craze; so I am glad
I would rather you had kept the craze, so that you had kept the practice which went with it
I am glad of this opportunity of repaying you a little. To-morrow I shall expect to hear your mother's goods unloading... Give me your hand on it now -- dear, beautiful Tess
Damnation -- you are very cruel
No, no!-- I know you didn't do it on purpose. Well I shall expect you, or your mother and children at least
I shall not come -- I have plenty of money
Where
At my father-in-law's, if I ask for it
IF you ask for it. But you won't, Tess; I know you; you'll never ask for it -- you'll starve first
You go to the devil
This is the last night that we shall sleep here, dears, in the house where we were born
We ought to think of it, oughtn't we
Sing to me, dears
What shall we sing
Anything you know; I don't mind
I see the tracks of a horse outside the window
Hev somebody called
No
Why, Tess, the gentleman a-horseback
He didn't call
He spoke to me in passing
Who was the gentleman
Your husband
No. He'll never, never come
Then who was it
Oh, you needn't ask. You've seen him before, and so have I
Ah! What did he say
I will tell you when we are settled in our lodging at Kingsbere to-morrow -- every word
Marian and Izz
Are you house-ridding to-day, like everybody else
Do you know that the gentleman who follows 'ee -- you'll guess who I mean -- came to ask for 'ee at Flintcomb after you had gone? We didn't tell'n where you was, knowing you wouldn't wish to see him
Ah -- but I did see him
He found me
And do he know where you be going
I think so
Husband come back
No
You be the woman they call Mrs Durbeyfield, I reckon
Though widow of the late Sir John d'Urberville, poor nobleman, if I cared for my rights; and returning to the domain of his forefathers
Oh? Well, I know nothing about that; but if you be Mrs Durbeyfield, I am sent to tell 'ee that the rooms you wanted be let. We didn't know that you was coming till we got your letter this morning -- when 'twas too late. But no doubt you can get other lodgings somewhere
What shall we do now, Tess
Here's a welcome to your ancestors' lands! However, let's try further
Very well -- unload it here
I'll get shelter somewhere
Isn't your family vault your own freehold
Why, of course 'tis, and that's where we will camp, girls, till the place of your ancestors finds us a roof! Now, Tess and 'Liza and Abraham, you help me. We'll make a nest for these children, and then we'll have another look round
If it comes to the worst we can sleep there too, for one night
But let us try further on, and get something for the dears to eat! O, Tess, what's the use of your playing at marrying gentlemen, if it leaves us like this
Ah -- I'm looking for you
This is indeed a family gathering on the historic spot
Where is Tess
I saw you come in
and got up there not to interrupt your meditations. A family gathering, is it not, with these old fellows under us here? Listen
That shook them a bit, I'll warrant
And you thought I was the mere stone reproduction of one of them. But no. The old order changeth. The little finger of the sham d'Urberville can do more for you than the whole dynasty of the real underneath... Now command me. What shall I do
Go away
I will -- I'll look for your mother
Mind this; you'll be civil yet
Why am I on the wrong side of this door
Tisn't as though she had never known him afore
His having won her once makes all the difference in the world. 'Twould be a thousand pities if he were to tole her away again. Mr Clare can never be anything to us, Izz; and why should we grudge him to her, and not try to mend this quarrel? If he could on'y know what straits she's put to, and what's hovering round, he might come to take care of his own
Could we let him know
Plenty of time yet
He doesn't reach Chalk-Newton till six, even if the train should be punctual, and ten miles of country-road, five of them in Crimmercrock Lane, are not jogged over in a hurry by our old horse
But he has done it in an hour with us, my dear
Years ago
O, my boy, my boy -- home again at last
O, it is not Angel -- not my son -- the Angel who went away
I was ill over there, you know
I am all right now
Has any letter come for me lately
I received the last you sent on by the merest chance, and after considerable delay through being inland; or I might have come sooner
It was from your wife, we supposed
It was
It is quite true
Perhaps she will never be reconciled to me
Don't, Angel, be so anxious about a mere child of the soil
Child of the soil! Well, we all are children of the soil. I wish she were so in the sense you mean; but let me now explain to you what I have never explained before, that her father is a descendant in the male line of one of the oldest Norman houses, like a good many others who lead obscure agricultural lives in our villages, and are dubbed 'sons of the soil
I am coming soon
Honour'd Sir, Look to your Wife if you do love her as much as she do love you
From Two Well-Wishers
Ah, sir, now that's a man who didn't want to lie here, but wished to be carried to Kingsbere, where his ancestors be
And why didn't they respect his wish
Oh -- no money. Bless your soul, sir, why -- there, I wouldn't wish to say it everywhere, but -- even this headstone, for all the flourish wrote upon en, is not paid for
Ah, who put it up
I want to see her at once
You said you would write to me again, but you have not done so
Because she've not come home
Do you know if she is well
I don't. But you ought to, sir
I admit it. Where is she staying
I -- don't know exactly where she is staying
She was -- but
Where was she
Well, she is not there now
Is this the gentleman who is going to marry Tess
He has married her
Go inside
Do you think Tess would wish me to try and find her? If not, of course
I don't think she would
Are you sure
I am sure she wouldn't
I am sure she would
I know her better than you do
That's very likely, sir; for I have never really known her
Please tell me her address, Mrs Durbeyfield, in kindness to a lonely wretched man
She is at Sandbourne
Ah -- where there? Sandbourne has become a large place, they say
I don't know more particularly than I have said -- Sandbourne. For myself, I was never there
Are you in want of anything
No, sir
We are fairly well provided for
Do you know the address of a Mrs Clare
Of a Miss Durbeyfield
Durbeyfield
There's visitors coming and going every day, as you know, sir
and without the name of the house 'tis impossible to find 'em
I know no name of Durbeyfield; but there is the name of d'Urberville at The Herons
That's it
What place is The Herons
A stylish lodging-house. 'Tis all lodging-houses here, bless 'ee
Mrs d'Urberville
Yes
Will you kindly tell her that a relative is anxious to see her
It is rather early. What name shall I give, sir
Angel
Mr Angel
No; Angel. It is my Christian name. She'll understand
I'll see if she is awake
Dear me! what will she think of me, so altered as I am
Tess
can you forgive me for going away? Can't you -- come to me? How do you get to be -- like this
It is too late
I did not think rightly of you -- I did not see you as you were
I have learnt to since, dearest Tessy mine
Too late, too late
Don't come close to me, Angel! No -- you must not. Keep away
But don't you love me, my dear wife, because I have been so pulled down by illness? You are not so fickle -- I am come on purpose for you -- my mother and father will welcome you now
Yes -- O, yes, yes! But I say, I say it is too late
Don't you know all -- don't you know it? Yet how do you come here if you do not know
I inquired here and there, and I found the way
I waited and waited for you
But you did not come! And I wrote to you, and you did not come! He kept on saying you would never come any more, and that I was a foolish woman. He was very kind to me, and to mother, and to all of us after father's death. He
I don't understand
He has won me back to him
He is upstairs. I hate him now, because he told me a lie -- that you would not come again; and you HAVE come! These clothes are what he's put upon me: I didn't care what he did wi' me! But -- will you go away, Angel, please, and never come any more
Ah -- it is my fault
O -- O -- O
O -- O -- O
What's the matter
And then my dear, dear husband came home to me ... and I did not know it! ... And you had used your cruel persuasion upon me ... you did not stop using it -- no -- you did not stop! My little sisters and brothers and my mother's needs -- they were the things you moved me by ... and you said my husband would never come back -- never; and you taunted me, and said what a simpleton I was to expect him! ... And at last I believed you and gave way! ... And then he came back! Now he is gone. Gone a second time, and I have lost him now for ever ... and he will not love me the littlest bit ever any more -- only hate me! ... O yes, I have lost him now -- again because of -- you
And he is dying -- he looks as if he is dying! ... And my sin will kill him and not kill me! ... O, you have torn my life all to pieces ... made me be what I prayed you in pity not to make me be again! ... My own true husband will never, never -- O God -- I can't bear this!-- I cannot
My good God, the gentleman in bed is dead! I think he has been hurt with a knife -- a lot of blood had run down upon the floor
I saw you -- turn away from the station -- just before I got there -- and I have been following you all this way
Angel
do you know what I have been running after you for? To tell you that I have killed him
What
I have done it -- I don't know how
Still, I owed it to you, and to myself, Angel. I feared long ago, when I struck him on the mouth with my glove, that I might do it some day for the trap he set for me in my simple youth, and his wrong to you through me. He has come between us and ruined us, and now he can never do it any more. I never loved him at all, Angel, as I loved you. You know it, don't you? You believe it? You didn't come back to me, and I was obliged to go back to him. Why did you go away -- why did you -- when I loved you so? I can't think why you did it. But I don't blame you; only, Angel, will you forgive me my sin against you, now I have killed him? I thought as I ran along that you would be sure to forgive me now I have done that. It came to me as a shining light that I should get you back that way. I could not bear the loss of you any longer -- you don't know how entirely I was unable to bear your not loving me! Say you do now, dear, dear husband; say you do, now I have killed him
I do love you, Tess -- O, I do -- it is all come back
But how do you mean -- you have killed him
I mean that I have
What, bodily? Is he dead
Yes. He heard me crying about you, and he bitterly taunted me; and called you by a foul name; and then I did it. My heart could not bear it. He had nagged me about you before. And then I dressed myself and came away to find you
I will not desert you! I will protect you by every means in my power, dearest love, whatever you may have done or not have done
Are we going anywhere in particular
I don't know, dearest. Why
I don't know
Well, we might walk a few miles further, and when it is evening find lodgings somewhere or other -- in a lonely cottage, perhaps. Can you walk well, Tessy
O yes! I could walk for ever and ever with your arm round me
I feel strong enough to walk any distance
I think we may as well steer in a general way towards the interior of the country, where we can hide for a time, and are less likely to be looked for than anywhere near the coast
Later on, when they have forgotten us, we can make for some port
I know it
It is Bramshurst Court. You can see that it is shut up, and grass is growing on the drive
Some of the windows are open
Just to air the rooms, I suppose
All these rooms empty, and we without a roof to our heads
You are getting tired, my Tess
We'll stop soon
Could we sleep under the trees
I have been thinking of that empty mansion we passed
Let us go back towards it again
Now, we can get in through one of the lower windows, and rest there
Rest at last
Why didn't you tell me next day
It might have prevented much misunderstanding and woe
Don't think of what's past
I am not going to think outside of now. Why should we! Who knows what to-morrow has in store
Why should we put an end to all that's sweet and lovely
What must come will come
All is trouble outside there; inside here content
And -- and
I fear that what you think of me now may not last. I do not wish to outlive your present feeling for me. I would rather not. I would rather be dead and buried when the time comes for you to despise me, so that it may never be known to me that you despised me
I cannot ever despise you
I also hope that. But considering what my life has been, I cannot see why any man should, sooner or later, be able to help despising me.... How wickedly mad I was! Yet formerly I never could bear to hurt a fly or a worm, and the sight of a bird in a cage used often to make me cry
I think we will leave at once
It is a fine day. And I cannot help fancying somebody is about the house. At any rate, the woman will be sure to come to-day
Ah, happy house -- goodbye
My life can only be a question of a few weeks. Why should we not have stayed there
Don't say it, Tess! We shall soon get out of this district altogether. We'll continue our course as we've begun it, and keep straight north. Nobody will think of looking for us there. We shall be looked for at the Wessex ports if we are sought at all. When we are in the north we will get to a port and away
What monstrous place is this
It hums
Hearken
What can it be
A very Temple of the Winds
It is Stonehenge
The heathen temple, you mean
Yes. Older than the centuries; older than the d'Urbervilles! Well, what shall we do, darling? We may find shelter further on
I don't want to go any further, Angel
Can't we bide here
I fear not. This spot is visible for miles by day, although it does not seem so now
One of my mother's people was a shepherd hereabouts, now I think of it. And you used to say at Talbothays that I was a heathen. So now I am at home
Sleepy are you, dear? I think you are lying on an altar
I like very much to be here
It is so solemn and lonely -- after my great happiness -- with nothing but the sky above my face. It seems as if there were no folk in the world but we two; and I wish there were not -- except 'Liza-Lu
Angel, if anything happens to me, will you watch over 'Liza-Lu for my sake
I will
She is so good and simple and pure. O, Angel -- I wish you would marry her if you lose me, as you will do shortly. O, if you would
If I lose you I lose all! And she is my sister-in-law
That's nothing, dearest. People marry sister-laws continually about Marlott; and 'Liza-Lu is so gentle and sweet, and she is growing so beautiful. O, I could share you with her willingly when we are spirits! If you would train her and teach her, Angel, and bring her up for your own self! ... She had all the best of me without the bad of me; and if she were to become yours it would almost seem as if death had not divided us... Well, I have said it. I won't mention it again
Did they sacrifice to God here
No
Who to
I believe to the sun. That lofty stone set away by itself is in the direction of the sun, which will presently rise behind it
This reminds me, dear
You remember you never would interfere with any belief of mine before we were married? But I knew your mind all the same, and I thought as you thought -- not from any reasons of my own, but because you thought so. Tell me now, Angel, do you think we shall meet again after we are dead? I want to know
O, Angel -- I fear that means no
And I wanted so to see you again -- so much, so much! What -- not even you and I, Angel, who love each other so well
It is no use, sir
There are sixteen of us on the Plain, and the whole country is reared
Let her finish her sleep
What is it, Angel
Have they come for me
Yes, dearest
They have come
It is as it should be
Angel, I am almost glad -- yes, glad! This happiness could not have lasted. It was too much. I have had enough; and now I shall not live for you to despise me
I am ready
</text>
