<text>
It is Mrs. Sedley's coach, sister
Sambo, the black servant, has just rung the bell; and the coachman has a new red waistcoat
Have you completed all the necessary preparations incident to Miss Sedley's departure, Miss Jemima
The girls were up at four this morning, packing her trunks, sister
we have made her a bow-pot
Say a bouquet, sister Jemima, 'tis more genteel
Well, a booky as big almost as a haystack; I have put up two bottles of the gillyflower water for Mrs. Sedley, and the receipt for making it, in Amelia's box
And I trust, Miss Jemima, you have made a copy of Miss Sedley's account. This is it, is it? Very good -- ninety-three pounds, four shillings. Be kind enough to address it to John Sedley, Esquire, and to seal this billet which I have written to his lady
Lines addressed to a young lady on quitting Miss Pinkerton's school, at the Mall; by the late revered Doctor Samuel Johnson
For whom is this, Miss Jemima
For Becky Sharp
For Becky Sharp: she's going too
MISS JEMIMA
Are you in your senses? Replace the Dixonary in the closet, and never venture to take such a liberty in future
Well, sister, it's only two-and-ninepence, and poor Becky will be miserable if she don't get one
Send Miss Sedley instantly to me
Send my letters under cover to my grandpapa, the Earl of Dexter
Never mind the postage, but write every day, you dear darling
Amelia, when I write to you I shall call you Mamma
foolish, twaddling
QUITE TRUE
You'll go in and say good-by to Miss Pinkerton, Becky
I suppose I must
Mademoiselle, je viens vous faire mes adieux
Miss Sharp, I wish you a good morning
Heaven bless you, my child
Come away, Becky
Stop
It's some sandwiches, my dear
You may be hungry, you know; and Becky, Becky Sharp, here's a book for you that my sister -- that is, I -- Johnson's Dixonary, you know; you mustn't leave us without that. Good-by. Drive on, coachman. God bless you
Well, I never
what an audacious
So much for the Dixonary; and, thank God, I'm out of Chiswick
I dreamed last night that I was flogged by Dr. Raine
How could you do so, Rebecca
Why, do you think Miss Pinkerton will come out and order me back to the black-hole
No: but
I hate the whole house
I hope I may never set eyes on it again. I wish it were in the bottom of the Thames, I do; and if Miss Pinkerton were there, I wouldn't pick her out, that I wouldn't. O how I should like to see her floating in the water yonder, turban and all, with her train streaming after her, and her nose like the beak of a wherry
Hush
Why, will the black footman tell tales
He may go back and tell Miss Pinkerton that I hate her with all my soul; and I wish he would; and I wish I had a means of proving it, too. For two years I have only had insults and outrage from her. I have been treated worse than any servant in the kitchen. I have never had a friend or a kind word, except from you. I have been made to tend the little girls in the lower schoolroom, and to talk French to the Misses, until I grew sick of my mother tongue. But that talking French to Miss Pinkerton was capital fun, wasn't it? She doesn't know a word of French, and was too proud to confess it. I believe it was that which made her part with me; and so thank Heaven for French. Vive la France! Vive l'Empereur! Vive Bonaparte
O Rebecca, Rebecca, for shame
Long live Bonaparte
Long live Lucifer
How can you -- how dare you have such wicked, revengeful thoughts
Revenge may be wicked, but it's natural
I'm no angel
What airs that girl gives herself, because she is an Earl's grand-daughter
How they cringe and bow to that Creole, because of her hundred thousand pounds! I am a thousand times cleverer and more charming than that creature, for all her wealth. I am as well bred as the Earl's grand-daughter, for all her fine pedigree; and yet every one passes me by here. And yet, when I was at my father's, did not the men give up their gayest balls and parties in order to pass the evening with me
I am here to speak French with the children
not to teach them music, and save money for you. Give me money, and I will teach them
For five-and-thirty years
I never have seen the individual who has dared in my own house to question my authority. I have nourished a viper in my bosom
A viper -- a fiddlestick
You took me because I was useful. There is no question of gratitude between us. I hate this place, and want to leave it. I will do nothing here but what I am obliged to do
Give me a sum of money
and get rid of me -- or, if you like better, get me a good place as governess in a nobleman's family -- you can do so if you please
Get me a situation -- we hate each other, and I am ready to go
I cannot, certainly
find fault with Miss Sharp's conduct, except to myself; and must allow that her talents and accomplishments are of a high order. As far as the head goes, at least, she does credit to the educational system pursued at my establishment
'tis the only point in Amelia's behaviour
A dem fine gal, egad
that it must be delightful to have a brother
Not alone
you know, Rebecca, I shall always be your friend, and love you as a sister -- indeed I will
Ah, but to have parents, as you have -- kind, rich, affectionate parents, who give you everything you ask for; and their love, which is more precious than all! My poor papa could give me nothing, and I had but two frocks in all the world! And then, to have a brother, a dear brother! Oh, how you must love him
What! don't you love him? you, who say you love everybody
Yes, of course, I do -- only
Only what
Only Joseph doesn't seem to care much whether I love him or not. He gave me two fingers to shake when he arrived after ten years' absence! He is very kind and good, but he scarcely ever speaks to me; I think he loves his pipe a great deal better than his
He was very kind to me as a child
I was but five years old when he went away
Isn't he very rich
They say all Indian nabobs are enormously rich
I believe he has a very large income
And is your sister-in-law a nice pretty woman
La! Joseph is not married
I think you must have had enough of them at Chiswick
If Mr. Joseph Sedley is rich and unmarried, why should I not marry him? I have only a fortnight, to be sure, but there is no harm in trying
Feel my heart, how it beats, dear
No, it doesn't
Come in, don't be frightened. Papa won't do you any harm
It's only your sister, Joseph
I've come home FOR GOOD, you know; and this is my friend, Miss Sharp, whom you have heard me mention
No, never, upon my word
that is, yes -- what abominably cold weather, Miss
He's very handsome
Do you think so
I'll tell him
Darling! not for worlds
Thank you for the beautiful shawls, brother
Are they not beautiful, Rebecca
O heavenly
I can't make you such handsome presents, Joseph
but while I was at school, I have embroidered for you a very beautiful pair of braces
Good Gad! Amelia
what do you mean
For heaven's sake see if my buggy's at the door. I CAN'T wait. I must go. D --- that groom of mine. I must go
What's the matter, Emmy
Joseph wants me to see if his -- his buggy is at the door. What is a buggy, Papa
It is a one-horse palanquin
This young lady is your friend? Miss Sharp, I am very happy to see you. Have you and Emmy been quarrelling already with Joseph, that he wants to be off
I promised Bonamy of our service, sir
to dine with him
O fie! didn't you tell your mother you would dine here
But in this dress it's impossible
Look at him, isn't he handsome enough to dine anywhere, Miss Sharp
Did you ever see a pair of buckskins like those at Miss Pinkerton's
Gracious heavens! Father
There now, I have hurt his feelings. Mrs. Sedley, my dear, I have hurt your son's feelings. I have alluded to his buckskins. Ask Miss Sharp if I haven't? Come, Joseph, be friends with Miss Sharp, and let us all go to dinner
There's a pillau, Joseph, just as you like it, and Papa has brought home the best turbot in Billingsgate
Come, come, sir, walk downstairs with Miss Sharp, and I will follow with these two young women
come out
Is the girl making fun of me
Does she really think I am handsome
or is she only making game of me
She is as vain as a man
I must be very quiet
and very much interested about India
What is it
Capital
Mother, it's as good as my own curries in India
Oh, I must try some, if it is an Indian dish
I am sure everything must be good that comes from there
Give Miss Sharp some curry, my dear
Do you find it as good as everything else from India
Oh, excellent
Try a chili with it, Miss Sharp
A chili
Oh yes
How fresh and green they look
Water, for Heaven's sake, water
They are real Indian, I assure you
Sambo, give Miss Sharp some water
I ought to have remembered the pepper which the Princess of Persia puts in the cream-tarts in the Arabian Nights. Do you put cayenne into your cream-tarts in India, sir
Cream-tarts, Miss? Our cream is very bad in Bengal. We generally use goats' milk; and, 'gad, do you know, I've got to prefer it
You won't like EVERYTHING from India now, Miss Sharp
Have a care, Joe; that girl is setting her cap at you
Pooh! nonsense
I recollect, sir, there was a girl at Dumdum, a daughter of Cutler of the Artillery, and afterwards married to Lance, the surgeon, who made a dead set at me in the year '4 -- at me and Mulligatawney, whom I mentioned to you before dinner -- a devilish good fellow Mulligatawney -- he's a magistrate at Budgebudge, and sure to be in council in five years. Well, sir, the Artillery gave a ball, and Quintin, of the King's14 th, said to me, 'Sedley,' said he, 'I bet you thirteen to ten that Sophy Cutler hooks either you or Mulligatawney before the rains.' 'Done,' says I; and egad, sir -- this claret's very good. Adamson's or Carbonell's
A nice, gay, merry young creature
How she looked at me when I picked up her handkerchief at dinner! She dropped it twice. Who's that singing in the drawing-room? 'Gad! shall I go up and see
I'll go and see the Forty Thieves
There goes Joseph
Miss Sharp has frightened him away
Poor Joe, why WILL he be so shy
What! you who have shown the poor orphan what happiness and love are for the first time in her life -- quit YOU? Never
Sir
Mr. Sambo
You know, her father was our drawing-master, Mamma, at Chiswick, and used to do all the best parts of our drawings
My love! I'm sure I always heard Miss Pinkerton say that he did not touch them -- he only mounted them
It was called mounting, Mamma. Rebecca remembers the drawing, and her father working at it, and the thought of it came upon her rather suddenly -- and so, you know, she
The poor child is all heart
I wish she could stay with us another week
She's devilish like Miss Cutler that I used to meet at Dumdum, only fairer. She's married now to Lance, the Artillery Surgeon. Do you know, Ma'am, that once Quintin, of the14 th, bet me
O Joseph, we know that story
I'm better, now
How kind you all are to me! All
except you, Mr. Joseph
Me
Yes; how could you be so cruel as to make me eat that horrid pepper-dish at dinner, the first day I ever saw you? You are not so good to me as dear Amelia
He doesn't know you so well
I defy anybody not to be good to you, my dear
The curry was capital; indeed it was
Perhaps there was NOT enough citron juice in it -- no, there was NOT
And the chilis
By Jove, how they made you cry out
I shall take care how I let YOU choose for me another time
I didn't think men were fond of putting poor harmless girls to pain
By Gad, Miss Rebecca, I wouldn't hurt you for the world
No
Egad
I exactly begin to feel as I did at Dumdum with Miss Cutler
When I was a girl at school
Now
that Rebecca is with us, will be the very time
O, delightful
To-night is not the night
Well, to-morrow
To-morrow your Papa and I dine out
You don't suppose that I'm going, Mrs. Sed
and that a woman of your years and size is to catch cold, in such an abominable damp place
Let Joe go
He's big enough
Undo his stays
Fling some water in his face, Miss Sharp, or carry him upstairs: the dear creature's fainting. Poor victim! carry him up; he's as light as a feather
If I stand this, sir, I'm d
Order Mr. Jos's elephant, Sambo
It's all fair on the Stock Exchange, Jos -- and, Sambo, never mind the elephant, but give me and Mr. Jos a glass of Champagne. Boney himself hasn't got such in his cellar, my boy
The girls must have a gentleman apiece
Jos will be sure to leave Emmy in the crowd, he will be so taken up with Miss Sharp here. Send to 96, and ask George Osborne if he'll come
Amelia had better write a note
and let George Osborne see what a beautiful handwriting we have brought back from Miss Pinkerton's. Do you remember when you wrote to him to come on Twelfth-night, Emmy, and spelt twelfth without the f
That was years ago
It seems like yesterday, don't it, John
It was quite wicked of you, Mr. Sedley
to torment the poor boy so
My dear
Jos is a great deal vainer than you ever were in your life, and that's saying a good deal. Though, some thirty years ago, in the year seventeen hundred and eighty -- what was it?-- perhaps you had a right to be vain -- I don't say no. But I've no patience with Jos and his dandified modesty. It is out-Josephing Joseph, my dear, and all the while the boy is only thinking of himself, and what a fine fellow he is. I doubt, Ma'am, we shall have some trouble with him yet. Here is Emmy's little friend making love to him as hard as she can; that's quite clear; and if she does not catch him some other will. That man is destined to be a prey to woman, as I am to go on 'Change every day. It's a mercy he did not bring us over a black daughter- in-law, my dear. But, mark my words, the first woman who fishes for him, hooks him
She shall go off to-morrow, the little artful creature
Why not she as well as another, Mrs. Sedley? The girl's a white face at any rate. I don't care who marries him. Let Joe please himself
Do you remember, Sedley, what a fury you were in, when I cut off the tassels of your Hessian boots, and how Miss -- hem!-- how Amelia rescued me from a beating, by falling down on her knees and crying out to her brother Jos, not to beat little George
Well, do you remember coming down in a gig to Dr. Swishtail's to see me, before you went to India, and giving me half a guinea and a pat on the head? I always had an idea that you were at least seven feet high, and was quite astonished at your return from India to find you no taller than myself
How good of Mr. Sedley to go to your school and give you the money
Yes, and after I had cut the tassels of his boots too. Boys never forget those tips at school, nor the givers
I delight in Hessian boots
Miss Sharp
you who are so clever an artist, you must make a grand historical picture of the scene of the boots. Sedley shall be represented in buckskins, and holding one of the injured boots in one hand; by the other he shall have hold of my shirt-frill. Amelia shall be kneeling near him, with her little hands up; and the picture shall have a grand allegorical title, as the frontispieces have in the Medulla and the spelling-book
I shan't have time to do it here
O that you could stay longer, dear Rebecca
Why
That I may be only the more unhap -- unwilling to lose you
Let us have some music, Miss Sedley -- Amelia
There is no need to ask family secrets
Those two have told theirs
As soon as he gets his company
I believe the affair is settled. George Osborne is a capital fellow
And your sister the dearest creature in the world
Happy the man who wins her
For your mother's sake, dear Mr. Sedley
for the sake of all your friends, promise NEVER to go on one of those horrid expeditions
Pooh, pooh, Miss Sharp
the danger makes the sport only the pleasanter
For any one who wants a purse
O Miss Sharp, how
Did you ever hear anything like your brother's eloquence
Why, your friend has worked miracles
The more the better
You would not have listened to me
had you heard Rebecca first
I give Miss Sharp warning, though
that, right or wrong, I consider Miss Amelia Sedley the first singer in the world
You shall hear
When I'm gone
deep-toned voice faltered
My dear Miss Sharp, one little teaspoonful of jelly to recruit you after your immense -- your -- your delightful exertions
Bravo, Jos
It's evident the poor devil's in love with me
She is just as rich as most of the girls who come out to India. I might go farther, and fare worse, egad
Bravo, Jos
Thank you, dear Joseph
O heavenly, heavenly flowers
Do they talk the language of flowers at Boggley Wollah, Sedley
Pooh, nonsense
Bought 'em at Nathan's; very glad you like 'em; and eh, Amelia, my dear, I bought a pine-apple at the same time, which I gave to Sambo. Let's have it for tiffin; very cool and nice this hot weather
What a beautiful, BYOO-OOTIFUL song that was you sang last night, dear Miss Sharp
It made me cry almost; 'pon my honour it did
Because you have a kind heart, Mr. Joseph; all the Sedleys have, I think
It kept me awake last night, and I was trying to hum it this morning, in bed; I was, upon my honour. Gollop, my doctor, came in at eleven (for I'm a sad invalid, you know, and see Gollop every day), and, 'gad! there I was, singing away like -- a robin
O you droll creature! Do let me hear you sing it
Me? No, you, Miss Sharp; my dear Miss Sharp, do sing it
Not now, Mr. Sedley
My spirits are not equal to it; besides, I must finish the purse. Will you help me, Mr. Sedley
I am sure he will to-night, dear
Gad, I'll pop the question at Vauxhall
mutual principles
Hullo, Dobbin
here's good news in the paper. Sugars is ris', my boy
If a pound of mutton-candles cost sevenpence-halfpenny, how much must Dobbin cost
Your father's only a merchant, Osborne
I can't
I want to finish my letter
You CAN'T
You CAN'T
I should like to know why, pray? Can't you write to old Mother Figs to-morrow
Don't call names
Well, sir, will you go
Put down the letter
no gentleman readth letterth
Well, NOW will you go
No, I won't. Don't strike, or I'll THMASH you
How dare you, sir, break the bottle
How dare you, sir, break it
you blundering little thief. You drank the shrub, and now you pretend to have broken the bottle. Hold out your hand, sir
Hold out your other hand, sir
Take that, you little devil
Hold off, Cuff; don't bully that child any more; or I'll
Or you'll what
Hold out your hand, you little beast
I'll give you the worst thrashing you ever had in your life
After school
Make your will, and communicate your last wishes to your friends between this time and that
As you please
You must be my bottle holder, Osborne
Well, if you like
What a licking I shall get when it's over
You'd best give in
it's only a thrashing, Figs, and you know I'm used to it
Well hit, by Jove
Give it him with the left, Figs my boy
Go it, Figs
Go it, Cuff
I think that will do for him
It's my fault, sir -- not Figs'-- not Dobbin's. I was bullying a little boy; and he served me right
After all, it's not his fault that his father's a grocer
Mrs. Sedley, Ma'am, I hope you have room; I've asked Dobbin of ours to come and dine here, and go with us to Vauxhall. He's almost as modest as Jos
Modesty! pooh
He is -- but you are incomparably more graceful, Sedley
I met him at the Bedford, when I went to look for you; and I told him that Miss Amelia was come home, and that we were all bent on going out for a night's pleasuring; and that Mrs. Sedley had forgiven his breaking the punch-bowl at the child's party. Don't you remember the catastrophe, Ma'am, seven years ago
Over Mrs. Flamingo's crimson silk gown
What a gawky it was! And his sisters are not much more graceful. Lady Dobbin was at Highbury last night with three of them. Such figures! my dears
The Alderman's very rich, isn't he
Don't you think one of the daughters would be a good spec for me, Ma'am
You foolish creature! Who would take you, I should like to know, with your yellow face
Mine a yellow face? Stop till you see Dobbin. Why, he had the yellow fever three times; twice at Nassau, and once at St. Kitts
Well, well; yours is quite yellow enough for us. Isn't it, Emmy
I don't care about Captain Dobbin's complexion
or about his awkwardness. I shall always like him, I know
There's not a finer fellow in the service
nor a better officer, though he is not an Adonis, certainly
Ah, mon beau Monsieur! I think I have YOUR gauge
Well, is it possible -- are you the little maid I remember in the pink frock, such a short time ago -- the night I upset the punch-bowl, just after I was gazetted? Are you the little girl that George Osborne said should marry him? What a blooming young creature you seem, and what a prize the rogue has got
He's priming himself
life
I shall leave the fellow half my property
and he will have, besides, plenty of his own; but as I am perfectly sure that if you, and I, and his sister were to die to-morrow, he would say 'Good Gad!' and eat his dinner just as well as usual, I am not going to make myself anxious about him. Let him marry whom he likes. It's no affair of mine
But, lor', Ma'am
we was only grocers when we married Mr. S., who was a stock-broker's clerk, and we hadn't five hundred pounds among us, and we're rich enough now
Let Jos marry whom he likes
it's no affair of mine. This girl has no fortune; no more had Mrs. Sedley. She seems good-humoured and clever, and will keep him in order, perhaps. Better she, my dear, than a black Mrs. Sedley, and a dozen of mahogany grandchildren
I say, Dobbin
just look to the shawls and things, there's a good fellow
How I should like to see India
SHOULD you
I should only be de trop
I'd best go and talk to the hermit
Waiter, rack punch
Novel without a Hero
Brayvo, Fat un
Angcore, Daniel Lambert
What a figure for the tight-rope
For Heaven's sake, Jos, let us get up and go
Stop, my dearest diddle-diddle-darling
Be off, you fools
Good Heavens! Dobbin, where have you been
Make yourself useful, and take charge of Jos here, whilst I take the ladies to the carriage
Bless you! Bless you
He must propose to-morrow
He called me his soul's darling, four times; he squeezed my hand in Amelia's presence. He must propose to-morrow
Mr. Sedley was uncommon wild last night, sir
He wanted to fight the 'ackney-coachman, sir. The Capting was obliged to bring him upstairs in his harms like a babby
Mr. Hosbin
How are you, Sedley
No bones broke? There's a hackney-coachman downstairs with a black eye, and a tied-up head, vowing he'll have the law of you
What do you mean -- law
For thrashing him last night -- didn't he, Dobbin? You hit out, sir, like Molyneux. The watchman says he never saw a fellow go down so straight. Ask Dobbin
You DID have a round with the coachman
and showed plenty of fight too
And that fellow with the white coat at Vauxhall! How Jos drove at him! How the women screamed! By Jove, sir, it did my heart good to see you. I thought you civilians had no pluck; but I'll never get in your way when you are in your cups, Jos
I believe I'm very terrible, when I'm roused
You hit, you poor old fellow
You terrible! Why, man, you couldn't stand -- you made everybody laugh in the Gardens, though you were crying yourself. You were maudlin, Jos. Don't you remember singing a song
A what
A sentimental song, and calling Rosa, Rebecca, what's her name, Amelia's little friend -- your dearest diddle-diddle-darling
Why should I spare him
What the deuce right has he to give himself his patronizing airs, and make fools of us at Vauxhall? Who's this little schoolgirl that is ogling and making love to him? Hang it, the family's low enough already, without HER. A governess is all very well, but I'd rather have a lady for my sister-in-law. I'm a liberal man; but I've proper pride, and know my own station: let her know hers. And I'll take down that great hectoring Nabob, and prevent him from being made a greater fool than he is. That's why I told him to look out, lest she brought an action against him
I suppose you know best
You always were a Tory, and your family's one of the oldest in England. But
Come and see the girls, and make love to Miss Sharp yourself
Sister Anne is on the watch-tower
I think it's very cruel of you to laugh, George
O Miss Sharp! if you could but see him this morning
moaning in his flowered dressing-gown -- writhing on his sofa; if you could but have seen him lolling out his tongue to Gollop the apothecary
See whom
Whom? O whom? Captain Dobbin, of course, to whom we were all so attentive, by the way, last night
We were very unkind to him
I -- I quite forgot him
Of course you did
One can't be ALWAYS thinking about Dobbin, you know, Amelia. Can one, Miss Sharp
Except when he overset the glass of wine at dinner
I never gave the existence of Captain Dobbin one single moment's consideration
Very good, Miss Sharp, I'll tell him
He is to make fun of me, is he
Has he been laughing about me to Joseph? Has he frightened him? Perhaps he won't come
You're always joking
Joke away, Mr. George; there's nobody to defend ME
My dearest Amelia
you are too good -- too kind. You don't know the world. I do. And your little friend Miss Sharp must learn her station
Don't you think Jos will
Upon my word, my dear, I don't know. He may, or may not. I'm not his master. I only know he is a very foolish vain fellow, and put my dear little girl into a very painful and awkward position last night. My dearest diddle-diddle-darling
Note from Mr. Jos, Miss
Orphan of the Forest
Don't take on, Miss. I didn't like to tell you. But none of us in the house have liked her except at fust. I sor her with my own eyes reading your Ma's letters. Pinner says she's always about your trinket-box and drawers, and everybody's drawers, and she's sure she's put your white ribbing into her box
I gave it her, I gave it her
I don't trust them governesses, Pinner
They give themselves the hairs and hupstarts of ladies, and their wages is no better than you nor me
That's George's present to you, Rebecca, dear
What a taste he has! There's nobody like him
Nobody
How thankful I am to him
It was George Osborne who prevented my marriage
God bless you, my dear, always come here when you come to town, you know.-- Drive to the Mansion House, James
Rotten! be hanged -- it produces me a good fifteen hundred a year
I wonder, does he wear a star
This Sir Pitt Crawley's
Ees
Hand down these 'ere trunks then
Hand 'n down yourself
Don't you see I can't leave my hosses? Come, bear a hand, my fine feller, and Miss will give you some beer
Take this basket and shawl, if you please, and open the door
I shall write to Mr. Sedley and inform him of your conduct
Don't
I hope you've forgot nothink? Miss 'Melia's gownds -- have you got them -- as the lady's maid was to have 'ad? I hope they'll fit you. Shut the door, Jim, you'll get no good out of 'ER
a bad lot, I tell you, a bad lot
Had your dinner, I suppose? It is not too warm for you? Like a drop of beer
Where is Sir Pitt Crawley
He, he! I'm Sir Pitt Crawley. Reklect you owe me a pint for bringing down your luggage. He, he! Ask Tinker if I aynt. Mrs. Tinker, Miss Sharp; Miss Governess, Mrs. Charwoman. Ho, ho
Where's the farden
I gave you three halfpence. Where's the change, old Tinker
There
A farthing a day is seven shillings a year
seven shillings a year is the interest of seven guineas. Take care of your farthings, old Tinker, and your guineas will come quite nat'ral
You may be sure it's Sir Pitt Crawley, young woman
because he looks to his farthings. You'll know him better afore long
And like me none the worse, Miss Sharp
I must be just before I'm generous
He never gave away a farthing in his life
Never, and never will: it's against my principle. Go and get another chair from the kitchen, Tinker, if you want to sit down; and then we'll have a bit of supper
You see, Miss Sharp, when I'm not here Tinker's on board wages: when I'm in town she dines with the family. Haw! haw! I'm glad Miss Sharp's not hungry, ain't you, Tink
I'm here on law business, my dear, and that's how it happens that I shall have the pleasure of such a pretty travelling companion to- morrow
He's always at law business
Drink and drink about
Yes; my dear, Tinker is quite right: I've lost and won more lawsuits than any man in England. Look here at Crawley, Bart. v. Snaffle. I'll throw him over, or my name's not Pitt Crawley. Podder and another versus Crawley, Bart. Overseers of Snaily parish against Crawley, Bart. They can't prove it's common: I'll defy 'em; the land's mine. It no more belongs to the parish than it does to you or Tinker here. I'll beat 'em, if it cost me a thousand guineas. Look over the papers; you may if you like, my dear. Do you write a good hand? I'll make you useful when we're at Queen's Crawley, depend on it, Miss Sharp. Now the dowager's dead I want some one
She was as bad as he
She took the law of every one of her tradesmen; and turned away forty-eight footmen in four year
She was close -- very close
but she was a valyble woman to me, and saved me a steward
You'll sleep with Tinker to-night
it's a big bed, and there's room for two. Lady Crawley died in it. Good night
I shouldn't like to sleep in this yeer bed without a good conscience, Miss
There's room for us and a half-dozen of ghosts in it
Tell me all about Lady Crawley and Sir Pitt Crawley, and everybody, my DEAR Mrs. Tinker
You'd better not
it's Sir Pitt Crawley
So it is, Joe
and I'd like to see the man can do me
So should oi
Keep the box for me, Leader
Yes, Sir Pitt
But won't I flog 'em on to Squashmore, when I take the ribbons
And sarve 'em right, Master Jack
There's an avenue
a mile long. There's six thousand pound of timber in them there trees. Do you call that nothing
Serve him right
him and his family has been cheating me on that farm these hundred and fifty years
he and his family
Is that your church, sir
Yes, hang it
how's Buty, Hodson? Buty's my brother Bute, my dear -- my brother the parson. Buty and the Beast I call him, ha, ha
I'm afraid he's better, Sir Pitt. He was out on his pony yesterday, looking at our corn
Looking after his tithes, hang'un (only he used the same wicked word). Will brandy and water never kill him? He's as tough as old whatdyecallum -- old Methusalem
The young men is home from college. They've whopped John Scroggins till he's well nigh dead
Whop my second keeper
He was on the parson's ground, sir
Pitch into 'em, Hodson
flog their little souls out, and bring 'em up to the house, the vagabonds; I'll commit 'em as sure as my name's Pitt
No candles after eleven o'clock, Miss Becky
and unless you wish me to come for the candle every night, mind and be in bed at eleven
I call the dog Gorer
he's killed a man that dog has, and is master of a bull, and the mother I used to call Flora; but now I calls her Aroarer, for she's too old to bite. Haw, haw
This is the new governess, Mr. Crawley
Miss Sharp
O
I hope you will be kind to my girls
Law, Ma, of course she will
My lady is served
Mutton broth, I believe, Sir Pitt
Mouton aux navets
and the soup is potage de mouton a l'Ecossaise. The side-dishes contain pommes de terre au naturel, and choufleur a l'eau
Mutton's mutton
and a devilish good thing. What SHIP was it, Horrocks, and when did you kill
Who took any
Steel, of Mudbury, took the saddle and two legs, Sir Pitt; but he says the last was too young and confounded woolly, Sir Pitt
Capital Scotch broth, my dear
though they call it by a French name
I believe it is the custom, sir, in decent society
I believe they were eaten in the servants' hall
They was, my lady
and precious little else we get there neither
That there little black pig of the Kent sow's breed must be uncommon fat now
It's not quite busting, Sir Pitt
Miss Crawley, Miss Rose Crawley
your laughter strikes me as being exceedingly out of place
Never mind, my lord
we'll try the porker on Saturday. Kill un on Saturday morning, John Horrocks. Miss Sharp adores pork, don't you, Miss Sharp
Put away the cards, girls
We will resume yesterday's discourse, young ladies
with hay-coloured whiskers and straw-coloured hair
Ah gredin! Ah monstre
kyind friends
My lady is served
The Sailor's True Binnacle
The Applewoman of Finchley Common
I am alone in the world
I have nothing to look for but what my own labour can bring me; and while that little pink-faced chit Amelia, with not half my sense, has ten thousand pounds and an establishment secure, poor Rebecca (and my figure is far better than hers) has only herself and her own wits to trust to. Well, let us see if my wits cannot provide me with an honourable maintenance, and if some day or the other I cannot show Miss Amelia my real superiority over her. Not that I dislike poor Amelia: who can dislike such a harmless, good-natured creature?-- only it will be a fine day when I can take my place above her in the world, as why, indeed, should I not
I must be my own mamma
Smollett
Oh, Smollett
His history is more dull, but by no means so dangerous as that of Mr. Hume. It is history you are reading
Yes
Oh, thank you, sir
Blood is everything, after all
How Miss Sharp is awakened by my words, when not one of the people here is touched. I am too fine for them -- too delicate. I must familiarise my style -- but she understands it. Her mother was a Montmorency
Thrump's Legacy
The Blind Washerwoman of Moorfields
She is a godless woman of the world
she lives with atheists and Frenchmen. My mind shudders when I think of her awful, awful situation, and that, near as she is to the grave, she should be so given up to vanity, licentiousness, profaneness, and folly
Shut up your sarmons, Pitt, when Miss Crawley comes down
she has written to say that she won't stand the preachifying
O, sir! consider the servants
The servants be hanged
Why, hang it, Pitt
You wouldn't be such a flat as to let three thousand a year go out of the family
What is money compared to our souls, sir
You mean that the old lady won't leave the money to you
blood
And for what follows after death
He will sow his wild oats
and is worth far more than that puling hypocrite of a brother of his
town
Matilda must leave me half her money
The black porker's killed -- weighed x stone -- salted the sides -- pig's pudding and leg of pork for dinner. Mr. Cramp from Mudbury, over with Sir Pitt about putting John Blackmore in gaol -- Mr. Pitt at meeting (with all the names of the people who attended) -- my lady as usual -- the young ladies with the governess
What an abandoned wretch
Who
can we consult but the excellent, the incomparable Miss Pinkerton
When I come into the country
I leave my toady, Miss Briggs, at home. My brothers are my toadies here, my dear, and a pretty pair they are
I'll serve you out, Miss, when your aunt's gone
blood
By Jove, she's a neat little filly
I'll go and play a country-dance
My dear Miss Sharp
why not bring over your girls to the Rectory?-- their cousins will be so happy to see them
Why did you ask that scoundrel, Rawdon Crawley, to dine
I don't want the fellow. He looks down upon us country people as so many blackamoors. He's never content unless he gets my yellow-sealed wine, which costs me ten shillings a bottle, hang him! Besides, he's such an infernal character -- he's a gambler -- he's a drunkard -- he's a profligate in every way. He shot a man in a duel -- he's over head and ears in debt, and he's robbed me and mine of the best part of Miss Crawley's fortune. Waxy says she has him
down in her will for fifty thousand; and there won't be above thirty to divide
I think she's going
She was very red in the face when we left dinner. I was obliged to unlace her
She drank seven glasses of champagne
and filthy champagne it is, too, that my brother poisons us with -- but you women never know what's what
We know nothing
She drank cherry-brandy after dinner
and took curacao with her coffee. I wouldn't take a glass for a five-pound note: it kills me with heartburn. She can't stand it, Mrs. Crawley -- she must go -- flesh and blood won't bear it! and I lay five to two, Matilda drops in a year
Pitt can't be such an infernal villain as to sell the reversion of the living. And that Methodist milksop of an eldest son looks to Parliament
Sir Pitt Crawley will do anything
We must get Miss Crawley to make him promise it to James
Pitt will promise anything
He promised he'd pay my college bills, when my father died; he promised he'd build the new wing to the Rectory; he promised he'd let me have Jibb's field and the Six-acre Meadow -- and much he executed his promises! And it's to this man's son -- this scoundrel, gambler, swindler, murderer of a Rawdon Crawley, that Matilda leaves the bulk of her money. I say it's un-Christian. By Jove, it is. The infamous dog has got every vice except hypocrisy, and that belongs to his brother
Hush, my dearest love! we're in Sir Pitt's grounds
I say he has got every vice, Mrs. Crawley. Don't Ma'am, bully me. Didn't he shoot Captain Marker? Didn't he rob young Lord Dovedale at the Cocoa-Tree? Didn't he cross the fight between Bill Soames and the Cheshire Trump, by which I lost forty pound? You know he did; and as for the women, why, you heard that before me, in my own magistrate's room
For heaven's sake, Mr. Crawley
spare me the details
And you ask this villain into your house
You, the mother of a young family -- the wife of a clergyman of the Church of England. By Jove
Bute Crawley, you are a fool
Well, Ma'am, fool or not -- and I don't say, Martha, I'm so clever as you are, I never did. But I won't meet Rawdon Crawley, that's flat. I'll go over to Huddleston, that I will, and see his black greyhound, Mrs. Crawley; and I'll run Lancelot against him for fifty. By Jove, I will; or against any dog in England. But I won't meet that beast Rawdon Crawley
Mr. Crawley, you are intoxicated, as usual
Not let Miss Sharp dine at table
My dear creature, do you suppose I can talk about the nursery with Lady Fuddleston, or discuss justices' business with that goose, old Sir Giles Wapshot? I insist upon Miss Sharp appearing. Let Lady Crawley remain upstairs, if there is no room. But little Miss Sharp! Why, she's the only person fit to talk to in the county
Becky Sharp! Miss Sharp! Come you and sit by me and amuse me; and let Sir Huddleston sit by Lady Wapshot
Come to my dressing room, Becky, and let us abuse the company
My dear, you are a perfect trouvaille
I wish you could come to me in London, but I couldn't make a butt of you as I do of poor Briggs no, no, you little sly creature; you are too clever -- Isn't she, Firkin
I think Miss is very clever
We must sit together
We're the only three Christians in the county, my love
What is birth, my dear
Look at my brother Pitt; look at the Huddlestons, who have been here since Henry II; look at poor Bute at the parsonage -- is any one of them equal to you in intelligence or breeding? Equal to you -- they are not even equal to poor dear Briggs, my companion, or Bowls, my butler. You, my love, are a little paragon -- positively a little jewel -- You have more brains than half the shire -- if merit had its reward you ought to be a Duchess -- no, there ought to be no duchesses at all -- but you ought to have no superior, and I consider you, my love, as my equal in every respect; and -- will you put some coals on the fire, my dear; and will you pick this dress of mine, and alter it, you who can do it so well
That was the most beautiful part of dear Lord Nelson's character
He went to the deuce for a woman. There must be good in a man who will do that. I adore all impudent matches.-- What I like best, is for a nobleman to marry a miller's daughter, as Lord Flowerdale did -- it makes all the women so angry -- I wish some great man would run away with you, my dear; I'm sure you're pretty enough
Two post-boys!-- Oh, it would be delightful
And what I like next best, is for a poor fellow to run away with a rich girl. I have set my heart on Rawdon running away with some one
A rich some one, or a poor some one
Why, you goose! Rawdon has not a shilling but what I give him. He is crible de dettes -- he must repair his fortunes, and succeed in the world
Is he very clever
Clever, my love?-- not an idea in the world beyond his horses, and his regiment, and his hunting, and his play; but he must succeed -- he's so delightfully wicked. Don't you know he has hit a man, and shot an injured father through the hat only? He's adored in his regiment; and all the young men at Wattier's and the Cocoa-Tree swear by him
What's that
It's a false note
O those stars, those stars
I feel myself almost a spirit when I gaze upon them
O -- ah -- Gad -- yes, so do I exactly, Miss Sharp
You don't mind my cigar, do you, Miss Sharp
Jove -- aw -- Gad -- aw -- it's the finest segaw I ever smoked in the world aw
He be a bad'n, sure enough
and his man Flethers is wuss, and have made such a row in the housekeeper's room about the dinners and hale, as no lord would make -- but I think Miss Sharp's a match for'n, Sir Pitt
We don't care a fig for her
She is fade and insipid
We are kind to her
What could George find in that creature
I'm so delighted you like dear Amelia
She's engaged to my brother George; there's not much in her, but she's the best-natured and most unaffected young creature: at home we're all so fond of her
Oh, you must go to the Sedleys' to ask for George; WE never see him from morning till night
What an innocent it is, that pet of yours
Did you see how he blushed at the mention of poor George on duty
It's a pity Frederick Bullock hadn't some of his modesty, Maria
Modesty! Awkwardness you mean, Jane. I don't want Frederick to trample a hole in my muslin frock, as Captain Dobbin did in yours at Mrs. Perkins'
In YOUR frock, he, he! How could he? Wasn't he dancing with Amelia
He was with his sister, most likely
Should he go and fetch the truant
What! leave our brother to come to us
Have you had a quarrel, Amelia? Do tell us
Who could quarrel with him
Battle of Leipsic -- six hundred thousand men engaged -- total defeat of the French -- two hundred thousand killed
And not the first either
That Osborne's a devil of a fellow. There was a judge's daughter at Demerara went almost mad about him; then there was that beautiful quadroon girl, Miss Pye, at St. Vincent's, you know; and since he's been home, they say he's a regular Don Giovanni, by Jove
Cackle, you're a stupid fool. You're always talking nonsense and scandal. Osborne is not going to run off with a Duchess or ruin a milliner. Miss Sedley is one of the most charming young women that ever lived. He's been engaged to her ever so long; and the man who calls her names had better not do so in my hearing
Who the deuce asked you to talk about my affairs
Why the devil is all the regiment to know that I am going to be married? Why is that tattling old harridan, Peggy O'Dowd, to make free with my name at her d -- d supper-table, and advertise my engagement over the three kingdoms? After all, what right have you to say I am engaged, or to meddle in my business at all, Dobbin
It seems to me
Seems be hanged, Dobbin
I am under obligations to you, I know it, a d -- d deal too well too; but I won't be always sermonised by you because you're five years my senior. I'm hanged if I'll stand your airs of superiority and infernal pity and patronage. Pity and patronage! I should like to know in what I'm your inferior
Are you engaged
What the devil's that to you or any one here if I am
Are you ashamed of it
What right have you to ask me that question, sir? I should like to know
Good God, you don't mean to say you want to break off
In other words, you ask me if I'm a man of honour
is that what you mean? You've adopted such a tone regarding me lately that I'm ------ if I'll bear it any more
What have I done? I've told you you were neglecting a sweet girl, George. I've told you that when you go to town you ought to go to her, and not to the gambling-houses about St. James's
You want your money back, I suppose
Of course I do -- I always did, didn't I
You speak like a generous fellow
No, hang it, William, I beg your pardon
you have been my friend in a hundred ways, Heaven knows. You've got me out of a score of scrapes. When Crawley of the Guards won that sum of money of me I should have been done but for you: I know I should. But you shouldn't deal so hardly with me; you shouldn't be always catechising me. I am very fond of Amelia; I adore her, and that sort of thing. Don't look angry. She's faultless; I know she is. But you see there's no fun in winning a thing unless you play for it. Hang it: the regiment's just back from the West Indies, I must have a little fling, and then when I'm married I'll reform; I will upon my honour, now. And -- I say -- Dob -- don't be angry with me, and I'll give you a hundred next month, when I know my father will stand something handsome; and I'll ask Heavytop for leave, and I'll go to town, and see Amelia to-morrow -- there now, will that satisfy you
It is impossible to be long angry with you, George
and as for the money, old boy, you know if I wanted it you'd share your last shilling with me
That I would, by Jove, Dobbin
Only I wish you had sown those wild oats of yours, George. If you could have seen poor little Miss Emmy's face when she asked me about you the other day, you would have pitched those billiard-balls to the deuce. Go and comfort her, you rascal. Go and write her a long letter. Do something to make her happy; a very little will
I believe she's d -- d fond of me
I should have liked to make her a little present
only I am quite out of cash until my father tips up
Why the devil is she here
George is in town, Papa; and has gone to the Horse Guards, and will be back to dinner
Dinner
Mr. George isn't come in, sir
Damn Mr. George, sir. Am I master of the house? DINNER
What's the matter now, my dear
I suppose the funds are falling
Soup
Take Miss Sedley's plate away
She can't eat the soup -- no more can I. It's beastly. Take away the soup, Hicks, and to-morrow turn the cook out of the house, Jane
He could not come before. General Daguilet had kept him waiting at the Horse Guards. Never mind soup or fish. Give him anything -- he didn't care what. Capital mutton -- capital everything
We never got such Madeira in the West Indies, sir, as yours. Colonel Heavytop took off three bottles of that you sent me down, under his belt the other day
Did he
It stands me in eight shillings a bottle
Will you take six guineas a dozen for it, sir
There's one of the greatest men in the kingdom wants some
Does he
Wish he may get it
When General Daguilet was at Chatham, sir, Heavytop gave him a breakfast, and asked me for some of the wine. The General liked it just as well -- wanted a pipe for the Commander-in-Chief. He's his Royal Highness's right-hand man
It is devilish fine wine
And we'll see if that's as good as the Madeira, George, to which his Royal Highness is welcome, I'm sure. And as we are drinking it, I'll talk to you about a matter of importance
What I want to know, George
what I want to know is, how you and -- ah- -that little thing upstairs, are carrying on
I think, sir, it is not hard to see
Pretty clear, sir.-- What capital wine
What d'you mean, pretty clear, sir
Why, hang it, sir, don't push me too hard. I'm a modest man. I -- ah -- I don't set up to be a lady-killer; but I do own that she's as devilish fond of me as she can be. Anybody can see that with half an eye
And you yourself
Why, sir, didn't you order me to marry her, and ain't I a good boy? Haven't our Papas settled it ever so long
A pretty boy, indeed. Haven't I heard of your doings, sir, with Lord Tarquin, Captain Crawley of the Guards, the Honourable Mr. Deuceace and that set. Have a care sir, have a care
Well, well, young men will be young men. And the comfort to me is, George, that living in the best society in England, as I hope you do; as I think you do; as my means will allow you to do
Thank you, sir
You shan't want, sir. The British merchant's son shan't want, sir. My guineas are as good as theirs, George, my boy; and I don't grudge 'em. Call on Mr. Chopper as you go through the City to-morrow; he'll have something for you. I don't grudge money when I know you're in good society, because I know that good society can never go wrong. There's no pride in me. I was a humbly born man -- but you have had advantages. Make a good use of 'em. Mix with the young nobility. There's many of 'em who can't spend a dollar to your guinea, my boy. And as for the pink bonnets (here from under the heavy eyebrows there came a knowing and not very pleasing leer)-- why boys will be boys. Only there's one thing I order you to avoid, which, if you do not, I'll cut you off with a shilling, by Jove; and that's gambling
Oh, of course, sir
But to return to the other business about Amelia: why shouldn't you marry higher than a stockbroker's daughter, George -- that's what I want to know
You and Mr. Sedley made the match a hundred years ago
I don't deny it; but people's positions alter, sir. I don't deny that Sedley made my fortune, or rather put me in the way of acquiring, by my own talents and genius, that proud position, which, I may say, I occupy in the tallow trade and the City of London. I've shown my gratitude to Sedley; and he's tried it of late, sir, as my cheque-book can show. George! I tell you in confidence I don't like the looks of Mr. Sedley's affairs. My chief clerk, Mr. Chopper, does not like the looks of 'em, and he's an old file, and knows 'Change as well as any man in London. Hulker &amp; Bullock are looking shy at him. He's been dabbling on his own account I fear. They say the Jeune Amelie was his, which was taken by the Yankee privateer Molasses. And that's flat -- unless I see Amelia's ten thousand down you don't marry her. I'll have no lame duck's daughter in my family. Pass the wine, sir -- or ring for coffee
No go
Not at no price
Mr. George Osborne, sir, how will you take it
Poor little Emmy -- dear little Emmy. How fond she is of me
and Gad, what a headache that mixed punch has given me
Had you not better give Miss Briggs a glass of wine
I think we shall be able to help each other
and shall have no need of Mr. Bowls's kind services. Mr. Bowls, if you please, we will ring when we want you
It is a pity you take on so, Miss Briggs
My dearest friend is so ill, and wo-o-on't see me
She's not very ill any more. Console yourself, dear Miss Briggs. She has only overeaten herself -- that is all. She is greatly better. She will soon be quite restored again. She is weak from being cupped and from medical treatment, but she will rally immediately. Pray console yourself, and take a little more wine
But why, why won't she see me again
Oh, Matilda, Matilda, after three-and-twenty years' tenderness! is this the return to your poor, poor Arabella
Don't cry too much, poor Arabella
she only won't see you, because she says you don't nurse her as well as I do. It's no pleasure to me to sit up all night. I wish you might do it instead
Have I not tended that dear couch for years
and now
Now she prefers somebody else. Well, sick people have these fancies, and must be humoured. When she's well I shall go
Never, never
Never be well or never go, Miss Briggs
Pooh -- she will be well in a fortnight, when I shall go back to my little pupils at Queen's Crawley, and to their mother, who is a great deal more sick than our friend. You need not be jealous about me, my dear Miss Briggs. I am a poor little girl without any friends, or any harm in me. I don't want to supplant you in Miss Crawley's good graces. She will forget me a week after I am gone: and her affection for you has been the work of years. Give me a little wine if you please, my dear Miss Briggs, and let us be friends. I'm sure I want friends
Thank you, Mrs. Firkin, that will quite do; how nicely you make it! I will ring when anything is wanted
Well, Firkin
Well, Jane
Wuss and wuss, Miss B
Is she not better then
She never spoke but once, and I asked her if she felt a little more easy, and she told me to hold my stupid tongue. Oh, Miss B., I never thought to have seen this day
What sort of a person is this Miss Sharp, Firkin? I little thought, while enjoying my Christmas revels in the elegant home of my firm friends, the Reverend Lionel Delamere and his amiable lady, to find a stranger had taken my place in the affections of my dearest, my still dearest Matilda
Trills of the Nightingale
Miss B., they are all infatyated about that young woman
Sir Pitt wouldn't have let her go, but he daredn't refuse Miss Crawley anything. Mrs. Bute at the Rectory jist as bad -- never happy out of her sight. The Capting quite wild about her. Mr. Crawley mortial jealous. Since Miss C. was took ill, she won't have nobody near her but Miss Sharp, I can't tell for where nor for why; and I think somethink has bewidged everybody
Mark my words, Rawdon
You will have Miss Sharp one day for your relation
What relation -- my cousin, hey, Mrs. Bute? James sweet on her, hey
More than that
Not Pitt? He sha'n't have her. The sneak a'n't worthy of her. He's booked to Lady Jane Sheepshanks
You men perceive nothing. You silly, blind creature -- if anything happens to Lady Crawley, Miss Sharp will be your mother-in-law; and that's what will happen
By Jove, it's too bad
too bad, by Jove! I do believe the woman wants the poor girl to be ruined, in order that she shouldn't come into the family as Lady Crawley
Well, suppose he is fond of me. I know he is, and others too. You don't think I am afraid of him, Captain Crawley? You don't suppose I can't defend my own honour
Oh, ah, why -- give you fair warning -- look out, you know -- that's all
You hint at something not honourable, then
O Gad -- really -- Miss Rebecca
Do you suppose I have no feeling of self-respect, because I am poor and friendless, and because rich people have none? Do you think, because I am a governess, I have not as much sense, and feeling, and good breeding as you gentlefolks in Hampshire? I'm a Montmorency. Do you suppose a Montmorency is not as good as a Crawley
No
I can endure poverty, but not shame -- neglect, but not insult; and insult from -- from you
Hang it, Miss Sharp -- Rebecca -- by Jove -- upon my soul, I wouldn't for a thousand pounds. Stop, Rebecca
What a complexion, my dear! What a sweet voice
My dear Sharp, your young friend is charming. Send for her to Park Lane, do you hear
Is he a man in a line-regiment
The Captain's name
was Captain Dobbin
A lanky gawky fellow
tumbles over everybody. I know him; and Osborne's a goodish-looking fellow, with large black whiskers
Enormous
and enormously proud of them, I assure you
He fancies he can play at billiards
I won two hundred of him at the Cocoa-Tree. HE play, the young flat! He'd have played for anything that day, but his friend Captain Dobbin carried him off, hang him
Rawdon, Rawdon, don't be so wicked
Why, ma'am, of all the young fellows I've seen out of the line, I think this fellow's the greenest. Tarquin and Deuceace get what money they like out of him. He'd go to the deuce to be seen with a lord. He pays their dinners at Greenwich, and they invite the company
And very pretty company too, I dare say
Quite right, Miss Sharp. Right, as usual, Miss Sharp. Uncommon pretty company -- haw, haw
Rawdon, don't be naughty
Well, his father's a City man -- immensely rich, they say. Hang those City fellows, they must bleed; and I've not done with him yet, I can tell you. Haw, haw
Fie, Captain Crawley; I shall warn Amelia. A gambling husband
Horrid, ain't he, hey
Gad, I say, ma'am, we'll have him here
Is he a presentable sort of a person
Presentable?-- oh, very well. You wouldn't see any difference
Do let's have him, when you begin to see a few people; and his whatdyecallem -- his inamorato -- eh, Miss Sharp; that's what you call it -- comes. Gad, I'll write him a note, and have him; and I'll try if he can play piquet as well as billiards. Where does he live, Miss Sharp
That is, if you're not on duty to that pretty Miss Sedley
Monstrous nice girl, 'pon my honour, though, Osborne
Lots of tin, I suppose, eh
How's little Miss Sharp, by-the-bye
Good-natured little girl that. Does she suit you well at Queen's Crawley? Miss Sedley liked her a good deal last year
Ah, Miss Sharp! how-dy-doo
She'd beat the devil, by Jove
My place
how kind of you to remind me of it! It's a tolerably good place: the wages are pretty good -- not so good as Miss Wirt's, I believe, with your sisters in Russell Square. How are those young ladies?-- not that I ought to ask
Why not
Why, they never condescended to speak to me, or to ask me into their house, whilst I was staying with Amelia; but we poor governesses, you know, are used to slights of this sort
My dear Miss Sharp
At least in some families
You can't think what a difference there is though. We are not so wealthy in Hampshire as you lucky folks of the City. But then I am in a gentleman's family -- good old English stock. I suppose you know Sir Pitt's father refused a peerage. And you see how I am treated. I am pretty comfortable. Indeed it is rather a good place. But how very good of you to inquire
I thought you liked the City families pretty well
Last year you mean, when I was fresh from that horrid vulgar school? Of course I did. Doesn't every girl like to come home for the holidays? And how was I to know any better? But oh, Mr. Osborne, what a difference eighteen months' experience makes! eighteen months spent, pardon me for saying so, with gentlemen. As for dear Amelia, she, I grant you, is a pearl, and would be charming anywhere. There now, I see you are beginning to be in a good humour; but oh these queer odd City people! And Mr. Jos -- how is that wonderful Mr. Joseph
It seems to me you didn't dislike that wonderful Mr. Joseph last year
How severe of you! Well, entre nous, I didn't break my heart about him; yet if he had asked me to do what you mean by your looks (and very expressive and kind they are, too), I wouldn't have said no
Indeed, how very obliging
What an honour to have had you for a brother-in-law, you are thinking? To be sister-in-law to George Osborne, Esquire, son of John Osborne, Esquire, son of -- what was your grandpapa, Mr. Osborne? Well, don't be angry. You can't help your pedigree, and I quite agree with you that I would have married Mr. Joe Sedley; for could a poor penniless girl do better? Now you know the whole secret. I'm frank and open; considering all things, it was very kind of you to allude to the circumstance -- very kind and polite. Amelia dear, Mr. Osborne and I were talking about your poor brother Joseph. How is he
I only just warn you
I just warn you -- I know women, and counsel you to be on the look-out
Thank you, my boy
You're wide awake, I see
Against whom
Your friend the governess.-- Don't look so astonished
O George, what have you done
Rebecca, I see it all
I suppose I must put off my party for the 3rd
I hope my brother will have the decency not to marry again
What a confounded rage Pitt will be in if he does
Here's Sir Pitt, Ma'am
My dear, I can't see him. I won't see him. Tell Bowls not at home, or go downstairs and say I'm too ill to receive any one. My nerves really won't bear my brother at this moment
She's too ill to see you, sir
So much the better
I want to see YOU, Miss Becky. Come along a me into the parlour
I wawnt you back at Queen's Crawley, Miss
I hope to come soon
as soon as Miss Crawley is better -- and return to -- to the dear children
You've said so these three months, Becky
and still you go hanging on to my sister, who'll fling you off like an old shoe, when she's wore you out. I tell you I want you. I'm going back to the Vuneral. Will you come back? Yes or no
I daren't -- I don't think -- it would be right -- to be alone -- with you, sir
I say agin, I want you
I can't git on without you. I didn't see what it was till you went away. The house all goes wrong. It's not the same place. All my accounts has got muddled agin. You MUST come back. Do come back. Dear Becky, do come
Come -- as what, sir
Come as Lady Crawley, if you like
There! will that zatusfy you? Come back and be my wife. Your vit vor't. Birth be hanged. You're as good a lady as ever I see. You've got more brains in your little vinger than any baronet's wife in the county. Will you come? Yes or no
Oh, Sir Pitt
Say yes, Becky
I'm an old man, but a good'n. I'm good for twenty years. I'll make you happy, zee if I don't. You shall do what you like; spend what you like; and 'ave it all your own way. I'll make you a zettlement. I'll do everything reglar. Look year
Oh, Sir Pitt
Oh, sir -- I -- I'm married ALREADY
Married; you're joking
You're making vun of me, Becky. Who'd ever go to marry you without a shilling to your vortune
Married! married
O Sir Pitt, dear Sir Pitt, do not think me ungrateful for all your goodness to me. It is only your generosity that has extorted my secret
Generosity be hanged
Who is it tu, then, you're married? Where was it
Let me come back with you to the country, sir! Let me watch over you as faithfully as ever! Don't, don't separate me from dear Queen's Crawley
The feller has left you, has he
Well, Becky -- come back if you like. You can't eat your cake and have it. Any ways I made you a vair offer. Coom back as governess -- you shall have it all your own way
So the rascal ran off, eh
Never mind, Becky, I'LL take care of 'ee
Oh, sir! it would be the pride of my life to go back to Queen's Crawley, and take care of the children, and of you as formerly, when you said you were pleased with the services of your little Rebecca. When I think of what you have just offered me, my heart fills with gratitude indeed it does. I can't be your wife, sir; let me -- let me be your daughter
It is the lady on the ground, and not the gentleman
They told me that YOU were on your knees, Sir Pitt: do kneel once more, and let me see this pretty couple
I have thanked Sir Pitt Crawley, Ma'am
and have told him that -- that I never can become Lady Crawley
Refused him
Yes -- refused
And am I to credit my ears that you absolutely proposed to her, Sir Pitt
Ees
I did
And she refused you as she says
Ees
It does not seem to break your heart at any rate
Nawt a bit
I'm glad you think it good sport, brother
Vamous
Who'd ha' thought it! what a sly little devil! what a little fox it waws
Who'd have thought what
Pray, Miss Sharp, are you waiting for the Prince Regent's divorce, that you don't think our family good enough for you
My attitude
Whether you marry me or not, you're a good little girl, Becky, and I'm your vriend, mind
with her humble duty to Mrs. Bute Crawley and the family at the Rectory, and Sir Pitt has been and proposed for to marry Miss Sharp, wherein she has refused him, to the wonder of all
You would have accepted it yourself, wouldn't you, Briggs
Would it not be a privilege to be Miss Crawley's sister
Well, Becky would have made a good Lady Crawley, after all
She has brains in plenty (much more wit in her little finger than you have, my poor dear Briggs, in all your head). Her manners are excellent, now I have formed her. She is a Montmorency, Briggs, and blood is something, though I despise it for my part; and she would have held her own amongst those pompous stupid Hampshire people much better than that unfortunate ironmonger's daughter
You poor friendless creatures are always having some foolish tendre
You yourself, you know, were in love with a writing-master (don't cry, Briggs -- you're always crying, and it won't bring him to life again), and I suppose this unfortunate Becky has been silly and sentimental too -- some apothecary, or house-steward, or painter, or young curate, or something of that sort
Poor thing! poor thing
Poor thing, poor thing
After such conduct on Rebecca's part
our family should do something. Find out who is the objet, Briggs. I'll set him up in a shop; or order my portrait of him, you know; or speak to my cousin, the Bishop and I'll doter Becky, and we'll have a wedding, Briggs, and you shall make the breakfast, and be a bridesmaid
Nonsense, my dear, you would never have refused him had there not been some one else in the case
Tell me the private reasons; what are the private reasons? There is some one; who is it that has touched your heart
You have guessed right, dear lady
You wonder at one so poor and friendless having an attachment, don't you? I have never heard that poverty was any safeguard against it. I wish it were
My poor dear child
is our passion unrequited, then? Are we pining in secret? Tell me all, and let me console you
I wish you could, dear Madam
Indeed, indeed, I need it
And now who is it, my dear? Is it that pretty Miss Sedley's brother? You said something about an affair with him. I'll ask him here, my dear. And you shall have him: indeed you shall
Don't ask me now
You shall know all soon. Indeed you shall. Dear kind Miss Crawley -- dear friend, may I say so
That you may, my child
I can't tell you now
I am very miserable. But O! love me always -- promise you will love me always
You know
Mrs Briefless is granddaughter of Sir John Redhand, who is so ill at Cheltenham that he can't last six months. Mrs. Briefless's papa succeeds; so you see she will be a baronet's daughter
How she sings,-- how she paints
How she rode that kicking mare at Queen's Crawley
By Jove, Beck, you're fit to be Commander-in- Chief, or Archbishop of Canterbury, by Jove
come round
You have head enough for both of us, Beck
You're sure to get us out of the scrape. I never saw your equal, and I've met with some clippers in my time too
My dear little creature
I don't intend to let you stir for years, that you may depend upon it. As for going back to that odious brother of mine after what has passed, it is out of the question. Here you stay with me and Briggs. Briggs wants to go to see her relations very often. Briggs, you may go when you like. But as for you, my dear, you must stay and take care of the old woman
La, Miss Briggs
O, Miss, something must have happened -- there's nobody in Miss Sharp's room; the bed ain't been slep in, and she've run away, and left this letter for you, Miss
WHAT
an elopement! Miss Sharp a fugitive! What, what is this
Here's Mrs. Bute Crawley just arrived by the mail from Hampshire, and wants some tea; will you come down and make breakfast, Miss
Oh, Mrs. Firkin
sech a business. Miss Sharp have a gone and run away with the Capting, and they're off to Gretney Green
And she refused Sir Pitt, my dear, dear Miss Crawley, prepare yourself for it
because -- because she couldn't help herself
Of course there was a reason
She liked somebody else. I told Briggs so yesterday
LIKES somebody else
O my dear friend, she is married already
Married already
Send her to me, the instant she comes in. The little sly wretch: how dared she not tell me
She won't come in soon. Prepare yourself, dear friend -- she's gone out for a long time -- she's -- she's gone altogether
Gracious goodness, and who's to make my chocolate? Send for her and have her back; I desire that she come back
She decamped last night, Ma'am
She left a letter for me
She's married to
Prepare her, for heaven's sake. Don't torture her, my dear Miss Briggs
She's married to whom
To -- to a relation of
She refused Sir Pitt
Speak at once. Don't drive me mad
O Ma'am -- prepare her, Miss Briggs -- she's married to Rawdon Crawley
Rawdon married Rebecca -- governess -- nobod -- Get out of my house, you fool, you idiot -- you stupid old Briggs -- how dare you? You're in the plot -- you made him marry, thinking that I'd leave my money from him -- you did, Martha
I, Ma'am, ask a member of this family to marry a drawing-master's daughter
Her mother was a Montmorency
Her mother was an opera girl, and she has been on the stage or worse herself
Her relations ought to be round about her
Where's Becky
Where's her traps? She's coming with me to Queen's Crawley
Have you not heard the astonishing intelligence regarding her surreptitious union
What's that to me
I know she's married. That makes no odds. Tell her to come down at once, and not keep me
Are you not aware, sir
that she has left our roof, to the dismay of Miss Crawley, who is nearly killed by the intelligence of Captain Rawdon's union with her
Suppose the old lady doesn't come to
suppose she don't come round, eh, Becky
I'LL make your fortune
You can do anything
By Jove you can; and we'll drive down to the Star and Garter, and dine, by Jove
I got this box at old Dives's sale
one of Louis XV's mistresses -- pretty thing, is it not?-- sweet miniature
No. 369
Portrait of a gentleman on an elephant. Who'll bid for the gentleman on the elephant? Lift up the picture, Blowman, and let the company examine this lot
Turn the elephant to the Captain, Blowman. What shall we say, sir, for the elephant
Shall we say twenty guineas for this work of art?-- fifteen, five, name your own price. The gentleman without the elephant is worth five pound
I wonder it ain't come down with him
Don't be trying to deprecate the value of the lot, Mr. Moss
let the company examine it as a work of art -- the attitude of the gallant animal quite according to natur'; the gentleman in a nankeen jacket, his gun in his hand, is going to the chase; in the distance a banyhann tree and a pagody, most likely resemblances of some interesting spot in our famous Eastern possessions. How much for this lot? Come, gentlemen, don't keep me here all day
Mr. Lewis, twenty-five
Why, Rawdon, it's Captain Dobbin
He's a very agreeable acquaintance, Beck
I'd like to sell him another horse, Beck. I'd like to play a few more games at billiards with him. He'd be what I call useful just now, Mrs. C.-- ha, ha
coming-to
Gad, I begin to perceive now why she was always bringing us together at Queen's Crawley
What an artful little woman
Well, I don't regret it, if you don't
If he had but a little more brains
My relations won't cry fie upon me
How did this begin
or where will it end
My dear fellow
I owe money in every capital in Europe
Lieutenant G. Osborne to be Captain by purchase, vice Smith, who exchanges
Look at them with their hooked beaks
They're like vultures after a battle
Don't know. Never was in action, my dear. Ask Martingale; he was in Spain, aide-de-camp to General Blazes
He was a very kind old man, Mr. Sedley
I'm really sorry he's gone wrong
O stockbrokers -- bankrupts -- used to it, you know
I wish we could have afforded some of the plate, Rawdon
Five-and-twenty guineas was monstrously dear for that little piano. We chose it at Broadwood's for Amelia, when she came from school. It only cost five-and-thirty then
What-d'-ye-call'em --'Osborne,' will cry off now, I suppose, since the family is smashed. How cut up your pretty little friend will be; hey, Becky
I daresay she'll recover it
Napoleon has landed at Cannes
She's not happy
George Osborne neglects her. I've no patience with the airs of those people. The girls have not been in the house these three weeks; and George has been twice in town without coming. Edward Dale saw him at the Opera. Edward would marry her I'm sure: and there's Captain Dobbin who, I think, would -- only I hate all army men. Such a dandy as George has become. With his military airs, indeed! We must show some folks that we're as good as they. Only give Edward Dale any encouragement, and you'll see. We must have a party, Mr. S. Why don't you speak, John? Shall I say Tuesday fortnight? Why don't you answer? Good God, John, what has happened
We're ruined, Mary. We've got the world to begin over again, dear. It's best that you should know all, and at once
My God, my God, it will break Emmy's heart
Down with such dishonesty
You fool, why do you catch at a straw
You villain, why do you shrink from plunging into the irretrievable Gazette
Captain Osborne, of course, could not marry a bankrupt's daughter
It was quite enough to have been swindled by the father. As for that little Amelia, her folly had really passed all
All what
Haven't they been engaged ever since they were children? Wasn't it as good as a marriage? Dare any soul on earth breathe a word against the sweetest, the purest, the tenderest, the most angelical of young women
La, William, don't be so highty-tighty with US. We're not men. We can't fight you
We've said nothing against Miss Sedley: but that her conduct throughout was MOST IMPRUDENT, not to call it by any worse name; and that her parents are people who certainly merit their misfortunes
Hadn't you better, now that Miss Sedley is free, propose for her yourself, William
It would be a most eligible family connection. He! he
I marry her
If you are so ready, young ladies, to chop and change, do you suppose that she is? Laugh and sneer at that angel. She can't hear it; and she's miserable and unfortunate, and deserves to be laughed at. Go on joking, Ann. You're the wit of the family, and the others like to hear it
I must tell you again we're not in a barrack, William
In a barrack, by Jove -- I wish anybody in a barrack would say what you do
I should like to hear a man breathe a word against her, by Jupiter. But men don't talk in this way, Ann: it's only women, who get together and hiss, and shriek, and cackle. There, get away -- don't begin to cry. I only said you were a couple of geese
Well, you're not geese, you're swans -- anything you like, only do, do leave Miss Sedley alone
It is a mercy, Mamma, that the regiment is ordered abroad
THIS danger, at any rate, is spared our brother
She -- she's sent me back some things I gave her -- some damned trinkets. Look here
It's all over
Look, Will, you may read it if you like
Where are they
Where are they? There's no address to the note
Take this to Captain Osborne, if you please, and -- and I hope he's quite well -- and it was very kind of you to come and see us -- and we like our new house very much. And I -- I think I'll go upstairs, Mamma, for I'm not very strong
George, she's dying
Miss Emmy
I'm coming
There's a message
There's something -- somebody -- sure, here's a new letter for you -- don't be reading them old ones any more
I must see you
Dearest Emmy -- dearest love -- dearest wife, come to me
My girls' singing, after that little odious governess's, I know is unbearable
She always used to go to sleep when Martha and Louisa played their duets. Jim's stiff college manners and poor dear Bute's talk about his dogs and horses always annoyed her. If I took her to the Rectory, she would grow angry with us all, and fly, I know she would; and might fall into that horrid Rawdon's clutches again, and be the victim of that little viper of a Sharp. Meanwhile, it is clear to me that she is exceedingly unwell, and cannot move for some weeks, at any rate; during which we must think of some plan to protect her from the arts of those unprincipled people
If that poor man of mine had a head on his shoulders
how useful he might be, under present circumstances, to this unhappy old lady! He might make her repent of her shocking free-thinking ways; he might urge her to do her duty, and cast off that odious reprobate who has disgraced himself and his family; and he might induce her to do justice to my dear girls and the two boys, who require and deserve, I am sure, every assistance which their relatives can give them
I am sure, my dear Mr. Clump
no efforts of mine have been wanting to restore our dear invalid, whom the ingratitude of her nephew has laid on the bed of sickness. I never shrink from personal discomfort: I never refuse to sacrifice myself
Your devotion, it must be confessed, is admirable
but
I have scarcely closed my eyes since my arrival: I give up sleep, health, every comfort, to my sense of duty. When my poor James was in the smallpox, did I allow any hireling to nurse him? No
You did what became an excellent mother, my dear Madam -- the best of mothers; but
As the mother of a family and the wife of an English clergyman, I humbly trust that my principles are good
and, as long as Nature supports me, never, never, Mr. Clump, will I desert the post of duty. Others may bring that grey head with sorrow to the bed of sickness (here Mrs. Bute, waving her hand, pointed to one of old Miss Crawley's coffee- coloured fronts, which was perched on a stand in the dressing-room), but I will never quit it. Ah, Mr. Clump! I fear, I know, that the couch needs spiritual as well as medical consolation
What I was going to observe, my dear Madam
what I was going to observe when you gave utterance to sentiments which do you so much honour, was that I think you alarm yourself needlessly about our kind friend, and sacrifice your own health too prodigally in her favour
I would lay down my life for my duty, or for any member of my husband's family
Yes, Madam, if need were; but we don't want Mrs Bute Crawley to be a martyr
Dr Squills and myself have both considered Miss Crawley's case with every anxiety and care, as you may suppose. We see her low-spirited and nervous; family events have agitated her
Her nephew will come to perdition
Have agitated her: and you arrived like a guardian angel, my dear Madam, a positive guardian angel, I assure you, to soothe her under the pressure of calamity. But Dr. Squills and I were thinking that our amiable friend is not in such a state as renders confinement to her bed necessary. She is depressed, but this confinement perhaps adds to her depression. She should have change, fresh air, gaiety; the most delightful remedies in the pharmacopoeia
Persuade her to rise, dear Madam; drag her from her couch and her low spirits; insist upon her taking little drives. They will restore the roses too to your cheeks, if I may so speak to Mrs. Bute Crawley
The sight of her horrid nephew casually in the Park, where I am told the wretch drives with the brazen partner of his crimes
would cause her such a shock, that we should have to bring her back to bed again. She must not go out, Mr. Clump. She shall not go out as long as I remain to watch over her; And as for my health, what matters it? I give it cheerfully, sir. I sacrifice it at the altar of my duty
Upon my word, Madam
I won't answer for her life if she remains locked up in that dark room. She is so nervous that we may lose her any day; and if you wish Captain Crawley to be her heir, I warn you frankly, Madam, that you are doing your very best to serve him
Gracious mercy! is her life in danger
Why, why, Mr. Clump, did you not inform me sooner
What a little harpy that woman from Hampshire is, Clump
that has seized upon old Tilly Crawley. Devilish good Madeira
What a fool Rawdon Crawley has been
to go and marry a governess! There was something about the girl, too
Green eyes, fair skin, pretty figure, famous frontal development
There is something about her; and Crawley was a fool, Squills
A d --- fool -- always was
Of course the old girl will fling him over
She'll cut up well, I suppose
Cut up
I wouldn't have her cut up for two hundred a year
That Hampshire woman will kill her in two months, Clump, my boy, if she stops about her
Old woman; full feeder; nervous subject; palpitation of the heart; pressure on the brain; apoplexy; off she goes. Get her up, Clump; get her out: or I wouldn't give many weeks' purchase for your two hundred a year
We must go and visit our beautiful suburbs of London
Done, by Jove
Try once more, Rawdon
Could not you lock your wheels into theirs, dearest
He will be here again to-day
He is the greatest and best of men
They must run away together, Ma'am
and follow the example of Captain Rawdon Crawley, and Miss Emmy's friend the little governess
The only chance George has of reconcilement
is by distinguishing himself in the coming campaign. If he dies they both go together. If he fails in distinction -- what then? He has some money from his mother, I have heard enough to purchase his majority -- or he must sell out and go and dig in Canada, or rough it in a cottage in the country
Sir
I am very glad to see you, Captain Dobbin, sir
How is the worthy alderman, and my lady, your excellent mother, sir
My lady
Hark ye, John, I have friends still, and persons of rank and reputation, too
Are you come to do anything in my way, sir? My young friends Dale and Spiggot do all my business for me now, until my new offices are ready; for I'm only here temporarily, you know, Captain. What can we do for you. sir? Will you like to take anything
My mother is very well -- that is, she's been very unwell, and is only waiting for the first fine day to go out and call upon Mrs. Sedley. How is Mrs. Sedley, sir? I hope she's quite well
My wife will be very happy to see her ladyship
I've a very kind letter here from your father, sir, and beg my respectful compliments to him. Lady D. will find us in rather a smaller house than we were accustomed to receive our friends in; but it's snug, and the change of air does good to my daughter, who was suffering in town rather -- you remember little Emmy, sir?-- yes, suffering a good deal
You're a military man
I ask you, Bill Dobbin, could any man ever have speculated upon the return of that Corsican scoundrel from Elba? When the allied sovereigns were here last year, and we gave 'em that dinner in the City, sir, and we saw the Temple of Concord, and the fireworks, and the Chinese bridge in St. James's Park, could any sensible man suppose that peace wasn't really concluded, after we'd actually sung Te Deum for it, sir? I ask you, William, could I suppose that the Emperor of Austria was a damned traitor -- a traitor, and nothing more? I don't mince words -- a double-faced infernal traitor and schemer, who meant to have his son-in-law back all along. And I say that the escape of Boney from Elba was a damned imposition and plot, sir, in which half the powers of Europe were concerned, to bring the funds down, and to ruin this country. That's why I'm here, William. That's why my name's in the Gazette. Why, sir?-- because I trusted the Emperor of Russia and the Prince Regent. Look here. Look at my papers. Look what the funds were on the1 st of March -- what the French fives were when I bought for the count. And what they're at now. There was collusion, sir, or that villain never would have escaped. Where was the English Commissioner who allowed him to get away? He ought to be shot, sir -- brought to a court-martial, and shot, by Jove
We're going to hunt Boney out, sir
We are going to hunt him out, sir -- the Duke's in Belgium already, and we expect marching orders every day
Give him no quarter. Bring back the villain's head, sir. Shoot the coward down, sir
I'd enlist myself, by --; but I'm a broken old man -- ruined by that damned scoundrel -- and by a parcel of swindling thieves in this country whom I made, sir, and who are rolling in their carriages now
Yes
there are some vipers that you warm, and they sting you afterwards. There are some beggars that you put on horseback, and they're the first to ride you down. You know whom I mean, William Dobbin, my boy. I mean a purse-proud villain in Russell Square, whom I knew without a shilling, and whom I pray and hope to see a beggar as he was when I befriended him
I have heard something of this, sir, from my friend George
The quarrel between you and his father has cut him up a great deal, sir. Indeed, I'm the bearer of a message from him
O, THAT'S your errand, is it
What! perhaps he condoles with me, does he? Very kind of him, the stiff-backed prig, with his dandified airs and West End swagger. He's hankering about my house, is he still? If my son had the courage of a man, he'd shoot him. He's as big a villain as his father. I won't have his name mentioned in my house. I curse the day that ever I let him into it; and I'd rather see my daughter dead at my feet than married to him
His father's harshness is not George's fault, sir. Your daughter's love for him is as much your doing as his. Who are you, that you are to play with two young people's affections and break their hearts at your will
Recollect it's not his father that breaks the match off
It's I that forbid it. That family and mine are separated for ever. I'm fallen low, but not so low as that: no, no. And so you may tell the whole race -- son, and father and sisters, and all
It's my belief, sir, that you have not the power or the right to separate those two
and that if you don't give your daughter your consent it will be her duty to marry without it. There's no reason she should die or live miserably because you are wrong-headed. To my thinking, she's just as much married as if the banns had been read in all the churches in London. And what better answer can there be to Osborne's charges against you, as charges there are, than that his son claims to enter your family and marry your daughter
We must do it without
You're terrible fellows, you Captains
My sisters say she has diamonds as big as pigeons' eggs
How they must set off her complexion! A perfect illumination it must be when her jewels are on her neck. Her jet- black hair is as curly as Sambo's. I dare say she wore a nose ring when she went to court; and with a plume of feathers in her top-knot she would look a perfect Belle Sauvage
You should have seen her dress for court, Emmy
She came to my sisters to show it off, before she was presented in state by my Lady Binkie, the Haggistoun's kinswoman. She's related to every one, that Haggistoun. Her diamonds blazed out like Vauxhall on the night we were there. (Do you remember Vauxhall, Emmy, and Jos singing to his dearest diddle diddle darling?) Diamonds and mahogany, my dear! think what an advantageous contrast -- and the white feathers in her hair -- I mean in her wool. She had earrings like chandeliers; you might have lighted 'em up, by Jove -- and a yellow satin train that streeled after her like the tail of a cornet
How old is she
Why the Black Princess, though she has only just left school, must be two or three and twenty. And you should see the hand she writes! Mrs. Colonel Haggistoun usually writes her letters, but in a moment of confidence, she put pen to paper for my sisters; she spelt satin satting, and Saint James's, Saint Jams
Why, surely it must be Miss Swartz, the parlour boarder
The very name
Her father was a German Jew -- a slave-owner they say -- connected with the Cannibal Islands in some way or other. He died last year, and Miss Pinkerton has finished her education. She can play two pieces on the piano; she knows three songs; she can write when Mrs. Haggistoun is by to spell for her; and Jane and Maria already have got to love her as a sister
I wish they would have loved me
They were always very cold to me
My dear child, they would have loved you if you had had two hundred thousand pounds
That is the way in which they have been brought up. Ours is a ready-money society. We live among bankers and City big-wigs, and be hanged to them, and every man, as he talks to you, is jingling his guineas in his pocket. There is that jackass Fred Bullock is going to marry Maria -- there's Goldmore, the East India Director, there's Dipley, in the tallow trade -- OUR trade
Curse the whole pack of money-grubbing vulgarians! I fall asleep at their great heavy dinners. I feel ashamed in my father's great stupid parties. I've been accustomed to live with gentlemen, and men of the world and fashion, Emmy, not with a parcel of turtle-fed tradesmen. Dear little woman, you are the only person of our set who ever looked, or thought, or spoke like a lady: and you do it because you're an angel and can't help it. Don't remonstrate. You are the only lady. Didn't Miss Crawley remark it, who has lived in the best company in Europe? And as for Crawley, of the Life Guards, hang it, he's a fine fellow: and I like him for marrying the girl he had chosen
You won't find
that splendour and rank to which you are accustomed at the West End, my dear Miss, at our humble mansion in Russell Square. My daughters are plain, disinterested girls, but their hearts are in the right place, and they've conceived an attachment for you which does them honour -- I say, which does them honour. I'm a plain, simple, humble British merchant -- an honest one, as my respected friends Hulker and Bullock will vouch, who were the correspondents of your late lamented father. You'll find us a united, simple, happy, and I think I may say respected, family -- a plain table, a plain people, but a warm welcome, my dear Miss Rhoda -- Rhoda, let me say, for my heart warms to you, it does really. I'm a frank man, and I like you. A glass of Champagne! Hicks, Champagne to Miss Swartz
Let George cut in directly and win her
Strike while the iron's hot, you know -- while she's fresh to the town: in a few weeks some d --- fellow from the West End will come in with a title and a rotten rent-roll and cut all us City men out, as Lord Fitzrufus did last year with Miss Grogram, who was actually engaged to Podder, of Podder &amp; Brown's. The sooner it is done the better, Mr. Osborne; them's my sentiments
a hint
You should have thought of the matter sooner, sir
for, I promise you
that one way or other you shall read the name of George Osborne in the Gazette
So that you would have me shown up as a coward, sir, and our name dishonoured for the sake of Miss Swartz's money
You will dine here to-morrow, sir, and every day Miss Swartz comes, you will be here to pay your respects to her. If you want for money, call upon Mr. Chopper
Dammy
she looked like a China doll, which has nothing to do all day but to grin and wag its head. By Jove, Will, it was all I I could do to prevent myself from throwing the sofa-cushion at her
Stop that d --- thing
It makes me mad. You play us something, Miss Swartz, do. Sing something, anything but the Battle of Prague
Shall I sing 'Blue Eyed Mary' or the air from the Cabinet
That sweet thing from the Cabinet
We've had that
I can sing 'Fluvy du Tajy
if I had the words
O, 'Fleuve du Tage
we have the song
Lor
is it my Amelia? Amelia that was at Miss P.'s at Hammersmith? I know it is. It's her. and -- Tell me about her -- where is she
Don't mention her
Her family has disgraced itself. Her father cheated Papa, and as for her, she is never to be mentioned HERE
Are you a friend of Amelia's
God bless you for it, Miss Swartz. Don't believe what the girls say. SHE'S not to blame at any rate. She's the best
You know you're not to speak about her, George
Papa forbids it
Who's to prevent me
George! George
I say
I thank everybody who loves Amelia Sed
Mrs. Haggistoun, let me take you down to dinner
Give your arm to Miss Swartz, George
Miss Swartz, I love Amelia, and we've been engaged almost all our lives
Gentlemen of the Guard, fire first
How dare you, sir, mention that person's name before Miss Swartz to-day, in my drawing-room? I ask you, sir, how dare you do it
Stop, sir
don't say dare, sir. Dare isn't a word to be used to a Captain in the British Army
I shall say what I like to my son, sir. I can cut him off with a shilling if I like. I can make him a beggar if I like. I WILL say what I like
I'm a gentleman though I AM your son, sir
Any communications which you have to make to me, or any orders which you may please to give, I beg may be couched in that kind of language which I am accustomed to hear
My father didn't give me the education you have had, nor the advantages you have had, nor the money you have had. If I had kept the company SOME FOLKS have had through MY MEANS, perhaps my son wouldn't have any reason to brag, sir, of his SUPERIORITY and WEST END AIRS (these words were uttered in the elder Osborne's most sarcastic tones). But it wasn't considered the part of a gentleman, in MY time, for a man to insult his father. If I'd done any such thing, mine would have kicked me downstairs, sir
I never insulted you, sir. I said I begged you to remember your son was a gentleman as well as yourself. I know very well that you give me plenty of money
You tell it me often enough, sir. There's no fear of my forgetting it
I wish you'd remember other things as well, sir
I wish you'd remember that in this house -- so long as you choose to HONOUR it with your COMPANY, Captain -- I'm the master, and that name, and that that -- that you -- that I say
That what, sir
that the name of those Sedleys never be mentioned here, sir -- not one of the whole damned lot of 'em, sir
It wasn't I, sir, that introduced Miss Sedley's name. It was my sisters who spoke ill of her to Miss Swartz; and by Jove I'll defend her wherever I go. Nobody shall speak lightly of that name in my presence. Our family has done her quite enough injury already, I think, and may leave off reviling her now she's down. I'll shoot any man but you who says a word against her
Go on, sir, go on
Go on about what, sir? about the way in which we've treated that angel of a girl? Who told me to love her? It was your doing. I might have chosen elsewhere, and looked higher, perhaps, than your society: but I obeyed you. And now that her heart's mine you give me orders to fling it away, and punish her, kill her perhaps -- for the faults of other people. It's a shame, by Heavens
to play at fast and loose with a young girl's affections -- and with such an angel as that -- one so superior to the people amongst whom she lived, that she might have excited envy, only she was so good and gentle, that it's a wonder anybody dared to hate her. If I desert her, sir, do you suppose she forgets me
I ain't going to have any of this dam sentimental nonsense and humbug here, sir
There shall be no beggar- marriages in my family. If you choose to fling away eight thousand a year, which you may have for the asking, you may do it: but by Jove you take your pack and walk out of this house, sir. Will you do as I tell you, once for all, sir, or will you not
Marry that mulatto woman
I don't like the colour, sir. Ask the black that sweeps opposite Fleet Market, sir. I'm not going to marry a Hottentot Venus
I've done it
What, my boy
I'll marry her to-morrow
I love her more every day, Dobbin
Couldn't get a wink of sleep till daylight, Dob
Infernal headache and fever. Got up at nine, and went down to the Hummums for a bath. I say, Dob, I feel just as I did on the morning I went out with Rocket at Quebec
So do I
I was a deuced deal more nervous than you were that morning. You made a famous breakfast, I remember. Eat something now
You're a good old fellow, Will. I'll drink your health, old boy, and farewell to
No, no; two glasses are enough
Here, take away the liqueurs, John. Have some cayenne-pepper with your fowl. Make haste though, for it is time we were there
We shall find a better trap than this at the church-door
that's a comfort
Hang it
I said only a pair
My master would have four
reg'lar shabby turn hout; and with scarce so much as a breakfast or a wedding faviour
Here you are
You're five minutes late, George, my boy. What a day, eh? Demmy, it's like the commencement of the rainy season in Bengal. But you'll find my carriage is watertight. Come along, my mother and Emmy are in the vestry
It's your turn, William
God bless you, Old Dobbin
Write directly, and come down as soon as you can, you know
Get out of the way, you little devils
Come home and have some tiffin, Dobbin
Here, you little beggars
What a monstrous fine girl that is in the lodgings over the milliner's
Gad, Crawley, did you see what a wink she gave me as I passed
Don't break her heart, Jos, you rascal
Don't trifle with her affections, you Don Juan
Get away
What shall we do, boys, till the ladies return
Let's have a game at billiards
No, dammy; no, Captain
No billiards to-day, Crawley, my boy; yesterday was enough
You play very well
Don't he, Osborne? How well he made that-five stroke, eh
Famous
Jos is a devil of a fellow at billiards, and at everything else, too. I wish there were any tiger-hunting about here! we might go and kill a few before dinner. (There goes a fine girl! what an ankle, eh, Jos?) Tell us that story about the tiger-hunt, and the way you did for him in the jungle -- it's a wonderful story that, Crawley
It's rather slow work
down here; what shall we do
Shall we go and look at some horses that Snaffler's just brought from Lewes fair
Suppose we go and have some jellies at Dutton's
Devilish fine gal at Dutton's
Suppose we go and see the Lightning come in, it's just about time
We have had a delightful drive, George
and -- and we're so glad to come back; and, Joseph, don't let him be late
Don't be leading our husbands into mischief, Mr. Sedley, you wicked, wicked man you
No billiards, no smoking, no naughtiness
My dear Mrs. Crawley -- Ah now! upon my honour
Do you remember the last time we met at Miss Crawley's, when I was so rude to you, dear Captain Osborne? I thought you seemed careless about dear Amelia. It was that made me angry: and so pert: and so unkind: and so ungrateful. Do forgive me
I wish you could see some of Rawdon's friends who are always about our door
Did you ever see a dun, my dear; or a bailiff and his man? Two of the abominable wretches watched all last week at the greengrocer's opposite, and we could not get away until Sunday. If Aunty does not relent, what shall we do
Hullo! there's old Dobbin
How are you, old fellow? Glad you're come down. Emmy'll be delighted to see you
What's the news? Have you been in Russell Square? What does the governor say? Tell me everything
I've seen your father
How's Amelia -- Mrs. George? I'll tell you all the news presently: but I've brought the great news of all: and that is
Out with it, old fellow
We're ordered to Belgium. All the army goes -- guards and all. Heavytop's got the gout, and is mad at not being able to move. O'Dowd goes in command, and we embark from Chatham next week
What a nice party it was last night
and -- and how you're improved in your dancing, Captain Dobbin. Surely somebody has taught you
You should see me dance a reel with Mrs. Major O'Dowd of ours; and a jig -- did you ever see a jig? But I think anybody could dance with you, Miss Osborne, who dance so well
Is the Major's lady young and beautiful, Captain
Ah, what a terrible thing it must be to be a soldier's wife! I wonder they have any spirits to dance, and in these dreadful times of war, too! O Captain Dobbin, I tremble sometimes when I think of our dearest George, and the dangers of the poor soldier. Are there many married officers of the -- th, Captain Dobbin
Upon my word, she's playing her hand rather too openly
One of our young men is just married
It was a very old attachment, and the young couple are as poor as church mice
O, how delightful! O, how romantic
poor
The finest young fellow in the regiment
Not a braver or handsomer officer in the army; and such a charming wife! How you would like her! how you will like her when you know her, Miss Osborne
But it's not about marriage that I came to speak -- that is that marriage -- that is -- no, I mean -- my dear Miss Osborne, it's about our dear friend George
About George
Hang it, Will, why don't you take old Jane? She'll have you if you ask her. I'll bet you five to two she will
Yes, about George, then
There has been a difference between him and Mr. Osborne. And I regard him so much -- for you know we have been like brothers -- that I hope and pray the quarrel may be settled. We must go abroad, Miss Osborne. We may be ordered off at a day's warning. Who knows what may happen in the campaign? Don't be agitated, dear Miss Osborne; and those two at least should part friends
There has been no quarrel, Captain Dobbin, except a little usual scene with Papa
We are expecting George back daily. What Papa wanted was only for his good. He has but to come back, and I'm sure all will be well; and dear Rhoda, who went away from here in sad sad anger, I know will forgive him. Woman forgives but too readily, Captain
Such an angel as YOU I am sure would
And no man can pardon himself for giving a woman pain. What would you feel, if a man were faithless to you
I should perish -- I should throw myself out of window -- I should take poison -- I should pine and die. I know I should
And there are others
as true and as kind- hearted as yourself. I'm not speaking about the West Indian heiress, Miss Osborne, but about a poor girl whom George once loved, and who was bred from her childhood to think of nobody but him. I've seen her in her poverty uncomplaining, broken-hearted, without a fault. It is of Miss Sedley I speak. Dear Miss Osborne, can your generous heart quarrel with your brother for being faithful to her? Could his own conscience ever forgive him if he deserted her? Be her friend -- she always loved you -- and -- and I am come here charged by George to tell you that he holds his engagement to her as the most sacred duty he has; and to entreat you, at least, to be on his side
Well
this is -- most surprising -- most painful -- most extraordinary -- what will Papa say?-- that George should fling away such a superb establishment as was offered to him but at any rate he has found a very brave champion in you, Captain Dobbin. It is of no use, however
I feel for poor Miss Sedley, most certainly -- most sincerely, you know. We never thought the match a good one, though we were always very kind to her here -- very. But Papa will never consent, I am sure. And a well brought up young woman, you know -- with a well-regulated mind, must -- George must give her up, dear Captain Dobbin, indeed he must
Ought a man to give up the woman he loved, just when misfortune befell her
Dear Miss Osborne, is this the counsel I hear from you? My dear young lady! you must befriend her. He can't give her up. He must not give her up. Would a man, think you, give YOU up if you were poor
I don't know whether we poor girls ought to believe what you men say, Captain
There is that in woman's tenderness which induces her to believe too easily. I'm afraid you are cruel, cruel deceivers
Deceivers
No, dear Miss Osborne, all men are not; your brother is not; George has loved Amelia Sedley ever since they were children; no wealth would make him marry any but her. Ought he to forsake her? Would you counsel him to do so
George could not give up Amelia -- George was married to her
Gad! Jane
Eels will be sorry he cried off. You may be a fifty thousand pounder yet
POLLY
YOUR SISTER'S GOT A PENNY
You'll find the governor all right
How do, my dear boy
Dobbin, my dear boy
Lord! Chopper, what a marriage we'll have
What a bumpkin he is for a Captain in the army
I wonder George hasn't taught him better manners
Sir
I've brought you some very grave news. I have been at the Horse Guards this morning, and there's no doubt that our regiment will be ordered abroad, and on its way to Belgium before the week is over. And you know, sir, that we shan't be home again before a tussle which may be fatal to many of us
My s --, the regiment will do its duty, sir, I daresay
The French are very strong, sir
The Russians and Austrians will be a long time before they can bring their troops down. We shall have the first of the fight, sir; and depend on it Boney will take care that it shall be a hard one
What are you driving at, Dobbin
I suppose no Briton's afraid of any d --- Frenchman, hey
I only mean, that before we go, and considering the great and certain risk that hangs over every one of us -- if there are any differences between you and George -- it would be as well, sir, that -- that you should shake hands: wouldn't it? Should anything happen to him, I think you would never forgive yourself if you hadn't parted in charity
You are a good fellow, William
and me and George shouldn't part in anger, that is true. Look here. I've done for him as much as any father ever did. He's had three times as much money from me, as I warrant your father ever gave you. But I don't brag about that. How I've toiled for him, and worked and employed my talents and energy, I won't say. Ask Chopper. Ask himself. Ask the City of London. Well, I propose to him such a marriage as any nobleman in the land might be proud of -- the only thing in life I ever asked him -- and he refuses me. Am I wrong? Is the quarrel of MY making? What do I seek but his good, for which I've been toiling like a convict ever since he was born? Nobody can say there's anything selfish in me. Let him come back. I say, here's my hand. I say, forget and forgive. As for marrying now, it's out of the question. Let him and Miss S. make it up, and make out the marriage afterwards, when he comes back a Colonel; for he shall be a Colonel, by G -- he shall, if money can do it. I'm glad you've brought him round. I know it's you, Dobbin. You've took him out of many a scrape before. Let him come. I shan't be hard. Come along, and dine in Russell Square to-day: both of you. The old shop, the old hour. You'll find a neck of venison, and no questions asked
Sir
I fear you deceive yourself. I am sure you do. George is much too high-minded a man ever to marry for money. A threat on your part that you would disinherit him in case of disobedience would only be followed by resistance on his
Why, hang it, man, you don't call offering him eight or ten thousand a year threatening him
Gad, if Miss S. will have me, I'm her man. I ain't particular about a shade or so of tawny
You forget, sir, previous engagements into which Captain Osborne had entered
What engagements? What the devil do you mean? You don't mean
you don't mean that he's such a d --- fool as to be still hankering after that swindling old bankrupt's daughter? You've not come here for to make me suppose that he wants to marry HER? Marry HER, that IS a good one. My son and heir marry a beggar's girl out of a gutter. D --- him, if he does, let him buy a broom and sweep a crossing. She was always dangling and ogling after him, I recollect now; and I've no doubt she was put on by her old sharper of a father
Mr. Sedley was your very good friend, sir
Time was you called him better names than rogue and swindler. The match was of your making. George had no right to play fast and loose
Fast and loose
Fast and loose! Why, hang me, those are the very words my gentleman used himself when he gave himself airs, last Thursday was a fortnight, and talked about the British army to his father who made him. What, it's you who have been a setting of him up -- is it? and my service to you, CAPTAIN. It's you who want to introduce beggars into my family. Thank you for nothing, Captain. Marry HER indeed -- he, he! why should he? I warrant you she'd go to him fast enough without
Sir
no man shall abuse that lady in my hearing, and you least of all
O, you're a-going to call me out, are you? Stop, let me ring the bell for pistols for two. Mr. George sent you here to insult his father, did he
Mr. Osborne
it's you who are insulting the best creature in the world. You had best spare her, sir, for she's your son's wife
For God's sake, what is it
The governor's in a fit. What has Mr. George been doing
He married Miss Sedley five days ago
I was his groomsman, Mr. Chopper, and you must stand his friend
If that's your news, Captain, it's bad. The governor will never forgive him
Take that plate away
Annual Register
Gentleman's Magazine
Hume and Smollett
From Georgy, requesting 5s., April 23, 18 --; answered, April 25
Georgy about a pony, October 13
Dr. S.'s accounts
Mr. Chopper presents his respectful compliments, and will have the honour and pleasure of waiting on Captain D
And a precious lot of money he has had too
I've been making a new will
And now, Chopper
my mind will be easy
if you have any Phillis to console, or to bid farewell to papa and mamma, or any will to make, I recommend you to set about your business without delay
I shall expect you at half-past five
Ha, ha
Why should I
Let her have this night happy. I'll go and see my parents early in the morning, and go down to Brighton myself to-morrow
Thank you, Dobbin
I was just -- just telling her I would. And, O Sir, she's so dam kind to me
It is my opinion, George
that the French Emperor will be upon us, horse and foot, before three weeks are over, and will give the Duke such a dance as shall make the Peninsula appear mere child's play. But you need not say that to Mrs. Osborne, you know. There mayn't be any fighting on our side after all, and our business in Belgium may turn out to be a mere military occupation. Many persons think so; and Brussels is full of fine people and ladies of fashion
It's not in my father's handwriting
A pretty way you have managed the affair
Look there, Dobbin
A beggar, by Jove, and all in consequence of my d -- d sentimentality. Why couldn't we have waited? A ball might have done for me in the course of the war, and may still, and how will Emmy be bettered by being left a beggar's widow? It was all your doing. You were never easy until you had got me married and ruined. What the deuce am I to do with two thousand pounds? Such a sum won't last two years. I've lost a hundred and forty to Crawley at cards and billiards since I've been down here. A pretty manager of a man's matters YOU are, forsooth
There's no denying that the position is a hard one
and as you say, it is partly of my making. There are some men who wouldn't mind changing with you
How many captains in the regiment have two thousand pounds to the fore, think you? You must live on your pay till your father relents, and if you die, you leave your wife a hundred a year
Do you suppose a man of my habits call live on his pay and a hundred a year
You must be a fool to talk so, Dobbin. How the deuce am I to keep up my position in the world upon such a pitiful pittance? I can't change my habits. I must have my comforts. I wasn't brought up on porridge, like MacWhirter, or on potatoes, like old O'Dowd. Do you expect my wife to take in soldiers' washing, or ride after the regiment in a baggage waggon
Well, well
we'll get her a better conveyance. But try and remember that you are only a dethroned prince now, George, my boy; and be quiet whilst the tempest lasts. It won't be for long. Let your name be mentioned in the Gazette, and I'll engage the old father relents towards you
Mentioned in the Gazette
And in what part of it? Among the killed and wounded returns, and at the top of the list, very likely
Psha! It will be time enough to cry out when we are hurt
And if anything happens, you know, George, I have got a little, and I am not a marrying man, and I shall not forget my godson in my will
I say, Becky
What
I say, what'll Mrs. O. do, when O. goes out with the regiment
I suppose she'll cry her eyes out
She has been whimpering half a dozen times, at the very notion of it, already to me
YOU don't care, I suppose
You wretch! don't you know that I intend to go with you
Besides, you're different. You go as General Tufto's aide-de-camp. We don't belong to the line
Rawdon dear -- don't you think -- you'd better get that -- money from Cupid, before he goes
Gad, what a fine night, and how bright the moon is
How delicious they smell in the open air! I adore them. Who'd think the moon was two hundred and thirty-six thousand eight hundred and forty-seven miles off
Isn't it clever of me to remember that? Pooh! we learned it all at Miss Pinkerton's! How calm the sea is, and how clear everything. I declare I can almost see the coast of France
Do you know what I intend to do one morning
I find I can swim beautifully, and some day, when my Aunt Crawley's companion -- old Briggs, you know -- you remember her -- that hook-nosed woman, with the long wisps of hair -- when Briggs goes out to bathe, I intend to dive under her awning, and insist on a reconciliation in the water. Isn't that a stratagem
What's the row there, you two
No, Emmy; it isn't that: it's not myself I care about: it's you. I have had bad news from my father. He refuses any communication with me; he has flung us off; and leaves us to poverty. I can rough it well enough; but you, my dear, how will you bear it? read here
O, George, how your poor heart must bleed at the idea of being separated from your papa
It does
But he can't be angry with you long
Nobody could, I'm sure. He must forgive you, my dearest, kindest husband. O, I shall never forgive myself if he does not
What vexes me, my poor Emmy, is not my misfortune, but yours
I don't care for a little poverty; and I think, without vanity, I've talents enough to make my own way
That you have
Yes, I shall make my way as well as another
but you, my dear girl, how can I bear your being deprived of the comforts and station in society which my wife had a right to expect? My dearest girl in barracks; the wife of a soldier in a marching regiment; subject to all sorts of annoyance and privation! It makes me miserable
Wapping Old Stairs
his trousers to mend, and his grog too to make
Besides
isn't two thousand pounds an immense deal of money, George
Wapping Old Stairs
Ghent! Brussels
Is the regiment ordered away, George -- is it ordered away
Don't be afraid, dear
it is but a twelve hours' passage. It won't hurt you. You shall go, too, Emmy
I intend to go
I'm on the staff. General Tufto is a great flirt of mine. Isn't he, Rawdon
She can't go
think of the -- of the danger
I must and will go
We'll have Mrs. O'Dowd to chaperon you
Great news
Mrs. Bute is gone. Get the money from Cupid tonight, as he'll be off to-morrow most likely. Mind this.-- R
I say, Osborne, my boy, if quite convenient, I'll trouble you for that 'ere small trifle
We might as well be in London as here
A comfortable inn in Brighton is better than a spunging-house in Chancery Lane
Think of those two aides-de-camp of Mr. Moses, the sheriff's-officer, who watched our lodging for a week. Our friends here are very stupid, but Mr. Jos and Captain Cupid are better companions than Mr. Moses's men, Rawdon, my love
I wonder the writs haven't followed me down here
When they do, we'll find means to give them the slip
It will hardly be enough to pay the inn bill
Why need we pay it
my poor Missus du take her physic like a lamb
She's no spirit left in her
she ain't ave called me a fool these three weeks
Miss Sh -- Mrs. Crawley
Dear, dear friend
Can I ever forget her who so befriended the friendless orphan? No, though she has cast me off
I shall never cease to love her, and I would devote my life to her service. As my own benefactress, as my beloved Rawdon's adored relative, I love and admire Miss Crawley, dear Miss Briggs, beyond any woman in the world, and next to her I love all those who are faithful to her. I would never have treated Miss Crawley's faithful friends as that odious designing Mrs. Bute has done. Rawdon, who was all heart
although his outward manners might seem rough and careless, had said a hundred times, with tears in his eyes, that he blessed Heaven for sending his dearest Aunty two such admirable nurses as her attached Firkin and her admirable Miss Briggs. Should the machinations of the horrible Mrs. Bute end, as she too much feared they would, in banishing everybody that Miss Crawley loved from her side, and leaving that poor lady a victim to those harpies at the Rectory, Rebecca besought her (Miss Briggs) to remember that her own home, humble as it was, was always open to receive Briggs. Dear friend
some hearts can never forget benefits; all women are not Bute Crawleys! Though why should I complain of her
though I have been her tool and the victim to her arts, do I not owe my dearest Rawdon to her
You will now, if you please, my dear, sit down at the writing-table and pen me a pretty little letter to Miss Crawley, in which you'll say that you are a good boy, and that sort of thing
Brighton, Thursday
My dear Aunt
Before quitting the country and commencing a campaign, which very possibly may be fatal
What
Which very possibly may be fatal, I have come hither
Why not say come here, Becky? Come here's grammar
I have come hither
to say farewell to my dearest and earliest friend. I beseech you before I go, not perhaps to return, once more to let me press the hand from which I have received nothing but kindnesses all my life
Kindnesses all my life
I ask nothing from you but that we should part not in anger. I have the pride of my family on some points, though not on all. I married a painter's daughter, and am not ashamed of the union
No, run me through the body if I am
You old booby
beseech is not spelt with an a, and earliest is
I thought that you were aware of the progress of my attachment
I knew that Mrs. Bute Crawley confirmed and encouraged it. But I make no reproaches. I married a poor woman, and am content to abide by what I have done. Leave your property, dear Aunt, as you will. I shall never complain of the way in which you dispose of it. I would have you believe that I love you for yourself, and not for money's sake. I want to be reconciled to you ere I leave England. Let me, let me see you before I go. A few weeks or months hence it may be too late, and I cannot bear the notion of quitting the country without a kind word of farewell from you
She won't recognise my style in that
I made the sentences short and brisk on purpose
We may read it now Mrs. Bute is away
Read it to me, Briggs
Don't you see, you goose
don't you see that Rawdon never wrote a word of it. He never wrote to me without asking for money in his life, and all his letters are full of bad spelling, and dashes, and bad grammar. It is that little serpent of a governess who rules him
I don't mind seeing Rawdon
I had just as soon shake hands with him as not. Provided there is no scene, why shouldn't we meet? I don't mind. But human patience has its limits; and mind, my dear, I respectfully decline to receive Mrs. Rawdon -- I can't support that quite
The old girl has always acted like a trump to me
and I felt, you know, rather queer, and that sort of thing. I walked by the side of the what- dy'e-call-'em, you know, and to her own door, where Bowls came to help her in. And I wanted to go in very much, only
YOU DIDN'T GO IN, Rawdon
No, my dear; I'm hanged if I wasn't afraid when it came to the point
You fool! you ought to have gone in, and never come out again
Don't call me names
Well, dearest, to-morrow you must be on the look-out, and go and see her, mind, whether she asks you or no
Rawdon is getting very fat and old, Briggs
His nose has become red, and he is exceedingly coarse in appearance. His marriage to that woman has hopelessly vulgarised him. Mrs. Bute always said they drank together; and I have no doubt they do. Yes: he smelt of gin abominably. I remarked it. Didn't you
An artful designing woman? Yes, so she is, and she does speak ill of every one -- but I am certain that woman has made Rawdon drink. All those low people do
He was very much affected at seeing you, ma'am
and I am sure, when you remember that he is going to the field of danger
How much money has he promised you, Briggs
there now, of course you begin to cry. I hate scenes. Why am I always to be worried? Go and cry up in your own room, and send Firkin to me -- no, stop, sit down and blow your nose, and leave off crying, and write a letter to Captain Crawley
Begin 'My dear sir,' or 'Dear sir,' that will be better, and say you are desired by Miss Crawley -- no, by Miss Crawley's medical man, by Mr. Creamer, to state that my health is such that all strong emotions would be dangerous in my present delicate condition -- and that I must decline any family discussions or interviews whatever. And thank him for coming to Brighton, and so forth, and beg him not to stay any longer on my account. And, Miss Briggs, you may add that I wish him a bon voyage, and that if he will take the trouble to call upon my lawyer's in Gray's Inn Square, he will find there a communication for him. Yes, that will do; and that will make him leave Brighton
To seize upon me the very day after Mrs. Bute was gone
it was too indecent. Briggs, my dear, write to Mrs. Crawley, and say SHE needn't come back. No -- she needn't -- and she shan't -- and I won't be a slave in my own house -- and I won't be starved and choked with poison. They all want to kill me -- all -- all
I should have liked to see the old girl before we went
She looks so cut up and altered that I'm sure she can't last long. I wonder what sort of a cheque I shall have at Waxy's. Two hundred -- it can't be less than two hundred -- hey, Becky
By Jove, Becky
she's only given me twenty pound
I've always been accustomed to travel like a gentleman
and, damme, my wife shall travel like a lady. As long as there's a shot in the locker, she shall want for nothing
that the Emperor Halixander's sister slep in when the allied sufferings was here
Ar'n't you coming with me, dearest
God bless you
To the health of your master and mistress, Trotter
and here's something to drink your health when you get home, Trotter
Pray, sit down, sir
One of the late Mrs. Osborne's trustees is out of town
but my client wishes to meet your wishes, and have done with the business as quick as possible
Give me a cheque, sir
Damn the shillings and halfpence, sir
That chap will be in gaol in two years
Won't O. come round, sir, don't you think
Won't the monument come round
He's going it pretty fast
He's only married a week, and I saw him and some other military chaps handing Mrs. Highflyer to her carriage after the play
He came in as bold as brass
He has drawn out every shilling. How long will a few hundred pounds last such a chap as that
It's Peggy O'Dowd's fist
I know it by the kisses on the seal
You must go
You will make acquaintance with the regiment there. O'Dowd goes in command of the regiment, and Peggy goes in command
You've often heard of me from that husband of yours
You've often heard of her
that she had
And small good he's told you of me
George was a wicked divvle
That I'll go bail for
This, my dear
is my very good, kind, and excellent friend, Auralia Margaretta, otherwise called Peggy
Faith, you're right
Otherwise called Peggy, lady of Major Michael O'Dowd, of our regiment, and daughter of Fitzjurld Ber'sford de Burgo Malony of Glenmalony, County Kildare
And Muryan Squeer, Doblin
And Muryan Square, sure enough
'Twas there ye coorted me, Meejor dear
My dear
it was my intention that Garge should be a brother of my own, and my sister Glorvina would have suited him entirely. But as bygones are bygones, and he was engaged to yourself, why, I'm determined to take you as a sister instead, and to look upon you as such, and to love you as one of the family. Faith, you've got such a nice good- natured face and way widg you, that I'm sure we'll agree; and that you'll be an addition to our family anyway
Deed and she will
We're all good fellows here
There's not a regiment in the service where you'll find a more united society nor a more agreeable mess-room. There's no quarrelling, bickering, slandthering, nor small talk amongst us. We all love each other
Especially Mrs. Magenis
Mrs. Captain Magenis and me has made up, though her treatment of me would bring me gray hairs with sorrow to the grave
And you with such a beautiful front of black, Peggy, my dear
Hould your tongue, Mick, you booby. Them husbands are always in the way, Mrs. Osborne, my dear; and as for my Mick, I often tell him he should never open his mouth but to give the word of command, or to put meat and drink into it. I'll tell you about the regiment, and warn you when we're alone. Introduce me to your brother now; sure he's a mighty fine man, and reminds me of me cousin, Dan Malony (Malony of Ballymalony, my dear, you know who mar'ied Ophalia Scully, of Oystherstown, own cousin to Lord Poldoody). Mr. Sedley, sir, I'm deloighted to be made known te ye. I suppose you'll dine at the mess to-day. (Mind that divvle of a docther, Mick, and whatever ye du, keep yourself sober for me party this evening
It's the 150th gives us a farewell dinner, my love
but we'll easy get a card for Mr. Sedley
Run Simple (Ensign Simple, of Ours, my dear Amelia. I forgot to introjuice him to ye). Run in a hurry, with Mrs. Major O'Dowd's compliments to Colonel Tavish, and Captain Osborne has brought his brothernlaw down, and will bring him to the150 th mess at five o'clock sharp -- when you and I, my dear, will take a snack here, if you like
Obedience is the soul of the army. We will go to our duty while Mrs. O'Dowd will stay and enlighten you, Emmy
Mrs. Heavytop, the Colonel's wife, died in Jamaica of the yellow faver and a broken heart comboined, for the horrud old Colonel, with a head as bald as a cannon-ball, was making sheep's eyes at a half- caste girl there. Mrs. Magenis, though without education, was a good woman, but she had the divvle's tongue, and would cheat her own mother at whist. Mrs. Captain Kirk must turn up her lobster eyes forsooth at the idea of an honest round game (wherein me fawther, as pious a man as ever went to church, me uncle Dane Malony, and our cousin the Bishop, took a hand at loo, or whist, every night of their lives). Nayther of 'em's goin' with the regiment this time
Fanny Magenis stops with her mother, who sells small coal and potatoes, most likely, in Islington-town, hard by London, though she's always bragging of her father's ships, and pointing them out to us as they go up the river: and Mrs. Kirk and her children will stop here in Bethesda Place, to be nigh to her favourite preacher, Dr. Ramshorn. Mrs. Bunny's in an interesting situation -- faith, and she always is, then -- and has given the Lieutenant seven already. And Ensign Posky's wife, who joined two months before you, my dear, has quarl'd with Tom Posky a score of times, till you can hear'm all over the bar'ck (they say they're come to broken pleets, and Tom never accounted for his black oi), and she'll go back to her mother, who keeps a ladies' siminary at Richmond -- bad luck to her for running away from it! Where did ye get your finishing, my dear? I had moin, and no expince spared, at Madame Flanahan's, at Ilyssus Grove, Booterstown, near Dublin, wid a Marchioness to teach us the true Parisian pronunciation, and a retired Mejor-General of the French service to put us through the exercise
I hope Osborne has sown his wild oats
If a reformed rake makes a good husband, sure it's she will have the fine chance with Garge
Howling Wilderness
Washerwoman of Wandsworth Common
British Soldier's best Bayonet
I will make all his friends welcome
I will love all as I love him. I will always try and be gay and good-humoured and make his home happy
Jove, isn't she a pretty gal
God Save the King
My lord
Pas si bete
Boney attack us
My dear creature, my poor Emmy, don't be frightened. There's no danger. The allies will be in Paris in two months, I tell you; when I'll take you to dine in the Palais Royal, by Jove! There are three hundred thousand Rooshians, I tell you, now entering France by Mayence and the Rhine -- three hundred thousand under Wittgenstein and Barclay de Tolly, my poor love. You don't know military affairs, my dear. I do, and I tell you there's no infantry in France can stand against Rooshian infantry, and no general of Boney's that's fit to hold a candle to Wittgenstein. Then there are the Austrians, they are five hundred thousand if a man, and they are within ten marches of the frontier by this time, under Schwartzenberg and Prince Charles. Then there are the Prooshians under the gallant Prince Marshal. Show me a cavalry chief like him now that Murat is gone. Hey, Mrs. O'Dowd? Do you think our little girl here need be afraid? Is there any cause for fear, Isidor? Hey, sir? Get some more beer
Glorvina was not afraid of any man alive, let alone a Frenchman
Talk about kenal boats; my dear! Ye should see the kenal boats between Dublin and Ballinasloe. It's there the rapid travelling is; and the beautiful cattle. Sure me fawther got a goold medal (and his Excellency himself eat a slice of it, and said never was finer mate in his loif) for a four-year-old heifer, the like of which ye never saw in this country any day
that for good streaky beef, really mingled with fat and lean, there was no country like England
Except Ireland, where all your best mate comes from
I'll thank ye tell me what they mean by that old gazabo on the top of the market-place
I hope there will be no women besides our own party
Gracious Heaven, Mamma -- you don't suppose the man would bring his wife
The men are bearable, but their women
Wife, just married, dev'lish pretty woman, I hear
Well, my dear Blanche
I suppose, as Papa wants to go, we must go; but we needn't know them in England, you know
You should see the flowers at Glenmalony
Me fawther has three Scotch garners with nine helpers. We have an acre of hot-houses, and pines as common as pays in the sayson. Our greeps weighs six pounds every bunch of 'em, and upon me honour and conscience I think our magnolias is as big as taykettles
Hwhat's that gawky guggling about
Is it his nose bleedn? He always used to say 'twas his nose bleedn, till he must have pomped all the blood out of 'um. An't the magnolias at Glenmalony as big as taykettles, O'Dowd
Deed then they are, and bigger, Peggy
Devlish fine horse -- who is it
You should see me brother Molloy Malony's horse, Molasses, that won the cop at the Curragh
he and I were both shot in the same leg at Talavera
Where you got your step
General Tufto! Then, my dear, the Crawleys are come
Sure it's the Juke himself
and that's Lord Uxbridge on the bay. How elegant he looks! Me brother, Molloy Malony, is as like him as two pays
who the fat officer was in the gold-laced cap
that he was an officer in the East Indian service
Well, old boy, how are you
Sorry I hadn't seen you three days ago
Had a dinner at the Restaurateur's -- rather a nice thing. Lord Bareacres, and the Countess, and Lady Blanche, were good enough to dine with us -- wish we'd had you
How well the Juke looked
The Wellesleys and Malonys are related; but, of course, poor I would never dream of introjuicing myself unless his Grace thought proper to remember our family-tie
He's a great soldier
Was there ever a battle won like Salamanca? Hey, Dobbin? But where was it he learnt his art? In India, my boy! The jungle's the school for a general, mark me that. I knew him myself, too, Mrs. O'Dowd: we both of us danced the same evening with Miss Cutler, daughter of Cutler of the Artillery, and a devilish fine girl, at Dumdum
She's been useful to you, my dear
But what a comfort it is that Rebecca's come: you will have her for a friend, and we may get rid now of this damn'd Irishwoman
Who is that wonderful woman with Amelia, Rawdon, love
Don't you see that creature with a yellow thing in her turban, and a red satin gown, and a great watch
Near the pretty little woman in white
That pretty woman in white is Amelia, General: you are remarking all the pretty women, you naughty man
Only one, begad, in the world
Bedad it's him
and that's the very bokay he bought in the Marshy aux Flures
All right, my boy
Happy to give you your revenge. Governor come round
Not yet
but he will; and you know I've some private fortune through my mother. Has Aunty relented
I will go in and pay my respects to your wife
Hm, as you please
Entrez
My dear Captain George
How good of you to come. The General and I were moping together tete-a- tete. General, this is my Captain George of whom you heard me talk
Indeed
of what regiment is Captain George
Come home lately from the West Indies, I believe. Not seen much service in the late war. Quartered here, Captain George
Not Captain George, you stupid man; Captain Osborne
Captain Osborne, indeed! Any relation to the L ------ Osbornes
We bear the same arms
How is dearest Amelia? But I needn't ask: how pretty she looks! And who is that nice good-natured looking creature with her -- a flame of yours? O, you wicked men! And there is Mr. Sedley eating ice, I declare: how he seems to enjoy it! General, why have we not had any ices
Shall I go and fetch you some
Let ME go, I entreat you
Don't you see the state of affairs, and what a fool I'm making of him
What a humbug that woman is
She writhes and twists about like a snake. All the time she was here, didn't you see, George, how she was acting at the General over the way
Humbug -- acting! Hang it, she's the nicest little woman in England
You ain't a man of the world, Dobbin. Dammy, look at her now, she's talked over Tufto in no time. Look how he's laughing! Gad, what a shoulder she has! Emmy, why didn't you have a bouquet? Everybody has a bouquet
Faith, then, why didn't you BOY one
When do you intend to give up play, George, as you have promised me, any time these hundred years
When do you intend to give up sermonising
What the deuce, man, are you alarmed about? We play low; I won last night. You don't suppose Crawley cheats? With fair play it comes to pretty much the same thing at the year's end
But I don't think he could pay if he lost
I think Emmy has become prouder since her father's name was in the -- since Mr. Sedley's MISFORTUNES
Upon my word, I thought when we were at Brighton she was doing me the honour to be jealous of me; and now I suppose she is scandalised because Rawdon, and I, and the General live together. Why, my dear creature, how could we, with our means, live at all, but for a friend to share expenses? And do you suppose that Rawdon is not big enough to take care of my honour? But I'm very much obliged to Emmy, very
Pooh, jealousy
all women are jealous
And all men too. Weren't you jealous of General Tufto, and the General of you, on the night of the Opera? Why, he was ready to eat me for going with you to visit that foolish little wife of yours; as if I care a pin for either of you
Will you dine here? The dragon dines with the Commander-in-Chief. Great news is stirring. They say the French have crossed the frontier. We shall have a quiet dinner
For God's sake, stop him from gambling, my dear
or he will ruin himself. He and Rawdon are playing at cards every night, and you know he is very poor, and Rawdon will win every shilling from him if he does not take care. Why don't you prevent him, you little careless creature? Why don't you come to us of an evening, instead of moping at home with that Captain Dobbin? I dare say he is tres aimable; but how could one love a man with feet of such size? Your husband's feet are darlings -- Here he comes. Where have you been, wretch? Here is Emmy crying her eyes out for you. Are you coming to fetch me for the quadrille
It is curious, when a man is bent upon play, by what clumsy rogues he will allow himself to be cheated
Indeed
William
you've always been very kind to me -- I'm -- I'm not well. Take me home
Everything succeeds with me to-night
Come out, George
don't drink
Drink! there's nothing like it. Drink yourself, and light up your lantern jaws, old boy. Here's to you
The enemy has passed the Sambre
and our left is already engaged. Come away. We are to march in three hours
I am awake, George
It's my belief, Peggy, my dear
I'd like ye wake me about half an hour before the assembly beats
Call me at half-past one, Peggy dear, and see me things is ready. May be I'll not come back to breakfast, Mrs. O'D
Time enough for that
The Girl I Left Behind Me
Hang it
before I was married I didn't care what bills I put my name to, and so long as Moses would wait or Levy would renew for three months, I kept on never minding. But since I'm married, except renewing, of course, I give you my honour I've not touched a bit of stamped paper
Why, my stupid love
we have not done with your aunt yet. If she fails us, isn't there what you call the Gazette? or, stop, when your uncle Bute's life drops, I have another scheme. The living has always belonged to the younger brother, and why shouldn't you sell out and go into the Church
You don't suppose I'm afraid, Becky, I should think
But I'm a pretty good mark for a shot, and you see if it brings me down, why I leave one and perhaps two behind me whom I should wish to provide for, as I brought 'em into the scrape. It is no laughing matter that, Mrs. C., anyways
Dearest love
do you suppose I feel nothing
Look here
If I drop, let us see what there is for you. I have had a pretty good run of luck here, and here's two hundred and thirty pounds. I have got ten Napoleons in my pocket. That is as much as I shall want; for the General pays everything like a prince; and if I'm hit, why you know I cost nothing. Don't cry, little woman; I may live to vex you yet. Well, I shan't take either of my horses, but shall ride the General's grey charger: it's cheaper, and I told him mine was lame. If I'm done, those two ought to fetch you something. Grigg offered ninety for the mare yesterday, before this confounded news came, and like a fool I wouldn't let her go under the two o's. Bullfinch will fetch his price any day, only you'd better sell him in this country, because the dealers have so many bills of mine, and so I'd rather he shouldn't go back to England. Your little mare the General gave you will fetch something, and there's no d -- d livery stable bills here as there are in London
There's that dressing-case cost me two hundred -- that is, I owe two for it; and the gold tops and bottles must be worth thirty or forty. Please to put THAT up the spout, ma'am, with my pins, and rings, and watch and chain, and things. They cost a precious lot of money. Miss Crawley, I know, paid a hundred down for the chain and ticker. Gold tops and bottles, indeed! dammy, I'm sorry I didn't take more now. Edwards pressed on me a silver-gilt boot-jack, and I might have had a dressing-case fitted up with a silver warming-pan, and a service of plate. But we must make the best of what we've got, Becky, you know
My double-barril by Manton, say 40 guineas; my driving cloak, lined with sable fur, 50 pounds; my duelling pistols in rosewood case (same which I shot Captain Marker), 20 pounds; my regulation saddle-holsters and housings; my Laurie ditto
What a fright I seem
and how pale this pink makes one look
tickers
I will go and get the draft cashed
and pay a visit afterwards to poor little Emmy
Very kind of you
I -- I didn't like to go off without saying good-bye, you know
because you know some of us mayn't come back again, and I like to see you all well, and -- and that sort of thing, you know
What do you mean
What is it I can do for you, Dobbin
I tell you what you can do
we march in a quarter of an hour, Sedley, and neither George nor I may ever come back. Mind you, you are not to stir from this town until you ascertain how things go. You are to stay here and watch over your sister, and comfort her, and see that no harm comes to her. If anything happens to George, remember she has no one but you in the world to look to. If it goes wrong with the army, you'll see her safe back to England; and you will promise me on your word that you will never desert her. I know you won't: as far as money goes, you were always free enough with that. Do you want any? I mean, have you enough gold to take you back to England in case of a misfortune
Sir
when I want money, I know where to ask for it. And as for my sister, you needn't tell me how I ought to behave to her
You speak like a man of spirit, Jos
and I am glad that George can leave her in such good hands. So I may give him your word of honour, may I, that in case of extremity you will stand by her
Of course, of course
And you'll see her safe out of Brussels in the event of a defeat
A defeat! D --- it, sir, it's impossible. Don't try and frighten ME
At least
there will be a retreat secured for her in case the worst should ensue
Good God
and is it grief like this I dared to pry into
Thank Heaven that is over
I'm an honest man
and if I have a feeling I show it, as an honest man will. How the deuce, my dear, would you have me behave respectfully to such a fool as your brother
HE won't be troubling me this morning
with his dandified airs and his impudence
Put the Captain's hat into the ante-room
Perhaps he won't want it again
And ask if Madame is coming to breakfast
How those sleeve-buttons will suit me
I long for sleeve-buttons; and the Captain's boots with brass spurs, in the next room, corbleu! what an effect they will make in the Allee Verte
Soup to-morrow
Soldiers
this is the anniversary of Marengo and Friedland, by which the destinies of Europe were twice decided. Then, as after Austerlitz, as after Wagram, we were too generous. We believed in the oaths and promises of princes whom we suffered to remain upon their thrones. Let us march once more to meet them. We and they, are we not still the same men? Soldiers! these same Prussians who are so arrogant to-day, were three to one against you at Jena, and six to one at Montmirail. Those among you who were prisoners in England can tell their comrades what frightful torments they suffered on board the English hulks. Madmen! a moment of prosperity has blinded them, and if they enter into France it will be to find a grave there
Crushed, psha
The Duke has gone to beat the Emperor as he has beaten all his generals before
His papers are burned, his effects are removed, and his quarters are being got ready for the Duke of Dalmatia
I had it from his own maitre d'hotel. Milor Duc de Richemont's people are packing up everything. His Grace has fled already, and the Duchess is only waiting to see the plate packed to join the King of France at Ostend
The King of France is at Ghent, fellow
He fled last night to Bruges, and embarks today from Ostend. The Duc de Berri is taken prisoner. Those who wish to be safe had better go soon, for the dykes will be opened to-morrow, and who can fly when the whole country is under water
Nonsense, sir, we are three to one, sir, against any force Boney can bring into the field
the Austrians and the Russians are on their march. He must, he shall be crushed
The Prussians were three to one at Jena, and he took their army and kingdom in a week. They were six to one at Montmirail, and he scattered them like sheep. The Austrian army is coming, but with the Empress and the King of Rome at its head; and the Russians, bah! the Russians will withdraw. No quarter is to be given to the English, on account of their cruelty to our braves on board the infamous pontoons. Look here, here it is in black and white. Here's the proclamation of his Majesty the Emperor and King
and follow me. I will go myself and learn the truth of these reports
Milor had better not wear that military coat
the Frenchmen have sworn not to give quarter to a single British soldier
Silence, sirrah
Are you preparing to join the army, Mr. Joseph
Is there to be nobody left in Brussels to protect us poor women
How was she after the events of the morning -- after the fatigues of the ball the night before
How good of you to ask
How cool and collected you look when everybody else is frightened! How is our dear little Emmy? It must have been an awful, awful parting
Tremendous
You men can bear anything
Parting or danger are nothing to you. Own now that you were going to join the army and leave us to our fate. I know you were -- something tells me you were. I was so frightened, when the thought came into my head (for I do sometimes think of you when I am alone, Mr. Joseph), that I ran off immediately to beg and entreat you not to fly from us
My dear sir, should an accident befall the army, and a retreat be necessary, you have a very comfortable carriage, in which I propose to take a seat
Ah
now she wants me she comes to me. When there is nobody else in the way she can think about old Joseph Sedley
I should like to see the action
Every man of any spirit would, you know. I've seen a little service in India, but nothing on this grand scale
You men would sacrifice anything for a pleasure
Captain Crawley left me this morning as gay as if he were going to a hunting party. What does he care? What do any of you care for the agonies and tortures of a poor forsaken woman? (I wonder whether he could really have been going to the troops, this great lazy gourmand?) Oh! dear Mr. Sedley, I have come to you for comfort -- for consolation. I have been on my knees all the morning. I tremble at the frightful danger into which our husbands, our friends, our brave troops and allies, are rushing. And I come here for shelter, and find another of my friends -- the last remaining to me -- bent upon plunging into the dreadful scene
My dear madam
don't be alarmed. I only said I should like to go -- what Briton would not? But my duty keeps me here: I can't leave that poor creature in the next room
Good noble brother
I have done you injustice: you have got a heart. I thought you had not
O, upon my honour
You do me injustice, indeed you do -- my dear Mrs. Crawley
I do, now your heart is true to your sister. But I remember two years ago -- when it was false to me
I know you think me ungrateful
Your coldness, your averted looks, your manner when we have met of late -- when I came in just now, all proved it to me. But were there no reasons why I should avoid you? Let your own heart answer that question. Do you think my husband was too much inclined to welcome you? The only unkind words I have ever had from him (I will do Captain Crawley that justice) have been about you -- and most cruel, cruel words they were
Good gracious! what have I done
what have I done -- to -- to
Is jealousy nothing
He makes me miserable about you. And whatever it might have been once -- my heart is all his. I am innocent now. Am I not, Mr. Sedley
If the worst comes to the worst
my retreat is secure; and I have a right-hand seat in the barouche
Au revoir
That coat is very tight for Milor
Dearest Amelia, you are very unwell
What is it? I could not rest until I knew how you were
Why are you here, Rebecca
She must have seen him give me the letter at the ball
Don't be agitated, dear Amelia
I came but to see if I could -- if you were well
Are you well
I dare say you are. You don't love your husband. You would not be here if you did. Tell me, Rebecca, did I ever do you anything but kindness
Indeed, Amelia, no
When you were quite poor, who was it that befriended you? Was I not a sister to you? You saw us all in happier days before he married me. I was all in all then to him; or would he have given up his fortune, his family, as he nobly did to make me happy? Why did you come between my love and me? Who sent you to separate those whom God joined, and take my darling's heart from me -- my own husband? Do you think you could I love him as I did? His love was everything to me. You knew it, and wanted to rob me of it. For shame, Rebecca; bad and wicked woman -- false friend and false wife
Amelia, I protest before God, I have done my husband no wrong
Have you done me no wrong, Rebecca? You did not succeed, but you tried. Ask your heart if you did not
He came back to me. I knew he would. I knew that no falsehood, no flattery, could keep him from me long. I knew he would come. I prayed so that he should
But what have I done to you
that you should try and take him from me? I had him but for six weeks. You might have spared me those, Rebecca. And yet, from the very first day of our wedding, you came and blighted it. Now he is gone, are you come to see how unhappy I am
You made me wretched enough for the past fortnight: you might have spared me to-day
I -- I never came here
No. You didn't come. You took him away. Are you come to fetch him from me
He was here, but he is gone now. There on that very sofa he sate. Don't touch it. We sate and talked there. I was on his knee, and my arms were round his neck, and we said 'Our Father.' Yes, he was here: and they came and took him away, but he promised me to come back
He will come back, my dear
Look
this is his sash -- isn't it a pretty colour
How is Amelia
There should be somebody with her
I've cares of my own enough
My service to ye, me fine Madam, and I'm glad to see ye so cheerful
It's not YOU that will cry your eyes out with grief, anyway
You must bear up, Amelia, dear
for he mustn't find you ill when he sends for you after the victory. It's not you are the only woman that are in the hands of God this day
I know that. I am very wicked, very weak
Try
the soup is very good. Do try, Emmy
You are very good and kind, Joseph
Everybody is, but, if you please, I will stay in my room to-day
God bless the meat
'Tis but a bad dinner those poor boys will get to-day
We'll drink to O'Dowd and the brave -- th
Hey, Mrs. O'Dowd? Fill Mrs. O'Dowd's glass, Isidor
What is it
Why don't you pour, you rascal
Cest le feu
God defend us; it's cannon
He has cut the armies in two
He is marching straight on Brussels. He will overpower the English, and be here to-night
He will overpower the English
and will be here to-night
I never let go her hand once
until after sunset, when the firing was over
Mrs. O'Dowd
hadn't you better get Amelia ready
Are you going to take her out for a walk
sure she's too weak to stir
I -- I've ordered the carriage
and -- and post-horses; Isidor is gone for them
What do you want with driving to-night
Isn't she better on her bed? I've just got her to lie down
Get her up
I say the horses are ordered -- yes, the horses are ordered. It's all over, and
And what
I'm off for Ghent
Everybody is going; there's a place for you! We shall start in half-an-hour
I don't move till O'Dowd gives me the route
You may go if you like, Mr. Sedley; but, faith, Amelia and I stop here
She SHALL go
Is it her mother you're going to take her to
or do you want to go to Mamma yourself, Mr. Sedley? Good marning -- a pleasant journey to ye, sir. Bon voyage, as they say, and take my counsel, and shave off them mustachios, or they'll bring you into mischief
D -- n
Pas de chevaux, sacre bleu
It is all over
Milor Duke is a prisoner; the Duke of Brunswick is killed; the British army is in full flight; there is only one man escaped, and he is in the kitchen now -- come and hear him
And the -- th
Cut in pieces
O my mistress, ma bonne petite dame
Coupez-moi, Isidor
vite! Coupez-moi
Les moustaches
les moustaches -- coupy, rasy, vite
Ne porty ploo -- habit militair -- bonn -- bonny a voo, prenny dehors
Venny maintenong
sweevy -- ally -- party -- dong la roo
Send a lady's maid to ME
why didn't my Lady Bareacres tell me to go and saddle the horses! Is it her Ladyship that wants to escape, or her Ladyship's femme de chambre
I don't want to be waited on by bailiffs in livery
you will never get back though most probably -- at least not you and your diamonds together. The French will have those They will be here in two hours, and I shall be half way to Ghent by that time. I would not sell you my horses, no, not for the two largest diamonds that your Ladyship wore at the ball
Woman, the diamonds are at the banker's, and I WILL have the horses
Not to be able to get horses
and to have all those diamonds sewed into the carriage cushions! What a prize it will be for the French when they come!-- the carriage and the diamonds, I mean; not the lady
HE shall buy my horses
and I'll ride the mare
Did she know where horses were to be had
What, YOU fly
I thought you were the champion of all the ladies, Mr. Sedley
I -- I'm not a military man
And Amelia?-- Who is to protect that poor little sister of yours
You surely would not desert her
What good can I do her, suppose -- suppose the enemy arrive
They'll spare the women; but my man tells me that they have taken an oath to give no quarter to the men -- the dastardly cowards
Horrid
Besides, I don't want to desert her
She SHAN'T be deserted. There is a seat for her in my carriage, and one for you, dear Mrs. Crawley, if you will come; and if we can get horses
I have two to sell
Get the carriage, Isidor
we've found them -- we have found them
Bullfinch would kick the carriage to pieces, if you put him in the traces
But he is quiet to ride
As quiet as a lamb, and as fast as a hare
Do you think he is up to my weight
She would sell both or neither
Suppose the French do come
what can they do to a poor officer's widow? Bah! the times of sacks and sieges are over. We shall be let to go home quietly, or I may live pleasantly abroad with a snug little income
Stop! stop
It is George, I know it is
Mr. Sedley, Mr. Sedley
I'm to be taken in here
Osborne -- and -- and Dobbin said I was; and you are to give the man two napoleons: my mother will pay you
Indeed, but he has a good heart that William Dobbin
though he is always laughing at me
Poor wretch
how I could crush her with this!-- and it is for a thing like this that she must break her heart, forsooth -- for a man who is stupid -- a coxcomb -- and who does not care for her. My poor good Rawdon is worth ten of this creature
I can't stand it any more, Emmy
God forgive me, Mr. Sedley, but you are no better than a coward
I say come, Amelia
never mind what she says; why are we to stop here and be butchered by the Frenchmen
You forget the -- th, my boy
and and you won't leave me, will you, Mrs. O'Dowd
No, my dear fellow
No harm shall come to you while I stand by. I don't budge till I get the word from Mick. A pretty figure I'd be, wouldn't I, stuck behind that chap on a pillion
I don't ask her
I don't ask that -- that Irishwoman, but you Amelia; once for all, will you come
Without my husband, Joseph
Good-bye, then
Look at him, Amelia dear, driving into the parlour window. Such a bull in a china-shop I never saw
What a pity that young man has taken such an irretrievable step in the world
with his rank and distinction he might have married a brewer's daughter with a quarter of a million -- like Miss Grains; or have looked to ally himself with the best families in England. He would have had my money some day or other; or his children would -- for I'm not in a hurry to go, Miss Briggs, although you may be in a hurry to be rid of me; and instead of that, he is a doomed pauper, with a dancing-girl for a wife
Will my dear Miss Crawley not cast an eye of compassion upon the heroic soldier, whose name is inscribed in the annals of his country's glory
Has not the Captain -- or the Colonel as I may now style him -- done deeds which make the name of Crawley illustrious
Briggs, you are a fool
Colonel Crawley has dragged the name of Crawley through the mud, Miss Briggs. Marry a drawing-master's daughter, indeed!-- marry a dame de compagnie -- for she was no better, Briggs; no, she was just what you are -- only younger, and a great deal prettier and cleverer. Were you an accomplice of that abandoned wretch, I wonder, of whose vile arts he became a victim, and of whom you used to be such an admirer? Yes, I daresay you were an accomplice. But you will find yourself disappointed in my will, I can tell you: and you will have the goodness to write to Mr. Waxy, and say that I desire to see him immediately
the Guard died, but never surrendered
Of course, I know
that Rawdon could not write such a good letter any more than you could, my poor Briggs, and that it is that clever little wretch of a Rebecca, who dictates every word to him; but that is no reason why my nephew should not amuse me; and so I wish to let him understand that I am in high good humour
How silly I was
ever to hint that I was coming, as I did, in that foolish letter when we sent Miss Crawley the guinea-fowls. I ought to have gone without a word to the poor dear doting old creature, and taken her out of the hands of that ninny Briggs, and that harpy of a femme de chambre. Oh! Bute, Bute, why did you break your collar-bone
That is the son of the old reprobate Sir Pitt, who is very likely drinking at the public house at this very moment
How many is there at Queen's Crawley, Young Squaretoes
Lady Jane, permit me to introduce to you my aunt's kindest friend and most affectionate companion, Miss Briggs, whom you know under another title, as authoress of the delightful 'Lyrics of the Heart,' of which you are so fond
Washerwoman of Finchley Common
I will certainly call
Who is Miss Crawley's medical man
A most dangerous and ignorant practitioner, my dear Pitt. I have providentially been the means of removing him from several houses: though in one or two instances I did not arrive in time. I could not save poor dear General Glanders, who was dying under the hands of that ignorant man -- dying. He rallied a little under the Podgers' pills which I administered to him; but alas! it was too late. His death was delightful, however; and his change was only for the better; Creamer, my dear Pitt, must leave your aunt
Dear Madam, I took Podgers' specific at your orders last year, and believe in it. Why, why am I to recant and accept the Rodgers' articles now
Well, well, Rodgers' be it
And as for her spiritual state
that of course must be looked to immediately: with Creamer about her, she may go off any day: and in what a condition, my dear Pitt, in what a dreadful condition! I will send the Reverend Mr. Irons to her instantly. Jane, write a line to the Reverend Bartholomew Irons, in the third person, and say that I desire the pleasure of his company this evening at tea at half-past six. He is an awakening man; he ought to see Miss Crawley before she rests this night. And Emily, my love, get ready a packet of books for Miss Crawley. Put up 'A Voice from the Flames,' 'A Trumpet-warning to Jericho,' and the 'Fleshpots Broken; or, the Converted Cannibal
And the 'Washerwoman of Finchley Common,' Mamma
It is as well to begin soothingly at first
Stop, my dear ladies
With every deference to the opinion of my beloved and respected Lady Southdown, I think it would be quite unadvisable to commence so early upon serious topics with Miss Crawley. Remember her delicate condition, and how little, how very little accustomed she has hitherto been to considerations connected with her immortal welfare
Can we then begin too early, Pitt
If you begin abruptly, you will frighten her altogether. I know my aunt's worldly nature so well as to be sure that any abrupt attempt at conversion will be the very worst means that can be employed for the welfare of that unfortunate lady. You will only frighten and annoy her. She will very likely fling the books away, and refuse all acquaintance with the givers
You are as worldly as Miss Crawley, Pitt
And I need not tell you, my dear Lady Southdown
Of course, of course
Jane, my love, you need not send that note to Mr. Irons. If her health is such that discussions fatigue her, we will wait her amendment. I will call upon Miss Crawley tomorrow
And if I might suggest, my sweet lady
it would be as well not to take our precious Emily, who is too enthusiastic; but rather that you should be accompanied by our sweet and dear Lady Jane
Most certainly, Emily would ruin everything
Washerwoman
Crumbs from the Pantry
The Livery of Sin
What could Lady Southdown mean by leaving a card upon you, I wonder, Miss Briggs
that she hoped there could be no harm in a lady of rank taking notice of a poor gentlewoman
And what do you think, my dear
that she did not understand politics, which she left to wiser heads than hers; but though Mamma was, no doubt, correct, Mr. Crawley had spoken beautifully
Lady Southdown would be so kind as to send her Lady Jane sometimes, if she could be spared to come down and console a poor sick lonely old woman
Don't let Lady Southdown come again, Pitt
She is stupid and pompous, like all your mother's family, whom I never could endure. But bring that nice good-natured little Jane as often as ever you please
I wish, my love, I could get somebody to play piquet with me
and I think I should sleep better if I had my game
Miss Crawley, I can play a little. I used to -- to play a little with poor dear papa
Come and kiss me. Come and kiss me this instant, you dear good little soul
It was all Bute's collar- bone
if that had not broke, I never would have left her. I am a martyr to duty and to your odious unclerical habit of hunting, Bute
Hunting; nonsense! It was you that frightened her, Barbara
You're a clever woman, but you've got a devil of a temper; and you're a screw with your money, Barbara
You'd have been screwed in gaol, Bute, if I had not kept your money
I know I would, my dear
What the deuce can she find in that spooney of a Pitt Crawley
I say, Barbara
What
Jim might go down and see her, certainly
If we could but get one of the girls into the house; but she could never endure them, because they are not pretty
Jack, my boy, go out and see if the evening holds up
he had come down for a couple of days to see a man of his college, and -- and to pay my respects to you, Ma'am, and my father's and mother's, who hope you are well
and hark ye, Bowls
you will have the goodness to pay Mr. James's bill
I beg your pardon, sir
what 'otel, sir, shall Thomas fetch the luggage from
O, dam
I'll go
What
The Tom Cribb's Arms
I -- I didn't know any better
I've never been here before; it was the coachman told me
I -- I'd best go and settle the score
Couldn't think of asking you, Ma'am
Go and settle the bill, Bowls
and bring it to me
There -- there's a little dawg
I'd best go for him. He bites footmen's calves
Haw, haw
Senior Wrangler, indeed; that's at the other shop
What is the other shop, my dear child
Senior Wranglers at Cambridge, not Oxford
Reglarly up a tree, by jingo
The chief pleasure which my aunt has
is that people should do as they like in her house. This is Liberty Hall, James, and you can't do Miss Crawley a greater kindness than to do as you please, and ask for what you will. I know you have all sneered at me in the country for being a Tory. Miss Crawley is liberal enough to suit any fancy. She is a Republican in principle, and despises everything like rank or title
Why are you going to marry an Earl's daughter
My dear friend, remember it is not poor Lady Jane's fault that she is well born
She cannot help being a lady. Besides, I am a Tory, you know
Oh, as for that
there's nothing like old blood; no, dammy, nothing like it. I'm none of your radicals. I know what it is to be a gentleman, dammy. See the chaps in a boat-race; look at the fellers in a fight; aye, look at a dawg killing rats -- which is it wins? the good-blooded ones. Get some more port, Bowls, old boy, whilst I buzz this bottle-here. What was I asaying
I think you were speaking of dogs killing rats
buzz
Killing rats was I? Well, Pitt, are you a sporting man? Do you want to see a dawg as CAN kill a rat? If you do, come down with me to Tom Corduroy's, in Castle Street Mews, and I'll show you such a bull- terrier as -- Pooh! gammon
YOU don't care about a dawg or rat; it's all nonsense. I'm blest if I think you know the difference between a dog and a duck
No; by the way
it was about blood you were talking, and the personal advantages which people derive from patrician birth. Here's the fresh bottle
Blood's the word
Nothing like blood, sir, in hosses, dawgs, AND men. Why, only last term, just before I was rusticated, that is, I mean just before I had the measles, ha, ha -- there was me and Ringwood of Christchurch, Bob Ringwood, Lord Cinqbars' son, having our beer at the Bell at Blenheim, when the Banbury bargeman offered to fight either of us for a bowl of punch. I couldn't. My arm was in a sling; couldn't even take the drag down -- a brute of a mare of mine had fell with me only two days before, out with the Abingdon, and I thought my arm was broke. Well, sir, I couldn't finish him, but Bob had his coat off at once -- he stood up to the Banbury man for three minutes, and polished him off in four rounds easy. Gad, how he did drop, sir, and what was it? Blood, sir, all blood
You don't drink, James
In my time at Oxford, the men passed round the bottle a little quicker than you young fellows seem to do
Come, come
no jokes, old boy; no trying it on on me. You want to trot me out, but it's no go. In vino veritas, old boy. Mars, Bacchus, Apollo virorum, hey? I wish my aunt would send down some of this to the governor; it's a precious good tap
You had better ask her
or make the best of your time now. What says the bard? 'Nunc vino pellite curas, Cras ingens iterabimus aequor
He seems a very silent, awkward, bashful lad
He is more communicative in men's society than with ladies
And that's a fair offer, my buck
and my father told me to make it too, and he'll go halves in the bet, ha, ha
Mr. James
For Gawd's sake, sir, stop that 'ere pipe
O, Mr. James, what 'AVE you done
What 'ave you done, sir! Missis can't abide 'em
Missis needn't smoke
Dear sir
Miss Crawley has passed an exceedingly disturbed night, owing to the shocking manner in which the house has been polluted by tobacco; Miss Crawley bids me say she regrets that she is too unwell to see you before you go -- and above all that she ever induced you to remove from the ale-house, where she is sure you will be much more comfortable during the rest of your stay at Brighton
my pistols, the same which I shot Captain Marker
Why
Why does not our dear Miss come to her nephew and niece, and her attached friends in Paris? All the world raffoles of the charming Mistress and her espiegle beauty. Yes, we see in her the grace, the charm, the wit of our dear friend Miss Crawley! The King took notice of her yesterday at the Tuileries, and we are all jealous of the attention which Monsieur pays her. If you could have seen the spite of a certain stupid Miladi Bareacres (whose eagle-beak and toque and feathers may be seen peering over the heads of all assemblies) when Madame, the Duchess of Angouleme, the august daughter and companion of kings, desired especially to be presented to Mrs. Crawley, as your dear daughter and protegee, and thanked her in the name of France, for all your benevolence towards our unfortunates during their exile! She is of all the societies, of all the balls -- of the balls -- yes -- of the dances, no; and yet how interesting and pretty this fair creature looks surrounded by the homage of the men, and so soon to be a mother! To hear her speak of you, her protectress, her mother, would bring tears to the eyes of ogres. How she loves you! how we all love our admirable, our respectable Miss Crawley
On the 26th of March -- the Lady of Lieutenant-Colonel Crawley, of the Life Guards Green -- of a son and heir
My son, Major Dobbin
despatched me a letter by an officer of the -- th, who arrived in town to-day. My son's letter contains one for you, Osborne
Sacred to the memory of George Osborne, Junior, Esq., late a Captain in his Majesty's -- th regiment of foot, who fell on the 18th of June, 1815, aged 28 years, while fighting for his king and country in the glorious victory of Waterloo. Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori
Will he forgive Mrs. George
Were you in Captain Osborne's company
he was my son, sir
The whole army didn't contain a finer or a better officer
The Sergeant of the Captain's company (Captain Raymond had it now), was in town, though, and was just well of a shot in the shoulder. His honour might see him if he liked, who could tell him anything he wanted to know about -- about the -- th's actions. But his honour had seen Major Dobbin, no doubt, the brave Captain's great friend; and Mrs. Osborne, who was here too, and had been very bad, he heard everybody say. They say she was out of her mind like for six weeks or more. But your honour knows all about that -- and asking your pardon
It was Major Dobbin who took back the Captain's body to Brussels
and had him buried, as your honour knows
How dare you look at me? Damn you! I do hate her. It is she who has tumbled my hopes and all my pride down
Tell the scoundrel to drive on quick
Mr. Osborne, Mr. Osborne
I will see you, sir
I have a message for you
From that woman
No
Pray, have you any commands for me, Captain Dobbin, or, I beg your pardon, I should say MAJOR Dobbin, since better men than you are dead, and you step into their SHOES
Better men ARE dead
I want to speak to you about one
Make it short, sir
I am here as his closest friend
and the executor of his will. He made it before he went into action. Are you aware how small his means are, and of the straitened circumstances of his widow
I don't know his widow, sir
Let her go back to her father
Do you know, sir, Mrs. Osborne's condition? Her life and her reason almost have been shaken by the blow which has fallen on her. It is very doubtful whether she will rally. There is a chance left for her, however, and it is about this I came to speak to you. She will be a mother soon. Will you visit the parent's offence upon the child's head? or will you forgive the child for poor George's sake
And that's what you may tell her
and that's what I will stick to to the last day of my life
I might tell her, and she would not heed it
Hush
Go downstairs, little Mary
I want to speak to Mrs. Osborne
I am come to say good-bye, Amelia
Good-bye? and where are you going
Send the letters to the agents
they will forward them; for you will write to me, won't you? I shall be away a long time
I'll write to you about Georgy
Dear' William, how good you have been to him and to me. Look at him. Isn't he like an angel
God bless you
Hush! Don't wake Georgy
no betther than a black- leg
which he shot Captain Marker
Gambling
dear, is good to help your income, but not as an income itself. Some day people may be tired of play, and then where are we
Ah, Monsieur
ils m'ont affreusement vole
society
society
You can't shoot me into society
Remember, my dear, that I was but a governess, and you, you poor silly old man, have the worst reputation for debt, and dice, and all sorts of wickedness. We shall get quite as many friends as we want by and by, and in the meanwhile you must be a good boy and obey your schoolmistress in everything she tells you to do. When we heard that your aunt had left almost everything to Pitt and his wife, do you remember what a rage you were in? You would have told all Paris, if I had not made you keep your temper, and where would you have been now?-- in prison at Ste. Pelagie for debt, and not established in London in a handsome house, with every comfort about you -- you were in such a fury you were ready to murder your brother, you wicked Cain you, and what good would have come of remaining angry? All the rage in the world won't get us your aunt's money; and it is much better that we should be friends with your brother's family than enemies, as those foolish Butes are. When your father dies, Queen's Crawley will be a pleasant house for you and me to pass the winter in. If we are ruined, you can carve and take charge of the stable, and I can be a governess to Lady Jane's children. Ruined! fiddlede-dee! I will get you a good place before that; or Pitt and his little boy will die, and we will be Sir Rawdon and my lady. While there is life, there is hope, my dear, and I intend to make a man of you yet. Who sold your horses for you? Who paid your debts for you
When Lady Jane comes
she shall be my sponsor in London society; and as for the women! bah! the women will ask me when they find the men want to see me
Rawdon
I must have a sheep-dog
A what
A sheep-dog
My dear Mrs. Crawley, what a fancy! Why not have a Danish dog? I know of one as big as a camel-leopard, by Jove. It would almost pull your brougham. Or a Persian greyhound, eh? (I propose, if you please); or a little pug that would go into one of Lord Steyne's snuff-boxes? There's a man at Bayswater got one with such a nose that you might -- I mark the king and play -- that you might hang your hat on it
I mark the trick
What CAN you want with a shepherd's dog
I mean a MORAL shepherd's dog
What the devil's that
A dog to keep the wolves off me
A companion
Dear little innocent lamb, you want one
And so the shepherd is not enough
to defend his lambkin
The shepherd is too fond of playing at cards and going to his clubs
Gad, what a debauched Corydon
what a mouth for a pipe
I take your three to two
Hark at Meliboeus
he's pastorally occupied too: he's shearing a Southdown. What an innocent mutton, hey? Damme, what a snowy fleece
My lord
you are a knight of the Order
Yes
I must get a watchdog. But he won't bark at YOU
How is Mrs. Crawley's husband
It's my cherub crying for his nurse
Don't agitate your feelings by going to look for him
Bah
For God's sake, Rawdy, don't wake Mamma
By Gad, sir
what a good plucked one that boy of mine is -- what a trump he is! I half-sent his head through the ceiling, by Gad, and he wouldn't cry for fear of disturbing his mother
Hang it, I ain't clever enough for her -- I know it. She won't miss me
Hang it, you know she's so clever
and I'm not literary and that, you know
Don't stay and stupefy yourself at home to-night, my dear
Some men are coming who will only bore you. I would not ask them, but you know it's for your good, and now I have a sheep-dog, I need not be afraid to be alone
A sheep-dog -- a companion! Becky Sharp with a companion! Isn't it good fun
Good morning, your Honour
How do, Clink
This ere young gentleman is about the little Colonel's age, sir
His father was a Waterloo man, too
Wasn't he, Georgy
Yes
In a line regiment
He was a Captain in the -- th regiment
Captain George Osborne, sir -- perhaps you knew him. He died the death of a hero, sir, fighting against the Corsican tyrant
I knew him very well, sir
and his wife, his dear little wife, sir -- how is she
She is my daughter, sir
Mr. Sedley, Sole Agent for the Black Diamond and Anti-Cinder Coal Association, Bunker's Wharf, Thames Street, and Anna-Maria Cottages, Fulham Road West
Should you like to have a ride
Yes
Take hold of him, Georgy
take my little boy round the waist -- his name is Rawdon
You won't see a prettier pair I think, THIS summer's day, sir
I was better off once, sir
used the room
My son, sir, is at this minute chief magistrate of Ramgunge in the Presidency of Bengal, and touching his four thousand rupees per mensem. My daughter might be a Colonel's lady if she liked. I might draw upon my son, the first magistrate, sir, for two thousand pounds to-morrow, and Alexander would cash my bill, down sir, down on the counter, sir. But the Sedleys were always a proud family
Poor devil, what imprudences he has committed, what chances that chap has thrown away
a few select inmates to join a cheerful musical family
I will NOT have baby poisoned, Mamma
Poisoned, Amelia
this language to me
He shall not have any medicine but that which Mr. Pestler sends for hi n. He told me that Daffy's Elixir was poison
Very good: you think I'm a murderess then
This is the language you use to your mother. I have met with misfortunes: I have sunk low in life: I have kept my carriage, and now walk on foot: but I did not know I was a murderess before, and thank you for the NEWS
Mamma
you shouldn't be hard upon me. I -- I didn't mean -- I mean, I did not wish to say you would to any wrong to this dear child, only
Oh, no, my love,-- only that I was a murderess; in which case I had better go to the Old Bailey. Though I didn't poison YOU, when you were a child, but gave you the best of education and the most expensive masters money could procure. Yes; I've nursed five children and buried three; and the one I loved the best of all, and tended through croup, and teething, and measles, and hooping-cough, and brought up with foreign masters, regardless of expense, and with accomplishments at Minerva House -- which I never had when I was a girl -- when I was too glad to honour my father and mother, that I might live long in the land, and to be useful, and not to mope all day in my room and act the fine lady -- says I'm a murderess. Ah, Mrs. Osborne! may YOU never nourish a viper in your bosom, that's MY prayer
Mamma, Mamma
A murderess, indeed! Go down on your knees and pray to God to cleanse your wicked ungrateful heart, Amelia, and may He forgive you as I do
There is nothing in her, Beilby
When she comes to tea here she does not speak a word during the whole evening. She is but a poor lackadaisical creature, and it is my belief has no heart at all. It is only her pretty face which all you gentlemen admire so. Miss Grits, who has five thousand pounds, and expectations besides, has twice as much character, and is a thousand times more agreeable to my taste; and if she were good-looking I know that you would think her perfection
business
Come upstairs, sir
He paid his bills in England
but he had not a hundred pounds in the world when he fell. I and one or two of his brother officers made up the little sum, which was all that we could spare, and you dare tell us that we are trying to cheat the widow and the orphan
Mrs. Mango's own set at the Pineries was not so fine
What a pity it is she won't think of him
Jos never sent us such presents, I am sure, and grudges us everything. It is evident that the Major is over head and ears in love with her; and yet, whenever I so much as hint it, she turns red and begins to cry and goes and sits upstairs with her miniature. I'm sick of that miniature. I wish we had never seen those odious purse-proud Osbornes
What was it: was he coming home
Oh, no -- not the least -- but they had very good reason to believe that dear William was about to be married -- and to a relation of a very dear friend of Amelia's -- to Miss Glorvina O'Dowd, Sir Michael O'Dowd's sister, who had gone out to join Lady O'Dowd at Madras -- a very beautiful and accomplished girl, everybody said
Oh
At least the money will remain in the family
Pitt will never spend it, my dear, that is quite certain; for a greater miser does not exist in England, and he is as odious, though in a different way, as his spendthrift brother, the abandoned Rawdon
Library
Sir Pitt ain't very well
Don't move none of them trunks
It's only a morning visit, Tucker, you fool. Lor, what cracks that off hoss has in his heels! Ain't there no one at the King's Head to rub 'em a little? How do, Pitt? How do, my dear? Come to see the old man, hay? 'Gad -- you've a pretty face, too. You ain't like that old horse-godmother, your mother. Come and give old Pitt a kiss, like a good little gal
Pitt has got vat
Does he read ee very long zermons, my dear? Hundredth Psalm, Evening Hymn, hay Pitt? Go and get a glass of Malmsey and a cake for my Lady Jane, Horrocks, you great big booby, and don't stand stearing there like a fat pig. I won't ask you to stop, my dear; you'll find it too stoopid, and so should I too along a Pitt. I'm an old man now, and like my own ways, and my pipe and backgammon of a night
I can play at backgammon, sir
I used to play with Papa and Miss Crawley, didn't I, Mr. Crawley
Lady Jane can play, sir, at the game to which you state that you are so partial
I perceive, sir
that your people will cut down the timber
Yees, yees, very fine weather, and seasonable for the time of year
I'm gittin' very old, and have been cruel bad this year with the lumbago. I shan't be here now for long; but I'm glad ee've come, daughter-in-law. I like your face, Lady Jane: it's got none of the damned high-boned Binkie look in it; and I'll give ee something pretty, my dear, to go to Court in
Take that
my dear; it belonged to my mother, and afterwards to the first Lady Binkie. Pretty pearls -- never gave 'em the ironmonger's daughter. No, no. Take 'em and put 'em up quick
What have you a been and given Pitt's wife
Sir
Mum
Madam
My Lady
There has been better ladies, and there has been worser, Hester
as was to be a Baronet's lady
her ladyship
Lor, Mum, 'tis bittiful
Look at that, James and Mr. Crawley
He gave 'em me; he gave 'em me
Gave them you, you abandoned creature
Bear witness, Mr. Crawley, we found this good-for-nothing woman in the act of stealing your brother's property; and she will be hanged, as I always said she would
Ring the bell, James
Go on ringing it till the people come
Put that woman in the strong-room
We caught her in the act of robbing Sir Pitt. Mr. Crawley, you'll make out her committal -- and, Beddoes, you'll drive her over in the spring cart, in the morning, to Southampton Gaol
My dear
she's only
Are there no handcuffs
There used to be handcuffs. Where's the creature's abominable father
He DID give 'em me
didn't he, Hester? You saw Sir Pitt -- you know you did -- give 'em me, ever so long ago -- the day after Mudbury fair: not that I want 'em. Take 'em if you think they ain't mine
Law, Betsy, how could you go for to tell such a wicked story
and to Madame Crawley, so good and kind, and his Rev'rince (with a curtsey), and you may search all MY boxes, Mum, I'm sure, and here's my keys as I'm an honest girl, though of pore parents and workhouse bred -- and if you find so much as a beggarly bit of lace or a silk stocking out of all the gownds as YOU'VE had the picking of, may I never go to church agin
Give up your keys, you hardened hussy
And here's a candle, Mum, and if you please, Mum, I can show you her room, Mum, and the press in the housekeeper's room, Mum, where she keeps heaps and heaps of things, Mum
Hold your tongue, if you please. I know the room which the creature occupies perfectly well. Mrs. Brown, have the goodness to come with me, and Beddoes don't you lose sight of that woman
Mr. Crawley, you had better go upstairs and see that they are not murdering your unfortunate brother
Hold your tongue, you stoopid old fool
If you please, Sir Pitt, Sir Pitt died this morning, Sir Pitt. I was a-making of his toast, Sir Pitt, for his gruel, Sir Pitt, which he took every morning regular at six, Sir Pitt, and -- I thought I heard a moan-like, Sir Pitt -- and -- and -- and
I'll clear the estate now with the ready money
Shall I write to your brother -- or will you
I will write, of course
and invite him to the funeral: it will be but becoming
And -- and -- Mrs. Rawdon
Jane
how can you think of such a thing
Mrs. Rawdon must of course be asked
Not whilst I am in the house
Your Ladyship will be pleased to recollect that I am the head of this family
If you please, Lady Jane, you will write a letter to Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, requesting her presence upon this melancholy occasion
Jane, I forbid you to put pen to paper
I believe I am the head of this family
and however much I may regret any circumstance which may lead to your Ladyship quitting this house, must, if you please, continue to govern it as I see fit
We don't turn you out of our house, Mamma
You invite such company to it as no Christian lady should meet, and I will have my horses to-morrow morning
Have the goodness to write, Jane, under my dictation
and begin. 'Queen's Crawley, September 14, 1822.-- My dear brother
She won't go away
She has let her house at Brighton and has spent her last half-year's dividends. A Countess living at an inn is a ruined woman. I have been waiting long for an opportunity -- to take this -- this decisive step, my love; for, as you must perceive, it is impossible that there should be two chiefs in a family: and now, if you please, we will resume the dictation. 'My dear brother, the melancholy intelligence which it is my duty to convey to my family must have been long anticipated by
What an orator this will be
how wise and good, and what a genius my husband is! I fancied him a little cold; but how good, and what a genius
What's the use of going down to that stupid place
I can't stand being alone with Pitt after dinner, and horses there and back will cost us twenty pound
Hurray
Hurray
He's not left us anything, Becky. I had my share when I came of age
You'll never be of age, you silly old man
Run out now to Madam Brunoy's, for I must have some mourning: and get a crape on your hat, and a black waistcoat -- I don't think you've got one; order it to be brought home to-morrow, so that we may be able to start on Thursday
You don't mean to go
Of course I mean to go. I mean that Lady Jane shall present me at Court next year. I mean that your brother shall give you a seat in Parliament, you stupid old creature. I mean that Lord Steyne shall have your vote and his, my dear, old silly man; and that you shall be an Irish Secretary, or a West Indian Governor: or a Treasurer, or a Consul, or some such thing
Posting will cost a dooce of a lot of money
We might take Southdown's carriage, which ought to be present at the funeral, as he is a relation of the family: but, no -- I intend that we shall go by the coach. They'll like it better. It seems more humble
Rawdy goes, of course
No such thing; why pay an extra place? He's too big to travel bodkin between you and me. Let him stay here in the nursery, and Briggs can make him a black frock. Go you, and do as I bid you. And you had best tell Sparks, your man, that old Sir Pitt is dead and that you will come in for something considerable when the affairs are arranged. He'll tell this to Raggles, who has been pressing for money, and it will console poor Raggles
Miss Briggs and I are plunged in grief and despondency for the death of our Papa
Sir Pitt Crawley is dead, my lord. We have been tearing our hair all the morning, and now we are tearing up our old clothes
Oh, Rebecca, how can you
Oh, Rebecca, how can you
So that old scoundrel's dead, is he? He might have been a Peer if he had played his cards better. Mr. Pitt had very nearly made him; but he ratted always at the wrong time. What an old Silenus it was
I might have been Silenus's widow
Don't you remember, Miss Briggs, how you peeped in at the door and saw old Sir Pitt on his knees to me
Gentlewoman of agreeable manners, and accustomed to the best society, was anxious to
Apartments to Let
I wouldn't trust him, Ragg, my boy
wherein you will rue it, Miss B., mark my words, and as sure as my name is Bowls
It's the old drag, Rawdon
The worms have eaten the cloth a good deal -- there's the stain which Sir Pitt -- ha! I see Dawson the Ironmonger has his shutters up -- which Sir Pitt made such a noise about. It was a bottle of cherry brandy he broke which we went to fetch for your aunt from Southampton. How time flies, to be sure! That can't be Polly Talboys, that bouncing girl standing by her mother at the cottage there. I remember her a mangy little urchin picking weeds in the garden
Fine gal
Your sisters must be young women now
Don't know, I'm shaw
Hullo! here's old Mother Lock. How-dy-do, Mrs. Lock? Remember me, don't you? Master Rawdon, hey? Dammy how those old women last; she was a hundred when I was a boy
The governor has cut into the timber
Dev'lish nice little woman, Lady Jane
Pitt's got fat, too, and is doing the thing handsomely
He can afford it
that the mother-in-law was a tremendous old Guy -- and that the sisters were rather well-looking young women
She's hardly changed since eight years
Those red-haired women look wonderfully well
Hers is much darker than it was; I think she must dye it
She is stouter, too, and altogether improved
At least she gives herself no airs and remembers that she was our Governess once
It can't be true what the girls at the Rectory said, that her mother was an opera-dancer
A person can't help their birth
And I agree with our brother, that as she is in the family, of course we are bound to notice her. I am sure Aunt Bute need not talk; she wants to marry Kate to young Hooper, the wine- merchant, and absolutely asked him to come to the Rectory for orders
I wonder whether Lady Southdown will go away, she looked very glum upon Mrs. Rawdon
I wish she would. I won't read the Washerwoman of Finchley Common
What I should like best
would be to go to the nursery and see your dear little children
I wish Mamma would not insist on giving him so much medicine
I often think we should all be better without it
Give us Lady Southdown and the black dose
She succeeded in making us poor
but how can I be angry with a woman who has given me one of the best husbands in the world? And has not her own avarice been sufficiently punished by the ruin of her own hopes and the loss of the property by which she set so much store? Poor
Dear Lady Jane, what care we for poverty? I am used to it from childhood, and I am often thankful that Miss Crawley's money has gone to restore the splendour of the noble old family of which I am so proud to be a member. I am sure Sir Pitt will make a much better use of it than Rawdon would
Ahem! Rebecca, may I give you a wing
our dear brother departed
I am very well
I hope you are very well. I hope Mamma is very well. The pony is very well. Grey takes me to ride in the park. I can canter. I met the little boy who rode before. He cried when he cantered. I do not cry
It isn't difficult to be a country gentleman's wife
I think I could be a good woman if I had five thousand a year. I could dawdle about in the nursery and count the apricots on the wall. I could water plants in a green-house and pick off dead leaves from the geraniums. I could ask old women about their rheumatisms and order half-a-crown's worth of soup for the poor. I shouldn't miss it much, out of five thousand a year. I could even drive out ten miles to dine at a neighbour's, and dress in the fashions of the year before last. I could go to church and keep awake in the great family pew, or go to sleep behind the curtains, with my veil down, if I only had practice. I could pay everybody, if I had but the money. This is what the conjurors here pride themselves upon doing. They look down with pity upon us miserable sinners who have none. They think themselves generous if they give our children a five-pound note, and us contemptible if we are without one
I have passed beyond it, because I have brains
How happy you will be to see your darling little boy again
Oh so happy
It is all the influence of a long course of Three Per Cents
Fred might take it, and welcome, or leave it, and go and be hanged
I always told you, Maria, that it was your money he loved and not you
He selected me and my money at any rate; he didn't choose you and yours
knuckled down
My son, sir, of the house of Hulker, Bullock, and Co., sir; my daughter's cousin, Lady Mary Mango, sir, daughter of the Right Hon. The Earl of Castlemouldy
nobs
So Russell Square is not good enough for Mrs. Maria, hay
So she invites her father and sister to a second day's dinner (if those sides, or ontrys, as she calls 'em, weren't served yesterday, I'm d -- d), and to meet City folks and littery men, and keeps the Earls and the Ladies, and the Honourables to herself. Honourables? Damn Honourables. I am a plain British merchant I am, and could buy the beggarly hounds over and over. Lords, indeed!-- why, at one of her swarreys I saw one of 'em speak to a dam fiddler -- a fellar I despise. And they won't come to Russell Square, won't they? Why, I'll lay my life I've got a better glass of wine, and pay a better figure for it, and can show a handsomer service of silver, and can lay a better dinner on my mahogany, than ever they see on theirs -- the cringing, sneaking, stuck-up fools. Drive on quick, James: I want to get back to Russell Square -- ha, ha
That's more than any of your Lords will give, I'LL warrant
Fashionable Reunions
Jane and I do not move in the same sphere of life
I regard her as a sister, of course
What's the matter, Miss Osborne
Oh, sir
I've seen little George. He is as beautiful as an angel -- and so like him
Look at Glorvina enter a room
and compare her with that poor Mrs. Osborne, who couldn't say boo to a goose. She'd be worthy of you, Major -- you're a quiet man yourself, and want some one to talk for ye. And though she does not come of such good blood as the Malonys or Molloys, let me tell ye, she's of an ancient family that any nobleman might be proud to marry into
Bah
she is only keeping her hand in -- she practises upon me as she does upon Mrs. Tozer's piano, because it's the most handy instrument in the station. I am much too battered and old for such a fine young lady as Glorvina
Faith, the Major's big enough to choose for himself
Dobbin was too young to keep house, and had written home to ask lave of his mamma
Mind your oi, Dob, my boy, them girls is bent on mischief -- me Lady has just got a box of gowns from Europe, and there's a pink satin for Glorvina, which will finish ye, Dob, if it's in the power of woman or satin to move ye
Your sister has just kindly visited me
O Amelia, Amelia
you to whom I have been so faithful -- you reproach me! It is because you cannot feel for me that I drag on this wearisome life. And you reward me after years of devotion by giving me your blessing upon my marriage, forsooth, with this flaunting Irish girl
Good God, Amelia
don't you know that I only love you in the world -- you, who are a stone to me -- you, whom I tended through months and months of illness and grief, and who bade me farewell with a smile on your face, and forgot me before the door shut between us
more than on any of the others
He'll break my heart, he will, Peggy
sure every one of me frocks must be taken in -- it's such a skeleton I'm growing
he had no sort of present intention of altering his condition
O'Dowd -- Colonel
Heavens, Meejor
What is it, Dob, me boy
I -- I must have leave of absence. I must go to England -- on the most urgent private affairs
Good heavens, what has happened
I want to be off -- now -- to-night
I drove yesterday to see your old ACQUAINTANCE, Mrs. Osborne. The wretched place they live at, since they were bankrupts, you know -- Mr. S., to judge from a BRASS PLATE on the door of his hut (it is little better) is a coal-merchant. The little boy, your godson, is certainly a fine child, though forward, and inclined to be saucy and self-willed. But we have taken notice of him as you wish it, and have introduced him to his aunt, Miss O., who was rather pleased with him. Perhaps his grandpapa, not the bankrupt one, who is almost doting, but Mr. Osborne, of Russell Square, may be induced to relent towards the child of your friend, HIS ERRING AND SELF-WILLED SON. And Amelia will not be ill-disposed to give him up. The widow is CONSOLED, and is about to marry a reverend gentleman, the Rev. Mr. Binny, one of the curates of Brompton. A poor match. But Mrs. O. is getting old, and I saw a great deal of grey in her hair -- she was in very good spirits: and your little godson overate himself at our house. Mamma sends her love with that of your affectionate, Ann Dobbin
Thank you
how happy this will make Rawdon
I knew I should bring you
Isn't it a good salmi
I made it for you. I can make you better dishes than that, and will when you come to see me
Everything you do, you do well
The salmi is excellent indeed
A poor man's wife
she was fit to be the wife of an Emperor, and that to be skilful in domestic duties was surely one of the most charming of woman's qualities
I wish you could have got a little money out of him
I should like to give something to old Raggles, hanged if I shouldn't. It ain't right, you know, that the old fellow should be kept out of all his money. It may be inconvenient, and he might let to somebody else besides us, you know
Tell him
that as soon as Sir Pitt's affairs are settled, everybody will be paid, and give him a little something on account. Here's a cheque that Pitt left for the boy
It is not because it hurts me
only -- only
Why mayn't I hear her singing? Why don't she ever sing to me -- as she does to that baldheaded man with the large teeth
Was Rebecca guilty or not
that kep him up
a position in society
He's the finest boy in England
and you don't seem to care for him, Becky, as much as you do for your spaniel. He shan't bother you much; at home he will be away from you in the nursery, and he shall go outside on the coach with me
Where you go yourself because you want to smoke those filthy cigars
I remember when you liked 'em though
That was when I was on my promotion, Goosey
Take Rawdon outside with you and give him a cigar too if you like
It's the old Turkey one that used to be in the Ladies' Gallery
I like to dine here
I like to dine here
Why
I dine in the kitchen when I am at home
or else with Briggs
Who was Grandpapa
There is that new lodge-gate
I can no more pay for it before the dividends in January than I can fly
I can lend you, Pitt, till then
county balls
You remain a Baronet -- you consent to be a mere country gentleman
No, Sir Pitt Crawley, I know you better. I know your talents and your ambition. You fancy you hide them both, but you can conceal neither from me. I showed Lord Steyne your pamphlet on malt. He was familiar with it, and said it was in the opinion of the whole Cabinet the most masterly thing that had appeared on the subject. The Ministry has its eye upon you, and I know what you want. You want to distinguish yourself in Parliament; every one says you are the finest speaker in England (for your speeches at Oxford are still remembered). You want to be Member for the County, where, with your own vote and your borough at your back, you can command anything. And you want to be Baron Crawley of Queen's Crawley, and will be before you die. I saw it all. I could read your heart, Sir Pitt. If I had a husband who possessed your intellect as he does your name, I sometimes think I should not be unworthy of him -- but -- but I am your kinswoman now
Poor little penniless, I have got a little interest -- and who knows, perhaps the mouse may be able to aid the lion
How that woman comprehends me
I never could get Jane to read three pages of the malt pamphlet. She has no idea that I have commanding talents or secret ambition. So they remember my speaking at Oxford, do they? The rascals! Now that I represent my borough and may sit for the county, they begin to recollect me! Why, Lord Steyne cut me at the levee last year; they are beginning to find out that Pitt Crawley is some one at last. Yes, the man was always the same whom these people neglected: it was only the opportunity that was wanting, and I will show them now that I can speak and act as well as write. Achilles did not declare himself until they gave him the sword. I hold it now, and the world shall yet hear of Pitt Crawley
You never kiss me at home, Mamma
Let's try Sowster's Spinney, Tom
Farmer Mangle tells me there are two foxes in it
I have no taste for bread and butter
No more has a certain person for holy water
Mrs. S --, Miss Emmy, and Mr. Joseph in India
This was not what you was accustomed to once, sir
He'd known him in times when Rothschild might be seen on 'Change with him any day, and he owed him personally everythink
Such a little fish as me can swim in any bucket
What matters it
For an old woman like me
I expect YOU, dear
for of course my share of our Papa's property must go to the head of the house, you know. Dear Rhoda McMull will disengage the whole of the Castletoddy property as soon as poor dear Lord Castletoddy dies, who is quite epileptic; and little Macduff McMull will be Viscount Castletoddy. Both the Mr. Bludyers of Mincing Lane have settled their fortunes on Fanny Bludyer's little boy. My darling Frederick must positively be an eldest son; and -- and do ask Papa to bring us back his account in Lombard Street, will you, dear? It doesn't look well, his going to Stumpy and Rowdy's
I bought it with my money, sir
Go and order another like it, or a better if you can get it
Only old Sir William, who drove him about in the four-wheeled chaise, and Mr. Dobbin, who arrived on the beautiful bay horse in the afternoon -- in the green coat and pink neck-cloth, with the gold-headed whip, who promised to show him the Tower of London and take him out with the Surrey hounds
There was an old gentleman, with thick eyebrows, and a broad hat, and large chain and seals
He looked at me very much. He shook very much. I said 'My name is Norval' after dinner. My aunt began to cry. She is always crying
I marry again! I take money to part from my child! Who dares insult me by proposing such a thing? Tell Mr. Osborne it is a cowardly letter, sir -- a cowardly letter -- I will not answer it. I wish you good morning, sir -- and she bowed me out of the room like a tragedy Queen
George Osborne, A Christmas gift from his affectionate- mother
What are those
Some books for Georgy
Books
Books, when the whole house wants bread! Books, when to keep you and your son in luxury, and your dear father out of gaol, I've sold every trinket I had, the India shawl from my back even down to the very spoons, that our tradesmen mightn't insult us, and that Mr. Clapp, which indeed he is justly entitled, being not a hard landlord, and a civil man, and a father, might have his rent. Oh, Amelia! you break my heart with your books and that boy of yours, whom you are ruining, though part with him you will not. Oh, Amelia, may God send you a more dutiful child than I have had! There's Jos, deserts his father in his old age; and there's George, who might be provided for, and who might be rich, going to school like a lord, with a gold watch and chain round his neck -- while my dear, dear old man is without a sh -- shilling
Oh, Mother, Mother
You told me nothing -- I -- I promised him the books. I -- I only sold my shawl this morning. Take the money -- take everything
The Prince and Perdita have been in and out of that door, sir
Marianne Clarke has entered it with the Duke of ------. It conducts to the famous petits appartements of Lord Steyne -- one, sir, fitted up all in ivory and white satin, another in ebony and black velvet; there is a little banqueting-room taken from Sallust's house at Pompeii, and painted by Cosway -- a little private kitchen, in which every saucepan was silver and all the spits were gold. It was there that Egalite Orleans roasted partridges on the night when he and the Marquis of Steyne won a hundred thousand from a great personage at ombre. Half of the money went to the French Revolution, half to purchase Lord Gaunt's Marquisate and Garter -- and the remainder
The humiliations
which that woman has been made to undergo, in her own house, have been frightful; Lord Steyne has made her sit down to table with women with whom I would rather die than allow Mrs. Eaves to associate -- with Lady Crackenbury, with Mrs. Chippenham, with Madame de la Cruchecassee, the French secretary's wife (from every one of which ladies Tom Eaves -- who would have sacrificed his wife for knowing them -- was too glad to get a bow or a dinner) with the REIGNING FAVOURITE in a word. And do you suppose that that woman, of that family, who are as proud as the Bourbons, and to whom the Steynes are but lackeys, mushrooms of yesterday (for after all, they are not of the Old Gaunts, but of a minor and doubtful branch of the house); do you suppose, I say (the reader must bear in mind that it is always Tom Eaves who speaks) that the Marchioness of Steyne, the haughtiest woman in England, would bend down to her husband so submissively if there were not some cause? Pooh! I tell you there are secret reasons. I tell you that, in the emigration, the Abbe de la Marche who was here and was employed in the Quiberoon business with Puisaye and Tinteniac, was the same Colonel of Mousquetaires Gris with whom Steyne fought in the year '86 -- that he and the Marchioness met again -- that it was after the Reverend Colonel was shot in Brittany that Lady Steyne took to those extreme practices of devotion which she carries on now; for she is closeted with her director every day -- she is at service at Spanish Place, every morning, I've watched her there -- that is, I've happened to be passing there -- and depend on it, there's a mystery in her case. People are not so unhappy unless they have something to repent of
and depend on it, that woman would not be so submissive as she is if the Marquis had not some sword to hold over her
Take it as a rule
Then again, as to the feeling of elder towards younger sons. My dear sir, you ought to know that every elder brother looks upon the cadets of the house as his natural enemies, who deprive him of so much ready money which ought to be his by right. I have often heard George Mac Turk, Lord Bajazet's eldest son, say that if he had his will when he came to the title, he would do what the sultans do, and clear the estate by chopping off all his younger brothers' heads at once; and so the case is, more or less, with them all. I tell you they are all Turks in their hearts. Pooh! sir, they know the world
Bravo, Latimer! Well said, Loyola
Brazil
Brazil is St. John's Wood. Rio de Janeiro is a cottage surrounded by four walls, and George Gaunt is accredited to a keeper, who has invested him with the order of the Strait-Waistcoat
I have taken your son
why not you? I may shut you up in a prison some day like your son George. I may tap you on the head to-morrow, and away go pleasure and honours, feasts and beauty, friends, flatterers, French cooks, fine horses and houses -- in exchange for a prison, a keeper, and a straw mattress like George Gaunt's
Lord Steyne is really too bad
but everybody goes, and of course I shall see that my girls come to no harm
His lordship is a man to whom I owe much, everything in life
His morals are bad
but hang it, he's got the best dry Sillery in Europe
Where you see such persons as the Bishop of Ealing and the Countess of Slingstone, you may be pretty sure, Jane
that we cannot be wrong. The great rank and station of Lord Steyne put him in a position to command people in our station in life. The Lord Lieutenant of a County, my dear, is a respectable man. Besides, George Gaunt and I were intimate in early life; he was my junior when we were attaches at Pumpernickel together
My dear Mrs. Crawley, it must have cost a little fortune
Where the doose did you get the diamonds, Becky
Shall I betray you
Guess
Why, you silly man
where do you suppose I got them?-- all except the little clasp, which a dear friend of mine gave me long ago. I hired them, to be sure. I hired them at Mr. Polonius's, in Coventry Street. You don't suppose that all the diamonds which go to Court belong to the wearers; like those beautiful stones which Lady Jane has, and which are much handsomer than any which I have, I am certain
They are family jewels
which Jews might kiss and infidels adore
But I hope your lordship is orthodox
One must, my dear, show one is somebody
One mustn't be seen with doubtful people. I pity Lady Crackenbury from my heart, and Mrs. Washington White may be a very good-natured person. YOU may go and dine with them, as you like your rubber. But I mustn't, and won't; and you will have the goodness to tell Smith to say I am not at home when either of them calls
If you had been sandy-haired, green-eyed, and a French rope- dancer's daughter
You might have had superb diamonds forsooth, and have been presented at Court by your cousin, the Lady Jane. But you're only a gentlewoman, my poor dear child. You have only some of the best blood in England in your veins, and good principles and piety for your portion. I, myself, the wife of a Baronet's younger brother, too, never thought of such a thing as going to Court -- nor would other people, if good Queen Charlotte had been alive
Thank you, Monseigneur
You see your ladies have been here. How good of you! I couldn't come before -- I was in the kitchen making a pudding
I know you were, I saw you through the area-railings as I drove up
You see everything
A few things, but not that, my pretty lady
You silly little fibster! I heard you in the room overhead, where I have no doubt you were putting a little rouge on -- you must give some of yours to my Lady Gaunt, whose complexion is quite preposterous -- and I heard the bedroom door open, and then you came downstairs
Is it a crime to try and look my best when YOU come here
Well
you are bent on becoming a fine lady. You pester my poor old life out to get you into the world. You won't be able to hold your own there, you silly little fool. You've got no money
You will get us a place
as quick as possible
You've got no money, and you want to compete with those who have. You poor little earthenware pipkin, you want to swim down the stream along with the great copper kettles. All women are alike. Everybody is striving for what is not worth the having! Gad! I dined with the King yesterday, and we had neck of mutton and turnips. A dinner of herbs is better than a stalled ox very often. You will go to Gaunt House. You give an old fellow no rest until you get there. It's not half so nice as here. You'll be bored there. I am. My wife is as gay as Lady Macbeth, and my daughters as cheerful as Regan and Goneril. I daren't sleep in what they call my bedroom. The bed is like the baldaquin of St. Peter's, and the pictures frighten me. I have a little brass bed in a dressing-room, and a little hair mattress like an anchorite. I am an anchorite. Ho! ho! You'll be asked to dinner next week. And gare aux femmes, look out and hold your own! How the women will bully you
If you don't turn off that abominable sheep-dog
I will have her poisoned
I always give my dog dinner from my own plate
I can't send her away
You owe her her wages, I suppose
Worse than that
I have ruined her
Ruined her? Then why don't you turn her out
Men do that
Women are not so bad as you. Last year, when we were reduced to our last guinea, she gave us everything. She shall never leave me, until we are ruined utterly ourselves, which does not seem far off, or until I can pay her the utmost farthing
it, how much is it
I could not help it. It was my only chance. I dare not tell my husband. He would kill me if I told him what I have done. I have kept it a secret from everybody but you -- and you forced it from me. Ah, what shall I do, Lord Steyne? for I am very, very unhappy
How she would take it
And I hope this will be a lesson to you, Spavin
and that on the next drawing-room day my brother, Sir Pitt, will not be inconvenienced by being obliged to take four of us in his carriage to wait upon His Majesty, because my own carriage is not forthcoming
My Lady Steyne
I want to see the list for your dinner on Friday; and I want you, if you please, to write a card for Colonel and Mrs. Crawley
Blanche writes them
Lady Gaunt writes them
I will not write to that person
Send the children out of the room. Go
Not you
You stop
My Lady Steyne
once more will you have the goodness to go to the desk and write that card for your dinner on Friday
My Lord, I will not be present at it
I will go home
I wish you would, and stay there. You will find the bailiffs at Bareacres very pleasant company, and I shall be freed from lending money to your relations and from your own damned tragedy airs. Who are you to give orders here? You have no money. You've got no brains. You were here to have children, and you have not had any. Gaunt's tired of you, and George's wife is the only person in the family who doesn't wish you were dead. Gaunt would marry again if you were
I wish I were
You, forsooth, must give yourself airs of virtue, while my wife, who is an immaculate saint, as everybody knows, and never did wrong in her life, has no objection to meet my young friend Mrs. Crawley. My Lady Steyne knows that appearances are sometimes against the best of women; that lies are often told about the most innocent of them. Pray, madam, shall I tell you some little anecdotes about my Lady Bareacres, your mamma
You may strike me if you like, sir, or hit any cruel blow
My sweet Blanche
I am a gentleman, and never lay my hand upon a woman, save in the way of kindness. I only wish to correct little faults in your character. You women are too proud, and sadly lack humility, as Father Mole, I'm sure, would tell my Lady Steyne if he were here. You mustn't give yourselves airs; you must be meek and humble, my blessings. For all Lady Steyne knows, this calumniated, simple, good-humoured Mrs. Crawley is quite innocent -- even more innocent than herself. Her husband's character is not good, but it is as good as Bareacres', who has played a little and not paid a great deal, who cheated you out of the only legacy you ever had and left you a pauper on my hands. And Mrs. Crawley is not very well-born, but she is not worse than Fanny's illustrious ancestor, the first de la Jones
The money which I brought into the family, sir
You purchased a contingent reversion with it
If Gaunt dies, your husband may come to his honours; your little boys may inherit them, and who knows what besides? In the meanwhile, ladies, be as proud and virtuous as you like abroad, but don't give ME any airs. As for Mrs. Crawley's character, I shan't demean myself or that most spotless and perfectly irreproachable lady by even hinting that it requires a defence. You will be pleased to receive her with the utmost cordiality, as you will receive all persons whom I present in this house. This house
Who is the master of it? and what is it? This Temple of Virtue belongs to me. And if I invite all Newgate or all Bedlam here, by ------ they shall be welcome
Come to us next Friday
He has not been here for four months
I can always tell by my cheque-book afterwards, when I get a visit from Bareacres. What a comfort it is, my ladies, I bank with one of my sons' fathers-in-law, and the other banks with me
Look at his face. I think he must be descended from a sheep
Just as I was stepping up to offer my hand to a very pleasing and witty fashionable, the brilliant and exclusive Mrs. Rawdon Crawley
the young patrician interposed between me and the lady and whisked my Helen off without a word of apology. I was fain to bring up the rear with the Colonel, the lady's husband, a stout red-faced warrior who distinguished himself at Waterloo, where he had better luck than befell some of his brother redcoats at New Orleans
I had the pleasure of making your Ladyship's acquaintance at Brussels, ten years ago
I had the good fortune to meet Lady Bareacres at the Duchess of Richmond's ball, the night before the Battle of Waterloo. And I recollect your Ladyship, and my Lady Blanche, your daughter, sitting in the carriage in the porte-cochere at the Inn, waiting for horses. I hope your Ladyship's diamonds are safe
knuckling down by Jove
I think I needn't be afraid of THAT woman
Lord Steyne
says you sing and play very beautifully, Mrs. Crawley -- I wish you would do me the kindness to sing to me
I will do anything that may give pleasure to my Lord Steyne or to you
My wife says you have been singing like an angel
Don't want 'em
Be off
Ah
you despise your old father now
Oh, papal it is not that
What is the matter, Mother
you look very pale
Nothing, my child
What? Mrs. Pride has come down, has she
Reg'lar starved out, hey? Ha, ha! I knew she would
Get the room over mine -- his room that was -- ready
Yes, sir
This is blessed news, m'am -- indeed, m'am
You had better send that woman some money
She shan't want for nothing. Send her a hundred pound
And I'll go and see her to-morrow
That's your look out. She don't come in here, mind. No, by ------, not for all the money in London. But she mustn't want now. So look out, and get things right
Here, Papa, is some money
And -- and, Mamma, don't be harsh with Georgy. He -- he is not going to stop with us long
He would come and see his mamma often on the pony
He would come and fetch her in the carriage; they would drive in the park, and she should have everything she wanted
the best
best people
I wish I were out of it
I would rather be a parson's wife and teach a Sunday school than this; or a sergeant's lady and ride in the regimental waggon; or, oh, how much gayer it would be to wear spangles and trousers and dance before a booth at a fair
You would do it very well
Rawdon would make a very good Ecuyer -- Master of the Ceremonies -- what do you call him -- the man in the large boots and the uniform, who goes round the ring cracking the whip? He is large, heavy, and of a military figure. I recollect
my father took me to see a show at Brookgreen Fair when I was a child, and when we came home, I made myself a pair of stilts and danced in the studio to the wonder of all the pupils
I should have liked to see it
I should like to do it now
How Lady Blinkey would open her eyes, and Lady Grizzel Macbeth would stare! Hush! silence! there is Pasta beginning to sing
How cool that woman is
what airs of independence she assumes, where she ought to sit still and be thankful if anybody speaks to her
What an honest and good-natured soul she is
Yesterday, Colonel and Mrs. Crawley entertained a select party at dinner at their house in May Fair. Their Excellencies the Prince and Princess of Peterwaradin, H. E. Papoosh Pasha, the Turkish Ambassador (attended by Kibob Bey, dragoman of the mission), the Marquess of Steyne, Earl of Southdown, Sir Pitt and Lady Jane Crawley, Mr. Wagg, &amp;c. After dinner Mrs. Crawley had an assembly which was attended by the Duchess (Dowager) of Stilton, Duc de la Gruyere, Marchioness of Cheshire, Marchese Alessandro Strachino, Comte de Brie, Baron Schapzuger, Chevalier Tosti, Countess of Slingstone, and Lady F. Macadam, Major-General and Lady G. Macbeth, and (2) Miss Macbeths; Viscount Paddington, Sir Horace Fogey, Hon. Sands Bedwin, Bobachy Bahawder
How very well you speak French
I ought to know it
I taught it in a school, and my mother was a Frenchwoman
Now look out for sport
Bid the slave-merchant enter
Mercy! mercy
First two syllables
The Camels are coming
Last two syllables
Good God
it's Mrs. Rawdon Crawley
Brava! brava
By --, she'd do it too
Manager! Clytemnestra
Heigh ha? Run him through the body. Marry somebody else, hay
Mrs. Rawdon Crawley was quite killing in the part
First syllable
Ostler, bring round my gig
Second syllable
I think it must be 'Hotel
All in the Downs
Rule Britannia
Now, gents, for the shore
Le Rossignol
Philomele, Philomele
Why, child, you are always laughing and singing
None but a compatriot
could have performed that majestic dance in such a way
Beg your pardon, Colonel, I vish to speak to you most particular
We're three on us -- it's no use bolting
It's you, Moss, is it
How much is it
Only a small thing
One hundred and sixty-six, six and eight-pence, at the suit of Mr. Nathan
Lend me a hundred, Wenham, for God's sake
I've got seventy at home
I've not got ten pounds in the world
Good night, my dear fellow
Good night
in
Stick to it, my boy
there's nothing like a good classical education! Nothing
Do what you like -- dine where you please -- go and have ginger-beer and sawdust at Astley's, or psalm-singing with Lady Jane -- only don't expect me to busy myself with the boy. I have your interests to attend to, as you can't attend to them yourself. I should like to know where you would have been now, and in what sort of a position in society, if I had not looked after you
Who knows
perhaps he may give me a little more
The Colonel was so kind -- Mr. Crawley might be offended and pay back the money, for which she could get no such good interest anywhere else
What an accomplished little devil it is
What a splendid actress and manager! She had almost got a second supply out of me the other day; with her coaxing ways. She beats all the women I have ever seen in the course of all my well-spent life. They are babies compared to her. I am a greenhorn myself, and a fool in her hands -- an old fool. She is unsurpassable in lies
Ah, my Lord
you don't know all I have to suffer and bear in silence; you see me gay and happy before you -- you little know what I have to endure when there is no protector near me. It was my husband, by threats and the most savage treatment, forced me to ask for that sum about which I deceived you. It was he who, foreseeing that questions might be asked regarding the disposal of the money, forced me to account for it as I did. He took the money. He told me he had paid Miss Briggs; I did not want, I did not dare to doubt him. Pardon the wrong which a desperate man is forced to commit, and pity a miserable, miserable woman
She is too clever and -- and gay to be allowed to go from party to party without a companion
You must go with her, Rawdon, wherever she goes, and you must have somebody with her -- one of the girls from Queen's Crawley, perhaps, though they were rather giddy guardians for her
How much pleasanter it is
to have you by my side in the carriage than that foolish old Briggs! Let us always go on so, dear Rawdon. How nice it would be, and how happy we should always be, if we had but the money
You'll find your old bed, Colonel, and everything comfortable
as I may honestly say. You may be pretty sure its kep aired, and by the best of company, too. It was slep in the night afore last by the Honorable Capting Famish, of the Fiftieth Dragoons, whose Mar took him out, after a fortnight, jest to punish him, she said. But, Law bless you, I promise you, he punished my champagne, and had a party ere every night -- reglar tip-top swells, down from the clubs and the West End -- Capting Ragg, the Honorable Deuceace, who lives in the Temple, and some fellers as knows a good glass of wine, I warrant you. I've got a Doctor of Diwinity upstairs, five gents in the coffee-room, and Mrs. Moss has a tably- dy-hoty at half-past five, and a little cards or music afterwards, when we shall be most happy to see you
I'll ring when I want anything
But what is the use of disturbing her night's rest
She won't know whether I am in my room or not. It will be time enough to write to her when she has had her sleep out, and I have had mine. It's only a hundred-and-seventy, and the deuce is in it if we can't raise that
looked towards him
No ceramony, Colonel, I beg
Colonel Crawley
Colonel, you're wanted
It is I, Rawdon
It is Jane
Pitt was gone to a parliamentary dinner
Oh
you -- you don't know how I'm changed since I've known you, and -- and little Rawdy. I -- I'd like to change somehow. You see I want -- I want -- to be
Brava! Brava
What, come back! How d'ye do, Crawley
I am innocent, Rawdon
before God, I am innocent
I am innocent. Say I am innocent
You innocent! Damn you
You lie, you dog
You lie, you coward and villain
Come here
Take off those things
Throw them down
Come upstairs
Don't kill me, Rawdon
I want to see if that man lies about the money as he has about me. Has he given you any
No
that is
Give me your keys
Did he give you this
Yes
I'll send it to him to-day
and I will pay Briggs, who was kind to the boy, and some of the debts. You will let me know where I shall send the rest to you. You might have spared me a hundred pounds, Becky, out of all this -- I have always shared with you
I am innocent
Mon Dieu, madame, what has happened
Festivities at Gaunt House
Good gracious, Rawdon
what brings you here at this time of the morning? Why ain't you at home
Home
Don't be frightened, Pitt. I'm not drunk. Shut the door; I want to speak to you
Pitt, it's all over with me
I'm done
I always said it would come to this
I warned you a thousand times. I can't help you any more. Every shilling of my money is tied up. Even the hundred pounds that Jane took you last night were promised to my lawyer to-morrow morning, and the want of it will put me to great inconvenience. I don't mean to say that I won't assist you ultimately. But as for paying your creditors in full, I might as well hope to pay the National Debt. It is madness, sheer madness, to think of such a thing. You must come to a compromise. It's a painful thing for the family, but everybody does it. There was George Kitely, Lord Ragland's son, went through the Court last week, and was what they call whitewashed, I believe. Lord Ragland would not pay a shilling for him, and
It's not money I want
I'm not come to you about myself. Never mind what happens to me
What is the matter, then
It's the boy
I want you to promise me that you will take charge of him when I'm gone. That dear good wife of yours has always been good to him; and he's fonder of her than he is of his . . .-- Damn it. Look here, Pitt -- you know that I was to have had Miss Crawley's money. I wasn't brought up like a younger brother, but was always encouraged to be extravagant and kep idle. But for this I might have been quite a different man. I didn't do my duty with the regiment so bad. You know how I was thrown over about the money, and who got it
After the sacrifices I have made, and the manner in which I have stood by you, I think this sort of reproach is useless
Your marriage was your own doing, not mine
That's over now
That's over now
Good God! is she dead
I wish I was
If it wasn't for little Rawdon I'd have cut my throat this morning -- and that damned villain's too
It was a regular plan between that scoundrel and her
The bailiffs were put upon me; I was taken as I was going out of his house; when I wrote to her for money, she said she was ill in bed and put me off to another day. And when I got home I found her in diamonds and sitting with that villain alone
And as it may end fatally with me
and as the boy has no mother, I must leave him to you and Jane, Pitt -- only it will be a comfort to me if you will promise me to be his friend
Thank you, brother
I know I can trust your word
I will, upon my honour
Here's six hundred
you didn't know I was so rich. I want you to give the money to Briggs, who lent it to us -- and who was kind to the boy -- and I've always felt ashamed of having taken the poor old woman's money. And here's some more -- I've only kept back a few pounds -- which Becky may as well have, to get on with
Not that
I hope to put a bullet into the man whom that belongs to
What's the row about, Crawley, my boy
No more gambling business, hay, like that when we shot Captain Marker
It's about -- about my wife
I always said she'd throw you over
Is there no way out of it, old boy
Is it only suspicion, you know, or -- or what is it? Any letters? Can't you keep it quiet? Best not make any noise about a thing of that sort if you can help it
Think of his only finding her out now
There's no way but one out of it
and there's only a way out of it for one of us, Mac -- do you understand? I was put out of the way -- arrested -- I found 'em alone together. I told him he was a liar and a coward, and knocked him down and thrashed him
Serve him right
Who is it
The deuce! a Marquis! they said he -- that is, they said you
What the devil do you mean
do you mean that you ever heard a fellow doubt about my wife and didn't tell me, Mac
The world's very censorious, old boy
What the deuce was the good of my telling you what any tom-fools talked about
It was damned unfriendly, Mac
Hold up, old boy
great man or not, we'll put a bullet in him, damn him. As for women, they're all so
You don't know how fond I was of that one
Damme, I followed her like a footman. I gave up everything I had to her. I'm a beggar because I would marry her. By Jove, sir, I've pawned my own watch in order to get her anything she fancied; and she she's been making a purse for herself all the time, and grudged me a hundred pound to get me out of quod
She may be innocent, after all
She says so. Steyne has been a hundred times alone with her in the house before
It may be so
This is what he gave her, Mac, and she kep it unknown to me; and with this money in the house, she refused to stand by me when I was locked up
They won't give 'em up
there's a regular shinty in the house, and everything at sixes and sevens. The landlord's come in and took possession. The servants was a drinkin' up in the drawingroom. They said -- they said you had gone off with the plate, Colonel
One of the servants is off already. And Simpson, the man as was very noisy and drunk indeed, says nothing shall go out of the house until his wages is paid up
I'm glad the little 'un isn't at home
You remember him, Mac, don't you, in the Riding School? How he sat the kicker to be sure! didn't he
That he did, old boy
He's a regular trump, that boy
I say, Mac, if anything goes wrong -- if I drop -- I should like you to -- to go and see him, you know, and say that I was very fond of him, and that. And -- dash it -- old chap, give him these gold sleeve-buttons: it's all I've got
Go down and order some breakfast
What'll you have, Crawley? Some devilled kidneys and a herring -- let's say. And, Clay, lay out some dressing things for the Colonel: we were always pretty much of a size, Rawdon, my boy, and neither of us ride so light as we did when we first entered the corps
Have a little drop, do'ee now, Mrs. Raggles
Simpson! Trotter
How dare you stay here when you heard me call? How dare you sit down in my presence? Where's my maid
YOUR sofy, indeed
I'm a settin' on Mrs. Raggles's sofy. Don't you stir, Mrs. Raggles, Mum. I'm a settin' on Mr. and Mrs. Raggles's sofy, which they bought with honest money, and very dear it cost 'em, too. And I'm thinkin' if I set here until I'm paid my wages, I shall set a precious long time, Mrs. Raggles; and set I will, too -- ha! ha
Trotter! Simpson! turn that drunken wretch out
I shawn't
turn out yourself. Pay our selleries, and turn me out too. WE'LL go fast enough
Are you all here to insult me
when Colonel Crawley comes home I'll
He ain't a coming back
He sent for his things, and I wouldn't let 'em go, although Mr. Raggles would; and I don't b'lieve he's no more a Colonel than I am. He's hoff, and I suppose you're a goin' after him. You're no better than swindlers, both on you. Don't be a bullyin' ME. I won't stand it. Pay us our selleries, I say. Pay us our selleries
Mr. Raggles
you will not surely let me be insulted by that drunken man
Hold your noise, Trotter; do now
Oh, M'am
I never thought to live to see this year day: I've known the Crawley family ever since I was born. I lived butler with Miss Crawley for thirty years; and I little thought one of that family was a goin' to ruing me -- yes, ruing me
Har you a goin' to pay me? You've lived in this 'ouse four year. You've 'ad my substance: my plate and linning. You ho me a milk and butter bill of two 'undred pound, you must 'ave noo laid heggs for your homlets, and cream for your spanil dog
She didn't care what her own flesh and blood had
Many's the time, he'd have starved but for me
He's a charaty-boy now, Cooky
ha! ha
You all seem to be against me
What do you want? I can't pay you on Sunday. Come back to-morrow and I'll pay you everything. I thought Colonel Crawley had settled with you. He will to-morrow. I declare to you upon my honour that he left home this morning with fifteen hundred pounds in his pocket-book. He has left me nothing. Apply to him. Give me a bonnet and shawl and let me go out and find him. There was a difference between us this morning. You all seem to know it. I promise you upon my word that you shall all be paid. He has got a good appointment. Let me go out and find him
Good Heavens! was ever such ill luck as mine
to be so near, and to lose all. Is it all too late
Do not look so
I am not guilty, Pitt, dear Pitt; you were my friend once. Before God, I am not guilty. I seem so. Everything is against me. And oh! at such a moment! just when all my hopes were about to be realized: just when happiness was in store for us
Is this true, what I see in the paper then
It is true. Lord Steyne told me on Friday night, the night of that fatal ball. He has been promised an appointment any time these six months. Mr. Martyr, the Colonial Secretary, told him yesterday that it was made out. That unlucky arrest ensued; that horrible meeting. I was only guilty of too much devotedness to Rawdon's service. I have received Lord Steyne alone a hundred times before. I confess I had money of which Rawdon knew nothing. Don't you know how careless he is of it, and could I dare to confide it to him
I looked for a peerage for you, Pitt
We have talked about it. Your genius and Lord Steyne's interest made it more than probable, had not this dreadful calamity come to put an end to all our hopes. But, first, I own that it was my object to rescue my dear husband -- him whom I love in spite of all his ill usage and suspicions of me -- to remove him from the poverty and ruin which was impending over us. I saw Lord Steyne's partiality for me
I own that I did everything in my power to make myself pleasing to him, and as far as an honest woman may, to secure his -- his esteem. It was only on Friday morning that the news arrived of the death of the Governor of Coventry Island, and my Lord instantly secured the appointment for my dear husband. It was intended as a surprise for him -- he was to see it in the papers to-day. Even after that horrid arrest took place (the expenses of which Lord Steyne generously said he would settle, so that I was in a manner prevented from coming to my husband's assistance), my Lord was laughing with me, and saying that my dearest Rawdon would be consoled when he read of his appointment in the paper, in that shocking spun -- bailiff's house. And then -- then he came home. His suspicions were excited,-- the dreadful scene took place between my Lord and my cruel, cruel Rawdon -- and, O my God, what will happen next? Pitt, dear Pitt! pity me, and reconcile us
I am surprised that woman has the audacity to enter this house
How dare Mrs. Crawley to enter the house of -- of an honest family
Tell her that she does not know all: Tell her that I am innocent, dear Pitt
Upon-my word, my love, I think you do Mrs. Crawley injustice
Indeed I believe her to be
To be what
To be a wicked woman -- a heartless mother, a false wife? She never loved her dear little boy, who used to fly here and tell me of her cruelty to him. She never came into a family but she strove to bring misery with her and to weaken the most sacred affections with her wicked flattery and falsehoods. She has deceived her husband, as she has deceived everybody; her soul is black with vanity, worldliness, and all sorts of crime. I tremble when I touch her. I keep my children out of her sight
Lady Jane
this is really language
It was the diamond-clasp you gave me
Crawley, I congratulate you
What do you mean
It's in the Observer and the Royalist too
What
It is come just in the nick of time
I suppose Crawley had not a shilling in the world
It's a wind that blows everybody good
He can't go away without paying me a pony he owes me
What's the salary
Two or three thousand
But the climate's so infernal, they don't enjoy it long. Liverseege died after eighteen months of it, and the man before went off in six weeks, I hear
Some people say his brother is a very clever man. I always found him a d ----- bore
He must have good interest, though. He must have got the Colonel the place
He
How do you mean
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband
Coventry Island! Where was it? Who had appointed him to the government? You must take me out as your secretary, old boy
How d'ye do, Crawley? I am glad to see you
You come, I suppose, from
Exactly
Then this is my friend Captain Macmurdo, of the Life Guards Green
Delighted to know Captain Macmurdo, I'm sure
As Macmurdo acts for me, and knows what I mean
I had better retire and leave you together
Of course
By no means, my dear Colonel
the interview which I had the honour of requesting was with you personally, though the company of Captain Macmurdo cannot fail to be also most pleasing. In fact, Captain, I hope that our conversation will lead to none but the most agreeable results, very different from those which my friend Colonel Crawley appears to anticipate
Humph
You have seen this gratifying announcement in the papers this morning, Colonel? Government has secured a most valuable servant, and you, if you accept office, as I presume you will, an excellent appointment. Three thousand a year, delightful climate, excellent government-house, all your own way in the Colony, and a certain promotion. I congratulate you with all my heart. I presume you know, gentlemen, to whom my friend is indebted for this piece of patronage
Hanged if I know
To one of the most generous and kindest men in the world, as he is one of the greatest -- to my excellent friend, the Marquis of Steyne
I'll see him d --- before I take his place
You are irritated against my noble friend
and now, in the name of common sense and justice, tell me why
WHY
Why? Dammy
Dammy, indeed
still, look at the matter as a man of the world -- as an honest man -- and see if you have not been in the wrong. You come home from a journey, and find -- what?-- my Lord Steyne supping at your house in Curzon Street with Mrs. Crawley. Is the circumstance strange or novel? Has he not been a hundred times before in the same position? Upon my honour and word as a gentleman
I declare I think that your suspicions are monstrous and utterly unfounded, and that they injure an honourable gentleman who has proved his good-will towards you by a thousand benefactions -- and a most spotless and innocent lady
You don't mean to say that -- that Crawley's mistaken
I believe that Mrs. Crawley is as innocent as my wife, Mrs. Wenham
I believe that, misled by an infernal jealousy, my friend here strikes a blow against not only an infirm and old man of high station, his constant friend and benefactor, but against his wife, his own dearest honour, his son's future reputation, and his own prospects in life
I will tell you what happened
I was sent for this morning by my Lord Steyne, and found him in a pitiable state, as, I need hardly inform Colonel Crawley, any man of age and infirmity would be after a personal conflict with a man of your strength. I say to your face; it was a cruel advantage you took of that strength, Colonel Crawley. It was not only the body of my noble and excellent friend which was wounded -- his heart, sir, was bleeding. A man whom he had loaded with benefits and regarded with affection had subjected him to the foulest indignity. What was this very appointment, which appears in the journals of to-day, but a proof of his kindness to you? When I saw his Lordship this morning I found him in a state pitiable indeed to see, and as anxious as you are to revenge the outrage committed upon him, by blood. You know he has given his proofs, I presume, Colonel Crawley
He has plenty of pluck
Nobody ever said he hadn't
His first order to me was to write a letter of challenge, and to carry it to Colonel Crawley. One or other of us
must not survive the outrage of last night
You're coming to the point, Wenham
I tried my utmost to calm Lord Steyne. Good God! sir
how I regret that Mrs. Wenham and myself had not accepted Mrs. Crawley's invitation to sup with her
She asked you to sup with her
After the opera. Here's the note of invitation -- stop -- no, this is another paper -- I thought I had h, but it's of no consequence, and I pledge you my word to the fact. If we had come -- and it was only one of Mrs. Wenham's headaches which prevented us -- she suffers under them a good deal, especially in the spring -- if we had come, and you had returned home, there would have been no quarrel, no insult, no suspicion -- and so it is positively because my poor wife has a headache that you are to bring death down upon two men of honour and plunge two of the most excellent and ancient families in the kingdom into disgrace and sorrow
I sat for an hour or more by Lord Steyne's bedside, beseeching, imploring Lord Steyne to forego his intention of demanding a meeting. I pointed out to him that the circumstances were after all suspicious -- they were suspicious. I acknowledge it -- any man in your position might have been taken in -- I said that a man furious with jealousy is to all intents and purposes a madman, and should be as such regarded -- that a duel between you must lead to the disgrace of all parties concerned -- that a man of his Lordship's exalted station had no right in these days, when the most atrocious revolutionary principles, and the most dangerous levelling doctrines are preached among the vulgar, to create a public scandal; and that, however innocent, the common people would insist that he was guilty. In fine, I implored him not to send the challenge
I don't believe one word of the whole story
I believe it a d ----- lie, and that you're in it, Mr. Wenham. If the challenge don't come from him, by Jove it shall come from me
You put the affair into my hands, and you shall act as I think fit, by Jove, and not as you do. You have no right to insult Mr. Wenham with this sort of language; and dammy, Mr. Wenham, you deserve an apology. And as for a challenge to Lord Steyne, you may get somebody else to carry it, I won't. If my lord, after being thrashed, chooses to sit still, dammy let him. And as for the affair with -- with Mrs. Crawley, my belief is, there's nothing proved at all: that your wife's innocent, as innocent as Mr. Wenham says she is; and at any rate that you would be a d -- fool not to take the place and hold your tongue
Captain Macmurdo, you speak like a man of sense
I forget any words that Colonel Crawley has used in the irritation of the moment
I thought you would
Shut your mouth, you old stoopid
Mr. Wenham ain't a fighting man; and quite right, too
This matter, in my belief
ought to be buried in the most profound oblivion. A word concerning it should never pass these doors. I speak in the interest of my friend, as well as of Colonel Crawley, who persists in considering me his enemy
I suppose Lord Steyne won't talk about it very much
and I don't see why our side should. The affair ain't a very pretty one, any way you take it, and the less said about it the better. It's you are thrashed, and not us; and if you are satisfied, why, I think, we should be
You don't stick at a trifle, Mr. Wenham
You flatter me, Captain Macmurdo
Upon my honour and conscience now, Mrs. Crawley did ask us to sup after the opera
Of course; and Mrs. Wenham had one of her head-aches. I say, I've got a thousand-pound note here, which I will give you if you will give me a receipt, please; and I will put the note up in an envelope for Lord Steyne. My man shan't fight him. But we had rather not take his money
It was all a mistake -- all a mistake, my dear sir
She has kep money concealed from me these ten years
She swore, last night only, she had none from Steyne. She knew it was all up, directly I found it. If she's not guilty, Pitt, she's as bad as guilty, and I'll never see her again -- never
Poor old boy
Look, Miss O
I bought it with my own money, Mamma
I thought you'd like it
Look at him
did you ever see such a chap? Lord, Lord! he'll be ordering a dressing-case next, and razors to shave with; I'm blessed if he won't
like a regular West End swell
How he DU dam and swear
prepared young noblemen and gentlemen for the Universities, the senate, and the learned professions: whose system did not embrace the degrading corporal severities still practised at the ancient places of education, and in whose family the pupils would find the elegances of refined society and the confidence and affection of a home
the Curriculum
I observed on my return home from taking the indulgence of an evening's scientific conversation with my excellent friend Doctor Bulders -- a true archaeologian, gentlemen, a true archaeologian -- that the windows of your venerated grandfather's almost princely mansion in Russell Square were illuminated as if for the purposes of festivity. Am I right in my conjecture that Mr. Osborne entertained a society of chosen spirits round his sumptuous board last night
Then those friends who had the honour of partaking of Mr. Osborne's hospitality, gentlemen, had no reason, I will lay any wager, to complain of their repast. I myself have been more than once so favoured. (By the way, Master Osborne, you came a little late this morning, and have been a defaulter in this respect more than once.) I myself, I say, gentlemen, humble as I am, have been found not unworthy to share Mr. Osborne's elegant hospitality. And though I have feasted with the great and noble of the world -- for I presume that I may call my excellent friend and patron, the Right Honourable George Earl of Bareacres, one of the number -- yet I assure you that the board of the British merchant was to the full as richly served, and his reception as gratifying and noble. Mr. Bluck, sir, we will resume, if you please, that passage of Eutropis, which was interrupted by the late arrival of Master Osborne
the Square
the Square
who knows what might happen? Don't they make a pretty little couple
It's a fat one and a thin one
Two gentlemen want to see Master Osborne
Master Osborne, I give you full permission to go and see your carriage friends -- to whom I beg you to convey the respectful compliments of myself and Mrs. Veal
My God, how like he is
Can you guess who we are, George
I don't know the other
but I should think you must be Major Dobbin
Your mother has talked to you about me -- has she
That she has
hundreds and hundreds of times
There must be classes -- there must be rich and poor
Kirk will be disappointed of his majority this time
he will expect to find himself gazetted by the time the regiment reaches home
I think Miss O'Dowd would have done for me
if we had had her on board, and when she had sunk me, she would have fallen upon you, depend upon it, and carried you in as a prize to Southampton, Jos, my boy
Married? not the least
he had heard from her: she made no mention of the marriage, and by the way, it was curious, she wrote to say that Major Dobbin was going to be married, and hoped that HE would be happy
He ain't got distangy manners, dammy
he wouldn't do at Government House, Roper, where his Lordship and Lady William was as kind to me, and shook hands with me before the whole company, and asking me at dinner to take beer with him, before the Commander-in-Chief himself; he ain't got manners, but there's something about him
Come, up! Sedley
it's time to be off; the chaise will be at the door in half an hour
Put the Major's things in twenty-three, that's his room
Roast fowl for your dinner, I suppose. You ain't got married? They said you was married -- the Scotch surgeon of yours was here. No, it was Captain Humby of the thirty-third, as was quartered with the -- th in Injee. Like any warm water? What do you come in a chay for -- ain't the coach good enough
You ain't got young
Ten years and a fever don't make a man young, John
It is you that are always young -- no, you are always old
What became of Captain Osborne's widow
Fine young fellow that. Lord, how he used to spend his money. He never came back after that day he was marched from here. He owes me three pound at this minute. Look here, I have it in my book. 'April 10, 1815, Captain Osborne: '3 pounds.' I wonder whether his father would pay me
I'm glad old John didn't forget me
She'll know me, too, I hope
May God Almighty bless her, whatever has happened
Psha! she may be gone from here
Does Mrs. Osborne live here
Lord bless me -- it's Major Dobbin
Don't you remember me
I used to call you Major Sugarplums
Ma, Pa
I'm an old friend
Don't you remember me, Mrs. Clapp, and those good cakes you used to make for tea? Don't you recollect me, Clapp? I'm George's godfather, and just come back from India
I'm very much pressed for time
and have business to-night of importance. I should like to see Mrs. Osborne tho'. Suppose Miss Polly would come with me and show me the way
Who's that
That is our curate, the Reverend Mr. Binny (a twitch from Major Dobbin), and his sister Miss B. Lord bless us, how she did use to worret us at Sunday-school; and the other lady, the little one with a cast in her eye and the handsome watch, is Mrs. Binny -- Miss Grits that was; her pa was a grocer, and kept the Little Original Gold Tea Pot in Kensington Gravel Pits. They were married last month, and are just come back from Margate. She's five thousand pound to her fortune; but her and Miss B., who made the match, have quarrelled already
Law
There they are
Suppose you were to run on and tell her
News! News
He's come! He's come
Who is come
Look there
I -- I've another arrival to announce
Mrs. Dobbin
No
Who has told you those lies? I mean, your brother Jos came in the same ship with me, and is come home to make you all happy
Papa, Papa
here are news! My brother is in England. He is come to take care of you. Here is Major Dobbin
He is very much shaken
He knows EVERYTHING
He has the most delightful parties. You who are so learned yourself, and have read so much, and are so clever and accomplished -- don't shake your head and say no -- HE always used to say you were -- you will be charmed with Mr. Veal's parties. The last Tuesday in every month. He says there is no place in the bar or the senate that Georgy may not aspire to. Look here
Think of him writing such a hand, and quoting Greek too, at his age
Oh, William
what a treasure Heaven has given me in that boy! He is the comfort of my life -- and he is the image of -- of him that's gone
Ought I to be angry with her for being faithful to him
Ought I to be jealous of my friend in the grave, or hurt that such a heart as Amelia's can love only once and for ever? Oh, George, George, how little you knew the prize you had, though
Dear friend
how good, how kind you always have been to me! See! Papa is stirring. You will go and see Georgy tomorrow, won't you
Not to-morrow
I have business
He shall find no irregularity about ME, Emmy
I don't think Jos will care about seeing those papers, Papa
You don't know anything about business, my dear
Mr. Joseph Sedley of the Honourable East India Company's Bengal Civil Service
I didn't sleep much, Emmy, my dear
I was thinking of my poor Bessy. I wish she was alive, to ride in Jos's carriage once again. She kept her own and became it very well
I don't care about owning it
Didn't you see how he shook all over when you asked if he was married and he said, 'Who told you those lies?' Oh, M'am
he never kept his eyes off you, and I'm sure he's grown grey athinking of you
I am glad he is not going to marry that Miss O'Dowd
Colonel O'Dowd never could have a sister fit for such an accomplished man as Major William
I'm glad you've kept it
I was afraid you didn't care about it
I value it more than anything I have in the world
Do you, Amelia
Do you, Amelia
Can I do otherwise?-- did not he give it me
I did not know
I have to beg your pardon for something
About what
About -- about that little square piano. I never thanked you for it when you gave it me, many, many years ago, before I was married. I thought somebody else had given it. Thank you, William
Amelia, Amelia
I did buy it for you. I loved you then as I do now. I must tell you. I think I loved you from the first minute that I saw you, when George brought me to your house, to show me the Amelia whom he was engaged to. You were but a girl, in white, with large ringlets; you came down singing -- do you remember?-- and we went to Vauxhall. Since then I have thought of but one woman in the world, and that was you. I think there is no hour in the day has passed for twelve years that I haven't thought of you. I came to tell you this before I went to India, but you did not care, and I hadn't the heart to speak. You did not care whether I stayed or went
I was very ungrateful
No, only indifferent
I have nothing to make a woman to be otherwise. I know what you are feeling now. You are hurt in your heart at the discovery about the piano, and that it came from me and not from George. I forgot, or I should never have spoken of it so. It is for me to ask your pardon for being a fool for a moment, and thinking that years of constancy and devotion might have pleaded with you
It is you who are cruel now
George is my husband, here and in heaven. How could I love any other but him? I am his now as when you first saw me, dear William. It was he who told me how good and generous you were, and who taught me to love you as a brother. Have you not been everything to me and my boy? Our dearest, truest, kindest friend and protector? Had you come a few months sooner perhaps you might have spared me that -- that dreadful parting. Oh, it nearly killed me, William -- but you didn't come, though I wished and prayed for you to come, and they took him too away from me. Isn't he a noble boy, William? Be his friend still and mine
I will not change, dear Amelia
I ask for no more than your love. I think I would not have it otherwise. Only let me stay near you and see you often
Yes, often
Damn it, we will make a man of the feller
I like him, Mamma, because he knows such lots of things; and he ain't like old Veal, who is always bragging and using such long words, don't you know? The chaps call him 'Longtail' at school. I gave him the name; ain't it capital? But Dob reads Latin like English, and French and that; and when we go out together he tells me stories about my Papa, and never about himself; though I heard Colonel Buckler, at Grandpapa's, say that he was one of the bravest officers in the army, and had distinguished himself ever so much. Grandpapa was quite surprised, and said, 'THAT feller! Why, I didn't think he could say Bo to a goose' -- but I know he could, couldn't he, Mamma
God bless my soul, you don't say so
He might almost as well be at Madras for anything WE see of him
Shall I wear the family diamonds, Jos
I wish you would let me buy you some
I should like to see any that were too good for you
Quiet in Heaven
These people are very good round about me, but they won't grieve too much when I am gone. I am very rich, and they want my inheritance -- or very poor, and they are tired of supporting me
The state of my father's health
prevents me from giving any LARGE parties this season: but if you will come in quietly at half-past six, Chutney, my boy, and fake a homely dinner with one or two of the old set -- I shall be always glad to see you
She walks into the room as silently as a sunbeam
Oh, Emmy, I've been thinking we were very unkind and unjust to you
To-morrow, success or failure won't matter much, and the sun will rise, and all the myriads of mankind go to their work or their pleasure as usual, but I shall be out of the turmoil
I am very rich; I am tolerably well known; I have lived all my life in the best society, and thank Heaven, come of a most respectable family. I have served my King and country with honour. I was in Parliament for several years, where, I may say, my speeches were listened to and pretty well received. I don't owe any man a shilling: on the contrary, I lent my old college friend, Jack Lazarus, fifty pounds, for which my executors will not press him. I leave my daughters with ten thousand pounds apiece -- very good portions for girls; I bequeath my plate and furniture, my house in Baker Street, with a handsome jointure, to my widow for her life; and my landed property, besides money in the funds, and my cellar of well-selected wine in Baker Street, to my son. I leave twenty pound a year to my valet; and I defy any man after I have gone to find anything against my character
I am a poor blighted, disappointed old fellow, and have made an utter failure through life. I was not endowed either with brains or with good fortune, and confess that I have committed a hundred mistakes and blunders. I own to having forgotten my duty many a time. I can't pay what I owe. On my last bed I lie utterly helpless and humble, and I pray forgiveness for my weakness and throw myself, with a contrite heart, at the feet of the Divine Mercy
You see
what comes of merit, and industry, and judicious speculations, and that. Look at me and my banker's account. Look at your poor Grandfather Sedley and his failure. And yet he was a better man than I was, this day twenty years -- a better man, I should say, by ten thousand pound
The marriage
was very much my doing. I thought my poor friend had gone so far that retreat from his engagement would have been dishonour to him and death to Mrs. Osborne, and I could do no less, when she was left without resources, than give what money I could spare to maintain her
Major D
you did me a great injury; but give me leave to tell you, sir, you are an honest feller. There's my hand, sir, though I little thought that my flesh and blood was living on you
He was such a noble fellow
And Georgy is so like him
He's so like him that he makes me tremble sometimes
You'd have been glad enough to git him for yourself, Miss O. But them grapes are sour. Ha! ha! Major William is a fine feller
That he is, Grandpapa
Indeed he is
Your dear father always said so. He is one of the best and most upright of men
I say, Dob
there's such an uncommon nice girl wants to marry you. She's plenty of tin; she wears a front; and she scolds the servants from morning till night
Who is it
It's Aunt O
Grandpapa said so. And I say, Dob, how prime it would be to have you for my uncle
It's not respectful, sir, of you younkers to be imitating of your relations. Miss O., when you go out adriving to-day, leave my card upon Mr. Sedley, do you hear? There's no quarrel betwigst me and him anyhow
It is some of Sedley's wine
I've had it a long time, and paid a good figure for it, too
at the old chap's sale
You don't know what she endured, sir
and I hope and trust you will be reconciled to her. If she took your son away from you, she gave hers to you; and however much you loved your George, depend on it, she loved hers ten times more
By God, you are a good feller, sir
How much money had he left to that boy? Not half, surely? Surely share and share alike between the three
the widow of my beloved son, George Osborne
Major William Dobbin, my beloved son's friend
I hereby thank him heartily for his love and regard for them, and beseech him to accept such a sum as may be sufficient to purchase his commission as a Lieutenant-Colonel, or to be disposed of in any way he may think fit
You are mine, and mine only, now and forever
what them there Russell Square coachmen knew about town, and whether they was fit to sit on a box before a lady
poor dear girl
Look here, Mother
here's a G.O. scratched on the glass with a diamond, I never saw it before, I never did it
It was your father's room long before you were born, George
He is just of the age for Rosa
Rosa, go and kiss your dear cousin
Don't you know me, George? I am your aunt
I know you well enough
Take me to your dear mamma, you droll child
She seems good-natured but insipid
that Major seems to be particularly epris
She wants ton sadly
My dear creature, you never will be able to form her
She is dreadfully ignorant or indifferent
I asked her if she thought that it was in 1836, according to Mr. Jowls, or in 1839, according to Mr. Wapshot, that the Pope was to fall: and she said --'Poor Pope! I hope not -- What has he done
She is my brother's widow, my dear friends
and as such I think we're all bound to give her every attention and instruction on entering into the world. You may fancy there can be no MERCENARY motives in those whose DISAPPOINTMENTS are well known
That poor dear Mrs. Bullock
she is always scheming and managing. She wants Mrs. Osborne's account to be taken from our house to hers -- and the way in which she coaxes that boy and makes him sit by that blear-eyed little Rosa is perfectly ridiculous
I wish Glowry was choked with her Man of Sin and her Battle of Armageddon
A qui cette voiture la
C'est a Kirsch je bense -- je l'ai vu toute a l'heure -- qui brenoit des sangviches dans la voiture
Nous allons avoir une belle traversee, Monsieur George
D --- your French
where's the biscuits, ay
Those people seem to interest you a good deal
What a heavenly day
I hope we shall have a calm passage
If you had made the voyages we have
you wouldn't much care about the weather
Herr Graf Lord von Sedley nebst Begleitung aus London
Our Minister
It is one's nature to sing and the other's to hoot
and with such a sweet voice as you have yourself, you must belong to the Bulbul faction
Gayd, it really does one good to see a woman caypable of that stayt of excaytement
Nichts, nichts, mein Florestan
Look at that infernal sly-boots of a Tapeworm
Wherever there's a pretty woman he always twists himself in
Have I the honour of addressing myself to Mrs. Dobbin
By Jove, that was a good 'un
This lady is Mrs. George Osborne
and this is her brother, Mr. Sedley, a distinguished officer of the Bengal Civil Service: permit me to introduce him to your lordship
Are you going to stop in Pumpernickel
It is a dull place, but we want some nice people, and we would try and make it SO agreeable to you. Mr.-- Ahum -- Mrs.-- Oho. I shall do myself the honour of calling upon you to-morrow at your inn
And our Minister seems a most delightful and affable person
With such a representative, and -- and a good medical man, I can fancy the place to be most eligible. Good-night, gentlemen
How very affable his Lordship is
How very kind of his Lordship to say he would send his medical man! Kirsch, you will carry our cards to the Count de Schlusselback directly; the Major and I will have the greatest pleasure in paying our respects at Court as soon as possible. Put out my uniform, Kirsch -- both our uniforms. It is a mark of politeness which every English gentleman ought to show to the countries which he visits to pay his respects to the sovereigns of those countries as to the representatives of his own
Dere came here last year
Sheneral Bulkeley, an English Sheneral, tvice so pic as you, sir. I sent him back qvite tin after tree months, and he danced vid Baroness Glauber at the end of two
The interests of Great Britain in this place, and throughout the whole of Germany, are perilled by the continuance in office of the present French envoy; this man is of a character so infamous that he will stick at no falsehood, or hesitate at no crime, to attain his ends. He poisons the mind of the Court against the English minister, represents the conduct of Great Britain in the most odious and atrocious light, and is unhappily backed by a minister whose ignorance and necessities are as notorious as his influence is fatal
He is covered with ribbons like a prize cart- horse
Let him have the cordons; but with whom is the victory
Monsieur n'est pas joueur
Non, Madame
You have nevare played -- will you do me a littl' favor
What is it
Play this for me, if you please; put it on any number, any number
Thank you
thank you. What is your name
My name's Osborne
Laissez-moi tranquille
ll faut s'amuser, parbleu. Je ne suis pas au service de Monsieur
Hadn't you better come, Jos
with George and me
I'll stop and go home with that rascal, Kirsch
Did you play
No
Give me your word of honour as a gentleman that you never will
Why
it seems very good fun
Come and give me good luck
Thank you
Ah, really, well now, God bless my soul. I'm very fortunate; I'm sure to give you good fortune
Do you play much
I put a Nap or two down
Yes; ay nap after dinner
You do not play to win. No more do I. I play to forget, but I cannot. I cannot forget old times, monsieur. Your little nephew is the image of his father; and you -- you are not changed -- but yes, you are. Everybody changes, everybody forgets; nobody has any heart
Good God, who is it
Can't you guess, Joseph Sedley
You have forgotten me
Good heavens! Mrs. Crawley
Rebecca
I am stopping at the Elephant
Ask for Madame de Raudon. I saw my dear Amelia to-day; how pretty she looked, and how happy! So do you! Everybody but me, who am wretched, Joseph Sedley
Come away
Come with me a little -- we are old friends, are we not, dear Mr. Sedley
Oh, Aunt Jane, you are my mother
and not -- and not that one
If HE'D been here
those cowards would never have dared to insult me
monsieur
He and her Rawdon were of the same age, and so like
sweet friend
If you were a man of any spirit, Mr. Eagles, you would box the wretch's ears the next time you see him at the Club
The women here are as amusing as those in May Fair
only, their dresses are not quite so fresh. The men wear cleaned gloves, and are sad rogues, certainly, but they are not worse than Jack This and Tom That. The mistress of the house is a little vulgar, but I don't think she is so vulgar as Lady
That poor Cupid
how dreadfully he was in love with me, and what a fool he was! I wonder whether little Emmy is alive. It was a good little creature; and that fat brother of hers. I have his funny fat picture still among my papers. They were kind simple people
That woman looks stupid and ill-humoured
I am sure she can't amuse him. No, he must be bored by her -- he never was by me
I wonder whether he will know me
Come away into the supper-room, Mrs. R
seeing these nobs grubbing away has made me peckish too. Let's go and try the old governor's champagne
I knew that Madame was here
I followed her from her hotel. I have some advice to give Madame
From the Marquis of Steyne
No
it is from me. Rome is very unwholesome
Not at this season, Monsieur Fiche -- not till after Easter
I tell Madame it is unwholesome now. There is always malaria for some people. That cursed marsh wind kills many at all seasons. Look, Madame Crawley, you were always bon enfant, and I have an interest in you, parole d'honneur. Be warned. Go away from Rome, I tell you -- or you will be ill and die
What! assassinate poor little me
How romantic! Does my lord carry bravos for couriers, and stilettos in the fourgons? Bah! I will stay, if but to plague him. I have those who will defend me whilst I am here
Defend you
and who? The Major, the Captain, any one of those gambling men whom Madame sees would take her life for a hundred louis. We know things about Major Loder (he is no more a Major than I am my Lord the Marquis) which would send him to the galleys or worse. We know everything and have friends everywhere. We know whom you saw at Paris, and what relations you found there. Yes, Madame may stare, but we do. How was it that no minister on the Continent would receive Madame? She has offended somebody: who never forgives -- whose rage redoubled when he saw you. He was like a madman last night when he came home. Madame de Belladonna made him a scene about you and fired off in one of her furies
Oh, it was Madame de Belladonna, was it
No -- she does not matter -- she is always jealous. I tell you it was Monseigneur. You did wrong to show yourself to him. And if you stay here you will repent it. Mark my words. Go. Here is my lord's carriage
Monseigneur has never recovered the shock of that night, never
That was a consolation at any rate
In him
the poor and the Fine Arts have lost a beneficent patron, society one of its most brilliant ornaments, and England one of her loftiest patriots and statesmen
Go away
I expect somebody; I expect my grandpapa. He mustn't see you there
Angel Englanderinn
do take compassion upon us. Make an appointment. Dine with me and Fritz at the inn in the park. We will have roast pheasants and porter, plum-pudding and French wine. We shall die if you don't
That we will
Newmero kattervang dooze, si vous plait
Quater fang tooce
It's you
How I have been waiting for you! Stop! not yet -- in one minute you shall come in
Come in
How little years have changed you
I should have known you anywhere. What a comfort it is amongst strangers to see once more the frank honest face of an old friend
I should have known you anywhere
a woman never forgets some things. And you were the first man I ever -- I ever saw
Was I really
God bless my soul, you -- you don't say so
When I came with your sister from Chiswick, I was scarcely more than a child
Is not this a strange place
The little minx, has she come to light again
That little devil brings mischief wherever she goes
Who knows what sort of life she has been leading? And what business has she here abroad and alone? Don't tell me about persecutors and enemies; an honest woman always has friends and never is separated from her family. Why has she left her husband? He may have been disreputable and wicked, as you say. He always was. I remember the confounded blackleg and the way in which he used to cheat and hoodwink poor George. Wasn't there a scandal about their separation? I think I heard something
Well, well; let's ask Mrs. George
Only let us go and consult her. I suppose you will allow that she is a good judge at any rate, and knows what is right in such matters
Hm! Emmy is very well
Very well? By Gad, sir, she's the finest lady I ever met in my life
I say at once, let us go and ask her if this woman ought to be visited or not -- I will be content with her verdict
Amelia, my dear
I have just had the most extraordinary -- yes -- God bless my soul! the most extraordinary adventure -- an old friend -- yes, a most interesting old friend of yours, and I may say in old times, has just arrived here, and I should like you to see her
Her
who is it? Major Dobbin, if you please not to break my scissors
and whom you have no cause to love
It is Rebecca, I'm sure it is Rebecca
You are right; you always are
Don't let me see her
I couldn't see her
I told you so
She is very unhappy, and -- and that sort of thing
She is very poor and unprotected, and has been ill -- exceedingly ill -- and that scoundrel of a husband has deserted her
Ah
She hasn't a friend in the world
and she said she thought she might trust in you. She's so miserable, Emmy. She has been almost mad with grief. Her story quite affected me --'pon my word and honour, it did -- never was such a cruel persecution borne so angelically, I may say. Her family has been most cruel to her
Poor creature
And if she can get no friend, she says she thinks she'll die
God bless my soul! do you know that she tried to kill herself? She carries laudanum with her -- I saw the bottle in her room -- such a miserable little room -- at a third-rate house, the Elephant, up in the roof at the top of all. I went there
She's beside herself with grief
The agonies that woman has endured are quite frightful to hear of. She had a little boy, of the same age as Georgy
Yes, yes, I think I remember
Well
The most beautiful child ever seen
a perfect angel, who adored his mother. The ruffians tore him shrieking out of her arms, and have never allowed him to see her
Dear Joseph
let us go and see her this minute
It is number 92, up four pair of stairs
Gracious lady, gracious lady
Who is it
torn from her arms shrieking
And so they took your darling child from you
Oh, Rebecca, my poor dear suffering friend, I know what it is to lose a boy, and to feel for those who have lost one. But please Heaven yours will be restored to you, as a merciful merciful Providence has brought me back mine
The child, my child? Oh, yes, my agonies were frightful
My agonies
were terrible (I hope she won't sit down on the bottle) when they took him away from me; I thought I should die; but I fortunately had a brain fever, during which my doctor gave me up, and -- and I recovered, and -- and here I am, poor and friendless
How old is he
Eleven
Eleven
Why, he was born the same year with Georgy, who is
I know, I know
Grief has made me forget so many things, dearest Amelia. I am very much changed: half-wild sometimes. He was eleven when they took him away from me. Bless his sweet face; I have never seen it again
Was he fair or dark
Show me his hair
Not to-day, love -- some other time, when my trunks arrive from Leipzig, whence I came to this place -- and a little drawing of him, which I made in happy days
Poor Becky, poor Becky
You will see my Georgy
Philister
The title Englanderinn seems to be en bays de gonnoisance
After the fat grandfather went away, there came a pretty little compatriot. I heard them chattering and whimpering together in the little woman's chamber
We must take the tickets for her concert
Hast thou any money, Max
Bah
the concert is a concert in nubibus. Hans said that she advertised one at Leipzig, and the Burschen took many tickets. But she went off without singing. She said in the coach yesterday that her pianist had fallen ill at Dresden. She cannot sing, it is my belief: her voice is as cracked as thine, O thou beer-soaking Renowner
It is cracked; I hear her trying out of her window a schrecklich. English ballad, called 'De Rose upon de Balgony
Saufen and singen go not together
No, thou shalt take none of her tickets. She won money at the trente and quarante last night. I saw her: she made a little English boy play for her. We will spend thy money there or at the theatre, or we will treat her to French wine or Cognac in the Aurelius Garden, but the tickets we will not buy. What sayest thou? Yet, another mug of beer
The little devil is at her old tricks
I have been mixing in a foolish intrigue with a woman
I am glad we were marched away. If I drop, I hope Emmy will never know of that business. I wish to God it had never been begun
And so this devil is still going on with her intrigues
I wish she were a hundred miles from here. She brings mischief wherever she goes
High, Dobbin
Why did you not wait for me, sir, to escort me downstairs
I couldn't stand up in the passage
that instant
Well
The poor dear creature, how she has suffered
God bless my soul, yes
She may have Payne's room, who can go upstairs
She may have Payne's room
Why, you don't mean to say you are going to have that woman into the house
Of course we are
Don't be angry and break the furniture, Major Dobbin. Of course we are going to have her here
Of course, my dear
The poor creature, after all her sufferings
the poor dear thing! quite alone and absolutely forced to give lessons in singing to get her bread -- and not have her here
Take lessons, my dear Mrs. George
but don't have her in the house. I implore you don't
Pooh
You who are always good and kind -- always used to be at any rate -- I'm astonished at you, Major William
Why, what is the moment to help her but when she is so miserable? Now is the time to be of service to her. The oldest friend I ever had, and not
She was not always your friend, Amelia
For shame, Major Dobbin
To allude to THAT
Oh, it was cruel of him to remind me of it
It was cruel of him. If I had forgiven it, ought he to have spoken? No. And it is from his own lips that I know how wicked and groundless my jealousy was; and that you were pure -- oh, yes, you were pure, my saint in heaven
Hullo! where's Dob
Major Dobbin is dining out, I suppose
This is my boy, Rebecca
Dear boy
he is just like my
I say
What do you say
You're the lady I saw in the mask at the Rouge et Noir
Hush! you little sly creature
Your uncle was there too, and Mamma mustn't know
Oh, no -- not by no means
You see we are quite good friends already
I -- I beg your pardon, m'am
but I am bound to tell you that it is not as your friend that I am come here now
Pooh! damn; don't let us have this sort of thing
I wonder what Major Dobbin has to say against Rebecca
I will not have this sort of thing in my house
I say I will not have it; and Dobbin, I beg, sir, you'll stop it
Dear friend
do hear what Major Dobbin has to say against me
I will not hear it, I say
We are only two women
You can speak now, sir
This manner towards me is one which scarcely becomes you, Amelia
nor I believe am I guilty of habitual harshness to women. It is not a pleasure to me to do the duty which I am come to do
Pray proceed with it quickly, if you please, Major Dobbin
I came to say -- and as you stay, Mrs. Crawley, I must say it in your presence -- that I think you -- you ought not to form a member of the family of my friends. A lady who is separated from her husband, who travels not under her own name, who frequents public gaming-tables
It was to the ball I went
is not a fit companion for Mrs. Osborne and her son
and I may add that there are people here who know you, and who profess to know that regarding your conduct about which I don't even wish to speak before -- before Mrs. Osborne
Yours is a very modest and convenient sort of calumny, Major Dobbin
You leave me under the weight of an accusation which, after all, is unsaid. What is it? Is it unfaithfulness to my husband? I scorn it and defy anybody to prove it -- I defy you, I say. My honour is as untouched as that of the bitterest enemy who ever maligned me. Is it of being poor, forsaken, wretched, that you accuse me? Yes, I am guilty of those faults, and punished for them every day. Let me go, Emmy. It is only to suppose that I have not met you, and I am no worse to-day than I was yesterday. It is only to suppose that the night is over and the poor wanderer is on her way. Don't you remember the song we used to sing in old, dear old days? I have been wandering ever since then -- a poor castaway, scorned for being miserable, and insulted because I am alone. Let me go: my stay here interferes with the plans of this gentleman
Indeed it does, madam
If I have any authority in this house
Authority, none
Rebecca, you stay with me. I won't desert you because you have been persecuted, or insult you because -- because Major Dobbin chooses to do so. Come away, dear
Will you stay a moment and speak to me
He wishes to speak to you away from me
Upon my honour it is not about you that I am going to speak
Come back, Amelia
I was confused when I spoke just now
and I misused the word authority
You did
At least I have claims to be heard
It is generous to remind me of our obligations to you
The claims I mean are those left me by George's father
Yes, and you insulted his memory. You did yesterday. You know you did. And I will never forgive you. Never
You don't mean that, Amelia
You don't mean that these words, uttered in a hurried moment, are to weigh against a whole life's devotion? I think that George's memory has not been injured by the way in which I have dealt with it, and if we are come to bandying reproaches, I at least merit none from his widow and the mother of his son. Reflect, afterwards when -- when you are at leisure, and your conscience will withdraw this accusation. It does even now
It is not that speech of yesterday
which moves you. That is but the pretext, Amelia, or I have loved you and watched you for fifteen years in vain. Have I not learned in that time to read all your feelings and look into your thoughts? I know what your heart is capable of: it can cling faithfully to a recollection and cherish a fancy, but it can't feel such an attachment as mine deserves to mate with, and such as I would have won from a woman more generous than you. No, you are not worthy of the love which I have devoted to you. I knew all along that the prize I had set my life on was not worth the winning; that I was a fool, with fond fancies, too, bartering away my all of truth and ardour against your little feeble remnant of love. I will bargain no more: I withdraw. I find no fault with you. You are very good- natured, and have done your best, but you couldn't -- you couldn't reach up to the height of the attachment which I bore you, and which a loftier soul than yours might have been proud to share. Good-bye, Amelia! I have watched your struggle. Let it end. We are both weary of it
Am I to understand then, that you are going -- away, William
I went once before
and came back after twelve years. We were young then, Amelia. Good-bye. I have spent enough of my life at this play
What a noble heart that man has
and how shamefully that woman plays with it
Ah
Old Dob
Hullo
there's Dob's trap -- they are bringing it out of the court-yard
Hullo
there's Francis coming out with the portmanteaus, and Kunz, the one-eyed postilion, coming down the market with three schimmels. Look at his boots and yellow jacket -- ain't he a rum one? Why -- they're putting the horses to Dob's carriage. Is he going anywhere
Yes
he is going on a journey
Going on a journey; and when is he coming back
He is -- not coming back
Not coming back
Stay here, sir
Stay, Georgy
By Jove, I will go
Give him this
brushing their 'airs
Einsam bin ich nicht alleine
William Dobbin, -- th Reg
Why, when your papa was a little boy
he often told me that it was William who defended him against a tyrant at the school where they were; and their friendship never ceased from that day until the last, when your dear father fell
Did Dobbin kill the man who killed Papa
I'm sure he did, or he would if he could have caught him, wouldn't he, Mother? When I'm in the Army, won't I hate the French?-- that's all
God bless my soul, it is my portrait
I bought it
I went to see if I could be of any use to my kind friends. I have never parted with that picture -- I never will
Won't you
Did you really now value it for my sake
You know I did, well enough
but why speak -- why think -- why look back! It is too late now
Arrival of the -- th regiment. Gravesend, June 20.-- The Ramchunder, East Indiaman, came into the river this morning, having on board 14 officers, and 132 rank and file of this gallant corps. They have been absent from England fourteen years, having been embarked the year after Waterloo, in which glorious conflict they took an active part, and having subsequently distinguished themselves in the Burmese war. The veteran colonel, Sir Michael O'Dowd, K.C.B., with his lady and sister, landed here yesterday, with Captains Posky, Stubble, Macraw, Malony; Lieutenants Smith, Jones, Thompson, F. Thomson; Ensigns Hicks and Grady; the band on the pier playing the national anthem, and the crowd loudly cheering the gallant veterans as they went into Wayte's hotel, where a sumptuous banquet was provided for the defenders of Old England. During the repast, which we need not say was served up in Wayte's best style, the cheering continued so enthusiastically that Lady O'Dowd and the Colonel came forward to the balcony and drank the healths of their fellow- countrymen in a bumper of Wayte's best claret
It was myself I deluded and persisted in cajoling; had she been worthy of the love I gave her, she would have returned it long ago. It was a fond mistake. Isn't the whole course of life made up of such? And suppose I had won her, should I not have been disenchanted the day after my victory? Why pine, or be ashamed of my defeat
I'll go into harness again
and do my duty in that state of life in which it has pleased Heaven to place me. I will see that the buttons of the recruits are properly bright and that the sergeants make no mistakes in their accounts. I will dine at mess and listen to the Scotch surgeon telling his stories. When I am old and broken, I will go on half-pay, and my old sisters shall scold me. I have geliebt und gelebet, as the girl in 'Wallenstein' says. I am done. Pay the bills and get me a cigar: find out what there is at the play to-night, Francis; to-morrow we cross by the Batavier
Old buck
What can they mean
I heard the Major say to Mrs. Crawley yesterday, 'No, no, Becky, you shan't keep the old buck to yourself. We must have the bones in, or, dammy, I'll split.' What could the Major mean, Mamma
Major! don't call him Major
I'm sure I can't tell what he meant
She mustn't stop here
She must go away, the silly little fool. She is still whimpering after that gaby of a husband -- dead (and served right!) these fifteen years. She shan't marry either of these men. It's too bad of Loder. No; she shall marry the bamboo cane, I'll settle it this very night
Thank you
Listen to me, Amelia
I want to talk to you. You must go away from here and from the impertinences of these men. I won't have you harassed by them: and they will insult you if you stay. I tell you they are rascals: men fit to send to the hulks. Never mind how I know them. I know everybody. Jos can't protect you; he is too weak and wants a protector himself. You are no more fit to live in the world than a baby in arms. You must marry, or you and your precious boy will go to ruin. You must have a husband, you fool; and one of the best gentlemen I ever saw has offered you a hundred times, and you have rejected him, you silly, heartless, ungrateful little creature
I tried -- I tried my best, indeed I did, Rebecca
Couldn't forget HIM
that selfish humbug, that low-bred cockney dandy, that padded booby, who had neither wit, nor manners, nor heart, and was no more to be compared to your friend with the bamboo cane than you are to Queen Elizabeth. Why, the man was weary of you, and would have jilted you, but that Dobbin forced him to keep his word. He owned it to me. He never cared for you. He used to sneer about you to me, time after time, and made love to me the week after he married you
It's false! It's false! Rebecca
Look there, you fool
You know his handwriting. He wrote that to me -- wanted me to run away with him -- gave it me under your nose, the day before he was shot -- and served him right
There is nothing to forbid me now
I may love him with all my heart now. Oh, I will, I will, if he will but let me and forgive me
And now let us get pen and ink and write to him to come this minute
I -- I wrote to him this morning
Un biglietto
eccolo qua
I hope he won't cross in such weather
I bet ten to one he does
Look, Mother, there's the smoke of the steamer
How she does pitch
There goes a wave slap over her bows. There's only two people on deck besides the steersman. There's a man lying down, and a -- chap in a -- cloak with a -- Hooray!-- it's Dob, by Jingo
Dakruoen gelasasa
It was time you sent for me, dear Amelia
You will never go again, William
No, never
Particular business
I knew it all along
but could I use that weapon against the poor fellow's memory? It was that which made me suffer so when you
Never speak of that day again
If you hadn't sent for me
who knows what Glorvina's name might be now
But -- but -- oh, for God's sake, do come and live near me, and -- and -- see me sometimes
We can't, Jos
Considering the circumstances, Amelia can't visit you
I swear to you -- I swear to you on the Bible
that she is as innocent as a child, as spotless as your own wife
It may be so
but Emmy can't come to you. Be a man, Jos: break off this disreputable connection. Come home to your family. We hear your affairs are involved
Involved
Who has told such calumnies? All my money is placed out most advantageously. Mrs. Crawley -- that is -- I mean -- it is laid out to the best interest
You are not in debt, then? Why did you insure your life
I thought -- a little present to her -- in case anything happened; and you know my health is so delicate -- common gratitude you know -- and I intend to leave all my money to you -- and I can spare it out of my income, indeed I can
He would go back to India. He would do anything, only he must have time: they mustn't say anything to Mrs. Crawley -- she'd -- she'd kill me if she knew it. You don't know what a terrible woman she is
Then, why not come away with me
He would see Dobbin again in the morning; he must on no account say that he had been there. He must go now. Becky might come in
sister Amelia, wife of, &amp;c., and his friend and invaluable attendant during sickness, Rebecca, wife of Lieutenant-Colonel Rawdon Crawley, C.B
Fonder than he is of me
</text>
