<text>
Mr. Heathcliff
Thrushcross Grange is my own, sir
I should not allow any one to inconvenience me, if I could hinder it - walk in
Go to the Deuce
Joseph, take Mr. Lockwood's horse; and bring up some wine
Here we have the whole establishment of domestics, I suppose
No wonder the grass grows up between the flags, and cattle are the only hedge- cutters
The Lord help us
1500
Hareton Earnshaw
You'd better let the dog alone
She's not accustomed to be spoiled - not kept for a pet
Joseph
What the devil is the matter
What the devil, indeed
The herd of possessed swine could have had no worse spirits in them than those animals of yours, sir. You might as well leave a stranger with a brood of tigers
They won't meddle with persons who touch nothing
The dogs do right to be vigilant. Take a glass of wine
No, thank you
Not bitten, are you
If I had been, I would have set my signet on the biter
Come, come
you are flurried, Mr. Lockwood. Here, take a little wine. Guests are so exceedingly rare in this house that I and my dogs, I am willing to own, hardly know how to receive them. Your health, sir
Wretched inmates
you deserve perpetual isolation from your species for your churlish inhospitality. At least, I would not keep my doors barred in the day-time. I don't care - I will get in
What are ye for
T' maister's down i' t' fowld. Go round by th' end o' t' laith, if ye went to spake to him
Is there nobody inside to open the door
There's nobbut t' missis; and shoo'll not oppen 't an ye mak' yer flaysome dins till neeght
Why? Cannot you tell her whom I am, eh, Joseph
Nor-ne me! I'll hae no hend wi't
missis
Rough weather
I'm afraid, Mrs. Heathcliff, the door must bear the consequence of your servants' leisure attendance: I had hard work to make them hear me
Sit down
He'll be in soon
A beautiful animal
Do you intend parting with the little ones, madam
They are not mine
Ah, your favourites are among these
A strange choice of favourites
You should not have come out
I don't want your help
I can get them for myself
I beg your pardon
Were you asked to tea
I shall be glad to have a cup
Were you asked
No
You are the proper person to ask me
You see, sir, I am come, according to promise
and I fear I shall be weather-bound for half an hour, if you can afford me shelter during that space
Half an hour
I wonder you should select the thick of a snow-storm to ramble about in. Do you know that you run a risk of being lost in the marshes? People familiar with these moors often miss their road on such evenings; and I can tell you there is no chance of a change at present
Perhaps I can get a guide among your lads, and he might stay at the Grange till morning - could you spare me one
No, I could not
Oh, indeed! Well, then, I must trust to my own sagacity
Umph
Are you going to mak' the tea
Is HE to have any
Get it ready, will you
Now, sir, bring forward your chair
It is strange
My amiable lady
Where is she - my amiable lady
Mrs. Heathcliff, your wife, I mean
Well, yes - oh, you would intimate that her spirit has taken the post of ministering angel, and guards the fortunes of Wuthering Heights, even when her body is gone. Is that it
The clown at my elbow, who is drinking his tea out of a basin and eating his broad with unwashed hands, may be her husband: Heathcliff junior, of course. Here is the consequence of being buried alive: she has thrown herself away upon that boor from sheer ignorance that better individuals existed! A sad pity - I must beware how I cause her to regret her choice
Mrs. Heathcliff is my daughter-in-law
Ah, certainly - I see now: you are the favoured possessor of the beneficent fairy
Unhappy in your conjectures, sir
we neither of us have the privilege of owning your good fairy; her mate is dead. I said she was my daughter-in-law: therefore, she must have married my son
Not my son, assuredly
My name is Hareton Earnshaw
and I'd counsel you to respect it
I've shown no disrespect
I don't think it possible for me to get home now without a guide
The roads will be buried already; and, if they were bare, I could scarcely distinguish a foot in advance
Hareton, drive those dozen sheep into the barn porch. They'll be covered if left in the fold all night: and put a plank before them
How must I do
Aw wonder how yah can faishion to stand thear i' idleness un war, when all on 'ems goan out! Bud yah're a nowt, and it's no use talking - yah'll niver mend o'yer ill ways, but goa raight to t' divil, like yer mother afore ye
You scandalous old hypocrite
Are you not afraid of being carried away bodily, whenever you mention the devil's name? I warn you to refrain from provoking me, or I'll ask your abduction as a special favour! Stop! look here, Joseph
I'll show you how far I've progressed in the Black Art: I shall soon be competent to make a clear house of it. The red cow didn't die by chance; and your rheumatism can hardly be reckoned among providential visitations
Oh, wicked, wicked
may the Lord deliver us from evil
No, reprobate! you are a castaway - be off, or I'll hurt you seriously! I'll have you all modelled in wax and clay! and the first who passes the limits I fix shall - I'll not say what he shall be done to - but, you'll see! Go, I'm looking at you
Mrs. Heathcliff
you must excuse me for troubling you. I presume, because, with that face, I'm sure you cannot help being good-hearted. Do point out some landmarks by which I may know my way home: I have no more idea how to get there than you would have how to get to London
Take the road you came
It is brief advice, but as sound as I can give
Then, if you hear of me being discovered dead in a bog or a pit full of snow, your conscience won't whisper that it is partly your fault
How so? I cannot escort you. They wouldn't let me go to the end of the garden wall
YOU! I should be sorry to ask you to cross the threshold, for my convenience, on such a night
I want you to tell me my way, not to SHOW it: or else to persuade Mr. Heathcliff to give me a guide
Who? There is himself, Earnshaw, Zillah, Joseph and I. Which would you have
Are there no boys at the farm
No; those are all
Then, it follows that I am compelled to stay
That you may settle with your host. I have nothing to do with it
I hope it will be a lesson to you to make no more rash journeys on these hills
As to staying here, I don't keep accommodations for visitors: you must share a bed with Hareton or Joseph, if you do
I can sleep on a chair in this room
No, no! A stranger is a stranger, be he rich or poor: it will not suit me to permit any one the range of the place while I am off guard
I'll go with him as far as the park
You'll go with him to hell
And who is to look after the horses, eh
A man's life is of more consequence than one evening's neglect of the horses: somebody must go
Not at your command
If you set store on him, you'd better be quiet
Then I hope his ghost will haunt you; and I hope Mr. Heathcliff will never get another tenant till the Grange is a ruin
Hearken, hearken, shoo's cursing on 'em
Maister, maister, he's staling t' lanthern
Hey, Gnasher! Hey, dog! Hey Wolf, holld him, holld him
Well, Mr. Earnshaw
Catherine Earnshaw, her book
An awful Sunday
Maister Hindley!" shouted our chaplain. " Maister, coom hither! Miss Cathy's riven th' back off 'Th' Helmet o' Salvation
T' Brooad Way to Destruction
Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth, and seizing one of us by the collar, and the other by the arm, hurled both into the back-kitchen; where, Joseph asseverated, "owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living: and, so comforted, we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book, and a pot of ink from a shelf, and pushed the house-door ajar to give me light, and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes; but my companion is impatient, and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywoman's cloak, and have a scamper on the moors, under its shelter. A pleasant suggestion - and then, if the surly old man come in, he may believe his prophecy verified - we cannot be damper, or colder, in the rain than we are here
How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so
Seventy Times Seven, and the First of the Seventy-First
Seventy Times Seven
First of the Seventy-First
FIRST OF THE SEVENTY-FIRST
Sir
sitting here within these four walls, at one stretch, I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to depart - Seventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninety-first is too much. Fellow-martyrs, have at him! Drag him down, and crush him to atoms, that the place which knows him may know him no more
THOU ART THE MAN
Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visage - seventy times seven did I take counsel with my soul - Lo, this is human weakness: this also may be absolved! The First of the Seventy-First is come. Brethren, execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints
I must stop it, nevertheless
Let me in - let me in
Who are you
Catherine Linton
I'm come home: I'd lost my way on the moor
Let me in
How can I
Let ME go, if you want me to let you in
Begone
I'll never let you in, not if you beg for twenty years
It is twenty years
twenty years. I've been a waif for twenty years
Is any one here
It is only your guest, sir
I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep, owing to a frightful nightmare. I'm sorry I disturbed you
Oh, God confound you, Mr. Lockwood! I wish you were at the - ' commenced my host, setting the candle on a chair, because he found it impossible to hold it steady. 'And who showed you up into this room
Who was it? I've a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment
It was your servant Zillah
I should not care if you did, Mr. Heathcliff; she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted, at my expense. Well, it is - swarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up, I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den
What do you mean
and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night, since you ARE here; but, for heaven's sake! don't repeat that horrid noise: nothing could excuse it, unless you were having your throat cut
If the little fiend had got in at the window, she probably would have strangled me
I'm not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabez Branderham akin to you on the mother's side? And that minx, Catherine Linton, or Earnshaw, or however she was called - she must have been a changeling - wicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years: a just punishment for her mortal transgressions, I've no doubt
perusing those old volumes
What CAN you mean by talking in this way to ME
How - how DARE you, under my roof? - God! he's mad to speak so
Always at nine in winter, and rise at four
Mr. Lockwood
you may go into my room: you'll only be in the way, coming down- stairs so early: and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me
And for me, too
I'll walk in the yard till daylight, and then I'll be off; and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. I'm now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society, be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself
Delightful company
Take the candle, and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard, though, the dogs are unchained; and the house - Juno mounts sentinel there, and - nay, you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But, away with you! I'll come in two minutes
Come in! come in
Cathy, do come. Oh, do - ONCE more! Oh! my heart's darling! hear me THIS time, Catherine, at last
good-morning
And you, you worthless - ' he broke out as I entered, turning to his daughter-in-law, and employing an epithet as harmless as duck, or sheep, but generally represented by a dash - . 'There you are, at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their bread - you live on my charity! Put your trash away, and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sight - do you hear, damnable jade
I'll put my trash away, because you can make me if I refuse
But I'll not do anything, though you should swear your tongue out, except what I please
You have lived here a considerable time
did you not say sixteen years
Eighteen, sir: I came when the mistress was married, to wait on her; after she died, the master retained me for his housekeeper
Indeed
Ah, times are greatly changed since then
Yes
you've seen a good many alterations, I suppose
I have: and troubles too
Oh, I'll turn the talk on my landlord's family
A good subject to start! And that pretty girl-widow, I should like to know her history: whether she be a native of the country, or, as is more probable, an exotic that the surly INDIGENAE will not recognise for kin
Is he not rich enough to keep the estate in good order
Rich, sir
He has nobody knows what money, and every year it increases. Yes, yes, he's rich enough to live in a finer house than this: but he's very near - close-handed; and, if he had meant to flit to Thrushcross Grange, as soon as he heard of a good tenant he could not have borne to miss the chance of getting a few hundreds more. It is strange people should be so greedy, when they are alone in the world
He had a son, it seems
Yes, he had one - he is dead
And that young lady, Mrs. Heathcliff, is his widow
Yes
Where did she come from originally
Why, sir, she is my late master's daughter: Catherine Linton was her maiden name. I nursed her, poor thing! I did wish Mr. Heathcliff would remove here, and then we might have been together again
What! Catherine Linton
I continued, 'my predecessor's name was Linton
It was
And who is that Earnshaw: Hareton Earnshaw, who lives with Mr. Heathcliff? Are they relations
No; he is the late Mrs. Linton's nephew
The young lady's cousin, then
Yes; and her husband was her cousin also: one on the mother's, the other on the father's side: Heathcliff married Mr. Linton's sister
I see the house at Wuthering Heights has "Earnshaw" carved over the front door. Are they an old family
Very old, sir; and Hareton is the last of them, as our Miss Cathy is of us - I mean, of the Lintons. Have you been to Wuthering Heights? I beg pardon for asking; but I should like to hear how she is
Mrs. Heathcliff? she looked very well, and very handsome; yet, I think, not very happy
Oh dear, I don't wonder! And how did you like the master
A rough fellow, rather, Mrs. Dean. Is not that his character? 'Rough as a saw-edge, and hard as whinstone! The less you meddle with him the better
He must have had some ups and downs in life to make him such a churl. Do you know anything of his history
It's a cuckoo's, sir - I know all about it: except where he was born, and who were his parents, and how he got his money at first. And Hareton has been cast out like an unfledged dunnock! The unfortunate lad is the only one in all this parish that does not guess how he has been cheated
Well, Mrs. Dean, it will be a charitable deed to tell me something of my neighbours: I feel I shall not rest if I go to bed; so be good enough to sit and chat an hour
Oh, certainly, sir! I'll just fetch a little sewing, and then I'll sit as long as you please. But you've caught cold: I saw you shivering, and you must have some gruel to drive it out
Now, my bonny man, I'm going to Liverpool to-day, what shall I bring you? You may choose what you like: only let it be little, for I shall walk there and back: sixty miles each way, that is a long spell
And at the end of it to be flighted to death
See here, wife! I was never so beaten with anything in my life: but you must e'en take it as a gift of God; though it's as dark almost as if it came from the devil
You must exchange horses with me: I don't like mine; and if you won't I shall tell your father of the three thrashings you've given me this week, and show him my arm, which is black to the shoulder
You'd better do it at once
you will have to: and if I speak of these blows, you'll get them again with interest
Off, dog
Throw it
and then I'll tell how you boasted that you would turn me out of doors as soon as he died, and see whether he will not turn you out directly
Take my colt, Gipsy, then
And I pray that he may break your neck: take him, and he damned, you beggarly interloper! and wheedle my father out of all he has: only afterwards show him what you are, imp of Satan. - And take that, I hope he'll kick out your brains
Hindley was nought, and would never thrive as where he wandered
Nay, Cathy
I cannot love thee, thou'rt worse than thy brother. Go, say thy prayers, child, and ask God's pardon. I doubt thy mother and I must rue that we ever reared thee
Why canst thou not always be a good lass, Cathy
Why cannot you always be a good man, father
frame up- stairs, and make little din - they might pray alone that evening - he had summut to do
I shall bid father good-night first
Oh, he's dead, Heathcliff! he's dead
Are they gone yet
Where is Miss Catherine
No accident, I hope
At Thrushcross Grange
and I would have been there too, but they had not the manners to ask me to stay
Well, you will catch it
you'll never be content till you're sent about your business. What in the world led you wandering to Thrushcross Grange
Let me get off my wet clothes, and I'll tell you all about it, Nelly
Cathy and I escaped from the wash-house to have a ramble at liberty, and getting a glimpse of the Grange lights, we thought we would just go and see whether the Lintons passed their Sunday evenings standing shivering in corners, while their father and mother sat eating and drinking, and singing and laughing, and burning their eyes out before the fire. Do you think they do? Or reading sermons, and being catechised by their manservant, and set to learn a column of Scripture names, if they don't answer properly
Probably not
They are good children, no doubt, and don't deserve the treatment you receive, for your bad conduct
Don't cant, Nelly
nonsense! We ran from the top of the Heights to the park, without stopping - Catherine completely beaten in the race, because she was barefoot. You'll have to seek for her shoes in the bog to-morrow. We crept through a broken hedge, groped our way up the path, and planted ourselves on a flower-plot under the drawing-room window. The light came from thence; they had not put up the shutters, and the curtains were only half closed. Both of us were able to look in by standing on the basement, and clinging to the ledge, and we saw - ah! it was beautiful - a splendid place carpeted with crimson, and crimson-covered chairs and tables, and a pure white ceiling bordered by gold, a shower of glass-drops hanging in silver chains from the centre, and shimmering with little soft tapers. Old Mr. and Mrs. Linton were not there; Edgar and his sisters had it entirely to themselves. Shouldn't they have been happy? We should have thought ourselves in heaven! And now, guess what your good children were doing? Isabella - I believe she is eleven, a year younger than Cathy - lay screaming at the farther end of the room, shrieking as if witches were running red-hot needles into her. Edgar stood on the hearth weeping silently, and in the middle of the table sat a little dog, shaking its paw and yelping; which, from their mutual accusations, we understood they had nearly pulled in two between them. The idiots! That was their pleasure! to quarrel who should hold a heap of warm hair, and each begin to cry because both, after struggling to get it, refused to take it. We laughed outright at the petted things; we did despise them! When would you catch me wishing to have what Catherine wanted? or find us by ourselves, seeking entertainment in yelling, and sobbing, and rolling on the ground, divided by the whole room? I'd not exchange, for a thousand lives, my condition here, for Edgar Linton's at Thrushcross Grange - not if I might have the privilege of flinging Joseph off the highest gable, and painting the house- front with Hindley's blood
Hush, hush
Still you have not told me, Heathcliff, how Catherine is left behind
I told you we laughed
What culpable carelessness in her brother!" exclaimed Mr. Linton, turning from me to Catherine. "I've understood from Shielders
A wicked boy, at all events," remarked the old lady, "and quite unfit for a decent house! Did you notice his language, Linton? I'm shocked that my children should have heard it." 'I recommenced cursing - don't be angry, Nelly - and so Robert was ordered to take me off. I refused to go without Cathy; he dragged me into the garden, pushed the lantern into my hand, assured me that Mr. Earnshaw should be informed of my behaviour, and, bidding me march directly, secured the door again. The curtains were still looped up at one corner, and I resumed my station as spy; because, if Catherine had wished to return, I intended shattering their great glass panes to a million of fragments, unless they let her out. She sat on the sofa quietly. Mrs. Linton took off the grey cloak of the dairy-maid which we had borrowed for our excursion, shaking her head and expostulating with her, I suppose: she was a young lady, and they made a distinction between her treatment and mine. Then the woman-servant brought a basin of warm water, and washed her feet; and Mr. Linton mixed a tumbler of negus, and Isabella emptied a plateful of cakes into her lap, and Edgar stood gaping at a distance. Afterwards, they dried and combed her beautiful hair, and gave her a pair of enormous slippers, and wheeled her to the fire; and I left her, as merry as she could be, dividing her food between the little dog and Skulker, whose nose she pinched as he ate; and kindling a spark of spirit in the vacant blue eyes of the Lintons - a dim reflection from her own enchanting face. I saw they were full of stupid admiration; she is so immeasurably superior to them - to everybody on earth, is she not, Nelly
There will more come of this business than you reckon on
You are incurable, Heathcliff; and Mr. Hindley will have to proceed to extremities, see if he won't
Why, Cathy, you are quite a beauty! I should scarcely have known you: you look like a lady now. Isabella Linton is not to be compared with her, is she, Frances
Isabella has not her natural advantages
but she must mind and not grow wild again here. Ellen, help Miss Catherine off with her things - Stay, dear, you will disarrange your curls - let me untie your hat
Is Heathcliff not here
Heathcliff, you may come forward
You may come and wish Miss Catherine welcome, like the other servants
Why, how very black and cross you look! and how - how funny and grim! But that's because I'm used to Edgar and Isabella Linton. Well, Heathcliff, have you forgotten me
Shake hands, Heathcliff
once in a way, that is permitted
I shall not
I shall not stand to be laughed at. I shall not bear it
I did not mean to laugh at you
I could not hinder myself: Heathcliff, shake hands at least! What are you sulky for? It was only that you looked odd. If you wash your face and brush your hair, it will be all right: but you are so dirty
You needn't have touched me
I shall be as dirty as I please: and I like to be dirty, and I will be dirty
naughty swearing boy
Make haste, Heathcliff
the kitchen is so comfortable; and Joseph is up-stairs: make haste, and let me dress you smart before Miss Cathy comes out, and then you can sit together, with the whole hearth to yourselves, and have a long chatter till bedtime
Come - are you coming
There's a little cake for each of you, nearly enough; and you'll need half-an-hour's donning
Nelly, make me decent, I'm going to be good
High time, Heathcliff
you HAVE grieved Catherine: she's sorry she ever came home, I daresay! It looks as if you envied her, because she is more thought of than you
Did she say she was grieved
She cried when I told her you were off again this morning
Well, I cried last night
and I had more reason to cry than she
Yes: you had the reason of going to bed with a proud heart and an empty stomach
Proud people breed sad sorrows for themselves. But, if you be ashamed of your touchiness, you must ask pardon, mind, when she comes in. You must go up and offer to kiss her, and say - you know best what to say; only do it heartily, and not as if you thought her converted into a stranger by her grand dress. And now, though I have dinner to get ready, I'll steal time to arrange you so that Edgar Linton shall look quite a doll beside you: and that he does. You are younger, and yet, I'll be bound, you are taller and twice as broad across the shoulders; you could knock him down in a twinkling; don't you feel that you could
But, Nelly, if I knocked him down twenty times, that wouldn't make him less handsome or me more so. I wish I had light hair and a fair skin, and was dressed and behaved as well, and had a chance of being as rich as he will be
And cried for mamma at every turn
and trembled if a country lad heaved his fist against you, and sat at home all day for a shower of rain. Oh, Heathcliff, you are showing a poor spirit! Come to the glass, and I'll let you see what you should wish. Do you mark those two lines between your eyes; and those thick brows, that, instead of rising arched, sink in the middle; and that couple of black fiends, so deeply buried, who never open their windows boldly, but lurk glinting under them, like devil's spies? Wish and learn to smooth away the surly wrinkles, to raise your lids frankly, and change the fiends to confident, innocent angels, suspecting and doubting nothing, and always seeing friends where they are not sure of foes. Don't get the expression of a vicious cur that appears to know the kicks it gets are its desert, and yet hates all the world, as well as the kicker, for what it suffers
In other words, I must wish for Edgar Linton's great blue eyes and even forehead
I do - and that won't help me to them
A good heart will help you to a bonny face, my lad
if you were a regular black; and a bad one will turn the bonniest into something worse than ugly. And now that we've done washing, and combing, and sulking - tell me whether you don't think yourself rather handsome? I'll tell you, I do. You're fit for a prince in disguise. Who knows but your father was Emperor of China, and your mother an Indian queen, each of them able to buy up, with one week's income, Wuthering Heights and Thrushcross Grange together? And you were kidnapped by wicked sailors and brought to England. Were I in your place, I would frame high notions of my birth; and the thoughts of what I was should give me courage and dignity to support the oppressions of a little farmer
keep the fellow out of the room - send him into the garret till dinner is over. He'll be cramming his fingers in the tarts and stealing the fruit, if left alone with them a minute
Nay, sir
he'll touch nothing, not he: and I suppose he must have his share of the dainties as well as we
He shall have his share of my hand, if I catch him downstairs till dark
Begone, you vagabond! What! you are attempting the coxcomb, are you? Wait till I get hold of those elegant locks - see if I won't pull them a bit longer
They are long enough already
I wonder they don't make his head ache. It's like a colt's mane over his eyes
You should not have spoken to him
He was in a bad temper, and now you've spoilt your visit; and he'll be flogged: I hate him to be flogged! I can't eat my dinner. Why did you speak to him, Edgar
I didn't
I promised mamma that I wouldn't say one word to him, and I didn't
Well, don't cry
you're not killed. Don't make more mischief; my brother is coming: be quiet! Hush, Isabella! Has anybody hurt you
There, there, children - to your seats
That brute of a lad has warmed me nicely. Next time, Master Edgar, take the law into your own fists - it will give you an appetite
An unfeeling child
how lightly she dismisses her old playmate's troubles. I could not have imagined her to be so selfish
devil's psalmody
I'm trying to settle how I shall pay Hindley back. I don't care how long I wait, if I can only do it at last. I hope he will not die before I do
For shame, Heathcliff
It is for God to punish wicked people; we should learn to forgive
No, God won't have the satisfaction that I shall
I only wish I knew the best way! Let me alone, and I'll plan it out: while I'm thinking of that I don't feel pain
But, Mr. Lockwood, I forget these tales cannot divert you. I'm annoyed how I should dream of chattering on at such a rate; and your gruel cold, and you nodding for bed! I could have told Heathcliff's history, all that you need hear, in half a dozen words
Sit still, Mrs. Dean
do sit still another half-hour. You've done just right to tell the story leisurely. That is the method I like; and you must finish it in the same style. I am interested in every character you have mentioned, more or less
The clock is on the stroke of eleven, sir
No matter - I'm not accustomed to go to bed in the long hours. One or two is early enough for a person who lies till ten
Nevertheless, Mrs. Dean, resume your chair; because to-morrow I intend lengthening the night till afternoon. I prognosticate for myself an obstinate cold, at least
No, no, I'll allow nothing of the sort! Are you acquainted with the mood of mind in which, if you were seated alone, and the cat licking its kitten on the rug before you, you would watch the operation so intently that puss's neglect of one ear would put you seriously out of temper
A terribly lazy mood, I should say
On the contrary, a tiresomely active one. It is mine, at present; and, therefore, continue minutely. I perceive that people in these regions acquire over people in towns the value that a spider in a dungeon does over a spider in a cottage, to their various occupants; and yet the deepened attraction is not entirely owing to the situation of the looker-on. They DO live more in earnest, more in themselves, and less in surface, change, and frivolous external things. I could fancy a love for life here almost possible; and I was a fixed unbeliever in any love of a year's standing. One state resembles setting a hungry man down to a single dish, on which he may concentrate his entire appetite and do it justice; the other, introducing him to a table laid out by French cooks: he can perhaps extract as much enjoyment from the whole; but each part is a mere atom in his regard and remembrance
Oh! here we are the same as anywhere else, when you get to know us
Excuse me
you, my good friend, are a striking evidence against that assertion. Excepting a few provincialisms of slight consequence, you have no marks of the manners which I am habituated to consider as peculiar to your class. I am sure you have thought a great deal more than the generality of servants think. You have been compelled to cultivate your reflective faculties for want of occasions for frittering your life away in silly trifles
I certainly esteem myself a steady, reasonable kind of body
not exactly from living among the hills and seeing one set of faces, and one series of actions, from year's end to year's end; but I have undergone sharp discipline, which has taught me wisdom; and then, I have read more than you would fancy, Mr. Lockwood. You could not open a book in this library that I have not looked into, and got something out of also: unless it be that range of Greek and Latin, and that of French; and those I know one from another: it is as much as you can expect of a poor man's daughter. However, if I am to follow my story in true gossip's fashion, I had better go on; and instead of leaping three years, I will be content to pass to the next summer - the summer of 1778, that is nearly twenty-three years ago
Oh, such a grand bairn
The finest lad that ever breathed! But the doctor says missis must go: he says she's been in a consumption these many months. I heard him tell Mr. Hindley: and now she has nothing to keep her, and she'll be dead before winter. You must come home directly. You're to nurse it, Nelly: to feed it with sugar and milk, and take care of it day and night. I wish I were you, because it will be all yours when there is no missis
But is she very ill
I guess she is; yet she looks bravely
and she talks as if she thought of living to see it grow a man. She's out of her head for joy, it's such a beauty! If I were her I'm certain I should not die: I should get better at the bare sight of it, in spite of Kenneth. I was fairly mad at him. Dame Archer brought the cherub down to master, in the house, and his face just began to light up, when the old croaker steps forward, and says he - "Earnshaw, it's a blessing your wife has been spared to leave you this son. When she came, I felt convinced we shouldn't keep her long; and now, I must tell you, the winter will probably finish her. Don't take on, and fret about it too much: it can't be helped. And besides, you should have known better than to choose such a rush of a lass
And what did the master answer
I think he swore: but I didn't mind him, I was straining to see the bairn
how was the baby
Nearly ready to run about, Nell
And the mistress
Damn the doctor
Frances is quite right: she'll be perfectly well by this time next week. Are you going up-stairs? will you tell her that I'll come, if she'll promise not to talk. I left her because she would not hold her tongue; and she must - tell her Mr. Kenneth says she must be quiet
I hardly spoke a word, Ellen, and there he has gone out twice, crying. Well, say I promise I won't speak: but that does not bind me not to laugh at him
I know you need not - she's well - she does not want any more attendance from you! She never was in a consumption. It was a fever; and it is gone: her pulse is as slow as mine now, and her cheek as cool
A very agreeable portrait
Is it like
Yes
but he looked better when he was animated; that is his everyday countenance: he wanted spirit in general
vulgar young ruffian
worse than a brute
Cathy, are you busy this afternoon
Are you going anywhere
No, it is raining
Why have you that silk frock on, then
Nobody coming here, I hope
Not that I know of
but you should be in the field now, Heathcliff. It is an hour past dinnertime: I thought you were gone
Hindley does not often free us from his accursed presence
I'll not work any more to-day: I'll stay with you
Oh, but Joseph will tell
you'd better go
Joseph is loading lime on the further side of Penistone Crags; it will take him till dark, and he'll never know
Isabella and Edgar Linton talked of calling this afternoon
As it rains, I hardly expect them; but they may come, and if they do, you run the risk of being scolded for no good
Order Ellen to say you are engaged, Cathy
That they what
Oh, Nelly
you've combed my hair quite out of curl! That's enough; let me alone. What are you on the point of complaining about, Heathcliff
Nothing - only look at the almanack on that wall;' he pointed to a framed sheet hanging near the window, and continued, 'The crosses are for the evenings you have spent with the Lintons, the dots for those spent with me. Do you see? I've marked every day
Yes - very foolish: as if I took notice
And where is the sense of that
To show that I DO take notice
And should I always be sitting with you
What good do I get? What do you talk about? You might be dumb, or a baby, for anything you say to amuse me, or for anything you do, either
You never told me before that I talked too little, or that you disliked my company, Cathy
It's no company at all, when people know nothing and say nothing
I'm not come too soon, am I
No
What are you doing there, Nelly
My work, Miss
Take yourself and your dusters off; when company are in the house, servants don't commence scouring and cleaning in the room where they are
It's a good opportunity, now that master is away
he hates me to be fidgeting over these things in his presence. I'm sure Mr. Edgar will excuse me
I hate you to be fidgeting in MY presence
I'm sorry for it, Miss Catherine
Oh, Miss, that's a nasty trick! You have no right to nip me, and I'm not going to bear it
I didn't touch you, you lying creature
What's that, then
Catherine, love! Catherine
Leave the room, Ellen
wicked aunt Cathy
That's right
Take warning and begone! It's a kindness to let you have a glimpse of her genuine disposition
Where are you going
You must not go
I must and shall
No
not yet, Edgar Linton: sit down; you shall not leave me in that temper. I should be miserable all night, and I won't be miserable for you
Can I stay after you have struck me
You've made me afraid and ashamed of you
I'll not come here again
And you told a deliberate untruth
I didn't
I did nothing deliberately. Well, go, if you please - get away! And now I'll cry - I'll cry myself sick
Miss is dreadfully wayward, sir
As bad as any marred child: you'd better be riding home, or else she will be sick, only to grieve us
There, I've found it out at last
By heaven and hell, you've sworn between you to murder that child! I know how it is, now, that he is always out of my way. But, with the help of Satan, I shall make you swallow the carving-knife, Nelly! You needn't laugh; for I've just crammed Kenneth, head-downmost, in the Black- horse marsh; and two is the same as one - and I want to kill some of you: I shall have no rest till I do
But I don't like the carving-knife, Mr. Hindley
it has been cutting red herrings. I'd rather be shot, if you please
You'd rather be damned
and so you shall. No law in England can hinder a man from keeping his house decent, and mine's abominable! Open your mouth
Oh
I see that hideous little villain is not Hareton: I beg your pardon, Nell. If it be, he deserves flaying alive for not running to welcome me, and for screaming as if I were a goblin. Unnatural cub, come hither! I'll teach thee to impose on a good-hearted, deluded father. Now, don't you think the lad would be handsomer cropped? It makes a dog fiercer, and I love something fierce - get me a scissors - something fierce and trim! Besides, it's infernal affectation - devilish conceit it is, to cherish our ears - we're asses enough without them. Hush, child, hush! Well then, it is my darling! wisht, dry thy eyes - there's a joy; kiss me. What! it won't? Kiss me, Hareton! Damn thee, kiss me! By God, as if I would rear such a monster! As sure as I'm living, I'll break the brat's neck
Who is that
It is your fault, Ellen
you should have kept him out of sight: you should have taken him from me! Is he injured anywhere
Injured
if he is not killed, he'll be an idiot! Oh! I wonder his mother does not rise from her grave to see how you use him. You're worse than a heathen - treating your own flesh and blood in that manner
You shall not meddle with him
He hates you - they all hate you - that's the truth! A happy family you have; and a pretty state you're come to
I shall come to a prettier, yet, Nelly
At present, convey yourself and him away. And hark you, Heathcliff! clear you too quite from my reach and hearing. I wouldn't murder you to-night; unless, perhaps, I set the house on fire: but that's as my fancy goes
Nay, don't
Mr. Hindley, do take warning. Have mercy on this unfortunate boy, if you care nothing for yourself
Any one will do better for him than I shall
Have mercy on your own soul
Not I! On the contrary, I shall have great pleasure in sending it to perdition to punish its Maker
Here's to its hearty damnation
It's a pity he cannot kill himself with drink
He's doing his very utmost; but his constitution defies him. Mr. Kenneth says he would wager his mare that he'll outlive any man on this side Gimmerton, and go to the grave a hoary sinner; unless some happy chance out of the common course befall him
Are you alone, Nelly
Yes, Miss
Where's Heathcliff
About his work in the stable
Oh, dear
I'm very unhappy
A pity
You're hard to please; so many friends and so few cares, and can't make yourself content
Nelly, will you keep a secret for me
Is it worth keeping
Yes, and it worries me, and I must let it out! I want to know what I should do. To-day, Edgar Linton has asked me to marry him, and I've given him an answer. Now, before I tell you whether it was a consent or denial, you tell me which it ought to have been
Really, Miss Catherine, how can I know
To be sure, considering the exhibition you performed in his presence this afternoon, I might say it would be wise to refuse him: since he asked you after that, he must either be hopelessly stupid or a venturesome fool
If you talk so, I won't tell you any more
I accepted him, Nelly. Be quick, and say whether I was wrong
You accepted him! Then what good is it discussing the matter? You have pledged your word, and cannot retract
But say whether I should have done so - do
There are many things to be considered before that question can be answered properly
First and foremost, do you love Mr. Edgar
Who can help it? Of course I do
Why do you love him, Miss Cathy
Nonsense, I do - that's sufficient
By no means; you must say why
Well, because he is handsome, and pleasant to be with
Bad
And because he is young and cheerful
Bad, still
And because he loves me
Indifferent, coming there
And he will be rich, and I shall like to be the greatest woman of the neighbourhood, and I shall be proud of having such a husband
Worst of all. And now, say how you love him
As everybody loves - You're silly, Nelly
Not at all - Answer
I love the ground under his feet, and the air over his head, and everything he touches, and every word he says. I love all his looks, and all his actions, and him entirely and altogether. There now
And why
Nay; you are making a jest of it: it is exceedingly ill-natured! It's no jest to me
I'm very far from jesting, Miss Catherine
You love Mr. Edgar because he is handsome, and young, and cheerful, and rich, and loves you. The last, however, goes for nothing: you would love him without that, probably; and with it you wouldn't, unless he possessed the four former attractions
No, to be sure not: I should only pity him - hate him, perhaps, if he were ugly, and a clown
But there are several other handsome, rich young men in the world: handsomer, possibly, and richer than he is. What should hinder you from loving them
If there be any, they are out of my way: I've seen none like Edgar
You may see some; and he won't always be handsome, and young, and may not always be rich
He is now; and I have only to do with the present. I wish you would speak rationally
Well, that settles it: if you have only to do with the present, marry Mr. Linton
I don't want your permission for that - I SHALL marry him: and yet you have not told me whether I'm right
Perfectly right; if people be right to marry only for the present. And now, let us hear what you are unhappy about. Your brother will be pleased; the old lady and gentleman will not object, I think; you will escape from a disorderly, comfortless home into a wealthy, respectable one; and you love Edgar, and Edgar loves you. All seems smooth and easy: where is the obstacle
HERE! and HERE
in whichever place the soul lives. In my soul and in my heart, I'm convinced I'm wrong
That's very strange! I cannot make it out
It's my secret. But if you will not mock at me, I'll explain it: I can't do it distinctly; but I'll give you a feeling of how I feel
Nelly, do you never dream queer dreams
Yes, now and then
And so do I. I've dreamt in my life dreams that have stayed with me ever after, and changed my ideas: they've gone through and through me, like wine through water, and altered the colour of my mind. And this is one: I'm going to tell it - but take care not to smile at any part of it
Oh! don't, Miss Catherine
We're dismal enough without conjuring up ghosts and visions to perplex us. Come, come, be merry and like yourself! Look at little Hareton! HE'S dreaming nothing dreary. How sweetly he smiles in his sleep
Yes; and how sweetly his father curses in his solitude! You remember him, I daresay, when he was just such another as that chubby thing: nearly as young and innocent. However, Nelly, I shall oblige you to listen: it's not long; and I've no power to be merry to-night
I won't hear it, I won't hear it
If I were in heaven, Nelly, I should be extremely miserable
Because you are not fit to go there
All sinners would be miserable in heaven
But it is not for that. I dreamt once that I was there
I tell you I won't hearken to your dreams, Miss Catherine! I'll go to bed
This is nothing
I was only going to say that heaven did not seem to be my home; and I broke my heart with weeping to come back to earth; and the angels were so angry that they flung me out into the middle of the heath on the top of Wuthering Heights; where I woke sobbing for joy. That will do to explain my secret, as well as the other. I've no more business to marry Edgar Linton than I have to be in heaven; and if the wicked man in there had not brought Heathcliff so low, I shouldn't have thought of it. It would degrade me to marry Heathcliff now; so he shall never know how I love him: and that, not because he's handsome, Nelly, but because he's more myself than I am. Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same; and Linton's is as different as a moonbeam from lightning, or frost from fire
Why
Joseph is here
and Heathcliff will come in with him. I'm not sure whether he were not at the door this moment
Oh, he couldn't overhear me at the door
Give me Hareton, while you get the supper, and when it is ready ask me to sup with you. I want to cheat my uncomfortable conscience, and be convinced that Heathcliff has no notion of these things. He has not, has he? He does not know what being in love is
I see no reason that he should not know, as well as you
He quite deserted! we separated
Who is to separate us, pray? They'll meet the fate of Milo! Not as long as I live, Ellen: for no mortal creature. Every Linton on the face of the earth might melt into nothing before I could consent to forsake Heathcliff. Oh, that's not what I intend - that's not what I mean! I shouldn't be Mrs. Linton were such a price demanded! He'll be as much to me as he has been all his lifetime. Edgar must shake off his antipathy, and tolerate him, at least. He will, when he learns my true feelings towards him. Nelly, I see now you think me a selfish wretch; but did it never strike you that if Heathcliff and I married, we should be beggars? whereas, if I marry Linton I can aid Heathcliff to rise, and place him out of my brother's power
With your husband's money, Miss Catherine
You'll find him not so pliable as you calculate upon: and, though I'm hardly a judge, I think that's the worst motive you've given yet for being the wife of young Linton
It is not
If I can make any sense of your nonsense, Miss
it only goes to convince me that you are ignorant of the duties you undertake in marrying; or else that you are a wicked, unprincipled girl. But trouble me with no more secrets: I'll not promise to keep them
You'll keep that
No, I'll not promise
And how isn't that nowt comed in fro' th' field, be this time? What is he about? girt idle seeght
I'll call him
He's in the barn, I've no doubt
ill eneugh for ony fahl manners
I want to speak to him, and I MUST, before I go upstairs
And the gate is open: he is somewhere out of hearing; for he would not reply, though I shouted at the top of the fold as loud as I could
I wonder where he is - I wonder where he can be! What did I say, Nelly? I've forgotten. Was he vexed at my bad humour this afternoon? Dear! tell me what I've said to grieve him? I do wish he'd come. I do wish he would
What a noise for nothing
What a trifle scares you! It's surely no great cause of alarm that Heathcliff should take a moonlight saunter on the moors, or even lie too sulky to speak to us in the hay-loft. I'll engage he's lurking there. See if I don't ferret him out
Yon lad gets war und war
Have you found Heathcliff, you ass
Have you been looking for him, as I ordered
I sud more likker look for th' horse
ud be to more sense. Bud I can look for norther horse nur man of a neeght loike this - as black as t' chimbley! und Heathcliff's noan t' chap to coom at MY whistle - happen he'll be less hard o' hearing wi' YE
Well, Miss
Nay, nay, he's noan at Gimmerton
I's niver wonder but he's at t' bothom of a bog-hoile. This visitation worn't for nowt, and I wod hev' ye to look out, Miss - yah muh be t' next. Thank Hivin for all! All warks togither for gooid to them as is chozzen, and piked out fro' th' rubbidge! Yah knaw whet t' Scripture ses
What ails you, Cathy
you look as dismal as a drowned whelp. Why are you so damp and pale, child
I've been wet
and I'm cold, that's all
Oh, she is naughty
She got steeped in the shower of yesterday evening, and there she has sat the night through, and I couldn't prevail on her to stir
The night through
What kept her up? not fear of the thunder, surely? That was over hours since
Ellen, shut the window. I'm starving
She's ill
I suppose that's the reason she would not go to bed. Damn it! I don't want to be troubled with more sickness here. What took you into the rain
Running after t' lads, as usuald
If I war yah, maister, I'd just slam t' boards i' their faces all on 'em, gentle and simple! Never a day ut yah're off, but yon cat o' Linton comes sneaking hither; and Miss Nelly, shoo's a fine lass! shoo sits watching for ye i' t' kitchen; and as yah're in at one door, he's out at t'other; and, then, wer grand lady goes a- courting of her side! It's bonny behaviour, lurking amang t' fields, after twelve o' t' night, wi' that fahl, flaysome divil of a gipsy, Heathcliff! They think I'M blind; but I'm noan: nowt ut t' soart! - I seed young Linton boath coming and going, and I seed YAH' (directing his discourse to me), 'yah gooid fur nowt, slattenly witch! nip up and bolt into th' house, t' minute yah heard t' maister's horse-fit clatter up t' road
Silence, eavesdropper
none of your insolence before me! Edgar Linton came yesterday by chance, Hindley; and it was I who told him to be off: because I knew you would not like to have met him as you were
You lie, Cathy, no doubt
and you are a confounded simpleton! But never mind Linton at present: tell me, were you not with Heathcliff last night? Speak the truth, now. You need not he afraid of harming him: though I hate him as much as ever, he did me a good turn a short time since that will make my conscience tender of breaking his neck. To prevent it, I shall send him about his business this very morning; and after he's gone, I'd advise you all to look sharp: I shall only have the more humour for you
I never saw Heathcliff last night
and if you do turn him out of doors, I'll go with him. But, perhaps, you'll never have an opportunity: perhaps, he's gone
It wants twenty minutes, sir, to taking the medicine
Away, away with it
The doctor says you must drop the powders
With all my heart! Don't interrupt me. Come and take your seat here. Keep your fingers from that bitter phalanx of vials. Draw your knitting out of your pocket - that will do - now continue the history of Mr. Heathcliff, from where you left off, to the present day. Did he finish his education on the Continent, and come back a gentleman? or did he get a sizar's place at college, or escape to America, and earn honours by drawing blood from his foster-country? or make a fortune more promptly on the English highways
He may have done a little in all these vocations, Mr. Lockwood; but I couldn't give my word for any. I stated before that I didn't know how he gained his money; neither am I aware of the means he took to raise his mind from the savage ignorance into which it was sunk: but, with your leave, I'll proceed in my own fashion, if you think it will amuse and not weary you. Are you feeling better this morning
Much
That's good news
Nelly, is that you
Who can it be
Mr. Earnshaw? Oh, no! The voice has no resemblance to his
I have waited here an hour
and the whole of that time all round has been as still as death. I dared not enter. You do not know me? Look, I'm not a stranger
What
What! you come back? Is it really you? Is it
Yes, Heathcliff
Are they at home? where is she? Nelly, you are not glad! you needn't be so disturbed. Is she here? Speak! I want to have one word with her - your mistress. Go, and say some person from Gimmerton desires to see her
How will she take it
What will she do? The surprise bewilders me - it will put her out of her head! And you ARE Heathcliff! But altered! Nay, there's no comprehending it. Have you been for a soldier
Go and carry my message
I'm in hell till you do
A person from Gimmerton wishes to see you ma'am
What does he want
I did not question him
Well, close the curtains, Nelly
and bring up tea. I'll be back again directly
Some one mistress does not expect
That Heathcliff - you recollect him, sir - who used to live at Mr. Earnshaw's
What! the gipsy - the ploughboy
Why did you not say so to Catherine
Hush! you must not call him by those names, master
She'd be sadly grieved to hear you. She was nearly heartbroken when he ran off. I guess his return will make a jubilee to her
Don't stand there, love! Bring the person in, if it be anyone particular
Oh, Edgar, Edgar
Oh, Edgar darling! Heathcliff's come back - he is
Well, well
don't strangle me for that! He never struck me as such a marvellous treasure. There is no need to be frantic
I know you didn't like him
Yet, for my sake, you must be friends now. Shall I tell him to come up
Here
into the parlour
Where else
No
I cannot sit in the kitchen. Set two tables here, Ellen: one for your master and Miss Isabella, being gentry; the other for Heathcliff and myself, being of the lower orders. Will that please you, dear? Or must I have a fire lighted elsewhere? If so, give directions. I'll run down and secure my guest. I'm afraid the joy is too great to be real
YOU bid him step up
and, Catherine, try to be glad, without being absurd. The whole household need not witness the sight of your welcoming a runaway servant as a brother
Sit down, sir
Mrs. Linton, recalling old times, would have me give you a cordial reception; and, of course, I am gratified when anything occurs to please her
And I also
especially if it be anything in which I have a part. I shall stay an hour or two willingly
I shall think it a dream to-morrow
I shall not be able to believe that I have seen, and touched, and spoken to you once more. And yet, cruel Heathcliff! you don't deserve this welcome. To be absent and silent for three years, and never to think of me
A little more than you have thought of me
I heard of your marriage, Cathy, not long since; and, while waiting in the yard below, I meditated this plan - just to have one glimpse of your face, a stare of surprise, perhaps, and pretended pleasure; afterwards settle my score with Hindley; and then prevent the law by doing execution on myself. Your welcome has put these ideas out of my mind; but beware of meeting me with another aspect next time! Nay, you'll not drive me off again. You were really sorry for me, were you? Well, there was cause. I've fought through a bitter life since I last heard your voice; and you must forgive me, for I struggled only for you
Catherine, unless we are to have cold tea, please to come to the table
Mr. Heathcliff will have a long walk, wherever he may lodge to-night; and I'm thirsty
No, to Wuthering Heights
Mr. Earnshaw invited me, when I called this morning
I cannot rest, Ellen
And I want some living creature to keep me company in my happiness! Edgar is sulky, because I'm glad of a thing that does not interest him: he refuses to open his mouth, except to utter pettish, silly speeches; and he affirmed I was cruel and selfish for wishing to talk when he was so sick and sleepy. He always contrives to be sick at the least cross! I gave a few sentences of commendation to Heathcliff, and he, either for a headache or a pang of envy, began to cry: so I got up and left him
What use is it praising Heathcliff to him
As lads they had an aversion to each other, and Heathcliff would hate just as much to hear him praised: it's human nature. Let Mr. Linton alone about him, unless you would like an open quarrel between them
But does it not show great weakness
I'm not envious: I never feel hurt at the brightness of Isabella's yellow hair and the whiteness of her skin, at her dainty elegance, and the fondness all the family exhibit for her. Even you, Nelly, if we have a dispute sometimes, you back Isabella at once; and I yield like a foolish mother: I call her a darling, and flatter her into a good temper. It pleases her brother to see us cordial, and that pleases me. But they are very much alike: they are spoiled children, and fancy the world was made for their accommodation; and though I humour both, I think a smart chastisement might improve them all the same
You're mistaken, Mrs. Linton
They humour you: I know what there would be to do if they did not. You can well afford to indulge their passing whims as long as their business is to anticipate all your desires. You may, however, fall out, at last, over something of equal consequence to both sides; and then those you term weak are very capable of being as obstinate as you
No! I tell you, I have such faith in Linton's love, that I believe I might kill him, and he wouldn't wish to retaliate
I do
but he needn't resort to whining for trifles. It is childish and, instead of melting into tears because I said that Heathcliff was now worthy of anyone's regard, and it would honour the first gentleman in the country to be his friend, he ought to have said it for me, and been delighted from sympathy. He must get accustomed to him, and he may as well like him: considering how Heathcliff has reason to object to him, I'm sure he behaved excellently
What do you think of his going to Wuthering Heights
He is reformed in every respect, apparently: quite a Christian: offering the right hand of fellowship to his enemies all around
He explained it
I wonder as much as you. He said he called to gather information concerning me from you, supposing you resided there still; and Joseph told Hindley, who came out and fell to questioning him of what he had been doing, and how he had been living; and finally, desired him to walk in. There were some persons sitting at cards; Heathcliff joined them; my brother lost some money to him, and, finding him plentifully supplied, he requested that he would come again in the evening: to which he consented. Hindley is too reckless to select his acquaintance prudently: he doesn't trouble himself to reflect on the causes he might have for mistrusting one whom he has basely injured. But Heathcliff affirms his principal reason for resuming a connection with his ancient persecutor is a wish to instal himself in quarters at walking distance from the Grange, and an attachment to the house where we lived together; and likewise a hope that I shall have more opportunities of seeing him there than I could have if he settled in Gimmerton. He means to offer liberal payment for permission to lodge at the Heights; and doubtless my brother's covetousness will prompt him to accept the terms: he was always greedy; though what he grasps with one hand he flings away with the other
It's a nice place for a young man to fix his dwelling in
Have you no fear of the consequences, Mrs. Linton
None for my friend
his strong head will keep him from danger; a little for Hindley: but he can't be made morally worse than he is; and I stand between him and bodily harm. The event of this evening has reconciled me to God and humanity! I had risen in angry rebellion against Providence. Oh, I've endured very, very bitter misery, Nelly! If that creature knew how bitter, he'd be ashamed to cloud its removal with idle petulance. It was kindness for him which induced me to bear it alone: had I expressed the agony I frequently felt, he would have been taught to long for its alleviation as ardently as I. However, it's over, and I'll take no revenge on his folly; I can afford to suffer anything hereafter! Should the meanest thing alive slap me on the cheek, I'd not only turn the other, but I'd ask pardon for provoking it; and, as a proof, I'll go make my peace with Edgar instantly. Good- night! I'm an angel
How can you say I am harsh, you naughty fondling
You are surely losing your reason. When have I been hash, tell me
Yesterday
and now
Yesterday
On what occasion
In our walk along the moor: you told me to ramble where I pleased, while you sauntered on with Mr. Heathcliff
And that's your notion of harshness
It was no hint that your company was superfluous? We didn't care whether you kept with us or not; I merely thought Heathcliff's talk would have nothing entertaining for your ears
Oh, no
you wished me away, because you knew I liked to be there
Is she sane
I'll repeat our conversation, word for word, Isabella; and you point out any charm it could have had for you
I don't mind the conversation
With him: and I won't be always sent off
You are a dog in the manger, Cathy, and desire no one to be loved but yourself
You are an impertinent little monkey
But I'll not believe this idiotcy! It is impossible that you can covet the admiration of Heathcliff - that you consider him an agreeable person! I hope I have misunderstood you, Isabella
No, you have not
I love him more than ever you loved Edgar, and he might love me, if you would let him
I wouldn't be you for a kingdom, then
Nelly, help me to convince her of her madness. Tell her what Heathcliff is: an unreclaimed creature, without refinement, without cultivation; an arid wilderness of furze and whinstone. I'd as soon put that little canary into the park on a winter's day, as recommend you to bestow your heart on him! It is deplorable ignorance of his character, child, and nothing else, which makes that dream enter your head. Pray, don't imagine that he conceals depths of benevolence and affection beneath a stern exterior! He's not a rough diamond - a pearl-containing oyster of a rustic: he's a fierce, pitiless, wolfish man. I never say to him, "Let this or that enemy alone, because it would be ungenerous or cruel to harm them;" I say, "Let them alone, because I should hate them to be wronged:" and he'd crush you like a sparrow's egg, Isabella, if he found you a troublesome charge. I know he couldn't love a Linton; and yet he'd be quite capable of marrying your fortune and expectations: avarice is growing with him a besetting sin. There's my picture: and I'm his friend - so much so, that had he thought seriously to catch you, I should, perhaps, have held my tongue, and let you fall into his trap
For shame! for shame
You are worse than twenty foes, you poisonous friend
Ah! you won't believe me, then
You think I speak from wicked selfishness
I'm certain you do
and I shudder at you
Good
Try for yourself, if that be your spirit: I have done, and yield the argument to your saucy insolence
And I must suffer for her egotism
All, all is against me: she has blighted my single consolation. But she uttered falsehoods, didn't she? Mr. Heathcliff is not a fiend: he has an honourable soul, and a true one, or how could he remember her
Banish him from your thoughts, Miss
You are leagued with the rest, Ellen
I'll not listen to your slanders. What malevolence you must have to wish to convince me that there is no happiness in the world
Come in, that's right
We were quarrelling like cats about you, Heathcliff; and I was fairly beaten in protestations of devotion and admiration: and, moreover, I was informed that if I would but have the manners to stand aside, my rival, as she will have herself to be, would shoot a shaft into your soul that would fix you for ever, and send my image into eternal oblivion
Catherine
I'd thank you to adhere to the truth and not slander me, even in joke! Mr. Heathcliff, be kind enough to bid this friend of yours release me: she forgets that you and I are not intimate acquaintances; and what amuses her is painful to me beyond expression
By no means
I won't be named a dog in the manger again. You SHALL stay: now then! Heathcliff, why don't you evince satisfaction at my pleasant news? Isabella swears that the love Edgar has for me is nothing to that she entertains for you. I'm sure she made some speech of the kind; did she not, Ellen? And she has fasted ever since the day before yesterday's walk, from sorrow and rage that I despatched her out of your society under the idea of its being unacceptable
I think you belie her
She wishes to be out of my society now, at any rate
There's a tigress
Begone, for God's sake, and hide your vixen face! How foolish to reveal those talons to him. Can't you fancy the conclusions he'll draw? Look, Heathcliff! they are instruments that will do execution - you must beware of your eyes
I'd wrench them off her fingers, if they ever menaced me
But what did you mean by teasing the creature in that manner, Cathy? You were not speaking the truth, were you
I assure you I was
She has been dying for your sake several weeks, and raving about you this morning, and pouring forth a deluge of abuse, because I represented your failings in a plain light, for the purpose of mitigating her adoration. But don't notice it further: I wished to punish her sauciness, that's all. I like her too well, my dear Heathcliff, to let you absolutely seize and devour her up
And I like her too ill to attempt it
except in a very ghoulish fashion. You'd hear of odd things if I lived alone with that mawkish, waxen face: the most ordinary would be painting on its white the colours of the rainbow, and turning the blue eyes black, every day or two: they detestably resemble Linton's
Delectably
They are dove's eyes - angel's
She's her brother's heir, is she not
I should be sorry to think so
Half a dozen nephews shall erase her title, please heaven! Abstract your mind from the subject at present: you are too prone to covet your neighbour's goods; remember THIS neighbour's goods are mine
If they were MINE, they would be none the less that
but though Isabella Linton may be silly, she is scarcely mad; and, in short, we'll dismiss the matter, as you advise
Poor Hindley
God bless thee, darling
Hareton, it's Nelly! Nelly, thy nurse
I am come to see thy father, Hareton
Who has taught you those fine words, my bairn
The curate
Damn the curate, and thee! Gie me that
Tell us where you got your lessons, and you shall have it
Who's your master
Devil daddy
And what do you learn from daddy
What does he teach you
Naught
but to keep out of his gait. Daddy cannot bide me, because I swear at him
Ah! and the devil teaches you to swear at daddy
Ay - nay
Who, then
Heathcliff
I asked if he liked Mr. Heathcliff
Ay
I known't: he pays dad back what he gies to me - he curses daddy for cursing me. He says I mun do as I will
And the curate does not teach you to read and write, then
No, I was told the curate should have his - teeth dashed down his - throat, if he stepped over the threshold - Heathcliff had promised that
Judas! Traitor
You are a hypocrite, too, are you? A deliberate deceiver
Who is, Nelly
Your worthless friend
the sneaking rascal yonder. Ah, he has caught a glimpse of us - he is coming in! I wonder will he have the heart to find a plausible excuse for making love to Miss, when he told you he hated her
To hear you, people might think you were the mistress
You want setting down in your right place! Heathcliff, what are you about, raising this stir? I said you must let Isabella alone! - I beg you will, unless you are tired of being received here, and wish Linton to draw the bolts against you
God forbid that he should try
God keep him meek and patient! Every day I grow madder after sending him to heaven
Hush
Don't vex me. Why have you disregarded my request? Did she come across you on purpose
What is it to you
I have a right to kiss her, if she chooses; and you have no right to object. I am not YOUR husband: YOU needn't be jealous of me
I'm not jealous of you
And would Mr. Linton approve of his sister marrying that man
Mr. Linton should approve
He might spare himself the trouble
I could do as well without his approbation. And as to you, Catherine, I have a mind to speak a few words now, while we are at it. I want you to be aware that I KNOW you have treated me infernally - infernally! Do you hear? And if you flatter yourself that I don't perceive it, you are a fool; and if you think I can be consoled by sweet words, you are an idiot: and if you fancy I'll suffer unrevenged, I'll convince you of the contrary, in a very little while! Meantime, thank you for telling me your sister-in-law's secret: I swear I'll make the most of it. And stand you aside
What new phase of his character is this
I've treated you infernally - and you'll take your revenge! How will you take it, ungrateful brute? How have I treated you infernally
I seek no revenge on you
That's not the plan. The tyrant grinds down his slaves and they don't turn against him; they crush those beneath them. You are welcome to torture me to death for your amusement, only allow me to amuse myself a little in the same style, and refrain from insult as much as you are able. Having levelled my palace, don't erect a hovel and complacently admire your own charity in giving me that for a home. If I imagined you really wished me to marry Isabel, I'd cut my throat
Oh, the evil is that I am NOT jealous, is it
Well, I won't repeat my offer of a wife: it is as bad as offering Satan a lost soul. Your bliss lies, like his, in inflicting misery. You prove it. Edgar is restored from the ill-temper he gave way to at your coming; I begin to be secure and tranquil; and you, restless to know us at peace, appear resolved on exciting a quarrel. Quarrel with Edgar, if you please, Heathcliff, and deceive his sister: you'll hit on exactly the most efficient method of revenging yourself on me
Ellen
have you seen your mistress
Yes; she's in the kitchen, sir
She's sadly put out by Mr. Heathcliff's behaviour: and, indeed, I do think it's time to arrange his visits on another footing. There's harm in being too soft, and now it's come to this
This is insufferable
It is disgraceful that she should own him for a friend, and force his company on me! Call me two men out of the hall, Ellen. Catherine shall linger no longer to argue with the low ruffian - I have humoured her enough
How is this
what notion of propriety must you have to remain here, after the language which has been held to you by that blackguard? I suppose, because it is his ordinary talk you think nothing of it: you are habituated to his baseness, and, perhaps, imagine I can get used to it too
Have you been listening at the door, Edgar
I've been so far forbearing with you, sir
Cathy, this lamb of yours threatens like a bull
It is in danger of splitting its skull against my knuckles. By God! Mr. Linton, I'm mortally sorry that you are not worth knocking down
Fair means
If you have not courage to attack him, make an apology, or allow yourself to be beaten. It will correct you of feigning more valour than you possess. No, I'll swallow the key before you shall get it! I'm delightfully rewarded for my kindness to each! After constant indulgence of one's weak nature, and the other's bad one, I earn for thanks two samples of blind ingratitude, stupid to absurdity! Edgar, I was defending you and yours; and I wish Heathcliff may flog you sick, for daring to think an evil thought of me
Oh, heavens! In old days this would win you knighthood
I wish you joy of the milk-blooded coward, Cathy
I compliment you on your taste. And that is the slavering, shivering thing you preferred to me! I would not strike him with my fist, but I'd kick him with my foot, and experience considerable satisfaction. Is he weeping, or is he going to faint for fear
There! you've done with coming here
Get away, now; he'll return with a brace of pistols and half-a-dozen assistants. If he did overhear us, of course he'd never forgive you. You've played me an ill turn, Heathcliff! But go - make haste! I'd rather see Edgar at bay than you
Do you suppose I'm going with that blow burning in my gullet
By hell, no! I'll crush his ribs in like a rotten hazel-nut before I cross the threshold! If I don't floor him now, I shall murder him some time; so, as you value his existence, let me get at him
He is not coming
There's the coachman and the two gardeners; you'll surely not wait to be thrust into the road by them! Each has a bludgeon; and master will, very likely, be watching from the parlour-windows to see that they fulfil his orders
I'm nearly distracted, Nelly
A thousand smiths' hammers are beating in my head! Tell Isabella to shun me; this uproar is owing to her; and should she or any one else aggravate my anger at present, I shall get wild. And, Nelly, say to Edgar, if you see him again to-night, that I'm in danger of being seriously ill. I wish it may prove true. He has startled and distressed me shockingly! I want to frighten him. Besides, he might come and begin a string of abuse or complainings; I'm certain I should recriminate, and God knows where we should end! Will you do so, my good Nelly? You are aware that I am no way blamable in this matter. What possessed him to turn listener? Heathcliff's talk was outrageous, after you left us; but I could soon have diverted him from Isabella, and the rest meant nothing. Now all is dashed wrong; by the fool's craving to hear evil of self, that haunts some people like a demon! Had Edgar never gathered our conversation, he would never have been the worse for it. Really, when he opened on me in that unreasonable tone of displeasure after I had scolded Heathcliff till I was hoarse for him, I did not care hardly what they did to each other; especially as I felt that, however the scene closed, we should all be driven asunder for nobody knows how long! Well, if I cannot keep Heathcliff for my friend - if Edgar will be mean and jealous, I'll try to break their hearts by breaking my own. That will be a prompt way of finishing all, when I am pushed to extremity! But it's a deed to be reserved for a forlorn hope; I'd not take Linton by surprise with it. To this point he has been discreet in dreading to provoke me; you must represent the peril of quitting that policy, and remind him of my passionate temper, verging, when kindled, on frenzy. I wish you could dismiss that apathy out of that countenance, and look rather more anxious about me
Remain where you are, Catherine
Oh, for mercy's sake
for mercy's sake, let us hear no more of it now! Your cold blood cannot be worked into a fever: your veins are full of ice- water; but mine are boiling, and the sight of such chillness makes them dance
To get rid of me, answer my question
You must answer it; and that violence does not alarm me. I have found that you can be as stoical as anyone, when you please. Will you give up Heathcliff hereafter, or will you give up me? It is impossible for you to be MY friend and HIS at the same time; and I absolutely REQUIRE to know which you choose
I require to be let alone
I demand it! Don't you see I can scarcely stand? Edgar, you - you leave me
There is nothing in the world the matter
She has blood on her lips
Never mind
No
Oh, I will die
since no one cares anything about me. I wish I had not taken that
No, I'll not die - he'd be glad - he does not love me at all - he would never miss me
Did you want anything, ma'am
What is that apathetic being doing
Has he fallen into a lethargy, or is he dead
Neither
if you mean Mr. Linton. He's tolerably well, I think, though his studies occupy him rather more than they ought: he is continually among his books, since he has no other society
Among his books
And I dying! I on the brink of the grave! My God! does he know how I'm altered
Is that Catherine Linton? He imagines me in a pet - in play, perhaps. Cannot you inform him that it is frightful earnest? Nelly, if it be not too late, as soon as I learn how he feels, I'll choose between these two: either to starve at once - that would be no punishment unless he had a heart - or to recover, and leave the country. Are you speaking the truth about him now? Take care. Is he actually so utterly indifferent for my life
Why, ma'am
the master has no idea of your being deranged; and of course he does not fear that you will let yourself die of hunger
You think not? Cannot you tell him I will
Persuade him! speak of your own mind: say you are certain I will
No, you forget, Mrs. Linton
that you have eaten some food with a relish this evening, and to-morrow you will perceive its good effects
If I were only sure it would kill him
I'd kill myself directly! These three awful nights I've never closed my lids - and oh, I've been tormented! I've been haunted, Nelly! But I begin to fancy you don't like me. How strange! I thought, though everybody hated and despised each other, they could not avoid loving me. And they have all turned to enemies in a few hours: they have, I'm positive; the people here. How dreary to meet death, surrounded by their cold faces! Isabella, terrified and repelled, afraid to enter the room, it would be so dreadful to watch Catherine go. And Edgar standing solemnly by to see it over; then offering prayers of thanks to God for restoring peace to his house, and going back to his BOOKS! What in the name of all that feels has he to do with BOOKS, when I am dying
That's a turkey's
and this is a wild duck's; and this is a pigeon's. Ah, they put pigeons' feathers in the pillows - no wonder I couldn't die! Let me take care to throw it on the floor when I lie down. And here is a moor-cock's; and this - I should know it among a thousand - it's a lapwing's. Bonny bird; wheeling over our heads in the middle of the moor. It wanted to get to its nest, for the clouds had touched the swells, and it felt rain coming. This feather was picked up from the heath, the bird was not shot: we saw its nest in the winter, full of little skeletons. Heathcliff set a trap over it, and the old ones dared not come. I made him promise he'd never shoot a lapwing after that, and he didn't. Yes, here are more! Did he shoot my lapwings, Nelly? Are they red, any of them? Let me look
Give over with that baby-work
Lie down and shut your eyes: you're wandering. There's a mess! The down is flying about like snow
I see in you, Nelly
an aged woman: you have grey hair and bent shoulders. This bed is the fairy cave under Penistone crags, and you are gathering elf-bolts to hurt our heifers; pretending, while I am near, that they are only locks of wool. That's what you'll come to fifty years hence: I know you are not so now. I'm not wandering: you're mistaken, or else I should believe you really WERE that withered hag, and I should think I WAS under Penistone Crags; and I'm conscious it's night, and there are two candles on the table making the black press shine like jet
The black press? where is that
You are talking in your sleep
It's against the wall, as it always is
It DOES appear odd - I see a face in it
There's no press in the room, and never was
Don't YOU see that face
It's behind there still
And it stirred. Who is it? I hope it will not come out when you are gone! Oh! Nelly, the room is haunted! I'm afraid of being alone
There's nobody here
It was YOURSELF, Mrs. Linton: you knew it a while since
Myself
and the clock is striking twelve! It's true, then! that's dreadful
Why, what is the matter
Who is coward now? Wake up! That is the glass - the mirror, Mrs. Linton; and you see yourself in it, and there am I too by your side
Oh, dear! I thought I was at home
I thought I was lying in my chamber at Wuthering Heights. Because I'm weak, my brain got confused, and I screamed unconsciously. Don't say anything; but stay with me. I dread sleeping: my dreams appal me
A sound sleep would do you good, ma'am
and I hope this suffering will prevent your trying starving again
Oh, if I were but in my own bed in the old house
And that wind sounding in the firs by the lattice. Do let me feel it - it comes straight down the moor - do let me have one breath
How long is it since I shut myself in here
It was Monday evening
and this is Thursday night, or rather Friday morning, at present
What! of the same week
Only that brief time
Long enough to live on nothing but cold water and ill-temper
Well, it seems a weary number of hours
it must be more. I remember being in the parlour after they had quarrelled, and Edgar being cruelly provoking, and me running into this room desperate. As soon as ever I had barred the door, utter blackness overwhelmed me, and I fell on the floor. I couldn't explain to Edgar how certain I felt of having a fit, or going raging mad, if he persisted in teasing me! I had no command of tongue, or brain, and he did not guess my agony, perhaps: it barely left me sense to try to escape from him and his voice. Before I recovered sufficiently to see and hear, it began to be dawn, and, Nelly, I'll tell you what I thought, and what has kept recurring and recurring till I feared for my reason. I thought as I lay there, with my head against that table leg, and my eyes dimly discerning the grey square of the window, that I was enclosed in the oak-panelled bed at home; and my heart ached with some great grief which, just waking, I could not recollect. I pondered, and worried myself to discover what it could be, and, most strangely, the whole last seven years of my life grew a blank! I did not recall that they had been at all. I was a child; my father was just buried, and my misery arose from the separation that Hindley had ordered between me and Heathcliff. I was laid alone, for the first time; and, rousing from a dismal doze after a night of weeping, I lifted my hand to push the panels aside: it struck the table-top! I swept it along the carpet, and then memory burst in: my late anguish was swallowed in a paroxysm of despair. I cannot say why I felt so wildly wretched: it must have been temporary derangement; for there is scarcely cause. But, supposing at twelve years old I had been wrenched from the Heights, and every early association, and my all in all, as Heathcliff was at that time, and been converted at a stroke into Mrs. Linton, the lady of Thrushcross Grange, and the wife of a stranger: an exile, and outcast, thenceforth, from what had been my world. You may fancy a glimpse of the abyss where I grovelled! Shake your head as you will, Nelly, you have helped to unsettle me! You should have spoken to Edgar, indeed you should, and compelled him to leave me quiet! Oh, I'm burning! I wish I were out of doors! I wish I were a girl again, half savage and hardy, and free; and laughing at injuries, not maddening under them! Why am I so changed? why does my blood rush into a hell of tumult at a few words? I'm sure I should be myself were I once among the heather on those hills. Open the window again wide: fasten it open! Quick, why don't you move
Because I won't give you your death of cold
You won't give me a chance of life, you mean
However, I'm not helpless yet; I'll open it myself
Look
that's my room with the candle in it, and the trees swaying before it; and the other candle is in Joseph's garret. Joseph sits up late, doesn't he? He's waiting till I come home that he may lock the gate. Well, he'll wait a while yet. It's a rough journey, and a sad heart to travel it; and we must pass by Gimmerton Kirk to go that journey! We've braved its ghosts often together, and dared each other to stand among the graves and ask them to come. But, Heathcliff, if I dare you now, will you venture? If you do, I'll keep you. I'll not lie there by myself: they may bury me twelve feet deep, and throw the church down over me, but I won't rest till you are with me. I never will
He's considering - he'd rather I'd come to him! Find a way, then! not through that kirkyard. You are slow! Be content, you always followed me
Oh, sir
My poor mistress is ill, and she quite masters me: I cannot manage her at all; pray, come and persuade her to go to bed. Forget your anger, for she's hard to guide any way but her own
Catherine ill
She's been fretting here
and eating scarcely anything, and never complaining: she would admit none of us till this evening, and so we couldn't inform you of her state, as we were not aware of it ourselves; but it is nothing
It is nothing, is it, Ellen Dean
You shall account more clearly for keeping me ignorant of this
Ah! you are come, are you, Edgar Linton
You are one of those things that are ever found when least wanted, and when you are wanted, never! I suppose we shall have plenty of lamentations now - I see we shall - but they can't keep me from my narrow home out yonder: my resting-place, where I'm bound before spring is over! There it is: not among the Lintons, mind, under the chapel-roof, but in the open air, with a head-stone; and you may please yourself whether you go to them or come to me
Catherine, what have you done
Hush
Hush, this moment! You mention that name and I end the matter instantly by a spring from the window! What you touch at present you may have; but my soul will be on that hill-top before you lay hands on me again. I don't want you, Edgar: I'm past wanting you. Return to your books. I'm glad you possess a consolation, for all you had in me is gone
Her mind wanders, sir
She has been talking nonsense the whole evening; but let her have quiet, and proper attendance, and she'll rally. Hereafter, we must be cautious how we vex her
I desire no further advice from you
You knew your mistress's nature, and you encouraged me to harass her. And not to give me one hint of how she has been these three days! It was heartless! Months of sickness could not cause such a change
I knew Mrs. Linton's nature to be headstrong and domineering
but I didn't know that you wished to foster her fierce temper! I didn't know that, to humour her, I should wink at Mr. Heathcliff. I performed the duty of a faithful servant in telling you, and I have got a faithful servant's wages! Well, it will teach me to be careful next time. Next time you may gather intelligence for yourself
The next time you bring a tale to me you shall quit my service, Ellen Dean
You'd rather hear nothing about it, I suppose, then, Mr. Linton
Heathcliff has your permission to come a-courting to Miss, and to drop in at every opportunity your absence offers, on purpose to poison the mistress against you
Ah! Nelly has played traitor
Nelly is my hidden enemy. You witch! So you do seek elf-bolts to hurt us! Let me go, and I'll make her rue! I'll make her howl a recantation
Nelly Dean
I can't help fancying there's an extra cause for this. What has there been to do at the Grange? We've odd reports up here. A stout, hearty lass like Catherine does not fall ill for a trifle; and that sort of people should not either. It's hard work bringing them through fevers, and such things. How did it begin
The master will inform you
but you are acquainted with the Earnshaws' violent dispositions, and Mrs. Linton caps them all. I may say this; it commenced in a quarrel. She was struck during a tempest of passion with a kind of fit. That's her account, at least: for she flew off in the height of it, and locked herself up. Afterwards, she refused to eat, and now she alternately raves and remains in a half dream; knowing those about her, but having her mind filled with all sorts of strange ideas and illusions
Mr. Linton will be sorry
Sorry? he'll break his heart should anything happen
Don't alarm him more than necessary
Well, I told him to beware
and he must bide the consequences of neglecting my warning! Hasn't he been intimate with Mr. Heathcliff lately
Heathcliff frequently visits at the Grange
though more on the strength of the mistress having known him when a boy, than because the master likes his company. At present he's discharged from the trouble of calling; owing to some presumptuous aspirations after Miss Linton which he manifested. I hardly think he'll be taken in again
And does Miss Linton turn a cold shoulder on him
I'm not in her confidence
No, she's a sly one
She keeps her own counsel! But she's a real little fool. I have it from good authority that last night (and a pretty night it was!) she and Heathcliff were walking in the plantation at the back of your house above two hours; and he pressed her not to go in again, but just mount his horse and away with him! My informant said she could only put him off by pledging her word of honour to be prepared on their first meeting after that: when it was to be he didn't hear; but you urge Mr. Linton to look sharp
Hold your noise
Speak lower, Mary - What is the matter
What ails your young lady
She's gone, she's gone! Yon' Heathcliff's run off wi' her
That is not true
It cannot be: how has the idea entered your head? Ellen Dean, go and seek her. It is incredible: it cannot be
Why, I met on the road a lad that fetches milk here
and he asked whether we weren't in trouble at the Grange. I thought he meant for missis's sickness, so I answered, yes. Then says he, "There's somebody gone after 'em, I guess?" I stared. He saw I knew nought about it, and he told how a gentleman and lady had stopped to have a horse's shoe fastened at a blacksmith's shop, two miles out of Gimmerton, not very long after midnight! and how the blacksmith's lass had got up to spy who they were: she knew them both directly. And she noticed the man - Heathcliff it was, she felt certainnob'd: y could mistake him, besides - put a sovereign in her father's hand for payment. The lady had a cloak about her face; but having desired a sup of water, while she drank it fell back, and she saw her very plain. Heathcliff held both bridles as they rode on, and they set their faces from the village, and went as fast as the rough roads would let them. The lass said nothing to her father, but she told it all over Gimmerton this morning
Are we to try any measures for overtaking and bringing her back
How should we do
She went of her own accord
she had a right to go if she pleased. Trouble me no more about her. Hereafter she is only my sister in name: not because I disown her, but because she has disowned me
These are the earliest flowers at the Heights
They remind me of soft thaw winds, and warm sunshine, and nearly melted snow. Edgar, is there not a south wind, and is not the snow almost gone
The snow is quite gone down here, darling
and I only see two white spots on the whole range of moors: the sky is blue, and the larks are singing, and the becks and brooks are all brim full. Catherine, last spring at this time, I was longing to have you under this roof; now, I wish you were a mile or two up those hills: the air blows so sweetly, I feel that it would cure you
I shall never be there but once more
and then you'll leave me, and I shall remain for ever. Next spring you'll long again to have me under this roof, and you'll look back and think you were happy to-day
This is Edgar's legal nephew
mine in a manner; I must shake hands, and - yes - I must kiss him. It is right to establish a good understanding at the beginning
How do you do, my dear
Shall you and I be friends, Hareton
Hey, Throttler, lad
Now, wilt thou be ganging
Mim! mim! mim! Did iver Christian body hear aught like it? Mincing un' munching! How can I tell whet ye say
I say, I wish you to come with me into the house
None o' me! I getten summut else to do
What's your business here
Who are you
My name was Isabella Linton
You've seen me before, sir. I'm lately married to Mr. Heathcliff, and he has brought me here - I suppose, by your permission
Is he come back, then
Yes - we came just now
but he left me by the kitchen door; and when I would have gone in, your little boy played sentinel over the place, and frightened me off by the help of a bull-dog
It's well the hellish villain has kept his word
I'm tired with my journey, and I want to go to bed! Where is the maid-servant? Direct me to her, as she won't come to me
We have none
you must wait on yourself
Where must I sleep, then
Joseph will show you Heathcliff's chamber
open that door - he's in there
Be so good as to turn your lock, and draw your bolt - don't omit it
Well
But why, Mr. Earnshaw
Look here
That's a great tempter to a desperate man, is it not? I cannot resist going up with this every night, and trying his door. If once I find it open he's done for; I do it invariably, even though the minute before I have been recalling a hundred reasons that should make me refrain: it is some devil that urges me to thwart my own schemes by killing him. You fight against that devil for love as long as you may; when the time comes, not all the angels in heaven shall save him
I don't care if you tell him
Put him on his guard, and watch for him. You know the terms we are on, I see: his danger does not shock you
What has Heathcliff done to you
In what has he wronged you, to warrant this appalling hatred? Wouldn't it be wiser to bid him quit the house
No
should he offer to leave me, he's a dead man: persuade him to attempt it, and you are a murderess! Am I to lose ALL, without a chance of retrieval? Is Hareton to be a beggar? Oh, damnation! I WILL have it back; and I'll have HIS gold too; and then his blood; and hell shall have his soul! It will be ten times blacker with that guest than ever it was before
I'LL make the porridge
Mr. Earnshaw
directs me to wait on myself: I will. I'm not going to act the lady among you, for fear I should starve
Gooid Lord
If there's to be fresh ortherings - just when I getten used to two maisters, if I mun hev' a MISTRESS set o'er my heead, it's like time to be flitting. I niver DID think to see t' day that I mud lave th' owld place - but I doubt it's nigh at hand
Thear
Hareton, thou willn't sup thy porridge to-neeght; they'll be naught but lumps as big as my neive. Thear, agean! I'd fling in bowl un' all, if I wer ye! There, pale t' guilp off, un' then ye'll hae done wi' 't. Bang, bang. It's a mercy t' bothom isn't deaved out
the barn was every bit as good' as I, 'and every bit as wollsome
I shall have my supper in another room
Have you no place you call a parlour
PARLOUR
PARLOUR! Nay, we've noa PARLOURS. If yah dunnut loike wer company, there's maister's; un' if yah dunnut loike maister, there's us
Then I shall go up-stairs
show me a chamber
Here's a rahm
It's weel eneugh to ate a few porridge in. There's a pack o' corn i' t' corner, thear, meeterly clane; if ye're feared o' muckying yer grand silk cloes, spread yer hankerchir o' t' top on't
Why, man
this is not a place to sleep in. I wish to see my bed-room
BED-RUME
Yah's see all t' BED-RUMES thear is - yon's mine
What do I want with yours
I suppose Mr. Heathcliff does not lodge at the top of the house, does he
Oh! it's Maister HATHECLIFF'S ye're wanting
Couldn't ye ha' said soa, at onst? un' then, I mud ha' telled ye, baht all this wark, that that's just one ye cannut see - he allas keeps it locked, un' nob'dy iver mells on't but hisseln
You've a nice house, Joseph
and pleasant inmates; and I think the concentrated essence of all the madness in the world took up its abode in my brain the day I linked my fate with theirs! However, that is not to the present purpose - there are other rooms. For heaven's sake be quick, and let me settle somewhere
This here is t' maister's
Whear the divil
The Lord bless us! The Lord forgie us! Whear the HELL wdd ye gang? ye marred, wearisome nowt! Ye've seen all but Hareton's bit of a cham'er. There's not another hoile to lig down in i' th' hahse
Ech! ech
They's rahm for boath ye un' yer pride, now, I sud think i' the hahse. It's empty; ye may hev' it all to yerseln, un' Him as allus maks a third, i' sich ill company
Forgiveness
I have nothing to forgive her, Ellen. You may call at Wuthering Heights this afternoon, if you like, and say that I am not angry, but I'm sorry to have lost her; especially as I can never think she'll be happy. It is out of the question my going to see her, however: we are eternally divided; and should she really wish to oblige me, let her persuade the villain she has married to leave the country
And you won't write her a little note, sir
No
It is needless. My communication with Heathcliff's family shall be as sparing as his with mine. It shall not exist
If you have got anything for Isabella (as no doubt you have, Nelly), give it to her. You needn't make a secret of it: we have no secrets between us
Oh, I have nothing
My master bid me tell his sister that she must not expect either a letter or a visit from him at present. He sends his love, ma'am, and his wishes for your happiness, and his pardon for the grief you have occasioned; but he thinks that after this time his household and the household here should drop intercommunication, as nothing could come of keeping it up
Mrs. Linton is now just recovering
she'll never be like she was, but her life is spared; and if you really have a regard for her, you'll shun crossing her way again: nay, you'll move out of this country entirely; and that you may not regret it, I'll inform you Catherine Linton is as different now from your old friend Catherine Earnshaw, as that young lady is different from me. Her appearance is changed greatly, her character much more so; and the person who is compelled, of necessity, to be her companion, will only sustain his affection hereafter by the remembrance of what she once was, by common humanity, and a sense of duty
That is quite possible
quite possible that your master should have nothing but common humanity and a sense of duty to fall back upon. But do you imagine that I shall leave Catherine to his DUTY and HUMANITY? and can you compare my feelings respecting Catherine to his? Before you leave this house, I must exact a promise from you that you'll get me an interview with her: consent, or refuse, I WILL see her! What do you say
I say, Mr. Heathcliff
you must not: you never shall, through my means. Another encounter between you and the master would kill her altogether
With your aid that may be avoided
and should there be danger of such an event - should he be the cause of adding a single trouble more to her existence - why, I think I shall be justified in going to extremes! I wish you had sincerity enough to tell me whether Catherine would suffer greatly from his loss: the fear that she would restrains me. And there you see the distinction between our feelings: had he been in my place, and I in his, though I hated him with a hatred that turned my life to gall, I never would have raised a hand against him. You may look incredulous, if you please! I never would have banished him from her society as long as she desired his. The moment her regard ceased, I would have torn his heart out, and drunk his blood! But, till then - if you don't believe me, you don't know me - till then, I would have died by inches before I touched a single hair of his head
And yet
you have no scruples in completely ruining all hopes of her perfect restoration, by thrusting yourself into her remembrance now, when she has nearly forgotten you, and involving her in a new tumult of discord and distress
You suppose she has nearly forgotten me
Oh, Nelly! you know she has not! You know as well as I do, that for every thought she spends on Linton she spends a thousand on me! At a most miserable period of my life, I had a notion of the kind: it haunted me on my return to the neighbourhood last summer; but only her own assurance could make me admit the horrible idea again. And then, Linton would be nothing, nor Hindley, nor all the dreams that ever I dreamt. Two words would comprehend my future - DEATH and HELL: existence, after losing her, would be hell. Yet I was a fool to fancy for a moment that she valued Edgar Linton's attachment more than mine. If he loved with all the powers of his puny being, he couldn't love as much in eighty years as I could in a day. And Catherine has a heart as deep as I have: the sea could be as readily contained in that horse-trough as her whole affection be monopolised by him. Tush! He is scarcely a degree dearer to her than her dog, or her horse. It is not in him to be loved like me: how can she love in him what he has not
Catherine and Edgar are as fond of each other as any two people can be
No one has a right to talk in that manner, and I won't hear my brother depreciated in silence
Your brother is wondrous fond of you too, isn't he
He turns you adrift on the world with surprising alacrity
He is not aware of what I suffer
I didn't tell him that
You have been telling him something, then: you have written, have you
To say that I was married, I did write - you saw the note
And nothing since
No
My young lady is looking sadly the worse for her change of condition
Somebody's love comes short in her case, obviously; whose, I may guess; but, perhaps, I shouldn't say
I should guess it was her own
She degenerates into a mere slut! She is tired of trying to please me uncommonly early. You'd hardly credit it, but the very morrow of our wedding she was weeping to go home. However, she'll suit this house so much the better for not being over nice, and I'll take care she does not disgrace me by rambling abroad
Well, sir
I hope you'll consider that Mrs. Heathcliff is accustomed to be looked after and waited on; and that she has been brought up like an only daughter, whom every one was ready to serve. You must let her have a maid to keep things tidy about her, and you must treat her kindly. Whatever be your notion of Mr. Edgar, you cannot doubt that she has a capacity for strong attachments, or she wouldn't have abandoned the elegancies, and comforts, and friends of her former home, to fix contentedly, in such a wilderness as this, with you
She abandoned them under a delusion
picturing in me a hero of romance, and expecting unlimited indulgences from my chivalrous devotion. I can hardly regard her in the light of a rational creature, so obstinately has she persisted in forming a fabulous notion of my character and acting on the false impressions she cherished. But, at last, I think she begins to know me: I don't perceive the silly smiles and grimaces that provoked me at first; and the senseless incapability of discerning that I was in earnest when I gave her my opinion of her infatuation and herself. It was a marvellous effort of perspicacity to discover that I did not love her. I believed, at one time, no lessons could teach her that! And yet it is poorly learnt; for this morning she announced, as a piece of appalling intelligence, that I had actually succeeded in making her hate me! A positive labour of Hercules, I assure you! If it be achieved, I have cause to return thanks. Can I trust your assertion, Isabella? Are you sure you hate me? If I let you alone for half a day, won't you come sighing and wheedling to me again? I daresay she would rather I had seemed all tenderness before you: it wounds her vanity to have the truth exposed. But I don't care who knows that the passion was wholly on one side: and I never told her a lie about it. She cannot accuse me of showing one bit of deceitful softness. The first thing she saw me do, on coming out of the Grange, was to hang up her little dog; and when she pleaded for it, the first words I uttered were a wish that I had the hanging of every being belonging to her, except one: possibly she took that exception for herself. But no brutality disgusted her: I suppose she has an innate admiration of it, if only her precious person were secure from injury! Now, was it not the depth of absurdity - of genuine idiotcy, for that pitiful, slavish, mean-minded brach to dream that I could love her? Tell your master, Nelly, that I never, in all my life, met with such an abject thing as she is. She even disgraces the name of Linton; and I've sometimes relented, from pure lack of invention, in my experiments on what she could endure, and still creep shamefully cringing back! But tell him, also, to set his fraternal and magisterial heart at ease: that I keep strictly within the limits of the law. I have avoided, up to this period, giving her the slightest right to claim a separation; and, what's more, she'd thank nobody for dividing us. If she desired to go, she might: the nuisance of her presence outweighs the gratification to be derived from tormenting her
Mr. Heathcliff
this is the talk of a madman; your wife, most likely, is convinced you are mad; and, for that reason, she has borne with you hitherto: but now that you say she may go, she'll doubtless avail herself of the permission. You are not so bewitched, ma'am, are you, as to remain with him of your own accord
Take care, Ellen
There - that will do for the present
If you are called upon in a court of law, you'll remember her language, Nelly! And take a good look at that countenance: she's near the point which would suit me. No; you're not fit to be your own guardian, Isabella, now; and I, being your legal protector, must retain you in my custody, however distasteful the obligation may be. Go up-stairs; I have something to say to Ellen Dean in private. That's not the way: up-stairs, I tell you! Why, this is the road upstairs, child
I have no pity! I have no pity! The more the worms writhe, the more I yearn to crush out their entrails! It is a moral teething; and I grind with greater energy in proportion to the increase of pain
Do you understand what the word pity means
Did you ever feel a touch of it in your life
Put that down
You are not going yet. Come here now, Nelly: I must either persuade or compel you to aid me in fulfilling my determination to see Catherine, and that without delay. I swear that I meditate no harm: I don't desire to cause any disturbance, or to exasperate or insult Mr. Linton; I only wish to hear from herself how she is, and why she has been ill; and to ask if anything that I could do would be of use to her. Last night I was in the Grange garden six hours, and I'll return there to-night; and every night I'll haunt the place, and every day, till I find an opportunity of entering. If Edgar Linton meets me, I shall not hesitate to knock him down, and give him enough to insure his quiescence while I stay. If his servants oppose me, I shall threaten them off with these pistols. But wouldn't it be better to prevent my coming in contact with them, or their master? And you could do it so easily. I'd warn you when I came, and then you might let me in unobserved, as soon as she was alone, and watch till I departed, your conscience quite calm: you would be hindering mischief
The commonest occurrence startles her painfully
She's all nerves, and she couldn't bear the surprise, I'm positive. Don't persist, sir! or else I shall be obliged to inform my master of your designs; and he'll take measures to secure his house and its inmates from any such unwarrantable intrusions
In that case I'll take measures to secure you, woman
you shall not leave Wuthering Heights till to-morrow morning. It is a foolish story to assert that Catherine could not bear to see me; and as to surprising her, I don't desire it: you must prepare her - ask her if I may come. You say she never mentions my name, and that I am never mentioned to her. To whom should she mention me if I am a forbidden topic in the house? She thinks you are all spies for her husband. Oh, I've no doubt she's in hell among you! I guess by her silence, as much as anything, what she feels. You say she is often restless, and anxious- looking: is that a proof of tranquillity? You talk of her mind being unsettled. How the devil could it be otherwise in her frightful isolation? And that insipid, paltry creature attending her from DUTY and HUMANITY! From PITY and CHARITY! He might as well plant an oak in a flower-pot, and expect it to thrive, as imagine he can restore her to vigour in the soil of his shallow cares? Let us settle it at once: will you stay here, and am I to fight my way to Catherine over Linton and his footman? Or will you be my friend, as you have been hitherto, and do what I request? Decide! because there is no reason for my lingering another minute, if you persist in your stubborn ill-nature
There's a letter for you, Mrs. Linton
You must read it immediately, because it wants an answer. Shall I break the seal
Yes
Now
read it
Must I read it, ma'am? It is from Mr. Heathcliff
Well, he wishes to see you
He's in the garden by this time, and impatient to know what answer I shall bring
Oh, Cathy! Oh, my life! how can I bear it
What now
You and Edgar have broken my heart, Heathcliff! And you both come to bewail the deed to me, as if you were the people to be pitied! I shall not pity you, not I. You have killed me - and thriven on it, I think. How strong you are! How many years do you mean to live after I am gone
I wish I could hold you
till we were both dead! I shouldn't care what you suffered. I care nothing for your sufferings. Why shouldn't you suffer? I do! Will you forget me? Will you be happy when I am in the earth? Will you say twenty years hence, "That's the grave of Catherine Earnshaw? I loved her long ago, and was wretched to lose her; but it is past. I've loved many others since: my children are dearer to me than she was; and, at death, I shall not rejoice that I are going to her: I shall be sorry that I must leave them!" Will you say so, Heathcliff
Don't torture me till I'm as mad as yourself
Are you possessed with a devil
to talk in that manner to me when you are dying? Do you reflect that all those words will be branded in my memory, and eating deeper eternally after you have left me? You know you lie to say I have killed you: and, Catherine, you know that I could as soon forget you as my existence! Is it not sufficient for your infernal selfishness, that while you are at peace I shall writhe in the torments of hell
I shall not be at peace
I'm not wishing you greater torment than I have, Heathcliff. I only wish us never to be parted: and should a word of mine distress you hereafter, think I feel the same distress underground, and for my own sake, forgive me! Come here and kneel down again! You never harmed me in your life. Nay, if you nurse anger, that will be worse to remember than my harsh words! Won't you come here again? Do
Oh, you see, Nelly, he would not relent a moment to keep me out of the grave. THAT is how I'm loved! Well, never mind. That is not MY Heathcliff. I shall love mine yet; and take him with me: he's in my soul. And
the thing that irks me most is this shattered prison, after all. I'm tired of being enclosed here. I'm wearying to escape into that glorious world, and to be always there: not seeing it dimly through tears, and yearning for it through the walls of an aching heart: but really with it, and in it. Nelly, you think you are better and more fortunate than I; in full health and strength: you are sorry for me - very soon that will be altered. I shall be sorry for YOU. I shall be incomparably beyond and above you all. I WONDER he won't be near me
I thought he wished it. Heathcliff, dear! you should not be sullen now. Do come to me, Heathcliff
You teach me now how cruel you've been - cruel and false. WHY did you despise me? WHY did you betray your own heart, Cathy? I have not one word of comfort. You deserve this. You have killed yourself. Yes, you may kiss me, and cry; and wring out my kisses and tears: they'll blight you - they'll damn you. You loved me - then what RIGHT had you to leave me? What right - answer me - for the poor fancy you felt for Linton? Because misery and degradation, and death, and nothing that God or Satan could inflict would have parted us, YOU, of your own will, did it. I have not broken your heart - YOU have broken it; and in breaking it, you have broken mine. So much the worse for me that I am strong. Do I want to live? What kind of living will it be when you - oh, God! would YOU like to live with your soul in the grave
Let me alone. Let me alone
If I've done wrong, I'm dying for it. It is enough! You left me too: but I won't upbraid you! I forgive you. Forgive me
It is hard to forgive, and to look at those eyes, and feel those wasted hands
Kiss me again; and don't let me see your eyes! I forgive what you have done to me. I love MY murderer - but YOURS! How can I
Service is over
My master will be here in half an hour
Now he is here
For heaven's sake, hurry down! You'll not meet any one on the front stairs. Do be quick; and stay among the trees till he is fairly in
I must go, Cathy
But if I live, I'll see you again before you are asleep. I won't stray five yards from your window
You must not go
You SHALL not, I tell you
For one hour
Not for one minute
I MUST - Linton will be up immediately
No
Oh, don't, don't go. It is the last time! Edgar will not hurt us. Heathcliff, I shall die! I shall die
Damn the fool! There he is
Hush, my darling! Hush, hush, Catherine! I'll stay. If he shot me so, I'd expire with a blessing on my lips
Are you going to listen to her ravings
She does not know what she says. Will you ruin her, because she has not wit to help herself? Get up! You could be free instantly. That is the most diabolical deed that ever you did. We are all done for - master, mistress, and servant
She's fainted, or dead
so much the better. Far better that she should be dead, than lingering a burden and a misery-maker to all about her
Look there
Unless you be a fiend, help her first - then you shall speak to me
I shall not refuse to go out of doors
but I shall stay in the garden: and, Nelly, mind you keep your word to-morrow. I shall be under those larch-trees. Mind! or I pay another visit, whether Linton be in or not
Incomparably beyond and above us all! Whether still on earth or now in heaven, her spirit is at home with God
She's dead
I've not waited for you to learn that. Put your handkerchief away - don't snivel before me. Damn you all! she wants none of your tears
Yes, she's dead
Gone to heaven, I hope; where we may, every one, join her, if we take due warning and leave our evil ways to follow good
Did SHE take due warning, then
Did she die like a saint? Come, give me a true history of the event. How did
How did she die
Poor wretch
you have a heart and nerves the same as your brother men! Why should you be anxious to conceal them? Your pride cannot blind God! You tempt him to wring them, till he forces a cry of humiliation
Quietly as a lamb
She drew a sigh, and stretched herself, like a child reviving, and sinking again to sleep; and five minutes after I felt one little pulse at her heart, and nothing more
And - did she ever mention me
Her senses never returned: she recognised nobody from the time you left her
She lies with a sweet smile on her face; and her latest ideas wandered back to pleasant early days. Her life closed in a gentle dream - may she wake as kindly in the other world
May she wake in torment
Why, she's a liar to the end! Where is she? Not THERE - not in heaven - not perished - where? Oh! you said you cared nothing for my sufferings! And I pray one prayer - I repeat it till my tongue stiffens - Catherine Earnshaw, may you not rest as long as I am living; you said I killed you - haunt me, then! The murdered DO haunt their murderers, I believe. I know that ghosts HAVE wandered on earth. Be with me always - take any form - drive me mad! only DO not leave me in this abyss, where I cannot find you! Oh, God! it is unutterable! I CANNOT live without my life! I CANNOT live without my soul
Have done! How dare you show your giddiness here; What would Mr. Linton say if he heard you
Excuse me
but I know Edgar is in bed, and I cannot stop myself
I have run the whole way from Wuthering Heights
except where I've flown. I couldn't count the number of falls I've had. Oh, I'm aching all over! Don't be alarmed! There shall be an explanation as soon as I can give it; only just have the goodness to step out and order the carriage to take me on to Gimmerton, and tell a servant to seek up a few clothes in my wardrobe
My dear young lady
I'll stir nowhere, and hear nothing, till you have removed every article of your clothes, and put on dry things; and certainly you shall not go to Gimmerton to- night, so it is needless to order the carriage
Certainly I shall
walking or riding: yet I've no objection to dress myself decently. And - ah, see how it flows down my neck now! The fire does make it smart
Now, Ellen
I'll smash it
and then I'll burn it
There! he shall buy another, if he gets me back again. He'd be capable of coming to seek me, to tease Edgar. I dare not stay, lest that notion should possess his wicked head! And besides, Edgar has not been kind, has he? And I won't come suing for his assistance; nor will I bring him into more trouble. Necessity compelled me to seek shelter here; though, if I had not learned he was out of the way, I'd have halted at the kitchen, washed my face, warmed myself, got you to bring what I wanted, and departed again to anywhere out of the reach of my accursed - of that incarnate goblin! Ah, he was in such a fury! If he had caught me! It's a pity Earnshaw is not his match in strength: I wouldn't have run till I'd seen him all but demolished, had Hindley been able to do it
Well, don't talk so fast, Miss
you'll disorder the handkerchief I have tied round your face, and make the cut bleed again. Drink your tea, and take breath, and give over laughing: laughter is sadly out of place under this roof, and in your condition
An undeniable truth
I ought, and I wished to remain
to cheer Edgar and take care of the baby, for two things, and because the Grange is my right home. But I tell you he wouldn't let me! Do you think he could bear to see me grow fat and merry - could bear to think that we were tranquil, and not resolve on poisoning our comfort? Now, I have the satisfaction of being sure that he detests me, to the point of its annoying him seriously to have me within ear-shot or eyesight: I notice, when I enter his presence, the muscles of his countenance are involuntarily distorted into an expression of hatred; partly arising from his knowledge of the good causes I have to feel that sentiment for him, and partly from original aversion. It is strong enough to make me feel pretty certain that he would not chase me over England, supposing I contrived a clear escape; and therefore I must get quite away. I've recovered from my first desire to be killed by him: I'd rather he'd kill himself! He has extinguished my love effectually, and so I'm at my ease. I can recollect yet how I loved him; and can dimly imagine that I could still be loving him, if - no, no! Even if he had doted on me, the devilish nature would have revealed its existence somehow. Catherine had an awfully perverted taste to esteem him so dearly, knowing him so well. Monster! would that he could be blotted out of creation, and out of my memory
Hush, hush! He's a human being
Be more charitable: there are worse men than he is yet
He's not a human being
and he has no claim on my charity. I gave him my heart, and he took and pinched it to death, and flung it back to me. People feel with their hearts, Ellen: and since he has destroyed mine, I have not power to feel for him: and I would not, though he groaned from this to his dying day, and wept tears of blood for Catherine! No, indeed, indeed, I wouldn't
Yesterday, you know, Mr. Earnshaw should have been at the funeral. He kept himself sober for the purpose - tolerably sober: not going to bed mad at six o'clock and getting up drunk at twelve. Consequently, he rose, in suicidal low spirits, as fit for the church as for a dance; and instead, he sat down by the fire and swallowed gin or brandy by tumblerfuls. 'Heathcliff - I shudder to name him! has been a stranger in the house from last Sunday till to-day. Whether the angels have fed him, or his kin beneath, I cannot tell; but he has not eaten a meal with us for nearly a week. He has just come home at dawn, and gone up-stairs to his chamber; looking himself in - as if anybody dreamt of coveting his company! There he has continued, praying like a Methodist: only the deity he implored is senseless dust and ashes; and God, when addressed, was curiously confounded with his own black father! After concluding these precious orisons - and they lasted generally till he grew hoarse and his voice was strangled in his throat - he would be off again; always straight down to the Grange! I wonder Edgar did not send for a constable, and give him into custody! For me, grieved as I was about Catherine, it was impossible to avoid regarding this season of deliverance from degrading oppression as a holiday. 

'I recovered spirits sufficient to bear Joseph's eternal lectures without weeping, and to move up and down the house less with the foot of a frightened thief than formerly. You wouldn't think that I should cry at anything Joseph could say; but he and Hareton are detestable companions. I'd rather sit with Hindley, and hear his awful talk, than with "t' little maister" and his staunch supporter, that odious old man! When Heathcliff is in, I'm often obliged to seek the kitchen and their society, or starve among the damp uninhabited chambers; when he is not, as was the case this week, I establish a table and chair at one corner of the house fire, and never mind how Mr. Earnshaw may occupy himself; and he does not interfere with my arrangements. He is quieter now than he used to be, if no one provokes him: more sullen and depressed, and less furious. Joseph affirms he's sure he's an altered man: that the Lord has touched his heart, and he is saved "so as by fire." I'm puzzled to detect signs of the favourable change: but it is not my business. 

'Yester-evening I sat in my nook reading some old books till late on towards twelve. It seemed so dismal to go up-stairs, with the wild snow blowing outside, and my thoughts continually reverting to the kirk-yard and the new-made grave! I dared hardly lift my eyes from the page before me, that melancholy scene so instantly usurped its place. Hindley sat opposite, his head leant on his hand; perhaps meditating on the same subject. He had ceased drinking at a point below irrationality, and had neither stirred nor spoken during two or three hours. There was no sound through the house but the moaning wind, which shook the windows every now and then, the faint crackling of the coals, and the click of my snuffers as I removed at intervals the long wick of the candle. Hareton and Joseph were probably fast asleep in bed. It was very, very sad: and while I read I sighed, for it seemed as if all joy had vanished from the world, never to be restored. 

'The doleful silence was broken at length by the sound of the kitchen latch: Heathcliff had returned from his watch earlier than usual; owing, I suppose, to the sudden storm. That entrance was fastened, and we heard him coming round to get in by the other. I rose with an irrepressible expression of what I felt on my lips, which induced my companion, who had been staring towards the door, to turn and look at me. 

' "I'll keep him out five minutes," he exclaimed. "You won't object?" 

' "No, you may keep him out the whole night for me," I answered. "Do! put the key in the look, and draw the bolts." 

'Earnshaw accomplished this ere his guest reached the front; he then came and brought his chair to the other side of my table, leaning over it, and searching in my eyes for a sympathy with the burning hate that gleamed from his: as he both looked and felt like an assassin, he couldn't exactly find that; but he discovered enough to encourage him to speak. 

' "You, and I," he said, "have each a great debt to settle with the man out yonder! If we were neither of us cowards, we might combine to discharge it. Are you as soft as your brother? Are you willing to endure to the last, and not once attempt a repayment?" 

' "I'm weary of enduring now," I replied; "and I'd be glad of a retaliation that wouldn't recoil on myself; but treachery and violence are spears pointed at both ends; they wound those who resort to them worse than their enemies." 

' "Treachery and violence are a just return for treachery and violence!" cried Hindley. "Mrs. Heathcliff, I'll ask you to do nothing; but sit still and be dumb. Tell me now, can you? I'm sure you would have as much pleasure as I in witnessing the conclusion of the fiend's existence; he'll be YOUR death unless you overreach him; and he'll be MY ruin. Damn the hellish villain! He knocks at the door as if he were master here already! Promise to hold your tongue, and before that clock strikes - it wants three minutes of one - you're a free woman!" 

'He took the implements which I described to you in my letter from his breast, and would have turned down the candle. I snatched it away, however, and seized his arm. 

' "I'll not hold my tongue!" I said; "you mustn't touch him. Let the door remain shut, and be quiet!" 

' "No! I've formed my resolution, and by God I'll execute it!" cried the desperate being. "I'll do you a kindness in spite of yourself, and Hareton justice! And you needn't trouble your head to screen me; Catherine is gone. Nobody alive would regret me, or be ashamed, though I cut my throat this minute - and it's time to make an end!" 

'I might as well have struggled with a bear, or reasoned with a lunatic. The only resource left me was to run to a lattice and warn his intended victim of the fate which awaited him. 

' "You'd better seek shelter somewhere else to-night!" I exclaimed, in rather a triumphant tone. "Mr. Earnshaw has a mind to shoot you, if you persist in endeavouring to enter." 

'"You'd better open the door, you - " he answered, addressing me by some elegant term that I don't care to repeat. 

' "I shall not meddle in the matter," I retorted again. "Come in and get shot, if you please. I've done my duty." 

'With that I shut the window and returned to my place by the fire; having too small a stock of hypocrisy at my command to pretend any anxiety for the danger that menaced him. Earnshaw swore passionately at me: affirming that I loved the villain yet; and calling me all sorts of names for the base spirit I evinced. And I, in my secret heart (and conscience never reproached me), thought what a blessing it would be for HIM should Heathcliff put him out of misery; and what a blessing for ME should he send Heathcliff to his right abode! As I sat nursing these reflections, the casement behind me was banged on to the floor by a blow from the latter individual, and his black countenance looked blightingly through. The stanchions stood too close to suffer his shoulders to follow, and I smiled, exulting in my fancied security. His hair and clothes were whitened with snow, and his sharp cannibal teeth, revealed by cold and wrath, gleamed through the dark. 

' "Isabella, let me in, or I'll make you repent!" he "girned," as Joseph calls it. 

' "I cannot commit murder," I replied. "Mr. Hindley stands sentinel with a knife and loaded pistol." 

' "Let me in by the kitchen door," he said. 

' "Hindley will be there before me," I answered: "and that's a poor love of yours that cannot bear a shower of snow! We were left at peace in our beds as long as the summer moon shone, but the moment a blast of winter returns, you must run for shelter! Heathcliff, if I were you, I'd go stretch myself over her grave and die like a faithful dog. The world is surely not worth living in now, is it? You had distinctly impressed on me the idea that Catherine was the whole joy of your life: I can't imagine how you think of surviving her loss." 

' "He's there, is he?" exclaimed my companion, rushing to the gap. "If I can get my arm out I can hit him!" 

'I'm afraid, Ellen, you'll set me down as really wicked; but you don't know all, so don't judge. I wouldn't have aided or abetted an attempt on even HIS life for anything. Wish that he were dead, I must; and therefore I was fearfully disappointed, and unnerved by terror for the consequences of my taunting speech, when he flung himself on Earnshaw's weapon and wrenched it from his grasp. 

'The charge exploded, and the knife, in springing back, closed into its owner's wrist. Heathcliff pulled it away by main force, slitting up the flesh as it passed on, and thrust it dripping into his pocket. He then took a stone, struck down the division between two windows, and sprang in. His adversary had fallen senseless with excessive pain and the flow of blood, that gushed from an artery or a large vein. The ruffian kicked and trampled on him, and dashed his head repeatedly against the flags, holding me with one hand, meantime, to prevent me summoning Joseph. He exerted preterhuman self-denial in abstaining from finishing him completely; but getting out of breath, he finally desisted, and dragged the apparently inanimate body on to the settle. There he tore off the sleeve of Earnshaw's coat, and bound up the wound with brutal roughness; spitting and cursing during the operation as energetically as he had kicked before. Being at liberty, I lost no time in seeking the old servant; who, having gathered by degrees the purport of my hasty tale, hurried below, gasping, as he descended the steps two at once. 

' "What is ther to do, now? what is ther to do, now?" 

' "There's this to do," thundered Heathcliff, "that your master's mad; and should he last another month, I'll have him to an asylum. And how the devil did you come to fasten me out, you toothless hound? Don't stand muttering and mumbling there. Come, I'm not going to nurse him. Wash that stuff away; and mind the sparks of your candle - it is more than half brandy!" 

' "And so ye've been murthering on him?" exclaimed Joseph, lifting his hands and eyes in horror. "If iver I seed a seeght loike this! May the Lord - " 

'Heathcliff gave him a push on to his knees in the middle of the blood, and flung a towel to him; but instead of proceeding to dry it up, he joined his hands and began a prayer, which excited my laughter from its odd phraseology. I was in the condition of mind to be shocked at nothing: in fact, I was as reckless as some malefactors show themselves at the foot of the gallows. 

' "Oh, I forgot you," said the tyrant. "You shall do that. Down with you. And you conspire with him against me, do you, viper? There, that is work fit for you!" 

'He shook me till my teeth rattled, and pitched me beside Joseph, who steadily concluded his supplications, and then rose, vowing he would set off for the Grange directly. Mr. Linton was a magistrate, and though he had fifty wives dead, he should inquire into this. He was so obstinate in his resolution, that Heathcliff deemed it expedient to compel from my lips a recapitulation of what had taken place; standing over me, heaving with malevolence, as I reluctantly delivered the account in answer to his questions. It required a great deal of labour to satisfy the old man that Heathcliff was not the aggressor; especially with my hardly-wrung replies. However, Mr. Earnshaw soon convinced him that he was alive still; Joseph hastened to administer a dose of spirits, and by their succour his master presently regained motion and consciousness. Heathcliff, aware that his opponent was ignorant of the treatment received while insensible, called him deliriously intoxicated; and said he should not notice his atrocious conduct further, but advised him to get to bed. To my joy, he left us, after giving this judicious counsel, and Hindley stretched himself on the hearthstone. I departed to my own room, marvelling that I had escaped so easily. 

'This morning, when I came down, about half an hour before noon, Mr. Earnshaw was sitting by the fire, deadly sick; his evil genius, almost as gaunt and ghastly, leant against the chimney. Neither appeared inclined to dine, and, having waited till all was cold on the table, I commenced alone. Nothing hindered me from eating heartily, and I experienced a certain sense of satisfaction and superiority, as, at intervals, I cast a look towards my silent companions, and felt the comfort of a quiet conscience within me. After I had done, I ventured on the unusual liberty of drawing near the fire, going round Earnshaw's seat, and kneeling in the corner beside him. 

'Heathcliff did not glance my way, and I gazed up, and contemplated his features almost as confidently as if they had been turned to stone. His forehead, that I once thought so manly, and that I now think so diabolical, was shaded with a heavy cloud; his basilisk eyes were nearly quenched by sleeplessness, and weeping, perhaps, for the lashes were wet then: his lips devoid of their ferocious sneer, and sealed in an expression of unspeakable sadness. Had it been another, I would have covered my face in the presence of such grief. In HIS case, I was gratified; and, ignoble as it seems to insult a fallen enemy, I couldn't miss this chance of sticking in a dart: his weakness was the only time when I could taste the delight of paying wrong for wrong
Fie, fie, Miss
One might suppose you had never opened a Bible in your life. If God afflict your enemies, surely that ought to suffice you. It is both mean and presumptuous to add your torture to his
In general I'll allow that it would be, Ellen
Not as ill as I wish," he replied. "But leaving out my arm, every inch of me is as sore as if I had been fighting with a legion of imps!" ' "Yes, no wonder," was my next remark. "Catherine used to boast that she stood between you and bodily harm: she meant that certain persons would not hurt you for fear of offending her. It's well people don't REALLY rise from their grave, or, last night, she might have witnessed a repulsive scene! Are not you bruised, and cut over your chest and shoulders?" 

' "I can't say," he answered, "but what do you mean? Did he dare to strike me when I was down?" 

' "He trampled on and kicked you, and dashed you on the ground," I whispered. "And his mouth watered to tear you with his teeth; because he's only half man: not so much, and the rest fiend." 

'Mr. Earnshaw looked up, like me, to the countenance of our mutual foe; who, absorbed in his anguish, seemed insensible to anything around him: the longer he stood, the plainer his reflections revealed their blackness through his features. 

' "Oh, if God would but give me strength to strangle him in my last agony, I'd go to hell with joy," groaned the impatient man, writhing to rise, and sinking back in despair, convinced of his inadequacy for the struggle. 

' "Nay, it's enough that he has murdered one of you," I observed aloud. "At the Grange, every one knows your sister would have been living now had it not been for Mr. Heathcliff. After all, it is preferable to be hated than loved by him. When I recollect how happy we were - how happy Catherine was before he came - I'm fit to curse the day." 

'Most likely, Heathcliff noticed more the truth of what was said, than the spirit of the person who said it. His attention was roused, I saw, for his eyes rained down tears among the ashes, and he drew his breath in suffocating sighs. I stared full at him, and laughed scornfully. The clouded windows of hell flashed a moment towards me; the fiend which usually looked out, however, was so dimmed and drowned that I did not fear to hazard another sound of derision. 

' "Get up, and begone out of my sight," said the mourner. 

'I guessed he uttered those words, at least, though his voice was hardly intelligible. 

' "I beg your pardon," I replied. "But I loved Catherine too; and her brother requires attendance, which, for her sake, I shall supply. Now, that she's dead, I see her in Hindley: Hindley has exactly her eyes, if you had not tried to gouge them out, and made them black and red; and her - " 

' "Get up, wretched idiot, before I stamp you to death!" he cried, making a movement that caused me to make one also. 

' "But then," I continued, holding myself ready to flee, "if poor Catherine had trusted you, and assumed the ridiculous, contemptible, degrading title of Mrs. Heathcliff, she would soon have presented a similar picture! SHE wouldn't have borne your abominable behaviour quietly: her detestation and disgust must have found voice." 

'The back of the settle and Earnshaw's person interposed between me and him; so instead of endeavouring to reach me, he snatched a dinner-knife from the table and flung it at my head. It struck beneath my ear, and stopped the sentence I was uttering; but, pulling it out, I sprang to the door and delivered another; which I hope went a little deeper than his missile. The last glimpse I caught of him was a furious rush on his part, checked by the embrace of his host; and both fell locked together on the hearth. In my flight through the kitchen I bid Joseph speed to his master; I knocked over Hareton, who was hanging a litter of puppies from a chair-back in the doorway; and, blessed as a soul escaped from purgatory, I bounded, leaped, and flew down the steep road; then, quitting its windings, shot direct across the moor, rolling over banks, and wading through marshes: precipitating myself, in fact, towards the beacon-light of the Grange. And far rather would I be condemned to a perpetual dwelling in the infernal regions than, even for one night, abide beneath the roof of Wuthering Heights again
They wish me to hate it too, do they
I don't think they wish you to know anything about it
But I'll have it
when I want it. They may reckon on that
Well, Nelly
it's yours and my turn to go into mourning at present. Who's given us the slip now, do you think
Who
Why, guess
And nip up the corner of your apron: I'm certain you'll need it
Not Mr. Heathcliff, surely
What! would you have tears for him
No, Heathcliff's a tough young fellow: he looks blooming to-day. I've just seen him. He's rapidly regaining flesh since he lost his better half
Who is it, then, Mr. Kenneth
Hindley Earnshaw! Your old friend Hindley
and my wicked gossip: though he's been too wild for me this long while. There! I said we should draw water. But cheer up! He died true to his character: drunk as a lord. Poor lad! I'm sorry, too. One can't help missing an old companion: though he had the worst tricks with him that ever man imagined, and has done me many a rascally turn. He's barely twenty-seven, it seems; that's your own age: who would have thought you were born in one year
Had he had fair play
His father died in debt
the whole property is mortgaged, and the sole chance for the natural heir is to allow him an opportunity of creating some interest in the creditor's heart, that he may be inclined to deal leniently towards him
Correctly
that fool's body should he buried at the cross-roads, without ceremony of any kind. I happened to leave him ten minutes yesterday afternoon, and in that interval he fastened the two doors of the house against me, and he has spent the night in drinking himself to death deliberately! We broke in this morning, for we heard him sporting like a horse; and there he was, laid over the settle: flaying and scalping would not have wakened him. I sent for Kenneth, and he came; but not till the beast had changed into carrion: he was both dead and cold, and stark; and so you'll allow it was useless making more stir about him
I'd rayther he'd goan hisseln for t' doctor! I sud ha
Now, my bonny lad, you are MINE! And we'll see if one tree won't grow as crooked as another, with the same wind to twist it
That boy must go back with me to Thrushcross Grange, sir. There is nothing in the world less yours than he is
Does Linton say so
Of course - he has ordered me to take him
Well
we'll not argue the subject now: but I have a fancy to try my hand at rearing a young one; so intimate to your master that I must supply the place of this with my own, if he attempt to remove it. I don't engage to let Hareton go undisputed; but I'll be pretty sure to make the other come! Remember to tell him
I shall tell papa
Ellen, how long will it be before I can walk to the top of those hills? I wonder what lies on the other side - is it the sea
No, Miss Cathy
it is hills again, just like these
And what are those golden rocks like when you stand under them
And why are they bright so long after it is evening here
Because they are a great deal higher up than we are
you could not climb them, they are too high and steep. In winter the frost is always there before it comes to us; and deep into summer I have found snow under that black hollow on the north-east side
Oh, you have been on them
Then I can go, too, when I am a woman. Has papa been, Ellen
Papa would tell you, Miss
that they are not worth the trouble of visiting. The moors, where you ramble with him, are much nicer; and Thrushcross Park is the finest place in the world
But I know the park, and I don't know those
And I should delight to look round me from the brow of that tallest point: my little pony Minny shall take me some time
Now, am I old enough to go to Penistone Crags
Not yet, love: not yet
I saw her at morn
she would have me to cut her a hazel switch, and then she leapt her Galloway over the hedge yonder, where it is lowest, and galloped out of sight
What will become of her
And what if she should have slipped in clambering among them
and been killed, or broken some of her bones
Ah
you are come a-seeking your little mistress! Don't be frightened. She's here safe: but I'm glad it isn't the master
He is not at home then, is he
No, no
both he and Joseph are off, and I think they won't return this hour or more. Step in and rest you a bit
Very well, Miss
This is your last ride, till papa comes back. I'll not trust you over the threshold again, you naughty, naughty girl
Aha, Ellen
I shall have a pretty story to tell to-night; and so you've found me out. Have you ever been here in your life before
Put that hat on, and home at once
I'm dreadfully grieved at you, Miss Cathy: you've done extremely wrong! It's no use pouting and crying: that won't repay the trouble I've had, scouring the country after you. To think how Mr. Linton charged me to keep you in; and you stealing off so! It shows you are a cunning little fox, and nobody will put faith in you any more
What have I done
Papa charged me nothing: he'll not scold me, Ellen - he's never cross, like you
Come, come
I'll tie the riband. Now, let us have no petulance. Oh, for shame! You thirteen years old, and such a baby
Nay
don't be hard on the bonny lass, Mrs. Dean. We made her stop: she'd fain have ridden forwards, afeard you should be uneasy. Hareton offered to go with her, and I thought he should: it's a wild road over the hills
How long am I to wait
It will be dark in ten minutes. Where is the pony, Miss Cathy? And where is Phoenix? I shall leave you, unless you be quick; so please yourself
The pony is in the yard
and Phoenix is shut in there. He's bitten - and so is Charlie. I was going to tell you all about it; but you are in a bad temper, and don't deserve to hear
Well, Miss Cathy, if you were aware whose house this is you'd be glad enough to get out
It's YOUR father's, isn't it
Nay
Whose then - your master's
Who is his master
He talked about "our house," and "our folk." I thought he had been the owner's son. And he never said Miss: he should have done, shouldn't he, if he's a servant
Now, get my horse
And you may come with me. I want to see where the goblin-hunter rises in the marsh, and to hear about the FAIRISHES, as you call them: but make haste! What's the matter? Get my horse, I say
I'll see thee damned before I be THY servant
Damned - thou saucy witch
There, Miss Cathy! you see you have got into pretty company
Nice words to be used to a young lady! Pray don't begin to dispute with him. Come, let us seek for Minny ourselves, and begone
But, Ellen
how dare he speak so to me? Mustn't he be made to do as I ask him? You wicked creature, I shall tell papa what you said. - Now, then
You bring the pony
and let my dog free this moment
Softly, Miss
you'll lose nothing by being civil. Though Mr. Hareton, there, be not the master's son, he's your cousin: and I was never hired to serve you
HE my cousin
Yes, indeed
Oh, Ellen! don't let them say such things
Hush, hush
people can have many cousins and of all sorts, Miss Cathy, without being any the worse for it; only they needn't keep their company, if they be disagreeable and bad
He's not - he's not my cousin, Ellen
offald ways
love
darling
queen
angel
Linton is just six months younger than I am
How delightful it will be to have him for a playfellow! Aunt Isabella sent papa a beautiful lock of his hair; it was lighter than mine - more flaxen, and quite as fine. I have it carefully preserved in a little glass box; and I've often thought what a pleasure it would be to see its owner. Oh! I am happy - and papa, dear, dear papa! Come, Ellen, let us run! come, run
How long they are
Ah, I see, some dust on the road - they are coming! No! When will they be here? May we not go a little way - half a mile, Ellen, only just half a mile? Do say Yes: to that clump of birches at the turn
Now, darling
your cousin is not so strong or so merry as you are, and he has lost his mother, remember, a very short time since; therefore, don't expect him to play and run about with you directly. And don't harass him much by talking: let him be quiet this evening, at least, will you
Yes, yes, papa
but I do want to see him; and he hasn't once looked out
This is your cousin Cathy, Linton
She's fond of you already; and mind you don't grieve her by crying to-night. Try to be cheerful now; the travelling is at an end, and you have nothing to do but rest and amuse yourself as you please
Let me go to bed, then
Come, come, there's a good child
You'll make her weep too - see how sorry she is for you
I can't sit on a chair
Go to the sofa, then, and Ellen shall bring you some tea
Oh, he'll do very well
Very well, if we can keep him, Ellen. The company of a child of his own age will instil new spirit into him soon, and by wishing for strength he'll gain it
Ay, if we can keep him
I shall ask him what he wants first
A very unlikely hour to be troubling people, and the instant they have returned from a long journey. I don't think the master can see him
Good-evening, Joseph
What business brings you here to-night
It's Maister Linton I mun spake to
Mr. Linton is going to bed; unless you have something particular to say, I'm sure he won't hear it now
You had better sit down in there, and entrust your message to me
Which is his rahm
bout him
Tell Mr. Heathcliff
that his son shall come to Wuthering Heights to-morrow. He is in bed, and too tired to go the distance now. You may also tell him that the mother of Linton desired him to remain under my guardianship; and, at present, his health is very precarious
Noa
count o' t' mother, nor ye norther; but he'll heu' his lad; und I mun tak' him - soa now ye knaw
You shall not to-night
Varrah weell
To-morn, he's come hisseln, and thrust HIM out, if ye darr
As we shall now have no influence over his destiny, good or bad, you must say nothing of where he is gone to my daughter: she cannot associate with him hereafter, and it is better for her to remain in ignorance of his proximity; lest she should be restless, and anxious to visit the Heights. Merely tell her his father sent for him suddenly, and he has been obliged to leave us
My father
Mamma never told me I had a father. Where does he live? I'd rather stay with uncle
He lives a little distance from the Grange
just beyond those hills: not so far, but you may walk over here when you get hearty. And you should be glad to go home, and to see him. You must try to love him, as you did your mother, and then he will love you
But why have I not heard of him before
Why didn't mamma and he live together, as other people do
He had business to keep him in the north
and your mother's health required her to reside in the south
And why didn't mamma speak to me about him
She often talked of uncle, and I learnt to love him long ago. How am I to love papa? I don't know him
Oh, all children love their parents
Your mother, perhaps, thought you would want to be with him if she mentioned him often to you. Let us make haste. An early ride on such a beautiful morning is much preferable to an hour's more sleep
Is SHE to go with us
the little girl I saw yesterday
Not now
Is uncle
No, I shall be your companion there
I won't go without uncle
I can't tell where you mean to take me
Is Wuthering Heights as pleasant a place as Thrushcross Grange
It is not so buried in trees
and it is not quite so large, but you can see the country beautifully all round; and the air is healthier for you - fresher and drier. You will, perhaps, think the building old and dark at first; though it is a respectable house: the next best in the neighbourhood. And you will have such nice rambles on the moors. Hareton Earnshaw - that is, Miss Cathy's other cousin, and so yours in a manner - will show you all the sweetest spots; and you can bring a book in fine weather, and make a green hollow your study; and, now and then, your uncle may join you in a walk: he does, frequently, walk out on the hills
And what is my father like
Is he as young and handsome as uncle
He's as young
but he has black hair and eyes, and looks sterner; and he is taller and bigger altogether. He'll not seem to you so gentle and kind at first, perhaps, because it is not his way: still, mind you, be frank and cordial with him; and naturally he'll be fonder of you than any uncle, for you are his own
Black hair and eyes
I can't fancy him. Then I am not like him, am I
Not much
How strange that he should never come to see mamma and me
Has he ever seen me? If he has, I must have been a baby. I remember not a single thing about him
Why, Master Linton
three hundred miles is a great distance; and ten years seem very different in length to a grown-up person compared with what they do to you. It is probable Mr. Heathcliff proposed going from summer to summer, but never found a convenient opportunity; and now it is too late. Don't trouble him with questions on the subject: it will disturb him, for no good
Hallo, Nelly
I feared I should have to come down and fetch my property myself. You've brought it, have you? Let us see what we can make of it
Sure-ly
he's swopped wi' ye, Maister, an' yon's his lass
God! what a beauty! what a lovely, charming thing
Tut, tut
None of that nonsense! We're not going to hurt thee, Linton - isn't that thy name? Thou art thy mother's child, entirely! Where is my share in thee, puling chicken
Do you know me
No
You've heard of me, I daresay
No
No! What a shame of your mother, never to waken your filial regard for me! You are my son, then, I'll tell you; and your mother was a wicked slut to leave you in ignorance of the sort of father you possessed. Now, don't wince, and colour up! Though it is something to see you have not white blood. Be a good lad; and I'll do for you. Nelly, if you be tired you may sit down; if not, get home again. I guess you'll report what you hear and see to the cipher at the Grange; and this thing won't be settled while you linger about it
Well
I hope you'll be kind to the boy, Mr. Heathcliff, or you'll not keep him long; and he's all you have akin in the wide world, that you will ever know - remember
I'll be very kind to him, you needn't fear
Only nobody else must be kind to him: I'm jealous of monopolising his affection. And, to begin my kindness, Joseph, bring the lad some breakfast. Hareton, you infernal calf, begone to your work. Yes, Nell
my son is prospective owner of your place, and I should not wish him to die till I was certain of being his successor. Besides, he's MINE, and I want the triumph of seeing MY descendant fairly lord of their estates; my child hiring their children to till their fathers' lands for wages. That is the sole consideration which can make me endure the whelp: I despise him for himself, and hate him for the memories he revives! But that consideration is sufficient: he's as safe with me, and shall be tended as carefully as your master tends his own. I have a room up-stairs, furnished for him in handsome style; I've engaged a tutor, also, to come three times a week, from twenty miles' distance, to teach him what he pleases to learn. I've ordered Hareton to obey him: and in fact I've arranged everything with a view to preserve the superior and the gentleman in him, above his associates. I do regret, however, that he so little deserves the trouble: if I wished any blessing in the world, it was to find him a worthy object of pride; and I'm bitterly disappointed with the whey-faced, whining wretch
Cannot ate it
un; and what wer gooid enough for him's gooid enough for ye, I's rayther think
Take it away
Is there aught ails th' victuals
What should ail them
Wah
yon dainty chap says he cannut ate 'em. But I guess it's raight! His mother wer just soa - we wer a'most too mucky to sow t' corn for makking her breead
Don't mention his mother to me
Get him something that he can eat, that's all. What is his usual food, Nelly
Don't leave me! I'll not stay here! I'll not stay here
And I never know such a fainthearted creature
nor one so careful of hisseln. He WILL go on, if I leave the window open a bit late in the evening. Oh! it's killing, a breath of night air! And he must have a fire in the middle of summer; and Joseph's bacca-pipe is poison; and he must always have sweets and dainties, and always milk, milk for ever - heeding naught how the rest of us are pinched in winter; and there he'll sit, wrapped in his furred cloak in his chair by the fire, with some toast and water or other slop on the hob to sip at; and if Hareton, for pity, comes to amuse him - Hareton is not bad-natured, though he's rough - they're sure to part, one swearing and the other crying. I believe the master would relish Earnshaw's thrashing him to a mummy, if he were not his son; and I'm certain he would be fit to turn him out of doors, if he knew half the nursing he gives hisseln. But then he won't go into danger of temptation: he never enters the parlour, and should Linton show those ways in the house where he is, he sends him up-stairs directly
So make haste, Ellen
I know where I wish to go; where a colony of moor-game are settled: I want to see whether they have made their nests yet
That must be a good distance up
they don't breed on the edge of the moor
No, it's not
I've gone very near with papa
Well
where are your moor-game, Miss Cathy? We should be at them: the Grange park-fence is a great way off now
Oh, a little further - only a little further, Ellen
Climb to that hillock, pass that bank, and by the time you reach the other side I shall have raised the birds
I've neither taken any nor found any
I didn't mean to take them; but papa told me there were quantities up here, and I wished to see the eggs
Mr. Linton of Thrushcross Grange
I thought you did not know me, or you wouldn't have spoken in that way
You suppose papa is highly esteemed and respected, then
And what are you
That man I've seen before. Is he your son
Miss Cathy
it will be three hours instead of one that we are out, presently. We really must go back
No, that man is not my son
But I have one, and you have seen him before too; and, though your nurse is in a hurry, I think both you and she would be the better for a little rest. Will you just turn this nab of heath, and walk into my house? You'll get home earlier for the ease; and you shall receive a kind welcome
Why
I'm tired of running, and the ground is dewy: I can't sit here. Let us go, Ellen. Besides, he says I have seen his son. He's mistaken, I think; but I guess where he lives: at the farmhouse I visited in coming from Penistone' Crags. Don't you
I do. Come, Nelly, hold your tongue - it will he a treat for her to look in on us. Hareton, get forwards with the lass. You shall walk with me, Nelly
No, she's not going to any such place
Mr. Heathcliff, it's very wrong
you know you mean no good. And there she'll see Linton, and all will be told as soon as ever we return; and I shall have the blame
I want her to see Linton
he's looking better these few days; it's not often he's fit to be seen. And we'll soon persuade her to keep the visit secret: where is the harm of it
The harm of it is, that her father would hate me if he found I suffered her to enter your house; and I am convinced you have a bad design in encouraging her to do so
My design is as honest as possible. I'll inform you of its whole scope
That the two cousins may fall in love, and get married. I'm acting generously to your master: his young chit has no expectations, and should she second my wishes she'll be provided for at once as joint successor with Linton
If Linton died
and his life is quite uncertain, Catherine would be the heir
No, she would not
There is no clause in the will to secure it so: his property would go to me; but, to prevent disputes, I desire their union, and am resolved to bring it about
And I'm resolved she shall never approach your house with me again
Now, who is that
Can you tell
Your son
Yes, yes
but is this the only time you have beheld him? Think! Ah! you have a short memory. Linton, don't you recall your cousin, that you used to tease us so with wishing to see
What, Linton
Is that little Linton? He's taller than I am! Are you Linton
And you are my uncle, then
I thought I liked you, though you were cross at first. Why don't you visit at the Grange with Linton? To live all these years such close neighbours, and never see us, is odd: what have you done so for
I visited it once or twice too often before you were born
There - damn it! If you have any kisses to spare, give them to Linton: they are thrown away on me
Naughty Ellen
Wicked Ellen! to try to hinder me from entering. But I'll take this walk every morning in future: may I, uncle? and sometimes bring papa. Won't you be glad to see us
Of course
But stay
Now I think of it, I'd better tell you. Mr. Linton has a prejudice against me: we quarrelled at one time of our lives, with unchristian ferocity; and, if you mention coming here to him, he'll put a veto on your visits altogether. Therefore, you must not mention it, unless you be careless of seeing your cousin hereafter: you may come, if you will, but you must not mention it
Why did you quarrel
He thought me too poor to wed his sister
and was grieved that I got her: his pride was hurt, and he'll never forgive it
That's wrong
some time I'll tell him so. But Linton and I have no share in your quarrel. I'll not come here, then; he shall come to the Grange
It will be too far for me
to walk four miles would kill me. No, come here, Miss Catherine, now and then: not every morning, but once or twice a week
I am afraid, Nelly, I shall lose my labour
Miss Catherine, as the ninny calls her, will discover his value, and send him to the devil. Now, if it had been Hareton! - Do you know that, twenty times a day, I covet Hareton, with all his degradation? I'd have loved the lad had he been some one else. But I think he's safe from HER love. I'll pit him against that paltry creature, unless it bestir itself briskly. We calculate it will scarcely last till it is eighteen. Oh, confound the vapid thing! He's absorbed in drying his feet, and never looks at her. - Linton
Yes, father
Have you nothing to show your cousin anywhere about, not even a rabbit or a weasel's nest? Take her into the garden, before you change your shoes; and into the stable to see your horse
Wouldn't you rather sit here
I don't know
Oh, I'll ask YOU, uncle
That is not my cousin, is he
Yes
your mother's nephew. Don't you like him
Is he not a handsome lad
You'll be the favourite among us, Hareton! She says you are a - What was it? Well, something very flattering. Here! you go with her round the farm. And behave like a gentleman, mind! Don't use any bad words; and don't stare when the young lady is not looking at you, and be ready to hide your face when she is; and, when you speak, say your words slowly, and keep your hands out of your pockets. Be off, and entertain her as nicely as you can
I've tied his tongue
He'll not venture a single syllable all the time! Nelly, you recollect meat his age - nay, some years younger. Did I ever look so stupid: so "gaumless," as Joseph calls it
Worse
because more sullen with it
I've a pleasure in him
He has satisfied my expectations. If he were a born fool I should not enjoy it half so much. But he's no fool; and I can sympathise with all his feelings, having felt them myself. I know what he suffers now, for instance, exactly: it is merely a beginning of what he shall suffer, though. And he'll never be able to emerge from his bathos of coarseness and ignorance. I've got him faster than his scoundrel of a father secured me, and lower; for he takes a pride in his brutishness. I've taught him to scorn everything extra- animal as silly and weak. Don't you think Hindley would be proud of his son, if he could see him? almost as proud as I am of mine. But there's this difference; one is gold put to the use of paving- stones, and the other is tin polished to ape a service of silver. MINE has nothing valuable about it; yet I shall have the merit of making it go as far as such poor stuff can go. HIS had first-rate qualities, and they are lost: rendered worse than unavailing. I have nothing to regret; he would have more than any but I are aware of. And the best of it is, Hareton is damnably fond of me! You'll own that I've outmatched Hindley there. If the dead villain could rise from his grave to abuse me for his offspring's wrongs, I should have the fun of seeing the said offspring fight him back again, indignant that he should dare to rail at the one friend he has in the world
Get up, you idle boy
Away after them! they are just at the corner, by the stand of hives
It's some damnable writing
I cannot read it
Can't read it
I can read it: it's English. But I want to know why it is there
He does not know his letters
Could you believe in the existence of such a colossal dunce
Is he all as he should be
or is he simple: not right? I've questioned him twice now, and each time he looked so stupid I think he does not understand me. I can hardly understand him, I'm sure
There's nothing the matter but laziness; is there, Earnshaw
My cousin fancies you are an idiot. There you experience the consequence of scorning "book-larning," as you would say. Have you noticed, Catherine, his frightful Yorkshire pronunciation
Why, where the devil is the use on't
Where is the use of the devil in that sentence
Papa told you not to say any bad words, and you can't open your mouth without one. Do try to behave like a gentleman, now do
If thou weren't more a lass than a lad, I'd fell thee this minute, I would; pitiful lath of a crater
Aha
you take papa's side, Ellen: you are partial I know; or else you wouldn't have cheated me so many years into the notion that Linton lived a long way from here. I'm really extremely angry; only I'm so pleased I can't show it! But you must hold your tongue about MY uncle; he's my uncle, remember; and I'll scold papa for quarrelling with him
Papa
guess whom I saw yesterday, in my walk on the moors. Ah, papa, you started! you've not done right, have you, now? I saw - but listen, and you shall hear how I found you out; and Ellen, who is in league with you, and yet pretended to pity me so, when I kept hoping, and was always disappointed about Linton's coming back
It was because you disliked Mr. Heathcliff
Then you believe I care more for my own feelings than yours, Cathy
No, it was not because I disliked Mr. Heathcliff, but because Mr. Heathcliff dislikes me; and is a most diabolical man, delighting to wrong and ruin those he hates, if they give him the slightest opportunity. I knew that you could not keep up an acquaintance with your cousin without being brought into contact with him; and I knew he would detest you on my account; so for your own good, and nothing else, I took precautions that you should not see Linton again. I meant to explain this some time as you grew older, and I'm sorry I delayed it
But Mr. Heathcliff was quite cordial, papa
and he didn't object to our seeing each other: he said I might come to his house when I pleased; only I must not tell you, because you had quarrelled with him, and would not forgive him for marrying aunt Isabella. And you won't. YOU are the one to be blamed: he is willing to let us be friends, at least; Linton and I; and you are not
She might have been living yet, if it had not been for him
You will know hereafter, darling, why I wish you to avoid his house and family; now return to your old employments and amusements, and think no more about them
Oh, fie, silly child
If you had any real griefs you'd be ashamed to waste a tear on this little contrariety. You never had one shadow of substantial sorrow, Miss Catherine. Suppose, for a minute, that master and I were dead, and you were by yourself in the world: how would you feel, then? Compare the present occasion with such an affliction as that, and be thankful for the friends you have, instead of coveting more
I'm not crying for myself, Ellen
Nonsense
do you imagine he has thought as much of you as you have of him? Hasn't he Hareton for a companion? Not one in a hundred would weep at losing a relation they had just seen twice, for two afternoons. Linton will conjecture how it is, and trouble himself no further about you
But may I not write a note to tell him why I cannot come
And just send those books I promised to lend him? His books are not as nice as mine, and he wanted to have them extremely, when I told him how interesting they were. May I not, Ellen
No, indeed! no, indeed
Then he would write to you, and there'd never be an end of it. No, Miss Catherine, the acquaintance must be dropped entirely: so papa expects, and I shall see that it is done
But how can one little note
Silence
We'll not begin with your little notes. Get into bed
You'll get nobody to take that, Catherine
if you write it; and at present I shall put out your candle
cross thing
Oh
What is the matter, love? Have you hurt yourself
No, papa
Ellen! Ellen! come up-stairs - I'm sick
Oh, Ellen! you have got them
Oh, give them to me, and I'll never, never do so again! Don't tell papa. You have not told papa, Ellen? say you have not? I've been exceedingly naughty, but I won't do it any more
So
I didn't! I didn't
LOVING
LOVING! Did anybody ever hear the like! I might just as well talk of loving the miller who comes once a year to buy our corn. Pretty loving, indeed! and both times together you have seen Linton hardly four hours in your life! Now here is the babyish trash. I'm going with it to the library; and we'll see what your father says to such LOVING
If I consent to burn them, will you promise faithfully neither to send nor receive a letter again, nor a book (for I perceive you have sent him books), nor locks of hair, nor rings, nor playthings
We don't send playthings
Nor anything at all, then, my lady
Unless you will, here I go
I promise, Ellen
Oh, put them in the fire, do, do
One or two, Ellen, to keep for Linton's sake
I will have one, you cruel wretch
Very well - and I will have some to exhibit to papa
Master Heathcliff is requested to send no more notes to Miss Linton, as she will not receive them
Look, Miss
Winter is not here yet. There's a little flower up yonder, the last bud from the multitude of bluebells that clouded those turf steps in July with a lilac mist. Will you clamber up, and pluck it to show to papa
No, I'll not touch it: but it looks melancholy, does it not, Ellen
Yes
about as starved and suckless as you your cheeks are bloodless; let us take hold of hands and run. You're so low, I daresay I shall keep up with you
No
Catherine, why are you crying, love
You mustn't cry because papa has a cold; be thankful it is nothing worse
Oh, it will be something worse
And what shall I do when papa and you leave me, and I am by myself? I can't forget your words, Ellen; they are always in my ear. How life will be changed, how dreary the world will be, when papa and you are dead
None can tell whether you won't die before us
It's wrong to anticipate evil. We'll hope there are years and years to come before any of us go: master is young, and I am strong, and hardly forty-five. My mother lived till eighty, a canty dame to the last. And suppose Mr. Linton I were spared till he saw sixty, that would be more years than you have counted, Miss. And would it not be foolish to mourn a calamity above twenty years beforehand
But Aunt Isabella was younger than papa
Aunt Isabella had not you and me to nurse her
She wasn't as happy as Master: she hadn't as much to live for. All you need do, is to wait well on your father, and cheer him by letting him see you cheerful; and avoid giving him anxiety on any subject: mind that, Cathy! I'll not disguise but you might kill him if you were wild and reckless, and cherished a foolish, fanciful affection for the son of a person who would be glad to have him in his grave; and allowed him to discover that you fretted over the separation he has judged it expedient to make
I fret about nothing on earth except papa's illness
I care for nothing in comparison with papa. And I'll never - never - oh, never, while I have my senses, do an act or say a word to vex him. I love him better than myself, Ellen; and I know it by this: I pray every night that I may live after him; because I would rather be miserable than that he should be: that proves I love him better than myself
Good words
But deeds must prove it also; and after he is well, remember you don't forget resolutions formed in the hour of fear
Ellen! you'll have to fetch the key, or else I must run round to the porter's lodge. I can't scale the ramparts on this side
Stay where you are
I have my bundle of keys in my pocket: perhaps I may manage to open it; if not, I'll go
Who is that
Ellen, I wish you could open the door
Ho, Miss Linton
I'm glad to meet you. Don't be in haste to enter, for I have an explanation to ask and obtain
Papa says you are a wicked man, and you hate both him and me; and Ellen says the same
That is nothing to the purpose
I don't hate my son, I suppose; and it is concerning him that I demand your attention. Yes; you have cause to blush. Two or three months since, were you not in the habit of writing to Linton? making love in play, eh? You deserved, both of you, flogging for that! You especially, the elder; and less sensitive, as it turns out. I've got your letters, and if you give me any pertness I'll send them to your father. I presume you grew weary of the amusement and dropped it, didn't you? Well, you dropped Linton with it into a Slough of Despond. He was in earnest: in love, really. As true as I live, he's dying for you; breaking his heart at your fickleness: not figuratively, but actually. Though Hareton has made him a standing jest for six weeks, and I have used more serious measures, and attempted to frighten him out of his idiotcy, he gets worse daily; and he'll be under the sod before summer, unless you restore him
How can you lie so glaringly to the poor child
Pray ride on! How can you deliberately get up such paltry falsehoods? Miss Cathy, I'll knock the lock off with a stone: you won't believe that vile nonsense. You can feel in yourself it is impossible that a person should die for love of a stranger
I was not aware there were eavesdroppers
Worthy Mrs. Dean, I like you, but I don't like your double-dealing
How could YOU lie so glaringly as to affirm I hated the "poor child"? and invent bugbear stories to terrify her from my door-stones? Catherine Linton (the very name warms me), my bonny lass, I shall be from home all this week; go and see if have not spoken truth: do, there's a darling! Just imagine your father in my place, and Linton in yours; then think how you would value your careless lover if he refused to stir a step to comfort you, when your father himself entreated him; and don't, from pure stupidity, fall into the same error. I swear, on my salvation, he's going to his grave, and none but you can save him
I swear Linton is dying
And grief and disappointment are hastening his death. Nelly, if you won't let her go, you can walk over yourself. But I shall not return till this time next week; and I think your master himself would scarcely object to her visiting her cousin
Come in
Miss Catherine, I'll own to you that I have little patience with Linton; and Hareton and Joseph have less. I'll own that he's with a harsh set. He pines for kindness, as well as love; and a kind word from you would be his best medicine. Don't mind Mrs. Dean's cruel cautions; but be generous, and contrive to see him. He dreams of you day and night, and cannot be persuaded that you don't hate him, since you neither write nor call
You may be right, Ellen
but I shall never feel at ease till I know. And I must tell Linton it is not my fault that I don't write, and convince him that I shall not change
Na - ay
Na - ay! yah muh goa back whear yah coom frough
Joseph
How often am I to call you? There are only a few red ashes now. Joseph! come this moment
Oh, I hope you'll die in a garret, starved to death
Is that you, Miss Linton
No - don't kiss me: it takes my breath. Dear me! Papa said you would call
Will you shut the door, if you please? you left it open; and those - those DETESTABLE creatures won't bring coals to the fire. It's so cold
Well, Linton
are you glad to see me? Can I do you any good
Why didn't you come before
You should have come, instead of writing. It tired me dreadfully writing those long letters. I'd far rather have talked to you. Now, I can neither bear to talk, nor anything else. I wonder where Zillah is! Will you' (looking at me) 'step into the kitchen and see
Nobody is out there but Joseph
I want to drink
Zillah is constantly gadding off to Gimmerton since papa went: it's miserable! And I'm obliged to come down here - they resolved never to hear me up-stairs
Is your father attentive to you, Master Heathcliff
Attentive? He makes them a little more attentive at least
The wretches! Do you know, Miss Linton, that brute Hareton laughs at me! I hate him! indeed, I hate them all: they are odious beings
And are you glad to see me
Yes, I am. It's something new to hear a voice like yours
But I have been vexed, because you wouldn't come. And papa swore it was owing to me: he called me a pitiful, shuffling, worthless thing; and said you despised me; and if he had been in my place, he would be more the master of the Grange than your father by this time. But you don't despise me, do you, Miss
I wish you would say Catherine, or Cathy
Despise you? No! Next to papa and Ellen, I love you better than anybody living. I don't love Mr. Heathcliff, though; and I dare not come when he returns: will he stay away many days
Not many
but he goes on to the moors frequently, since the shooting season commenced; and you might spend an hour or two with me in his absence. Do say you will. I think I should not be peevish with you: you'd not provoke me, and you'd always be ready to help me, wouldn't you
if I could only get papa's consent, I'd spend half my time with you. Pretty Linton! I wish you were my brother
And then you would like me as well as your father
But papa says you would love me better than him and all the world, if you were my wife; so I'd rather you were that
No, I should never love anybody better than papa
And people hate their wives, sometimes; but not their sisters and brothers: and if you were the latter, you would live with us, and papa would be as fond of you as he is of me
Papa told me; and papa does not tell falsehoods
MY papa scorns yours
He calls him a sneaking fool
Yours is a wicked man
and you are very naughty to dare to repeat what he says. He must be wicked to have made Aunt Isabella leave him as she did
She didn't leave him
She did
Well, I'll tell you something
Your mother hated your father: now then
Oh
And she loved mine
You little liar! I hate you now
She did! she did
Hush, Master Heathcliff
that's your father's tale, too, I suppose
It isn't: you hold your tongue
She did, she did, Catherine! she did, she did
How do you feel now, Master Heathcliff
I wish SHE felt as I do
I didn't strike you
I'm sorry I hurt you, Linton
But I couldn't have been hurt by that little push, and I had no idea that you could, either: you're not much, are you, Linton? Don't let me go home thinking I've done you harm. Answer! speak to me
I can't speak to you
you've hurt me so that I shall lie awake all night choking with this cough. If you had it you'd know what it was; but YOU'LL be comfortably asleep while I'm in agony, and nobody near me. I wonder how you would like to pass those fearful nights
Since you are in the habit of passing dreadful nights
it won't be Miss who spoils your ease: you'd be the same had she never come. However, she shall not disturb you again; and perhaps you'll get quieter when we leave you
Must I go
Do you want me to go, Linton
You can't alter what you've done
unless you alter it for the worse by teasing me into a fever
Well, then, I must go
Let me alone, at least
I can't bear your talking
I shall lift him on to the settle
and he may roll about as he pleases: we can't stop to watch him. I hope you are satisfied, Miss Cathy, that you are not the person to benefit him; and that his condition of health is not occasioned by attachment to you. Now, then, there he is! Come away: as soon as he knows there is nobody by to care for his nonsense, he'll be glad to lie still
I can't do with that
it's not high enough
That's too high
How must I arrange it, then
No, that won't do
You'll be content with the cushion, Master Heathcliff. Miss has wasted too much time on you already: we cannot remain five minutes longer
Yes, yes, we can
He's good and patient now. He's beginning to think I shall have far greater misery than he will to-night, if I believe he is the worse for my visit: and then I dare not come again. Tell the truth about it, Linton; for I musn't come, if I have hurt you
You must come, to cure me
You ought to come, because you have hurt me: you know you have extremely! I was not as ill when you entered as I am at present - was I
But you've made yourself ill by crying and being in a passion. - I didn't do it all
However, we'll be friends now. And you want me: you would wish to see me sometimes, really
I told you I did
Sit on the settle and let me lean on your knee. That's as mamma used to do, whole afternoons together. Sit quite still and don't talk: but you may sing a song, if you can sing; or you may say a nice long interesting ballad - one of those you promised to teach me; or a story. I'd rather have a ballad, though: begin
And to-morrow, Catherine, will you be here to-morrow
No
nor next day neither
You won't go to-morrow, recollect, Miss
You are not dreaming of it, are you
Oh, I'll take good care
I'll have that lock mended, and you can escape by no way else
I can get over the wall
The Grange is not a prison, Ellen, and you are not my gaoler. And besides, I'm almost seventeen: I'm a woman. And I'm certain Linton would recover quickly if he had me to look after him. I'm older than he is, you know, and wiser: less childish, am I not? And he'll soon do as I direct him, with some slight coaxing. He's a pretty little darling when he's good. I'd make such a pet of him, if he were mine. We should, never quarrel, should we after we were used to each other? Don't you like him, Ellen
Like him
The worst-tempered bit of a sickly slip that ever struggled into its teens. Happily, as Mr. Heathcliff conjectured, he'll not win twenty. I doubt whether he'll see spring, indeed. And small loss to his family whenever he drops off. And lucky it is for us that his father took him: the kinder he was treated, the more tedious and selfish he'd be. I'm glad you have no chance of having him for a husband, Miss Catherine
He's younger than I
and he ought to live the longest: he will - he must live as long as I do. He's as strong now as when he first came into the north; I'm positive of that. It's only a cold that ails him, the same as papa has. You say papa will get better, and why shouldn't he
Well, well
after all, we needn't trouble ourselves; for listen, Miss, - and mind, I'll keep my word, - if you attempt going to Wuthering Heights again, with or without me, I shall inform Mr. Linton, and, unless he allow it, the intimacy with your cousin must not be revived
It has been revived
Must not be continued, then
We'll see
Ellen, are not you tired? Hadn't you better lie down now? You'll be sick, keeping up so long, Ellen
No, no, dear, I'm not tired
Ellen, I'm tired
Give over then and talk
My dear Miss Catherine
where have you been riding out at this hour? And why should you try to deceive me by telling a tale? Where have you been? Speak
To the bottom of the park
I didn't tell a tale
And nowhere else
No
Oh, Catherine
You know you have been doing wrong, or you wouldn't be driven to uttering an untruth to me. That does grieve me. I'd rather be three months ill, than hear you frame a deliberate lie
Well, Ellen, I'm so afraid of you being angry
Promise not to be angry, and you shall know the very truth: I hate to hide it
I've been to Wuthering Heights, Ellen, and I've never missed going a day since you fell ill; except thrice before, and twice after you left your room. I gave Michael books and pictures to prepare Minny every evening, and to put her back in the stable: you mustn't scold him either, mind. I was at the Heights by half-past six, and generally stayed till half-past eight, and then galloped home. It was not to amuse myself that I went: I was often wretched all the time. Now and then I was happy: once in a week perhaps. At first, I expected there would be sad work persuading you to let me keep my word to Linton: for I had engaged to call again next day, when we quitted him; but, as you stayed up-stairs on the morrow, I escaped that trouble. While Michael was refastening the lock of the park door in the afternoon, I got possession of the key, and told him how my cousin wished me to visit him, because he was sick, and couldn't come to the Grange; and how papa would object to my going: and then I negotiated with him about the pony. He is fond of reading, and he thinks of leaving soon to get married; so he offered, if I would lend him books out of the library, to do what I wished: but I preferred giving him my own, and that satisfied him better. 'On my second visit Linton seemed in lively spirits; and Zillah (that is their housekeeper) made us a clean room and a good fire, and told us that, as Joseph was out at a prayer-meeting and Hareton Earnshaw was off with his dogs - robbing our woods of pheasants, as I heard afterwards - we might do what we liked. She brought me some warm wine and gingerbread, and appeared exceedingly good- natured, and Linton sat in the arm-chair, and I in the little rocking chair on the hearth-stone, and we laughed and talked so merrily, and found so much to say: we planned where we would go, and what we would do in summer. I needn't repeat that, because you would call it silly. 

'One time, however, we were near quarrelling. He said the pleasantest manner of spending a hot July day was lying from morning till evening on a bank of heath in the middle of the moors, with the bees humming dreamily about among the bloom, and the larks singing high up overhead, and the blue sky and bright sun shining steadily and cloudlessly. That was his most perfect idea of heaven's happiness: mine was rocking in a rustling green tree, with a west wind blowing, and bright white clouds flitting rapidly above; and not only larks, but throstles, and blackbirds, and linnets, and cuckoos pouring out music on every side, and the moors seen at a distance, broken into cool dusky dells; but close by great swells of long grass undulating in waves to the breeze; and woods and sounding water, and the whole world awake and wild with joy. He wanted all to lie in an ecstasy of peace; I wanted all to sparkle and dance in a glorious jubilee. I said his heaven would be only half alive; and he said mine would be drunk: I said I should fall asleep in his; and he said he could not breathe in mine, and began to grow very snappish. At last, we agreed to try both, as soon as the right weather came; and then we kissed each other and were friends. 

'After sitting still an hour, I looked at the great room with its smooth uncarpeted floor, and thought how nice it would be to play in, if we removed the table; and I asked Linton to call Zillah in to help us, and we'd have a game at blindman's-buff; she should try to catch us: you used to, you know, Ellen. He wouldn't: there was no pleasure in it, he said; but he consented to play at ball with me. We found two in a cupboard, among a heap of old toys, tops, and hoops, and battledores and shuttlecocks. One was marked C., and the other H.; I wished to have the C., because that stood for Catherine, and the H. might be for Heathcliff, his name; but the bran came out of H., and Linton didn't like it. I beat him constantly: and he got cross again, and coughed, and returned to his chair. That night, though, he easily recovered his good humour: he was charmed with two or three pretty songs - YOUR songs, Ellen; and when I was obliged to go, he begged and entreated me to come the following evening; and I promised. Minny and I went flying home as light as air; and I dreamt of Wuthering Heights and my sweet, darling cousin, till morning. 

'On the morrow I was sad; partly because you were poorly, and partly that I wished my father knew, and approved of my excursions: but it was beautiful moonlight after tea; and, as I rode on, the gloom cleared. I shall have another happy evening, I thought to myself; and what delights me more, my pretty Linton will. I trotted up their garden, and was turning round to the back, when that fellow Earnshaw met me, took my bridle, and bid me go in by the front entrance. He patted Minny's neck, and said she was a bonny beast, and appeared as if he wanted me to speak to him. I only told him to leave my horse alone, or else it would kick him. He answered in his vulgar accent, "It wouldn't do mitch hurt if it did;" and surveyed its legs with a smile. I was half inclined to make it try; however, he moved off to open the door, and, as he raised the latch, he looked up to the inscription above, and said, with a stupid mixture of awkwardness and elation: "Miss Catherine! I can read yon, now." 

' "Wonderful," I exclaimed. "Pray let us hear you - you ARE grown clever!" 

'He spelt, and drawled over by syllables, the name - "Hareton Earnshaw." 

' "And the figures?" I cried, encouragingly, perceiving that he came to a dead halt. 

' "I cannot tell them yet," he answered. 

' "Oh, you dunce!" I said, laughing heartily at his failure. 

'The fool stared, with a grin hovering about his lips, and a scowl gathering over his eyes, as if uncertain whether he might not join in my mirth: whether it were not pleasant familiarity, or what it really was, contempt. I settled his doubts, by suddenly retrieving my gravity and desiring him to walk away, for I came to see Linton, not him. He reddened - I saw that by the moonlight - dropped his hand from the latch, and skulked off, a picture of mortified vanity. He imagined himself to be as accomplished as Linton, I suppose, because he could spell his own name; and was marvellously discomfited that I didn't think the same
Stop, Miss Catherine, dear
I shall not scold, but I don't like your conduct there. If you had remembered that Hareton was your cousin as much as Master Heathcliff, you would have felt how improper it was to behave in that way. At least, it was praiseworthy ambition for him to desire to be as accomplished as Linton; and probably he did not learn merely to show off: you had made him ashamed of his ignorance before, I have no doubt; and he wished to remedy it and please you. To sneer at his imperfect attempt was very bad breeding. Had you been brought up in his circumstances, would you be less rude? He was as quick and as intelligent a child as ever you were; and I'm hurt that he should be despised now, because that base Heathcliff has treated him so unjustly
Well, Ellen, you won't cry about it, will you
Thear, that's t' father!" he cried. "That's father! We've allas summut o' either side in us. Niver heed, Hareton, lad - dunnut be 'feard - he cannot get at thee!" 'I took hold of Linton's hands, and tried to pull him away; but he shrieked so shockingly that I dared not proceed. At last his cries were choked by a dreadful fit of coughing; blood gushed from his mouth, and he fell on the ground. I ran into the yard, sick with terror; and called for Zillah, as loud as I could. She soon heard me: she was milking the cows in a shed behind the barn, and hurrying from her work, she inquired what there was to do? I hadn't breath to explain; dragging her in, I looked about for Linton. Earnshaw had come out to examine the mischief he had caused, and he was then conveying the poor thing up-stairs. Zillah and I ascended after him; but he stopped me at the top of the steps, and said I shouldn't go in: I must go home. I exclaimed that he had killed Linton, and I WOULD enter. Joseph locked the door, and declared I should do "no sich stuff," and asked me whether I were "bahn to be as mad as him." I stood crying till the housekeeper reappeared. She affirmed he would be better in a bit, but he couldn't do with that shrieking and din; and she took me, and nearly carried me into the house. 

'Ellen, I was ready to tear my hair off my head! I sobbed and wept so that my eyes were almost blind; and the ruffian you have such sympathy with stood opposite: presuming every now and then to bid me "wisht," and denying that it was his fault; and, finally, frightened by my assertions that I would tell papa, and that he should be put in prison and hanged, he commenced blubbering himself, and hurried out to hide his cowardly agitation. Still, I was not rid of him: when at length they compelled me to depart, and I had got some hundred yards off the premises, he suddenly issued from the shadow of the road-side, and checked Minny and took hold of me. 

' "Miss Catherine, I'm ill grieved," he began, "but it's rayther too bad - " 

'I gave him a cut with my whip, thinking perhaps he would murder me. He let go, thundering one of his horrid curses, and I galloped home more than half out of my senses. 

'I didn't bid you good-night that evening, and I didn't go to Wuthering Heights the next: I wished to go exceedingly; but I was strangely excited, and dreaded to hear that Linton was dead, sometimes; and sometimes shuddered at the thought of encountering Hareton. On the third day I took courage: at least, I couldn't bear longer suspense, and stole off once more. I went at five o'clock, and walked; fancying I might manage to creep into the house, and up to Linton's room, unobserved. However, the dogs gave notice of my approach. Zillah received me, and saying "the lad was mending nicely," showed me into a small, tidy, carpeted apartment, where, to my inexpressible joy, I beheld Linton laid on a little sofa, reading one of my books. But he would neither speak to me nor look at me, through a whole hour, Ellen: he has such an unhappy temper. And what quite confounded me, when he did open his mouth, it was to utter the falsehood that I had occasioned the uproar, and Hareton was not to blame! Unable to reply, except passionately, I got up and walked from the room. He sent after me a faint "Catherine!" He did not reckon on being answered so: but I wouldn't turn back; and the morrow was the second day on which I stayed at home, nearly determined to visit him no more. But it was so miserable going to bed and getting up, and never hearing anything about him, that my resolution melted into air before it was properly formed. It had appeared wrong to take the journey once; now it seemed wrong to refrain. Michael came to ask if he must saddle Minny; I said "Yes," and considered myself doing a duty as she bore me over the hills. I was forced to pass the front windows to get to the court: it was no use trying to conceal my presence. 

' "Young master is in the house," said Zillah, as she saw me making for the parlour. I went in; Earnshaw was there also, but he quitted the room directly. Linton sat in the great arm-chair half asleep; walking up to the fire, I began in a serious tone, partly meaning it to be true - 

' "As you don't like me, Linton, and as you think I come on purpose to hurt you, and pretend that I do so every time, this is our last meeting: let us say good-bye; and tell Mr. Heathcliff that you have no wish to see me, and that he mustn't invent any more falsehoods on the subject." 

' "Sit down and take your hat off, Catherine," he answered. "You are so much happier than I am, you ought to be better. Papa talks enough of my defects, and shows enough scorn of me, to make it natural I should doubt myself. I doubt whether I am not altogether as worthless as he calls me, frequently; and then I feel so cross and bitter, I hate everybody! I am worthless, and bad in temper, and bad in spirit, almost always; and, if you choose, you may say good-bye: you'll get rid of an annoyance. Only, Catherine, do me this justice: believe that if I might be as sweet, and as kind, and as good as you are, I would be; as willingly, and more so, than as happy and as healthy. And believe that your kindness has made me love you deeper than if I deserved your love: and though I couldn't, and cannot help showing my nature to you, I regret it and repent it; and shall regret and repent it till I die!" 

'I felt he spoke the truth; and I felt I must forgive him: and, though we should quarrel the next moment, I must forgive him again. We were reconciled; but we cried, both of us, the whole time I stayed: not entirely for sorrow; yet I WAS sorry Linton had that distorted nature. He'll never let his friends be at ease, and he'll never be at ease himself! I have always gone to his little parlour, since that night; because his father returned the day after. 

'About three times, I think, we have been merry and hopeful, as we were the first evening; the rest of my visits were dreary and troubled: now with his selfishness and spite, and now with his sufferings: but I've learned to endure the former with nearly as little resentment as the latter. Mr. Heathcliff purposely avoids me: I have hardly seen him at all. Last Sunday, indeed, coming earlier than usual, I heard him abusing poor Linton cruelly for his conduct of the night before. I can't tell how he knew of it, unless he listened. Linton had certainly behaved provokingly: however, it was the business of nobody but me, and I interrupted Mr. Heathcliff's lecture by entering and telling him so. He burst into a laugh, and went away, saying he was glad I took that view of the matter. Since then, I've told Linton he must whisper his bitter things. Now, Ellen, you have heard all. I can't be prevented from going to Wuthering Heights, except by inflicting misery on two people; whereas, if you'll only not tell papa, my going need disturb the tranquillity of none. You'll not tell, will you? It will be very heartless, if you do
I'll make up my mind on that point by to-morrow, Miss Catherine
It requires some study; and so I'll leave you to your rest, and go think it over
THESE things happened last winter, sir
hardly more than a year ago. Last winter, I did not think, at another twelve months' end, I should be amusing a stranger to the family with relating them! Yet, who knows how long you'll be a stranger? You're too young to rest always contented, living by yourself; and I some way fancy no one could see Catherine Linton and not love her. You smile; but why do you look so lively and interested when I talk about her? and why have you asked me to hang her picture over your fireplace? and why
Stop, my good friend
It may be very possible that I should love her; but would she love me? I doubt it too much to venture my tranquillity by running into temptation: and then my home is not here. I'm of the busy world, and to its arms I must return. Go on. Was Catherine obedient to her father's commands
She was
He's very delicate, sir," I replied; "and scarcely likely to reach manhood: but this I can say, he does not resemble his father; and if Miss Catherine had the misfortune to marry him, he would not be beyond her control: unless she were extremely and foolishly indulgent. However, master, you'll have plenty of time to get acquainted with him and see whether he would suit her: it wants four years and more to his being of age
I've prayed often
for the approach of what is coming; and now I begin to shrink, and fear it. I thought the memory of the hour I came down that glen a bridegroom would be less sweet than the anticipation that I was soon, in a few months, or, possibly, weeks, to be carried up, and laid in its lonely hollow! Ellen, I've been very happy with my little Cathy: through winter nights and summer days she was a living hope at my side. But I've been as happy musing by myself among those stones, under that old church: lying, through the long June evenings, on the green mound of her mother's grave, and wishing - yearning for the time when I might lie beneath it. What can I do for Cathy? How must I quit her? I'd not care one moment for Linton being Heathcliff's son; nor for his taking her from me, if he could console her for my loss. I'd not care that Heathcliff gained his ends, and triumphed in robbing me of my last blessing! But should Linton be unworthy - only a feeble tool to his father - I cannot abandon her to him! And, hard though it be to crush her buoyant spirit, I must persevere in making her sad while I live, and leaving her solitary when I die. Darling! I'd rather resign her to God, and lay her in the earth before me
Resign her to God as it is, sir
and if we should lose you - which may He forbid - under His providence, I'll stand her friend and counsellor to the last. Miss Catherine is a good girl: I don't fear that she will go wilfully wrong; and people who do their duty are always finally rewarded
You'll surely not go out to-night, sir
No, I'll defer it this year a little longer
I do not ask
that she may visit here; but am I never to see her, because my father forbids me to go to her home, and you forbid her to come to mine? Do, now and then, ride with her towards the Heights; and let us exchange a few words, in your presence! We have done nothing to deserve this separation; and you are not angry with me: you have no reason to dislike me, you allow, yourself. Dear uncle! send me a kind note to-morrow, and leave to join you anywhere you please, except at Thrushcross Grange. I believe an interview would convince you that my father's character is not mine: he affirms I am more your nephew than his son; and though I have faults which render me unworthy of Catherine, she has excused them, and for her sake, you should also. You inquire after my health - it is better; but while I remain cut off from all hope, and doomed to solitude, or the society of those who never did and never will like me, how can I be cheerful and well
Maister Linton wer just o' this side th' Heights: and he'd be mitch obleeged to us to gang on a bit further
Then Master Linton has forgot the first injunction of his uncle
he bid us keep on the Grange land, and here we are off at once
Well, we'll turn our horses' heads round when we reach him
our excursion shall lie towards home
Why, Master Heathcliff, you are not fit for enjoying a ramble this morning. How ill you do look
No - better - better
But you have been worse
I'm tired
It is too hot for walking, let us rest here. And, in the morning, I often feel sick - papa says I grow so fast
This is something like your paradise
You recollect the two days we agreed to spend in the place and way each thought pleasantest? This is nearly yours, only there are clouds; but then they are so soft and mellow: it is nicer than sunshine. Next week, if you can, we'll ride down to the Grange Park, and try mine
But I think
you'd be more comfortable at home than sitting here; and I cannot amuse you to-day, I see, by my tales, and songs, and chatter: you have grown wiser than I, in these six months; you have little taste for my diversions now: or else, if I could amuse you, I'd willingly stay
Stay to rest yourself
And, Catherine, don't think or say that I'm VERY unwell: it is the heavy weather and heat that make me dull; and I walked about, before you came, a great deal for me. Tell uncle I'm in tolerable health, will you
I'll tell him that YOU say so, Linton. I couldn't affirm that you are
And be here again next Thursday
And give him my thanks for permitting you to come - my best thanks, Catherine. And - and, if you DID meet my father, and he asked you about me, don't lead him to suppose that I've been extremely silent and stupid: don't look sad and downcast, as you are doing - he'll be angry
I care nothing for his anger
But I do
DON'T provoke him against me, Catherine, for he is very hard
Is he severe to you, Master Heathcliff
Has he grown weary of indulgence, and passed from passive to active hatred
Is it half-an-hour now, Ellen
I can't tell why we should stay. He's asleep, and papa will be wanting us back
Well, we must not leave him asleep
wait till lie wakes, and be patient. You were mighty eager to set off, but your longing to see poor Linton has soon evaporated
Why did HE wish to see me
In his crossest humours, formerly, I liked him better than I do in his present curious mood. It's just as if it were a task he was compelled to perform - this interview - for fear his father should scold him. But I'm hardly going to come to give Mr. Heathcliff pleasure; whatever reason he may have for ordering Linton to undergo this penance. And, though I'm glad he's better in health, I'm sorry he's so much less pleasant, and so much less affectionate to me
You think HE IS better in health, then
Yes
because he always made such a great deal of his sufferings, you know. He is not tolerably well, as he told me to tell papa; but he's better, very likely
There you differ with me, Miss Cathy
I should conjecture him to be far worse
No
unless in dreams. I cannot conceive how you manage to doze out of doors, in the morning
I thought I heard my father
You are sure nobody spoke
Quite sure
Only Ellen and I were disputing concerning your health. Are you truly stronger, Linton, than when we separated in winter? If you be, I'm certain one thing is not stronger - your regard for me: speak, - are you
Yes, yes, I am
For to-day we must part
And I won't conceal that I have been sadly disappointed with our meeting; though I'll mention it to nobody but you: not that I stand in awe of Mr. Heathcliff
Hush
for God's sake, hush! He's coming
I'll be here next Thursday
Good-bye. Quick, Ellen
It is late
Is not your father very ill? I thought you wouldn't come
WHY won't you be candid
Why cannot you say at once you don't want me? It is strange, Linton, that for the second time you have brought me here on purpose, apparently to distress us both, and for no reason besides
My father IS very ill
and why am I called from his bedside? Why didn't you send to absolve me from my promise, when you wished I wouldn't keep it? Come! I desire an explanation: playing and trifling are completely banished out of my mind; and I can't dance attendance on your affectations now
My affectations
what are they? For heaven's sake, Catherine, don't look so angry! Despise me as much as you please; I am a worthless, cowardly wretch: I can't be scorned enough; but I'm too mean for your anger. Hate my father, and spare me for contempt
Nonsense
Foolish, silly boy! And there! he trembles: as if I were really going to touch him! You needn't bespeak contempt, Linton: anybody will have it spontaneously at your service. Get off! I shall return home: it is folly dragging you from the hearth-stone, and pretending - what do we pretend? Let go my frock! If I pitied you for crying and looking so very frightened, you should spurn such pity. Ellen, tell him how disgraceful this conduct is. Rise, and don't degrade yourself into an abject reptile - DON'T
Oh
I cannot bear it! Catherine, Catherine, I'm a traitor, too, and I dare not tell you! But leave me, and I shall be killed! DEAR Catherine, my life is in your hands: and you have said you loved me, and if you did, it wouldn't harm you. You'll not go, then? kind, sweet, good Catherine! And perhaps you WILL consent - and he'll let me die with you
Consent to what
To stay! tell me the meaning of this strange talk, and I will. You contradict your own words, and distract me! Be calm and frank, and confess at once all that weighs on your heart. You wouldn't injure me, Linton, would you? You wouldn't let any enemy hurt me, if you could prevent it? I'll believe you are a coward, for yourself, but not a cowardly betrayer of your best friend
But my father threatened me
and I dread him - I dread him! I DARE not tell
Oh, well
keep your secret: I'M no coward. Save yourself: I'm not afraid
It is something to see you so near to my house, Nelly. How are you at the Grange? Let us hear. The rumour goes
that Edgar Linton is on his death-bed: perhaps they exaggerate his illness
No; my master is dying
it is true enough. A sad thing it will be for us all, but a blessing for him
How long will he last, do you think
I don't know
Because
because that lad yonder seems determined to beat me; and I'd thank his uncle to be quick, and go before him! Hallo! has the whelp been playing that game long? I DID give him some lessons about snivelling. Is he pretty lively with Miss Linton generally
Lively? no - he has shown the greatest distress
To see him, I should say, that instead of rambling with his sweetheart on the hills, he ought to be in bed, under the hands of a doctor
He shall be, in a day or two
But first - get up, Linton! Get up
Don't grovel on the ground there up, this moment
Now
I'm getting angry and if you don't command that paltry spirit of yours - DAMN you! get up directly
I will, father
Only, let me alone, or I shall faint. I've done as you wished, I'm sure. Catherine will tell you that I - that I - have been cheerful. Ah! keep by me, Catherine; give me your hand
Take mine
stand on your feet. There now - she'll lend you her arm: that's right, look at her. You would imagine I was the devil himself, Miss Linton, to excite such horror. Be so kind as to walk home with him, will you? He shudders if I touch him
Linton dear
I can't go to Wuthering Heights: papa has forbidden me. He'll not harm you: why are you so afraid
I can never re-enter that house
I'm NOT to re- enter it without you
Stop
We'll respect Catherine's filial scruples. Nelly, take him in, and I'll follow your advice concerning the doctor, without delay
You'll do well
But I must remain with my mistress: to mind your son is not my business
You are very stiff
I know that: but you'll force me to pinch the baby and make it scream before it moves your charity. Come, then, my hero. Are you willing to return, escorted by me
My house is not stricken with the plague, Nelly; and I have a mind to be hospitable to-day: sit down, and allow me to shut the door
You shall have tea before you go home
I am by myself. Hareton is gone with some cattle to the Lees, and Zillah and Joseph are off on a journey of pleasure; and, though I'm used to being alone, I'd rather have some interesting company, if I can get it. Miss Linton, take your seat by HIM. I give you what I have: the present is hardly worth accepting; but I have nothing else to offer. It is Linton, I mean. How she does stare! It's odd what a savage feeling I have to anything that seems afraid of me! Had I been born where laws are less strict and tastes less dainty, I should treat myself to a slow vivisection of those two, as an evening's amusement
By hell! I hate them
I am not afraid of you
Give me that key: I will have it
I wouldn't eat or drink here, if I were starving
Now, Catherine Linton
stand off, or I shall knock you down; and, that will make Mrs. Dean mad
We will go
You villain
you villain
I know how to chastise children, you see
Go to Linton now, as I told you; and cry at your ease! I shall be your father, to-morrow - all the father you'll have in a few days - and you shall have plenty of that. You can bear plenty; you're no weakling: you shall have a daily taste, if I catch such a devil of a temper in your eyes again
Wash away your spleen
And help your own naughty pet and mine. It is not poisoned, though I prepared it. I'm going out to seek your horses
Master Linton
you know what your diabolical father is after, and you shall tell us, or I'll box your ears, as he has done your cousin's
Yes, Linton, you must tell
It was for your sake I came; and it will be wickedly ungrateful if you refuse
Give me some tea, I'm thirsty, and then I'll tell you
Mrs. Dean, go away. I don't like you standing over me. Now, Catherine, you are letting your tears fall into my cup. I won't drink that. Give me another
Papa wants us to be married
And he knows your papa wouldn't let us marry now; and he's afraid of my dying if we wait; so we are to be married in the morning, and you are to stay here all night; and, if you do as he wishes, you shall return home next day, and take me with you
Take you with her, pitiful changeling
YOU marry? Why, the man is mad! or he thinks us fools, every one. And do you imagine that beautiful young lady, that healthy, hearty girl, will tie herself to a little perishing monkey like you? Are you cherishing the notion that anybody, let alone Miss Catherine Linton, would have you for a husband? You want whipping for bringing us in here at all, with your dastardly puling tricks: and - don't look so silly, now! I've a very good mind to shake you severely, for your contemptible treachery, and your imbecile conceit
Stay all night? No
Ellen, I'll burn that door down but I'll get out
Won't you have me, and save me? not let me come to the Grange? Oh, darling Catherine! you mustn't go and leave, after all. You MUST obey my father - you MUST
I must obey my own
and relieve him from this cruel suspense. The whole night! What would he think? He'll be distressed already. I'll either break or burn a way out of the house. Be quiet! You're in no danger; but if you hinder me - Linton, I love papa better than you
Your beasts have trotted off
and - now Linton! snivelling again? What has she been doing to you? Come, come - have done, and get to bed. In a month or two, my lad, you'll be able to pay her back her present tyrannies with a vigorous hand. You're pining for pure love, are you not? nothing else in the world: and she shall have you! There, to bed! Zillah won't be here to-night; you must undress yourself. Hush! hold your noise! Once in your own room, I'll not come near you: you needn't fear. By chance, you've managed tolerably. I'll look to the rest
Oh! you are not afraid of me? Your courage is well disguised: you seem damnably afraid
I AM afraid now
because, if I stay, papa will be miserable: and how can I endure making him miserable - when he - when he - Mr. Heathcliff, let ME go home! I promise to marry Linton: papa would like me to: and I love him. Why should you wish to force me to do what I'll willingly do of myself
Let him dare to force you
There's law in the land, thank God! there is; though we be in an out-of-the-way place. I'd inform if he were my own son: and it's felony without benefit of clergy
Silence
To the devil with your clamour! I don't want YOU to speak. Miss Linton, I shall enjoy myself remarkably in thinking your father will be miserable: I shall not sleep for satisfaction. You could have hit on no surer way of fixing your residence under my roof for the next twenty-four hours than informing me that such an event would follow. As to your promise to marry Linton, I'll take care you shall keep it; for you shall not quit this place till it is fulfilled
Send Ellen, then, to let papa know I'm safe
Or marry me now. Poor papa! Ellen, he'll think we're lost. What shall we do
Not he! He'll think you are tired of waiting on him, and run off for a little amusement
You cannot deny that you entered my house of your own accord, in contempt of his injunctions to the contrary. And it is quite natural that you should desire amusement at your age; and that you would weary of nursing a sick man, and that man ONLY your father. Catherine, his happiest days were over when your days began. He cursed you, I dare say, for coming into the world (I did, at least); and it would just do if he cursed you as HE went out of it. I'd join him. I don't love you! How should I? Weep away. As far as I can see, it will be your chief diversion hereafter; unless Linton make amends for other losses: and your provident parent appears to fancy he may. His letters of advice and consolation entertained me vastly. In his last he recommended my jewel to be careful of his; and kind to her when he got her. Careful and kind - that's paternal. But Linton requires his whole stock of care and kindness for himself. Linton can play the little tyrant well. He'll undertake to torture any number of cats, if their teeth be drawn and their claws pared. You'll be able to tell his uncle fine tales of his KINDNESS, when you get home again, I assure you
You're right there
explain your son's character. Show his resemblance to yourself: and then, I hope, Miss Cathy will think twice before she takes the cockatrice
I don't much mind speaking of his amiable qualities now
because she must either accept him or remain a prisoner, and you along with her, till your master dies. I can detain you both, quite concealed, here. If you doubt, encourage her to retract her word, and you'll have an opportunity of judging
I'll not retract my word
I'll marry him within this hour, if I may go to Thrushcross Grange afterwards. Mr. Heathcliff, you're a cruel man, but you're not a fiend; and you won't, from MERE malice, destroy irrevocably all my happiness. If papa thought I had left him on purpose, and if he died before I returned, could I bear to live? I've given over crying: but I'm going to kneel here, at your knee; and I'll not get up, and I'll not take my eyes from your face till you look back at me! No, don't turn away! DO LOOK! you'll see nothing to provoke you. I don't hate you. I'm not angry that you struck me. Have you never loved ANYBODY in all your life, uncle? NEVER? Ah! you must look once. I'm so wretched, you can't help being sorry and pitying me
Keep your eft's fingers off; and move, or I'll kick you
I'd rather be hugged by a snake. How the devil can you dream of fawning on me? I DETEST you
I thought it had been your cousin Hareton
I wish he would arrive! Who knows but he might take our part
It was three servants sent to seek you from the Grange
You should have opened a lattice and called out: but I could swear that chit is glad you didn't. She's glad to be obliged to stay, I'm certain
Yes
Here, then
Be patient
I'll send up your breakfast in a while
I've brought you something to eat
oppen t' door
Tak' it
Stay one minute
Nay
Eh, dear! Mrs. Dean
Well! there is a talk about you at Gimmerton. I never thought but you were sunk in the Blackhorse marsh, and missy with you, till master told me you'd been found, and he'd lodged you here! What! and you must have got on an island, sure? And how long were you in the hole? Did master save you, Mrs. Dean? But you're not so thin - you've not been so poorly, have you
Your master is a true scoundrel
But he shall answer for it. He needn't have raised that tale: it shall all be laid bare
What do you mean
It's not his tale: they tell that in the village - about your being lost in the marsh; and I calls to Earnshaw, when I come in - "Eh, they's queer things, Mr. Hareton, happened since I went off. It's a sad pity of that likely young lass, and cant Nelly Dean." He stared. I thought he had not heard aught, so I told him the rumour. The master listened, and he just smiled to himself, and said, "If they have been in the marsh, they are out now, Zillah. Nelly Dean is lodged, at this minute, in your room. You can tell her to flit, when you go up; here is the key. The bog-water got into her head, and she would have run home quite flighty; but I fixed her till she came round to her senses. You can bid her go to the Grange at once, if she be able, and carry a message from me, that her young lady will follow in time to attend the squire's funeral
Mr. Edgar is not dead
Oh! Zillah, Zillah
No, no; sit you down, my good mistress
you're right sickly yet. He's not dead; Doctor Kenneth thinks he may last another day. I met him on the road and asked
Where is Miss Catherine
Is she gone
No
she's upstairs: she's not to go; we won't let her
You won't let her, little idiot
Direct me to her room immediately, or I'll make you sing out sharply
Papa would make you sing out, if you attempted to get there
He says I'm not to be soft with Catherine: she's my wife, and it's shameful that she should wish to leave me. He says she hates me and wants me to die, that she may have my money; but she shan't have it: and she shan't go home! She never shall! - she may cry, and be sick as much as she pleases
Master Heathcliff
have you forgotten all Catherine's kindness to you last winter, when you affirmed you loved her, and when she brought you books and sung you songs, and came many a time through wind and snow to see you? She wept to miss one evening, because you would be disappointed; and you felt then that she was a hundred times too good to you: and now you believe the lies your father tells, though you know he detests you both. And you join him against her. That's fine gratitude, is it not
Did she come to Wuthering Heights because she hated you
Think for yourself! As to your money, she does not even know that you will have any. And you say she's sick; and yet you leave her alone, up there in a strange house! You who have felt what it is to be so neglected! You could pity your own sufferings; and she pitied them, too; but you won't pity hers! I shed tears, Master Heathcliff, you see - an elderly woman, and a servant merely - and you, after pretending such affection, and having reason to worship her almost, store every tear you have for yourself, and lie there quite at ease. Ah! you're a heartless, selfish boy
I can't stay with her
I'll not stay by myself. She cries so I can't bear it. And she won't give over, though I say I'll call my father. I did call him once, and he threatened to strangle her if she was not quiet; but she began again the instant he left the room, moaning and grieving all night long, though I screamed for vexation that I couldn't sleep
Is Mr. Heathcliff out
He's in the court
talking to Doctor Kenneth; who says uncle is dying, truly, at last. I'm glad, for I shall be master of the Grange after him. Catherine always spoke of it as her house. It isn't hers! It's mine: papa says everything she has is mine. All her nice books are mine; she offered to give me them, and her pretty birds, and her pony Minny, if I would get the key of our room, and let her out; but I told her she had nothing to give, they ware all, all mine. And then she cried, and took a little picture from her neck, and said I should have that; two pictures in a gold case, on one side her mother, and on the other uncle, when they were young. That was yesterday - I said they were mine, too; and tried to get them from her. The spiteful thing wouldn't let me: she pushed me off, and hurt me. I shrieked out - that frightens her - she heard papa coming, and she broke the hinges and divided the case, and gave me her mother's portrait; the other she attempted to hide: but papa asked what was the matter, and I explained it. He took the one I had away, and ordered her to resign hers to me; she refused, and he - he struck her down, and wrenched it off the chain, and crushed it with his foot
And were you pleased to see her struck
I winked
I wink to see my father strike a dog or a horse, he does it so hard. Yet I was glad at first - she deserved punishing for pushing me: but when papa was gone, she made me come to the window and showed me her cheek cut on the inside, against her teeth, and her mouth filling with blood; and then she gathered up the bits of the picture, and went and sat down with her face to the wall, and she has never spoken to me since: and I sometimes think she can't speak for pain. I don't like to think so; but she's a naughty thing for crying continually; and she looks so pale and wild, I'm afraid of her
And you can get the key if you choose
Yes, when I am up-stairs
but I can't walk up- stairs now
In what apartment is it
Oh
I shan't tell YOU where it is. It is our secret. Nobody, neither Hareton nor Zillah, is to know. There! you've tired me - go away, go away
Catherine is coming, dear master
she is alive and well; and will be here, I hope, to-night
Oh! it is Green
only Green
Ellen, Ellen! Is papa alive
Yes
yes, my angel, he is, God be thanked, you are safe with us again
I am going to her; and you, darling child, shall come to us
Stop
No more runnings away! Where would you go? I'm come to fetch you home; and I hope you'll be a dutiful daughter and not encourage my son to further disobedience. I was embarrassed how to punish him when I discovered his part in the business: he's such a cobweb, a pinch would annihilate him; but you'll see by his look that he has received his due! I brought him down one evening, the day before yesterday, and just set him in a chair, and never touched him afterwards. I sent Hareton out, and we had the room to ourselves. In two hours, I called Joseph to carry him up again; and since then my presence is as potent on his nerves as a ghost; and I fancy he sees me often, though I am not near. Hareton says he wakes and shrieks in the night by the hour together, and calls you to protect him from me; and, whether you like your precious mate, or not, you must come: he's your concern now; I yield all my interest in him to you
Why not let Catherine continue here
and send Master Linton to her? As you hate them both, you'd not miss them: they can only be a daily plague to your unnatural heart
I'm seeking a tenant for the Grange
and I want my children about me, to be sure. Besides, that lass owes me her services for her bread. I'm not going to nurture her in luxury and idleness after Linton is gone. Make haste and get ready, now; and don't oblige me to compel you
I shall
Linton is all I have to love in the world, and though you have done what you could to make him hateful to me, and me to him, you cannot make us hate each other. And I defy you to hurt him when I am by, and I defy you to frighten me
You are a boastful champion
but I don't like you well enough to hurt him: you shall get the full benefit of the torment, as long as it lasts. It is not I who will make him hateful to you - it is his own sweet spirit. He's as bitter as gall at your desertion and its consequences: don't expect thanks for this noble devotion. I heard him draw a pleasant picture to Zillah of what he would do if he were as strong as I: the inclination is there, and his very weakness will sharpen his wits to find a substitute for strength
I know he has a bad nature
he's your son. But I'm glad I've a better, to forgive it; and I know he loves me, and for that reason I love him. Mr. Heathcliff YOU have NOBODY to love you; and, however miserable you make us, we shall still have the revenge of thinking that your cruelty arises from your greater misery. You ARE miserable, are you not? Lonely, like the devil, and envious like him? NOBODY loves you - NOBODY will cry for you when you die! I wouldn't be you
You shall be sorry to be yourself presently
if you stand there another minute. Begone, witch, and get your things
I'll tell you what I did yesterday! I got the sexton, who was digging Linton's grave, to remove the earth off her coffin lid, and I opened it. I thought, once, I would have stayed there: when I saw her face again - it is hers yet! - he had hard work to stir me; but he said it would change if the air blew on it, and so I struck one side of the coffin loose, and covered it up: not Linton's side, damn him! I wish he'd been soldered in lead. And I bribed the sexton to pull it away when I'm laid there, and slide mine out too; I'll have it made so: and then by the time Linton gets to us he'll not know which is which
You were very wicked, Mr. Heathcliff
were you not ashamed to disturb the dead
I disturbed nobody, Nelly
and I gave some ease to myself. I shall be a great deal more comfortable now; and you'll have a better chance of keeping me underground, when I get there. Disturbed her? No! she has disturbed me, night and day, through eighteen years - incessantly - remorselessly - till yesternight; and yesternight I was tranquil. I dreamt I was sleeping the last sleep by that sleeper, with my heart stopped and my cheek frozen against hers
And if she had been dissolved into earth, or worse, what would you have dreamt of then
Of dissolving with her, and being more happy still
I'll have her in my arms again! If she be cold, I'll think it is this north wind that chills ME; and if she be motionless, it is sleep." I got a spade from the tool-house, and began to delve with all my might - it scraped the coffin; I fell to work with my hands; the wood commenced cracking about the screws; I was on the point of attaining my object, when it seemed that I heard a sigh from some one above, close at the edge of the grave, and bending down. "If I can only get this off," I muttered, "I wish they may shovel in the earth over us both!" and I wrenched at it more desperately still. There was another sigh, close at my ear. I appeared to feel the warm breath of it displacing the sleet-laden wind. I knew no living thing in flesh and blood was by; but, as certainly as you perceive the approach to some substantial body in the dark, though it cannot be discerned, so certainly I felt that Cathy was there: not under me, but on the earth. A sudden sense of relief flowed from my heart through every limb. I relinquished my labour of agony, and turned consoled at once: unspeakably consoled. Her presence was with me: it remained while I re-filled the grave, and led me home. You may laugh, if you will; but I was sure I should see her there. I was sure she was with me, and I could not help talking to her. Having reached the Heights, I rushed eagerly to the door. It was fastened; and, I remember, that accursed Earnshaw and my wife opposed my entrance. I remember stopping to kick the breath out of him, and then hurrying up-stairs, to my room and hers. I looked round impatiently - I felt her by me - I could ALMOST see her, and yet I COULD NOT! I ought to have sweat blood then, from the anguish of my yearning - from the fervour of my supplications to have but one glimpse! I had not one. She showed herself, as she often was in life, a devil to me! And, since then, sometimes more and sometimes less, I've been the sport of that intolerable torture! Infernal! keeping my nerves at such a stretch that, if they had not resembled catgut, they would long ago have relaxed to the feebleness of Linton's. When I sat in the house with Hareton, it seemed that on going out I should meet her; when I walked on the moors I should meet her coming in. When I went from home I hastened to return; she MUST be somewhere at the Heights, I was certain! And when I slept in her chamber - I was beaten out of that. I couldn't lie there; for the moment I closed my eyes, she was either outside the window, or sliding back the panels, or entering the room, or even resting her darling head on the same pillow as she did when a child; and I must open my lids to see. And so I opened and closed them a hundred times a night - to be always disappointed! It racked me! I've often groaned aloud, till that old rascal Joseph no doubt believed that my conscience was playing the fiend inside of me. Now, since I've seen her, I'm pacified - a little. It was a strange way of killing: not by inches, but by fractions of hairbreadths, to beguile me with the spectre of a hope through eighteen years
Send that over to-morrow
You may do without your pony: it is a fine evening, and you'll need no ponies at Wuthering Heights; for what journeys you take, your own feet will serve you. Come along
Good-bye, Ellen
Come and see me, Ellen; don't forget
Take care you do no such thing, Mrs. Dean
When I wish to speak to you I'll come here. I want none of your prying at my house
thrang
The first thing Mrs. Linton did
We know that!" answered Heathcliff; "but his life is not worth a farthing, and I won't spend a farthing on him." ' "But I cannot tell how to do," she said; "and if nobody will help me, he'll die!" 

' "Walk out of the room," cried the master, "and let me never hear a word more about him! None here care what becomes of him; if you do, act the nurse; if you do not, lock him up and leave him." 

'Then she began to bother me, and I said I'd had enough plague with the tiresome thing; we each had our tasks, and hers was to wait on Linton: Mr. Heathcliff bid me leave that labour to her. 

'How they managed together, I can't tell. I fancy he fretted a great deal, and moaned hisseln night and day; and she had precious little rest: one could guess by her white face and heavy eyes. She sometimes came into the kitchen all wildered like, and looked as if she would fain beg assistance; but I was not going to disobey the master: I never dare disobey him, Mrs. Dean; and, though I thought it wrong that Kenneth should not be sent for, it was no concern of mine either to advise or complain, and I always refused to meddle. Once or twice, after we had gone to bed, I've happened to open my door again and seen her sitting crying on the stairs'- top; and then I've shut myself in quick, for fear of being moved to interfere. I did pity her then, I'm sure: still I didn't wish to lose my place, you know. 

'At last, one night she came boldly into my chamber, and frightened me out of my wits, by saying, "Tell Mr. Heathcliff that his son is dying - I'm sure he is, this time. Get up, instantly, and tell him." 

'Having uttered this speech, she vanished again. I lay a quarter of an hour listening and trembling. Nothing stirred - the house was quiet. 

'She's mistaken, I said to myself. He's got over it. I needn't disturb them; and I began to doze. But my sleep was marred a second time by a sharp ringing of the bell - the only bell we have, put up on purpose for Linton; and the master called to me to see what was the matter, and inform them that he wouldn't have that noise repeated. 

'I delivered Catherine's message. He cursed to himself, and in a few minutes came out with a lighted candle, and proceeded to their room. I followed. Mrs. Heathcliff was seated by the bedside, with her hands folded on her knees. Her father-in-law went up, held the light to Linton's face, looked at him, and touched him; afterwards he turned to her. 

' "Now - Catherine," he said, "how do you feel?" 

'She was dumb. 

' "How do you feel, Catherine?" he repeated. 

' "He's safe, and I'm free," she answered: "I should feel well - but," she continued, with a bitterness she couldn't conceal, "you have left me so long to struggle against death alone, that I feel and see only death! I feel like death!" 

'And she looked like it, too! I gave her a little wine. Hareton and Joseph, who had been wakened by the ringing and the sound of feet, and heard our talk from outside, now entered. Joseph was fain, I believe, of the lad's removal; Hareton seemed a thought bothered: though he was more taken up with staring at Catherine than thinking of Linton. But the master bid him get off to bed again: we didn't want his help. He afterwards made Joseph remove the body to his chamber, and told me to return to mine, and Mrs. Heathcliff remained by herself. 

'In the morning, he sent me to tell her she must come down to breakfast: she had undressed, and appeared going to sleep, and said she was ill; at which I hardly wondered. I informed Mr. Heathcliff, and he replied, - "Well, let her be till after the funeral; and go up now and then to get her what is needful; and, as soon as she seems better, tell me
Nobody
Joseph and I generally go to chapel on Sundays
Joseph had gone
Now, Mrs. Dean
you happen think your young lady too fine for Mr. Hareton; and happen you're right: but I own I should love well to bring her pride a peg lower. And what will all her learning and her daintiness do for her, now? She's as poor as you or I: poorer, I'll be bound: you're saying, and I'm doing my little all that road
Missis walked in
I've been starved a month and more," she answered, resting on the word as scornful as she could. 'And she got a chair for herself, and placed it at a distance from both of us. Having sat till she was warm, she began to look round, and discovered a number of books on the dresser; she was instantly upon her feet again, stretching to reach them: but they were too high up. Her cousin, after watching her endeavours a while, at last summoned courage to help her; she held her frock, and he filled it with the first that came to hand. 

'That was a great advance for the lad. She didn't thank him; still, he felt gratified that she had accepted his assistance, and ventured to stand behind as she examined them, and even to stoop and point out what struck his fancy in certain old pictures which they contained; nor was he daunted by the saucy style in which she jerked the page from his finger: he contented himself with going a bit farther back and looking at her instead of the book. She continued reading, or seeking for something to read. His attention became, by degrees, quite centred in the study of her thick silky curls: her face he couldn't see, and she couldn't see him. And, perhaps, not quite awake to what he did, but attracted like a child to a candle, at last he proceeded from staring to touching; he put out his hand and stroked one curl, as gently as if it were a bird. He might have stuck a knife into her neck, she started round in such a taking. 

' "Get away this moment! How dare you touch me? Why are you stopping there?" she cried, in a tone of disgust. "I can't endure you! I'll go upstairs again, if you come near me." 

'Mr. Hareton recoiled, looking as foolish as he could do: he sat down in the settle very quiet, and she continued turning over her volumes another half hour; finally, Earnshaw crossed over, and whispered to me. 

'Will you ask her to read to us, Zillah? I'm stalled of doing naught; and I do like - I could like to hear her! Dunnot say I wanted it, but ask of yourseln." 

' "Mr. Hareton wishes you would read to us, ma'am," I said, immediately. "He'd take it very kind - he'd be much obliged." 

'She frowned; and looking up, answered - 

' "Mr. Hareton, and the whole set of you, will be good enough to understand that I reject any pretence at kindness you have the hypocrisy to offer! I despise you, and will have nothing to say to any of you! When I would have given my life for one kind word, even to see one of your faces, you all kept off. But I won't complain to you! I'm driven down here by the cold; not either to amuse you or enjoy your society." 

' "What could I ha' done?" began Earnshaw. "How was I to blame?" 

' "Oh! you are an exception," answered Mrs. Heathcliff. "I never missed such a concern as you." 

' "But I offered more than once, and asked," he said, kindling up at her pertness, "I asked Mr. Heathcliff to let me wake for you - " 

' "Be silent! I'll go out of doors, or anywhere, rather than have your disagreeable voice in my ear!" said my lady. 

'Hareton muttered she might go to hell, for him! and unslinging his gun, restrained himself from his Sunday occupations no longer. He talked now, freely enough; and she presently saw fit to retreat to her solitude: but the frost had set in, and, in spite of her pride, she was forced to condescend to our company, more and more. However, I took care there should be no further scorning at my good nature: ever since, I've been as stiff as herself; and she has no lover or liker among us: and she does not deserve one; for, let them say the least word to her, and she'll curl back without respect of any one. She'll snap at the master himself, and as good as dares him to thrash her; and the more hurt she gets, the more venomous she grows
She does not seem so amiable
as Mrs. Dean would persuade me to believe. She's a beauty, it is true; but not an angel
Remove them yourself
What is that
A letter from your old acquaintance, the housekeeper at the Grange
I should like to be riding Minny down there! I should like to be climbing up there! Oh! I'm tired - I'm STALLED, Hareton
Mrs. Heathcliff
you are not aware that I am an acquaintance of yours? so intimate that I think it strange you won't come and speak to me. My housekeeper never wearies of talking about and praising you; and she'll be greatly disappointed if I return with no news of or from you, except that you received her letter and said nothing
Does Ellen like you
Yes, very well
You must tell her
that I would answer her letter, but I have no materials for writing: not even a book from which I might tear a leaf
No books
How do you contrive to live here without them? if I may take the liberty to inquire. Though provided with a large library, I'm frequently very dull at the Grange; take my books away, and I should be desperate
I was always reading, when I had them
and Mr. Heathcliff never reads; so he took it into his head to destroy my books. I have not had a glimpse of one for weeks. Only once, I searched through Joseph's store of theology, to his great irritation; and once, Hareton, I came upon a secret stock in your room - some Latin and Greek, and some tales and poetry: all old friends. I brought the last here - and you gathered them, as a magpie gathers silver spoons, for the mere love of stealing! They are of no use to you; or else you concealed them in the bad spirit that, as you cannot enjoy them, nobody else shall. Perhaps YOUR envy counselled Mr. Heathcliff to rob me of my treasures? But I've most of them written on my brain and printed in my heart, and you cannot deprive me of those
Mr. Hareton is desirous of increasing his amount of knowledge
He is not ENVIOUS, but EMULOUS of your attainments. He'll be a clever scholar in a few years
And he wants me to sink into a dunce, meantime
Yes, I hear him trying to spell and read to himself, and pretty blunders he makes! I wish you would repeat Chevy Chase as you did yesterday: it was extremely funny. I heard you; and I heard you turning over the dictionary to seek out the hard words, and then cursing because you couldn't read their explanations
But, Mrs. Heathcliff, we have each had a commencement, and each stumbled and tottered on the threshold; had our teachers scorned instead of aiding us, we should stumble and totter yet
Oh
I don't wish to limit his acquirements: still, he has no right to appropriate what is mine, and make it ridiculous to me with his vile mistakes and mispronunciations! Those books, both prose and verse, are consecrated to me by other associations; and I hate to have them debased and profaned in his mouth! Besides, of all, he has selected my favourite pieces that I love the most to repeat, as if out of deliberate malice
Take them! I never want to hear, or read, or think of them again
I won't have them now
I shall connect them with you, and hate them
And listen
Yes that's all the good that such a brute as you can get from them
You'd BETTER hold your tongue, now
What's to do now, my lad
Naught, naught
It will be odd if I thwart myself
But when I look for his father in his face, I find HER every day more! How the devil is he so like? I can hardly bear to see him
I'm glad to see you out of doors again, Mr. Lockwood
from selfish motives partly: I don't think I could readily supply your loss in this desolation. I've wondered more than once what brought you here
An idle whim, I fear, sir
or else an idle whim is going to spirit me away. I shall set out for London next week; and I must give you warning that I feel no disposition to retain Thrushcross Grange beyond the twelve months I agreed to rent it. I believe I shall not live there any more
Oh, indeed; you're tired of being banished from the world, are you
But if you be coming to plead off paying for a place you won't occupy, your journey is useless: I never relent in exacting my due from any one
I'm coming to plead off nothing about it
Should you wish it, I'll settle with you now
No, no
you'll leave sufficient behind to cover your debts, if you fail to return: I'm not in such a hurry. Sit down and take your dinner with us; a guest that is safe from repeating his visit can generally be made welcome. Catherine bring the things in: where are you
You may get your dinner with Joseph
and remain in the kitchen till he is gone
How dreary life gets over in that house
What a realisation of something more romantic than a fairy tale it would have been for Mrs. Linton Heathcliff, had she and I struck up an attachment, as her good nurse desired, and migrated together into the stirring atmosphere of the town
Yon's frough Gimmerton, nah! They're allas three wick' after other folk wi' ther harvest
Gimmerton
Ah! I know. How far is it from this
Happen fourteen mile o'er th' hills; and a rough road
Is Mrs. Dean within
Mistress Dean? Nay
she doesn't bide here: shoo's up at th' Heights
Are you the housekeeper, then
Eea, aw keep th' hause
Well, I'm Mr. Lockwood, the master. Are there any rooms to lodge me in, I wonder? I wish to stay all night
T' maister
Whet, whoiver knew yah wur coming? Yah sud ha' send word. They's nowt norther dry nor mensful abaht t' place: nowt there isn't
All well at the Heights
Eea, f'r owt ee knaw
Con-TRARY
That for the third time, you dunce! I'm not going to tell you again. Recollect, or I'll pull your hair
Contrary, then
And now, kiss me, for minding so well
No, read it over first correctly, without a single mistake
It's a blazing shame, that I cannot oppen t' blessed Book, but yah set up them glories to sattan, and all t' flaysome wickednesses that iver were born into th' warld! Oh! ye're a raight nowt; and shoo's another; and that poor lad 'll be lost atween ye. Poor lad
he's witched: I'm sartin on't. Oh, Lord, judge 'em, for there's norther law nor justice among wer rullers
No! or we should be sitting in flaming fagots, I suppose
But wisht, old man, and read your Bible like a Christian, and never mind me. This is "Fairy Annie's Wedding" - a bonny tune - it goes to a dance
Why, bless you, Mr. Lockwood! How could you think of returning in this way? All's shut up at Thrushcross Grange. You should have given us notice
I've arranged to be accommodated there, for as long as I shall stay
I depart again to-morrow. And how are you transplanted here, Mrs. Dean? tell me that
Zillah left, and Mr. Heathcliff wished me to come, soon after you went to London, and stay till you returned. But, step in, pray! Have you walked from Gimmerton this evening
From the Grange
and while they make me lodging room there, I want to finish my business with your master; because I don't think of having another opportunity in a hurry
What business, sir
He's gone out at present, and won't return soon
About the rent
Oh! then it is with Mrs. Heathcliff you must settle
or rather with me. She has not learnt to manage her affairs yet, and I act for her: there's nobody else
Ah! you have not heard of Heathcliff's death, I see
Heathcliff dead
How long ago
Three months since: but sit down, and let me take your hat, and I'll tell you all about it. Stop, you have had nothing to eat, have you
I want nothing: I have ordered supper at home. You sit down too. I never dreamt of his dying! Let me hear how it came to pass. You say you don't expect them back for some time - the young people
No - I have to scold them every evening for their late rambles: but they don't care for me. At least, have a drink of our old ale; it will do you good: you seem weary
bide still and see it
He's just like a dog, is he not, Ellen
or a cart-horse? He does his work, eats his food, and sleeps eternally! What a blank, dreary mind he must have! Do you ever dream, Hareton? And, if you do, what is it about? But you can't speak to me
He's, perhaps, dreaming now
He twitched his shoulder as Juno twitches hers. Ask him, Ellen
Mr. Hareton will ask the master to send you up-stairs, if you don't behave
I know why Hareton never speaks, when I am in the kitchen
He is afraid I shall laugh at him. Ellen, what do you think? He began to teach himself to read once; and, because I laughed, he burned his books, and dropped it: was he not a fool
Were not you naughty
answer me that
Perhaps I was
but I did not expect him to be so silly. Hareton, if I gave you a book, would you take it now? I'll try
Well, I shall put it here
in the table-drawer; and I'm going to bed
I've found out, Hareton, that I want - that I'm glad - that I should like you to be my cousin now, if you had not grown so cross to me, and so rough
Hareton, Hareton, Hareton! do you hear
Get off wi' ye
Let me take that pipe
Stop
you must listen to me first; and I can't speak while those clouds are floating in my face
Will you go to the devil
and let me be
No
I won't: I can't tell what to do to make you talk to me; and you are determined not to understand. When I call you stupid, I don't mean anything: I don't mean that I despise you. Come, you shall take notice of me, Hareton: you are my cousin, and you shall own me
I shall have naught to do wi' you and your mucky pride, and your damned mocking tricks
I'll go to hell, body and soul, before I look sideways after you again. Side out o' t' gate, now, this minute
You should be friends with your cousin, Mr. Hareton
since she repents of her sauciness. It would do you a great deal of good: it would make you another man to have her for a companion
A companion
when she hates me, and does not think me fit to wipe her shoon! Nay, if it made me a king, I'd not be scorned for seeking her good-will any more
It is not I who hate you, it is you who hate me
You hate me as much as Mr. Heathcliff does, and more
You're a damned liar
why have I made him angry, by taking your part, then, a hundred times? and that when you sneered at and despised me, and - Go on plaguing me, and I'll step in yonder, and say you worried me out of the kitchen
I didn't know you took my part
and I was miserable and bitter at everybody; but now I thank you, and beg you to forgive me: what can I do besides
Well! what should I have done, Ellen? He wouldn't shake hands, and he wouldn't look: I must show him some way that I like him - that I want to be friends
Mr. Hareton Earnshaw
And tell him, if he'll take it, I'll come and teach him to read it right
and, if he refuse it, I'll go upstairs, and never tease him again
Say you forgive me, Hareton, do. You can make me so happy by speaking that little word
And you'll be my friend
Nay, you'll be ashamed of me every day of your life
and the more ashamed, the more you know me; and I cannot bide it
So you won't be my friend
Tak' these in to t' maister, lad
and bide there. I's gang up to my own rahm. This hoile's neither mensful nor seemly for us: we mun side out and seearch another
Come, Catherine
we must "side out" too: I've done my ironing. Are you ready to go
It is not eight o'clock!' she answered, rising unwillingly. 'Hareton, I'll leave this book upon the chimney-piece, and I'll bring some more to-morrow
Ony books that yah leave, I shall tak' into th' hahse
and it'll be mitch if yah find 'em agean; soa, yah may plase yerseln
There! That will be all shown to the master
the minute it is discovered. And what excuse have you to offer for taking such liberties with the garden? We shall have a fine explosion on the head of it: see if we don't! Mr. Hareton, I wonder you should have no more wit than to go and make that mess at her bidding
I'd forgotten they were Joseph's
but I'll tell him I did it
Now, mind you don't talk with and notice your cousin too much
It will certainly annoy Mr. Heathcliff, and he'll be mad at you both
I'm not going to
It is well you are out of my reach
What fiend possesses you to stare back at me, continually, with those infernal eyes? Down with them! and don't remind me of your existence again. I thought I had cured you of laughing
It was me
What do you say
I mun hev' my wage, and I mun goa! I HED aimed to dee wheare I'd sarved fur sixty year; and I thowt I'd lug my books up into t' garret, and all my bits o' stuff, and they sud hev' t' kitchen to theirseln; for t' sake o' quietness. It wur hard to gie up my awn hearthstun, but I thowt I COULD do that! But nah, shoo's taan my garden fro' me, and by th' heart, maister, I cannot stand it! Yah may bend to th' yoak an ye will - I noan used to 't, and an old man doesn't sooin get used to new barthens. I'd rayther arn my bite an' my sup wi' a hammer in th' road
Now, now, idiot
cut it short! What's your grievance? I'll interfere in no quarrels between you and Nelly. She may thrust you into the coal-hole for anything I care
It's noan Nelly
bout winking. It's yon flaysome, graceless quean, that's witched our lad, wi' her bold een and her forrard ways - till - Nay! it fair brusts my heart! He's forgotten all I've done for him, and made on him, and goan and riven up a whole row o' t' grandest currant-trees i' t' garden
Is the fool drunk
Hareton, is it you he's finding fault with
I've pulled up two or three bushes
but I'm going to set 'em again
And why have you pulled them up
We wanted to plant some flowers there
I'm the only person to blame, for I wished him to do it
And who the devil gave YOU leave to touch a stick about the place
And who ordered YOU to obey her
You shouldn't grudge a few yards of earth for me to ornament, when you have taken all my land
Your land, insolent slut! You never had any
And my money
Silence
Get done, and begone
And Hareton's land, and his money
Hareton and I are friends now; and I shall tell him all about you
If you strike me, Hareton will strike you
so you may as well sit down
If Hareton does not turn you out of the room, I'll strike him to hell
Damnable witch! dare you pretend to rouse him against me? Off with her! Do you hear? Fling her into the kitchen! I'll kill her, Ellen Dean, if you let her come into my sight again
Drag her away
Are you staying to talk
He'll not obey you, wicked man, any more
and he'll soon detest you as much as I do
Wisht! wisht
I will not hear you speak so to him. Have done
But you won't let him strike me
Come, then
Now, YOU go
Accursed witch! this time she has provoked me when I could not bear it; and I'll make her repent it for ever
You must learn to avoid putting me in a passion, or I shall really murder you some time! Go with Mrs. Dean, and keep with her; and confine your insolence to her ears. As to Hareton Earnshaw, if I see him listen to you, I'll send him seeking his bread where he can get it! Your love will make him an outcast and a beggar. Nelly, take her; and leave me, all of you! Leave me
It is a poor conclusion, is it not
Nelly, there is a strange change approaching; I'm in its shadow at present. I take so little interest in my daily life that I hardly remember to eat and drink. Those two who have left the room are the only objects which retain a distinct material appearance to me; and that appearance causes me pain, amounting to agony. About HER I won't speak; and I don't desire to think; but I earnestly wish she were invisible: her presence invokes only maddening sensations. HE moves me differently: and yet if I could do it without seeming insane, I'd never see him again! You'll perhaps think me rather inclined to become so
Five minutes ago Hareton seemed a personification of my youth, not a human being; I felt to him in such a variety of ways, that it would have been impossible to have accosted him rationally. In the first place, his startling likeness to Catherine connected him fearfully with her. That, however, which you may suppose the most potent to arrest my imagination, is actually the least: for what is not connected with her to me? and what does not recall her? I cannot look down to this floor, but her features are shaped in the flags! In every cloud, in every tree - filling the air at night, and caught by glimpses in every object by day - I am surrounded with her image! The most ordinary faces of men and women - my own features - mock me with a resemblance. The entire world is a dreadful collection of memoranda that she did exist, and that I have lost her! Well, Hareton's aspect was the ghost of my immortal love; of my wild endeavours to hold my right; my degradation, my pride, my happiness, and my anguish - 'But it is frenzy to repeat these thoughts to you: only it will let you know why, with a reluctance to be always alone, his society is no benefit; rather an aggravation of the constant torment I suffer: and it partly contributes to render me regardless how he and his cousin go on together. I can give them no attention any more
But what do you mean by a CHANGE, Mr. Heathcliff
I shall not know that till it comes
I'm only half conscious of it now
You have no feeling of illness, have you
No, Nelly, I have not
Then you are not afraid of death
Afraid? No
I have neither a fear, nor a presentiment, nor a hope of death. Why should I? With my hard constitution and temperate mode of living, and unperilous occupations, I ought to, and probably SHALL, remain above ground till there is scarcely a black hair on my head. And yet I cannot continue in this condition! I have to remind myself to breathe - almost to remind my heart to beat! And it is like bending back a stiff spring: it is by compulsion that I do the slightest act not prompted by one thought; and by compulsion that I notice anything alive or dead, which is not associated with one universal idea. I have a single wish, and my whole being and faculties are yearning to attain it. They have yearned towards it so long, and so unwaveringly, that I'm convinced it will be reached - and soon - because it has devoured my existence: I am swallowed up in the anticipation of its fulfilment. My confessions have not relieved me; but they may account for some otherwise unaccountable phases of humour which I show. O God! It is a long fight; I wish it were over
And he spoke to me
What did he say
He told me to begone as fast as I could
But he looked so different from his usual look that I stopped a moment to stare at him
How
Why, almost bright and cheerful. No, ALMOST nothing - VERY MUCH excited, and wild, and glad
Night-walking amuses him, then
Will you have some breakfast
You must be hungry, rambling about all night
No, I'm not hungry
I don't think it right to wander out of doors
instead of being in bed: it is not wise, at any rate this moist season. I daresay you'll catch a bad cold or a fever: you have something the matter with you now
Nothing but what I can bear
and with the greatest pleasure, provided you'll leave me alone: get in, and don't annoy me
Yes
we shall have a fit of illness. I cannot conceive what he has been doing
I've neither cold nor fever, Nelly
and I'm ready to do justice to the food you give me
Well, is he coming
Nay
but he's not angry: he seemed rarely pleased indeed; only I made him impatient by speaking to him twice; and then he bid me be off to you: he wondered how I could want the company of anybody else
Have you heard any good news, Mr. Heathcliff? You look uncommonly animated
Where should good news come from to me
I'm animated with hunger; and, seemingly, I must not eat
Your dinner is here
why won't you get it
I don't want it now
I'll wait till supper. And, Nelly, once for all, let me beg you to warn Hareton and the other away from me. I wish to be troubled by nobody: I wish to have this place to myself
Is there some new reason for this banishment
You are putting the question through very idle curiosity
Yet I'll answer it. Last night I was on the threshold of hell. To-day, I am within sight of my heaven. I have my eyes on it: hardly three feet to sever me! And now you'd better go! You'll neither see nor hear anything to frighten you, if you refrain from prying
Must I close this
Yes, close it
There, that is pure awkwardness! Why did you hold the candle horizontally? Be quick, and bring another
The master wishes you to take him a light and rekindle the fire
Is he a ghoul or a vampire
But where did he come from, the little dark thing, harboured by a good man to his bane
Heathcliff
He has stayed at home
and he'll be all right to-day
Come now
eat and drink that, while it is hot: it has been waiting near an hour
Mr. Heathcliff! master
don't, for God's sake, stare as if you saw an unearthly vision
Don't, for God's sake, shout so loud
Turn round, and tell me, are we by ourselves
Of course
of course we are
Nelly, come here - is it morning? Come in with your light
It is striking four
You want a candle to take up- stairs: you might have lit one at this fire
No, I don't wish to go up-stairs
Come in, and kindle ME a fire, and do anything there is to do about the room
I must blow the coals red first, before I can carry any
When day breaks I'll send for Green
I wish to make some legal inquiries of him while I can bestow a thought on those matters, and while I can act calmly. I have not written my will yet; and how to leave my property I cannot determine. I wish I could annihilate it from the face of the earth
I would not talk so, Mr. Heathcliff
Let your will be a while: you'll be spared to repent of your many injustices yet! I never expected that your nerves would be disordered: they are, at present, marvellously so, however; and almost entirely through your own fault. The way you've passed these three last days might knock up a Titan. Do take some food, and some repose. You need only look at yourself in a glass to see how you require both. Your cheeks are hollow, and your eyes blood- shot, like a person starving with hunger and going blind with loss of sleep
It is not my fault that I cannot eat or rest
I assure you it is through no settled designs. I'll do both, as soon as I possibly can. But you might as well bid a man struggling in the water rest within arms' length of the shore! I must reach it first, and then I'll rest. Well, never mind Mr. Green: as to repenting of my injustices, I've done no injustice, and I repent of nothing. I'm too happy; and yet I'm not happy enough. My soul's bliss kills my body, but does not satisfy itself
Happy, master
Strange happiness! If you would hear me without being angry, I might offer some advice that would make you happier
What is that
Give it
You are aware, Mr. Heathcliff
that from the time you were thirteen years old you have lived a selfish, unchristian life; and probably hardly had a Bible in your hands during all that period. You must have forgotten the contents of the book, and you may not have space to search it now. Could it be hurtful to send for some one - some minister of any denomination, it does not matter which - to explain it, and show you how very far you have erred from its precepts; and how unfit you will be for its heaven, unless a change takes place before you die
I'm rather obliged than angry, Nelly
for you remind me of the manner in which I desire to be buried. It is to be carried to the churchyard in the evening. You and Hareton may, if you please, accompany me: and mind, particularly, to notice that the sexton obeys my directions concerning the two coffins! No minister need come; nor need anything be said over me. - I tell you I have nearly attained MY heaven; and that of others is altogether unvalued and uncovered by me
And supposing you persevered in your obstinate fast, and died by that means, and they refused to bury you in the precincts of the kirk
How would you like it
They won't do that
if they did, you must have me removed secretly; and if you neglect it you shall prove, practically, that the dead are not annihilated
I believe you think me a fiend
something too horrible to live under a decent roof
Will YOU come, chuck? I'll not hurt you. No! to you I've made myself worse than the devil. Well, there is ONE who won't shrink from my company! By God! she's relentless. Oh, damn it! It's unutterably too much for flesh and blood to bear - even mine
Th' divil's harried off his soul
un he looks, girning at death
What is the matter, my little man
There's Heathcliff and a woman yonder, under t' nab
un' I darnut pass 'em
They are going to the Grange, then
Yes
as soon as they are married, and that will be on New Year's Day
And who will live here then
Why, Joseph will take care of the house, and, perhaps, a lad to keep him company. They will live in the kitchen, and the rest will be shut up
For the use of such ghosts as choose to inhabit it
No, Mr. Lockwood
I believe the dead are at peace: but it is not right to speak of them with levity
THEY are afraid of nothing
Together, they would brave Satan and all his legions
</text>
