<text>
I don't know what would have happened, Walter
if you had delayed much longer. Pesca has been half mad with impatience, and I have been half mad with curiosity. The Professor has brought some wonderful news with him, in which he says you are concerned; and he has cruelly refused to give us the smallest hint of it till his friend Walter appeared
Very provoking: it spoils the Set
Now, my good dears
listen to me. The time has come -- I recite my good news -- I speak at last
Hear, hear
The next thing he will break, mamma
will be the back of the best arm-chair
I go back into my life, and I address myself to the noblest of created beings
Who found me dead at the bottom of the sea (through Cramp); and who pulled me up to the top; and what did I say when I got into my own life and my own clothes again
Much more than was at all necessary
I said
that my life belonged to my dear friend, Walter, for the rest of my days -- and so it does. I said that I should never be happy again till I had found the opportunity of doing a good Something for Walter -- and I have never been contented with myself till this most blessed day. Now
the overflowing happiness bursts out of me at every pore of my skin, like a perspiration; for on my faith, and soul, and honour, the something is done at last, and the only word to say now is -- Right- all-right
Among the fine London Houses where I teach the language of my native country
there is one, mighty fine, in the big place called Portland. You all know where that is? Yes, yes -- course-of-course. The fine house, my good dears, has got inside it a fine family. A Mamma, fair and fat; three young Misses, fair and fat; two young Misters, fair and fat; and a Papa, the fairest and the fattest of all, who is a mighty merchant, up to his eyes in gold -- a fine man once, but seeing that he has got a naked head and two chins, fine no longer at the present time. Now mind! I teach the sublime Dante to the young Misses, and ah!-- my-soul-bless-my-soul!-- it is not in human language to say how the sublime Dante puzzles the pretty heads of all three! No matter -- all in good time -- and the more lessons the better for me. Now mind! Imagine to yourselves that I am teaching the young Misses to-day, as usual. We are all four of us down together in the Hell of Dante. At the Seventh Circle -- but no matter for that: all the Circles are alike to the three young Misses, fair and fat,-- at the Seventh Circle, nevertheless, my pupils are sticking fast; and I, to set them going again, recite, explain, and blow myself up red-hot with useless enthusiasm, when -- a creak of boots in the passage outside, and in comes the golden Papa, the mighty merchant with the naked head and the two chins.-- Ha! my good dears, I am closer than you think for to the business, now. Have you been patient so far? or have you said to yourselves, 'Deuce-what-the-deuce! Pesca is long-winded to-night
O, dear no, Papa! But here is Mr. Pesca' At the mention of myself I can hold no longer -- the thought of you, my good dears, mounts like blood to my head -- I start from my seat, as if a spike had grown up from the ground through the bottom of my chair -- I address myself to the mighty merchant, and I say (English phrase) 'Dear sir, I have the man! The first and foremost drawing-master of the world! Recommend him by the post to-night, and send him off, bag and baggage (English phrase again -- ha!), send him off, bag and baggage, by the train to-morrow!' 'Stop, stop,' says Papa; 'is he a foreigner, or an Englishman?' 'English to the bone of his back,' I answer. 'Respectable?' says Papa. 'Sir,' I say (for this last question of his outrages me, and I have done being familiar with him --) 'Sir! the immortal fire of genius burns in this Englishman's bosom, and, what is more, his father had it before him!' 'Never mind,' says the golden barbarian of a Papa, 'never mind about his genius, Mr. Pesca. We don't want genius in this country, unless it is accompanied by respectability -- and then we are very glad to have it, very glad indeed. Can your friend produce testimonials -- letters that speak to his character?' I wave my hand negligently. 'Letters?' I say. 'Ha! my-soul-bless-my-soul! I should think so, indeed! Volumes of letters and portfolios of testimonials, if you like!' 'One or two will do,' says this man of phlegm and money. 'Let him send them to me, with his name and address. And -- stop, stop, Mr. Pesca -- before you go to your friend, you had better take a note.' 'Bank-note!' I say, indignantly. 'No bank-note, if you please, till my brave Englishman has earned it first.' 'Bank- note!' says Papa, in a great surprise, 'who talked of bank-note? I mean a note of the terms -- a memorandum of what he is expected to do. Go on with your lesson, Mr. Pesca, and I will give you the necessary extract from my friend's letter.' Down sits the man of merchandise and money to his pen, ink, and paper; and down I go once again into the Hell of Dante, with my three young Misses after me. In ten minutes' time the note is written, and the boots of Papa are creaking themselves away in the passage outside. From that moment, on my faith, and soul, and honour, I know nothing more! The glorious thought that I have caught my opportunity at last, and that my grateful service for my dearest friend in the world is as good as done already, flies up into my head and makes me drunk. How I pull my young Misses and myself out of our Infernal Region again, how my other business is done afterwards, how my little bit of dinner slides itself down my throat, I know no more than a man in the moon. Enough for me, that here I am, with the mighty merchant's note in my hand, as large as life, as hot as fire, and as happy as a king! Ha! ha! ha! right-right- right-all-right
My dear, good Pesca
I never doubted your true affection for Walter -- but I am more than ever persuaded of it now
I am sure we are very much obliged to Professor Pesca, for Walter's sake
If the familiar little man treats my mother in that way, how will he treat ME
Read
I promise you my friend, the writing of the golden Papa speaks with a tongue of trumpets for itself
Oh, Walter, your father never had such a chance as this
Such distinguished people to know
and on such gratifying terms of equality too
Yes, yes; the terms, in every sense, are tempting enough
But before I send in my testimonials, I should like a little time to consider
Consider
Why, Walter, what is the matter with you
Consider
What a very extraordinary thing to say, under the circumstances
Consider
What is there to consider about? Answer me this! Have you not been complaining of your health, and have you not been longing for what you call a smack of the country breeze? Well! there in your hand is the paper that offers you perpetual choking mouthfuls of country breeze for four months' time. Is it not so? Ha! Again -- you want money. Well! Is four golden guineas a week nothing? My-soul-bless-my-soul! only give it to me -- and my boots shall creak like the golden Papa's, with a sense of the overpowering richness of the man who walks in them! Four guineas a week, and, more than that, the charming society of two young misses! and, more than that, your bed, your breakfast, your dinner, your gorging English teas and lunches and drinks of foaming beer, all for nothing -- why, Walter, my dear good friend -- deuce-what-the-deuce!-- for the first time in my life I have not eyes enough in my head to look, and wonder at you
A secret, Walter
I am flushed by the recollection of my own eloquence. My soul bursts itself with ambition. One of these days I go into your noble Parliament. It is the dream of my whole life to be Honourable Pesca, M.P
I shall dry my tears in your absence
with this glorious thought. It is my auspicious hand that has given the first push to your fortune in the world. Go, my friend! When your sun shines in Cumberland (English proverb), in the name of heaven make your hay. Marry one of the two young Misses; become Honourable Hartright, M.P.; and when you are on the top of the ladder remember that Pesca, at the bottom, has done it all
Is that the road to London
Did you hear me
I asked if that was the way to London
Yes
that is the way: it leads to St. John's Wood and the Regent's Park. You must excuse my not answering you before. I was rather startled by your sudden appearance in the road; and I am, even now, quite unable to account for it
You don't suspect me of doing anything wrong, do you? have done nothing wrong. I have met with an accident -- I am very unfortunate in being here alone so late. Why do you suspect me of doing wrong
Pray don't suppose that I have any idea of suspecting you
or any other wish than to be of assistance to you, if I can. I only wondered at your appearance in the road, because it seemed to me to be empty the instant before I saw you
I heard you coming
and hid there to see what sort of man you were, before I risked speaking. I doubted and feared about it till you passed; and then I was obliged to steal after you, and touch you
May I trust you
You don't think the worse of me because I have met with an accident
You may trust me for any harmless purpose
If it troubles you to explain your strange situation to me, don't think of returning to the subject again. I have no right to ask you for any explanations. Tell me how I can help you; and if I can, I will
You are very kind, and I am very, very thankful to have met you
I have only been in London once before
and I know nothing about that side of it, yonder. Can I get a fly, or a carriage of any kind? Is it too late? I don't know. If you could show me where to get a fly -- and if you will only promise not to interfere with me, and to let me leave you, when and how I please -- I have a friend in London who will be glad to receive me -- I want nothing else -- will you promise
Will you promise
Are you sure that your friend in London will receive you at such a late hour as this
Quite sure. Only say you will let me leave you when and how I please -- only say you won't interfere with me. Will you promise
Will you promise
Yes
I want to ask you something
Do you know many people in London
Yes, a great many
Many men of rank and title
Some
Many
many men of the rank of Baronet
Why do you ask
Because I hope, for my own sake, there is one Baronet that you don't know
Will you tell me his name
I can't -- I daren't -- I forget myself when I mention it
Tell me which of them YOU know
Ah! you DON'T know him
Are you a man of rank and title yourself
Far from it. I am only a drawing-master
Not a man of rank and title
Thank God! I may trust HIM
I am afraid you have serious reason to complain of some man of rank and title
I am afraid the baronet, whose name you are unwilling to mention to me, has done you some grievous wrong? Is he the cause of your being out here at this strange time of night
Don't ask me: don't make me talk of it
I'm not fit now. I have been cruelly used and cruelly wronged. You will be kinder than ever, if you will walk on fast, and not speak to me. I sadly want to quiet myself, if I can
Do you live in London
Yes
But to-morrow I shall be away from London for some time. I am going into the country
Where
North or south
North -- to Cumberland
Cumberland
Ah! wish I was going there too. I was once happy in Cumberland
Perhaps you were born
in the beautiful Lake country
No
I was born in Hampshire; but I once went to school for a little while in Cumberland. Lakes? I don't remember any lakes. It's Limmeridge village, and Limmeridge House, I should like to see again
Did you hear anybody calling after us
No, no. I was only struck by the name of Limmeridge House. I heard it mentioned by some Cumberland people a few days since
Ah! not my people. Mrs. Fairlie is dead; and her husband is dead; and their little girl may be married and gone away by this time. I can't say who lives at Limmeridge now. If any more are left there of that name, I only know I love them for Mrs. Fairlie's sake
Is the turnpike man looking out
This is London
Do you see any carriage I can get? I am tired and frightened. I want to shut myself in and be driven away
It's so late
I am only in a hurry because it's so late
I can't take you, sir, if you're not going towards Tottenham Court Road
My horse is dead beat, and I can't get him no further than the stable
Yes, yes. That will do for me. I'm going that way -- I'm going that way
No, no, no
I'm quite safe, and quite happy now. If you are a gentleman, remember your promise. Let him drive on till I stop him. Thank you -- oh! thank you, thank you
Stop
There's a policeman. Let's ask him
Policeman
Have you seen a woman pass this way
What sort of woman, sir
A woman in a lavender-coloured gown
No, no
The clothes we gave her were found on her bed. She must have gone away in the clothes she wore when she came to us. In white, policeman. A woman in white
I haven't seen her, sir
If you or any of your men meet with the woman, stop her, and send her in careful keeping to that address. I'll pay all expenses, and a fair reward into the bargain
Why are we to stop her, sir? What has she done
Done! She has escaped from my Asylum. Don't forget; a woman in white. Drive on
She has escaped from my Asylum
Breakfast at nine o'clock, sir
What shall I see in my dreams to-night
the woman in white? or the unknown inhabitants of this Cumberland mansion
Mr. Hartright
We resigned all hope of you last night, and went to bed as usual. Accept my apologies for our apparent want of attention; and allow me to introduce myself as one of your pupils. Shall we shake hands? I suppose we must come to it sooner or later -- and why not sooner
I hope you come here good-humouredly determined to make the best of your position
You will have to begin this morning by putting up with no other company at breakfast than mine. My sister is in her own room, nursing that essentially feminine malady, a slight headache; and her old governness, Mrs. Vesey, is charitably attending on her with restorative tea. My uncle, Mr. Fairlie, never joins us at any of our meals: he is an invalid, and keeps bachelor state in his own apartments. There is nobody else in the house but me. Two young ladies have been staying here, but they went away yesterday, in despair; and no wonder. All through their visit (in consequence of Mr. Fairlie's invalid condition) we produced no such convenience in the house as a flirtable, danceable, small-talkable creature of the male sex; and the consequence was, we did nothing but quarrel, especially at dinner-time. How can you expect four women to dine together alone every day, and not quarrel? We are such fools, we can't entertain each other at table. You see I don't think much of my own sex, Mr. Hartright -- which will you have, tea or coffee?-- no woman does think much of her own sex, although few of them confess it as freely as I do. Dear me, you look puzzled. Why? Are you wondering what you will have for breakfast? or are you surprised at my careless way of talking? In the first case, I advise you, as a friend, to have nothing to do with that cold ham at your elbow, and to wait till the omelette comes in. In the second case, I will give you some tea to compose your spirits, and do all a woman can (which is very little, by-the-bye) to hold my tongue
Yes, yes
I understand. You are such a perfect stranger in the house, that you are puzzled by my familiar references to the worthy inhabitants. Natural enough: I ought to have thought of it before. At any rate, I can set it right now. Suppose I begin with myself, so as to get done with that part of the subject as soon as possible? My name is Marian Halcombe; and I am as inaccurate as women usually are, in calling Mr. Fairlie my uncle, and Miss Fairlie my sister. My mother was twice married: the first time to Mr. Halcombe, my father; the second time to Mr. Fairlie, my half-sister's father. Except that we are both orphans, we are in every respect as unlike each other as possible. My father was a poor man, and Miss Fairlie's father was a rich man. I have got nothing, and she has a fortune. I am dark and ugly, and she is fair and pretty. Everybody thinks me crabbed and odd (with perfect justice); and everybody thinks her sweet-tempered and charming (with more justice still). In short, she is an angel; and I am ---- Try some of that marmalade, Mr. Hartright, and finish the sentence, in the name of female propriety, for yourself. What am I to tell you about Mr. Fairlie? Upon my honour, I hardly know. He is sure to send for you after breakfast, and you can study him for yourself. In the meantime, I may inform you, first, that he is the late Mr. Fairlie's younger brother; secondly, that he is a single man; and thirdly, that he is Miss Fairlie's guardian. I won't live without her, and she can't live without me; and that is how I come to be at Limmeridge House. My sister and I are honestly fond of each other; which, you will say, is perfectly unaccountable, under the circumstances, and I quite agree with you -- but so it is. You must please both of us, Mr. Hartright, or please neither of us: and, what is still more trying, you will be thrown entirely upon our society. Mrs. Vesey is an excellent person, who possesses all the cardinal virtues, and counts for nothing; and Mr. Fairlie is too great an invalid to be a companion for anybody. I don't know what is the matter with him, and the doctors don't know what is the matter with him, and he doesn't know himself what is the matter with him. We all say it's on the nerves, and we none of us know what we mean when we say it. However, I advise you to humour his little peculiarities, when you see him to-day. Admire his collection of coins, prints, and water-colour drawings, and you will win his heart. Upon my word, if you can be contented with a quiet country life, I don't see why you should not get on very well here. From breakfast to lunch, Mr. Fairlie's drawings will occupy you. After lunch, Miss Fairlie and I shoulder our sketch- books, and go out to misrepresent Nature, under your directions. Drawing is her favourite whim, mind, not mine. Women can't draw -- their minds are too flighty, and their eyes are too inattentive. No matter -- my sister likes it; so I waste paint and spoil paper, for her sake, as composedly as any woman in England. As for the evenings, I think we can help you through them. Miss Fairlie plays delightfully. For my own poor part, I don't know one note of music from the other; but I can match you at chess, backgammon, ecarte, and (with the inevitable female drawbacks) even at billiards as well. What do you think of the programme? Can you reconcile yourself to our quiet, regular life? or do you mean to be restless, and secretly thirst for change and adventure, in the humdrum atmosphere of Limmeridge House
adventure
Even if I were the most restless of mankind
I should be in no danger of thirsting after adventures for some time to come. The very night before I arrived at this house, I met with an adventure; and the wonder and excitement of it, I can assure you, Miss Halcombe, will last me for the whole term of my stay in Cumberland, if not for a much longer period
You don't say so, Mr. Hartright! May I hear it
You have a claim to hear it. The chief person in the adventure was a total stranger to me, and may perhaps be a total stranger to you; but she certainly mentioned the name of the late Mrs. Fairlie in terms of the sincerest gratitude and regard
Mentioned my mother's name! You interest me indescribably. Pray go on
Are you quite sure of those words referring to my mother
Quite sure
Whoever she may be, the woman was once at school in the village of Limmeridge, was treated with especial kindness by Mrs. Fairlie, and, in grateful remembrance of that kindness, feels an affectionate interest in all surviving members of the family. She knew that Mrs. Fairlie and her husband were both dead; and she spoke of Miss Fairlie as if they had known each other when they were children
You said, I think, that she denied belonging to this place
Yes, she told me she came from Hampshire
And you entirely failed to find out her name
Entirely
Very strange. I think you were quite justified, Mr. Hartright, in giving the poor creature her liberty, for she seems to have done nothing in your presence to show herself unfit to enjoy it. But I wish you had been a little more resolute about finding out her name. We must really clear up this mystery, in some way. You had better not speak of it yet to Mr. Fairlie, or to my sister. They are both of them, I am certain, quite as ignorant of who the woman is, and of what her past history in connection with us can be, as I am myself. But they are also, in widely different ways, rather nervous and sensitive; and you would only fidget one and alarm the other to no purpose. As for myself, I am all aflame with curiosity, and I devote my whole energies to the business of discovery from this moment. When my mother came here, after her second marriage, she certainly established the village school just as it exists at the present time. But the old teachers are all dead, or gone elsewhere; and no enlightenment is to be hoped for from that quarter. The only other alternative I can think of
Wait in the hall
Mr. Hartright will come out directly. I was about to say
that my sister and I have a large collection of my mother's letters, addressed to my father and to hers. In the absence of any other means of getting information, I will pass the morning in looking over my mother's correspondence with Mr. Fairlie. He was fond of London, and was constantly away from his country home; and she was accustomed, at such times, to write and report to him how things went on at Limmeridge. Her letters are full of references to the school in which she took so strong an interest; and I think it more than likely that I may have discovered something when we meet again. The luncheon hour is two, Mr. Hartright. I shall have the pleasure of introducing you to my sister by that time, and we will occupy the afternoon in driving round the neighbourhood and showing you all our pet points of view. Till two o'clock, then, farewell
I have my master's orders to show you your own sitting-room, sir
and to inquire if you approve of the situation and the light
Mr. Hartright
stump
So glad to possess you at Limmeridge, Mr. Hartright
Pray sit down. And don't trouble yourself to move the chair, please. In the wretched state of my nerves, movement of any kind is exquisitely painful to me. Have you seen your studio? Will it do
I have just come from seeing the room, Mr. Fairlie; and I assure you
Pray excuse me. But could you contrive to speak in a lower key? In the wretched state of my nerves, loud sound of any kind is indescribable torture to me. You will pardon an invalid? I only say to you what the lamentable state of my health obliges me to say to everybody. Yes. And you really like the room
I could wish for nothing prettier and nothing more comfortable
So glad. You will find your position here, Mr. Hartright, properly recognised. There is none of the horrid English barbarity of feeling about the social position of an artist in this house. So much of my early life has been passed abroad, that I have quite cast my insular skin in that respect. I wish I could say the same of the gentry -- detestable word, but I suppose I must use it -- of the gentry in the neighbourhood. They are sad Goths in Art, Mr. Hartright. People, I do assure you, who would have opened their eyes in astonishment, if they had seen Charles the Fifth pick up Titian's brush for him. Do you mind putting this tray of coins back in the cabinet, and giving me the next one to it? In the wretched state of my nerves, exertion of any kind is unspeakably disagreeable to me. Yes. Thank you
A thousand thanks and a thousand excuses. Do you like coins? Yes. So glad we have another taste in common besides our taste for Art. Now, about the pecuniary arrangements between us -- do tell me -- are they satisfactory
Most satisfactory, Mr. Fairlie
So glad. And -- what next? Ah! I remember. Yes. In reference to the consideration which you are good enough to accept for giving me the benefit of your accomplishments in art, my steward will wait on you at the end of the first week, to ascertain your wishes. And -- what next? Curious, is it not? I had a great deal more to say: and I appear to have quite forgotten it. Do you mind touching the bell? In that corner. Yes. Thank you
Louis
I made some entries in my tablettes this morning. Find my tablettes. A thousand pardons, Mr. Hartright, I'm afraid I bore you
Yes. Just so
Louis, take down that portfolio
No. Not the one with the green back -- that contains my Rembrandt etchings, Mr. Hartright. Do you like etchings? Yes? So glad we have another taste in common. The portfolio with the red back, Louis. Don't drop it! You have no idea of the tortures I should suffer, Mr. Hartright, if Louis dropped that portfolio. Is it safe on the chair? Do YOU think it safe, Mr. Hartright? Yes? So glad. Will you oblige me by looking at the drawings, if you really think they are quite safe. Louis, go away. What an ass you are. Don't you see me holding the tablettes? Do you suppose I want to hold them? Then why not relieve me of the tablettes without being told? A thousand pardons, Mr. Hartright; servants are such asses, are they not? Do tell me -- what do you think of the drawings? They have come from a sale in a shocking state -- I thought they smelt of horrid dealers' and brokers' fingers when I looked at them last. CAN you undertake them
The drawings
require careful straining and mounting; and, in my opinion, they are well worth
I beg your pardon
Do you mind my closing my eyes while you speak? Even this light is too much for them. Yes
I was about to say that the drawings are well worth all the time and trouble
I entreat you to excuse me, Mr. Hartright
But surely I hear some horrid children in the garden -- my private garden -- below
I can't say, Mr. Fairlie. I heard nothing myself
Oblige me -- you have been so very good in humouring my poor nerves -- oblige me by lifting up a corner of the blind. Don't let the sun in on me, Mr. Hartright! Have you got the blind up? Yes? Then will you be so very kind as to look into the garden and make quite sure
A thousand thanks. My fancy, I suppose. There are no children, thank Heaven, in the house; but the servants (persons born without nerves) will encourage the children from the village. Such brats -- oh, dear me, such brats! Shall I confess it, Mr. Hartright?-- I sadly want a reform in the construction of children. Nature's only idea seems to be to make them machines for the production of incessant noise. Surely our delightful Raffaello's conception is infinitely preferable
Quite a model family
Such nice round faces, and such nice soft wings, and -- nothing else. No dirty little legs to run about on, and no noisy little lungs to scream with. How immeasurably superior to the existing construction! I will close my eyes again, if you will allow me. And you really can manage the drawings? So glad. Is there anything else to settle? if there is, I think I have forgotten it. Shall we ring for Louis again
The only point, Mr. Fairlie, that remains to be discussed
refers, I think, to the instruction in sketching which I am engaged to communicate to the two young ladies
Ah! just so
I wish I felt strong enough to go into that part of the arrangement -- but I don't. The ladies who profit by your kind services, Mr. Hartright, must settle, and decide, and so on, for themselves. My niece is fond of your charming art. She knows just enough about it to be conscious of her own sad defects. Please take pains with her. Yes. Is there anything else? No. We quite understand each other -- don't we? I have no right to detain you any longer from your delightful pursuit -- have I? So pleasant to have settled everything -- such a sensible relief to have done business. Do you mind ringing for Louis to carry the portfolio to your own room
I will carry it there myself, Mr. Fairlie, if you will allow me
Will you really? Are you strong enough? How nice to be so strong! Are you sure you won't drop it? So glad to possess you at Limmeridge, Mr. Hartright. I am such a sufferer that I hardly dare hope to enjoy much of your society. Would you mind taking great pains not to let the doors bang, and not to drop the portfolio? Thank you. Gently with the curtains, please -- the slightest noise from them goes through me like a knife. Yes. GOOD morning
all the cardinal virtues, and counting for nothing
Now, Mrs. Vesey
what will you have? A cutlet
Yes, dear
What is that opposite Mr. Hartright? Boiled chicken, is it not? I thought you liked boiled chicken better than cutlet, Mrs. Vesey
Yes, dear
Well, but which will you have, to-day? Shall Mr. Hartright give you some chicken? or shall I give you some cutlet
Which you please, dear
Mercy on me! it's a question for your taste, my good lady, not for mine. Suppose you have a little of both? and suppose you begin with the chicken, because Mr. Hartright looks devoured by anxiety to carve for you
If you please, sir
I understand you, Mr. Hartright
you are wondering what has become of your other pupil. She has been downstairs, and has got over her headache; but has not sufficiently recovered her appetite to join us at lunch. If you will put yourself under my charge, I think I can undertake to find her somewhere in the garden
That mysterious adventure of yours
still remains involved in its own appropriate midnight darkness. I have been all the morning looking over my mother's letters, and I have made no discoveries yet. However, don't despair, Mr. Hartright. This is a matter of curiosity; and you have got a woman for your ally. Under such conditions success is certain, sooner or later. The letters are not exhausted. I have three packets still left, and you may confidently rely on my spending the whole evening over them
And how did you get on with Mr. Fairlie
Was he particularly nervous this morning? Never mind considering about your answer, Mr. Hartright. The mere fact of your being obliged to consider is enough for me. I see in your face that he WAS particularly nervous; and, as I am amiably unwilling to throw you into the same condition, I ask no more
Look there, Mr. Hartright
Surely you will acknowledge that your model pupil is found at last? The moment she hears that you are in the house, she seizes her inestimable sketch-book looks universal Nature straight in the face, and longs to begin
I must not take credit to myself where no credit is due
Fond as I am of drawing, I am so conscious of my own ignorance that I am more afraid than anxious to begin. Now I know you are here, Mr. Hartright, I find myself looking over my sketches, as I used to look over my lessons when I was a little girl, and when I was sadly afraid that I should turn out not fit to be heard
Good, bad, or indifferent
the pupil's sketches must pass through the fiery ordeal of the master's judgment -- and there's an end of it. Suppose we take them with us in the carriage, Laura, and let Mr. Hartright see them, for the first time, under circumstances of perpetual jolting and interruption? If we can only confuse him all through the drive, between Nature as it is, when he looks up at the view, and Nature as it is not when he looks down again at our sketch-books, we shall drive him into the last desperate refuge of paying us compliments, and shall slip through his professional fingers with our pet feathers of vanity all unruffled
I hope Mr. Hartright will pay ME no compliments
May I venture to inquire why you express that hope
Because I shall believe all that you say to me
Mr. Hartright
will you come here for a minute? I want to speak to you
I want you to listen while I read the concluding passages in this letter
Tell me if you think they throw any light upon your strange adventure on the road to London. The letter is addressed by my mother to her second husband, Mr. Fairlie, and the date refers to a period of between eleven and twelve years since. At that time Mr. and Mrs. Fairlie, and my half-sister Laura, had been living for years in this house; and I was away from them completing my education at a school in Paris
You will be tired, my dear Philip, of hearing perpetually about my schools and my scholars. Lay the blame, pray, on the dull uniformity of life at Limmeridge, and not on me. Besides, this time I have something really interesting to tell you about a new scholar. "'You know old Mrs. Kempe at the village shop. Well, after years of ailing, the doctor has at last given her up, and she is dying slowly day by day. Her only living relation, a sister, arrived last week to take care of her. This sister comes all the way from Hampshire -- her name is Mrs. Catherick. Four days ago Mrs. Catherick came here to see me, and brought her only child with her, a sweet little girl about a year older than our darling Laura
Mrs. Catherick is a decent, well-behaved, respectable woman; middle-aged, and with the remains of having been moderately, only moderately, nice-looking. There is something in her manner and in her appearance, however, which I can't make out. She is reserved about herself to the point of down-right secrecy, and there is a look in her face -- I can't describe it -- which suggests to me that she has something on her mind. She is altogether what you would call a walking mystery. Her errand at Limmeridge House, however, was simple enough. When she left Hampshire to nurse her sister, Mrs. Kempe, through her last illness, she had been obliged to bring her daughter with her, through having no one at home to take care of the little girl. Mrs. Kempe may die in a week's time, or may linger on for months; and Mrs. Catherick's object was to ask me to let her daughter, Anne, have the benefit of attending my school, subject to the condition of her being removed from it to go home again with her mother, after Mrs. Kempe's death. I consented at once, and when Laura and I went out for our walk, we took the little girl (who is just eleven years old) to the school that very day
I will always wear white as long as I live. It will help me to remember you, ma'am, and to think that I am pleasing you still, when I go away and see you no more
Did the forlorn woman whom you met in the high-road seem young
Young enough to be two- or three-and-twenty
Yes, Miss Halcombe, as young as that
And she was strangely dressed, from head to foot, all in white
All in white
All in white
The most important sentences in the letter, Mr. Hartright, are those at the end, which I will read to you immediately. But I can't help dwelling a little upon the coincidence of the white costume of the woman you met, and the white frocks which produced that strange answer from my mother's little scholar. The doctor may have been wrong when he discovered the child's defects of intellect, and predicted that she would 'grow out of them.' She may never have grown out of them, and the old grateful fancy about dressing in white, which was a serious feeling to the girl, may be a serious feeling to the woman still
Listen to the last sentences of the letter
I think they will surprise you
And now, my love, seeing that I am at the end of my paper, now for the real reason, the surprising reason, for my fondness for little Anne Catherick. My dear Philip, although she is not half so pretty, she is, nevertheless, by one of those extraordinary caprices of accidental resemblance which one sometimes sees, the living likeness, in her hair, her complexion, the colour of her eyes, and the shape of her face
You see it
You see it now, as my mother saw it eleven years since
I see it -- more unwillingly than I can say. To associate that forlorn, friendless, lost woman, even by an accidental likeness only, with Miss Fairlie, seems like casting a shadow on the future of the bright creature who stands looking at us now. Let me lose the impression again as soon as possible. Call her in, out of the dreary moonlight -- pray call her in
Mr. Hartright, you surprise me. Whatever women may be, I thought that men, in the nineteenth century, were above superstition
Pray call her in
Hush, hush! She is coming of her own accord. Say nothing in her presence. Let this discovery of the likeness be kept a secret between you and me. Come in, Laura, come in, and wake Mrs. Vesey with the piano. Mr. Hartright is petitioning for some more music, and he wants it, this time, of the lightest and liveliest kind
I have been detained
by a consultation with Mr. Fairlie on a domestic matter which he wished to speak to me about
I suppose it is the change in the wind
The winter is coming -- ah, my love, the winter is coming soon
I have seen your uncle this morning, Laura
He thinks the purple room is the one that ought to be got ready, and he confirms what I told you. Monday is the day -- not Tuesday
Have you any leisure time to spare
before you begin to work in your own room
Certainly, Miss Halcombe. I have always time at your service
I want to say a word to you in private, Mr. Hartright. Get your hat and come out into the garden. We are not likely to be disturbed there at this hour in the morning
Is that letter for me
Nay, miss; it's just said to be for Miss Fairlie
A strange handwriting
Who can Laura's correspondent be? Where did you get this
Well, miss
I just got it from a woman
What woman
A woman well stricken in age
Oh, an old woman. Any one you knew
I canna' tak' it on mysel' to say that she was other than a stranger to me
Which way did she go
That gate
Curious
I suppose it must be a begging- letter. There
take it to the house, and give it to one of the servants. And now, Mr. Hartright, if you have no objection, let us walk this way
What I have to say to you I can say here
Mr. Hartright
I am going to begin by making a frank avowal to you. I am going to say -- without phrase-making, which I detest, or paying compliments, which I heartily despise -- that I have come, in the course of your residence with us, to feel a strong friendly regard for you. I was predisposed in your favour when you first told me of your conduct towards that unhappy woman whom you met under such remarkable circumstances. Your management of the affair might not have been prudent, but it showed the self- control, the delicacy, and the compassion of a man who was naturally a gentleman. It made me expect good things from you, and you have not disappointed my expectations
As your friend
I am going to tell you, at once, in my own plain, blunt, downright language, that I have discovered your secret -- without help or hint, mind, from any one else. Mr. Hartright, you have thoughtlessly allowed your-self to form an attachment -- a serious and devoted attachment I am afraid -- to my sister Laura. I don't put you to the pain of confessing it in so many words, because I see and know that you are too honest to deny it. I don't even blame you -- I pity you for opening your heart to a hopeless affection. You have not attempted to take any underhand advantage -- you have not spoken to my sister in secret. You are guilty of weakness and want of attention to your own best interests, but of nothing worse. If you had acted, in any single respect, less delicately and less modestly, I should have told you to leave the house without an instant's notice, or an instant's consultation of anybody. As it is, I blame the misfortune of your years and your position -- I don't blame YOU. Shake hands -- I have given you pain; I am going to give you more, but there is no help for it -- shake hands with your friend, Marian Halcombe, first
Listen to me
Listen to me, and let us get it over at once. It is a real true relief to me that I am not obliged, in what I have now to say, to enter into the question -- the hard and cruel question as I think it -- of social inequalities. Circumstances which will try you to the quick, spare me the ungracious necessity of paining a man who has lived in friendly intimacy under the same roof with myself by any humiliating reference to matters of rank and station. You must leave Limmeridge House, Mr. Hartright, before more harm is done. It is my duty to say that to you; and it would be equally my duty to say it, under precisely the same serious necessity, if you were the representative of the oldest and wealthiest family in England. You must leave us, not because you are a teacher of drawing
Not because you are a teacher of drawing
but because Laura Fairlie is engaged to be married
Crush it
Here, where you first saw her, crush it! Don't shrink under it like a woman. Tear it out; trample it under foot like a man
Are you yourself again
Enough myself, Miss Halcombe, to ask your pardon and hers. Enough myself to be guided by your advice, and to prove my gratitude in that way, if I can prove it in no other
You have proved it already
by those words. Mr. Hartright, concealment is at an end between us. I cannot affect to hide from you what my sister has unconsciously shown to me. You must leave us for her sake, as well as for your own. Your presence here, your necessary intimacy with us, harmless as it has been, God knows, in all other respects, has unsteadied her and made her wretched. I, who love her better than my own life -- I, who have learnt to believe in that pure, noble, innocent nature as I believe in my religion -- know but too well the secret misery of self-reproach that she has been suffering since the first shadow of a feeling disloyal to her marriage engagement entered her heart in spite of her. I don't say -- it would be useless to attempt to say it after what has happened -- that her engagement has ever had a strong hold on her affections. It is an engagement of honour, not of love; her father sanctioned it on his deathbed, two years since; she herself neither welcomed it nor shrank from it -- she was content to make it. Till you came here she was in the position of hundreds of other women, who marry men without being greatly attracted to them or greatly repelled by them, and who learn to love them (when they don't learn to hate!) after marriage, instead of before. I hope more earnestly than words can say -- and you should have the self-sacrificing courage to hope too -- that the new thoughts and feelings which have disturbed the old calmness and the old content have not taken root too deeply to be ever removed. Your absence (if I had less belief in your honour, and your courage, and your sense, I should not trust to them as I am trusting now) your absence will help my efforts, and time will help us all three. It is something to know that my first confidence in you was not all misplaced. It is something to know that you will not be less honest, less manly, less considerate towards the pupil whose relation to yourself you have had the misfortune to forget, than towards the stranger and the outcast whose appeal to you was not made in vain
Tell me what apology I can make to Mr. Fairlie for breaking my engagement
Tell me when to go after that apology is accepted. I promise implicit obedience to you and to your advice
Time is every way of importance
You heard me refer this morning to Monday next, and to the necessity of setting the purple room in order. The visitor whom we expect on Monday
Let me go to-day
The sooner the better
No, not to-day
The only reason you can assign to Mr. Fairlie for your departure, before the end of your engagement, must be that an unforeseen necessity compels you to ask his permission to return at once to London. You must wait till to- morrow to tell him that, at the time when the post comes in, because he will then understand the sudden change in your plans, by associating it with the arrival of a letter from London. It is miserable and sickening to descend to deceit, even of the most harmless kind -- but I know Mr. Fairlie, and if you once excite his suspicions that you are trifling with him, he will refuse to release you. Speak to him on Friday morning: occupy yourself afterwards (for the sake of your own interests with your employer) in leaving your unfinished work in as little confusion as possible, and quit this place on Saturday. It will be time enough then, Mr. Hartright, for you, and for all of us
Could I speak to you for a moment, miss
We have arranged all that is necessary, Mr. Hartright
We have understood each other, as friends should, and we may go back at once to the house. To tell you the truth, I am uneasy about Laura. She has sent to say she wants to see me directly, and the maid reports that her mistress is apparently very much agitated by a letter that she has received this morning -- the same letter, no doubt, which I sent on to the house before we came here
Now that you are kind enough to tell me we have understood each other, Miss Halcombe
now that you are sure of my gratitude for your forbearance and my obedience to your wishes, may I venture to ask who
who the gentleman engaged to Miss Fairlie is
A gentleman of large property in Hampshire
And his name
Sir Percival Glyde
Sir Percival Glyde
Knight, or Baronet
Baronet, of course
Mr. Hartright
I had hoped that all painful subjects of conversation were exhausted between us, for to-day at least. But it is not to be so. There is some underhand villainy at work to frighten my sister about her approaching marriage. You saw me send the gardener on to the house, with a letter addressed, in a strange handwriting, to Miss Fairlie
Certainly
The letter is an anonymous letter -- a vile attempt to injure Sir Percival Glyde in my sister's estimation. It has so agitated and alarmed her that I have had the greatest possible difficulty in composing her spirits sufficiently to allow me to leave her room and come here. I know this is a family matter on which I ought not to consult you, and in which you can feel no concern or interest
I beg your pardon, Miss Halcombe. I feel the strongest possible concern and interest in anything that affects Miss Fairlie's happiness or yours
I am glad to hear you say so. You are the only person in the house, or out of it, who can advise me. Mr. Fairlie, in his state of health and with his horror of difficulties and mysteries of all kinds, is not to be thought of. The clergyman is a good, weak man, who knows nothing out of the routine of his duties; and our neighbours are just the sort of comfortable, jog-trot acquaintances whom one cannot disturb in times of trouble and danger. What I want to know is this: ought I at once to take such steps as I can to discover the writer of the letter? or ought I to wait, and apply to Mr. Fairlie's legal adviser to-morrow? It is a question -- perhaps a very important one -- of gaining or losing a day. Tell me what you think, Mr. Hartright. If necessity had not already obliged me to take you into my confidence under very delicate circumstances, even my helpless situation would, perhaps, be no excuse for me. But as things are I cannot surely be wrong, after all that has passed between us, in forgetting that you are a friend of only three months' standing
Do you believe in dreams? I hope, for your own sake, that you do. See what Scripture says about dreams and their fulfilment (Genesis xl. 8, xli. 25; Daniel iv. 18-25), and take the warning I send you before it is too late. "Last night I dreamed about you, Miss Fairlie. I dreamed that I was standing inside the communion rails of a church -- I on one side of the altar-table, and the clergyman, with his surplice and his prayer-book, on the other. 

"After a time there walked towards us, down the aisle of the church, a man and a woman, coming to be married. You were the woman. You looked so pretty and innocent in your beautiful white silk dress, and your long white lace veil, that my heart felt for you, and the tears came into my eyes. 

"They were tears of pity, young lady, that heaven blesses and instead of falling from my eyes like the everyday tears that we all of us shed, they turned into two rays of light which slanted nearer and nearer to the man standing at the altar with you, till they touched his breast. The two rays sprang ill arches like two rainbows between me and him. I looked along them, and I saw down into his inmost heart. 

"The outside of the man you were marrying was fair enough to see. He was neither tall nor short -- he was a little below the middle size. A light, active, high-spirited man -- about five-and-forty years old, to look at. He had a pale face, and was bald over the forehead, but had dark hair on the rest of his head. His beard was shaven on his chin, but was let to grow, of a fine rich brown, on his cheeks and his upper lip. His eyes were brown too, and very bright; his nose straight and handsome and delicate enough to have done for a woman's. His hands the same. He was troubled from time to time with a dry hacking cough, and when he put up his white right hand to his mouth, he showed the red scar of an old wound across the back of it. Have I dreamt of the right man? You know best, Miss Fairlie and you can say if I was deceived or not. Read next, what I saw beneath the outside -- I entreat you, read, and profit. 

"I looked along the two rays of light, and I saw down into his inmost heart. It was black as night, and on it were written, in the red flaming letters which are the handwriting of the fallen angel, 'Without pity and without remorse. He has strewn with misery the paths of others, and he will live to strew with misery the path of this woman by his side.' I read that, and then the rays of light shifted and pointed over his shoulder; and there, behind him, stood a fiend laughing. And the rays of light shifted once more, and pointed over your shoulder; and there behind you, stood an angel weeping. And the rays of light shifted for the third time, and pointed straight between you and that man. They widened and widened, thrusting you both asunder, one from the other. And the clergyman looked for the marriage-service in vain: it was gone out of the book, and he shut up the leaves, and put it from him in despair. And I woke with my eyes full of tears and my heart beating -- for I believe in dreams. 

"Believe too, Miss Fairlie -- I beg of you, for your own sake, believe as I do. Joseph and Daniel, and others in Scripture, believed in dreams. Inquire into the past life of that man with the scar on his hand, before you say the words that make you his miserable wife. I don't give you this warning on my account, but on yours. I have an interest in your well-being that will live as long as I draw breath. Your mother's daughter has a tender place in my heart -- for your mother was my first, my best, my only friend
small hand
That is not an illiterate letter
and at the same time, it is surely too incoherent to be the letter of an educated person in the higher ranks of life. The reference to the bridal dress and veil, and other little expressions, seem to point to it as the production of some woman. What do you think, Mr. Hartright
I think so too. It seems to me to be not only the letter of a woman, but of a woman whose mind must be
Deranged
It struck me in that light too
Your mother's daughter has a tender place in my heart -- for your mother was my first, my best, my only friend
If we have any chance of tracing the person who has written this
there can be no harm in seizing our opportunity the moment it offers. I think we ought to speak to the gardener again about the elderly woman who gave him the letter, and then to continue our inquiries in the village. But first let me ask a question. You mentioned just now the alternative of consulting Mr. Fairlie's legal adviser to-morrow. Is there no possibility of communicating with him earlier? Why not to-day
I can only explain
by entering into certain particulars, connected with my sister's marriage- engagement, which I did not think it necessary or desirable to mention to you this morning. One of Sir Percival Glyde's objects in coming here on Monday, is to fix the period of his marriage, which has hitherto been left quite unsettled. He is anxious that the event should take place before the end of the year
Does Miss Fairlie know of that wish
She has no suspicion of it, and after what has happened, I shall not take the responsibility upon myself of enlightening her. Sir Percival has only mentioned his views to Mr. Fairlie, who has told me himself that he is ready and anxious, as Laura's guardian, to forward them. He has written to London, to the family solicitor, Mr. Gilmore. Mr. Gilmore happens to be away in Glasgow on business, and he has replied by proposing to stop at Limmeridge House on his way back to town. He will arrive to-morrow, and will stay with us a few days, so as to allow Sir Percival time to plead his own cause. If he succeeds, Mr. Gilmore will then return to London, taking with him his instructions for my sister's marriage- settlement. You understand now, Mr. Hartright, why I speak of waiting to take legal advice until to-morrow? Mr. Gilmore is the old and tried friend of two generations of Fairlies, and we can trust him, as we could trust no one else
If we are to find out anything
we had better not let another minute slip by us unemployed. I can only suggest, once more, the propriety of questioning the gardener a second time, and of inquiring in the village immediately afterwards
I think I may be of help to you in both cases
Let us go, Mr. Hartright, at once, and do the best we can together
One of the paragraphs of the anonymous letter
contains some sentences of minute personal description. Sir Percival Glyde's name is not mentioned, I know -- but does that description at all resemble him
Accurately -- even in stating his age to be forty-five
Accurately
even to the scar on his right hand, which is the scar of a wound that he received years since when he was travelling in Italy. There can be no doubt that every peculiarity of his personal appearance is thoroughly well known to the writer of the letter
Even a cough that he is troubled with is mentioned, if I remember right
Yes, and mentioned correctly. He treats it lightly himself, though it sometimes makes his friends anxious about him
I suppose no whispers have ever been heard against his character
Mr. Hartright! I hope you are not unjust enough to let that infamous letter influence you
I hope not
Perhaps I had no right to ask the question
I am not sorry you asked it
for it enables me to do justice to Sir Percival's reputation. Not a whisper, Mr. Hartright, has ever reached me, or my family, against him. He has fought successfully two contested elections, and has come out of the ordeal unscathed. A man who can do that, in England, is a man whose character is established
I am afraid the schoolmaster must have been occupied with his scholars
just at the time when the woman passed through the village and returned again. However, we can but try
Now, boys
mind what I tell you. If I hear another word spoken about ghosts in this school, it will be the worse for all of you. There are no such things as ghosts, and therefore any boy who believes in ghosts believes in what can't possibly be; and a boy who belongs to Limmeridge School, and believes in what can't possibly be, sets up his back against reason and discipline, and must be punished accordingly. You all see Jacob Postlethwaite standing up on the stool there in disgrace. He has been punished, not because he said he saw a ghost last night, but because he is too impudent and too obstinate to listen to reason, and because he persists in saying he saw the ghost after I have told him that no such thing can possibly be. If nothing else will do, I mean to cane the ghost out of Jacob Postlethwaite, and if the thing spreads among any of the rest of you, I mean to go a step farther, and cane the ghost out of the whole school
We seem to have chosen an awkward moment for our visit
Go home all of you to dinner
except Jacob. Jacob must stop where he is; and the ghost may bring him his dinner, if the ghost pleases
We came here to ask you a question, Mr. Dempster
and we little expected to find you occupied in exorcising a ghost. What does it all mean? What has really happened
That wicked boy has been frightening the whole school, Miss Halcombe, by declaring that he saw a ghost yesterday evening
and he still persists in his absurd story, in spite of all that I can say to him
Most extraordinary
I should not have thought it possible that any of the boys had imagination enough to see a ghost. This is a new accession indeed to the hard labour of forming the youthful mind at Limmeridge, and I heartily wish you well through it, Mr. Dempster. In the meantime, let me explain why you see me here, and what it is I want
We may as well return to the house, Mr. Hartright
the information we want is evidently not to be found
You foolish boy
why don't you beg Mr. Dempster's pardon, and hold your tongue about the ghost
Eh!-- but I saw t' ghaist
Stuff and nonsense! You saw nothing of the kind. Ghost indeed! What ghost
I beg your pardon, Miss Halcombe
but I think you had better not question the boy. The obstinate folly of his story is beyond all belief; and you might lead him into ignorantly
Ignorantly what
Ignorantly shocking your feelings
Upon my word, Mr. Dempster, you pay my feelings a great compliment in thinking them weak enough to be shocked by such an urchin as that
Come
I mean to know all about this. You naughty boy, when did you see the ghost
Yestere'en, at the gloaming
Oh! you saw it yesterday evening, in the twilight? And what was it like
Arl in white -- as a ghaist should be
And where was it
Away yander, in t' kirkyard -- where a ghaist ought to be
As a 'ghaist' should be -- where a 'ghaist' ought to be -- why, you little fool, you talk as if the manners and customs of ghosts had been familiar to you from your infancy! You have got your story at your fingers' ends, at any rate. I suppose I shall hear next that you can actually tell me whose ghost it was
Eh! but I just can
Excuse me, Miss Halcombe
if I venture to say that you are only encouraging the boy by asking him these questions
I will merely ask one more, Mr. Dempster, and then I shall be quite satisfied. Well
and whose ghost was it
T' ghaist of Mistress Fairlie
It is useless
to hold such a child as that responsible for what he says. I have little doubt that the idea has been put into his head by others. If there are people in this village, Mr. Dempster, who have forgotten the respect and gratitude due from every soul in it to my mother's memory, I will find them out, and if I have any influence with Mr. Fairlie, they shall suffer for it
I hope -- indeed, I am sure, Miss Halcombe -- that you are mistaken
The matter begins and ends with the boy's own perversity and folly. He saw, or thought he saw, a woman in white, yesterday evening, as he was passing the churchyard; and the figure, real or fancied, was standing by the marble cross, which he and every one else in Limmeridge knows to be the monument over Mrs. Fairlie's grave. These two circumstances are surely sufficient to have suggested to the boy himself the answer which has so naturally shocked you
A very strong opinion
the boy's story, as I believe, has a foundation in fact. I confess I am anxious to see the monument over Mrs. Fairlie's grave, and to examine the ground about it
You shall see the grave
What has happened in the schoolroom
has so completely distracted my attention from the subject of the letter, that I feel a little bewildered when I try to return to it. Must we give up all idea of making any further inquiries, and wait to place the thing in Mr. Gilmore's hands to-morrow
By no means, Miss Halcombe. What has happened in the schoolroom encourages me to persevere in the investigation
Why does it encourage you
Because it strengthens a suspicion I felt when you gave me the letter to read
I suppose you had your reasons, Mr. Hartright, for concealing that suspicion from me till this moment
I was afraid to encourage it in myself. I thought it was utterly preposterous -- I distrusted it as the result of some perversity in my own imagination. But I can do so no longer. Not only the boy's own answers to your questions, but even a chance expression that dropped from the schoolmaster's lips in explaining his story, have forced the idea back into my mind. Events may yet prove that idea to be a delusion, Miss Halcombe; but the belief is strong in me, at this moment, that the fancied ghost in the churchyard, and the writer of the anonymous letter, are one and the same person
What person
The schoolmaster unconsciously told you. When he spoke of the figure that the boy saw in the churchyard he called it 'a woman in white
Not Anne Catherick
Yes, Anne Catherick
I don't know why
but there is something in this suspicion of yours that seems to startle and unnerve me. I feel
Mr. Hartright
I will show you the grave, and then go back at once to the house. I had better not leave Laura too long alone. I had better go back and sit with her
I need go no farther with you
You will let me know if you find anything to confirm the idea you have just mentioned to me. Let us meet again at the house
I hope it may end well
Don't you fret, my dear, about the letter
I gave it to the lad quite safe, and the lad he took it from me without a word. He went his way and I went mine, and not a living soul followed me afterwards -- that I'll warrant
Mind you keep that comfortable warm cloak on
Mrs. Todd is right about your looking too particular, yesterday, all in white. I'll walk about a little while you're here, churchyards being not at all in my way, whatever they may be in yours. Finish what you want to do before I come back, and let us be sure and get home again before night
Queer
always queer, with her whims and her ways, ever since I can remember her. Harmless, though -- as harmless, poor soul, as a little child
Don't be frightened
Surely you remember me
You remember me
We met very late, and I helped you to find the way to London. Surely you have not forgotten that
Don't attempt to speak to me just yet
Take time to recover yourself -- take time to feel quite certain that I am a friend
You are very kind to me
As kind now as you were then
Are you calmer now
Can you talk to me without feeling frightened, and without forgetting that I am a friend
How did you come here
Don't you remember my telling you, when we last met, that I was going to Cumberland? I have been in Cumberland ever since -- I have been staying all the time at Limmeridge House
At Limmeridge House
Ah, how happy you must have been
You are looking at me, and you are thinking of something
What is it
Nothing extraordinary
I was only wondering how you came here
I came with a friend who is very good to me. I have only been here two days
And you found your way to this place yesterday
How do you know that
I only guessed it
Where should I go if not here
The friend who was better than a mother to me is the only friend I have to visit at Limmeridge. Oh, it makes my heart ache to see a stain on her tomb! It ought to be kept white as snow, for her sake. I was tempted to begin cleaning it yesterday, and I can't help coming back to go on with it to-day. Is there anything wrong in that? I hope not. Surely nothing can be wrong that I do for Mrs. Fairlie's sake
Should you wonder very much
if I owned that it is a satisfaction to me, as well as a surprise, to see you here? I felt very uneasy about you after you left me in the cab
Uneasy
Why
A strange thing happened after we parted that night. Two men overtook me in a chaise. They did not see where I was standing, but they stopped near me, and spoke to a policeman on the other side of the way
The two men spoke to the policeman
and asked him if he had seen you. He had not seen you; and then one of the men spoke again, and said you had escaped from his Asylum
Stop! and hear the end
Stop! and you shall know how I befriended you. A word from me would have told the men which way you had gone -- and I never spoke that word. I helped your escape -- I made it safe and certain. Think, try to think. Try to understand what I tell you
YOU don't think I ought to be back in the Asylum, do you
Certainly not. I am glad you escaped from it -- I am glad I helped you
Yes, yes, you did help me indeed; you helped me at the hard part
It was easy to escape, or I should not have got away. They never suspected me as they suspected the others. I was so quiet, and so obedient, and so easily frightened. The finding London was the hard part, and there you helped me. Did I thank you at the time? I thank you now very kindly
Was the Asylum far from where you met me? Come! show that you believe me to be your friend, and tell me where it was
You don't think I ought to be taken back, do you
Once again, I am glad you escaped -- I am glad you prospered well after you left me
You said you had a friend in London to go to. Did you find the friend
Yes. It was very late, but there was a girl up at needle-work in the house, and she helped me to rouse Mrs. Clements. Mrs. Clements is my friend. A good, kind woman, but not like Mrs. Fairlie. Ah no, nobody is like Mrs. Fairlie
Is Mrs. Clements an old friend of yours? Have you known her a long time
Yes, she was a neighbour of ours once, at home, in Hampshire, and liked me, and took care of me when I was a little girl. Years ago, when she went away from us, she wrote down in my Prayer-book for me where she was going to live in London, and she said, 'If you are ever in trouble, Anne, come to me. I have no husband alive to say me nay, and no children to look after, and I will take care of you.' Kind words, were they not? I suppose I remember them because they were kind. It's little enough I remember besides -- little enough, little enough
Had you no father or mother to take care of you
Father?-- I never saw him -- I never heard mother speak of him. Father? Ah, dear! he is dead, I suppose
And your mother
I don't get on well with her. We are a trouble and a fear to each other
Don't ask me about mother
I'd rather talk of Mrs. Clements. Mrs. Clements is like you, she doesn't think that I ought to be back in the Asylum, and she is as glad as you are that I escaped from it. She cried over my misfortune, and said it must be kept secret from everybody
misfortune
What misfortune
The misfortune of my being shut up
What other misfortune could there be
There is another misfortune
to which a woman may be liable, and by which she may suffer lifelong sorrow and shame
What is it
The misfortune of believing too innocently in her own virtue, and in the faith and honour of the man she loves
I don't understand you
Never mind
Let us go on with what we were talking about. Tell me how long you stayed with Mrs. Clements in London, and how you came here
How long
I stayed with Mrs. Clements till we both came to this place, two days ago
You are living in the village, then
It is strange I should not have heard of you, though you have only been here two days
No, no, not in the village. Three miles away at a farm. Do you know the farm? They call it Todd's Corner
They are relations of Mrs. Clements at Todd's Corner
and they had often asked her to go and see them. She said she would go, and take me with her, for the quiet and the fresh air. It was very kind, was it not? I would have gone anywhere to be quiet, and safe, and out of the way. But when I heard that Todd's Corner was near Limmeridge -- oh! I was so happy I would have walked all the way barefoot to get there, and see the schools and the village and Limmeridge House again. They are very good people at Todd's Corner. I hope I shall stay there a long time. There is only one thing I don't like about them, and don't like about Mrs. Clements
What is it
They will tease me about dressing all in white -- they say it looks so particular. How do they know? Mrs. Fairlie knew best. Mrs. Fairlie would never have made me wear this ugly blue cloak! Ah! she was fond of white in her lifetime, and here is white stone about her grave -- and I am making it whiter for her sake. She often wore white herself, and she always dressed her little daughter in white. Is Miss Fairlie well and happy? Does she wear white now, as she used when she was a girl
Miss Fairlie was not very well or very happy this morning
Did you ask me why Miss Fairlie was neither well nor happy this morning
No
oh no, I never asked that
I will tell you without your asking
Miss Fairlie has received your letter
How do you know
Who showed it to you
I never wrote it
I know nothing about it
Yes
you wrote it, and you know about it. It was wrong to send such a letter, it was wrong to frighten Miss Fairlie. If you had anything to say that it was right and necessary for her to hear, you should have gone yourself to Limmeridge House -- you should have spoken to the young lady with your own lips
Miss Fairlie will be as good and kind to you as her mother was, if you mean well
Miss Fairlie will keep your secret, and not let you come to any harm. Will you see her to- morrow at the farm? Will you meet her in the garden at Limmeridge House
Oh, if I could die, and be hidden and at rest with YOU
You know how I love your child, for your sake! Oh, Mrs. Fairlie! Mrs. Fairlie! tell me how to save her. Be my darling and my mother once more, and tell me what to do for the best
Come, come
Try to compose yourself, or you will make me alter my opinion of you. Don't let me think that the person who put you in the Asylum might have had some excuse
Talk of something else
I shall lose myself if you talk of that
I will talk of nothing to distress you
You want something
Don't look at me like that. Speak to me -- tell me what you want
I only want you to quiet yourself, and when you are calmer, to think over what I have said
Said
What is it he said
Why don't you help me
Yes, yes
I will help you, and you will soon remember. I ask you to see Miss Fairlie to-morrow and to tell her the truth about the letter
Ah! Miss Fairlie -- Fairlie -- Fairlie
You need have no fear of Miss Fairlie
and no fear of getting into trouble through the letter. She knows so much about it already, that you will have no difficulty in telling her all. There can be little necessity for concealment where there is hardly anything left to conceal. You mention no names in the letter; but Miss Fairlie knows that the person you write of is Sir Percival Glyde
I'm coming! I'm coming
Who are you
How dare you frighten a poor helpless woman like that
What is it, my dear
What has he done to you
Nothing
Nothing. I'm only frightened
I should be heartily ashamed of myself if I deserved that angry look
But I do not deserve it. I have unfortunately startled her without intending it. This is not the first time she has seen me. Ask her yourself, and she will tell you that I am incapable of willingly harming her or any woman
Yes, yes
he was good to me once -- he helped me
Strange, indeed
It makes all the difference, though. I'm sorry I spoke so rough to you, sir; but you must own that appearances looked suspicious to a stranger. It's more my fault than yours, for humouring her whims, and letting her be alone in such a place as this. Come, my dear -- come home now
Try to forgive me
I will try
But you know too much -- I'm afraid you'll always frighten me now
Good-night, sir
You couldn't help it, I know but I wish it was me you had frightened, and not her
Wait a little
I must say good-bye
I'm better now
I forgive you
My mind misgives me
My mind misgives me sadly about the future
The future may depend
on the use we make of the present. It is not improbable that Anne Catherick may speak more readily and unreservedly to a woman than she has spoken to me. If Miss Fairlie
Not to be thought of for a moment
Let me suggest, then
that you should see Anne Catherick yourself, and do all you can to win her confidence. For my own part, I shrink from the idea of alarming the poor creature a second time, as I have most unhappily alarmed her already. Do you see any objection to accompanying me to the farmhouse to- morrow
None whatever. I will go anywhere and do anything to serve Laura's interests. What did you say the place was called
You must know it well. It is called Todd's Corner
Certainly. Todd's Corner is one of Mr. Fairlie's farms. Our dairymaid here is the farmer's second daughter. She goes backwards and forwards constantly between this house and her father's farm, and she may have heard or seen something which it may be useful to us to know. Shall I ascertain, at once, if the girl is downstairs
I can speak to her to-morrow
In the meantime, let me thoroughly understand the object to be gained by my interview with Anne Catherick. Is there no doubt in your mind that the person who confined her in the Asylum was Sir Percival Glyde
There is not the shadow of a doubt. The only mystery that remains is the mystery of his MOTIVE. Looking to the great difference between his station in life and hers, which seems to preclude all idea of the most distant relationship between them, it is of the last importance -- even assuming that she really required to be placed under restraint -- to know why HE should have been the person to assume the serious responsibility of shutting her up
In a private Asylum, I think you said
Yes, in a private Asylum, where a sum of money, which no poor person could afford to give, must have been paid for her maintenance as a patient
I see where the doubt lies, Mr. Hartright, and I promise you that it shall be set at rest, whether Anne Catherick assists us to- morrow or not. Sir Percival Glyde shall not be long in this house without satisfying Mr. Gilmore, and satisfying me. My sister's future is my dearest care in life, and I have influence enough over her to give me some power, where her marriage is concerned, in the disposal of it
respects
kind compliments
Mr. Fairlie's compliments to Mr. Hartright. Mr. Fairlie is more surprised and disappointed than he can say (in the present state of his health) by Mr. Hartright's application. Mr. Fairlie is not a man of business, but he has consulted his steward, who is, and that person confirms Mr. Fairlie's opinion that Mr. Hartright's request to be allowed to break his engagement cannot be justified by any necessity whatever, excepting perhaps a case of life and death. If the highly-appreciative feeling towards Art and its professors, which it is the consolation and happiness of Mr. Fairlie's suffering existence to cultivate, could be easily shaken, Mr. Hartright's present proceeding would have shaken it. It has not done so -- except in the instance of Mr. Hartright himself. "Having stated his opinion -- so far, that is to say, as acute nervous suffering will allow him to state anything -- Mr. Fairlie has nothing to add but the expression of his decision, in reference to the highly irregular application that has been made to him. Perfect repose of body and mind being to the last degree important in his case, Mr. Fairlie will not suffer Mr. Hartright to disturb that repose by remaining in the house under circumstances of an essentially irritating nature to both sides. Accordingly, Mr. Fairlie waives his right of refusal, purely with a view to the preservation of his own tranquillity -- and informs Mr. Hartright that he may go
Has Mr. Fairlie given you a satisfactory answer
He has allowed me to go, Miss Halcombe
Does Anne Catherick refuse to see you
Anne Catherick is gone
Gone
Gone with Mrs. Clements. They both left the farm at eight o'clock this morning
All that Mrs. Todd knows about her guests, I know
and it leaves me, as it leaves her, in the dark. They both came back safe last night, after they left you, and they passed the first part of the evening with Mr. Todd's family as usual. Just before supper-time, however, Anne Catherick startled them all by being suddenly seized with faintness. She had had a similar attack, of a less alarming kind, on the day she arrived at the farm; and Mrs. Todd had connected it, on that occasion, with something she was reading at the time in our local newspaper, which lay on the farm table, and which she had taken up only a minute or two before
Does Mrs. Todd know what particular passage in the newspaper affected her in that way
No
She had looked it over, and had seen nothing in it to agitate any one. I asked leave, however, to look it over in my turn, and at the very first page I opened I found that the editor had enriched his small stock of news by drawing upon our family affairs, and had published my sister's marriage engagement, among his other announcements, copied from the London papers, of Marriages in High Life. I concluded at once that this was the paragraph which had so strangely affected Anne Catherick, and I thought I saw in it, also, the origin of the letter which she sent to our house the next day
There can be no doubt in either case. But what did you hear about her second attack of faintness yesterday evening
Nothing. The cause of it is a complete mystery. There was no stranger in the room. The only visitor was our dairymaid, who, as I told you, is one of Mr. Todd's daughters, and the only conversation was the usual gossip about local affairs. They heard her cry out, and saw her turn deadly pale, without the slightest apparent reason. Mrs. Todd and Mrs. Clements took her upstairs, and Mrs. Clements remained with her. They were heard talking together until long after the usual bedtime, and early this morning Mrs. Clements took Mrs. Todd aside, and amazed her beyond all power of expression by saying that they must go. The only explanation Mrs. Todd could extract from her guest was, that something had happened, which was not the fault of any one at the farmhouse, but which was serious enough to make Anne Catherick resolve to leave Limmeridge immediately. It was quite useless to press Mrs. Clements to be more explicit. She only shook her head, and said that, for Anne's sake, she must beg and pray that no one would question her. All she could repeat, with every appearance of being seriously agitated herself, was that Anne must go, that she must go with her, and that the destination to which they might both betake themselves must be kept a secret from everybody. I spare you the recital of Mrs. Todd's hospitable remonstrances and refusals. It ended in her driving them both to the nearest station, more than three hours since. She tried hard on the way to get them to speak more plainly, but without success; and she set them down outside the station-door, so hurt and offended by the unceremonious abruptness of their departure and their unfriendly reluctance to place the least confidence in her, that she drove away in anger, without so much as stopping to bid them good-bye. That is exactly what has taken place. Search your own memory, Mr. Hartright, and tell me if anything happened in the burial-ground yesterday evening which can at all account for the extraordinary departure of those two women this morning
I should like to account first, Miss Halcombe, for the sudden change in Anne Catherick which alarmed them at the farmhouse, hours after she and I had parted, and when time enough had elapsed to quiet any violent agitation that I might have been unfortunate enough to cause. Did you inquire particularly about the gossip which was going on in the room when she turned faint
Yes. But Mrs. Todd's household affairs seem to have divided her attention that evening with the talk in the farmhouse parlour. She could only tell me that it was 'just the news,'-- meaning, I suppose, that they all talked as usual about each other
The dairymaid's memory may be better than her mother's
It may be as well for you to speak to the girl, Miss Halcombe, as soon as we get back
I have brought this gentleman to see your dairy, Hannah
It is one of the sights of the house, and it always does you credit
We have just come from your father's
You were there yesterday evening, I hear, and you found visitors at the house
Yes, miss
One of them was taken faint and ill, I am told. I suppose nothing was said or done to frighten her? You were not talking of anything very terrible, were you
Oh no, miss
We were only talking of the news
Your sisters told you the news at Todd's Corner, I suppose
Yes, miss
And you told them the news at Limmeridge House
Yes, miss. And I'm quite sure nothing was said to frighten the poor thing, for I was talking when she was taken ill. It gave me quite a turn, miss, to see it, never having been taken faint myself
Ask her if she happened to mention, last night, that visitors were expected at Limmeridge House
Oh yes, miss, I mentioned that
The company coming, and the accident to the brindled cow, was all the news I had to take to the farm
Did you mention names? Did you tell them that Sir Percival Glyde was expected on Monday
Yes, miss -- I told them Sir Percival Glyde was coming. I hope there was no harm in it -- I hope I didn't do wrong
Oh no, no harm. Come, Mr. Hartright, Hannah will begin to think us in the way, if we interrupt her any longer over her work
Is there any doubt in your mind, NOW, Miss Halcombe
Sir Percival Glyde shall remove that doubt, Mr. Hartright -- or Laura Fairlie shall never be his wife
You are the very person I wanted to see
I had two words to say to you, my dear sir; and If you have no objection I will avail myself of the present opportunity. To put it plainly, Miss Halcombe and I have been talking over family affairs -- affairs which are the cause of my being here -- and in the course of our conversation she was naturally led to tell me of this unpleasant matter connected with the anonymous letter, and of the share which you have most creditably and properly taken in the proceedings so far. That share, I quite understand, gives you an interest which you might not otherwise have felt, in knowing that the future management of the investigation which you have begun will be placed in safe hands. My dear sir, make yourself quite easy on that point -- it will be placed in MY hands
You are, in every way, Mr. Gilmore, much fitter to advise and to act in the matter than I am. Is it an indiscretion on my part to ask if you have decided yet on a course of proceeding
So far as it is possible to decide, Mr. Hartright, I have decided. I mean to send a copy of the letter, accompanied by a statement of the circumstances, to Sir Percival Glyde's solicitor in London, with whom I have some acquaintance. The letter itself I shall keep here to show to Sir Percival as soon as he arrives. The tracing of the two women I have already provided for, by sending one of Mr. Fairlie's servants -- a confidential person -- to the station to make inquiries. The man has his money and his directions, and he will follow the women in the event of his finding any clue. This is all that can be done until Sir Percival comes on Monday. I have no doubt myself that every explanation which can be expected from a gentleman and a man of honour, he will readily give. Sir Percival stands very high, sir -- an eminent position, a reputation above suspicion -- I feel quite easy about results -- quite easy, I am rejoiced to assure you. Things of this sort happen constantly in my experience. Anonymous letters -- unfortunate woman -- sad state of society. I don't deny that there are peculiar complications in this case; but the case itself is, most unhappily, common -- common
I am afraid, Mr. Gilmore, I have the misfortune to differ from you in the view I take of the case
Just so, my dear sir -- just so. I am an old man, and I take the practical view. You are a young man, and you take the romantic view. Let us not dispute about our views. I live professionally in an atmosphere of disputation, Mr. Hartright, and I am only too glad to escape from it, as I am escaping here. We will wait for events -- yes, yes, yes -- we will wait for events. Charming place this. Good shooting? Probably not, none of Mr. Fairlie's land is preserved, I think. Charming place, though, and delightful people. You draw and paint, I hear, Mr. Hartright? Enviable accomplishment. What style
No, no
leave us like a friend -- break bread with us once more. Stay here and dine, stay here and help us to spend our last evening with you as happily, as like our first evenings, as we can. It is my invitation -- Mrs. Vesey's invitation
Laura's invitation as well
Well
what have you found out
I have found out, sir
that both the women took tickets at our station here for Carlisle
You went to Carlisle, of course, when you heard that
I did, sir, but I am sorry to say I could find no further trace of them
You inquired at the railway
Yes, sir
And at the different inns
Yes, sir
And you left the statement I wrote for you at the police station
I did, sir
Well, my friend, you have done all you could, and I have done all I could, and there the matter must rest till further notice. We have played our trump cards, Mr. Hartright
For the present, at least, the women have outmanoeuvred us, and our only resource now is to wait till Sir Percival Glyde comes here on Monday next. Won't you fill your glass again? Good bottle of port, that -- sound, substantial, old wine. I have got better in my own cellar, though
Shall I play some of those little melodies of Mozart's which you used to like so much
Won't you take your old place
I may take it on the last night
I am very sorry you are going
I shall remember those kind words, Miss Fairlie, long after to- morrow has come and gone
Don't speak of to-morrow
Let the music speak to us of to-night, in a happier language than ours
You play at whist, Mr. Hartright
I WILL play it
I WILL play it on the last night
Come, Mrs. Vesey
Mr. Gilmore and I are tired of ecarte -- come and be Mr. Hartright's partner at whist
I shall not see you again, Mr. Hartright
I am truly sorry you are going away. You have been very kind and attentive, and an old woman like me feels kindness and attention. I wish you happy, sir -- I wish you a kind good-bye
I hope we shall have a future opportunity of bettering our acquaintance, Mr. Hartright. You quite understand about that little matter of business being safe in my hands? Yes, yes, of course. Bless me, how cold it is! Don't let me keep you at the door. Bon voyage, my dear sir -- bon voyage, as the French say
Half-past seven to-morrow morning
I have heard and seen more than you think. Your conduct to-night has made me your friend for life
My departure must be a very early one
I shall be gone, Miss Fairlie, before you
No, no
not before I am out of my room. I shall be down to breakfast with Marian. I am not so ungrateful, not so forgetful of the past three months
Better so
better so, for you and for her
Have I deserved that you should write to me
You have nobly deserved everything that I can do for you, as long as we both live. Whatever the end is you shall know it
And if I can ever be of help again, at any future time, long after the memory of my presumption and my folly is forgotten
I will trust you -- if ever the time comes I will trust you as my friend and HER friend, as my brother and HER brother
God bless you, Walter
Wait here alone and compose yourself -- I had better not stay for both our sakes -- I had better see you go from the balcony upstairs
I only went into the drawing-room
to look for this. It may remind you of your visit here, and of the friends you leave behind you. You told me I had improved very much when I did it, and I thought you might like
It shall never leave me -- all my life long it shall be the treasure that I prize most. I am very grateful for it -- very grateful to you, for not letting me go away without bidding you good-bye
Oh
how could I let you go, after we have passed so many happy days together
Those days may never return, Miss Fairlie -- my way of life and yours are very far apart. But if a time should come, when the devotion of my whole heart and soul and strength will give you a moment's happiness, or spare you a moment's sorrow, will you try to remember the poor drawing-master who has taught you? Miss Halcombe has promised to trust me -- will you promise too
I promise it
Oh, don't look at me like that! I promise it with all my heart
You have many friends who love you, Miss Fairlie. Your happy future is the dear object of many hopes. May I say, at parting, that it is the dear object of MY hopes too
For God's sake, leave me
If my plain statement of facts had only been addressed to Mr. Gilmore
I should consider any further reference to this unhappy matter as unnecessary. I may fairly expect Mr. Gilmore, as a gentleman, to believe me on my word, and when he has done me that justice, all discussion of the subject between us has come to an end. But my position with a lady is not the same. I owe to her -- what I would concede to no man alive -- a PROOF of the truth of my assertion. You cannot ask for that proof, Miss Halcombe, and it is therefore my duty to you, and still more to Miss Fairlie, to offer it. May I beg that you will write at once to the mother of this unfortunate woman -- to Mrs. Catherick -- to ask for her testimony in support of the explanation which I have just offered to you
I hope, Sir Percival, you don't do me the injustice to suppose that I distrust you
Certainly not, Miss Halcombe. I make my proposal purely as an act of attention to YOU. Will you excuse my obstinacy if I still venture to press it
Let me beg you to write the note
as a favour to ME. It need not occupy you more than a few minutes. You have only to ask Mrs. Catherick two questions. First, if her daughter was placed in the Asylum with her knowledge and approval. Secondly, if the share I took in the matter was such as to merit the expression of her gratitude towards myself? Mr. Gilmore's mind is at ease on this unpleasant subject, and your mind is at ease -- pray set my mind at ease also by writing the note
You oblige me to grant your request, Sir Percival, when I would much rather refuse it
Come, Nina
we remember each other, don't we
You insist on my posting this letter, Sir Percival
I beg you will post it
And now that it is written and sealed up, allow me to ask one or two last questions about the unhappy woman to whom it refers. I have read the communication which Mr. Gilmore kindly addressed to my solicitor, describing the circumstances under which the writer of the anonymous letter was identified. But there are certain points to which that statement does not refer. Did Anne Catherick see Miss Fairlie
Certainly not
Did she see you
No
She saw nobody from the house then, except a certain Mr. Hartright, who accidentally met with her in the churchyard here
Nobody else
Mr. Hartright was employed at Limmeridge as a drawing-master, I believe? Is he a member of one of the Water-Colour Societies
I believe he is
Did you find out where Anne Catherick was living, when she was in this neighbourhood
Yes. At a farm on the moor, called Todd's Corner
It is a duty we all owe to the poor creature herself to trace her
She may have said something at Todd's Corner which may help us to find her. I will go there and make inquiries on the chance. In the meantime, as I cannot prevail on myself to discuss this painful subject with Miss Fairlie, may I beg, Miss Halcombe, that you will kindly undertake to give her the necessary explanation, deferring it of course until you have received the reply to that note
A good morning's work, Miss Halcombe
Here is an anxious day well ended already
Yes
no doubt. I am very glad your mind is satisfied
My mind! Surely, with that note in your hand, your mind is at ease too
Oh yes -- how can it be otherwise? I know the thing could not be
but I almost wish Walter Hartright had stayed here long enough to be present at the explanation, and to hear the proposal to me to write this note
Events, it is true, connected Mr. Hartright very remarkably with the affair of the letter
and I readily admit that he conducted himself, all things considered, with great delicacy and discretion. But I am quite at a loss to understand what useful influence his presence could have exercised in relation to the effect of Sir Percival's statement on your mind or mine
It was only a fancy
There is no need to discuss it, Mr. Gilmore. Your experience ought to be, and is, the best guide I can desire
If any doubts still trouble you
why not mention them to me at once? Tell me plainly, have you any reason to distrust Sir Percival Glyde
None whatever
Do you see anything improbable, or contradictory, in his explanation
How can I say I do, after the proof he has offered me of the truth of it? Can there be better testimony in his favour, Mr. Gilmore, than the testimony of the woman's mother
None better. If the answer to your note of inquiry proves to be satisfactory, I for one cannot see what more any friend of Sir Percival's can possibly expect from him
Then we will post the note
and dismiss all further reference to the subject until the answer arrives. Don't attach any weight to my hesitation. I can give no better reason for it than that I have been over-anxious about Laura lately -- and anxiety, Mr. Gilmore, unsettles the strongest of us
MADAM,-- I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, inquiring whether my daughter, Anne, was placed under medical superintendence with my knowledge and approval, and whether the share taken in the matter by Sir Percival Glyde was such as to merit the expression of my gratitude towards that gentleman. Be pleased to accept my answer in the affirmative to both those questions, and believe me to remain, your obedient servant, "JANE ANNE CATHERICK
I suppose we have really and truly done all we can
If we are friends of Sir Percival's, who know him and trust him, we have done all, and more than all, that is necessary
But if we are enemies who suspect him
That alternative is not even to be thought of
We are Sir Percival's friends, and if generosity and forbearance can add to our regard for him, we ought to be Sir Percival's admirers as well. You know that he saw Mr. Fairlie yesterday, and that he afterwards went out with me
Yes. I saw you riding away together
We began the ride by talking about Anne Catherick, and about the singular manner in which Mr. Hartright met with her. But we soon dropped that subject, and Sir Percival spoke next, in the most unselfish terms, of his engagement with Laura. He said he had observed that she was out of spirits, and he was willing, if not informed to the contrary, to attribute to that cause the alteration in her manner towards him during his present visit. If, however, there was any more serious reason for the change, he would entreat that no constraint might be placed on her inclinations either by Mr. Fairlie or by me. All he asked, in that case, was that she would recall to mind, for the last time, what the circumstances were under which the engagement between them was made, and what his conduct had been from the beginning of the courtship to the present time. If, after due reflection on those two subjects, she seriously desired that he should withdraw his pretensions to the honour of becoming her husband -- and if she would tell him so plainly with her own lips -- he would sacrifice himself by leaving her perfectly free to withdraw from the engagement
No man could say more than that, Miss Halcombe. As to my experience, few men in his situation would have said as much
I accuse nobody, and I suspect nothing
But I cannot and will not accept the responsibility of persuading Laura to this marriage
That is exactly the course which Sir Percival Glyde has himself requested you to take
He has begged you not to force her inclinations
And he indirectly obliges me to force them, if I give her his message
How can that possibly be
Consult your own knowledge of Laura, Mr. Gilmore. If I tell her to reflect on the circumstances of her engagement, I at once appeal to two of the strongest feelings in her nature -- to her love for her father's memory, and to her strict regard for truth. You know that she never broke a promise in her life -- you know that she entered on this engagement at the beginning of her father's fatal illness, and that he spoke hopefully and happily of her marriage to Sir Percival Glyde on his deathbed
Surely
you don't mean to infer that when Sir Percival spoke to you yesterday he speculated on such a result as you have just mentioned
Do you think I would remain an instant in the company of any man whom I suspected of such baseness as that
In that case
excuse me if I tell you, in our legal phrase, that you are travelling out of the record. Whatever the consequences may be, Sir Percival has a right to expect that your sister should carefully consider her engagement from every reasonable point of view before she claims her release from it. If that unlucky letter has prejudiced her against him, go at once, and tell her that he has cleared himself in your eyes and in mine. What objection can she urge against him after that? What excuse can she possibly have for changing her mind about a man whom she had virtually accepted for her husband more than two years ago
In the eyes of law and reason, Mr. Gilmore, no excuse, I daresay. If she still hesitates, and if I still hesitate, you must attribute our strange conduct, if you like, to caprice in both cases, and we must bear the imputation as well as we can
You used often to sit on my knee when you were a child, my dear
and now your little dog seems determined to succeed you in the vacant throne. Is that pretty drawing your doing
No
it is not my doing
One of the errands, my dear, which brings me here is to bid you good-bye
I must get back to London to-day: and, before I leave, I want to have a word with you on the subject of your own affairs
I am very sorry you are going, Mr. Gilmore
I hope I may be able to come back and recall those pleasant memories once more
but as there is some uncertainty about the future, I must take my opportunity when I can get it, and speak to you now. I am your old lawyer and your old friend, and I may remind you, I am sure, without offence, of the possibility of your marrying Sir Percival Glyde
Is it absolutely necessary to speak of my marriage engagement
It is necessary to refer to it
but not to dwell on it. Let us merely say that you may marry, or that you may not marry. In the first case, I must be prepared, beforehand, to draw your settlement, and I ought not to do that without, as a matter of politeness, first consulting you. This may be my only chance of hearing what your wishes are. Let us, therefore, suppose the case of your marrying, and let me inform you, in as few words as possible, what your position is now, and what you may make it, if you please, in the future
And now
tell me if you can think of any condition which, in the case we have supposed, you would wish me to make for you -- subject, of course, to your guardian's approval, as you are not yet of age
If it does happen
if I am
If you are married
Don't let him part me from Marian
Oh, Mr. Gilmore, pray make it law that Marian is to live with me
Your having Marian Halcombe to live with you can easily be settled by private arrangement
You hardly understood my question, I think. It referred to your own property -- to the disposal of your money. Supposing you were to make a will when you come of age, who would you like the money to go to
Marian has been mother and sister both to me
May I leave it to Marian, Mr. Gilmore
Certainly, my love
But remember what a large sum it is. Would you like it all to go to Miss Halcombe
Not all of it
There is some one else besides Marian
You mean some other member of the family besides Miss Halcombe
There is some one else
there is some one else who might like a little keepsake if -- if I might leave it. There would be no harm if I should die first
Don't cry, my love
I am very sorry for forgetting myself
I have not been well -- I have felt sadly weak and nervous lately, and I often cry without reason when I am alone. I am better now -- I can answer you as I ought, Mr. Gilmore, I can indeed
No, no, my dear
we will consider the subject as done with for the present. You have said enough to sanction my taking the best possible care of your interests, and we can settle details at another opportunity. Let us have done with business now, and talk of something else
Come here again
I will try to be worthier of your kind feeling for me and for my interests if you will only come again
If I do come again, I hope I shall find you better
better and happier. God bless you, my dear
Kind love and best wishes, dear Gilmore. Hurry of any kind is inexpressibly injurious to me. Pray take care of yourself. Good-bye
Have you said all you wanted to Laura
Yes
She is very weak and nervous -- I am glad she has you to take care of her
You are altering your opinion about Laura
You are readier to make allowances for her than you were yesterday
Let me know what happens. I will do nothing till I hear from you
I wish it was all over, and well over, Mr. Gilmore -- and so do you
If you are ever in my neighbourhood
pray don't forget that I am sincerely anxious to improve our acquaintance. The tried and trusted old friend of this family will be always a welcome visitor in any house of mine
Not admissible. The PRINCIPAL to go to Sir Percival Glyde, in the event of his surviving Lady Glyde, and there being no issue
My dear sir. Miss Fairlie's settlement. I maintain the clause to which you object, exactly as it stands. Yours truly
My dear sir. Miss Fairlie's settlement. I maintain the red ink to which you object, exactly as it stands. Yours truly
at a deadlock
Would dear Gilmore be so very obliging as not to worry his friend and client about such a trifle as a remote contingency? Was it likely that a young woman of twenty-one would die before a man of forty five, and die without children? On the other hand, in such a miserable world as this, was it possible to over-estimate the value of peace and quietness? If those two heavenly blessings were offered in exchange for such an earthly trifle as a remote chance of twenty thousand pounds, was it not a fair bargain? Surely, yes. Then why not make it
And how is good Mr. Gilmore
Glad to see you, sir, in such excellent health. I was passing your door, and I thought I would look in in case you might have something to say to me. Do -- now pray do let us settle this little difference of ours by word of mouth, if we can! Have you heard from your client yet
Yes. Have you heard from yours
My dear, good sir! I wish I had heard from him to any purpose -- I wish, with all my heart, the responsibility was off my shoulders; but he is obstinate -- or let me rather say, resolute -- and he won't take it off. 'Merriman, I leave details to you. Do what you think right for my interests, and consider me as having personally withdrawn from the business until it is all over.' Those were Sir Percival's words a fortnight ago, and all I can get him to do now is to repeat them. I am not a hard man, Mr. Gilmore, as you know. Personally and privately, I do assure you, I should like to sponge out that note of mine at this very moment. But if Sir Percival won't go into the matter, if Sir Percival will blindly leave all his interests in my sole care, what course can I possibly take except the course of asserting them? My hands are bound -- don't you see, my dear sir?-- my hands are bound
You maintain your note on the clause, then, to the letter
Yes -- deuce take it! I have no other alternative
What does your side say
now pray tell me -- what does your side say
Twenty thousand pounds is rather a large sum to be given up by the lady's friends at two days' notice
Very true
Properly put, sir -- most properly put
A compromise, recognising the interests of the lady's family as well as the interests of the husband, might not perhaps have frightened my client quite so much
Come, come! this contingency resolves itself into a matter of bargaining after all. What is the least you will take
The least we will take
is nineteen- thousand-nine-hundred-and-ninety-nine-pounds-nineteen-shillings- and-elevenpence-three-farthings. Ha! ha! ha! Excuse me, Mr. Gilmore. I must have my little joke
Little enough
The joke is just worth the odd farthing it was made for
This is Friday
Give us till Tuesday next for our final answer
By all means
Longer, my dear sir, if you like
By the way
your clients in Cumberland have not heard anything more of the woman who wrote the anonymous letter, have they
Nothing more
Have you found no trace of her
Not yet
But we don't despair. Sir Percival has his suspicions that Somebody is keeping her in hiding, and we are having that Somebody watched
You mean the old woman who was with her in Cumberland
Quite another party, sir
We don't happen to have laid hands on the old woman yet. Our Somebody is a man. We have got him close under our eye here in London, and we strongly suspect he had something to do with helping her in the first instance to escape from the Asylum. Sir Percival wanted to question him at once, but I said, 'No. Questioning him will only put him on his guard -- watch him, and wait.' We shall see what happens. A dangerous woman to be at large, Mr. Gilmore; nobody knows what she may do next. I wish you good-morning, sir. On Tuesday next I shall hope for the pleasure of hearing from you
Have you been long back from Cumberland
I heard from Miss Halcombe lately. I am aware that Sir Percival Glyde's explanation has been considered satisfactory. Will the marriage take place soon? Do you happen to know Mr. Gilmore
Time will show, Mr. Hartright
time will show. I dare say if we look out for the marriage in the papers we shall not be far wrong. Excuse my noticing it, but I am sorry to see you not looking so well as you were when we last met
I had no right to ask about her marriage
I must wait to see it in the newspapers like other people. Yes
I have not been well lately. I am going to another country to try a change of scene and occupation. Miss Halcombe has kindly assisted me with her influence, and my testimonials have been found satisfactory. It is a long distance off, but I don't care where I go, what the climate is, or how long I am away
I wish you well through it, and safe back again
I am going down to Limmeridge to-day on business. Miss Halcombe and Miss Fairlie are away just now on a visit to some friends in Yorkshire
You very best of good old friends
are you QUITE well? How nice of you to come here and see me in my solitude. Dear Gilmore
I have come to speak to you on a very important matter
and you will therefore excuse me, if I suggest that we had better be alone
better be alone
Oblige me by giving that man permission to withdraw
Man
You provoking old Gilmore, what can you possibly mean by calling him a man? He's nothing of the sort. He might have been a man half an hour ago, before I wanted my etchings, and he may be a man half an hour hence, when I don't want them any longer. At present he is simply a portfolio stand. Why object, Gilmore, to a portfolio stand
I DO object. For the third time, Mr. Fairlie, I beg that we may be alone
Put down the etchings and go away
Don't upset me by losing my place. Have you, or have you not, lost my place? Are you sure you have not? And have you put my hand-bell quite within my reach? Yes? Then why the devil don't you go
I have come here at great personal inconvenience
to serve the interests of your niece and your family, and I think I have established some slight claim to be favoured with your attention in return
Don't bully me
Please don't bully me. I'm not strong enough
My object
is to entreat you to reconsider your letter, and not to force me to abandon the just rights of your niece, and of all who belong to her. Let me state the case to you once more, and for the last time
This is heartless of you, Gilmore -- very heartless
Never mind, go on
Good Gilmore
how very nice this is of you! How you reconcile one to human nature
Give me a plain answer to a plain question, Mr. Fairlie. I tell you again, Sir Percival Glyde has no shadow of a claim to expect more than the income of the money. The money itself if your niece has no children, ought to be under her control, and to return to her family. If you stand firm, Sir Percival must give way -- he must give way, I tell you, or he exposes himself to the base imputation of marrying Miss Fairlie entirely from mercenary motives
You dear old Gilmore, how you do hate rank and family, don't you? How you detest Glyde because he happens to be a baronet. What a Radical you are -- oh, dear me, what a Radical you are
Don't shake the room
for Heaven's sake don't shake the room! Worthiest of all possible Gilmores, I meant no offence. My own views are so extremely liberal that I think I am a Radical myself. Yes. We are a pair of Radicals. Please don't be angry. I can't quarrel -- I haven't stamina enough. Shall we drop the subject? Yes. Come and look at these sweet etchings. Do let me teach you to understand the heavenly pearliness of these lines. Do now, there's a good Gilmore
You are entirely wrong, sir
in supposing that I speak from any prejudice against Sir Percival Glyde. I may regret that he has so unreservedly resigned himself in this matter to his lawyer's direction as to make any appeal to himself impossible, but I am not prejudiced against him. What I have said would equally apply to any other man in his situation, high or low. The principle I maintain is a recognised principle. If you were to apply at the nearest town here, to the first respectable solicitor you could find, he would tell you as a stranger what I tell you as a friend. He would inform you that it is against all rule to abandon the lady's money entirely to the man she marries. He would decline, on grounds of common legal caution, to give the husband, under any circumstances whatever, an interest of twenty thousand pounds in his wife's death
Would he really, Gilmore
If he said anything half so horrid, I do assure you I should tinkle my bell for Louis, and have him sent out of the house immediately
You shall not irritate me, Mr. Fairlie -- for your niece's sake and for her father's sake, you shall not irritate me. You shall take the whole responsibility of this discreditable settlement on your own shoulders before I leave the room
Don't!-- now please don't
Think how precious your time is, Gilmore, and don't throw it away. I would dispute with you if I could, but I can't -- I haven't stamina enough. You want to upset me, to upset yourself, to upset Glyde, and to upset Laura; and -- oh, dear me!-- all for the sake of the very last thing in the world that is likely to happen. No, dear friend, in the interests of peace and quietness, positively No
I am to understand, then, that you hold by the determination expressed in your letter
Yes, please. So glad we understand each other at last. Sit down again -- do
Whatever happens in the future, sir
remember that my plain duty of warning you has been performed. As the faithful friend and servant of your family, I tell you, at parting, that no daughter of mine should be married to any man alive under such a settlement as you are forcing me to make for Miss Fairlie
Louis
show Mr. Gilmore out, and then come back and hold up my etchings for me again. Make them give you a good lunch downstairs. Do, Gilmore, make my idle beasts of servants give you a good lunch
I wanted you
Come and sit down on the sofa with me. Marian! I can bear this no longer -- I must and will end it
Tell me quietly, my darling, what you wish to do
Has Mr. Gilmore been advising you
No, not in what I am thinking of now. He was very kind and good to me, Marian, and I am ashamed to say I distressed him by crying. I am miserably helpless -- I can't control myself. For my own sake, and for all our sakes, I must have courage enough to end it
Do you mean courage enough to claim your release
No
Courage, dear, to tell the truth
I can never claim my release from my engagement
Whatever way it ends it must end wretchedly for me. All I can do, Marian, is not to add the remembrance that I have broken my promise and forgotten my father's dying words, to make that wretchedness worse
What is it you propose, then
To tell Sir Percival Glyde the truth with my own lips
and to let him release me, if he will, not because I ask him, but because he knows all
What do you mean, Laura, by 'all'? Sir Percival will know enough (he has told me so himself) if he knows that the engagement is opposed to your own wishes
Can I tell him that, when the engagement was made for me by my father, with my own consent? I should have kept my promise, not happily, I am afraid, but still contentedly
I should have kept my engagement, Marian, if another love had not grown up in my heart, which was not there when I first promised to be Sir Percival's wife
Laura! you will never lower yourself by making a confession to him
I shall lower myself, indeed, if I gain my release by hiding from him what he has a right to know
He has not the shadow of a right to know it
Wrong, Marian, wrong! I ought to deceive no one -- least of all the man to whom my father gave me, and to whom I gave myself
My own love
you are so much too fond of me, and so much too proud of me, that you forget, in my case, what you would remember in your own. Better that Sir Percival should doubt my motives, and misjudge my conduct if he will, than that I should be first false to him in thought, and then mean enough to serve my own interests by hiding the falsehood
Don't be angry with me, Marian
I have thought of this, love, for many days
I have thought of it very seriously, and I can be sure of my courage when my own conscience tells me I am right. Let me speak to him to-morrow -- in your presence, Marian. I will say nothing that is wrong, nothing that you or I need be ashamed of -- but, oh, it will ease my heart so to end this miserable concealment! Only let me know and feel that I have no deception to answer for on my side, and then, when he has heard what I have to say, let him act towards me as he will
Leave it there to-night
to-morrow may be cruel, and may make me say good-bye to it for ever
Don't be afraid of me, Marian
I may forget myself with an old friend like Mr. Gilmore, or with a dear sister like you, but I will not forget myself with Sir Percival Glyde
I wish to speak to you, Sir Percival
on a subject that is very important to us both. My sister is here, because her presence helps me and gives me confidence. She has not suggested one word of what I am going to say -- I speak from my own thoughts, not from hers. I am sure you will be kind enough to understand that before I go any farther
I have heard from Marian
that I have only to claim my release from our engagement to obtain that release from you. It was forbearing and generous on your part, Sir Percival, to send me such a message. It is only doing you justice to say that I am grateful for the offer, and I hope and believe that it is only doing myself justice to tell you that I decline to accept it
I have not forgotten
that you asked my father's permission before you honoured me with a proposal of marriage. Perhaps you have not forgotten either what I said when I consented to our engagement? I ventured to tell you that my father's influence and advice had mainly decided me to give you my promise. I was guided by my father, because I had always found him the truest of all advisers, the best and fondest of all protectors and friends. I have lost him now -- I have only his memory to love, but my faith in that dear dead friend has never been shaken. I believe at this moment, as truly as I ever believed, that he knew what was best, and that his hopes and wishes ought to be my hopes and wishes too
May I ask
if I have ever proved myself unworthy of the trust which it has been hitherto my greatest honour and greatest happiness to possess
I have found nothing in your conduct to blame
You have always treated me with the same delicacy and the same forbearance. You have deserved my trust, and, what is of far more importance in my estimation, you have deserved my father's trust, out of which mine grew. You have given me no excuse, even if I had wanted to find one, for asking to be released from my pledge. What I have said so far has been spoken with the wish to acknowledge my whole obligation to you. My regard for that obligation, my regard for my father's memory, and my regard for my own promise, all forbid me to set the example, on my side, of withdrawing from our present position. The breaking of our engagement must be entirely your wish and your act, Sir Percival -- not mine
My act
What reason can there be on my side for withdrawing
A reason that it is very hard to tell you
There is a change in me, Sir Percival -- a change which is serious enough to justify you, to yourself and to me, in breaking off our engagement
What change
I have heard
and I believe it, that the fondest and truest of all affections is the affection which a woman ought to bear to her husband. When our engagement began that affection was mine to give, if I could, and yours to win, if you could. Will you pardon me, and spare me, Sir Percival, if I acknowledge that it is not so any longer
Sir Percival
have you nothing to say when my sister has said so much? More, in my opinion
than any man alive, in your position, has a right to hear from her
Pardon me, Miss Halcombe
pardon me if I remind you that I have claimed no such right
I hope I have not made my painful acknowledgment in vain
I hope it has secured me your entire confidence in what I have still to say
Pray be assured of it
I wish you to understand that I have not spoken from any selfish motive
If you leave me, Sir Percival, after what you have just heard, you do not leave me to marry another man, you only allow me to remain a single woman for the rest of my life. My fault towards you has begun and ended in my own thoughts. It can never go any farther. No word has passed
No word has passed
between myself and the person to whom I am now referring for the first and last time in your presence of my feelings towards him, or of his feelings towards me -- no word ever can pass -- neither he nor I are likely, in this world, to meet again. I earnestly beg you to spare me from saying any more, and to believe me, on my word, in what I have just told you. It is the truth. Sir Percival, the truth which I think my promised husband has a claim to hear, at any sacrifice of my own feelings. I trust to his generosity to pardon me, and to his honour to keep my secret
Both those trusts are sacred to me
and both shall be sacredly kept
I have said all I wish to say
I have said more than enough to justify you in withdrawing from your engagement
You have said more than enough
to make it the dearest object of my life to KEEP the engagement
You have left it to ME, Miss Fairlie, to resign you
I am not heartless enough to resign a woman who has just shown herself to be the noblest of her sex
No
The most wretched of her sex, if she must give herself in marriage when she cannot give her love
May she not give it in the future
if the one object of her husband's life is to deserve it
Never
If you still persist in maintaining our engagement, I may be your true and faithful wife, Sir Percival -- your loving wife, if I know my own heart, never
I gratefully accept your faith and truth
The least that you can offer is more to me than the utmost that I could hope for from any other woman in the world
I must submit, Marian, as well as I can
My new life has its hard duties, and one of them begins to-day
I must part from everything that reminds me of him
Keep the key wherever you please -- I shall never want it again
Oh, Laura! Laura
It is the last time, Marian
I am bidding it good-bye for ever
You write to him and he writes to you
While I am alive, if he asks after me always tell him I am well, and never say I am unhappy. Don't distress him, Marian, for my sake, don't distress him. If I die first, promise you will give him this little book of his drawings, with my hair in it. There can be no harm, when I am gone, in telling him that I put it there with my own hands. And say -- oh, Marian, say for me, then, what I can never say for myself -- say I loved him
I left yesterday to decide
and yesterday HAS decided. It is too late to go back
Dear Marian! how I envy you your robust nervous system! Don't bang the door
My uncle is right
I have caused trouble and anxiety enough to you, and to all about me. Let me cause no more, Marian -- let Sir Percival decide
I am held to my engagement
I have broken with my old life. The evil day will not come the less surely because I put it off. No, Marian! once again my uncle is right. I have caused trouble enough and anxiety enough, and I will cause no more
I will go anywhere with you, Marian. I dare say you are right -- I dare say the change will do me good
excellent conscience
excellent constitution
Not so soon
Oh, Marian, not so soon
Let me go
My tongue burns to tell your uncle that he and Sir Percival are not to have it all their own way
No
Too late, Marian, too late
Not a minute too late
The question of time is OUR question -- and trust me, Laura, to take a woman's full advantage of it
It will only involve us in more trouble and more confusion
It will set you and my uncle at variance, and bring Sir Percival here again with fresh causes of complaint
So much the better
Who cares for his causes of complaint? Are you to break your heart to set his mind at ease? No man under heaven deserves these sacrifices from us women. Men! They are the enemies of our innocence and our peace -- they drag us away from our parents' love and our sisters' friendship -- they take us body and soul to themselves, and fasten our helpless lives to theirs as they chain up a dog to his kennel. And what does the best of them give us in return? Let me go, Laura -- I'm mad when I think of it
Oh, Marian
You crying! Think what you would say to me, if the places were changed, and if those tears were mine. All your love and courage and devotion will not alter what must happen, sooner or later. Let my uncle have his way. Let us have no more troubles and heart-burnings that any sacrifice of mine can prevent. Say you will live with me, Marian, when I am married -- and say no more
While we were at Polesdean
you had a letter, Marian
I thought, Laura, that you and I were never to refer to him again
You had a letter from him
Yes
if you must know it
Do you mean to write to him again
Suppose I do mean to write to him again
What then, Laura
Don't tell him about THE TWENTY-SECOND
Promise, Marian -- pray promise you will not even mention my name to him when you write next
Are you going to my uncle's room
Will you say that I consent to whatever arrangement he may think best? Never mind leaving me, Marian. I shall be better alone for a little while
Laura consents to the twenty-second
These events have a meaning, these events must lead to a result. The mystery of Anne Catherick is NOT cleared up yet. She may never cross my path again, but if ever she crosses yours, make better use of the opportunity, Miss Halcombe, than I made of it. I speak on strong conviction -- I entreat you to remember what I say
I shall lose you so soon, Marian
I must make the most of you while I can
Keep me always doing something
keep me always in company with somebody. Don't let me think -- that is all I ask now, Marian -- don't let me think
You found, of course, that they had heard nothing
Nothing whatever
I begin to be seriously afraid that we have lost her. Do you happen to know
if the artist -- Mr. Hartright -- is in a position to give us any further information
He has neither heard of her, nor seen her, since he left Cumberland
Very sad
It is impossible to say what misfortunes may not have happened to the miserable creature. I am inexpressibly annoyed at the failure of all my efforts to restore her to the care and protection which she so urgently needs
in the name of pity, in the name of everything, dear Marian, that is most affectionate and most domestic, and most delightfully and charmingly self-composed, WITHOUT TEARS
of Sir Percival Glyde, Bart
Madonna and Child by Raphael. In the possession of Frederick Fairlie, Esquire
Copper coin of the period of Tiglath Pileser. In the possession of Frederick Fairlie, Esquire
Unique Rembrandt etching. Known all over Europe as THE SMUDGE, from a printer's blot in the corner which exists in no other copy. Valued at three hundred guineas. In the possession of Frederick Fairlie, Esq
I am quite of your opinion, miss
the old wing
I am quite of your opinion, miss
What do you see there to laugh at
Do you know whose dog it is
No, miss, that I certainly don't
That's Baxter's doings, that is
Baxter
Who is the brute you call Baxter
Bless you, miss! Baxter's the keeper, and when he finds strange dogs hunting about, he takes and shoots 'em. It's keeper's dooty miss, I think that dog will die. Here's where he's been shot, ain't it? That's Baxter's doings, that is. Baxter's doings, miss, and Baxter's dooty
It's Baxter's doings and Baxter's dooty -- that's what it is
Why, Lord bless me
that must be Mrs. Catherick's dog
Whose
Mrs. Catherick's. You seem to know Mrs. Catherick, Miss Halcombe
Not personally, but I have heard of her. Does she live here? Has she had any news of her daughter
No, Miss Halcombe, she came here to ask for news
When
Only yesterday. She said some one had reported that a stranger answering to the description of her daughter had been seen in our neighbourhood. No such report has reached us here, and no such report was known in the village, when I sent to make inquiries there on Mrs. Catherick's account. She certainly brought this poor little dog with her when she came, and I saw it trot out after her when she went away. I suppose the creature strayed into the plantations, and got shot. Where did you find it, Miss Halcombe
In the old shed that looks out on the lake
Ah, yes, that is the plantation side, and the poor thing dragged itself, I suppose, to the nearest shelter, as dogs will, to die. If you can moisten its lips with the milk, Miss Halcombe, I will wash the clotted hair from the wound. I am very much afraid it is too late to do any good. However, we can but try
If ever Anne Catherick crosses your path, make better use of the opportunity, Miss Halcombe, than I made of it
Did you say that Mrs. Catherick lived anywhere in this neighbourhood
Oh dear, no
She lives at Welmingham, quite at the other end of the county -- five-and-twenty miles off, at least
I suppose you have known Mrs. Catherick for some years
On the contrary, Miss Halcombe, I never saw her before she came here yesterday. I had heard of her, of course, because I had heard of Sir Percival's kindness in putting her daughter under medical care. Mrs. Catherick is rather a strange person in her manners, but extremely respectable-looking. She seemed sorely put out when she found that there was no foundation -- none, at least, that any of us could discover -- for the report of her daughter having been seen in this neighbourhood
I am rather interested about Mrs. Catherick
I wish I had arrived here soon enough to see her yesterday. Did she stay for any length of time
Yes
she stayed for some time; and I think she would have remained longer, if I had not been called away to speak to a strange gentleman -- a gentleman who came to ask when Sir Percival was expected back. Mrs. Catherick got up and left at once, when she heard the maid tell me what the visitor's errand was. She said to me, at parting, that there was no need to tell Sir Percival of her coming here. I thought that rather an odd remark to make, especially to a person in my responsible situation
Probably
probably she thought the announcement of her visit might vex Sir Percival to no purpose, by reminding him that her lost daughter was not found yet. Did she talk much on that subject
Very little
She talked principally of Sir Percival, and asked a great many questions about where he had been travelling, and what sort of lady his new wife was. She seemed to be more soured and put out than distressed, by failing to find any traces of her daughter in these parts. 'I give her up,' were the last words she said that I can remember; 'I give her up, ma'am, for lost.' And from that she passed at once to her questions about Lady Glyde, wanting to know if she was a handsome, amiable lady, comely and healthy and young ---- Ah, dear! I thought how it would end. Look, Miss Halcombe, the poor thing is out of its misery at last
comely and healthy and young
Whenever you and I are together, Marian
we shall both be happier and easier with one another, if we accept my married life for what it is, and say and think as little about it as possible. I would tell you everything, darling, about myself
if my confidences could only end there. But they could not -- they would lead me into confidences about my husband too; and now I am married, I think I had better avoid them, for his sake, and for your sake, and for mine. I don't say that they would distress you, or distress me -- I wouldn't have you think that for the world. But -- I want to be so happy, now I have got you back again, and I want you to be so happy too
Ah
another old friend found already! Your bookcase, Marian -- your dear-little-shabby-old-satin-wood bookcase -- how glad I am you brought it with you from Limmeridge! And the horrid heavy man's umbrella, that you always would walk out with when it rained! And first and foremost of all, your own dear, dark, clever, gipsy-face, looking at me just as usual! It is so like home again to be here. How can we make it more like home still? I will put my father's portrait in your room instead of in mine -- and I will keep all my little treasures from Limmeridge here -- and we will pass hours and hours every day with these four friendly walls round us. Oh, Marian
promise you will never marry, and leave me. It is selfish to say so, but you are so much better off as a single woman -- unless -- unless you are very fond of your husband -- but you won't be very fond of anybody but me, will you
Have you been writing many letters, and receiving many letters lately
Have you heard from him
Is he well and happy, and getting on in his profession? Has he recovered himself -- and forgotten me
How-d'ye-do, Miss Halcombe -- glad to see you again
go upstairs
Mind that dog, sir
he flies at everybody
He does that, my friend
because everybody is afraid of him. Let us see if he flies at me
You big dogs are all cowards
You would kill a poor cat, you infernal coward. You would fly at a starving beggar, you infernal coward. Anything that you can surprise unawares -- anything that is afraid of your big body, and your wicked white teeth, and your slobbering, bloodthirsty mouth, is the thing you like to fly at. You could throttle me at this moment, you mean, miserable bully, and you daren't so much as look me in the face, because I'm not afraid of you. Will you think better of it, and try your teeth in my fat neck? Bah! not you
Ah! my nice waistcoat
I am sorry I came here. Some of that brute's slobber has got on my pretty clean waistcoat
my angel
My good Percival! how I like your rough English humour
Mr. Merriman has just come, Sir Percival, and wishes to see you immediately
Mr. Merriman
Yes, Sir Percival -- Mr. Merriman, from London
Where is he
In the library, Sir Percival
Who is Mr. Merriman
I have not the least idea
Mr. Merriman is Sir Percival's solicitor
Yes
yes, Miss Halcombe, something HAS happened
I never said so
Make your mind easy, Sir Percival
it all rests with Lady Glyde
You quite understand, Sir Percival
Lady Glyde is to sign her name in the presence of a witness -- or of two witnesses, if you wish to be particularly careful -- and is then to put her finger on the seal and say, 'I deliver this as my act and deed.' If that is done in a week's time the arrangement will be perfectly successful, and the anxiety will be all over. If not
What do you mean by 'if not
If the thing must be done it SHALL be done. I promise you that, Merriman
Just so, Sir Percival -- just so; but there are two alternatives in all transactions, and we lawyers like to look both of them in the face boldly. If through any extraordinary circumstance the arrangement should not be made, I think I may be able to get the parties to accept bills at three months. But how the money is to be raised when the bills fall due
Damn the bills! The money is only to be got in one way, and in that way, I tell you again, it SHALL be got. Take a glass of wine, Merriman, before you go
Much obliged, Sir Percival, I have not a moment to lose if I am to catch the up-train. You will let me know as soon as the arrangement is complete? and you will not forget the caution I recommended
Of course I won't. There's the dog-cart at the door for you. My groom will get you to the station in no time. Benjamin, drive like mad! Jump in. If Mr. Merriman misses the train you lose your place. Hold fast, Merriman, and if you are upset trust to the devil to save his own
I feared as much
when I heard of that strange gentleman who called, and declined to leave his name
Who do you think the gentleman was, then
Some person who has heavy claims on Sir Percival
and who has been the cause of Mr. Merriman's visit here to-day
Do you know anything about those claims
No, I know no particulars
You will sign nothing, Laura, without first looking at it
Certainly not, Marian. Whatever I can harmlessly and honestly do to help him I will do -- for the sake of making your life and mine, love, as easy and as happy as possible. But I will do nothing ignorantly, which we might, one day, have reason to feel ashamed of. Let us say no more about it now. You have got your hat on -- suppose we go and dream away the afternoon in the grounds
Figaro qua! Figaro la! Figaro su! Figaro giu
Take my word for it, Laura, that man knows something of Sir Percival's embarrassments
What makes you think that
How should he have known, otherwise, that Mr. Merriman was Sir Percival's solicitor
Besides, when I followed you out of the luncheon-room, he told me, without a single word of inquiry on my part, that something had happened. Depend upon it, he knows more than we do
Don't ask him any questions if he does. Don't take him into our confidence
You seem to dislike him, Laura, in a very determined manner. What has he said or done to justify you
Nothing, Marian. On the contrary, he was all kindness and attention on our journey home, and he several times checked Sir Percival's outbreaks of temper, in the most considerate manner towards me. Perhaps I dislike him because he has so much more power over my husband than I have. Perhaps it hurts my pride to be under any obligations to his interference. All I know is, that I DO dislike him
We expect to see him here directly
The fact is
I want Fosco and his wife in the library, for a mere business formality, and I want you there, Laura, for a minute too
Have you just come in
or were you just going out
We were all thinking of going to the lake this morning
But if you have any other arrangement to propose
No, no
My arrangement can wait. After lunch will do as well for it as after breakfast. All going to the lake, eh? A good idea. Let's have an idle morning -- I'll be one of the party
With your kind permission
I will take my small family here -- my poor-little-harmless-pretty-Mouseys, out for an airing along with us. There are dogs about the house, and shall I leave my forlorn white children at the mercies of the dogs? Ah, never
Some people call that picturesque
I call it a blot on a gentleman's property. In my great- grandfather's time the lake flowed to this place. Look at it now! It is not four feet deep anywhere, and it is all puddles and pools. I wish I could afford to drain it, and plant it all over. My bailiff (a superstitious idiot) says he is quite sure the lake has a curse on it, like the Dead Sea. What do you think, Fosco? It looks just the place for a murder, doesn't it
My good Percival
What is your solid English sense thinking of? The water is too shallow to hide the body, and there is sand everywhere to print off the murderer's footsteps. It is, upon the whole, the very worst place for a murder that I ever set my eyes on
Humbug
You know what I mean. The dreary scenery, the lonely situation. If you choose to understand me, you can -- if you don't choose, I am not going to trouble myself to explain my meaning
And why not
when your meaning can be explained by anybody in two words? If a fool was going to commit a murder, your lake is the first place he would choose for it. If a wise man was going to commit a murder, your lake is the last place he would choose for it. Is that your meaning? If it is, there is your explanation for you ready made. Take it, Percival, with your good Fosco's blessing
I am sorry to hear the lake-view connected with anything so horrible as the idea of murder
And if Count Fosco must divide murderers into classes, I think he has been very unfortunate in his choice of expressions. To describe them as fools only seems like treating them with an indulgence to which they have no claim. And to describe them as wise men sounds to me like a downright contradiction in terms. I have always heard that truly wise men are truly good men, and have a horror of crime
My dear lady
those are admirable sentiments, and I have seen them stated at the tops of copy-books
My pretty little smooth white rascal
here is a moral lesson for you. A truly wise mouse is a truly good mouse. Mention that, if you please, to your companions, and never gnaw at the bars of your cage again as long as you live
It is easy to turn everything into ridicule
but you will not find it quite so easy, Count Fosco, to give me an instance of a wise man who has been a great criminal
Most true
The fool's crime is the crime that is found out, and the wise man's crime is the crime that is NOT found out. If I could give you an instance, it would not be the instance of a wise man. Dear Lady Glyde, your sound English common sense has been too much for me. It is checkmate for me this time, Miss Halcombe -- ha
Stand to your guns, Laura
Tell him next, that crimes cause their own detection. There's another bit of copy-book morality for you, Fosco. Crimes cause their own detection. What infernal humbug
I believe it to be true
I believe it too
Poor dear Percival
he is the victim of English spleen. But, my dear Miss Halcombe, my dear Lady Glyde, do you really believe that crimes cause their own detection? And you, my angel
do you think so too
I wait to be instructed
before I venture on giving my opinion in the presence of well-informed men
Do you, indeed
I remember the time, Countess, when you advocated the Rights of Women, and freedom of female opinion was one of them
What is your view of the subject, Count
It is truly wonderful
how easily Society can console itself for the worst of its shortcomings with a little bit of clap-trap. The machinery it has set up for the detection of crime is miserably ineffective -- and yet only invent a moral epigram, saying that it works well, and you blind everybody to its blunders from that moment. Crimes cause their own detection, do they? And murder will out (another moral epigram), will it? Ask Coroners who sit at inquests in large towns if that is true, Lady Glyde. Ask secretaries of life-assurance companies if that is true, Miss Halcombe. Read your own public journals. In the few cases that get into the newspapers, are there not instances of slain bodies found, and no murderers ever discovered? Multiply the cases that are reported by the cases that are NOT reported, and the bodies that are found by the bodies that are NOT found, and what conclusion do you come to? This. That there are foolish criminals who are discovered, and wise criminals who escape. The hiding of a crime, or the detection of a crime, what is it? A trial of skill between the police on one side, and the individual on the other. When the criminal is a brutal, ignorant fool, the police in nine cases out of ten win. When the criminal is a resolute, educated, highly-intelligent man, the police in nine cases out of ten lose. If the police win, you generally hear all about it. If the police lose, you generally hear nothing. And on this tottering foundation you build up your comfortable moral maxim that Crime causes its own detection! Yes -- all the crime you know of. And what of the rest
Devilish true, and very well put
Some of it may be true
and all of it may be very well put. But I don't see why Count Fosco should celebrate the victory of the criminal over Society with so much exultation, or why you, Sir Percival, should applaud him so loudly for doing it
Do you hear that, Fosco
Take my advice, and make your peace with your audience. Tell them virtue's a fine thing -- they like that, I can promise you
The ladies, my good Percival, shall tell me about virtue
They are better authorities than I am, for they know what virtue is, and I don't
You hear him
Isn't it awful
It is true
I am a citizen of the world, and I have met, in my time, with so many different sorts of virtue, that I am puzzled, in my old age, to say which is the right sort and which is the wrong. Here, in England, there is one virtue. And there, in China, there is another virtue. And John Englishman says my virtue is the genuine virtue. And John Chinaman says my virtue is the genuine virtue. And I say Yes to one, or No to the other, and am just as much bewildered about it in the case of John with the top-boots as I am in the case of John with the pigtail. Ah, nice little Mousey! come, kiss me. What is your own private notion of a virtuous man, my pret-pret-pretty? A man who keeps you warm, and gives you plenty to eat. And a good notion, too, for it is intelligible, at the least
Stay a minute, Count
Accepting your illustration, surely we have one unquestionable virtue in England which is wanting in China. The Chinese authorities kill thousands of innocent people on the most frivolous pretexts. We in England are free from all guilt of that kind -- we commit no such dreadful crime -- we abhor reckless bloodshed with all our hearts
Quite right, Marian
Well thought of, and well expressed
Pray allow the Count to proceed
You will find, young ladies, that HE never speaks without having excellent reasons for all that he says
Thank you, my angel
Have a bon-bon
Chocolat a la Vanille
Offered by Fosco as an act of homage to the charming society
Be good enough to go on, Count
Oblige me by answering Miss Halcombe
Miss Halcombe is unanswerable
that is to say, so far as she goes. Yes! I agree with her. John Bull does abhor the crimes of John Chinaman. He is the quickest old gentleman at finding out faults that are his neighbours', and the slowest old gentleman at finding out the faults that are his own, who exists on the face of creation. Is he so very much better in this way than the people whom he condemns in their way? English Society, Miss Halcombe, is as often the accomplice as it is the enemy of crime. Yes! yes! Crime is in this country what crime is in other countries -- a good friend to a man and to those about him as often as it is an enemy. A great rascal provides for his wife and family. The worse he is the more he makes them the objects for your sympathy. He often provides also for himself. A profligate spendthrift who is always borrowing money will get more from his friends than the rigidly honest man who only borrows of them once, under pressure of the direst want. In the one case the friends will not be at all surprised, and they will give. In the other case they will be very much surprised, and they will hesitate. Is the prison that Mr. Scoundrel lives in at the end of his career a more uncomfortable place than the workhouse that Mr. Honesty lives in at the end of his career? When John-Howard- Philanthropist wants to relieve misery he goes to find it in prisons, where crime is wretched -- not in huts and hovels, where virtue is wretched too. Who is the English poet who has won the most universal sympathy -- who makes the easiest of all subjects for pathetic writing and pathetic painting? That nice young person who began life with a forgery, and ended it by a suicide -- your dear, romantic, interesting Chatterton. Which gets on best, do you think, of two poor starving dressmakers -- the woman who resists temptation and is honest, or the woman who falls under temptation and steals? You all know that the stealing is the making of that second woman's fortune -- it advertises her from length to breadth of good-humoured, charitable England -- and she is relieved, as the breaker of a commandment, when she would have been left to starve, as the keeper of it. Come here, my jolly little Mouse! Hey! presto! pass! I transform you, for the time being, into a respectable lady. Stop there, in the palm of my great big hand, my dear, and listen. You marry the poor man whom you love, Mouse, and one half your friends pity, and the other half blame you. And now, on the contrary, you sell yourself for gold to a man you don't care for, and all your friends rejoice over you, and a minister of public worship sanctions the base horror of the vilest of all human bargains, and smiles and smirks afterwards at your table, if you are polite enough to ask him to breakfast. Hey! presto! pass! Be a mouse again, and squeak. If you continue to be a lady much longer, I shall have you telling me that Society abhors crime -- and then, Mouse, I shall doubt if your own eyes and ears are really of any use to you. Ah! I am a bad man, Lady Glyde, am I not? I say what other people only think, and when all the rest of the world is in a conspiracy to accept the mask for the true face, mine is the rash hand that tears off the plump pasteboard, and shows the bare bones beneath. I will get up on my big elephant's legs, before I do myself any more harm in your amiable estimations -- I will get up and take a little airy walk of my own. Dear ladies, as your excellent Sheridan said, I go -- and leave my character behind me
One, two, three, four ---- Ha
where, in the name of Heaven, is the fifth -- the youngest, the whitest, the most amiable of all -- my Benjamin of mice
Percival
Percival! come here
What's the matter now
Do you see nothing there
I see plenty of dry sand
and a spot of dirt in the middle of it
Not dirt
Blood
Nonsense, my dear
There is no need to be alarmed. It is only the blood of a poor little stray dog
How do you know that
I found the dog here, dying, on the day when you all returned from abroad
The poor creature had strayed into the plantation, and had been shot by your keeper
Whose dog was it
Not one of mine
Did you try to save the poor thing
Surely you tried to save it, Marian
Yes
the housekeeper and I both did our best -- but the dog was mortally wounded, and he died under our hands
Whose dog was it
One of mine
No, not one of yours
Whose then? Did the housekeeper know
Yes
The housekeeper knew. She told me it was Mrs. Catherick's dog
How came the housekeeper to know it was Mrs. Catherick's dog
She knew it
because Mrs. Catherick brought the dog with her
Brought it with her? Where did she bring it with her
To this house
What the devil did Mrs. Catherick want at this house
My dear Percival!-- gently -- gently
Gently, my good friend -- gently
I beg your pardon, Miss Halcombe
I have been out of order lately, and I am afraid I am a little irritable. But I should like to know what Mrs. Catherick could possibly want here. When did she come? Was the housekeeper the only person who saw her
The only person
so far as I know
In that case why not question the housekeeper
Why not go, Percival, to the fountain-head of information at once
Quite right
Of course the housekeeper is the first person to question. Excessively stupid of me not to see it myself
A fine horse, my friend
You are going to drive out
I am not going, sir
My master drives himself
Aha
does he indeed? I wonder he gives himself the trouble when he has got you to drive for him. Is he going to fatigue that nice, shining, pretty horse by taking him very far to-day
I don't know, sir
The horse is a mare, if you please, sir. She's the highest-couraged thing we've got in the stables. Her name's Brown Molly, sir, and she'll go till she drops. Sir Percival usually takes Isaac of York for the short distances
And your shining courageous Brown Molly for the long
Logical inference, Miss Halcombe
Sir Percival is going a long distance to-day
I am sorry to say I am obliged to leave you
a long drive -- a matter that I can't very well put off. I shall be back in good time to-morrow -- but before I go I should like that little business-formality, which I spoke of this morning, to be settled. Laura, will you come into the library? It won't take a minute -- a mere formality. Countess, may I trouble you also? I want you and the Countess, Fosco, to be witnesses to a signature -- nothing more. Come in at once and get it over
I must beg you to come downstairs again
It is Fosco's fault, Miss Halcombe, not mine. He has started some nonsensical objection to his wife being one of the witnesses, and has obliged me to ask you to join us in the library
A thousand pardons, Miss Halcombe
You know the character which is given to my countrymen by the English? We Italians are all wily and suspicious by nature, in the estimation of the good John Bull. Set me down, if you please, as being no better than the rest of my race. I am a wily Italian and a suspicious Italian. You have thought so yourself, dear lady, have you not? Well! it is part of my wiliness and part of my suspicion to object to Madame Fosco being a witness to Lady Glyde's signature, when I am also a witness myself
There is not the shadow of a reason for his objection
I have explained to him that the law of England allows Madame Fosco to witness a signature as well as her husband
I admit it
The law of England says, Yes, but the conscience of Fosco says, No
What this document which Lady Glyde is about to sign may be
I neither know nor desire to know. I only say this, circumstances may happen in the future which may oblige Percival, or his representatives, to appeal to the two witnesses, in which case it is certainly desirable that those witnesses should represent two opinions which are perfectly independent the one of the other. This cannot be if my wife signs as well as myself, because we have but one opinion between us, and that opinion is mine. I will not have it cast in my teeth, at some future day, that Madame Fosco acted under my coercion, and was, in plain fact, no witness at all. I speak in Percival's interest, when I propose that my name shall appear (as the nearest friend of the husband), and your name, Miss Halcombe (as the nearest friend of the wife). I am a Jesuit, if you please to think so -- a splitter of straws -- a man of trifles and crochets and scruples -- but you will humour me, I hope, in merciful consideration for my suspicious Italian character, and my uneasy Italian conscience
I will readily remain in the room
And if I find no reason for starting any small scruples on my side, you may rely on me as a witness
You needn't go
Sign your name there
You and Fosco are to sign afterwards, Miss Halcombe, opposite those two wafers. Come here, Fosco! witnessing a signature is not to be done by mooning out of window and smoking into the flowers
Sign there
What is it I am to sign
I have no time to explain
The dog-cart is at the door, and I must go directly. Besides, if I had time, you wouldn't understand. It is a purely formal document, full of legal technicalities, and all that sort of thing. Come! come! sign your name, and let us have done as soon as possible
I ought surely to know what I am signing, Sir Percival, before I write my name
Nonsense! What have women to do with business? I tell you again, you can't understand it
At any rate, let me try to understand it. Whenever Mr. Gilmore had any business for me to do, he always explained it first, and I always understood him
I dare say he did. He was your servant, and was obliged to explain. I am your husband, and am NOT obliged. How much longer do you mean to keep me here? I tell you again, there is no time for reading anything -- the dog-cart is waiting at the door. Once for all, will you sign or will you not
If my signature pledges me to anything
surely I have some claim to know what that pledge is
Speak out
You were always famous for telling the truth. Never mind Miss Halcombe, never mind Fosco -- say, in plain terms, you distrust me
Control your unfortunate temper, Percival
Lady Glyde is right
Right
A wife right in distrusting her husband
It is unjust and cruel to accuse me of distrusting you
Ask Marian if I am not justified in wanting to know what this writing requires of me before I sign it
I won't have any appeals made to Miss Halcombe
Miss Halcombe has nothing to do with the matter
Excuse me, Sir Percival
but as one of the witnesses to the signature, I venture to think that I HAVE something to do with the matter. Laura's objection seems to me a perfectly fair one, and speaking for myself only, I cannot assume the responsibility of witnessing her signature, unless she first understands what the writing is which you wish her to sign
A cool declaration, upon my soul
The next time you invite yourself to a man's house, Miss Halcombe, I recommend you not to repay his hospitality by taking his wife's side against him in a matter that doesn't concern you
Oh, Marian
If my mother had been alive, she could have done no more for me
Come back and sign
Shall I
I will, if you tell me
No
The right and the truth are with you -- sign nothing, unless you have read it first
Come back and sign
Percival
I remember that I am in the presence of ladies. Be good enough, if you please, to remember it too
Be good enough, if you please, to remember it too
I don't want to offend anybody
but my wife's obstinacy is enough to try the patience of a saint. I have told her this is merely a formal document -- and what more can she want? You may say what you please, but it is no part of a woman's duty to set her husband at defiance. Once more, Lady Glyde, and for the last time, will you sign or will you not
I will sign with pleasure
if you will only treat me as a responsible being. I care little what sacrifice is required of me, if it will affect no one else, and lead to no ill results
Who talked of a sacrifice being required of You
I only meant
that I would refuse no concession which I could honourably make. If I have a scruple about signing my name to an engagement of which I know nothing, why should you visit it on me so severely? It is rather hard, I think, to treat Count Fosco's scruples so much more indulgently than you have treated mine
Scruples
YOUR scruples! It is rather late in the day for you to be scrupulous. I should have thought you had got over all weakness of that sort, when you made a virtue of necessity by marrying me
You idiot
You positively refuse, then, to give me your signature
After what you have just said to me
I refuse my signature until I have read every line in that parchment from the first word to the last. Come away, Marian, we have remained here long enough
One moment
one moment, Lady Glyde, I implore you
Don't make an enemy of the Count
Whatever you do, don't make an enemy of the Count
Lady Glyde
pray pardon me if I venture to offer one suggestion, and pray believe that I speak out of my profound respect and my friendly regard for the mistress of this house
Is it absolutely necessary
that this thing here, under your elbow, should be signed to-day
It is necessary to my plans and wishes
But that consideration, as you may have noticed, has no influence with Lady Glyde
Answer my plain question plainly. Can the business of the signature be put off till to-morrow -- Yes or No
Yes, if you will have it so
Then what are you wasting your time for here? Let the signature wait till to-morrow -- let it wait till you come back
You are taking a tone with me that I don't like
A tone I won't bear from any man
I am advising you for your good
Give yourself time -- give Lady Glyde time. Have you forgotten that your dog-cart is waiting at the door? My tone surprises you -- ha? I dare say it does -- it is the tone of a man who can keep his temper. How many doses of good advice have I given you in my time? More than you can count. Have I ever been wrong? I defy you to quote me an instance of it. Go! take your drive. The matter of the signature can wait till to- morrow. Let it wait -- and renew it when you come back
It is easy to argue me down
when I have no time to answer you. I will take your advice, Fosco -- not because I want it, or believe in it, but because I can't stop here any longer
If you don't give me your signature when I come back to-morrow
Remember to-morrow
You have just seen Percival at his worst, Miss Halcombe
As his old friend, I am sorry for him and ashamed of him. As his old friend, I promise you that he shall not break out to- morrow in the same disgraceful manner in which he has broken out to-day
Where is he going to, Marian
Every fresh thing he does seems to terrify me about the future. Have you any suspicions
How should I know his secrets
I wonder if the housekeeper knows
Certainly not
She must be quite as ignorant as we are
Did you not hear from the housekeeper that there was a report of Anne Catherick having been seen in this neighbourhood? Don't you think he may have gone away to look for her
I would rather compose myself, Laura, by not thinking about it at all, and after what has happened, you had better follow my example. Come into my room, and rest and quiet yourself a little
I am ashamed to look at you, Marian
after what you submitted to downstairs, for my sake. Oh, my own love, I am almost heartbroken when I think of it! But I will try to make it up to you -- I will indeed
Hush! hush
don't talk so. What is the trifling mortification of my pride compared to the dreadful sacrifice of your happiness
You heard what he said to me
You heard the words -- but you don't know what they meant -- you don't know why I threw down the pen and turned my back on him
I have kept many things from your knowledge, Marian, for fear of distressing you, and making you unhappy at the outset of our new lives. You don't know how he has used me. And yet you ought to know, for you saw how he used me to-day. You heard him sneer at my presuming to be scrupulous -- you heard him say I had made a virtue of necessity in marrying him
I can't tell you about it now
I shall burst out crying if I tell you now -- later, Marian, when I am more sure of myself. My poor head aches, darling -- aches, aches, aches. Where is your smelling-bottle? Let me talk to you about yourself. I wish I had given him my signature, for your sake. Shall I give it to him to-morrow? I would rather compromise myself than compromise you. After your taking my part against him, he will lay all the blame on you if I refuse again. What shall we do? Oh, for a friend to help us and advise us!-- a friend we could really trust
We must do what we can to help ourselves
Let us try to talk it over calmly, Laura -- let us do all in our power to decide for the best
How are we to get the answer in time
Your letter will not be delivered in London before to-morrow morning, and the post will not bring the reply here till the morning after
In case Sir Percival should come back to-morrow before two o'clock
the wisest plan for you to adopt is to be out in the grounds all the morning with your book or your work, and not to appear at the house till the messenger has had time to arrive with the letter. I will wait here for him all the morning, to guard against any misadventures or mistakes. By following this arrangement I hope and believe we shall avoid being taken by surprise. Let us go down to the drawing-room now. We may excite suspicion if we remain shut up together too long
Suspicion
Whose suspicion can we excite, now that Sir Percival has left the house? Do you mean Count Fosco
Perhaps I do, Laura
You are beginning to dislike him as much as I do, Marian
No, not to dislike him. Dislike is always more or less associated with contempt -- I can see nothing in the Count to despise
You are not afraid of him, are you
Perhaps I am -- a little
Afraid of him, after his interference in our favour to-day
Yes. I am more afraid of his interference than I am of Sir Percival's violence. Remember what I said to you in the library. Whatever you do, Laura, don't make an enemy of the Count
The Count will probably want a fresh supply of cigarettes
and nobody can make them to his satisfaction but myself
Which way shall we go
Towards the lake, Marian, if you like
You seem unaccountably fond, Laura, of that dismal lake
No, not of the lake but of the scenery about it. The sand and heath and the fir-trees are the only objects I can discover, in all this large place, to remind me of Limmeridge. But we will walk in some other direction if you prefer it
I have no favourite walks at Blackwater Park, my love. One is the same as another to me. Let us go to the lake -- we may find it cooler in the open space than we find it here
It is very desolate and gloomy
But we can be more alone here than anywhere else
I promised, Marian, to tell you the truth about my married life, instead of leaving you any longer to guess it for yourself
That secret is the first I have ever had from you, love, and I am determined it shall be the last. I was silent, as you know, for your sake -- and perhaps a little for my own sake as well. It is very hard for a woman to confess that the man to whom she has given her whole life is the man of all others who cares least for the gift. If you were married yourself, Marian -- and especially if you were happily married -- you would feel for me as no single woman CAN feel, however kind and true she may be
How often
I have heard you laughing over what you used to call your 'poverty!' how often you have made me mock- speeches of congratulation on my wealth! Oh, Marian, never laugh again. Thank God for your poverty -- it has made you your own mistress, and has saved you from the lot that has fallen on ME
You shall not be distressed
by hearing how soon my disappointments and my trials began -- or even by knowing what they were. It is bad enough to have them on my memory. If I tell you how he received the first and last attempt at remonstrance that I ever made, you will know how he has always treated me, as well as if I had described it in so many words. It was one day at Rome when we had ridden out together to the tomb of Cecilia Metella. The sky was calm and lovely, and the grand old ruin looked beautiful, and the remembrance that a husband's love had raised it in the old time to a wife's memory, made me feel more tenderly and more anxiously towards my husband than I had ever felt yet. 'Would you build such a tomb for ME, Percival?' I asked him. 'You said you loved me dearly before we were married, and yet, since that time ----' I could get no farther. Marian! he was not even looking at me! I pulled down my veil, thinking it best not to let him see that the tears were in my eyes. I fancied he had not paid any attention to me, but he had. He said, 'Come away,' and laughed to himself as he helped me on to my horse. He mounted his own horse and laughed again as we rode away. 'If I do build you a tomb,' he said, 'it will be done with your own money. I wonder whether Cecilia Metella had a fortune and paid for hers.' I made no reply -- how could I, when I was crying behind my veil?' Ah, you light-complexioned women are all sulky,' he said. 'What do you want? compliments and soft speeches? Well! I'm in a good humour this morning. Consider the compliments paid and the speeches said.' Men little know when they say hard things to us how well we remember them, and how much harm they do us. It would have been better for me if I had gone on crying, but his contempt dried up my tears and hardened my heart. From that time, Marian, I never checked myself again in thinking of Walter Hartright. I let the memory of those happy days, when we were so fond of each other in secret, come back and comfort me. What else had I to look to for consolation? If we had been together you would have helped me to better things. I know it was wrong, darling, but tell me if I was wrong without any excuse
Don't ask me
Have I suffered as you have suffered? What right have I to decide
I used to think of him
I used to think of him when Percival left me alone at night to go among the Opera people. I used to fancy what I might have been if it had pleased God to bless me with poverty, and if I had been his wife. I used to see myself in my neat cheap gown, sitting at home and waiting for him while he was earning our bread -- sitting at home and working for him and loving him all the better because I had to work for him -- seeing him come in tired and taking off his hat and coat for him, and, Marian, pleasing him with little dishes at dinner that I had learnt to make for his sake. Oh! I hope he is never lonely enough and sad enough to think of me and see me as I have thought of HIM and see HIM
Don't speak of Walter any more
Oh, Laura, spare us both the wretchedness of talking of him now
I would rather be silent about him for ever
than cause you a moment's pain
It is in your interests
it is for your sake that I speak. If your husband heard you
It would not surprise him if he did hear me
Not surprise him
Laura! remember what you are saying -- you frighten me
It is true
it is what I wanted to tell you to-day, when we were talking in your room. My only secret when I opened my heart to him at Limmeridge was a harmless secret, Marian -- you said so yourself. The name was all I kept from him, and he has discovered it
It happened at Rome
We were at a little party given to the English by some friends of Sir Percival's -- Mr. and Mrs. Markland. Mrs. Markland had the reputation of sketching very beautifully, and some of the guests prevailed on her to show us her drawings. We all admired them, but something I said attracted her attention particularly to me. 'Surely you draw yourself?' she asked. 'I used to draw a little once,' I answered, 'but I have given it up.' 'If you have once drawn,' she said, 'you may take to it again one of these days, and if you do, I wish you would let me recommend you a master.' I said nothing -- you know why, Marian -- and tried to change the conversation. But Mrs. Markland persisted. 'I have had all sorts of teachers,' she went on, 'but the best of all, the most intelligent and the most attentive, was a Mr. Hartright. If you ever take up your drawing again, do try him as a master. He is a young man -- modest and gentlemanlike -- I am sure you will like him. 'Think of those words being spoken to me publicly, in the presence of strangers -- strangers who had been invited to meet the bride and bridegroom! I did all I could to control myself -- I said nothing, and looked down close at the drawings. When I ventured to raise my head again, my eyes and my husband's eyes met, and I knew, by his look, that my face had betrayed me. 'We will see about Mr. Hartright,' he said, looking at me all the time, 'when we get back to England. I agree with you, Mrs. Markland -- I think Lady Glyde is sure to like him.' He laid an emphasis on the last words which made my cheeks burn, and set my heart beating as if it would stifle me. Nothing more was said. We came away early. He was silent in the carriage driving back to the hotel. He helped me out, and followed me upstairs as usual. But the moment we were in the drawing-room, he locked the door, pushed me down into a chair, and stood over me with his hands on my shoulders. 'Ever since that morning when you made your audacious confession to me at Limmeridge,' he said, 'I have wanted to find out the man, and I found him in your face to-night. Your drawing-master was the man, and his name is Hartright. You shall repent it, and he shall repent it, to the last hour of your lives. Now go to bed and dream of him if you like, with the marks of my horsewhip on his shoulders.' Whenever he is angry with me now he refers to what I acknowledged to him in your presence with a sneer or a threat. I have no power to prevent him from putting his own horrible construction on the confidence I placed in him. I have no influence to make him believe me, or to keep him silent. You looked surprised to-day when you heard him tell me that I had made a virtue of necessity in marrying him. You will not be surprised again when you hear him repeat it, the next time he is out of temper ---- Oh, Marian! don't! don't! you hurt me
It is late
It will be dark in the plantation
Marian! it will be dark in the plantation
Give me a minute longer
a minute, to get better in
We are far from the house
Let us go back
Marian
Do you see nothing? Look
Where
Down there, below us
Was it a man or a woman
I am not certain
Which do you think
It looked like a woman
I was afraid it was a man in a long cloak
It may be a man. In this dim light it is not possible to be certain
Wait, Marian! I'm frightened -- I don't see the path. Suppose the figure should follow us
Not at all likely, Laura. There is really nothing to be alarmed about. The shores of the lake are not far from the village, and they are free to any one to walk on by day or night. It is only wonderful we have seen no living creature there before
Hush
I hear something behind us
Dead leaves
or a twig blown off the trees
It is summer time, Marian, and there is not a breath of wind. Listen
No matter who it is, or what it is
let us walk on. In another minute, if there is anything to alarm us, we shall be near enough to the house to be heard
Who's there
Who's there
I am half dead with fear
Who could it have been
We will try to guess to-morrow
In the meantime say nothing to any one of what we have heard and seen
Why not
Because silence is safe, and we have need of safety in this house
Pray don't let me disturb you
I have only come here to get a book
All unfortunate men of my size suffer from the heat
I wish I could change places with my excellent wife. She is as cool at this moment as a fish in the pond outside
I am never warm, Miss Halcombe
Have you and Lady Glyde been out this evening
Yes, we went out to get a little air
May I ask in what direction
In the direction of the lake -- as far as the boat-house
Aha? As far as the boat-house
No more adventures, I suppose, this evening
No more discoveries, like your discovery of the wounded dog
No
no adventures -- no discoveries
Count, you are keeping Miss Halcombe standing
Have you been suffering much from the heat downstairs
No, miss
we have not felt it to speak of
You have been out in the woods then, I suppose
Some of us thought of going, miss. But cook said she should take her chair into the cool court-yard, outside the kitchen door, and on second thoughts, all the rest of us took our chairs out there too
Is Mrs. Michelson gone to bed yet
I should think not, miss
Mrs. Michelson is more likely to be getting up just now than going to bed
Why? What do you mean? Has Mrs. Michelson been taking to her bed in the daytime
No, miss, not exactly, but the next thing to it. She's been asleep all the evening on the sofa in her own room
Come out on my little finger, my pret-pret-pretties! Come out, and hop upstairs! One, two, three -- and up! Three, two, one -- and down! One, two, three -- twit-twit-twit-tweet
I beg your pardon
but am I right in supposing that you are going to Blackwater Park
Yes, ma'am
With a letter for any one
With a letter for Miss Halcombe, ma'am
You may give me the letter. I am Miss Halcombe
Will you be good enough to say that I understand the letter, and that I am very much obliged
There is no other reply necessary at present
Are you going back to the house, Miss Halcombe
I am going back too
Pray allow me the pleasure of accompanying you. Will you take my arm? You look surprised at seeing me
You look surprised at seeing me
I thought, Count, I heard you with your birds in the breakfast- room
Surely. But my little feathered children, dear lady, are only too like other children. They have their days of perversity, and this morning was one of them. My wife came in as I was putting them back in their cage, and said she had left you going out alone for a walk. You told her so, did you not
Certainly
Well, Miss Halcombe, the pleasure of accompanying you was too great a temptation for me to resist. At my age there is no harm in confessing so much as that, is there? I seized my hat, and set off to offer myself as your escort. Even so fat an old man as Fosco is surely better than no escort at all? I took the wrong path -- I came back in despair, and here I am, arrived (may I say it?) at the height of my wishes
Oh! here are two of you come back
What is the meaning of the house being deserted in this way? Where is Lady Glyde
Brooch or no brooch
I recommend her not to forget her appointment in the library this afternoon. I shall expect to see her in half an hour
Tell me, Percival
have you had a pleasant drive? And has your pretty shining Brown Molly come back at all tired
Brown Molly be hanged -- and the drive too! I want my lunch
And I want five minutes' talk with you, Percival, first
Five minutes' talk, my friend, here on the grass
What about
About business that very much concerns you
If you want to badger me with any more of your infernal scruples
I for one won't hear them. I want my lunch
Come out here and speak to me
business
A thousand pardons, Miss Halcombe
I only venture to disturb you because I am the bearer of good news. Percival -- who is capricious in everything, as you know -- has seen fit to alter his mind at the last moment, and the business of the signature is put off for the present. A great relief to all of us, Miss Halcombe, as I see with pleasure in your face. Pray present my best respects and felicitations, when you mention this pleasant change of circumstances to Lady Glyde
Come back, come back
Remember your promise to HER and to ME. Come back to us before the Pestilence reaches you and lays you dead like the rest
Wait
I shall come back. The night when I met the lost Woman on the highway was the night which set my life apart to be the instrument of a Design that is yet unseen. Here, lost in the wilderness, or there, welcomed back in the land of my birth, I am still walking on the dark road which leads me, and you, and the sister of your love and mine, to the unknown Retribution and the inevitable End. Wait and look. The Pestilence which touches the rest will pass ME
Another step
on the dark road. Wait and look. The arrows that strike the rest will spare me
Another step on the journey. Wait and look. The Sea which drowns the rest will spare me
Darker and darker
farther and farther yet. Death takes the good, the beautiful, and the young -- and spares me. The Pestilence that wastes, the Arrow that strikes, the Sea that drowns, the Grave that closes over Love and Hope, are steps of my journey, and take me nearer and nearer to the End
What has happened
What has frightened you
Marian!-- the figure at the lake -- the footsteps last night -- I've just seen her! I've just spoken to her
Who, for Heaven's sake
Anne Catherick
I have seen Anne Catherick! I have spoken to Anne Catherick
Oh, Marian, I have such things to tell you! Come away -- we may be interrupted here -- come at once into my room
Anne Catherick
Anne Catherick
Look
look here
Where did you find your brooch
SHE found it, Marian
Where
On the floor of the boat-house. Oh, how shall I begin -- how shall I tell you about it! She talked to me so strangely -- she looked so fearfully ill -- she left me so suddenly
Speak low
The window is open, and the garden path runs beneath it. Begin at the beginning, Laura. Tell me, word for word, what passed between that woman and you
Shall I close the window
No, only speak low -- only remember that Anne Catherick is a dangerous subject under your husband's roof. Where did you first see her
At the boat-house, Marian. I went out, as you know, to find my brooch, and I walked along the path through the plantation, looking down on the ground carefully at every step. In that way I got on, after a long time, to the boat-house, and as soon as I was inside it, I went on my knees to hunt over the floor. I was still searching with my back to the doorway, when I heard a soft, strange voice behind me say, 'Miss Fairlie
Miss Fairlie
Yes, my old name -- the dear, familiar name that I thought I had parted from for ever. I started up -- not frightened, the voice was too kind and gentle to frighten anybody -- but very much surprised. There, looking at me from the doorway, stood a woman, whose face I never remembered to have seen before
How was she dressed
She had a neat, pretty white gown on, and over it a poor worn thin dark shawl. Her bonnet was of brown straw, as poor and worn as the shawl. I was struck by the difference between her gown and the rest of her dress, and she saw that I noticed it. 'Don't look at my bonnet and shawl,' she said, speaking in a quick, breathless, sudden way; 'if I mustn't wear white, I don't care what I wear. Look at my gown as much as you please -- I'm not ashamed of that.' Very strange, was it not? Before I could say anything to soothe her, she held out one of her hands, and I saw my brooch in it. I was so pleased and so grateful, that I went quite close to her to say what I really felt. 'Are you thankful enough to do me one little kindness?' she asked. 'Yes, indeed,' I answered, 'any kindness in my power I shall be glad to show you.' 'Then let me pin your brooch on for you, now I have found it.' Her request was so unexpected, Marian, and she made it with such extraordinary eagerness, that I drew back a step or two, not well knowing what to do. 'Ah!' she said, 'your mother would have let me pin on the brooch.' There was something in her voice and her look, as well as in her mentioning my mother in that reproachful manner, which made me ashamed of my distrust. I took her hand with the brooch in it, and put it up gently on the bosom of my dress. 'You knew my mother?' I said. 'Was it very long ago? have I ever seen you before?' Her hands were busy fastening the brooch: she stopped and pressed them against my breast. 'You don't remember a fine spring day at Limmeridge,' she said, 'and your mother walking down the path that led to the school, with a little girl on each side of her? I have had nothing else to think of since, and I remember it. You were one of the little girls, and I was the other. Pretty, clever Miss Fairlie, and poor dazed Anne Catherick were nearer to each other then than they are now
Did you remember her, Laura, when she told you her name
Yes, I remembered your asking me about Anne Catherick at Limmeridge, and your saying that she had once been considered like me
What reminded you of that, Laura
SHE reminded me. While I was looking at her, while she was very close to me, it came over my mind suddenly that we were like each other! Her face was pale and thin and weary -- but the sight of it startled me, as if it had been the sight of my own face in the glass after a long illness. The discovery -- I don't know why -- gave me such a shock, that I was perfectly incapable of speaking to her for the moment
Did she seem hurt by your silence
I am afraid she was hurt by it. 'You have not got your mother's face,' she said, 'or your mother's heart. Your mother's face was dark, and your mother's heart, Miss Fairlie, was the heart of an angel.' 'I am sure I feel kindly towards you,' I said, 'though I may not be able to express it as I ought. Why do you call me Miss Fairlie?----' 'Because I love the name of Fairlie and hate the name of Glyde,' she broke out violently. I had seen nothing like madness in her before this, but I fancied I saw it now in her eyes. 'I only thought you might not know I was married,' I said, remembering the wild letter she wrote to me at Limmeridge, and trying to quiet her. She sighed bitterly, and turned away from me. 'Not know you were married?' she repeated. 'I am here BECAUSE you are married. I am here to make atonement to you, before I meet your mother in the world beyond the grave.' She drew farther and farther away from me, till she was out of the boat- house, and then she watched and listened for a little while. When she turned round to speak again, instead of coming back, she stopped where she was, looking in at me, with a hand on each side of the entrance. 'Did you see me at the lake last night?' she said. 'Did you hear me following you in the wood? I have been waiting for days together to speak to you alone -- I have left the only friend I have in the world, anxious and frightened about me -- I have risked being shut up again in the mad-house -- and all for your sake, Miss Fairlie, all for your sake.' Her words alarmed me, Marian, and yet there was something in the way she spoke that made me pity her with all my heart. I am sure my pity must have been sincere, for it made me bold enough to ask the poor creature to come in, and sit down in the boat-house, by my side
Did she do so
No. She shook her head, and told me she must stop where she was, to watch and listen, and see that no third person surprised us. And from first to last, there she waited at the entrance, with a hand on each side of it, sometimes bending in suddenly to speak to me, sometimes drawing back suddenly to look about her. 'I was here yesterday,' she said, 'before it came dark, and I heard you, and the lady with you, talking together. I heard you tell her about your husband. I heard you say you had no influence to make him believe you, and no influence to keep him silent. Ah! I knew what those words meant -- my conscience told me while I was listening. Why did I ever let you marry him! Oh, my fear -- my mad, miserable, wicked fear!--'She covered up her face in her poor worn shawl, and moaned and murmured to herself behind it. I began to be afraid she might break out into some terrible despair which neither she nor I could master. 'Try to quiet yourself,' I said; 'try to tell me how you might have prevented my marriage.' She took the shawl from her face, and looked at me vacantly. 'I ought to have had heart enough to stop at Limmeridge,' she answered. 'I ought never to have let the news of his coming there frighten me away. I ought to have warned you and saved you before it was too late. Why did I only have courage enough to write you that letter? Why did I only do harm, when I wanted and meant to do good? Oh, my fear -- my mad, miserable, wicked fear! 'She repeated those words again, and hid her face again in the end of her poor worn shawl. It was dreadful to see her, and dreadful to hear her
Surely, Laura, you asked what the fear was which she dwelt on so earnestly
Yes, I asked that
And what did she say
She asked me in return, if I should not be afraid of a man who had shut me up in a mad-house, and who would shut me up again, if he could? I said, 'Are you afraid still? Surely you would not be here if you were afraid now?' 'No,' she said, 'I am not afraid now.' I asked why not. She suddenly bent forward into the boat- house, and said, 'Can't you guess why?' I shook my head. 'Look at me,' she went on. I told her I was grieved to see that she looked very sorrowful and very ill. She smiled for the first time. 'Ill?' she repeated; 'I'm dying. You know why I'm not afraid of him now. Do you think I shall meet your mother in heaven? Will she forgive me if I do?' I was so shocked and so startled, that I could make no reply. 'I have been thinking of it,' she went on, 'all the time I have been in hiding from your husband, all the time I lay ill. My thoughts have driven me here -- I want to make atonement -- I want to undo all I can of the harm I once did.' I begged her as earnestly as I could to tell me what she meant. She still looked at me with fixed vacant eyes. 'SHALL I undo the harm?' she said to herself doubtfully. 'You have friends to take your part. If YOU know his Secret, he will be afraid of you, he won't dare use you as he used me. He must treat you mercifully for his own sake, if he is afraid of you and your friends. And if he treats you mercifully, and if I can say it was my doing ----' I listened eagerly for more, but she stopped at those words
You tried to make her go on
I tried, but she only drew herself away from me again, and leaned her face and arms against the side of the boat-house. 'Oh!' I heard her say, with a dreadful, distracted tenderness in her voice, 'oh! if I could only be buried with your mother! If I could only wake at her side, when the angel's trumpet sounds, and the graves give up their dead at the resurrection!' -- Marian! I trembled from head to foot -- it was horrible to hear her. 'But there is no hope of that,' she said, moving a little, so as to look at me again, 'no hope for a poor stranger like me. I shall not rest under the marble cross that I washed with my own hands, and made so white and pure for her sake. Oh no! oh no! God's mercy, not man's, will take me to her, where the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest.' She spoke those words quietly and sorrowfully, with a heavy, hopeless sigh, and then waited a little. Her face was confused and troubled, she seemed to be thinking, or trying to think. 'What was it I said just now?' she asked after a while. 'When your mother is in my mind, everything else goes out of it. What was I saying? what was I saying?' I reminded the poor creature, as kindly and delicately as I could. 'Ah, yes, yes,' she said, still in a vacant, perplexed manner. 'You are helpless with your wicked husband. Yes. And I must do what I have come to do here -- I must make it up to you for having been afraid to speak out at a better time.' 'What IS it you have to tell me?' I asked. 'The Secret that your cruel husband is afraid of,' she answered. 'I once threatened him with the Secret, and frightened him. You shall threaten him with the Secret, and frighten him too.' Her face darkened, and a hard, angry stare fixed itself in her eyes. She began waving her hand at me in a vacant, unmeaning manner. 'My mother knows the Secret,' she said. 'My mother has wasted under the Secret half her lifetime. One day, when I was grown up, she said something to ME. And the next day your husband
Yes! yes! Go on. What did she tell you about your husband
She stopped again, Marian, at that point
And said no more
And listened eagerly. 'Hush!' she whispered, still waving her hand at me. 'Hush!' She moved aside out of the doorway, moved slowly and stealthily, step by step, till I lost her past the edge of the boat-house
Surely you followed her
Yes, my anxiety made me bold enough to rise and follow her. Just as I reached the entrance, she appeared again suddenly, round the side of the boat-house. 'The Secret,' I whispered to her --'wait and tell me the Secret!' She caught hold of my arm, and looked at me with wild frightened eyes. 'Not now,' she said, 'we are not alone -- we are watched. Come here to-morrow at this time -- by yourself -- mind -- by yourself.' She pushed me roughly into the boat- house again, and I saw her no more
Oh, Laura, Laura, another chance lost! If I had only been near you she should not have escaped us. On which side did you lose sight of her
On the left side, where the ground sinks and the wood is thickest
Did you run out again? did you call after her
How could I? I was too terrified to move or speak
But when you DID move -- when you came out
I ran back here, to tell you what had happened
Did you see any one, or hear any one, in the plantation
No, it seemed to be all still and quiet when I passed through it
Are you quite sure you have told me everything that passed? Every word that was said
I think so
My powers of memory, Marian, are not like yours. But I was so strongly impressed, so deeply interested, that nothing of any importance can possibly have escaped me
My dear Laura, the merest trifles are of importance where Anne Catherick is concerned. Think again. Did no chance reference escape her as to the place in which she is living at the present time
None that I can remember
Did she not mention a companion and friend -- a woman named Mrs. Clements
Oh yes! yes! I forgot that. She told me Mrs. Clements wanted sadly to go with her to the lake and take care of her, and begged and prayed that she would not venture into this neighbourhood alone
Was that all she said about Mrs. Clements
Yes, that was all
She told you nothing about the place in which she took refuge after leaving Todd's Corner
Nothing -- I am quite sure
Nor where she has lived since? Nor what her illness had been
No, Marian, not a word. Tell me, pray tell me, what you think about it. I don't know what to think, or what to do next
You must do this, my love: You must carefully keep the appointment at the boat-house to-morrow. It is impossible to say what interests may not depend on your seeing that woman again. You shall not be left to yourself a second time. I will follow you at a safe distance. Nobody shall see me, but I will keep within hearing of your voice, if anything happens. Anne Catherick has escaped Walter Hartright, and has escaped you. Whatever happens, she shall not escape ME
You believe
in this secret that my husband is afraid of? Suppose, Marian, it should only exist after all in Anne Catherick's fancy? Suppose she only wanted to see me and to speak to me, for the sake of old remembrances? Her manner was so strange -- I almost doubted her. Would you trust her in other things
I trust nothing, Laura, but my own observation of your husband's conduct. I judge Anne Catherick's words by his actions, and I believe there is a secret
You may make your mind easy on that subject
For the present, at least, neither your resolution nor mine will be exposed to any further trial. Sir Percival has altered his plans -- the business of the signature is put off
Put off
Who told you so
My authority is Count Fosco. I believe it is to his interference that we are indebted for your husband's sudden change of purpose
It seems impossible, Marian. If the object of my signing was, as we suppose, to obtain money for Sir Percival that he urgently wanted, how can the matter be put off
I think, Laura, we have the means at hand of setting that doubt at rest. Have you forgotten the conversation that I heard between Sir Percival and the lawyer as they were crossing the hall
No, but I don't remember
I do. There were two alternatives proposed. One was to obtain your signature to the parchment. The other was to gain time by giving bills at three months. The last resource is evidently the resource now adopted, and we may fairly hope to be relieved from our share in Sir Percival's embarrassments for some time to come
Oh, Marian, it sounds too good to be true
Does it, my love? You complimented me on my ready memory not long since, but you seem to doubt it now. I will get my journal, and you shall see if I am right or wrong
Your health and happiness, my angel
Good Percival
so sweet as to play to him
Surely you like this modest, trembling English twilight
Ah! I love it. I feel my inborn admiration of all that is noble, and great, and good, purified by the breath of heaven on an evening like this. Nature has such imperishable charms, such inextinguishable tenderness for me!-- I am an old, fat man -- talk which would become your lips, Miss Halcombe, sounds like a derision and a mockery on mine. It is hard to be laughed at in my moments of sentiment, as if my soul was like myself, old and overgrown. Observe, dear lady, what a light is dying on the trees! Does it penetrate your heart, as it penetrates mine
Bah
I make an old fool of myself, and only weary you all! Let us shut up the window in our bosoms and get back to the matter-of-fact world. Percival! I sanction the admission of the lamps. Lady Glyde -- Miss Halcombe -- Eleanor, my good wife -- which of you will indulge me with a game at dominoes
Listen
There will be a change to-morrow
A taste for sweets
is the innocent taste of women and children. I love to share it with them -- it is another bond, dear ladies, between you and me
Laura
Do you know
whether Lady Glyde has come in from her walk or not
My lady came in a little while ago with Sir Percival
I am afraid, Miss Halcombe, something very distressing has happened
You don't mean an accident
No, no -- thank God, no accident. But my lady ran up-stairs to her own room in tears, and Sir Percival has ordered me to give Fanny warning to leave in an hour's time
Where is Fanny
In my room, Miss Halcombe. The young woman is quite overcome, and I told her to sit down and try to recover herself
Why do you stand there
Don't you see that I want to come in
Ah, but you mustn't come in
How dare you talk to me in that way? Stand back instantly
Master's orders
No -- a thousand times over, no
Am I to understand, Sir Percival, that your wife's room is a prison, and that your housemaid is the gaoler who keeps it
Yes, that is what you are to understand
Take care my gaoler hasn't got double duty to do -- take care your room is not a prison too
Take YOU care how you treat your wife, and how you threaten ME
There are laws in England to protect women from cruelty and outrage. If you hurt a hair of Laura's head, if you dare to interfere with my freedom, come what may, to those laws I will appeal
What did I tell you
What do you say now
What I said before
No
Favour me with your attention for one moment
I have to thank you, Sir Percival, for your hospitality, and to decline taking advantage of it any longer. I remain in no house in which ladies are treated as your wife and Miss Halcombe have been treated here to-day
She is sublime
I am at your service, Eleanor
And at Miss Halcombe's service, if she will honour me by accepting all the assistance I can offer her
Damn it! what do you mean
At other times I mean what I say, but at this time I mean what my wife says
We have changed places, Percival, for once, and Madame Fosco's opinion is -- mine
Have your own way
Have your own way -- and see what comes of it
He has gone away very suddenly
What does it mean
It means that you and I together have brought the worst-tempered man in all England to his senses
It means, Miss Halcombe, that Lady Glyde is relieved from a gross indignity, and you from the repetition of an unpardonable insult. Suffer me to express my admiration of your conduct and your courage at a very trying moment
Sincere admiration
Sincere admiration
Miss Halcombe
I am happy to inform you that Lady Glyde is mistress again in her own house. I thought it might be more agreeable to you to hear of this change for the better from me than from Sir Percival, and I have therefore expressly returned to mention it
Admirable delicacy
What are you waiting there for
I want to speak to you
And I want to think a little by myself
Wait till later, Percival, wait till later
How did you get here
Who gave you leave? Not Sir Percival
The Count, of course
Whose influence in the house
Don't speak of him
The Count is the vilest creature breathing! The Count is a miserable Spy
You dropped this downstairs, Miss Halcombe
and I thought I could bring it to you, as I was passing by to my own room
Oh, Laura! Laura! We shall both rue the day when you called the Count a Spy
You would have called him so yourself, Marian, if you had known what I know. Anne Catherick was right. There was a third person watching us in the plantation yesterday, and that third person
Are you sure it was the Count
I am absolutely certain. He was Sir Percival's spy -- he was Sir Percival's informer -- he set Sir Percival watching and waiting, all the morning through, for Anne Catherick and for me
Is Anne found? Did you see her at the lake
No. She has saved herself by keeping away from the place. When I got to the boat-house no one was there
Yes? Yes
I went in and sat waiting for a few minutes. But my restlessness made me get up again, to walk about a little. As I passed out I saw some marks on the sand, close under the front of the boat- house. I stooped down to examine them, and discovered a word written in large letters on the sand. The word was -- LOOK
And you scraped away the sand, and dug a hollow place in it
How do you know that, Marian
I saw the hollow place myself when I followed you to the boat- house. Go on -- go on
Yes, I scraped away the sand on the surface, and in a little while I came to a strip of paper hidden beneath, which had writing on it. The writing was signed with Anne Catherick's initials
Where is it
Sir Percival has taken it from me
Can you remember what the writing was? Do you think you can repeat it to me
In substance I can, Marian. It was very short. You would have remembered it, word for word
Try to tell me what the substance was before we go any further
I was seen with you, yesterday, by a tall, stout old man, and had to run to save myself. He was not quick enough on his feet to follow me, and he lost me among the trees. I dare not risk coming back here to-day at the same time. I write this, and hide it in the sand, at six in the morning, to tell you so. When we speak next of your wicked husband's Secret we must speak safely, or not at all. Try to have patience. I promise you shall see me again and that soon.-- A. C
How came you to lose possession of the letter
What did you do with it when you found it in the sand
After reading it once through
I took it into the boat-house with me to sit down and look over it a second time. While I was reading a shadow fell across the paper. I looked up, and saw Sir Percival standing in the doorway watching me
Did you try to hide the letter
I tried, but he stopped me. 'You needn't trouble to hide that,' he said. 'I happen to have read it.' I could only look at him helplessly -- I could say nothing. 'You understand?' he went on; 'I have read it. I dug it up out of the sand two hours since, and buried it again, and wrote the word above it again, and left it ready to your hands. You can't lie yourself out of the scrape now. You saw Anne Catherick in secret yesterday, and you have got her letter in your hand at this moment. I have not caught HER yet, but I have caught YOU. Give me the letter.' He stepped close up to me -- I was alone with him, Marian -- what could I do?-- I gave him the letter
What did he say when you gave it to him
At first he said nothing. He took me by the arm, and led me out of the boat-house, and looked about him on all sides, as if he was afraid of our being seen or heard. Then he clasped his hand fast round my arm, and whispered to me, 'What did Anne Catherick say to you yesterday? I insist on hearing every word, from first to last
Did you tell him
I was alone with him, Marian -- his cruel hand was bruising my arm -- what could I do
Is the mark on your arm still? Let me see it
Why do you want to see it
I want to see it, Laura, because our endurance must end, and our resistance must begin to-day. That mark is a weapon to strike him with. Let me see it now -- I may have to swear to it at some future time
Oh, Marian, don't look so -- don't talk so! It doesn't hurt me now
Let me see it
Don't think too seriously of it, Marian
It doesn't hurt me now
I will try to think quietly of it, my love, for your sake.-- Well! well! And you told him all that Anne Catherick had said to you -- all that you told me
Yes, all. He insisted on it -- I was alone with him -- I could conceal nothing
Did he say anything when you had done
He looked at me, and laughed to himself in a mocking, bitter way. 'I mean to have the rest out of you,' he said, 'do you hear?-- the rest.' I declared to him solemnly that I had told him everything I knew. 'Not you,' he answered, 'you know more than you choose to tell. Won't you tell it? You shall! I'll wring it out of you at home if I can't wring it out of you here.' He led me away by a strange path through the plantation -- a path where there was no hope of our meeting you -- and he spoke no more till we came within sight of the house. Then he stopped again, and said, 'Will you take a second chance, if I give it to you? Will you think better of it, and tell me the rest?' I could only repeat the same words I had spoken before. He cursed my obstinacy, and went on, and took me with him to the house. 'You can't deceive me,' he said, 'you know more than you choose to tell. I'll have your secret out of you, and I'll have it out of that sister of yours as well. There shall be no more plotting and whispering between you. Neither you nor she shall see each other again till you have confessed the truth. I'll have you watched morning, noon, and night, till you confess the truth.' He was deaf to everything I could say. He took me straight upstairs into my own room. Fanny was sitting there, doing some work for me, and he instantly ordered her out. 'I'll take good care YOU'RE not mixed up in the conspiracy,' he said. 'You shall leave this house to-day. If your mistress wants a maid, she shall have one of my choosing.' He pushed me into the room, and locked the door on me. He set that senseless woman to watch me outside, Marian! He looked and spoke like a madman. You may hardly understand it -- he did indeed
I do understand it, Laura. He is mad -- mad with the terrors of a guilty conscience. Every word you have said makes me positively certain that when Anne Catherick left you yesterday you were on the eve of discovering a secret which might have been your vile husband's ruin, and he thinks you HAVE discovered it. Nothing you can say or do will quiet that guilty distrust, and convince his false nature of your truth. I don't say this, my love, to alarm you. I say it to open your eyes to your position, and to convince you of the urgent necessity of letting me act, as I best can, for your protection while the chance is our own. Count Fosco's interference has secured me access to you to-day, but he may withdraw that interference to-morrow. Sir Percival has already dismissed Fanny because she is a quick-witted girl, and devotedly attached to you, and has chosen a woman to take her place who cares nothing for your interests, and whose dull intelligence lowers her to the level of the watch-dog in the yard. It is impossible to say what violent measures he may take next, unless we make the most of our opportunities while we have them
What can we do, Marian? Oh, if we could only leave this house, never to see it again
Listen to me, my love, and try to think that you are not quite helpless so long as I am here with you
I will think so -- I do think so. Don't altogether forget poor Fanny in thinking of me. She wants help and comfort too
I will not forget her. I saw her before I came up here, and I have arranged to communicate with her to-night. Letters are not safe in the post-bag at Blackwater Park, and I shall have two to write to-day, in your interests, which must pass through no hands but Fanny's
What letters
I mean to write first, Laura, to Mr. Gilmore's partner, who has offered to help us in any fresh emergency. Little as I know of the law, I am certain that it can protect a woman from such treatment as that ruffian has inflicted on you to-day. I will go into no details about Anne Catherick, because I have no certain information to give. But the lawyer shall know of those bruises on your arm, and of the violence offered to you in this room -- he shall, before I rest to-night
But think of the exposure, Marian
I am calculating on the exposure. Sir Percival has more to dread from it than you have. The prospect of an exposure may bring him to terms when nothing else will
You will drive him to desperation
and increase our dangers tenfold
To Mr. Fairlie
Your uncle is your nearest male relative, and the head of the family. He must and shall interfere
Yes, yes
your uncle is a weak, selfish, worldly man, I know, but he is not Sir Percival Glyde, and he has no such friend about him as Count Fosco. I expect nothing from his kindness or his tenderness of feeling towards you or towards me, but he will do anything to pamper his own indolence, and to secure his own quiet. Let me only persuade him that his interference at this moment will save him inevitable trouble and wretchedness and responsibility hereafter, and he will bestir himself for his own sake. I know how to deal with him, Laura -- I have had some practice
If you could only prevail on him to let me go back to Limmeridge for a little while and stay there quietly with you, Marian, I could be almost as happy again as I was before I was married
Your uncle shall know the wish you have just expressed
and I will ask the lawyer's advice on the subject as well. Good may come of it -- and will come of it, I hope
Don't leave me
My desk is on that table. You can write here
I will come back again, love, in an hour or less
The worst is over for to-day. Keep yourself quiet and fear nothing
Is the key in the door, Marian? Can I lock it on the inside
Yes, here is the key. Lock the door, and open it to nobody until I come upstairs again
Still falling
I am afraid we must expect more rain
spy
May I trust to your kindness to excuse me, Madame Fosco, if I venture to speak to you on an exceedingly painful subject
When you were so good as to bring me back my handkerchief
I am very, very much afraid you must have accidentally heard Laura say something which I am unwilling to repeat, and which I will not attempt to defend. I will only venture to hope that you have not thought it of sufficient importance to be mentioned to the Count
I think it of no importance whatever
But
I have no secrets from my husband even in trifles. When he noticed just now that I looked distressed, it was my painful duty to tell him why I was distressed, and I frankly acknowledge to you, Miss Halcombe, that I HAVE told him
Let me earnestly entreat you, Madame Fosco -- let me earnestly entreat the Count -- to make some allowances for the sad position in which my sister is placed. She spoke while she was smarting under the insult and injustice inflicted on her by her husband, and she was not herself when she said those rash words. May I hope that they will be considerately and generously forgiven
Most assuredly
When Lady Glyde said those hasty words
she did me an injustice which I lament -- and forgive. Let us never return to the subject, Miss Halcombe; let us all comfortably combine to forget it from this moment
You are very kind
you relieve me inexpressibly
I beg you on my knees to say no more, Miss Halcombe -- I am truly shocked that you should have thought it necessary to say so much
Count
Your foreign forms of politeness are not understood by Englishwomen
Pardon me, my angel! The best and dearest Englishwoman in the world understands them
Has anybody disturbed you
Nobody has knocked
But I heard some one in the outer room
Was it a man or a woman
A woman. I heard the rustling of her gown
A rustling like silk
Yes, like silk
What became of the rustling of the gown when you no longer heard it in the ante-room
Did you hear it go past your wall, along the passage
Yes. I kept still and listened, and just heard it
Which way did it go
Towards your room
More difficulties
more difficulties and more dangers
No dangers
Some little difficulty, perhaps. I am thinking of the safest way of putting my two letters into Fanny's hands
You have really written them, then? Oh, Marian, run no risks -- pray, pray run no risks
No, no -- no fear. Let me see -- what o'clock is it now
Keep the key turned in the lock. Laura
and don't be afraid about me. If you hear any inquiries made, call through the door, and say that I am gone out for a walk
When shall you be back
Before dinner, without fail. Courage, my love. By this time to- morrow you will have a clear-headed, trustworthy man acting for your good. Mr. Gilmore's partner is our next best friend to Mr. Gilmore himself
Which of the horses has he taken
None of them
He went away two hours since on foot. As I understood it, his object was to make fresh inquiries about the woman named Anne Catherick. He appears to be unreasonably anxious about tracing her. Do you happen to know if she is dangerously mad, Miss Halcombe
I do not, Countess
Are you going in
Yes, I think so. I suppose it will soon be time to dress for dinner
Try to make the best of it, Fanny
Your mistress and I will stand your friends, and will take care that your character shall not suffer. Now, listen to me. I have very little time to spare, and I am going to put a great trust in your hands. I wish you to take care of these two letters. The one with the stamp on it you are to put into the post when you reach London to-morrow. The other, directed to Mr. Fairlie, you are to deliver to him yourself as soon as you get home. Keep both the letters about you and give them up to no one. They are of the last importance to your mistress's interests
There they shall stop, miss
till I have done what you tell me
Mind you are at the station in good time to-morrow morning
And when you see the housekeeper at Limmeridge give her my compliments, and say that you are in my service until Lady Glyde is able to take you back. We may meet again sooner than you think. So keep a good heart, and don't miss the seven o'clock train
Thank you, miss -- thank you kindly. It gives one courage to hear your voice again. Please to offer my duty to my lady, and say I left all the things as tidy as I could in the time. Oh, dear! dear! who will dress her for dinner to-day? It really breaks my heart, miss, to think of it
The letters are in Fanny's hands
Do you mean to join us at dinner
Oh, no, no -- not for the world
Has anything happened? Has any one disturbed you
Yes -- just now -- Sir Percival
Did he come in
No, he frightened me by a thump on the door outside. I said, 'Who's there?' 'You know,' he answered. 'Will you alter your mind, and tell me the rest? You shall! Sooner or later I'll wring it out of you. You know where Anne Catherick is at this moment.' 'Indeed, indeed,' I said, 'I don't.' 'You do!' he called back. 'I'll crush your obstinacy -- mind that!-- I'll wring it out of you!' He went away with those words -- went away, Marian, hardly five minutes ago
You are going downstairs, Marian? Come up again in the evening
Yes, yes. Don't be uneasy if I am a little late -- I must be careful not to give offence by leaving them too soon
What are you going away for
I mean YOU, Fosco
I am going away because I have had dinner enough, and wine enough
Be so kind, Percival, as to make allowances for my foreign habit of going out with the ladies, as well as coming in with them
Nonsense! Another glass of claret won't hurt you. Sit down again like an Englishman. I want half an hour's quiet talk with you over our wine
A quiet talk, Percival, with all my heart, but not now, and not over the wine. Later in the evening, if you please -- later in the evening
Civil
Civil behaviour, upon my soul, to a man in his own house
Have you any letter for the post, Miss Halcombe
No, Count, thank you. No letters to-day
La mia Carolina
The English and the Germans (he indignantly declared) were always reviling the Italians for their inability to cultivate the higher kinds of music. We were perpetually talking of our Oratorios, and they were perpetually talking of their Symphonies. Did we forget and did they forget his immortal friend and countryman, Rossini? What was Moses in Egypt but a sublime oratorio, which was acted on the stage instead of being coldly sung in a concert-room? What was the overture to Guillaume Tell but a symphony under another name? Had I heard Moses in Egypt? Would I listen to this, and this, and this, and say if anything more sublimely sacred and grand had ever been composed by mortal man
Chorus of Egyptians in the Plague of Darkness, Miss Halcombe
Prayer of Israelites, at the passage of the Red Sea. Aha! Aha! Is that sacred? is that sublime
Ah! if Percival is coming
harmony and melody are both at an end. The Muse of Music, Miss Halcombe, deserts us in dismay, and I, the fat old minstrel, exhale the rest of my enthusiasm in the open air
I am afraid, Countess, you are not quite so well as usual
The very remark I was about to make to you
You are looking pale, my dear
I am suffering from one of my bad headaches
Ah, indeed? Want of exercise, I suppose? A walk before dinner would have been just the thing for you
Come and have a smoke, Fosco
With pleasure, Percival, when the ladies have gone to bed
Excuse me, Countess, if I set you the example of retiring
The only remedy for such a headache as mine is going to bed
What's the matter
Why don't you come in and sit down
I want to see the light out of that window
What harm does the light do
It shows she is not in bed yet. She is sharp enough to suspect something, and bold enough to come downstairs and listen, if she can get the chance. Patience, Percival -- patience
Humbug! You're always talking of patience
I shall talk of something else presently. My good friend, you are on the edge of your domestic precipice, and if I let you give the women one other chance, on my sacred word of honour they will push you over it
What the devil do you mean
We will come to our explanations, Percival, when the light is out of that window, and when I have had one little look at the rooms on each side of the library, and a peep at the staircase as well
For Laura's sake
God bless her and keep her to-night
The devil take your restlessness! When do you mean to sit down
Ouf! how hot it is
We are at a serious crisis in our affairs, Percival
and if we are to decide on the future at all, we must decide secretly to-night
Crisis
It's a worse crisis than you think for, I can tell you
So I should suppose, from your behaviour for the last day or two
But wait a little. Before we advance to what I do NOT know, let us be quite certain of what I DO know. Let us first see if I am right about the time that is past, before I make any proposal to you for the time that is to come
Stop till I get the brandy and water. Have some yourself
Thank you, Percival. The cold water with pleasure, a spoon, and the basin of sugar. Eau sucree, my friend -- nothing more
Sugar-and-water for a man of your age!-- There! mix your sickly mess. You foreigners are all alike
Now listen, Percival. I will put our position plainly before you, as I understand it, and you shall say if I am right or wrong. You and I both came back to this house from the Continent with our affairs very seriously embarrassed
Cut it short! I wanted some thousands and you some hundreds, and without the money we were both in a fair way to go to the dogs together. There's the situation. Make what you can of it. Go on
Well, Percival, in your own solid English words, you wanted some thousands and I wanted some hundreds, and the only way of getting them was for you to raise the money for your own necessity (with a small margin beyond for my poor little hundreds) by the help of your wife. What did I tell you about your wife on our way to England?-- and what did I tell you again when we had come here, and when I had seen for myself the sort of woman Miss Halcombe was
How should I know? You talked nineteen to the dozen, I suppose, just as usual
I said this: Human ingenuity, my friend, has hitherto only discovered two ways in which a man can manage a woman. One way is to knock her down -- a method largely adopted by the brutal lower orders of the people, but utterly abhorrent to the refined and educated classes above them. The other way (much longer, much more difficult, but in the end not less certain) is never to accept a provocation at a woman's hands. It holds with animals, it holds with children, and it holds with women, who are nothing but children grown up. Quiet resolution is the one quality the animals, the children, and the women all fail in. If they can once shake this superior quality in their master, they get the better of HIM. If they can never succeed in disturbing it, he gets the better of THEM. I said to you, Remember that plain truth when you want your wife to help you to the money. I said, Remember it doubly and trebly in the presence of your wife's sister, Miss Halcombe. Have you remembered it? Not once in all the implications that have twisted themselves about us in this house. Every provocation that your wife and her sister could offer to you, you instantly accepted from them. Your mad temper lost the signature to the deed, lost the ready money, set Miss Halcombe writing to the lawyer for the first time
First time! Has she written again
Yes, she has written again to-day
Thank your lucky star
that you have me in the house to undo the harm as fast as you do it. Thank your lucky star that I said No when you were mad enough to talk of turning the key to-day on Miss Halcombe, as you turned it in your mischievous folly on your wife. Where are your eyes? Can you look at Miss Halcombe and not see that she has the foresight and the resolution of a man? With that woman for my friend I would snap these fingers of mine at the world. With that woman for my enemy, I, with all my brains and experience -- I, Fosco, cunning as the devil himself, as you have told me a hundred times -- I walk, in your English phrase, upon egg-shells! And this grand creature -- I drink her health in my sugar-and-water -- this grand creature, who stands in the strength of her love and her courage, firm as a rock, between us two and that poor, flimsy, pretty blonde wife of yours -- this magnificent woman, whom I admire with all my soul, though I oppose her in your interests and in mine, you drive to extremities as if she was no sharper and no bolder than the rest of her sex. Percival! Percival! you deserve to fail, and you HAVE failed
Yes, yes, bully and bluster as much as you like
the difficulty about the money is not the only difficulty. You would be for taking strong measures with the women yourself -- if you knew as much as I do
We will come to that second difficulty all in good time
You may confuse yourself, Percival, as much as you please, but you shall not confuse me. Let the question of the money be settled first. Have I convinced your obstinacy? have I shown you that your temper will not let you help yourself?-- Or must I go back, and (as you put it in your dear straightforward English) bully and bluster a little more
Pooh! It's easy enough to grumble at ME. Say what is to be done -- that's a little harder
Is it? Bah! This is what is to be done: You give up all direction in the business from to-night -- you leave it for the future in my hands only. I am talking to a Practical British man -- ha? Well, Practical, will that do for you
What do you propose if I leave it all to you
Answer me first. Is it to be in my hands or not
Say it is in your hands -- what then
A few questions, Percival, to begin with. I must wait a little yet, to let circumstances guide me, and I must know, in every possible way, what those circumstances are likely to be. There is no time to lose. I have told you already that Miss Halcombe has written to the lawyer to-day for the second time
How did you find it out? What did she say
If I told you, Percival, we should only come back at the end to where we are now. Enough that I have found it out -- and the finding has caused that trouble and anxiety which made me so inaccessible to you all through to-day. Now, to refresh my memory about your affairs -- it is some time since I talked them over with you. The money has been raised, in the absence of your wife's signature, by means of bills at three months -- raised at a cost that makes my poverty-stricken foreign hair stand on end to think of it! When the bills are due, is there really and truly no earthly way of paying them but by the help of your wife
None
What! You have no money at the bankers
A few hundreds, when I want as many thousands
Have you no other security to borrow upon
Not a shred
What have you actually got with your wife at the present moment
Nothing but the interest of her twenty thousand pounds -- barely enough to pay our daily expenses
What do you expect from your wife
Three thousand a year when her uncle dies
A fine fortune, Percival. What sort of a man is this uncle? Old
No -- neither old nor young
A good-tempered, freely-living man? Married? No -- I think my wife told me, not married
Of course not. If he was married, and had a son, Lady Glyde would not be next heir to the property. I'll tell you what he is. He's a maudlin, twaddling, selfish fool, and bores everybody who comes near him about the state of his health
Men of that sort, Percival, live long, and marry malevolently when you least expect it. I don't give you much, my friend, for your chance of the three thousand a year. Is there nothing more that comes to you from your wife
Nothing
Absolutely nothing
Absolutely nothing -- except in case of her death
Aha! in the case of her death
The rain has come at last
Well, Percival
and in the case of Lady Glyde's death, what do you get then
If she leaves no children
Which she is likely to do
Which she is not in the least likely to do
Yes
Why, then I get her twenty thousand pounds
Paid down
Paid down
More rain
Percival! do you care about your wife
Fosco! that's rather a downright question
I am a downright man, and I repeat it
Why the devil do you look at me in that way
You won't answer me? Well, then, let us say your wife dies before the summer is out
Drop it, Fosco
Let us say your wife dies
Drop it, I tell you
In that case, you would gain twenty thousand pounds, and you would lose
I should lose the chance of three thousand a year
The REMOTE chance, Percival -- the remote chance only. And you want money, at once. In your position the gain is certain -- the loss doubtful
Speak for yourself as well as for me. Some of the money I want has been borrowed for you. And if you come to gain, my wife's death would be ten thousand pounds in your wife's pocket. Sharp as you are, you seem to have conveniently forgotten Madame Fosco's legacy. Don't look at me in that way! I won't have it! What with your looks and your questions, upon my soul, you make my flesh creep
Your flesh? Does flesh mean conscience in English? speak of your wife's death as I speak of a possibility. Why not? The respectable lawyers who scribble-scrabble your deeds and your wills look the deaths of living people in the face. Do lawyers make your flesh creep? Why should I? It is my business to-night to clear up your position beyond the possibility of mistake, and I have now done it. Here is your position. If your wife lives, you pay those bills with her signature to the parchment. If your wife dies, you pay them with her death
Talk! talk
One would think, to hear you, that my wife's signature to the deed was got already
You have left the matter in my hands
and I have more than two months before me to turn round in. Say no more about it, if you please, for the present. When the bills are due, you will see for yourself if my 'talk! talk!' is worth something, or if it is not. And now, Percival, having done with the money matters for to-night, I can place my attention at your disposal, if you wish to consult me on that second difficulty which has mixed itself up with our little embarrassments, and which has so altered you for the worse, that I hardly know you again. Speak, my friend -- and pardon me if I shock your fiery national tastes by mixing myself a second glass of sugar-and-water
It's very well to say speak
but it's not so easy to know how to begin
Shall I help you
Shall I give this private difficulty of yours a name? What if I call it -- Anne Catherick
Look here, Fosco, you and I have known each other for a long time, and if you have helped me out of one or two scrapes before this, I have done the best I could to help you in return, as far as money would go. We have made as many friendly sacrifices, on both sides, as men could, but we have had our secrets from each other, of course -- haven't we
You have had a secret from me, Percival. There is a skeleton in your cupboard here at Blackwater Park that has peeped out in these last few days at other people besides yourself
Well, suppose it has. If it doesn't concern you, you needn't be curious about it, need you
Do I look curious about it
Yes, you do
So! so! my face speaks the truth, then? What an immense foundation of good there must be in the nature of a man who arrives at my age, and whose face has not yet lost the habit of speaking the truth!-- Come, Glyde! let us be candid one with the other. This secret of yours has sought me: I have not sought it. Let us say I am curious -- do you ask me, as your old friend, to respect your secret, and to leave it, once for all, in your own keeping
Yes -- that's just what I do ask
Then my curiosity is at an end. It dies in me from this moment
Do you really mean that
What makes you doubt me
I have had some experience, Fosco, of your roundabout ways, and I am not so sure that you won't worm it out of me after all
Percival! Percival
do you know me no better than that? Has all your experience shown you nothing of my character yet? I am a man of the antique type! I am capable of the most exalted acts of virtue -- when I have the chance of performing them. It has been the misfortune of my life that I have had few chances. My conception of friendship is sublime! Is it my fault that your skeleton has peeped out at me? Why do I confess my curiosity? You poor superficial Englishman, it is to magnify my own self-control. I could draw your secret out of you, if I liked, as I draw this finger out of the palm of my hand -- you know I could! But you have appealed to my friendship, and the duties of friendship are sacred to me. See! I trample my base curiosity under my feet. My exalted sentiments lift me above it. Recognise them, Percival! imitate them, Percival! Shake hands -- I forgive you
No
When my friend has wounded me, I can pardon him without apologies. Tell me, in plain words, do you want my help
Yes, badly enough
And you can ask for it without compromising yourself
I can try, at any rate
Try, then
Well, this is how it stands:-- I told you to-day that I had done my best to find Anne Catherick, and failed
Yes, you did
Fosco! I'm a lost man if I DON'T find her
Ha! Is it so serious as that
Yes
Your face speaks the truth this time. Serious, indeed -- as serious as the money matters themselves
More serious. As true as I sit here, more serious
I showed you the letter to my wife that Anne Catherick hid in the sand
There's no boasting in that letter, Fosco -- she DOES know the Secret
Say as little as possible, Percival, in my presence, of the Secret. Does she know it from you
No, from her mother
Two women in possession of your private mind -- bad, bad, bad, my friend! One question here, before we go any farther. The motive of your shutting up the daughter in the asylum is now plain enough to me, but the manner of her escape is not quite so clear. Do you suspect the people in charge of her of closing their eyes purposely, at the instance of some enemy who could afford to make it worth their while
No, she was the best-behaved patient they had -- and, like fools, they trusted her. She's just mad enough to be shut up, and just sane enough to ruin me when she's at large -- if you understand that
I do understand it. Now, Percival, come at once to the point, and then I shall know what to do. Where is the danger of your position at the present moment
Anne Catherick is in this neighbourhood, and in communication with Lady Glyde -- there's the danger, plain enough. Who can read the letter she hid in the sand, and not see that my wife is in possession of the Secret, deny it as she may
One moment, Percival. If Lady Glyde does know the Secret, she must know also that it is a compromising secret for you. As your wife, surely it is her interest to keep it
Is it? I'm coming to that. It might be her interest if she cared two straws about me. But I happen to be an encumbrance in the way of another man. She was in love with him before she married me -- she's in love with him now -- an infernal vagabond of a drawing- master, named Hartright
My dear friend! what is there extraordinary in that? They are all in love with some other man. Who gets the first of a woman's heart? In all my experience I have never yet met with the man who was Number One. Number Two, sometimes. Number Three, Four, Five, often. Number One, never! He exists, of course -- but I have not met with him
Wait! I haven't done yet. Who do you think helped Anne Catherick to get the start, when the people from the mad-house were after her? Hartright. Who do you think saw her again in Cumberland? Hartright. Both times he spoke to her alone. Stop! don't interrupt me. The scoundrel's as sweet on my wife as she is on him. He knows the Secret, and she knows the Secret. Once let them both get together again, and it's her interest and his interest to turn their information against me
Gently, Percival -- gently! Are you insensible to the virtue of Lady Glyde
That for the virtue of Lady Glyde! I believe in nothing about her but her money. Don't you see how the case stands? She might be harmless enough by herself; but if she and that vagabond Hartright
Yes, yes, I see. Where is Mr. Hartright
Out of the country. If he means to keep a whole skin on his bones, I recommend him not to come back in a hurry
Are you sure he is out of the country
Certain. I had him watched from the time he left Cumberland to the time he sailed. Oh, I've been careful, I can tell you! Anne Catherick lived with some people at a farm-house near Limmeridge. I went there myself, after she had given me the slip, and made sure that they knew nothing. I gave her mother a form of letter to write to Miss Halcombe, exonerating me from any bad motive in putting her under restraint. I've spent, I'm afraid to say how much, in trying to trace her, and in spite of it all, she turns up here and escapes me on my own property! How do I know who else may see her, who else may speak to her? That prying scoundrel, Hartright, may come back with-out my knowing it, and may make use of her to-morrow
Not he, Percival! While I am on the spot, and while that woman is in the neighbourhood, I will answer for our laying hands on her before Mr. Hartright -- even if he does come back. I see! yes, yes, I see! The finding of Anne Catherick is the first necessity -- make your mind easy about the rest. Your wife is here, under your thumb -- Miss Halcombe is inseparable from her, and is, therefore, under your thumb also -- and Mr. Hartright is out of the country. This invisible Anne of yours is all we have to think of for the present. You have made your inquiries
Yes. I have been to her mother, I have ransacked the village -- and all to no purpose
Is her mother to be depended on
Yes
She has told your secret once
She won't tell it again
Why not? Are her own interests concerned in keeping it, as well as yours
Yes -- deeply concerned
I am glad to hear it, Percival, for your sake. Don't be discouraged, my friend. Our money matters, as I told you, leave me plenty of time to turn round in, and I may search for Anne Catherick to-morrow to better purpose than you. One last question before we go to bed
What is it
It is this. When I went to the boat-house to tell Lady Glyde that the little difficulty of her signature was put off, accident took me there in time to see a strange woman parting in a very suspicious manner from your wife. But accident did not bring me near enough to see this same woman's face plainly. I must know how to recognise our invisible Anne. What is she like
Like? Come! I'll tell you in two words. She's a sickly likeness of my wife
What
Fancy my wife, after a bad illness, with a touch of something wrong in her head -- and there is Anne Catherick for you
Are they related to each other
Not a bit of it
And yet so like
Yes, so like. What are you laughing about
What are you laughing about
Perhaps at my own fancies, my good friend. Allow me my Italian humour -- do I not come of the illustrious nation which invented the exhibition of Punch? Well, well, well, I shall know Anne Catherick when I see her -- and so enough for to-night. Make your mind easy, Percival. Sleep, my son, the sleep of the just, and see what I will do for you when daylight comes to help us both. I have my projects and my plans here in my big head. You shall pay those bills and find Anne Catherick -- my sacred word of honour on it, but you shall! Am I a friend to be treasured in the best corner of your heart, or am I not? Am I worth those loans of money which you so delicately reminded me of a little while since? Whatever you do, never wound me in my sentiments any more. Recognise them, Percival! imitate them, Percival! I forgive you again -- I shake hands again. Good-night
June the 21st
Who is Fanny
Lady Glyde's maid, sir
What does Lady Glyde's maid want with me
A letter, sir
Take it
She refuses to give it to anybody but you, sir
Who sends the letter
Miss Halcombe, sir
Let Lady Glyde's maid come in, Louis. Stop! Do her shoes creak
You have a letter for me, from Miss Halcombe? Put it down on the table, please, and don't upset anything. How is Miss Halcombe
Very well, thank you, sir
And Lady Glyde
Endeavour to ascertain what she means
I am sure, my poor girl, you must want your tea. We can let the messages wait till afterwards. Come, come, if nothing else will put you at your ease, I'll make the tea and have a cup with you
What is the purport of all this
Endeavour to explain
Translate me, Louis
I should feel very much obliged to you, sir, if you would kindly tell me what I had better do
Let things stop as they are
I invariably let things stop as they are. Yes. Is that all
If you think it would be a liberty in me, sir, to write, of course I wouldn't venture to do so. But I am so very anxious to do all I can to serve my mistress faithfully
Good-morning
Another Young Person
I won't see her. In my state of health Young Persons disagree with me. Not at home
It is a gentleman this time, sir
Louis
do you think he would go away if you gave him five shillings
Did he mention his business
Count Fosco said he had come here, sir, because Miss Halcombe was unable to leave Blackwater Park
Show him in
Allow me to present myself, Mr. Fairlie
I come from Blackwater Park, and I have the honour and the happiness of being Madame Fosco's husband. Let me take my first and last advantage of that circumstance by entreating you not to make a stranger of me. I beg you will not disturb yourself -- I beg you will not move
You are very good
I wish I was strong enough to get up. Charmed to see you at Limmeridge. Please take a chair
I am afraid you are suffering to-day
As usual
I am nothing but a bundle of nerves dressed up to look like a man
I have studied many subjects in my time
Among others the inexhaustible subject of nerves. May I make a suggestion, at once the simplest and the most profound? Will you let me alter the light in your room
Certainly -- if you will be so very kind as not to let any of it in on me
Light
is the first essential. Light stimulates, nourishes, preserves. You can no more do without it, Mr. Fairlie, than if you were a flower. Observe. Here, where you sit, I close the shutters to compose you. There, where you do NOT sit, I draw up the blind and let in the invigorating sun. Admit the light into your room if you cannot bear it on yourself. Light, sir, is the grand decree of Providence. You accept Providence with your own restrictions. Accept light on the same terms
You see me confused
on my word of honour, Mr. Fairlie, you see me confused in your presence
Shocked to hear it, I am sure. May I inquire why
Sir, can I enter this room (where you sit a sufferer), and see you surrounded by these admirable objects of Art, without discovering that you are a man whose feelings are acutely impressionable, whose sympathies are perpetually alive? Tell me, can I do this
Pray follow my train of thought
I sit here, a man of refined sympathies myself, in the presence of another man of refined sympathies also. I am conscious of a terrible necessity for lacerating those sympathies by referring to domestic events of a very melancholy kind. What is the inevitable consequence? I have done myself the honour of pointing it out to you already. I sit confused
Is it absolutely necessary to refer to these unpleasant matters
In our homely English phrase, Count Fosco, won't they keep
Must I really hear them
Please break it gently
Anybody dead
Dead
Mr. Fairlie, your national composure terrifies me. In the name of Heaven, what have I said or done to make you think me the messenger of death
Pray accept my apologies
You have said and done nothing. I make it a rule in these distressing cases always to anticipate the worst. It breaks the blow by meeting it half-way, and so on. Inexpressibly relieved, I am sure, to hear that nobody is dead. Anybody ill
Anybody ill
That is part of my bad news, Mr. Fairlie. Yes. Somebody is ill
Grieved, I am sure. Which of them is it
To my profound sorrow, Miss Halcombe. Perhaps you were in some degree prepared to hear this? Perhaps when you found that Miss Halcombe did not come here by herself, as you proposed, and did not write a second time, your affectionate anxiety may have made you fear that she was ill
Is it serious
Serious -- beyond a doubt
Dangerous -- I hope and trust not. Miss Halcombe unhappily exposed herself to be wetted through by a heavy rain. The cold that followed was of an aggravated kind, and it has now brought with it the worst consequence -- fever
Good God
Is it infectious
Not at present
It may turn to infection -- but no such deplorable complication had taken place when I left Blackwater Park. I have felt the deepest interest in the case, Mr. Fairlie -- I have endeavoured to assist the regular medical attendant in watching it -- accept my personal assurances of the uninfectious nature of the fever when I last saw it
You will kindly excuse an invalid
but long conferences of any kind invariably upset me. May I beg to know exactly what the object is to which I am indebted for the honour of your visit
The objects of my visit
are numbered on my fingers. They are two. First, I come to bear my testimony, with profound sorrow, to the lamentable disagreements between Sir Percival and Lady Glyde. I am Sir Percival's oldest friend -- I am related to Lady Glyde by marriage -- I am an eye- witness of all that has happened at Blackwater Park. In those three capacities I speak with authority, with confidence, with honourable regret. Sir, I inform you, as the head of Lady Glyde's family, that Miss Halcombe has exaggerated nothing in the letter which she wrote to your address. I affirm that the remedy which that admirable lady has proposed is the only remedy that will spare you the horrors of public scandal. A temporary separation between husband and wife is the one peaceable solution of this difficulty. Part them for the present, and when all causes of irritation are removed, I, who have now the honour of addressing you -- I will undertake to bring Sir Percival to reason. Lady Glyde is innocent, Lady Glyde is injured, but -- follow my thought here!-- she is, on that very account (I say it with shame), the cause of irritation while she remains under her husband's roof. No other house can receive her with propriety but yours. I invite you to open it
Hi
Follow my thought once more, if you please
My first object you have heard. My second object in coming to this house is to do what Miss Halcombe's illness has prevented her from doing for herself. My large experience is consulted on all difficult matters at Blackwater Park, and my friendly advice was requested on the interesting subject of your letter to Miss Halcombe. I understood at once -- for my sympathies are your sympathies -- why you wished to see her here before you pledged yourself to inviting Lady Glyde. You are most right, sir, in hesitating to receive the wife until you are quite certain that the husband will not exert his authority to reclaim her. I agree to that. I also agree that such delicate explanations as this difficulty involves are not explanations which can be properly disposed of by writing only. My presence here (to my own great inconvenience) is the proof that I speak sincerely. As for the explanations themselves, I -- Fosco -- I, who know Sir Percival much better than Miss Halcombe knows him, affirm to you, on my honour and my word, that he will not come near this house, or attempt to communicate with this house, while his wife is living in it. His affairs are embarrassed. Offer him his freedom by means of the absence of Lady Glyde. I promise you he will take his freedom, and go back to the Continent at the earliest moment when he can get away. Is this clear to you as crystal? Yes, it is. Have you questions to address to me? Be it so, I am here to answer. Ask, Mr. Fairlie -- oblige me by asking to your heart's content
Many thanks
I am sinking fast. In my state of health I must take things for granted. Allow me to do so on this occasion. We quite understand each other. Yes. Much obliged, I am sure, for your kind interference. If I ever get better, and ever have a second opportunity of improving our acquaintance
One moment yet
one moment before I take my leave. I ask permission at parting to impress on you an urgent necessity. It is this, sir. You must not think of waiting till Miss Halcombe recovers before you receive Lady Glyde. Miss Halcombe has the attendance of the doctor, of the housekeeper at Blackwater Park, and of an experienced nurse as well -- three persons for whose capacity and devotion I answer with my life. I tell you that. I tell you, also, that the anxiety and alarm of her sister's illness has already affected the health and spirits of Lady Glyde, and has made her totally unfit to be of use in the sick-room. Her position with her husband grows more and more deplorable and dangerous every day. If you leave her any longer at Blackwater Park, you do nothing whatever to hasten her sister's recovery, and at the same time, you risk the public scandal, which you and I, and all of us, are bound in the sacred interests of the family to avoid. With all my soul, I advise you to remove the serious responsibility of delay from your own shoulders by writing to Lady Glyde to come here at once. Do your affectionate, your honourable, your inevitable duty, and whatever happens in the future, no one can lay the blame on you. I speak from my large experience -- I offer my friendly advice. Is it accepted -- Yes, or No
You hesitate
Mr. Fairlie! I understand that hesitation. You object -- see, sir, how my sympathies look straight down into your thoughts!-- you object that Lady Glyde is not in health and not in spirits to take the long journey, from Hampshire to this place, by herself. Her own maid is removed from her, as you know, and of other servants fit to travel with her, from one end of England to another, there are none at Blackwater Park. You object, again, that she cannot comfortably stop and rest in London, on her way here, because she cannot comfortably go alone to a public hotel where she is a total stranger. In one breath, I grant both objections -- in another breath, I remove them. Follow me, if you please, for the last time. It was my intention, when I returned to England with Sir Percival, to settle myself in the neighbourhood of London. That purpose has just been happily accomplished. I have taken, for six months, a little furnished house in the quarter called St. John's Wood. Be so obliging as to keep this fact in your mind, and observe the programme I now propose. Lady Glyde travels to London (a short journey)-- I myself meet her at the station -- I take her to rest and sleep at my house, which is also the house of her aunt -- when she is restored I escort her to the station again -- she travels to this place, and her own maid (who is now under your roof) receives her at the carriage- door. Here is comfort consulted -- here are the interests of propriety consulted -- here is your own duty -- duty of hospitality, sympathy, protection, to an unhappy lady in need of all three -- smoothed and made easy, from the beginning to the end. I cordially invite you, sir, to second my efforts in the sacred interests of the family. I seriously advise you to write, by my hands, offering the hospitality of your house (and heart), and the hospitality of my house (and heart), to that injured and unfortunate lady whose cause I plead to-day
Dearest Laura, Please come, whenever you like. Break the journey by sleeping in London at your aunt's house. Grieved to hear of dear Marian's illness. Ever affectionately yours
Excuse me -- I am entirely prostrated -- I can do no more. Will you rest and lunch downstairs? Love to all, and sympathy, and so on. Good-morning
Let us keep the house quiet
Let us not smoke indoors, my friend, now Miss Halcombe is ill. You go your way, and I will go mine. When I study I like to be alone. Good-morning, Mrs. Michelson
My place is by Marian's bedside
Whether I am ill, or well, nothing will induce me to lose sight of her
Have you found her
Come in here and tell me about it
Whenever there are women in a house they're always sure to be going up or down stairs
My dear Percival
Mrs. Michelson has duties. Pray recognise her admirable performance of them as sincerely as I do! How is the sufferer, Mrs. Michelson
No better, my lord, I regret to say
Sad -- most sad
You look fatigued, Mrs. Michelson. It is certainly time you and my wife had some help in nursing. I think I may be the means of offering you that help. Circumstances have happened which will oblige Madame Fosco to travel to London either to-morrow or the day after. She will go away in the morning and return at night, and she will bring back with her, to relieve you, a nurse of excellent conduct and capacity, who is now disengaged. The woman is known to my wife as a person to be trusted. Before she comes here say nothing about her, if you please, to the doctor, because he will look with an evil eye on any nurse of my providing. When she appears in this house she will speak for herself, and Mr. Dawson will be obliged to acknowledge that there is no excuse for not employing her. Lady Glyde will say the same. Pray present my best respects and sympathies to Lady Glyde
saline
Good-morning, sir
I greatly fear you find no improvement in the symptoms to-day
I find decided improvement
You still persist in your lowering treatment of this case of fever
I persist in the treatment which is justified by my own professional experience
Permit me to put one question to you on the vast subject of professional experience
I presume to offer no more advice -- I only presume to make an inquiry. You live at some distance, sir, from the gigantic centres of scientific activity -- London and Paris. Have you ever heard of the wasting effects of fever being reasonably and intelligibly repaired by fortifying the exhausted patient with brandy, wine, ammonia, and quinine? Has that new heresy of the highest medical authorities ever reached your ears -- Yes or No
When a professional man puts that question to me I shall be glad to answer him
You are not a professional man, and I beg to decline answering you
Good-morning, Mr. Dawson
My lady, we must all remember not to be hasty in our judgments on our inferiors -- especially when they come from foreign parts
About this new nurse, Mrs. Michelson
Yes, sir
I find that she has been brought here from London by the wife of that fat old foreigner, who is always trying to interfere with me. Mrs. Michelson, the fat old foreigner is a quack
Are you aware, sir
that you are talking of a nobleman
Pooh! He isn't the first quack with a handle to his name. They're all Counts -- hang 'em
He would not be a friend of Sir Percival Glyde's, sir, if he was not a member of the highest aristocracy -- excepting the English aristocracy, of course
Very well, Mrs. Michelson, call him what you like, and let us get back to the nurse. I have been objecting to her already
Without having seen her, sir
Yes, without having seen her. She may be the best nurse in existence, but she is not a nurse of my providing. I have put that objection to Sir Percival, as the master of the house. He doesn't support me. He says a nurse of my providing would have been a stranger from London also, and he thinks the woman ought to have a trial, after his wife's aunt has taken the trouble to fetch her from London. There is some justice in that, and I can't decently say No. But I have made it a condition that she is to go at once, if I find reason to complain of her. This proposal being one which I have some right to make, as medical attendant, Sir Percival has consented to it. Now, Mrs. Michelson, I know I can depend on you, and I want you to keep a sharp eye on the nurse for the first day or two, and to see that she gives Miss Halcombe no medicines but mine. This foreign nobleman of yours is dying to try his quack remedies (mesmerism included) on my patient, and a nurse who is brought here by his wife may be a little too willing to help him. You understand? Very well, then, we may go upstairs. Is the nurse there? I'll say a word to her before she goes into the sick-room
Much as usual
Trust Mr. Dawson
for a few days more, if you please. But if there is not some change for the better in that time, send for advice from London, which this mule of a doctor must accept in spite of himself. Offend Mr. Dawson, and save Miss Halcombe. I say this seriously, on my word of honour and from the bottom of my heart
Oh, Mrs. Michelson, I am heart-broken about my sister, and I have no friend to advise me! Do you think Mr. Dawson is wrong? He told me himself this morning that there was no fear, and no need to send for another doctor
With all respect to Mr. Dawson
in your ladyship's place I should remember the Count's advice
HIS advice
God help us -- HIS advice
Has the fever turned to infection
I am afraid it has
we shall know better to-morrow morning
When did the change happen
Has Lady Glyde been in the room since
Have you and Mrs. Rubelle been made aware of the full extent of the mischief
It is typhus fever
It is NOT typhus fever
I protest against this intrusion, sir. No one has a right to put questions here but me. I have done my duty to the best of my ability
I say I have done my duty
A physician has been sent for from London. I will consult on the nature of the fever with him, and with no one else. I insist on your leaving the room
I entered this room, sir, in the sacred interests of humanity
And in the same interests, if the coming of the physician is delayed, I will enter it again. I warn you once more that the fever has turned to typhus, and that your treatment is responsible for this lamentable change. If that unhappy lady dies, I will give my testimony in a court of justice that your ignorance and obstinacy have been the cause of her death
I MUST and WILL come in
I am sincerely sorry, I am sincerely grieved
The fever may, I fear, be infectious. Until I am certain that it is not, I entreat you to keep out of the room
What is your opinion of the fever
Typhus
Typhus fever beyond all doubt
She wants no doctor now -- all she requires is careful watching and nursing for some time to come, and that I see she has
I want to speak to you, Mrs. Michelson, about a matter which I decided on some time ago, and which I should have mentioned before, but for the sickness and trouble in the house. In plain words, I have reasons for wishing to break up my establishment immediately at this place -- leaving you in charge, of course, as usual. As soon as Lady Glyde and Miss Halcombe can travel they must both have change of air. My friends, Count Fosco and the Countess, will leave us before that time to live in the neighbourhood of London, and I have reasons for not opening the house to any more company, with a view to economising as carefully as I can. I don't blame you, but my expenses here are a great deal too heavy. In short, I shall sell the horses, and get rid of all the servants at once. I never do things by halves, as you know, and I mean to have the house clear of a pack of useless people by this time to-morrow
Do you mean, Sir Percival, that I am to dismiss the indoor servants under my charge without the usual month's warning
Certainly I do. We may all be out of the house before another month, and I am not going to leave the servants here in idleness, with no master to wait on
Who is to do the cooking, Sir Percival, while you are still staying here
Margaret Porcher can roast and boil -- keep her. What do I want with a cook if I don't mean to give any dinner-parties
The servant you have mentioned is the most unintelligent servant in the house, Sir Percival
Keep her, I tell you, and have a woman in from the village to do the cleaning and go away again. My weekly expenses must and shall be lowered immediately. I don't send for you to make objections, Mrs. Michelson -- I send for you to carry out my plans of economy. Dismiss the whole lazy pack of indoor servants to-morrow, except Porcher. She is as strong as a horse -- and we'll make her work like a horse
You will excuse me for reminding you, Sir Percival, that if the servants go to-morrow they must have a month's wages in lieu of a month's warning
Let them! A month's wages saves a month's waste and gluttony in the servants' hall
After that last remark, Sir Percival, I have nothing more to say. Your directions shall be attended to
Where are you going
To Marian's room
It may spare you a disappointment
if I tell you at once that you will not find her there
Not find her there
No. She left the house yesterday morning with Fosco and his wife
I certainly mean it
In her state, Sir Percival! Without mentioning her intentions to Lady Glyde
Impossible
Where was the doctor? where was Mr. Dawson when Marian went away
Mr. Dawson wasn't wanted, and wasn't here
He left of his own accord, which is enough of itself to show that she was strong enough to travel. How you stare! If you don't believe she has gone, look for yourself. Open her room door, and all the other room doors if you like
Don't go, Mrs. Michelson! don't leave me, for God's sake
What does it mean, Sir Percival? I insist -- I beg and pray you will tell me what it means
It means
that Miss Halcombe was strong enough yesterday morning to sit up and be dressed, and that she insisted on taking advantage of Fosco's going to London to go there too
To London
Yes -- on her way to Limmeridge
You saw Miss Halcombe last
Tell me plainly, Mrs. Michelson, did you think she looked fit to travel
Not in MY opinion, your ladyship
Before you went away
did you, or did you not, tell the nurse that Miss Halcombe looked much stronger and better
I certainly made the remark, Sir Percival
Set one of Mrs. Michelson's opinions fairly against the other
and try to be reasonable about a perfectly plain matter. If she had not been well enough to be moved do you think we should any of us have risked letting her go? She has got three competent people to look after her -- Fosco and your aunt, and Mrs. Rubelle, who went away with them expressly for that purpose. They took a whole carriage yesterday, and made a bed for her on the seat in case she felt tired. To-day, Fosco and Mrs. Rubelle go on with her themselves to Cumberland
Why does Marian go to Limmeridge and leave me here by myself
Because your uncle won't receive you till he has seen your sister first
Have you forgotten the letter he wrote to her at the beginning of her illness? It was shown to you, you read it yourself, and you ought to remember it
I do remember it
If you do, why should you be surprised at her leaving you? You want to be back at Limmeridge, and she has gone there to get your uncle's leave for you on his own terms
Marian never left me before
without bidding me good- bye
She would have bid you good-bye this time
if she had not been afraid of herself and of you. She knew you would try to stop her, she knew you would distress her by crying. Do you want to make any more objections? If you do, you must come downstairs and ask questions in the dining-room. These worries upset me. I want a glass of wine
Something has happened to my sister
Remember, my lady, what surprising energy there is in Miss Halcombe
She might well make an effort which other ladies in her situation would be unfit for. I hope and believe there is nothing wrong -- I do indeed
I must follow Marian
I must go where she has gone, I must see that she is alive and well with my own eyes. Come! come down with me to Sir Percival
Do you suppose there are any secrets going on here
there are none -- there is nothing underhand, nothing kept from you or from any one
I come to beg you will make allowances for my anxiety about Marian, and let me follow her at once by the afternoon train
You must wait till to-morrow
and then if you don't hear to the contrary you can go. I don't suppose you are at all likely to hear to the contrary, so I shall write to Fosco by to-night's post
Why should you write to Count Fosco
To tell him to expect you by the midday train
He will meet you at the station when you get to London, and take you on to sleep at your aunt's in St. John's Wood
There is no necessity for Count Fosco to meet me
I would rather not stay in London to sleep
You must. You can't take the whole journey to Cumberland in one day. You must rest a night in London -- and I don't choose you to go by yourself to an hotel. Fosco made the offer to your uncle to give you house-room on the way down, and your uncle has accepted it. Here! here is a letter from him addressed to yourself. I ought to have sent it up this morning, but I forgot. Read it and see what Mr. Fairlie himself says to you
Read it
I don't know what is the matter with me. I can't read it myself
Dearest Laura, Please come whenever you like. Break the journey by sleeping at your aunt's house. Grieved to hear of dear Marian's illness. Affectionately yours, Frederick Fairlie
I would rather not go there -- I would rather not stay a night in London
Don't write to Count Fosco! Pray, pray don't write to him
My sight seems to be failing me
Pray don't write to Count Fosco
Why not, I should like to know
Where can you stay more properly in London than at the place your uncle himself chooses for you -- at your aunt's house? Ask Mrs. Michelson
Drop it
If you haven't sense enough to know what is best for yourself other people must know it foe you. The arrangement is made and there is an end of it. You are only wanted to do what Miss Halcombe has done for you
Marian
Marian sleeping in Count Fosco's house
Yes, in Count Fosco's house. She slept there last night to break the journey, and you are to follow her example, and do what your uncle tells you. You are to sleep at Fosco's to-morrow night, as your sister did, to break the journey. Don't throw too many obstacles in my way! don't make me repent of letting you go at all
Will your ladyship excuse me
if I suggest that we had better not wait here till Sir Percival comes back? I am very much afraid he is over-excited with wine
Your ladyship will pardon my freedom
but it is said, 'by their fruits ye shall know them.' I am sure the Count's constant kindness and constant attention, from the very beginning of Miss Halcombe's illness, merit our best confidence and esteem. Even his lordship's serious misunderstanding with Mr. Dawson was entirely attributable to his anxiety on Miss Halcombe's account
What misunderstanding
Worse! worse than I thought
The Count knew Mr. Dawson would never consent to Marian's taking a journey -- he purposely insulted the doctor to get him out of the house
Oh, my lady! my lady
Mrs. Michelson
no words that ever were spoken will persuade me that my sister is in that man's power and in that man's house with her own consent. My horror of him is such, that nothing Sir Percival could say and no letters my uncle could write, would induce me, if I had only my own feelings to consult, to eat, drink, or sleep under his roof. Put my misery of suspense about Marian gives me the courage to follow her anywhere, to follow her even into Count Fosco's house
I am afraid to believe it
I am afraid she is still in that man's house. If I am wrong, if she has really gone on to Limmeridge, I am resolved I will not sleep to- morrow night under Count Fosco's roof. My dearest friend in the world, next to my sister, lives near London. You have heard me, you have heard Miss Halcombe, speak of Mrs. Vesey? I mean to write, and propose to sleep at her house. I don't know how I shall get there -- I don't know how I shall avoid the Count -- but to that refuge I will escape in some way, if my sister has gone to Cumberland. All I ask of you to do, is to see yourself that my letter to Mrs. Vesey goes to London to-night, as certainly as Sir Percival's letter goes to Count Fosco. I have reasons for not trusting the post-bag downstairs. Will you keep my secret, and help me in this? it is the last favour, perhaps, that I shall ever ask of you
I shall see you no more
This is our parting -- our parting, it may be for ever. Will you try to forgive me, Percival, as heartily as I forgive YOU
I shall come back
It is of your own free will
that your ladyship goes to London
I will go anywhere
to end the dreadful suspense that I am suffering at this moment
Most willingly, Mrs. Michelson
We all have our crosses to bear, my lady
I fear your ladyship rested badly last night
Yes
I was terribly disturbed by dreams
Indeed, my lady
You posted the letter to Mrs. Vesey with your own hands
Yes, my lady
Did Sir Percival say, yesterday, that Count Fosco was to meet me at the terminus in London
He did, my lady
I wish you were going with me
You have been very kind to me and to my sister
kind when we were both friendless. I shall remember you gratefully, as long as I live to remember any one. Good-bye -- and God bless you
Good-bye, my lady
good-bye, for the present only; good-bye, with my best and kindest wishes for happier times
Do you believe in dreams
My dreams, last night, were dreams I have never had before. The terror of them is hanging over me still
What is the matter, ma'am
You here
Not gone to London! Not gone to Cumberland
Certainly not
I have never left Blackwater Park
Where is Miss Halcombe
Miss Halcombe, ma'am, has not left Blackwater Park either
Here is Sir Percival, ma'am, returned from his ride
Well, Mrs. Michelson
you have found it out at last, have you
When did you show yourself in the garden
I showed myself about half an hour ago, sir. You said I might take my liberty again as soon as Lady Glyde had gone away to London
Quite right. I don't blame you -- I only asked the question
You can't believe it, can you
Here! come along and see for yourself
There
Look up at the first floor. You know the old Elizabethan bedrooms? Miss Halcombe is snug and safe in one of the best of them at this moment. Take her in, Mrs. Rubelle (you have got your key?); take Mrs. Michelson in, and let her own eyes satisfy her that there is no deception this time
I must beg permission, Sir Percival, to speak a few words to you in private
Having done so, I shall be ready to proceed with this person to Miss Halcombe's room
Well
what is it now
I wish to mention, sir, that I am desirous of resigning the situation I now hold at Blackwater Park
Why
why, I should like to know
It is not for me, Sir Percival, to express an opinion on what has taken place in this house. I desire to give no offence. I merely wish to say that I do not feel it consistent with my duty to Lady Glyde and to myself to remain any longer in your service
Is it consistent with your duty to me to stand there, casting suspicion on me to my face
I see what you're driving at. You have taken your own mean, underhand view of an innocent deception practised on Lady Glyde for her own good. It was essential to her health that she should have a change of air immediately, and you know as well as I do she would never have gone away if she had been told Miss Halcombe was still left here. She has been deceived in her own interests -- and I don't care who knows it. Go, if you like -- there are plenty of housekeepers as good as you to be had for the asking. Go when you please -- but take care how you spread scandals about me and my affairs when you're out of my service. Tell the truth, and nothing but the truth, or it will be the worse for you! See Miss Halcombe for yourself -- see if she hasn't been as well taken care of in one part of the house as in the other. Remember the doctor's own orders that Lady Glyde was to have a change of air at the earliest possible opportunity. Bear all that well in mind, and then say anything against me and my proceedings if you dare
While I am in your service, Sir Percival
I hope I know my duty well enough not to inquire into your motives. When I am out of your service, I hope I know my own place well enough not to speak of matters which don't concern me
When do you want to go
Don't suppose I am anxious to keep you -- don't suppose I care about your leaving the house. I am perfectly fair and open in this matter, from first to last. When do you want to go
I should wish to leave at your earliest convenience, Sir Percival
My convenience has nothing to do with it. I shall be out of the house for good and all to-morrow morning, and I can settle your accounts to-night. If you want to study anybody's convenience, it had better be Miss Halcombe's. Mrs. Rubelle's time is up to-day, and she has reasons for wishing to be in London to-night. If you go at once, Miss Halcombe won't have a soul left here to look after her
Why are you leaving my service
Mind! I don't know why you are going
You must give a reason for leaving me, I suppose, when you get another situation. What reason? The breaking up of the family? Is that it
There can be no positive objection, Sir Percival, to that reason
Very well! That's all I want to know. If people apply for your character, that's your reason, stated by yourself. You go in consequence of the breaking up of the family
At last
I am glad to hear it, ma'am
I want to go very much
Do you leave to-day
Now that you have taken charge, ma'am, I leave in half an hour's time. Sir Percival has kindly placed at my disposition the gardener, and the chaise, whenever I want them. I shall want them in half an hour's time to go to the station. I am packed up in anticipation already. I wish you good-day, ma'am
This is a very serious case
I recommend you to write to Lady Glyde's friends directly
Is it heart-disease
Yes, heart-disease of a most dangerous kind
Ah! poor Lady Glyde! poor dear Lady Glyde
Good Mrs. Cook
Lady Glyde is better. My mind is more easy than it was, and I am going out to stretch my big legs with a sunny little summer walk. Shall I order for you, shall I market for you, Mrs. Cook? What are you making there? A nice tart for dinner? Much crust, if you please -- much crisp crust, my dear, that melts and crumbles delicious in the mouth
Lady Glyde was just as usual
she was awake, and looking about her in a strange, forlorn manner, when I heard her give a sort of half cry, and she fainted in a moment
Not dead
Yes
Dead. I was afraid it would happen suddenly when I examined her heart yesterday
Dead
dead so suddenly! dead so soon! What will the Count say
You have been sitting up all night
and your nerves are shaken. This person
this person will stay in the room till I can send for the necessary assistance
I must prepare the Count
I must carefully prepare the Count
Your master is a foreigner
Does he understand about registering the death
I can't rightly tell, sir
but I should think not
I don't usually do such things
but it may save the family trouble in this case if I register the death myself. I shall pass the district office in half an hour's time, and I can easily look in. Mention, if you please, that I will do so
Yes, sir
with thanks, I'm sure, for your kindness in thinking of it
You don't mind staying here till I can send you the proper person
No, sir
I'll stay with the poor lady till then. I suppose nothing more could be done, sir, than was done
No
nothing; she must have suffered sadly before ever I saw her -- the case was hopeless when I was called in
Ah, dear me! we all come to it, sooner or later, don't we, sir
Good-day
You have something to tell me
Walter
my own darling! my heart is heavy for you. Oh, my son! my son! try to remember that I am still left
Let me go away alone for a little while
I shall bear it better when I have looked once more at the place where I first saw her -- when I have knelt and prayed by the grave where they have laid her to rest
Sacred to the Memory of Laura
My dream! my dream
Father! strengthen him. Father! help him in his hour of need
Hide your face! don't look at her! Oh, for God's sake, spare him
Sacred to the Memory of Laura, Lady Glyde
Laura, Lady Glyde
If ever the time comes, when the devotion of my whole heart and soul and strength will give you a moment's happiness, or spare you a moment's sorrow, will you try to remember the poor drawing- master who has taught you
They have tried to make me forget everything, Walter, but I remember Marian, and I remember YOU
There is Anne Catherick, ma'am, with the attendant who waits on her. The attendant will answer any questions you wish to put
You will be doing a good action
you will be helping the most injured and unhappy woman alive. There is your marriage portion for a reward. Bring her safely to me here, and I will put these four bank-notes into your hand before I claim her
Will you give me a letter saying those words, which I can show to my sweetheart when he asks how I got the money
I will bring the letter with me, ready written and signed
Then I'll risk it
When
To-morrow
Look at your own name on your own clothes, and don't worry us all any more about being Lady Glyde. She's dead and buried, and you're alive and hearty. Do look at your clothes now! There it is, in good marking ink, and there you will find it on all your old things, which we have kept in the house -- Anne Catherick, as plain as print
What a woman's hands ARE fit for
early and late, these hands of mine shall do
Don't doubt my courage, Walter
it's my weakness that cries, not ME. The house-work shall conquer it if I can't
I am not quite broken down yet
I am worth trusting with my share of the work
And worth trusting with my share in the risk and the danger too. Remember that, if the time comes
the late Lady Glyde
Dearest Mrs. Vesey, I am in sad distress and anxiety, and I may come to your house to-morrow night, and ask for a bed. I can't tell you what is the matter in this letter -- I write it in such fear of being found out that I can fix my mind on nothing. Pray be at home to see me. I will give you a thousand kisses, and tell you everything. Your affectionate Laura
You are not tired of me yet
You are not going away because you are tired of me? I will try to do better -- I will try to get well. Are you as fond of me, Walter as you used to be, now I am so pale and thin, and so slow in learning to draw
Try to get well again
try to get well again, for Marian's sake and for mine
Yes
I must try, because they are both so fond of me
Don't be gone long! I can't get on with my drawing, Walter, when you are not here to help me
I shall soon be back, my darling -- soon be back to see how you are getting on
I shall, in all probability, be back in a few hours
and you will take care, as usual, to let no one inside the doors in my absence. But if anything happens
What can happen
Tell me plainly, Walter, if there is any danger, and I shall know how to meet it
The only danger
is that Sir Percival Glyde may have been recalled to London by the news of Laura's escape. You are aware that he had me watched before I left England, and that he probably knows me by sight, although I don't know him
It is not likely
that I shall be seen in London again so soon, either by Sir Percival himself or by the persons in his employ. But it is barely possible that an accident may happen. In that case, you will not be alarmed if I fail to return to- night, and you will satisfy any inquiry of Laura's with the best excuse that you can make for me? If I find the least reason to suspect that I am watched, I will take good care that no spy follows me back to this house. Don't doubt my return, Marian, however it may be delayed -- and fear nothing
Nothing
You shall not regret, Walter, that you have only a woman to help you
Take care
take care
Before I enter on the business which brings me here
I ought to warn you, Mr. Kyrle, that the shortest statement I can make of it may occupy some little time
My time is at Miss Halcombe's disposal
Where any interests of hers are concerned, I represent my partner personally, as well as professionally. It was his request that I should do so, when he ceased to take an active part in business
May I inquire whether Mr. Gilmore is in England
He is not, he is living with his relatives in Germany. His health has improved, but the period of his return is still uncertain
What is your opinion, Mr. Kyrle
Before I give my opinion
I must beg permission to clear the ground by a few questions
Do you believe that I have spoken the truth, Mr. Kyrle
So far as your own convictions are concerned, I am certain you have spoken the truth
I have the highest esteem for Miss Halcombe, and I have therefore every reason to respect a gentleman whose mediation she trusts in a matter of this kind. I will even go farther, if you like, and admit, for courtesy's sake and for argument's sake, that the identity of Lady Glyde as a living person is a proved fact to Miss Halcombe and yourself. But you come to me for a legal opinion. As a lawyer, and as a lawyer only, it is my duty to tell you, Mr. Hartright, that you have not the shadow of a case
You put it strongly, Mr. Kyrle
I will try to put it plainly as well. The evidence of Lady Glyde's death is, on the face of it, clear and satisfactory. There is her aunt's testimony to prove that she came to Count Fosco's house, that she fell ill, and that she died. There is the testimony of the medical certificate to prove the death, and to show that it took place under natural circumstances. There is the fact of the funeral at Limmeridge, and there is the assertion of the inscription on the tomb. That is the case you want to overthrow. What evidence have you to support the declaration on your side that the person who died and was buried was not Lady Glyde? Let us run through the main points of your statement and see what they are worth. Miss Halcombe goes to a certain private Asylum, and there sees a certain female patient. It is known that a woman named Anne Catherick, and bearing an extraordinary personal resemblance to Lady Glyde, escaped from the Asylum; it is known that the person received there last July was received as Anne Catherick brought back; it is known that the gentleman who brought her back warned Mr. Fairlie that it was part of her insanity to be bent on personating his dead niece; and it is known that she did repeatedly declare herself in the Asylum (where no one believed her) to be Lady Glyde. These are all facts. What have you to set against them? Miss Halcombe's recognition of the woman, which recognition after-events invalidate or contradict. Does Miss Halcombe assert her supposed sister's identity to the owner of the Asylum, and take legal means for rescuing her? No, she secretly bribes a nurse to let her escape. When the patient has been released in this doubtful manner, and is taken to Mr. Fairlie, does he recognise her? Is he staggered for one instant in his belief of his niece's death? No. Do the servants recognise her? No. Is she kept in the neighbourhood to assert her own identity, and to stand the test of further proceedings? No, she is privately taken to London. In the meantime you have recognised her also, but you are not a relative -- you are not even an old friend of the family. The servants contradict you, and Mr. Fairlie contradicts Miss Halcombe, and the supposed Lady Glyde contradicts herself. She declares she passed the night in London at a certain house. Your own evidence shows that she has never been near that house, and your own admission is that her condition of mind prevents you from producing her anywhere to submit to investigation, and to speak for herself. I pass over minor points of evidence on both sides to save time, and I ask you, if this case were to go now into a court of law -- to go before a jury, bound to take facts as they reasonably appear -- where are your proofs
There can be no doubt
that the facts, as you have stated them, appear to tell against us, but
But you think those facts can be explained away
Let me tell you the result of my experience on that point. When an English jury has to choose between a plain fact ON the surface and a long explanation UNDER the surface, it always takes the fact in preference to the explanation. For example, Lady Glyde (I call the lady you represent by that name for argument's sake) declares she has slept at a certain house, and it is proved that she has not slept at that house. You explain this circumstance by entering into the state of her mind, and deducing from it a metaphysical conclusion. I don't say the conclusion is wrong -- I only say that the jury will take the fact of her contradicting herself in preference to any reason for the contradiction that you can offer
But is it not possible
by dint of patience and exertion, to discover additional evidence? Miss Halcombe and I have a few hundred pounds
Consider the subject, Mr. Hartright, from your own point of view
If you are right about Sir Percival Glyde and Count Fosco (which I don't admit, mind), every imaginable difficulty would be thrown in the way of your getting fresh evidence. Every obstacle of litigation would be raised -- every point in the case would be systematically contested -- and by the time we had spent our thousands instead of our hundreds, the final result would, in all probability, be against us. Questions of identity, where instances of personal resemblance are concerned, are, in themselves, the hardest of all questions to settle -- the hardest, even when they are free from the complications which beset the case we are now discussing. I really see no prospect of throwing any light whatever on this extraordinary affair. Even if the person buried in Limmeridge churchyard be not Lady Glyde, she was, in life, on your own showing, so like her, that we should gain nothing, if we applied for the necessary authority to have the body exhumed. In short, there is no case, Mr. Hartright -- there is really no case
Are there not other proofs that we might produce besides the proof of identity
Not as you are situated
The simplest and surest of all proofs, the proof by comparison of dates, is, as I understand, altogether out of your reach. If you could show a discrepancy between the date of the doctor's certificate and the date of Lady Glyde's journey to London, the matter would wear a totally different aspect, and I should be the first to say, Let us go on
That date may yet be recovered, Mr. Kyrle
On the day when it is recovered, Mr. Hartright, you will have a case. If you have any prospect, at this moment, of getting at it -- tell me, and we shall see if I can advise you
I can think of no means of ascertaining the date at present
because I can think of no persons who are sure to know it, but Count Fosco and Sir Percival Glyde
With your opinion of the conduct of those two gentlemen
you don't expect help in that quarter, I presume? If they have combined to gain large sums of money by a conspiracy, they are not likely to confess it, at any rate
They may be forced to confess it, Mr. Kyrle
By whom
By me
You are very determined
You have, no doubt, a personal motive for proceeding, into which it is not my business to inquire. If a case can be produced in the future, I can only say, my best assistance is at your service. At the same time I must warn you, as the money question always enters into the law question, that I see little hope, even if you ultimately established the fact of Lady Glyde's being alive, of recovering her fortune. The foreigner would probably leave the country before proceedings were commenced, and Sir Percival's embarrassments are numerous enough and pressing enough to transfer almost any sum of money he may possess from himself to his creditors. You are of course aware
Let me beg that we may not discuss Lady Glyde's affairs
I have never known anything about them in former times, and I know nothing of them now -- except that her fortune is lost. You are right in assuming that I have personal motives for stirring in this matter. I wish those motives to be always as disinterested as they are at the present moment
There shall be no money motive
no idea of personal advantage in the service I mean to render to Lady Glyde. She has been cast out as a stranger from the house in which she was born -- a lie which records her death has been written on her mother's tomb -- and there are two men, alive and unpunished, who are responsible for it. That house shall open again to receive her in the presence of every soul who followed the false funeral to the grave -- that lie shall be publicly erased from the tombstone by the authority of the head of the family, and those two men shall answer for their crime to ME, though the justice that sits in tribunals is powerless to pursue them. I have given my life to that purpose, and, alone as I stand, if God spares me, I will accomplish it
We each keep our opinion, Mr. Kyrle
and we must wait till the events of the future decide between us. In the meantime, I am much obliged to you for the attention you have given to my statement. You have shown me that the legal remedy lies, in every sense of the word, beyond our means. We cannot produce the law proof, and we are not rich enough to pay the law expenses. It is something gained to know that
This came by post a few days ago
Perhaps you will not mind delivering it? Pray tell Miss Halcombe, at the same time, that I sincerely regret being, thus far, unable to help her, except by advice, which will not be more welcome, I am afraid, to her than to you
Miss Halcombe. Care of Messrs. Gilmore &amp; Kyrle, Chancery Lane
Do you happen to know
if Sir Percival Glyde is still in Paris
He has returned to London
At least I heard so from his solicitor, whom I met yesterday
Bad news, Walter
the worst news you could bring. Have you nothing more to tell me
I have something to give you
You know your correspondent
Too well
My correspondent is Count Fosco
Impelled by honourable admiration -- honourable to myself, honourable to you -- I write, magnificent Marian, in the interests of your tranquillity, to say two consoling words -- "Fear nothing! 

"Exercise your fine natural sense and remain in retirement. Dear and admirable woman, invite no dangerous publicity. Resignation is sublime -- adopt it. The modest repose of home is eternally fresh -- enjoy it. The storms of life pass harmless over the valley of Seclusion -- dwell, dear lady, in the valley. 

"Do this and I authorise you to fear nothing. No new calamity shall lacerate your sensibilities -- sensibilities precious to me as my own. You shall not be molested, the fair companion of your retreat shall not be pursued. She has found a new asylum in your heart. Priceless asylum!-- I envy her and leave her there. 

"One last word of affectionate warning, of paternal caution, and I tear myself from the charm of addressing you -- I close these fervent lines. 

"Advance no farther than you have gone already, compromise no serious interests, threaten nobody. Do not, I implore you, force me into action -- ME, the Man of Action -- when it is the cherished object of my ambition to be passive, to restrict the vast reach of my energies and my combinations for your sake. If you have rash friends, moderate their deplorable ardour. If Mr. Hartright returns to England, hold no communication with him. I walk on a path of my own, and Percival follows at my heels. On the day when Mr. Hartright crosses that path, he is a lost man
He is trying to frighten you -- a sure sign that he is frightened himself
Walter
if ever those two men are at your mercy, and if you are obliged to spare one of them, don't let it be the Count
I will keep this letter, Marian, to help my memory when the time comes
When the time comes
Can you speak of the future as if you were certain of it?-- certain after what you have heard in Mr. Kyrle's office, after what has happened to you to-day
I don't count the time from to-day, Marian. All I have done to- day is to ask another man to act for me. I count from to-morrow
Why from to-morrow
Because to-morrow I mean to act for myself
How
I shall go to Blackwater by the first train, and return, I hope, at night
To Blackwater
Yes. I have had time to think since I left Mr. Kyrle. His opinion on one point confirms my own. We must persist to the last in hunting down the date of Laura's journey. The one weak point in the conspiracy, and probably the one chance of proving that she is a living woman, centre in the discovery of that date
You mean
the discovery that Laura did not leave Blackwater Park till after the date of her death on the doctor's certificate
Certainly
What makes you think it might have been AFTER? Laura can tell us nothing of the time she was in London
But the owner of the Asylum told you that she was received there on the twenty-seventh of July. I doubt Count Fosco's ability to keep her in London, and to keep her insensible to all that was passing around her, more than one night. In that case, she must have started on the twenty-sixth, and must have come to London one day after the date of her own death on the doctor's certificate. If we can prove that date, we prove our case against Sir Percival and the Count
Yes, yes -- I see! But how is the proof to be obtained
Mrs. Michelson's narrative has suggested to me two ways of trying to obtain it. One of them is to question the doctor, Mr. Dawson, who must know when he resumed his attendance at Blackwater Park after Laura left the house. The other is to make inquiries at the inn to which Sir Percival drove away by himself at night. We know that his departure followed Laura's after the lapse of a few hours, and we may get at the date in that way. The attempt is at least worth making, and to-morrow I am determined it shall be made
And suppose it fails -- I look at the worst now, Walter; but I will look at the best if disappointments come to try us -- suppose no one can help you at Blackwater
There are two men who can help me, and shall help me in London -- Sir Percival and the Count. Innocent people may well forget the date -- but THEY are guilty, and THEY know it. If I fail everywhere else, I mean to force a confession out of one or both of them on my own terms
Begin with the Count
For my sake, begin with the Count
We must begin, for Laura's sake, where there is the best chance of success
Yes
you are right -- it was mean and miserable of me to say that. I try to be patient, Walter, and succeed better now than I did in happier times. But I have a little of my old temper still left, and it will get the better of me when I think of the Count
His turn will come
But, remember, there is no weak place in his life that we know of yet
Marian! There is a weak place we both know of in Sir Percival's life
You mean the Secret
Yes: the Secret. It is our only sure hold on him. I can force him from his position of security, I can drag him and his villainy into the face of day, by no other means. Whatever the Count may have done, Sir Percival has consented to the conspiracy against Laura from another motive besides the motive of gain. You heard him tell the Count that he believed his wife knew enough to ruin him? You heard him say that he was a lost man if the secret of Anne Catherick was known
Yes! yes! I did
Well, Marian, when our other resources have failed us, I mean to know the Secret. My old superstition clings to me, even yet. I say again the woman in white is a living influence in our three lives. The End is appointed -- the End is drawing us on -- and Anne Catherick, dead in her grave, points the way to it still
quite beyond her
some time in July, the last fortnight or the last ten days in the month
trespass
If I do succeed, it shall be one result of my success that I put it out of her husband's power to take her from me again
I wish I could be of any help to you in this sad calamity
All I can do is to feel heartily for your distress. If Anne had been your own child, Mrs. Clements, you could have shown her no truer kindness -- you could have made no readier sacrifices for her sake
There's no great merit in that, sir
The poor thing was as good as my own child to me. I nursed her from a baby, sir, bringing her up by hand -- and a hard job it was to rear her. It wouldn't go to my heart so to lose her if I hadn't made her first short clothes and taught her to walk. I always said she was sent to console me for never having chick or child of my own. And now she's lost the old times keep coming back to my mind, and even at my age I can't help crying about her -- I can't indeed, sir
Did you know Mrs. Catherick before Anne was born
Not very long, sir -- not above four months. We saw a great deal of each other in that time, but we were never very friendly together
Were you and Mrs. Catherick neighbours
Yes, sir -- neighbours at Old Welmingham
OLD Welmingham? There are two places of that name, then, in Hampshire
Well, sir, there used to be in those days -- better than three-and- twenty years ago. They built a new town about two miles off, convenient to the river -- and Old Welmingham, which was never much more than a village, got in time to be deserted. The new town is the place they call Welmingham now -- but the old parish church is the parish church still. It stands by itself, with the houses pulled down or gone to ruin all round it. I've lived to see sad changes. It was a pleasant, pretty place in my time
Did you live there before your marriage, Mrs. Clements
No, sir -- I'm a Norfolk woman. It wasn't the place my husband belonged to either. He was from Grimsby, as I told you, and he served his apprenticeship there. But having friends down south, and hearing of an opening, he got into business at Southampton. It was in a small way, but he made enough for a plain man to retire on, and settled at Old Welmingham. I went there with him when he married me. We were neither of us young, but we lived very happy together -- happier than our neighbour, Mr. Catherick, lived along with his wife when they came to Old Welmingham a year or two afterwards
Was your husband acquainted with them before that
With Catherick, sir -- not with his wife. She was a stranger to both of us. Some gentlemen had made interest for Catherick, and he got the situation of clerk at Welmingham church, which was the reason of his coming to settle in our neighbourhood. He brought his newly-married wife along with him, and we heard in course of time she had been lady's-maid in a family that lived at Varneck Hall, near Southampton. Catherick had found it a hard matter to get her to marry him, in consequence of her holding herself uncommonly high. He had asked and asked, and given the thing up at last, seeing she was so contrary about it. When he HAD given it up she turned contrary just the other way, and came to him of her own accord, without rhyme or reason seemingly. My poor husband always said that was the time to have given her a lesson. But Catherick was too fond of her to do anything of the sort -- he never checked her either before they were married or after. He was a quick man in his feelings, letting them carry him a deal too far, now in one way and now in another, and he would have spoilt a better wife than Mrs. Catherick if a better had married him. I don't like to speak ill of any one, sir, but she was a heartless woman, with a terrible will of her own -- fond of foolish admiration and fine clothes, and not caring to show so much as decent outward respect to Catherick, kindly as he always treated her. My husband said he thought things would turn out badly when they first came to live near us, and his words proved true. Before they had been quite four months in our neighbourhood there was a dreadful scandal and a miserable break-up in their household. Both of them were in fault -- I am afraid both of them were equally in fault
You mean both husband and wife
Oh, no, sir! I don't mean Catherick -- he was only to be pitied. I meant his wife and the person
And the person who caused the scandal
Yes, sir. A gentleman born and brought up, who ought to have set a better example. You know him, sir -- and my poor dear Anne knew him only too well
Sir Percival Glyde
Yes, Sir Percival Glyde
Did Sir Percival live in your neighbourhood at that time
No, sir. He came among us as a stranger. His father had died not long before in foreign parts. I remember he was in mourning. He put up at the little inn on the river (they have pulled it down since that time), where gentlemen used to go to fish. He wasn't much noticed when he first came -- it was a common thing enough for gentlemen to travel from all parts of England to fish in our river
Did he make his appearance in the village before Anne was born
Yes, sir. Anne was born in the June month of eighteen hundred and twenty-seven -- and I think he came at the end of April or the beginning of May
Came as a stranger to all of you? A stranger to Mrs. Catherick as well as to the rest of the neighbours
So we thought at first, sir. But when the scandal broke out, nobody believed they were strangers. I remember how it happened as well as if it was yesterday. Catherick came into our garden one night, and woke us by throwing up a handful of gravel from the walk at our window. I heard him beg my husband, for the Lord's sake, to come down and speak to him. They were a long time together talking in the porch. When my husband came back upstairs he was all of a tremble. He sat down on the side of the bed and he says to me, 'Lizzie! I always told you that woman was a bad one -- I always said she would end ill, and I'm afraid in my own mind that the end has come already. Catherick has found a lot of lace handkerchiefs, and two fine rings, and a new gold watch and chain, hid away in his wife's drawer -- things that nobody but a born lady ought ever to have -- and his wife won't say how she came by them.' 'Does he think she stole them?' says I. 'No,' says he, 'stealing would be bad enough. But it's worse than that, she's had no chance of stealing such things as those, and she's not a woman to take them if she had. They're gifts, Lizzie -- there's her own initials engraved inside the watch -- and Catherick has seen her talking privately, and carrying on as no married woman should, with that gentleman in mourning, Sir Percival Glyde. Don't you say anything about it -- I've quieted Catherick for to-night. I've told him to keep his tongue to himself, and his eyes and his ears open, and to wait a day or two, till he can be quite certain.' 'I believe you are both of you wrong,' says I. 'It's not in nature, comfortable and respectable as she is here, that Mrs. Catherick should take up with a chance stranger like Sir Percival Glyde.' 'Ay, but is he a stranger to her?' says my husband. 'You forget how Catherick's wife came to marry him. She went to him of her own accord, after saying No over and over again when he asked her. There have been wicked women before her time, Lizzie, who have used honest men who loved them as a means of saving their characters, and I'm sorely afraid this Mrs. Catherick is as wicked as the worst of them. We shall see,' says my husband, 'we shall soon see.' And only two days afterwards we did see
Well, sir, Catherick took my husband's advice and waited
And as I told you, he hadn't long to wait. On the second day he found his wife and Sir Percival whispering together quite familiar, close under the vestry of the church. I suppose they thought the neighbourhood of the vestry was the last place in the world where anybody would think of looking after them, but, however that may be, there they were. Sir Percival, being seemingly surprised and confounded, defended himself in such a guilty way that poor Catherick (whose quick temper I have told you of already) fell into a kind of frenzy at his own disgrace, and struck Sir Percival. He was no match (and I am sorry to say it) for the man who had wronged him, and he was beaten in the cruelest manner, before the neighbours, who had come to the place on hearing the disturbance, could run in to part them. All this happened towards evening, and before nightfall, when my husband went to Catherick's house, he was gone, nobody knew where. No living soul in the village ever saw him again. He knew too well, by that time, what his wife's vile reason had been for marrying him, and he felt his misery and disgrace, especially after what had happened to him with Sir Percival, too keenly. The clergyman of the parish put an advertisement in the paper begging him to come back, and saying that he should not lose his situation or his friends. But Catherick had too much pride and spirit, as some people said -- too much feeling, as I think, sir -- to face his neighbours again, and try to live down the memory of his disgrace. My husband heard from him when he had left England, and heard a second time, when he was settled and doing well in America. He is alive there now, as far as I know, but none of us in the old country -- his wicked wife least of all -- are ever likely to set eyes on him again
What became of Sir Percival
Did he stay in the neighbourhood
Not he, sir. The place was too hot to hold him. He was heard at high words with Mrs. Catherick the same night when the scandal broke out, and the next morning he took himself off
And Mrs. Catherick? Surely she never remained in the village among the people who knew of her disgrace
She did, sir. She was hard enough and heartless enough to set the opinions of all her neighbours at flat defiance. She declared to everybody, from the clergyman downwards, that she was the victim of a dreadful mistake, and that all the scandal-mongers in the place should not drive her out of it, as if she was a guilty woman. All through my time she lived at Old Welmingham, and after my time, when the new town was building, and the respectable neighbours began moving to it, she moved too, as if she was determined to live among them and scandalise them to the very last. There she is now, and there she will stop, in defiance of the best of them, to her dying day
But how has she lived through all these years
Was her husband able and willing to help her
Both able and willing, sir
In the second letter he wrote to my good man, he said she had borne his name, and lived in his home, and, wicked as she was, she must not starve like a beggar in the street. He could afford to make her some small allowance, and she might draw for it quarterly at a place in London
Did she accept the allowance
Do you suppose that she had money of her own
Very little, if any, sir. It was said, and said truly, I am afraid, that her means of living came privately from Sir Percival Glyde
the gentleman in mourning
I suppose you often saw Sir Percival when he was in your village
Yes, sir, very often
Did you ever observe that Anne was like him
She was not at all like him, sir
Was she like her mother, then
Not like her mother either, sir. Mrs. Catherick was dark, and full in the face
When Sir Percival first arrived in your neighbourhood
did you hear where he had come from last
No, sir. Some said from Blackwater Park, and some said from Scotland -- but nobody knew
Was Mrs. Catherick living in service at Varneck Hall immediately before her marriage
Yes, sir
And had she been long in her place
Three or four years, sir; I am not quite certain which
Did you ever hear the name of the gentleman to whom Varneck Hall belonged at that time
Yes, sir. His name was Major Donthorne
Did Mr. Catherick, or did any one else you knew, ever hear that Sir Percival was a friend of Major Donthorne's, or ever see Sir Percival in the neighbourhood of Varneck Hall
Catherick never did, sir, that I can remember -- nor any one else either, that I know of
I have not heard yet
how the poor child, born in all this sin and misery, came to be trusted, Mrs. Clements, to your care
There was nobody else, sir, to take the little helpless creature in hand
The wicked mother seemed to hate it -- as if the poor baby was in fault!-- from the day it was born. My heart was heavy for the child, and I made the offer to bring it up as tenderly as if it was my own
Did Anne remain entirely under your care from that time
Not quite entirely, sir. Mrs. Catherick had her whims and fancies about it at times, and used now and then to lay claim to the child, as if she wanted to spite me for bringing it up. But these fits of hers never lasted for long. Poor little Anne was always returned to me, and was always glad to get back -- though she led but a gloomy life in my house, having no playmates, like other children, to brighten her up. Our longest separation was when her mother took her to Limmeridge. Just at that time I lost my husband, and I felt it was as well, in that miserable affliction, that Anne should not be in the house. She was between ten and eleven years old then, slow at her lessons, poor soul, and not so cheerful as other children -- but as pretty a little girl to look at as you would wish to see. I waited at home till her mother brought her back, and then I made the offer to take her with me to London -- the truth being, sir, that I could not find it in my heart to stop at Old Welmingham after my husband's death, the place was so changed and so dismal to me
And did Mrs. Catherick consent to your proposal
No, sir. She came back from the north harder and bitterer than ever. Folks did say that she had been obliged to ask Sir Percival's leave to go, to begin with; and that she only went to nurse her dying sister at Limmeridge because the poor woman was reported to have saved money -- the truth being that she hardly left enough to bury her. These things may have soured Mrs. Catherick likely enough, but however that may be, she wouldn't hear of my taking the child away. She seemed to like distressing us both by parting us. All I could do was to give Anne my direction, and to tell her privately, if she was ever in trouble, to come to me. But years passed before she was free to come. I never saw her again, poor soul, till the night she escaped from the mad-house
You know, Mrs. Clements, why Sir Percival Glyde shut her up
I only know what Anne herself told me, sir. The poor thing used to ramble and wander about it sadly. She said her mother had got some secret of Sir Percival's to keep, and had let it out to her long after I left Hampshire -- and when Sir Percival found she knew it, he shut her up. But she never could say what it was when I asked her. All she could tell me was, that her mother might be the ruin and destruction of Sir Percival if she chose. Mrs. Catherick may have let out just as much as that, and no more. I'm next to certain I should have heard the whole truth from Anne, if she had really known it as she pretended to do, and as she very likely fancied she did, poor soul
I am afraid you must have thought me very inquisitive
I have troubled you with more questions than many people would have cared to answer
You are heartily welcome, sir, to anything I can tell you
But I do wish
you could have told me a little more about Anne, sir. I thought I saw something in your face when you came in which looked as if you could. You can't think how hard it is not even to know whether she is living or dead. I could bear it better if I was only certain. You said you never expected we should see her alive again. Do you know, sir -- do you know for truth -- that it has pleased God to take her
I am afraid there is no doubt of the truth
I have the certainty in my own mind that her troubles in this world are over
Oh, sir
how do you know it? Who can have told you
No one has told me, Mrs. Clements. But I have reasons for feeling sure of it -- reasons which I promise you shall know as soon as I can safely explain them. I am certain she was not neglected in her last moments -- I am certain the heart complaint from which she suffered so sadly was the true cause of her death. You shall feel as sure of this as I do, soon -- you shall know, before long, that she is buried in a quiet country churchyard -- in a pretty, peaceful place, which you might have chosen for her yourself
Dead
dead so young, and I am left to hear it! I made her first short frocks. I taught her to walk. The first time she ever said Mother she said it to me -- and now I am left and Anne is taken! Did you say, sir
did you say that she had been nicely buried? Was it the sort of funeral she might have had if she had really been my own child
It would have broken my heart
if Anne had not been nicely buried -- but how do you know it, sir? who told you
You are sure to see me again
for I have a favour to ask when you are a little more composed -- perhaps in a day or two
Don't keep it waiting, sir, on my account
Never mind my crying if I can be of use. If you have anything on your mind to say to me, sir, please to say it now
I only wish to ask you one last question
I only want to know Mrs. Catherick's address at Welmingham
For the Lord's sake, sir
what do you want with Mrs. Catherick
I want this, Mrs. Clements
I want to know the secret of those private meetings of hers with Sir Percival Glyde. There is something more in what you have told me of that woman's past conduct, and of that man's past relations with her, than you or any of your neighbours ever suspected. There is a secret we none of us know between those two, and I am going to Mrs. Catherick with the resolution to find it out
Think twice about it, sir
She's an awful woman -- you don't know her as I do. Think twice about it
I am sure your warning is kindly meant, Mrs. Clements. But I am determined to see the woman, whatever comes of it
I see your mind is made up, sir
I will give you the address
You shall hear from me soon
you shall know all that I have promised to tell you
An old woman's advice is sometimes worth taking, sir
Think twice before you go to Welmingham
Try if you can rouse her
What are you thinking of, Laura? Tell me, my darling -- try and tell me what it is
I can't feel happy
I can't help thinking
Try to tell me
try to tell me why you are not happy
I am so useless -- I am such a burden on both of you
You work and get money, Walter, and Marian helps you. Why is there nothing I can do? You will end in liking Marian better than you like me -- you will, because I am so helpless! Oh, don't, don't, don't treat me like a child
You shall help us, Laura
you shall begin, my darling, to-day
You know that I work and get money by drawing
Now you have taken such pains, now you are so much improved, you shall begin to work and get money too. Try to finish this little sketch as nicely and prettily as you can. When it is done I will take it away with me, and the same person will buy it who buys all that I do. You shall keep your own earnings in your own purse, and Marian shall come to you to help us, as often as she comes to me. Think how useful you are going to make yourself to both of us, and you will soon be as happy, Laura, as the day is long
Surely, Walter
you hardly know enough yet to give you any hope of claiming Mrs. Catherick's confidence? Is it wise to proceed to these extremities, before you have really exhausted all safer and simpler means of attaining your object? When you told me that Sir Percival and the Count were the only two people in existence who knew the exact date of Laura's journey, you forgot, and I forgot, that there was a third person who must surely know it -- I mean Mrs. Rubelle. Would it not be far easier, and far less dangerous, to insist on a confession from her, than to force it from Sir Percival
It might be easier
but we are not aware of the full extent of Mrs. Rubelle's connivance and interest in the conspiracy, and we are therefore not certain that the date has been impressed on her mind, as it has been assuredly impressed on the minds of Sir Percival and the Count. It is too late, now, to waste the time on Mrs. Rubelle, which may be all-important to the discovery of the one assailable point in Sir Percival's life. Are you thinking a little too seriously, Marian, of the risk I may run in returning to Hampshire? Are you beginning to doubt whether Sir Percival Glyde may not in the end be more than a match for me
He will not be more than your match
because he will not be helped in resisting you by the impenetrable wickedness of the Count
What has led you to that conclusion
My own knowledge of Sir Percival's obstinacy and impatience of the Count's control
I believe he will insist on meeting you single-handed -- just as he insisted at first on acting for himself at Blackwater Park. The time for suspecting the Count's interference will be the time when you have Sir Percival at your mercy. His own interests will then be directly threatened, and he will act, Walter, to terrible purpose in his own defence
We may deprive him of his weapons beforehand
Some of the particulars I have heard from Mrs. Clements may yet be turned to account against him, and other means of strengthening the case may be at our disposal. There are passages in Mrs. Michelson's narrative which show that the Count found it necessary to place himself in communication with Mr. Fairlie, and there may be circumstances which compromise him in that proceeding. While I am away, Marian, write to Mr. Fairlie and say that you want an answer describing exactly what passed between the Count and himself, and informing you also of any particulars that may have come to his knowledge at the same time in connection with his niece. Tell him that the statement you request will, sooner or later, be insisted on, if he shows any reluctance to furnish you with it of his own accord
The letter shall be written, Walter. But are you really determined to go to Welmingham
Absolutely determined. I will devote the next two days to earning what we want for the week to come, and on the third day I go to Hampshire
Remember what anxious hearts you leave here
Remember all the hopes that hang on your safe return. If strange things happen to you on this journey -- if you and Sir Percival meet
What makes you think we shall meet
I don't know -- I have fears and fancies that I cannot account for. Laugh at them, Walter, if you like -- but, for God's sake, keep your temper if you come in contact with that man
Never fear, Marian! I answer for my self-control
Say, if you please, that my business relates to Mrs. Catherick's daughter
You have come to speak to me about my daughter
Be so good as to mention what you have to say
You are aware
that your daughter has been lost
I am perfectly aware of it
Have you felt any apprehension that the misfortune of her loss might be followed by the misfortune of her death
Yes. Have you come here to tell me she is dead
I have
Why
Why
Do you ask why I come here to tell you of your daughter's death
Yes. What interest have you in me, or in her? How do you come to know anything about my daughter
In this way. I met her on the night when she escaped from the Asylum, and I assisted her in reaching a place of safety
You did very wrong
I am sorry to hear her mother say so
Her mother does say so. How do you know she is dead
I am not at liberty to say how I know it -- but I DO know it
Are you at liberty to say how you found out my address
Certainly. I got your address from Mrs. Clements
Mrs. Clements is a foolish woman. Did she tell you to come here
She did not
Then, I ask you again, why did you come
I came
because I thought Anne Catherick's mother might have some natural interest in knowing whether she was alive or dead
Just so
Had you no other motive
If you have no other motive
I have only to thank you for your visit, and to say that I will not detain you here any longer. Your information would be more satisfactory if you were willing to explain how you became possessed of it. However, it justifies me, I suppose, in going into mourning. There is not much alteration necessary in my dress, as you see. When I have changed my mittens, I shall be all in black
I wish you good morning
I HAVE another motive in coming here
Ah! I thought so
Your daughter's death
What did she die of
Of disease of the heart
Yes. Go on
Your daughter's death has been made the pretext for inflicting serious injury on a person who is very dear to me. Two men have been concerned, to my certain knowledge, in doing that wrong. One of them is Sir Percival Glyde
Indeed
You may wonder
how the event of your daughter's death can have been made the means of inflicting injury on another person
No
I don't wonder at all. This appears to be your affair. You are interested in my affairs. I am not interested in yours
You may ask, then
why I mention the matter in your presence
Yes, I DO ask that
I mention it because I am determined to bring Sir Percival Glyde to account for the wickedness he has committed
What have I to do with your determination
You shall hear. There are certain events in Sir Percival's past life which it is necessary for my purpose to be fully acquainted with. YOU know them -- and for that reason I come to YOU
What events do you mean
Events that occurred at Old Welmingham when your husband was parish-clerk at that place, and before the time when your daughter was born
What do you know of those events
All that Mrs. Clements could tell me
Ah! I begin to understand it all now
You have got a grudge of your own against Sir Percival Glyde, and I must help you to wreak it. I must tell you this, that, and the other about Sir Percival and myself, must I? Yes, indeed? You have been prying into my private affairs. You think you have found a lost woman to deal with, who lives here on sufferance, and who will do anything you ask for fear you may injure her in the opinions of the town's-people. I see through you and your precious speculation -- I do! and it amuses me. Ha! ha
You don't know how I have lived in this place, and what I have done in this place, Mr. What's-your-name
I'll tell you, before I ring the bell and have you shown out. I came here a wronged woman -- I came here robbed of my character and determined to claim it back. I've been years and years about it -- and I HAVE claimed it back. I have matched the respectable people fairly and openly on their own ground. If they say anything against me now they must say it in secret -- they can't say it, they daren't say it, openly. I stand high enough in this town to be out of your reach. THE CLERGYMAN BOWS TO ME. Aha! you didn't bargain for that when you came here. Go to the church and inquire about me -- you will find Mrs. Catherick has her sitting like the rest of them, and pays the rent on the day it's due. Go to the town-hall. There's a petition lying there -- a petition of the respectable inhabitants against allowing a circus to come and perform here and corrupt our morals -- yes! OUR morals. I signed that petition this morning. Go to the bookseller's shop. The clergyman's Wednesday evening Lectures on Justification by Faith are publishing there by subscription -- I'm down on the list. The doctor's wife only put a shilling in the plate at our last charity sermon -- I put half-a-crown. Mr. Churchwarden Soward held the plate, and bowed to me. Ten years ago he told Pigrum the chemist I ought to be whipped out of the town at the cart's tail. Is your mother alive? Has she got a better Bible on her table than I have got on mine? Does she stand better with her trades-people than I do with mine? Has she always lived within her income? I have always lived within mine. Ah! there IS the clergyman coming along the square. Look, Mr. What's-your-name -- look, if you please
There
What do you think of that for a woman with a lost character? How does your speculation look now
How does your speculation look now
Exactly as it looked when I first came in
I don't doubt the position you have gained in the town, and I don't wish to assail it even if I could. I came here because Sir Percival Glyde is, to my certain knowledge, your enemy, as well as mine. If I have a grudge against him, you have a grudge against him too. You may deny it if you like, you may distrust me as much as you please, you may be as angry as you will -- but, of all the women in England, you, if you have any sense of injury, are the woman who ought to help me to crush that man
Crush him for yourself
then come back here, and see what I say to you
You won't trust me
No
You are afraid
Do I look as if I was
You are afraid of Sir Percival Glyde
Am I
Sir Percival has a high position in the world
it would be no wonder if you were afraid of him. Sir Percival is a powerful man, a baronet, the possessor of a fine estate, the descendant of a great family
Yes
A baronet, the possessor of a fine estate, the descendant of a great family. Yes, indeed! A great family -- especially by the mother's side
I am not here to dispute with you about family questions
I know nothing of Sir Percival's mother
And you know as little of Sir Percival himself
I advise you not to be too sure of that
I know some things about him, and I suspect many more
What do you suspect
I'll tell you what I DON'T suspect. I DON'T suspect him of being Anne's father
How dare you talk to me about Anne's father! How dare you say who was her father, or who wasn't
The secret between you and Sir Percival is not THAT secret
The mystery which darkens Sir Percival's life was not born with your daughter's birth, and has not died with your daughter's death
Go
There was no thought of the child in your heart or in his
There was no bond of guilty love between you and him when you held those stolen meetings, when your husband found you whispering together under the vestry of the church
the vestry of the church
Do you still refuse to trust me
I do refuse
Do you still tell me to go
Yes. Go -- and never come back
I may have news to bring you of Sir Percival which you don't expect
and in that case I shall come back
There is no news of Sir Percival that I don't expect, except
Except the news of his death
The Post-Office, Welmingham
especially by the mother's side
It's well you came so early, sir
I should have been away in ten minutes more. Parish business, sir, and a goodish long trot before it's all done for a man at my age. But, bless you, I'm strong on my legs still! As long as a man don't give at his legs, there's a deal of work left in him. Don't you think so yourself, sir
Nobody at home to keep house for me
My wife's in the churchyard there, and my children are all married. A wretched place this, isn't it, sir? But the parish is a large one -- every man couldn't get through the business as I do. It's learning does it, and I've had my share, and a little more. I can talk the Queen's English (God bless the Queen!), and that's more than most of the people about here can do. You're from London, I suppose, sir? I've been in London a matter of five-and- twenty year ago. What's the news there now, if you please
I'm obliged to bring you this way, sir
because the door from the vestry to the church is bolted on the vestry side. We might have got in through the church otherwise. This is a perverse lock, if ever there was one yet. It's big enough for a prison-door -- it's been hampered over and over again, and it ought to be changed for a new one. I've mentioned that to the churchwarden fifty times over at least -- he's always saying, 'I'll see about it'-- and he never does see. Ah, It's a sort of lost corner, this place. Not like London -- is it, sir? Bless you, we are all asleep here! We don't march with the times
We might be tidier, mightn't we, sir
but when you're in a lost corner of a place like this, what are you to do? Why, look here now, just look at these packing-cases. There they've been, for a year or more, ready to go down to London -- there they are, littering the place, and there they'll stop as long as the nails hold them together. I'll tell you what, sir, as I said before, this is not London. We are all asleep here. Bless you, WE don't march with the times
What is there in the packing-cases
Bits of old wood carvings from the pulpit, and panels from the chancel, and images from the organ-loft
Portraits of the twelve apostles in wood, and not a whole nose among 'em. All broken, and worm-eaten, and crumbling to dust at the edges. As brittle as crockery, sir, and as old as the church, if not older
And why were they going to London? To be repaired
That's it, sir, to be repaired, and where they were past repair, to be copied in sound wood. But, bless you, the money fell short, and there they are, waiting for new subscriptions, and nobody to subscribe. It was all done a year ago, sir. Six gentlemen dined together about it, at the hotel in the new town. They made speeches, and passed resolutions, and put their names down, and printed off thousands of prospectuses. Beautiful prospectuses, sir, all flourished over with Gothic devices in red ink, saying it was a disgrace not to restore the church and repair the famous carvings, and so on. There are the prospectuses that couldn't be distributed, and the architect's plans and estimates, and the whole correspondence which set everybody at loggerheads and ended in a dispute, all down together in that corner, behind the packing-cases. The money dribbled in a little at first -- but what CAN you expect out of London? There was just enough, you know, to pack the broken carvings, and get the estimates, and pay the printer's bill, and after that there wasn't a halfpenny left. There the things are, as I said before. We have nowhere else to put them -- nobody in the new town cares about accommodating us -- we're in a lost corner -- and this is an untidy vestry -- and who's to help it?-- that's what I want to know
Ay, ay, the marriage-register, to be sure
How far do you want to look back, sir
I want to begin with the year eighteen hundred and four
Which way after that, sir
Forwards to our time or backwards away from us
Backwards from eighteen hundred and four
Is that considered a sufficiently secure place for the register
Surely a book of such importance as this ought to be protected by a better lock, and kept carefully in an iron safe
Well, now, that's curious
Those were the very words my old master was always saying years and years ago, when I was a lad. 'Why isn't the register' (meaning this register here, under my hand)-- 'why isn't it kept in an iron safe?' If I've heard him say that once, I've heard him say it a hundred times. He was the solicitor in those days, sir, who had the appointment of vestry-clerk to this church. A fine hearty old gentleman, and the most particular man breathing. As long as he lived he kept a copy of this book in his office at Knowlesbury, and had it posted up regular, from time to time, to correspond with the fresh entries here. You would hardly think it, but he had his own appointed days, once or twice in every quarter, for riding over to this church on his old white pony, to check the copy, by the register, with his own eyes and hands. 'How do I know?' (he used to say) 'how do I know that the register in this vestry may not be stolen or destroyed? Why isn't it kept in an iron safe? Why can't I make other people as careful as I am myself? Some of these days there will be an accident happen, and when the register's lost, then the parish will find out the value of my copy.' He used to take his pinch of snuff after that, and look about him as bold as a lord. Ah! the like of him for doing business isn't easy to find now. You may go to London and not match him, even THERE. Which year did you say, sir? Eighteen hundred and what
Eighteen hundred and four
There it is, sir
There's the year you want
Cecilia Jane Elster, of Park-View Cottages, Knowlesbury, only daughter of the late Patrick Elster, Esq., formerly of Bath
Miss Elster of Knowlesbury
Have you found what you wanted, sir
Yes
but I have some inquiries still to make. I suppose the clergyman who officiated here in the year eighteen hundred and three is no longer alive
No, no, sir, he was dead three or four years before I came here, and that was as long ago as the year twenty-seven. I got this place, sir
through the clerk before me leaving it. They say he was driven out of house and home by his wife -- and she's living still down in the new town there. I don't know the rights of the story myself -- all I know is I got the place. Mr. Wansborough got it for me -- the son of my old master that I was tell you of. He's a free pleasant gentleman as ever lived -- rides to the hounds, keeps his pointers and all that. He's vestry-clerk here now as his father was before him
Did you not tell me your former master lived at Knowlesbury
Yes, to be sure, sir
Old Mr. Wansborough lived at Knowlesbury, and young Mr. Wansborough lives there too
You said just now he was vestry-clerk, like his father before him. I am not quite sure that I know what a vestry-clerk is
Don't you indeed, sir?-- and you come from London too! Every parish church, you know, has a vestry-clerk and a parish-clerk. The parish-clerk is a man like me (except that I've got a deal more learning than most of them -- though I don't boast of it). The vestry-clerk is a sort of an appointment that the lawyers get, and if there's any business to be done for the vestry, why there they are to do it. It's just the same in London. Every parish church there has got its vestry-clerk -- and you may take my word for it he's sure to be a lawyer
Then young Mr. Wansborough is a lawyer, I suppose
Of course he is, sir! A lawyer in High Street, Knowlesbury -- the old offices that his father had before him. The number of times I've swept those offices out, and seen the old gentleman come trotting in to business on his white pony, looking right and left all down the street and nodding to everybody! Bless you, he was a popular character!-- he'd have done in London
How far is it to Knowlesbury from this place
A long stretch, sir
Nigh on five mile, I can tell you
Thank you kindly, sir
Are you really going to walk all the way to Knowlesbury and back? Well! you're strong on your legs, too -- and what a blessing that is, isn't it? There's the road, you can't miss it. I wish I was going your way -- it's pleasant to meet with gentlemen from London in a lost corner like this. One hears the news. Wish you good-morning, sir, and thank you kindly once more
Drop your hold of my arms
and I will go with you to the town
Copy of the Marriage Register of Welmingham Parish Church. Executed under my orders, and afterwards compared, entry by entry, with the original, by myself. (Signed) Robert Wansborough, vestry-clerk
Extending from the first of January, 1800, to the thirtieth of June, 1815
Where are the keys
Have you taken them
What keys
I have this moment come from Knowlesbury. What keys do you mean
The keys of the vestry. Lord save us and help us! what shall I do? The keys are gone! Do you hear
the keys are gone
How? When? Who can have taken them
I don't know
I've only just got back. I told you I had a long day's work this morning -- I locked the door and shut the window down -- it's open now, the window's open. Look! somebody has got in there and taken the keys
Get another light
and let us both go to the vestry together. Quick! quick
I beg your pardon, Sir Percival
The darkness misleads you
I am not Sir Percival
I thought it was my master
You expected to meet your master here
I was told to wait in the lane
Who's that
Does he know anything about the keys
We won't wait to ask him
We will go on to the vestry first
I say, measter
there be summun up yander in the church. I heerd un lock the door on hisself -- I heerd un strike a loight wi' a match
Come! come
We are not too late. We will catch the man, whoever he is. Keep the lantern, and follow me as fast as you can
I don't mean any harm
I'm only looking for my master
Oh, my God
it's Sir Percival
The Lord have mercy on his soul
He is doomed and dead. He has hampered the lock
Try the other door
Try the door into the church! The lock's hampered. You're a dead man if you waste another moment on it
Stoop
and hold by the stones. I am going to climb over you to the roof -- I am going to break the skylight, and give him some air
The key of the church
We must try it that way -- we may save him yet if we can burst open the inner door
No, no, no
No hope! the church key and the vestry key are on the same ring -- both inside there! Oh, sir, he's past saving -- he's dust and ashes by this time
They'll see the fire from the town
There's a ingine in the town. They'll save the church
Have you got your pick-axes handy
And a hatchet, and a saw, and a bit of rope
Five shillings apiece to every man who helps me
Two of you for more lanterns, if you have them! Two of you for the pickaxes and the tools! The rest after me to find the beam
Where is he
He's dust and ashes
And the books are dust and ashes -- and oh, sirs! the church will be dust and ashes soon
Save the church
Where is he
Have they found him
Yes
Against the door, on his face
The door that goes into the church. His head was against it -- he was down on his face
No
Yes, it is
No, scorched, not burnt -- he lay on his face, I tell you
No, not a lord. SIR Something; Sir means Knight
And Baronight, too
No
Yes, it does
No good, you may depend on it
Burn himself on purpose
Is he dreadful to look at
Dreadful
No, no, not so much about the face. Don't anybody know him
There's a man says he does
A servant, they say. But he's struck stupid-like, and the police don't believe him
Don't anybody else know who it is
Hush
Where is the gentleman who tried to save him
Here, sir -- here he is
This way, sir, if you please
Do you know him, sir
Can you identify him, sir
There is no news of Sir Percival that I don't expect -- except the news of his death
Come, put your arm round my waist, and kiss me, if you like
Do me justice -- clear my character of a stain on it which you know I don't deserve. I don't want you to make a clean breast of it to my husband -- only tell him, on your word of honour as a gentleman, that he is wrong, and that I am not to blame in the way he thinks I am. Do me that justice, at least, after all I have done for you
a low impostor whom I could ruin for life if I chose to open my lips and let out his Secret
Leave us
Do you hear
leave the room
Speak to me civilly
Turn the idiot out
Beg my pardon, directly
or I'll make it the worse for you. I'll let out your Secret. I can ruin you for life if I choose to open my lips
Wednesday Lectures on Justification by Faith
No pauper Asylum
I won't have her put in a pauper Asylum. A Private Establishment, if you please. I have my feelings as a mother, and my character to preserve in the town, and I will submit to nothing but a Private Establishment, of the sort which my genteel neighbours would choose for afflicted relatives of their own
Come back as soon as you can. I have been obliged to move. Come to Gower's Walk, Fulham (number five). I will be on the look-out for you. Don't be alarmed about us, we are both safe and well. But come back.-- Marian
I had only a moment left before post-time
or I should have written less abruptly. You look worn and weary, Walter. I am afraid my letter must have seriously alarmed you
Only at first
My mind was quieted, Marian, by my trust in you. Was I right in attributing this sudden change of place to some threatened annoyance on the part of Count Fosco
Perfectly right
I saw him yesterday, and worse than that, Walter -- I spoke to him
Spoke to him? Did he know where we lived? Did he come to the house
He did. To the house -- but not upstairs. Laura never saw him -- Laura suspects nothing. I will tell you how it happened: the danger, I believe and hope, is over now. Yesterday, I was in the sitting-room, at our old lodgings. Laura was drawing at the table, and I was walking about and setting things to rights. I passed the window, and as I passed it, looked out into the street. There, on the opposite side of the way, I saw the Count, with a man talking to him
Did he notice you at the window
No -- at least, I thought not. I was too violently startled to be quite sure
Who was the other man? A stranger
Not a stranger, Walter. As soon as I could draw my breath again, I recognised him. He was the owner of the Lunatic Asylum
Was the Count pointing out the house to him
No, they were talking together as if they had accidentally met in the street. I remained at the window looking at them from behind the curtain. If I had turned round, and if Laura had seen my face at that moment ---- Thank God, she was absorbed over her drawing! They soon parted. The man from the Asylum went one way, and the Count the other. I began to hope they were in the street by chance, till I saw the Count come back, stop opposite to us again, take out his card-case and pencil, write something, and then cross the road to the shop below us. I ran past Laura before she could see me, and said I had forgotten something upstairs. As soon as I was out of the room I went down to the first landing and waited -- I was determined to stop him if he tried to come upstairs. He made no such attempt. The girl from the shop came through the door into the passage, with his card in her hand -- a large gilt card with his name, and a coronet above it, and these lines underneath in pencil: 'Dear lady' (yes! the villain could address me in that way still)--'dear lady, one word, I implore you, on a matter serious to us both.' If one can think at all, in serious difficulties, one thinks quick. I felt directly that it might be a fatal mistake to leave myself and to leave you in the dark, where such a man as the Count was concerned. I felt that the doubt of what he might do, in your absence, would be ten times more trying to me if I declined to see him than if I consented. 'Ask the gentleman to wait in the shop,' I said. 'I will be with him in a moment.' I ran upstairs for my bonnet, being determined not to let him speak to me indoors. I knew his deep ringing voice, and I was afraid Laura might hear it, even in the shop. In less than a minute I was down again in the passage, and had opened the door into the street. He came round to meet me from the shop. There he was in deep mourning, with his smooth bow and his deadly smile, and some idle boys and women near him, staring at his great size, his fine black clothes, and his large cane with the gold knob to it. All the horrible time at Blackwater came back to me the moment I set eyes on him. All the old loathing crept and crawled through me, when he took off his hat with a flourish and spoke to me, as if we had parted on the friendliest terms hardly a day since
You remember what he said
I can't repeat it, Walter. You shall know directly what he said about you --- but I can't repeat what he said to me. It was worse than the polite insolence of his letter. My hands tingled to strike him, as if I had been a man! I only kept them quiet by tearing his card to pieces under my shawl. Without saying a word on my side, I walked away from the house (for fear of Laura seeing us), and he followed, protesting softly all the way. In the first by-street I turned, and asked him what he wanted with me. He wanted two things. First, if I had no objection, to express his sentiments. I declined to hear them. Secondly, to repeat the warning in his letter. I asked, what occasion there was for repeating it. He bowed and smiled, and said he would explain. The explanation exactly confirmed the fears I expressed before you left us. I told you, if you remember, that Sir Percival would be too headstrong to take his friend's advice where you were concerned, and that there was no danger to be dreaded from the Count till his own interests were threatened, and he was roused into acting for himself
I recollect, Marian
Well, so it has really turned out. The Count offered his advice, but it was refused. Sir Percival would only take counsel of his own violence, his own obstinacy, and his own hatred of you. The Count let him have his way, first privately ascertaining, in case of his own interests being threatened next, where we lived. You were followed, Walter, on returning here, after your first journey to Hampshire, by the lawyer's men for some distance from the railway, and by the Count himself to the door of the house. How he contrived to escape being seen by you he did not tell me, but he found us out on that occasion, and in that way. Having made the discovery, he took no advantage of it till the news reached him of Sir Percival's death, and then, as I told you, he acted for himself, because he believed you would next proceed against the dead man's partner in the conspiracy. He at once made his arrangements to meet the owner of the Asylum in London, and to take him to the place where his runaway patient was hidden, believing that the results, whichever way they ended, would be to involve you in interminable legal disputes and difficulties, and to tie your hands for all purposes of offence, so far as he was concerned. That was his purpose, on his own confession to me. The only consideration which made him hesitate, at the last moment
Yes
It is hard to acknowledge it, Walter, and yet I must. I was the only consideration. No words can say how degraded I feel in my own estimation when I think of it, but the one weak point in that man's iron character is the horrible admiration he feels for me. I have tried, for the sake of my own self-respect, to disbelieve it as long as I could; but his looks, his actions, force on me the shameful conviction of the truth. The eyes of that monster of wickedness moistened while he was speaking to me -- they did, Walter! He declared that at the moment of pointing out the house to the doctor, he thought of my misery if I was separated from Laura, of my responsibility if I was called on to answer for effecting her escape, and he risked the worst that you could do to him, the second time, for my sake. All he asked was that I would remember the sacrifice, and restrain your rashness, in my own interests -- interests which he might never be able to consult again. I made no such bargain with him -- I would have died first. But believe him or not, whether it is true or false that he sent the doctor away with an excuse, one thing is certain, I saw the man leave him without so much as a glance at our window, or even at our side of the way
I believe it, Marian. The best men are not consistent in good -- why should the worst men be consistent in evil? At the same time, I suspect him of merely attempting to frighten you, by threatening what he cannot really do. I doubt his power of annoying us, by means of the owner of the Asylum, now that Sir Percival is dead, and Mrs. Catherick is free from all control. But let me hear more. What did the Count say of me
He spoke last of you. His eyes brightened and hardened, and his manner changed to what I remember it in past times -- to that mixture of pitiless resolution and mountebank mockery which makes it so impossible to fathom him. 'Warn Mr. Hartright!' he said in his loftiest manner. 'He has a man of brains to deal with, a man who snaps his big fingers at the laws and conventions of society, when he measures himself with ME. If my lamented friend had taken my advice, the business of the inquest would have been with the body of Mr. Hartright. But my lamented friend was obstinate. See! I mourn his loss -- inwardly in my soul, outwardly on my hat. This trivial crape expresses sensibilities which I summon Mr. Hartright to respect. They may be transformed to immeasurable enmities if he ventures to disturb them. Let him be content with what he has got -- with what I leave unmolested, for your sake, to him and to you. Say to him (with my compliments), if he stirs me, he has Fosco to deal with. In the English of the Popular Tongue, I inform him -- Fosco sticks at nothing. Dear lady, good morning.' His cold grey eyes settled on my face -- he took off his hat solemnly -- bowed, bare-headed -- and left me
Without returning? without saying more last words
He turned at the corner of the street, and waved his hand, and then struck it theatrically on his breast. I lost sight of him after that. He disappeared in the opposite direction to our house, and I ran back to Laura. Before I was indoors again, I had made up my mind that we must go. The house (especially in your absence) was a place of danger instead of a place of safety, now that the Count had discovered it. If I could have felt certain of your return, I should have risked waiting till you came back. But I was certain of nothing, and I acted at once on my own impulse. You had spoken, before leaving us, of moving into a quieter neighbourhood and purer air, for the sake of Laura's health. I had only to remind her of that, and to suggest surprising you and saving you trouble by managing the move in your absence, to make her quite as anxious for the change as I was. She helped me to pack up your things, and she has arranged them all for you in your new working-room here
What made you think of coming to this place
My ignorance of other localities in the neighbourhood of London. I felt the necessity of getting as far away as possible from our old lodgings, and I knew something of Fulham, because I had once been at school there. I despatched a messenger with a note, on the chance that the school might still be in existence. It was in existence -- the daughters of my old mistress were carrying it on for her, and they engaged this place from the instructions I had sent. It was just post-time when the messenger returned to me with the address of the house. We moved after dark -- we came here quite unobserved. Have I done right, Walter? Have I justified your trust in me
Not many weeks have passed, Marian
since my interview with Mr. Kyrle. When he and I parted, the last words I said to him about Laura were these: 'Her uncle's house shall open to receive her, in the presence of every soul who followed the false funeral to the grave; the lie that records her death shall be publicly erased from the tombstone by the authority of the head of the family, and the two men who have wronged her shall answer for their crime to ME, though the justice that sits in tribunals is powerless to pursue them.' One of those men is beyond mortal reach. The other remains, and my resolution remains
I don't disguise from myself, or from you
that the prospect before us is more than doubtful. The risks we have run already are, it may be, trifles compared with the risks that threaten us in the future, but the venture shall be tried, Marian, for all that. I am not rash enough to measure myself against such a man as the Count before I am well prepared for him. I have learnt patience -- I can wait my time. Let him believe that his message has produced its effect -- let him know nothing of us, and hear nothing of us -- let us give him full time to feel secure -- his own boastful nature, unless I seriously mistake him, will hasten that result. This is one reason for waiting, but there is another more important still. My position, Marian, towards you and towards Laura ought to be a stronger one than it is now before I try our last chance
How can it be stronger
I will tell you
when the time comes. It has not come yet -- it may never come at all. I may be silent about it to Laura for ever -- I must be silent now, even to YOU, till I see for myself that I can harmlessly and honourably speak. Let us leave that subject. There is another which has more pressing claims on our attention. You have kept Laura, mercifully kept her, in ignorance of her husband's death
Oh, Walter, surely it must be long yet before we tell her of it
No, Marian. Better that you should reveal it to her now, than that accident, which no one can guard against, should reveal it to her at some future time. Spare her all the details -- break it to her very tenderly, but tell her that he is dead
You have a reason, Walter, for wishing her to know of her husband's death besides the reason you have just mentioned
I have
A reason connected with that subject which must not be mentioned between us yet?-- which may never be mentioned to Laura at all
I think I understand
I think I owe it to her and to you, Walter, to tell her of her husband's death
the late Sir Percival Glyde, of Blackwater Park
the late Mr. Philip Fairlie, of Limmeridge House
plain-looking
entrapped the handsomest man in England into marrying her
The sins of the fathers shall be visited on the children
Oh, if I could die, and be hidden and at rest with YOU
Oh, if I could only be buried with your mother! If I could only wake at her side when the angel's trumpet sounds and the graves give up their dead at the resurrection
You are thinking of that subject which was mentioned between us on the evening of your return from Hampshire
I have been expecting you to allude to it for some time past. There must be a change in our little household, Walter, we cannot go on much longer as we are now. I see it as plainly as you do -- as plainly as Laura sees it, though she says nothing. How strangely the old times in Cumberland seem to have come back! You and I are together again, and the one subject of interest between us is Laura once more. I could almost fancy that this room is the summer-house at Limmeridge, and that those waves beyond us are beating on our seashore
I was guided by your advice in those past days
and now, Marian, with reliance tenfold greater I will be guided by it again
Whatever comes of this confidence between us
whether it ends happily or sorrowfully for ME, Laura's interests will still be the interests of my life. When we leave this place, on whatever terms we leave it, my determination to wrest from Count Fosco the confession which I failed to obtain from his accomplice, goes back with me to London, as certainly as I go back myself. Neither you nor I can tell how that man may turn on me, if I bring him to bay; we only know, by his own words and actions, that he is capable of striking at me through Laura, without a moment's hesitation, or a moment's remorse. In our present position I have no claim on her which society sanctions, which the law allows, to strengthen me in resisting him, and in protecting HER. This places me at a serious disadvantage. If I am to fight our cause with the Count, strong in the consciousness of Laura's safety, I must fight it for my Wife. Do you agree to that, Marian, so far
To every word of it
I will not plead out of my own heart
I will not appeal to the love which has survived all changes and all shocks -- I will rest my only vindication of myself for thinking of her, and speaking of her as my wife, on what I have just said. If the chance of forcing a confession from the Count is, as I believe it to be, the last chance left of publicly establishing the fact of Laura's existence, the least selfish reason that I can advance for our marriage is recognised by us both. But I may be wrong in my conviction -- other means of achieving our purpose may be in our power, which are less uncertain and less dangerous. I have searched anxiously, in my own mind, for those means, and I have not found them. Have you
No. I have thought about it too, and thought in vain
In all likelihood
the same questions have occurred to you, in considering this difficult subject, which have occurred to me. Ought we to return with her to Limmeridge, now that she is like herself again, and trust to the recognition of her by the people of the village, or by the children at the school? Ought we to appeal to the practical test of her handwriting? Suppose we did so. Suppose the recognition of her obtained, and the identity of the handwriting established. Would success in both those cases do more than supply an excellent foundation for a trial in a court of law? Would the recognition and the handwriting prove her identity to Mr. Fairlie and take her back to Limmeridge House, against the evidence of her aunt, against the evidence of the medical certificate, against the fact of the funeral and the fact of the inscription on the tomb? No! We could only hope to succeed in throwing a serious doubt on the assertion of her death, a doubt which nothing short of a legal inquiry can settle. I will assume that we possess (what we have certainly not got) money enough to carry this inquiry on through all its stages. I will assume that Mr. Fairlie's prejudices might be reasoned away -- that the false testimony of the Count and his wife, and all the rest of the false testimony, might be confuted -- that the recognition could not possibly be ascribed to a mistake between Laura and Anne Catherick, or the handwriting be declared by our enemies to be a clever fraud -- all these are assumptions which, more or less, set plain probabilities at defiance; but let them pass -- and let us ask ourselves what would be the first consequence or the first questions put to Laura herself on the subject of the conspiracy. We know only too well what the consequence would be, for we know that she has never recovered her memory of what happened to her in London. Examine her privately, or examine her publicly, she is utterly incapable of assisting the assertion of her own case. If you don't see this, Marian, as plainly as I see it, we will go to Limmeridge and try the experiment to-morrow
I DO see it, Walter. Even if we had the means of paying all the law expenses, even if we succeeded in the end, the delays would be unendurable, the perpetual suspense, after what we have suffered already, would be heartbreaking. You are right about the hopelessness of going to Limmeridge. I wish I could feel sure that you are right also in determining to try that last chance with the Count. IS it a chance at all
Beyond a doubt, Yes. It is the chance of recovering the lost date of Laura's journey to London. Without returning to the reasons I gave you some time since, I am still as firmly persuaded as ever that there is a discrepancy between the date of that journey and the date on the certificate of death. There lies the weak point of the whole conspiracy -- it crumbles to pieces if we attack it in that way, and the means of attacking it are in possession of the Count. If I succeed in wresting them from him, the object of your life and mine is fulfilled. If I fail, the wrong that Laura has suffered will, in this world, never be redressed
Do you fear failure yourself, Walter
I dare not anticipate success, and for that very reason, Marian, I speak openly and plainly as I have spoken now. In my heart and my conscience I can say it, Laura's hopes for the future are at their lowest ebb. I know that her fortune is gone -- I know that the last chance of restoring her to her place in the world lies at the mercy of her worst enemy, of a man who is now absolutely unassailable, and who may remain unassailable to the end. With every worldly advantage gone from her, with all prospect of recovering her rank and station more than doubtful, with no clearer future before her than the future which her husband can provide, the poor drawing-master may harmlessly open his heart at last. In the days of her prosperity, Marian, I was only the teacher who guided her hand -- I ask for it, in her adversity, as the hand of my wife
Walter
I once parted you both, for your good and for hers. Wait here, my brother!-- wait, my dearest, best friend, till Laura comes, and tells you what I have done now
My darling
we may own we love each other now
Oh
I am so happy at last
not having crossed the frontiers of his native country for years past
anxious to know if any Italian gentlemen were settled in the nearest town to Blackwater Park
receiving letters with all sorts of odd stamps on them, and one with a large official-looking seal on it
the large official- looking seal
Come out on my little finger, my pret-pret-pretties
Come out and hop upstairs! One, two, three -- and up! Three, two, one -- and down! One, two, three -- twit-twit-twit-tweet
Come, kiss me, my pretties
My poor little man
you look hungry. In the sacred name of humanity, I offer you some lunch
Opera Box- office
Are you ready
Right-all-right
Bravo! Bra-a-a-a
Yes! yes! these barbarous English people are learning something from ME. Here, there, and everywhere, I -- Fosco -- am an influence that is felt, a man who sits supreme
Do you know that man
Which man, my friend
The tall, fat man, standing there, with his face towards us
No
The big fat man is a stranger to me. Is he famous? Why do you point him out
Because I have particular reasons for wishing to know something of him. He is a countryman of yours -- his name is Count Fosco. Do you know that name
Not I, Walter. Neither the name nor the man is known to me
Are you quite sure you don't recognise him? Look again -- look carefully. I will tell you why I am so anxious about it when we leave the theatre. Stop! let me help you up here, where you can see him better
No
I have never set my two eyes on that big fat man before in all my life
How the fat man stares
Is it at ME? Am I famous? How can he know me when I don't know him
Come home
come home, Pesca to your lodgings. I must speak to you in private -- I must speak directly
My-soul-bless-my-soul
What on earth is the matter
My friend, what can I do
Deuce-what-the-deuce! how can I help you, Walter, when I don't know the man
HE knows YOU -- he is afraid of you -- he has left the theatre to escape you. Pesca! there must be a reason for this. Look back into your own life before you came to England. You left Italy, as you have told me yourself, for political reasons. You have never mentioned those reasons to me, and I don't inquire into them now. I only ask you to consult your own recollections, and to say if they suggest no past cause for the terror which the first sight of you produced in that man
Walter
You don't know what you ask
Forgive me, if I have unintentionally pained and shocked you
Remember the cruel wrong my wife has suffered at Count Fosco's hands. Remember that the wrong can never be redressed, unless the means are in my power of forcing him to do her justice. I spoke in HER interests, Pesca -- I ask you again to forgive me -- I can say no more
Wait
You have shaken me from head to foot. You don't know how I left my country, and why I left my country. Let me compose myself, let me think, if I can
On your heart and soul, Walter
is there no other way to get to that man but the chance-way through ME
There is no other way
You won your right over me, Walter
on the day when you saved my life. It was yours from that moment, when you pleased to take it. Take it now. Yes! I mean what I say. My next words, as true as the good God is above us, will put my life into your hands
Mind this
I hold no thread, in my own mind, between that man Fosco, and the past time which I call back to me for your sake. If you find the thread, keep it to yourself -- tell me nothing -- on my knees I beg and pray, let me be ignorant, let me be innocent, let me be blind to all the future as I am now
You know nothing of my motive for leaving Italy
except that it was for political reasons. If I had been driven to this country by the persecution of my government, I should not have kept those reasons a secret from you or from any one. I have concealed them because no government authority has pronounced the sentence of my exile. You have heard, Walter, of the political societies that are hidden in every great city on the continent of Europe? To one of those societies I belonged in Italy -- and belong still in England. When I came to this country, I came by the direction of my chief. I was over-zealous in my younger time -- I ran the risk of compromising myself and others. For those reasons I was ordered to emigrate to England and to wait. I emigrated -- I have waited -- I wait still. To-morrow I may be called away -- ten years hence I may be called away. It is all one to me -- I am here, I support myself by teaching, and I wait. I violate no oath (you shall hear why presently) in making my confidence complete by telling you the name of the society to which I belong. All I do is to put my life in your hands. If what I say to you now is ever known by others to have passed my lips, as certainly as we two sit here, I am a dead man
The Brotherhood
The object of the Brotherhood
is, briefly, the object of other political societies of the same sort -- the destruction of tyranny and the assertion of the rights of the people. The principles of the Brotherhood are two. So long as a man's life is useful, or even harmless only, he has the right to enjoy it. But, if his life inflicts injury on the well-being of his fellow-men, from that moment he forfeits the right, and it is not only no crime, but a positive merit, to deprive him of it. It is not for me to say in what frightful circumstances of oppression and suffering this society took its rise. It is not for you to say -- you Englishmen, who have conquered your freedom so long ago, that you have conveniently forgotten what blood you shed, and what extremities you proceeded to in the conquering -- it is not for you to say how far the worst of all exasperations may, or may not, carry the maddened men of an enslaved nation. The iron that has entered into our souls has gone too deep for you to find it. Leave the refugee alone! Laugh at him, distrust him, open your eyes in wonder at that secret self which smoulders in him, sometimes under the every-day respectability and tranquillity of a man like me -- sometimes under the grinding poverty, the fierce squalor, of men less lucky, less pliable, less patient than I am -- but judge us not! In the time of your first Charles you might have done us justice -- the long luxury of your own freedom has made you incapable of doing us justice now
So far
you think the society like other societies. Its object (in your English opinion) is anarchy and revolution. It takes the life of a bad king or a bad minister, as if the one and the other were dangerous wild beasts to be shot at the first opportunity. I grant you this. But the laws of the Brotherhood are the laws of no other political society on the face of the earth. The members are not known to one another. There is a president in Italy; there are presidents abroad. Each of these has his secretary. The presidents and the secretaries know the members, but the members, among themselves, are all strangers, until their chiefs see fit, in the political necessity of the time, or in the private necessity of the society, to make them known to each other. With such a safeguard as this there is no oath among us on admittance. We are identified with the Brotherhood by a secret mark, which we all bear, which lasts while our lives last. We are told to go about our ordinary business, and to report ourselves to the president, or the secretary, four times a year, in the event of our services being required. We are warned, if we betray the Brotherhood, or if we injure it by serving other interests, that we die by the principles of the Brotherhood -- die by the hand of a stranger who may be sent from the other end of the world to strike the blow -- or by the hand of our own bosom-friend, who may have been a member unknown to us through all the years of our intimacy. Sometimes the death is delayed -- sometimes it follows close on the treachery. It is our first business to know how to wait -- our second business to know how to obey when the word is spoken. Some of us may wait our lives through, and may not be wanted. Some of us may be called to the work, or to the preparation for the work, the very day of our admission. I myself -- the little, easy, cheerful man you know, who, of his own accord, would hardly lift up his handkerchief to strike down the fly that buzzes about his face -- I, in my younger time, under provocation so dreadful that I will not tell you of it, entered the Brotherhood by an impulse, as I might have killed myself by an impulse. I must remain in it now -- it has got me, whatever I may think of it in my better circumstances and my cooler manhood, to my dying day. While I was still in Italy I was chosen secretary, and all the members of that time, who were brought face to face with my president, were brought face to face also with me
You have drawn your own conclusion already
I see it in your face. Tell me nothing -- keep me out of the secret of your thoughts. Let me make my one last sacrifice of myself, for your sake, and then have done with this subject, never to return to it again
I promised you that this confidence should be complete
Whatever comes of it you shall not reproach me with having hidden anything from you which it was necessary to your interests to know. I have said that the Brotherhood identifies its members by a mark that lasts for life. See the place, and the mark on it for yourself
A man who has this mark, branded in this place
I will keep the memory of to-night in my heart of hearts
You shall never repent the trust you have reposed in me. May I come to you to-morrow? May I come as early as nine o'clock
Yes, Walter
Come to my little bit of breakfast before I go my ways among the pupils that I teach
Good-night, Pesca
Good-night, my friend
The man whom I pointed out to you at the Opera is a member of the Brotherhood, and has been false to his trust. Put both these assertions to the test instantly. You know the name he goes by in England. His address is No. 5 Forest Road, St. John's Wood. On the love you once bore me, use the power entrusted to you without mercy and without delay against that man. I have risked all and lost all -- and the forfeit of my failure has been paid with my life
Keep the enclosure unopened until nine o'clock to-morrow morning. If you do not hear from me, or see me, before that time, break the seal when the clock strikes, and read the contents
How early you are back
You must have come away before the Opera was over
Yes
neither Pesca nor I waited for the end. Where is Laura
She had one of her bad headaches this evening, and I advised her to go to bed when we had done tea
God bless and keep you, my darling
The landlord's son has brought this for you
He has got a cab at the door -- he says you ordered him to keep it at your disposal
Quite right, Marian. I want the cab -- I am going out again
Your letter is received. If I don't see you before the time you mention, I will break the seal when the clock strikes
I see
You are trying the last chance to-night
Yes, the last chance and the best
Not alone! Oh, Walter, for God's sake, not alone! Let me go with you. Don't refuse me because I'm only a woman. I must go! I will go! I'll wait outside in the cab
If you want to help me
stop here and sleep in my wife's room to-night. Only let me go away with my mind easy about Laura, and I answer for everything else. Come, Marian, give me a kiss, and show that you have the courage to wait till I come back
Forest Road, St. John's Wood
Double fare if you get there in a quarter of an hour
I'll do it, sir
On important business
pleased to want
Be so good as to take that to your master
Her master's compliments, and would I be so obliging as to say what my business was
Take my compliments back
and say that the business cannot be mentioned to any one but your master
You come here on business, sir
I am at a loss to know what that business can possibly he
I am fortunate in finding you here to-night
You seem to be on the point of taking a journey
Is your business connected with my journey
In some degree
In what degree? Do you know where I am going to
No. I only know why you are leaving London
You and I, Mr. Hartright, are excellently well acquainted with one another by reputation
Did it, by any chance, occur to you when you came to this house that I was not the sort of man you could trifle with
It did occur to me
And I have not come to trifle with you. I am here on a matter of life and death, and if that door which you have locked was open at this moment, nothing you could say or do would induce me to pass through it
On a matter of life and death
Those words are more serious, perhaps, than you think. What do you mean
What I say
So you know why I am leaving London
Tell me the reason, if you please
I can do better than that
I can SHOW you the reason, if you like
How can you show it
You have got your coat off
Roll up the shirt-sleeve on your left arm, and you will see it there
Wait a little
You have got the door locked -- you see I don't move -- you see my hands are empty. Wait a little. I have something more to say
You have said enough
I want one moment for my own thoughts, if you please. Do you guess what I am thinking about
Perhaps I do
I am thinking
whether I shall add to the disorder in this room by scattering your brains about the fireplace
I advise you to read two lines of writing which I have about me
before you finally decide that question
Your letter is received. If I don't hear from you before the time you mention, I will break the seal when the clock strikes
I don't lock up my drawer, Mr. Hartright
and I don't say that I may not scatter your brains about the fireplace yet. But I am a just man even to my enemy, and I will acknowledge beforehand that they are cleverer brains than I thought them. Come to the point, sir! You want something of me
I do, and I mean to have it
On conditions
On no conditions
Bah! we are travelling in a circle
and those clever brains of yours are in danger again. Your tone is deplorably imprudent, sir -- moderate it on the spot! The risk of shooting you on the place where you stand is less to me than the risk of letting you out of this house, except on conditions that I dictate and approve. You have not got my lamented friend to deal with now -- you are face to face with Fosco! If the lives of twenty Mr. Hartrights were the stepping-stones to my safety, over all those stones I would go, sustained by my sublime indifference, self- balanced by my impenetrable calm. Respect me, if you love your own life! I summon you to answer three questions before you open your lips again. Hear them -- they are necessary to this interview. Answer them -- they are necessary to ME
First question
You come here possessed of information which may be true or may be false -- where did you get it
I decline to tell you
No matter -- I shall find out. If that information is true -- mind I say, with the whole force of my resolution, if -- you are making your market of it here by treachery of your own or by treachery of some other man. I note that circumstance for future use in my memory, which forgets nothing, and proceed
Second question! Those lines you invited me to read are without signature. Who wrote them
A man whom I have every reason to depend on, and whom you have every reason to fear
How long do you give me
before the clock strikes and the seal is broken
Time enough for you to come to my terms
Give me a plainer answer, Mr. Hartright. What hour is the clock to strike
Nine, to-morrow morning
Nine, to-morrow morning? Yes, yes -- your trap is laid for me before I can get my passport regulated and leave London. It is not earlier, I suppose? We will see about that presently -- I can keep you hostage here, and bargain with you to send for your letter before I let you go. In the meantime, be so good next as to mention your terms
You shall hear them. They are simple, and soon stated. You know whose interests I represent in coming here
I consent to hazard a guess
A lady's interests, of course
My Wife's interests
You are well enough aware
of the course which my inquiries have taken for many months past, to know that any attempted denial of plain facts will be quite useless in my presence. You are guilty of an infamous conspiracy! And the gain of a fortune of ten thousand pounds was your motive for it
Keep your gain
Gently, Mr. Hartright. Your moral clap-traps have an excellent effect in England -- keep them for yourself and your own countrymen, if you please. The ten thousand pounds was a legacy left to my excellent wife by the late Mr. Fairlie. Place the affair on those grounds, and I will discuss it if you like. To a man of my sentiments, however, the subject is deplorably sordid. I prefer to pass it over. I invite you to resume the discussion of your terms. What do you demand
In the first place, I demand a full confession of the conspiracy, written and signed in my presence by yourself
One
In the second place, I demand a plain proof, which does not depend on your personal asseveration, of the date at which my wife left Blackwater Park and travelled to London
So! so! you can lay your finger, I see, on the weak place
Any more
At present, no more
Good! you have mentioned your terms, now listen to mine. The responsibility to myself of admitting what you are pleased to call the 'conspiracy' is less, perhaps, upon the whole, than the responsibility of laying you dead on that hearthrug. Let us say that I meet your proposal -- on my own conditions. The statement you demand of me shall be written, and the plain proof shall be produced. You call a letter from my late lamented friend informing me of the day and hour of his wife's arrival in London, written, signed, and dated by himself, a proof, I suppose? I can give you this. I can also send you to the man of whom I hired the carriage to fetch my visitor from the railway, on the day when she arrived -- his order-book may help you to your date, even if his coachman who drove me proves to be of no use. These things I can do, and will do, on conditions. I recite them. First condition! Madame Fosco and I leave this house when and how we please, without interference of any kind on your part. Second condition! You wait here, in company with me, to see my agent, who is coming at seven o'clock in the morning to regulate my affairs. You give my agent a written order to the man who has got your sealed letter to resign his possession of it. You wait here till my agent places that letter unopened in my hands, and you then allow me one clear half-hour to leave the house -- after which you resume your own freedom of action and go where you please. Third condition! You give me the satisfaction of a gentleman for your intrusion into my private affairs, and for the language you have allowed yourself to use to me at this conference. The time and place, abroad, to be fixed in a letter from my hand when I am safe on the Continent, and that letter to contain a strip of paper measuring accurately the length of my sword. Those are my terms. Inform me if you accept them -- Yes or No
I accept your conditions
With one reservation on my part
What reservation may that be
It refers to the sealed letter
I require you to destroy it unopened in my presence as soon as it is placed in your hands
I grant your reservation
It is not worth dispute -- the letter shall be destroyed when it comes into my hands
Ouf
the skirmish was hot while it lasted. Take a seat, Mr. Hartright. We meet as mortal enemies here-after -- let us, like gallant gentlemen, exchange polite attentions in the meantime. Permit me to take the liberty of calling for my wife
Eleanor
Madame Fosco -- Mr. Hartright
My angel
will your labours of packing up allow you time to make me some nice strong coffee? I have writing business to transact with Mr. Hartright -- and I require the full possession of my intelligence to do justice to myself
I shall make this a remarkable document
Habits of literary composition are perfectly familiar to me. One of the rarest of all the intellectual accomplishments that a man can possess is the grand faculty of arranging his ideas. Immense privilege! I possess it. Do you
May I offer you some coffee, Mr. Hartright
What! you think I shall poison you
The English intellect is sound, so far as it goes
but it has one grave defect -- it is always cautious in the wrong place
Bravo
Done, Mr. Hartright
Done, to my own profound satisfaction -- to YOUR profound astonishment, when you read what I have written. The subject is exhausted: the man -- Fosco -- is not. I proceed to the arrangement of my slips -- to the revision of my slips -- to the reading of my slips -- addressed emphatically to your private ear. Four o'clock has just struck. Good! Arrangement, revision, reading, from four to five. Short snooze of restoration for myself from five to six. Final preparations from six to seven. Affair of agent and sealed letter from seven to eight. At eight, en route. Behold the programme
A quarter-past five
Time for my restorative snooze. I personally resemble Napoleon the Great, as you may have remarked, Mr. Hartright -- I also resemble that immortal man in my power of commanding sleep at will. Excuse me one moment. I will summon Madame Fosco, to keep you from feeling dull
Amuse Mr. Hartright, my angel
I have been listening to your conversation with my husband
If I had been in HIS place -- I would have laid you dead on the hearthrug
I feel infinitely refreshed
Eleanor, my good wife, are you all ready upstairs? That is well. My little packing here can be completed in ten minutes -- my travelling-dress assumed in ten minutes more. What remains before the agent comes
Ah
a last laceration of my sympathies still remains. My innocent pets! my little cherished children! what am I to do with them? For the present we are settled nowhere; for the present we travel incessantly -- the less baggage we carry the better for ourselves. My cockatoo, my canaries, and my little mice -- who will cherish them when their good Papa is gone
An idea
I will offer my canaries and my cockatoo to this vast Metropolis -- my agent shall present them in my name to the Zoological Gardens of London. The Document that describes them shall be drawn out on the spot
Number one. Cockatoo of transcendent plumage: attraction, of himself, to all visitors of taste. Number two. Canaries of unrivalled vivacity and intelligence: worthy of the garden of Eden, worthy also of the garden in the Regent's Park. Homage to British Zoology. Offered by Fosco
Count! you have not included the mice
All human resolution, Eleanor
has its limits. MY limits are inscribed on that Document. I cannot part with my white mice. Bear with me, my angel, and remove them to their travelling cage upstairs
Admirable tenderness
Mr. Hartright -- Monsieur Rubelle
Monsieur Rubelle
to the bearer
I thought so
I perform my promise
but this matter, Mr. Hartright, shall not end here
Follow me as far as the passage
I may want to speak to you at the last moment
Remember the Third condition
You shall hear from me, Mr. Hartright -- I may claim from you the satisfaction of a gentleman sooner than you think for
One word more
When I last saw Miss Halcombe, she looked thin and ill. I am anxious about that admirable woman. Take care of her, sir! With my hand on my heart, I solemnly implore you, take care of Miss Halcombe
You wait here with me, sir, for half an hour more
I do
Marian
Miss Halcombe
Lady Glyde
Lady Glyde
Lady Glyde
livery stables
July 26th, 1850
Brougham to Count Fosco, 5 Forest Road. Two o'clock. (John Owen
John Owen
Do you remember driving a gentleman, in the month of July last, from Number Five Forest Road to the Waterloo Bridge station
Well, sir
I can't exactly say I do
Perhaps you remember the gentleman himself? Can you call to mind driving a foreigner last summer -- a tall gentleman and remarkably fat
I remember him, sir! The fattest gentleman as ever I see, and the heaviest customer as ever I drove. Yes, yes -- I call him to mind, sir! We DID go to the station, and it WAS from Forest Road. There was a parrot, or summat like it, screeching in the window. The gentleman was in a mortal hurry about the lady's luggage, and he gave me a handsome present for looking sharp and getting the boxes
Did you see the lady
What did she look like? Was she young or old
Well, sir, what with the hurry and the crowd of people pushing about, I can't rightly say what the lady looked like. I can't call nothing to mind about her that I know of excepting her name
You remember her name
Yes, sir. Her name was Lady Glyde
How do you come to remember that, when you have forgotten what she looked like
Why, to tell you the truth, sir
I hadn't been long married at that time, and my wife's name, before she changed it for mine, was the same as the lady's -- meaning the name of Glyde, sir. The lady mentioned it herself. 'Is your name on your boxes, ma'am?' says I. 'Yes,' says she, 'my name is on my luggage -- it is Lady Glyde.' 'Come!' I says to myself, 'I've a bad head for gentlefolks' names in general -- but THIS one comes like an old friend, at any rate.' I can't say nothing about the time, sir, it might be nigh on a year ago, or it mightn't. But I can swear to the stout gentleman, and swear to the lady's name
How was he to know that his niece was alive when he was told that she was dead? He would welcome dear Laura with pleasure, if we would only allow him time to recover. Did we think he looked as if he wanted hurrying into his grave? No. Then, why hurry him
The Narrative of the Tombstone
Allow me to present Mr. Hartright. I am as great an invalid as ever, and he is so very obliging as to speak for me. The subject is dreadfully embarrassing. Please hear him, and don't make a noise
Are you all of the same opinion
There she is, alive and hearty -- God bless her! Gi' it tongue, lads! Gi' it tongue
Laura, Lady Glyde
Anne Catherick, July 25th, 1850
Mr. Fairlie's best congratulations
we contemplated stopping in the house
After all that we three have suffered together
there can be no parting between us till the last parting of all. My heart and my happiness, Walter, are with Laura and you. Wait a little till there are children's voices at your fireside. I will teach them to speak for me in THEIR language, and the first lesson they say to their father and mother shall be -- We can't spare our aunt
I remember the name, but I don't know the man. You saw at the Opera he was so changed that I could not recognise him. I will forward the report -- I can do no more
No more need be done
Am I disturbing you
I did not know you had a friend with you till I saw him come out
No friend
I see him to-day for the first time and the last
I am afraid he has brought you bad news
Horrible news, Walter! Let us go back to London -- I don't want to stop here -- I am sorry I ever came. The misfortunes of my youth are very hard upon me
very hard upon me in my later time. I try to forget them -- and they will not forget ME
We can't return, I am afraid, before the afternoon
Would you like to come out with me in the meantime
No, my friend, I will wait here. But let us go back to-day -- pray let us go back
Ah, what a handsome man
Traditore
His life was one long assertion of the rights of the aristocracy and the sacred principles of Order, and he died a martyr to his cause
What in the name of heaven has brought you here
Does Mr. Fairlie know
My darling Walter
must we really account for our boldness in coming here? I am afraid, love, I can only explain it by breaking through our rule, and referring to the past
There is not the least necessity for doing anything of the kind
We can be just as explicit, and much more interesting, by referring to the future
Do you know who this is, Walter
Even MY bewilderment has its limits
I think I can still answer for knowing my own child
Child
Do you talk in that familiar manner of one of the landed gentry of England? Are you aware, when I present this illustrious baby to your notice, in whose presence you stand? Evidently not! Let me make two eminent personages known to one another: Mr. Walter Hartright -- THE HEIR OF LIMMERIDGE
</text>
