<text>
James Oliver, News Agent
Eh, Charlotte
what would I give to be a-top of the Wrekin, seeing the sun set this
evening! Many and many's the summer afternoon we've spent there when we
were young, and all of us alive. Dost remember how many a mile of country
we could see all round us, and how fresh the air blew across the
thousands of green fields? Why, I saw Snowdon once, more than sixty miles
off, when my eyes were young and it was a clear sunset. I always think of
the top of the Wrekin when I read of Moses going up Mount Pisgah and
seeing all the land about him, north and south, east and west. Eh, lass!
there's a change in us all now
Ah! it's like another world
All the folks I used to sew for at Aston, and Uppington, and
Overlehill, they'd mostly be gone or dead by now. It wouldn't seem like
the same place at all. And now there's none but you and me left, brother
James. Well, well! its lonesome, growing old
Yes, lonesome, yet not exactly lonesome
I'm growing dark a little, and just a trifle deaf, and I
don't feel quite myself like I used to do; but I've got something I
didn't use to have. Sometimes of an evening, before I've lit the gas,
I've a sort of a feeling as if I could almost see the Lord Jesus, and
hear him talking to me. He looks to me something like our eldest brother,
him that died when we were little. Charlotte, thee remembers him? A
white, quiet, patient face, with a smile like the sun shining behind
clouds. Well, whether it's only a dream or no I cannot tell, but there's
a face looks at me, or seems to look at me out of the dusk; and I think
to myself, maybe the Lord Jesus says, 'Old Oliver's lonesome down there
in the dark, and his eyes growing dim. I'll make myself half-plain to
him.' Then he comes and sits here with me for a little while
Oh, that's all fancy as comes with you living quite alone
Perhaps so! perhaps so
but I
should be very lonesome without that
Heard nothing of Susan, I suppose
Not a word
It's the only trouble I've
got. That were the last passion I ever went into, and I was hot and
hasty, I know
So you always used to be at times
Ah! but that passion was the worst of all
I told her if she married young Raleigh, she should never darken
my doors again -- never again. And she took me at my word though she might
have known it was nothing but father's hot temper. Darken my doors! Why,
the brightest sunshine I could have 'ud be to see her come smiling into
my shop, like she used to do at home
Well, I think Susan ought to have humbled herself
It's going on for six years now, and she's had time enough to see her
folly. Do you know where she is
I know nothing about her
Young Raleigh was wild, very wild, and that was my objection to him;
but I didn't mean Susan to take me at my word. I shouldn't speak so
hasty and hot now
And to think. I'd helped to bring her up so genteel, and with such
pretty manners
She might have done
so much better with her cleverness too. Such a milliner as she might have
turned out! Well good-bye, brother James, and don't go having any more of
those visions; they're not wholesome for you
I should be very lonesome without them
Good-bye,
Charlotte, good-bye, and God bless you. Come again as soon as you can
Please, rere's a little girl here
What little girl are you
Rey called me Dolly
Haven't you any other name
Nosing else but Poppet
rey call me Dolly sometimes, and
Poppet sometimes. Ris is my little dog, Beppo
What brings you here in my shop, my little woman
Mammy brought me
she told me run in
rere, Dolly, and stay till mammy comes back, and be a good girl always.
Am I a good girl
Yes, yes
you're a very good little girl, I'm
sure; and mother 'ill come back soon, very soon. Let us go to the door,
and look for her
She ain't nowhere in sight
nor won't be, neither, I'll bet you. You're looking out for the little
un's mother, ain't you, old master
Yes
do you know anything about her, my boy
Nothink
only she looked as if she were up to
some move, and as I'd nothink particular on hand, I just followed her.
She was somethink like my mother, as is dead, not fat or rosy, you know,
with a bit of a bruise about her eye, as if somebody had been fighting
with her. I thought there'd be a lark when she left the little 'un in
your shop, so I just stopped to see. She bolted as if the bobbies were
after her
How long ago
The clocks had just gone eight
I've been watching for
you ever since
Why! that's a full hour ago
it's time she was come back again for her little girl
I say
don't you go to give her up to the p'lice.
They'd take her to the house, and that's worse than the jail. Bless yer!
they'd never take up a little thing like that to jail for a wagrant. You
just give her to me, and I'll take care of her. It 'ud be easy enough to
find victuals for such a pretty little thing as her. You give her up to
me, I say
What's your name
and
where do you come from
From nowhere particular
and my name's Antony; Tony,
for short. I used to have another name; mother told it me afore she died,
but it's gone clean out o' my head. Tony I am, anyhow, and you can call
me by it, if you choose
How old are you, Tony
Bless yer! I don't know
I weren't much bigger nor
her when mother died, and I've found myself ever since. I never had
any father
Found yourself
Ah, it's not bad in the summer
and I could find for the little 'un easy enough. I sleep anywhere, in
Covent Garden sometimes, and the parks -- anywhere as the p'lice 'ill let
me alone. You won't go to give her up to them p'lice, will you now, and
she so pretty
I never were such a baby before
only she is such a nice
little thing, and such a tiny little 'un. You'll keep her, master, won't
you? or give her up to me
Ay, ay! I'll take care of her
till her mother comes
back for her. She'll come pretty soon, I know. But she wants her supper
now, doesn't she
Beppo wants his supper, too
And Beppo shall have some supper as well as the little woman
I'll put the shutters up now, and leave the door ajar, and the
gas lit for mother to see when she comes back; and if mother shouldn't
come back to night, the little woman will sleep in my bed, won't she
Dolly's to be a good girl till mammy comes back
Let me put the shutters up, master
I won't
charge you nothink, and I'll just look round in the morning to see how
you're getting along. She is such a very little thing
I'll have a wash in the morning afore I come
good-bye, guv'ner; goodbye, little 'un
Dolly vewy seepy
but must say her prayers always
What are your prayers, my dear
On'y God bless gan-pa, and father, and mammy, and poor Beppo, and make
me a good girl
Mr. James Oliver,
News-agent
DEAR FATHER,

"I am very very sorry I ever did anything to make you angry with me. This
is your poor Susan's little girl, as is come to be a little peacemaker
betwixt you and me. I'm certain sure you'll never turn her away from your
door. I'm going down to Portsmouth for three days, because he listed five
months ago, and his regiment's ordered out to India, and he sails on
Friday. So I thought I wouldn't take my little girl to be in the way, and
I said I'll leave her with father till I come back, and her pretty little
ways will soften him towards me, and we'll live all together in peace and
plenty till his regiment comes home again, poor fellow. For he's very
good to me when he's not in liquor, which is seldom for a man. Please do
forgive me for pity's sake, and for Christ's sake, if I'm worthy to use
his name, and do take care of my little girl till I come home to you both
on Friday, From your now dutiful daughter,

"POOR SUSAN
Bless her! bless
her
Dear Lord
dear
Lord! how very good thou art to me! Didst thee not say, 'I'll not leave
thee comfortless, I'll come to thee?' I know what that means, bless thy
name; and the good Spirit has many a time brought me comfort, and cheered
my heart. I know thou didst not leave me alone before. No, no! that was
far from thee, Lord. Alone!-- why, thou'rt always here; and now there's
the little lass as well. Lonesome!-- they don't know thee, Lord, and they
don't know me. Thou'rt here, with the little lass and me. Yes,
yes,-- yes
What am I to call ris funny old man, Beppo
I am your grandpa, my darling
Are you God-bless-gan-pa
Yes, I am
Dolly knows
rere's
father, and mammy, and Beppo; and now rere's gan-pa. Dolly'll get up
now
Come
this'll never do, you know.
Business is business, and must be minded. You pretty nearly frightened
me into fits; anybody could have knocked me down with a straw when I see
the shutters up. How is she
She's very well, thank you, my boy
Mother not turned up, I guess
No; she comes on Friday
Washed myself early in the morning, afore the bobbies were much about
in the fountains at Charing Cross; but I hadn't time to
get my rags done, so I did 'em down under the bridge, when the tide were
going down; but I could only give 'em a bit of a swill and a ring out.
Anyhow, I'm a bit cleaner this morning than last night, master
To be sure, to be sure
Come in, my boy, and I'll
give you a bit of breakfast with her and me
You haven't got sich a thing as a daily paper, have you
Not to-day's paper, I'm afraid
I'm afraid not
overslept yourself, eh? Not as I can
read myself; but there are folks going by as can, and might p'raps buy
one here as well as anywhere else. Shall I run and get 'em for you, now
I'm on my legs
Honour bright
Then she's your own little 'un
You'll never give her up to me, if you get tired of her,-- nor to the
p'lice neither
No, no, no
Besides, her mother's
coming on Friday. I wouldn't give her up for all the world, bless her
And he's 'listed
They wouldn't take me
yet a while, if I offered to go. But who's that she speaks of?--'for
Christ's sake, if I am worthy to use his name.' Who is he
Don't you know
No, never heard tell of him before
Is he any friend o'
yours
Ay
he's my only friend, my best friend. And he's my
master, besides
And she thinks he'd be angry if you turned the little girl away
Yes, yes; he'd be very angry
it 'ud
grieve him to his heart. Why, he's always loved little children, and
never had them turned away from himself, whatever he was doing. If she
hadn't been my own little girl, I daren't have turned her out of my
doors. No, no, dear Lord, thee knows as I'd have taken care of her, for
thy sake
How long have you worked for that master o' yours
Not very long
I used to fancy I was
working for him years and years ago; but, dear me! it was poor sort
o'work; and now I can't do very much. Only he knows how old I am, and he
doesn't care so that I love him, which I do, Tony
I should think so
He takes to children and little 'uns
Ay, dearly
I reckon he'd scarcely take me for a man yet
though I don't know as I
should care to work for him. I'd rather have a crossing, and be my own
master. But if I get hard up, do you think he'd take to me, if you spoke
a word for me
Are you sure you don't know anything about him
Not I; how should I
Why, you don't s'pose as I know
all the great folks in London, though I've seen sights and sights of 'em
riding about in their carriages. I told you I weren't much bigger nor her
there when mother died, and I've picked up my living up and down the
streets anyhow, and other lads have helped me on, till I can help 'em on
now. It don't cost much to keep a boy on the streets. There's nothink to
pay for coals, or rent, or beds, or furniture, or anythink; only your
victuals, and a rag now and then. All I want's a broom and a crossing,
and then shouldn't I get along just? But I don't know how to get 'em
Perhaps the Lord Jesus would give them to you, if you'd ask him
Who's he
Him -- Christ. It's his other name
Ah! I see
Well, if I can't get 'em myself,
I'll think about it. He'll want me to work for him, you know. Where
does he live
I'll tell you all about him, if you'll come to see me
Well
I'll just look in after Friday, and see if the
little 'un's mother's come back. Goodbye,-- good-bye, little miss
Thank you for my breakfast
only if
I do come to see you, it'll be to see her again -- not for anythink as
I can get
MY DEAR AND DEAREST FATHER,

"My heart is almost broke, betwixt one thing and another. His regiment
is to set sail immediate, and the colonel's lady has offered me very
handsome wages to go out with her as lady's maid, her own having
disappointed her at the last moment; which I could do very well, knowing
the dressmaking. He said, 'Do come, Susan, and I'll never get drunk
again, so help me God; and if you don't, I shall go to the bad
altogether; for I do love you, Susan.' I said, 'Oh my child!' And the
colonel's lady said, 'She's safe with her grandfather; and if he's a
good man, as you say he is, he'll take the best of care of her. I'll
give you three pounds to send him from here, and we'll send more from
Calcutta.' So they overpersuaded me, and there isn't even time to come
back to London, for we are going in a few hours. You'll take care of my
little dear, I know, you and aunt Charlotte. I've sent a little box of
clothes for her by the railway, and what more she wants aunt Charlotte
will see to, I'm sure, and do her mending, and see to her manners till I
come home. Oh! if I could only hear you say 'Susan, my dear, I forgive
you, and love you almost as much as ever,' I'd go with a lighter heart,
and be almost glad to leave Dolly to be a comfort to you. She will be a
comfort to you, though she is so little, I'm sure. Tell her mammy says
she must be a good girl always till mammy comes back. A hundred thousand
kisses for my dear father and my little girl. We shall come home as soon
as ever we can; but I don't rightly know where India is. I think it's my
bounden duty to go with him, as things have turned out. Pray God take
care of us all.

"Your loving, sorrowful daughter,

"SUSAN RALEIGH
S'pose the mother turned up all right
No
I've had another letter from her, and she's
gone out to India with her husband, and left the little love to live
alone with me
But whatever'll the Master say to that
What master
Him -- Lord Jesus Christ. What'll he say to her leaving you and the
little 'un again
Oh! he says a woman ought to leave her father, and keep to her husband
It's all right, that is
I s'pose he'll help you to take care of the little girl
Ay will he; him and me
there's no fear of that.
You never read the Testament, of course, my boy
Can't read, I told you
But what's that
A book all about him, the Lord Jesus
what he's done, and
what he's willing to do for people. If you'll come of an evening, I'll
read it aloud to you and my little love. She'll listen as quiet and good
as any angel
I'll come to-morrow
Even to your old age I am he,
and even to hoar hairs I will carry you: I have made, and I will bear;
even I will carry, and will deliver you
Yes, Lord, yes
I s'pose he takes a bit o' notice o' the little un
when he
comes in now and then of an evening
Ay, does he
My boy, he loves every child
as if it was his very own, and it is his own in one sense. Didn't I read
you last night how he said, 'Suffer the little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not.' Why, he'd love all the young children in the world,
if they weren't hindered from coming to him
I should very much like to see him some day
and the rest of them,-- Peter, and John, and them. I s'pose
they are getting pretty old by now, aren't they
They are dead
All of 'em
All of them
Dear, dear
Whatever did the Master
do when they all died? I'm very sorry for him now. He's had a many
troubles, hasn't he
Yes, yes
He was called a
man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief. Nobody ever bore so many
troubles as him
How long is it ago since they all died
I can't rightly say
I heard once, but it is gone out of
my head. I only know it was the same when I was a boy. It must have been
a long, long time ago
The same when you was a boy
It must ha' been a long while ago. I thought all along
as the Master was alive now
So he is, so he is
I'll read to you
all about it. They put him to death on the cross, and buried him in a
rocky grave; but he is the Prince of Life, and he came to life again
three days after, and now he can die no more. His own words to John
were, 'I am he that liveth, and was dead; and behold, I am alive
forevermore.' What else can it mean but that he is living now, and will
never die again
I s'pose I can't see him, then
Not exactly like other folks
I think sometimes that
perhaps there's a little darkness of the grave where he was buried about
him still. But he sees us, and hears us. He himself says, 'Behold, I am
with you always.' I don't know whatever I should do, even with my little
love here, if I wasn't sure Jesus was with me as well
I'll tell you what I'll do
I'm going
to ask him to give me somethink, and then if he does, I shall know he
hears me -- I should very much like to have a broom and a crossing, and get
my living a bit more easy, if you please
My boy
where are you
sleeping now
Anywhere as I can get out o' the wind
It's cold now,
nights -- wery cold, master. But I must get along a bit farder on. Lodgings
is wery dear
I've been thinking
that you'd find it better to have
some sort of a shake-down under my counter. I've heard say that
newspapers stitched together make a coverlid pretty near as warm as a
blanket; and we could do no harm by trying them, Tony. Look here, and see
how you'd like it
No, no, Tony
you're very useful, fetching my papers, and
taking my little love out a-walking when the weather's fine. I ought to
pay you something, instead of taking it of you
Keep it for Dolly
Sank 'oo
me'll give 'oo twenty
kisses for it
It 'ud buy you a broom, Tony
Oh, I've give up asking for a crossing
for
he never heard, or if he heard, he never cared; so it were no use going
on teazing either him or me
But this money 'ud buy the broom
and if you looked
about you, you'd find the crossing. You never got such a bit of money
before, did you
No, never
A tall, thin gentleman, with a dark face and
very sharp eyes, gave it me for holding his horse, near Temple Bar. He
says, 'Mind you spend that well, my lad.' I'd know him again anywhere
You ought to have bought a broom
Don't you go to take it of her
Bless you! I'll get
another some way. I never thought that were the way he'd give me a broom
and a crossing. I thought it 'ud be sure to come direct
Well
I'll save the fourpence for
you. It'll only be going without my pipe for a few nights, that's all.
That's nothing, Tony
Dear Lord
I'd do ten times more than this for thee. Thou
hast said, 'Inasmuch as ye did it to one of the least of these, ye did it
unto me.' Tony's one of thy little ones. Dear Lord, do thee give him a
crossing, if it be thy blessed will. Do thee now, Lord
Dolly 'ud like to buy a boom
a great, big boom;
and gan-pa 'ill smoke his pipe again to-night. Dolly's growing a big
girl; and me must be a good girl till mammy comes back. Let us go and buy
a big boom, Tony
If you'll take care of my little girl
I'll carry your
little girl across the road. I'm wery clean for a street-boy, all but my
feet, 'cos I've got this little girl to take care of; and I'll do it
wery gentle
Thank ye, my lady
but I didn't do it for that. I'm only
looking out for a crossing. Me and Dolly have bought this broom, and I'm
looking out for a place to make a good crossing in
Why not make one here
Brother James
It's my little Dolly's
poor Susan's little
girl, who's gone out with her husband, young Raleigh, to India, because
he's 'listed, and left her little girl with me, her grandfather. She came
on the very last day you were here
Well, to be sure
I've had two letters from poor Susan
and I'll read them to you. The child's such a precious treasure
to me, Charlotte -- such a little love, a hundred times better than any
gold; and now you're come to mend up her clothes a bit, and see what she
wants for me, there's nothing else that I desire. I was writing about her
to you when you came in
I thought you'd gone and picked up a lost child out of the streets
No, no; she's my own
You hearken while I read poor
Susan's letters, and then you'll understand all about it. I couldn't give
her up for a hundred gold guineas -- not for a deal more than that
That's very pretty of Susan
saying as Aunt Charlotte'll
do her sewing, and see to her manners. Ay, that I will! for who should
know manners better than me, who used to work for the Staniers, and dine
at the housekeeper's table, with the butler and all the head servants? to
be sure I'll take care that she does not grow up ungenteel. Where is the
dear child, brother James
She's gone out for a walk this fine morning
Not alone
Who's gone out with her? A child under
five years old could never go out all alone in London: at least I should
think not. She might get run over and killed a score of times
Oh! there's a person with her I've every confidence in
What sort of person; man or woman; male or female
A boy
A boy
What boy
His name's Tony
But where does he come from? Is he respectable
I don't know, sister
Don't know, brother James
Don't you know where
he lives
He lives here
at least he sleeps here under the
counter; but he finds his own food about the streets
We've bought a geat big boom, gan-pa
and Tony and Dolly made a great big crossing, and dot ever so much
money
Charlotte
the boy's a good boy, and he's a help to me. I
couldn't send him away. He's one of the Lord's poor little ones as are
scattered up and down in this great city, without father or mother, and I
must do all I can for him. It isn't much; it's only a bed under the
counter, and a crust now and then, and he more than pays for it. You
musn't come betwixt me and Tony
You can't read or write
No
And you've not got any manners, or boots, or a cap on your head. You are
ragged and ignorant, and not fit to live with this little girl
If this little girl's mother saw her going about
with a boy in bare feet and a bare head, it 'ud break her heart I know.
So if you wish to stay here with my brother, Mr. Oliver, and this little
girl, Miss Dorothy Raleigh, as I suppose her name is, you must get all
these things. You must begin to learn to read and write, and talk
properly. I shall come here again in a month's time -- I shall come every
month now -- and if you haven't got some shoes for your feet, and a cap for
your head, before I see you again, I shall just take the little girl away
down into the country, where I live, and you'll never see her again. Do
you understand
Yes
Then you may take yourself away now
I don't
want to be too hard upon you; but I've got this little girl to look after
for her mother, and you must do as I say, or I shall carry her right off
to be out of your way. Take your broom and go; and never you think of
such a thing as taking this little girl to sweep a crossing again. I
never heard of such a thing. There, go
Clever Dog Tom
Hollo, my lad
you're the boy I gave fourpence to a week
ago for holding my horse. I told you to lay it out well. What did you
do with it
Me and Dolly bought this broom
and I've kept this
crossing ever since
Well done
And who is Dolly
It's a little girl as I was very fond of
Well, here's another fourpenny-bit for you
quite a
new one. See how bright it is; no one has ever bought anything with it
yet. Dolly will like to see it
Tony's come home, Tony's come home, gan-pa
Dolly's found Tony at last
Why have you kept away from us so long, Tony
Oh, master
I've been a wicked boy, and a miserable boy. Do
forgive me, and I'll never do so no more. I s'pose you'll never let me
sleep under the counter again
Come in, come in
We've been waiting and watching for you every night, me and
my little love. You ought not to have served us so, my lad; but we're too
glad to be angry with you. Charlotte's sharp, and she's very much afraid
of low ways and manners; but she isn't a hard woman, and she didn't know
anything about you. When I told her as you'd been left no bigger than my
little love here to take care of yourself, alone, in London,-- mother
dead, and no father,-- she shed tears about you, she did. And she left you
the biggest of her eggs to be kept for your supper, with her kind love;
and we've put it by for you. You shall have it this very night. Dolly, my
love, bring me the little saucepan
I'm not so clean as I could wish
Take a bowl full of water into the shop, then
and
wash yourself, while I boil the egg. Dolly'll find you a bit of soap and
a towel; she's learning to be grand-pa's little housekeeper, she is
Oh! Lord Jesus Christ!
Lord Jesus Christ
Why
you're my young friend of the
crossing,-- my little fourpenny-bit, I call you. What brings you sitting
here this cold night
I've fell down and hurt myself
Where
My leg
Broken
My boy, where's your home
I haven't got any right home
I know you do not take in accidents
but what could I do
with the little fellow? He told me he had no home, and that was all he
could say. You have two or three cots empty; and I'll double my
subscription if it's necessary, rather than take him away. Come, doctor,
you'll admit my patient
I don't think I could send him away, Mr. Ross
We must get him into bed as soon as possible
My boy
you have broken your leg in your fall; but the doctor
here, who is a great friend of mine, is going to mend it for you. It will
give you a good deal of pain for a few minutes; but you'll bear it like a
man, I know
Yes
but will you let me go as soon as it's done
You could not do that
It will be some
weeks before you will be well enough to go; but you will be very happy
here, I promise you
Oh! but I must go
There's Dolly and Mr. Oliver,-- they'll think I've run away
again, and I were trying all I could to get back to 'em. She'll be
watching for me, and she'll fret ever so. Oh! Dolly, Dolly
If you will tell me where they live
I will go at once and
let them know all about your accident; and they shall come to see you
to-morrow if you are well enough to see them
Dolly hasn't had to fret for Tony this time
But Dolly will fret till Tony gets well again
No, no
Dolly's going to be a very good girl, and
help grand-pa to mind shop till Tony comes home again
Arise
I wonder whatever the Lord 'ud have said
if there'd
been such a place as this in his days! He'd have come here very often. He
does come, I know, and walks to and fro here of nights when the little
ones are asleep, or may be awake through pain, and he blesses every one
of them. Ah, bless them! Bless the little children, and the good folks
who keep a place like this. Bless them everyone
Antony
what are you
thinking to do when you leave here to-morrow
I s'pose I must go back to my crossing
No, I think I can do better for you than that
I
have a sister living out in the country, about fifty miles from London;
and she wants a boy to help the gardener, and run on errands for the
house. She has promised to provide you with a home, and clothing, and to
send you to school for two years, till you are about twelve, for we
think you must be about ten years old now; and after that you shall have
settled wages
It 'ud do first-rate for me
and I'd try my best to
help in the garden; but I couldn't never leave Mr. Oliver and the little
girl. She'd fret ever so; and he's gone so forgetful he'd lose his own
head, if he could anyhow. Why! of a morning they sell him any papers as
they've too many of. Sometimes it's all the 'Star,' and sometimes it's
all the 'Standard;' and them as buys one won't have the other. I don't
know why, I'm sure. But you see when I go for 'em I say twenty-five this,
and thirteen that, and I count 'em over pretty sharp, I can tell you;
though I couldn't read at all afore I came here, but I could tell which
was which easy enough. Then he'd never think to open his shop some
mornings; and other mornings he'd open at four or five o'clock, just when
he woke of hisself. No. I must stay and take care of 'em a bit; but thank
you, sir, all the same
What has he done for you, Antony? Is he any relation of yours
No, no
I haven't got any
relation in all the world; but he took me in out of love, and let me
sleep comfortable under the counter, instead of in the streets. I love
him, and Dolly, I do. I'll stay by 'em as long as ever I live, if I have
to sweep a crossing till I'm an old man like him. Besides, I hear him
speak a good word for me often and often to his Master; and I s'pose
nobody else 'ud do that
What master
Him
he's always talking to him as if he could see him, and he
tells him everythink. No, it 'ud be better for me to stay with him and
Dolly, and keep hard by my crossing, than go away from 'em, and have
clothes, and lodging, and schooling for nothink
I think it would
so you must go on as you are, Antony,
till I can find you something better than a crossing. You are looking
very well, my boy; that's a nice, warm suit of clothes you have on,
better than the rags you came in by a long way
They've lent it me till I go out
I only wish Dolly could have seen me in it, and
her aunt Charlotte. My own things were too ragged for me to wear 'em in a
place like this
They've given it to you, Antony
those are the
clothes you will go home in to-morrow
Dolly's so very ill, Tony
poor Dolly's very ill indeed
I don't know whatever is the matter with my little love
she fell down all of a sudden, and I
thought she was dead, Tony; but she's coming round again now. Isn't my
little love better now
Yes, gan-pa, yes; Dolly's better
Let me hold her, master
I can
hold her stronger and more comfortable, maybe, than you. You're tired
ever so, and you'd better get yourself a bit of dinner. Shall Tony nurse
you now, Dolly
Lord! dear Lord
She's very thin, Tony; look at this little arm
wasting away!
wasting away! I've watched all my little ones waste away except my poor
Susan. Couldn't there anything be done to save her
Ay
ay! they could cure her easily at the
hospital. Bless yer! there were little 'uns ten times worse than her as
they sent home cured. Let us take her there as soon as ever she wakes
up, and she'll be quite well directly, I promise you. The doctor knows
me, and I'll speak to Mr. Ross for her. Do you get a bit of dinner, and
hearten yourself up for it; and we'll set off as soon as she's awake
Would Dolly like to go to that nice place, where the little girls had
the dolls and the music
the good place where Tony got well again, and
they gave him his new clothes? Everybody 'ud be so wery kind to poor
little Dolly, and she'd come home again, quite cured and strong, like
Tony was
Yes, yes
it's a
nice place, and the sun shines, and Dolly 'ud like to go. Only she'll be
sure to come back to gan-pa
We've brought you our little girl, who is very ill
but
she'll soon get well in here, I know. I'd like to see the doctor, and
tell him all about her
We're quite full
Full
Ay! all our cots are full
chockfull. There ain't no more
room. We've turned two or three away this morning, when they came at the
right time. This isn't the right time to bring any child here
But my little love is very ill
this is the
right place, isn't it? The place where they nurse little children
who are ill
It's all right
it's the right place enough, only
it's brimful, and running over, as you may say. We couldn't take in one
more, if it was ever so. But you may come in and sit down in the hall for
a minute or two, while I fetch one of the ladies
I think there's some mistake here, ma'am
this is the Hospital
for Sick Children, I think, and I've brought my little grandchild here,
who is very ill indeed, yet the man at the door says there's no room for
her. I think it must be a mistake
No
I am sorry to say it is no mistake. We are quite
full; there is not room for even one more. Indeed, we have been obliged
to send cases away before to-day. Who is your recommendation from
I didn't know you'd want any recommendation
she's very ill, and you could cure her here, and take
better care of her than Tony and me, and I thought that was enough. I
never thought of getting any recommendation, and I don't know where I
could get one
Mr. Ross 'ud give us one
Yet even then
we could not take her in until some
of the cots are empty
You don't know me
but Mr. Ross brought
me here, a year ago now, and they cured me, and set me up stronger
than ever. They was so wery kind to me, that I couldn't think of
anythink else save bringing our little girl to 'em. I'm sure they'd
take her in, if they only knew it was her. You jest say as it's Tony
and Dolly, as everybody took such notice of, and they'll never turn her
away, I'm sure
I wish we could take her
but
it is impossible. We should be obliged to turn some other child out, and
that could not be done to-night. You had better bring her again in the
morning, and we'll see if there is any one well enough to make room for
her. Let me look at the poor child for a minute
Put Dolly into a pretty bed
where the sun shines, and
she'll soon get well and go home again to gan-pa
What can I do
The place is quite full; we cannot take in one more, not one. Bring her
here again in the morning, and we will see what can be done
How many children have you got here
We have only seventy-five cots
and in a winter
like this they're always full
Only seventy-five
Only
seventy-five, and there are hundreds and hundreds of little children ill
in London! They are ill in houses like mine, where the sun never shines.
Is there no other place like this we could take our little love to
There are two or three other Hospitals
but they are a
long way off, and none of them as large as ours. They are sure to be full
just now. I think there are not more than a hundred and fifty cots in all
London for sick children
Then there's no room for my Dolly
Eh
I don't know whatever the
dear Lord 'ill say to that
Let me carry her a little way, Tony
She's as light as a
feather, even to poor old grandpa. I'd like to carry my little love a bit
of the way home
I'll tell you what I can do
if you will tell me where
you live I will speak to the doctor as soon as he comes in -- for he is out
just now -- and perhaps he will come to see her. He knows a great deal
about children, and is fond of them
Thank you, thank you kindly, ma'am
Dear Lord
there's only room for seventy-five of thy little
lambs that are pining and wasting away in every dark street and alley
like mine. Whatever can thy people be thinking about? They've got their
own dear little children, who are ill sometimes, spite of all their
care; and they can send for the doctor, and do all that's possible,
never looking at the money it costs; but when they are well again they
never think of the poor little ones who are sick and dying, with nobody
to help them or care for them as I care for this little one. Oh, Lord,
Lord! let my little love live! Yet thou knows what is best, and thou'lt
do what is best. Thou loves her more than I do; and see, Lord, she is
very ill indeed
Don't ky, gan-pa
don't ky more than a minute. Nor
Tony. Are I going to die, gan-pa
Yes, my little love
Where are I going to
You're going to see my Lord and Master
him as loves little
children so, and carries them in his arms, and never lets them be
sorrowful or ill or die again
Does he live in a bootiful place
It's a more beautiful place than I can tell
The
Lord Jesus gives them light brighter than the sun; and the streets are
all of gold, and there are many little children there, who always see the
face of their Father
Dolly's going rere
Master, master
If the Lord Jesus is here he can save her.
Ask him, master
Will gan-pa come rere
Very soon
Very, very soon, my little
love. You'll be there to meet me when I come
Dolly'll watch for gan-pa
and Dolly'll
watch at the door for Tony to come home; and she'll fret ever so if he
never comes
Dear Lord
take my little love to thyself. I give her
up to thee
Master
master, is she gone
Come to your own chair, master
Lord
if you really love the old master, do something for
him; for I don't know whatever to do, now little Dolly's gone
Antony
I have come with the doctor,
to see what we can do for your little girl
Oh! you've come too late
you've come too late! Dolly's
dead, and I'm afraid the master's going away from me as well. They
couldn't take her in, and she died after we had brought her home
I don't murmur
My dear Lord can't do anything unkind. He'll
come and speak to me presently, and comfort me; but just now I'm deaf and
blind, even to him. I've not forgot him, and he hasn't forgot me; but
there's a many things ought to be done, and I cannot think what
Leave it all to us
But
have you no neighbour you can go and stay with for to-night? You are an
old man, and you must not lose your night's sleep
No
I'd rather stay here in my own
place, if I'd a hundred other places to go to. I'm not afraid of my
little love,-- no, no! When everything is done as ought to be done,
I'll lie in my own bed and watch her. It won't be lonesome, as long as
she's here
Gentle Jesus, meek and mild
I've give up my place as errand-boy
cause the
old master grows worse and worse for forgetting, and I must mind shop for
him now as well as I can. He's not off his head, as you may say; he's
sharp enough sometimes; but there's no trusting to him being sharp
always. He talks to Dolly as if she was here, and could hear him, till I
can't hardly bear it. But I'm very fond of him,-- fonder of him than
anythink else, 'cept my little Dolly; and I've made up my mind as his
Master shall be my master, and he's always ready to tell me all he knows
about him. I'm no ways afeared of not getting along
Dear Lord! there was no room for my little
love, but thou hast found room for her
Hallo! my lad, who are you
I'm Antony Oliver
Antony Oliver
I never heard of you before
Well, I'm only Tony
but I live with old Mr. Oliver now,
and call him grandfather. He likes it, and it does me good. It's like
somebody belonging to me
Why! how long have you called him grandfather
Ever since our little Dolly died
Dolly dead
Oh! my poor Susan!-- my poor, dear girl!-- however can I tell her this
bad news
Who are you
Are you Dolly's father? Oh, she's dead!
She died last January, and we are more lonesome without her than you
can think
Let me see poor Susan's father
Ay, come in
He's more hisself again; but
his memory's bad yet. I know everythink about her, though; because she
was so fond of me, and me of her. Come in
Don't you know me, father
It's your poor Susan's husband, and Dolly's father
Dolly's father
Do you know that the dear Lord
has taken her to be where he is in glory
Yes, I know it
You've lost your arm
Ay
our colonel was set upon by a tiger in the
jungle, and I saved him; but the brute tore my arm, and craunched
the bone between his teeth till it had to come off. It's spoiled me
for a soldier
Yes, yes, poor fellow
but the Lord knew all
about it
That he did
and he's taught me a bit more about
himself than I used to know. I'm not spoiled to be His soldier. But I
don't know much about the service yet, and I shall want you to teach me,
father. You'll let me call you father, for poor Susan's sake, won't you
To be sure -- to be sure
Well, father
as I am not fit for a soldier, and as the
colonel was hurt too, we're all come home together. Only Susan's gone
straight on with her lady and our little girl, and sent me through London
to see after you and Dolly
Your little girl
Yes, the one born in India. Her name's Mary, but we call her Polly.
Susan said it made her think of our little Dolly at home. Dear! dear! I
don't know however I shall let her know
So Susan and me are to have one of the lodges of the colonel's park
and I'm to be a sort of bailiff to look after the other outdoor
servants about the garden and premises. It's a house with three bedrooms,
and a very pleasant sort of little parlour, as well as a kitchen and
scullery place downstairs. You can see the Wrekin from the parlour
window, and the moon over it; and it's not so far away but what we could
get a spring-cart sometimes, and drive over to your old home under the
Wrekin. As soon as ever the colonel's lady told Susan where it was, she
cried out, 'That's the very place for father!' You'd like to come and
live with your own Susan again, in your own country; wouldn't you now
Yes, yes; for a little while
But I couldn't leave Tony
Come here, Tony. He's like my own son to me, bless him! He calls me
grandfather, and kept my heart up when I should have sunk very low
without him. My Master gave him to me the very same night he gave me my
little love. No, no; Dolly loved Tony, and Susan must come here to see
me, but I could never leave my boy
The colonel and his lady must be told about this
If only my little love had had a bit of sunshine
Say grand-pa, and kiss him, Polly
Gan-pa
Yet a little, and I will come again, and receive you unto myself, that
where I am ye may be also. Even so, come, Lord Jesus
</text>
