<text>
a very
tight place indeed
I wish we were going to see you again some day
The children DID see the Psammead again, but it was not in the sandpit;
it was -- but I must say no more
Look here
Let's have a palaver
five acres of thistles haunted by the ghosts of baby
cherry-trees'. They thought of the view across the valley, where the
lime-kilns looked like Aladdin's palaces in the sunshine, and they
thought of their own sandpit, with its fringe of yellowy grasses and
pale-stringy-stalked wild flowers, and the little holes in the cliff
that were the little sand-martins' little front doors. And they thought
of the free fresh air smelling of thyme and sweetbriar, and the scent of
the wood-smoke from the cottages in the lane -- and they looked round old
Nurse's stuffy parlour, and Jane said --

'Oh, how different it all is
And maple-framed engravings of the Queen, the Houses of
  Parliament, the Plains of Heaven, and of a blunt-nosed
  woodman's flat return
Let's have a palaver
What about
There's nothing to have ANYTHING about
I don't want to play
Look here
don't think I want to be preachy or a beast in
any way, but I want to what Father calls define the situation. Do you
agree
Fire ahead
Well then. We all know the reason we're staying here is because Nurse
couldn't leave her house on account of the poor learned gentleman on the
top-floor. And there was no one else Father could entrust to take care
of us -- and you know it's taken a lot of money, Mother's going to Madeira
to be made well
Yes, I know
but don't let's think about how
horrid it all is. I mean we can't go to things that cost a lot, but we
must do SOMETHING. And I know there are heaps of things you can see in
London without paying for them, and I thought we'd go and see them. We
are all quite old now, and we haven't got The Lamb
I mean no one can say "No" because of him, dear pet. And I thought
we MUST get Nurse to see how quite old we are, and let us go out by
ourselves, or else we shall never have any sort of a time at all. And I
vote we see everything there is, and let's begin by asking Nurse to give
us some bits of bread and we'll go to St James's Park. There are ducks
there, I know, we can feed them. Only we must make Nurse let us go by
ourselves
Hurrah for liberty
but she won't
Yes she will
_I_ thought about that this
morning, and I asked Father, and he said yes; and what's more he told
old Nurse we might, only he said we must always say where we wanted to
go, and if it was right she would let us
Three cheers for thoughtful Jane
I say, let's go now
It must be fairly beastly to be a bird in a cage
Come
on
Buy me! buy me! buy me! and let me go for a walk with you; oh,
do buy me, and buy my poor brothers too! Do! do! do
Do! do! do
Grrrrr
YOU won't buy me. Nobody will -- ever -- I shall die chained
up -- and I don't know that I care how soon it is, either
I don't suppose old Nurse would mind VERY much
Rabbits
are most awfully tame sometimes. I expect it would know her voice and
follow her all about
She'd tumble over it twenty times a day
now a snake
and besides, I never
could cotton to snakes somehow -- I wonder why
Worms are as bad
and eels and slugs -- I think it's
because we don't like things that haven't got legs
Father says snakes have got legs hidden away inside of them
Yes -- and he says WE'VE got tails hidden away inside us -- but it doesn't
either of it come to anything REALLY
I hate things that
haven't any legs
It's worse when they have too many
think
of centipedes
Buy me -- do -- please buy me
Come back -- oh, come back
stoop down and pretend to be tying up your bootlace -- I see it's
undone, as usual
Listen
I don't think the creature who keeps this
shop will ask a very high price for me. I've bitten him more than once,
and I've made myself look as common as I can. He's never had a glance
from my beautiful, beautiful eyes. Tell the others I'm here -- but tell
them to look at some of those low, common beasts while I'm talking to
you. The creature inside mustn't think you care much about me, or he'll
put a price upon me far, far beyond your means. I remember in the dear
old days last summer you never had much money. Oh -- I never thought I
should be so glad to see you -- I never did
Tell
the others I'm here, and then I'll tell you exactly what to do about
buying me
Look here
I'm not kidding -- and I appeal to your honour
Don't look at that
hutch -- look at the white rat. Now you are not to look at that hutch
whatever I say
Now get yourselves ready for a great surprise. In that hutch there's
an old friend of ours -- DON'T look!-- Yes; it's the Psammead, the good old
Psammead! it wants us to buy it. It says you're not to look at it. Look
at the white rat and count your money! On your honour don't look
Go in
and ask the price of lots of other things.
Then say, "What do you want for that monkey that's lost its tail -- the
mangy old thing in the third hutch from the end." Oh -- don't mind MY
feelings -- call me a mangy monkey -- I've tried hard enough to look like
one! I don't think he'll put a high price on me -- I've bitten him eleven
times since I came here the day before yesterday. If he names a bigger
price than you can afford, say you wish you had the money
But you can't give us wishes. I've promised never to have another wish
from you
Don't be a silly little idiot
but find out how much money you've got between you,
and do exactly what I tell you
How much do you want for that white rat
Eightpence
And the guinea-pigs
Eighteenpence to five bob, according to the breed
And the lizards
Ninepence each
And toads
Fourpence. Now look here
Lookee here.
I ain't agoin
Oh! wait a minute
Just
tell me one thing. What do you want for the mangy old monkey in the
third hutch from the end
Mangy young monkey yourself
get along with your blooming
cheek. Hout you goes
Oh! don't be so cross
don't
you see he really DOES want to know THAT
e indeed
e
then two pun ten's my
price. He's not got his fellow that monkey ain't, nor yet his match,
not this side of the equator, which he comes from. And the only one ever
seen in London. Ought to be in the Zoo. Two pun ten, down on the nail,
or hout you goes
We've only twenty-three shillings and fivepence
Twenty-three farthings and somebody's own cheek
Oh! I WISH I had two pounds ten
So do I, Miss, I'm sure
ad, I'm sure
Why, I HAVE got it after all
here's the money, now let's
have the Sammy,... the monkey I mean
I only hope you come by it honest
Well
I suppose I must let you have it, but it's worth
thribble the money, so it is
Here, take the brute
It's bit me to the marrow, it have
Don't blame me if it tears your face off its bones
But you can't take it home like that
we shall have a
crowd after us
I can't give you nothink only a paper-bag, like what we put the
tortoises in
Well
if that there don't beat cockfighting! But
p'raps you've met the brute afore
Yes
he's an old friend of ours
If I'd a known that
Owever
I
ain't done so bad, seeing as I only give five bob for the beast. But
then there's the bites to take into account
Get me sand; silver sand from the oil and colour shop. And get me
plenty
You have saved my life
I know that man would have thrown
cold water on me sooner or later, and then I should have died. I saw him
wash out a guinea-pig's hutch yesterday morning. I'm still frightfully
sleepy, I think I'll go back to sand for another nap. Wake the boys and
this dormouse of a Jane, and when you've had your breakfasts we'll have
a talk
Don't YOU want any breakfast
I daresay I shall pick a bit presently
but sand is all I
care about -- it's meat and drink to me, and coals and fire and wife and
children
Well
anyhow our holidays won't be dull NOW. We've found
the Psammead again
No
We shan't be
dull -- but it'll be only like having a pet dog now it can't give us
wishes
Oh, don't be so discontented
If it can't do anything
else it can tell us about Megatheriums and things
You must have bolted your breakfast most unwholesomely
you
can't have been five minutes over it
We've been nearly an hour
Come -- you know you promised
Now look here
we'd better begin as we mean to
go on. It won't do to have any misunderstanding, so I tell you plainly
that
Oh, PLEASE
do wait till we get to the others.
They'll think it most awfully sneakish of me to talk to you without
them; do come down, there's a dear
Now then
What place is this
It's a sitting-room, of course
Then I don't like it
Never mind
we'll take you anywhere you like if
you want us to. What was it you were going to say upstairs when I said
the others wouldn't like it if I stayed talking to you without them
Don't be silly
Of course, it's quite natural that
you should like your brothers and sisters to know exactly how good and
unselfish you were
I wish you wouldn't
Anthea was quite right. What was it
you were going to say when she stopped you
I'll tell you
since you're so anxious to know. I
was going to say this. You've saved my life -- and I'm not ungrateful -- but
it doesn't change your nature or mine. You're still very ignorant, and
rather silly, and I am worth a thousand of you any day of the week
Of course you are
It's very rude to interrupt
what I mean is that I'm not
going to stand any nonsense, and if you think what you've done is to
give you the right to pet me or make me demean myself by playing with
you, you'll find out that what you think doesn't matter a single penny.
See? It's what _I_ think that matters
I know
it always was, if you remember
Well
then that's settled. We're to be treated as
we deserve. I with respect, and all of you with -- but I don't wish to be
offensive. Do you want me to tell you how I got into that horrible den
you bought me out of? Oh, I'm not ungrateful! I haven't forgotten it and
I shan't forget it
Do tell us
I know you're awfully clever, but even with
all your cleverness, I don't believe you can possibly know how -- how
respectfully we do respect you. Don't we
I do wish you'd go on
When you'd gone away
I went to sand for a bit, and slept. I
was tired out with all your silly wishes, and I felt as though I hadn't
really been to sand for a year
To sand
Where I sleep. You go to bed. I go to sand
All right
I'm sure _I_ don't
want to tell you a long tale. A man caught me, and I bit him. And he put
me in a bag with a dead hare and a dead rabbit. And he took me to his
house and put me out of the bag into a basket with holes that I could
see through. And I bit him again. And then he brought me to this city,
which I am told is called the Modern Babylon -- though it's not a bit like
the old Babylon -- and he sold me to the man you bought me from, and then
I bit them both. Now, what's your news
There's not quite so much biting in our story
in fact, there isn't any. Father's gone to Manchuria, and Mother and
The Lamb have gone to Madeira because Mother was ill, and don't I just
wish that they were both safe home again
I forgot
I can't give you any more wishes
No -- but look here
couldn't we call in old Nurse and get
her to say SHE wishes they were safe home. I'm sure she does
No go
It's just the same as your wishing yourself
if you get some one else to wish for you. It won't act
But it did yesterday -- with the man in the shop
Ah yes
but you didn't ASK him to wish, and you
didn't know what would happen if he did. That can't be done again. It's
played out
Then you can't help us at all
oh -- I did think you could
do something; I've been thinking about it ever since we saved your life
yesterday. I thought you'd be certain to be able to fetch back Father,
even if you couldn't manage Mother
Now DON'T
you know how it always upsets
me if you cry. I can't feel safe a moment. Look here; you must have some
new kind of charm
That's easier said than done
Not a bit of it
there's one of the strongest
charms in the world not a stone's throw from where you bought me
yesterday. The man that I bit so -- the first one, I mean -- went into
a shop to ask how much something cost -- I think he said it was a
concertina -- and while he was telling the man in the shop how much too
much he wanted for it, I saw the charm in a sort of tray, with a lot of
other things. If you can only buy THAT, you will be able to have your
heart's desire
I do hope you won't be waxy
but it's like this: when you
used to give us our wishes they almost always got us into some row
or other, and we used to think you wouldn't have been pleased if they
hadn't. Now, about this charm -- we haven't got over and above too much
tin, and if we blue it all on this charm and it turns out to be not up
to much -- well -- you see what I'm driving at, don't you
I see that YOU don't see more than the length of your nose, and THAT'S
not far
Look here, I HAD to give you the
wishes, and of course they turned out badly, in a sort of way, because
you hadn't the sense to wish for what was good for you. But this charm's
quite different. I haven't GOT to do this for you, it's just my own
generous kindness that makes me tell you about it. So it's bound to be
all right. See
Don't be cross
Please, PLEASE don't. You see, it's
all we've got; we shan't have any more pocket-money till Daddy comes
home -- unless he sends us some in a letter. But we DO trust you. And I
say all of you
don't you think it's worth spending ALL
the money, if there's even the chanciest chance of getting Father and
Mother back safe NOW? Just think of it! Oh, do let's
_I_ don't care what you do
I'll go back to sand
again till you've made up your minds
No, don't
We are quite mind
made-up -- don't you see we are? Let's get our hats. Will you come with
us
Of course
how else would you find the shop
It's not half the weight of The Lamb
How on earth do you know
I can't think how you do it
No -- I don't suppose you can
There's a tray there with rubbish in it
That's it! That's it! There, under that blue and yellow buckle, you can
see a bit sticking out. It's red. Do you see
Is it that thing something like a horse-shoe
And red,
like the common sealing-wax you do up parcels with
Yes, that's it
Now, you do just as you did before. Ask the price of
other things. That blue buckle would do. Then the man will get the tray
out of the window. I think you'd better be the one
We'll wait out here
I've got it
Do let's get home. We can't stand here like
stuck-pigs looking at it in the street
Now then
Now then! Let me see the charm
But there's only half of it here
It was all there was
There should be another piece
and a sort of pin to fasten the two together
Isn't half any good
Won't it work without the other bit
It cost
seven-and-six
Oh, bother, bother, bother
Don't be silly little
idiots
What shall we do
Go back to the shop and see if they haven't got the other half
I'll go to sand till you come back. Cheer up! Even the
bit you've got is SOME good, but it'll be no end of a bother if you
can't find the other
Well
No go
the man said the thing was perfect. He said
it was a Roman lady's locket, and people shouldn't buy curios if they
didn't know anything about arky -- something or other, and that he never
went back on a bargain, because it wasn't business, and he expected his
customers to act the same. He was simply nasty -- that's what he was, and
I want my dinner
Well
things might be worse.
Only you won't be surprised if you have a few adventures before you get
the other half. You want to get it, of course
Rather
And we don't mind adventures
No
I seem to remember that about you. Well, sit
down and listen with all your ears. Eight, are there? Right -- I am glad
you know arithmetic. Now pay attention, because I don't intend to tell
you everything twice over
Now
you are not particularly nice, nor
particularly clever, and you're not at all good-looking. Still, you've
saved my life -- oh, when I think of that man and his pail of water!-- so
I'll tell you all I know. At least, of course I can't do that, because I
know far too much. But I'll tell you all I know about this red thing
Do! Do! Do! Do
Well, then
This thing is half of an Amulet that
can do all sorts of things; it can make the corn grow, and the waters
flow, and the trees bear fruit, and the little new beautiful babies
come. (Not that babies ARE beautiful, of course
but their mothers think they are -- and as long as you think a thing's
true it IS true as far as you're concerned
The complete Amulet can keep off all the things that make people
unhappy -- jealousy, bad temper, pride, disagreeableness, greediness,
selfishness, laziness. Evil spirits, people called them when the Amulet
was made. Don't you think it would be nice to have it
Very
And it can give you strength and courage
That's better
And virtue
I suppose it's nice to have that
And it can give you your heart's desire
Now you're talking
Of course I am
so there's no need for
you to
Heart's desire is good enough for me
Yes, but
all that's what the WHOLE charm can do.
There's something that the half we've got can win off its own bat -- isn't
there
Yes
the half has the power to take you anywhere you like to
look for the other half
Does it know where to look
I don't think it's likely
Do you
No
Then
we might as well look for a needle in a bottle of
hay. Yes -- it IS bottle, and not bundle, Father said so
Not at all
you think you know
everything, but you are quite mistaken. The first thing is to get the
thing to talk
Can it
Of course it can. I suppose you can read
Oh yes
Well, then -- all you've got to do is to read the name that's written on
the part of the charm that you've got. And as soon as you say the name
out loud the thing will have power to do -- well, several things
There's no name on it
Nonsense
what's that
Oh, THAT
it's not reading. It looks like pictures of
chickens and snakes and things
I've no patience with you
if you can't read you
must find some one who can. A priest now
We don't know any priests
we know a clergyman -- he's
called a priest in the prayer-book, you know -- but he only knows Greek
and Latin and Hebrew, and this isn't any of those -- I know
I wish I'd never seen you
you aren't any more good than so
many stone images. Not so much, if I'm to tell the truth. Is there no
wise man in your Babylon who can pronounce the names of the Great Ones
There's a poor learned gentleman upstairs
we might try
him. He has a lot of stone images in his room, and iron-looking ones
too -- we peeped in once when he was out. Old Nurse says he doesn't eat
enough to keep a canary alive. He spends it all on stones and things
Try him
only be careful. If he knows a greater
name than this and uses it against you, your charm will be of no use.
Bind him first with the chains of honour and upright dealing. And then
ask his aid -- oh, yes, you'd better all go; you can put me to sand as you
go upstairs. I must have a few minutes' peace and quietness
bind him with the chains of honour and
upright dealing
Oh
I beg
your pardon
It's us that beg yours
We are sorry to disturb
you
Come in
I am delighted to see you. Won't you sit
down? No, not there; allow me to move that papyrus
He treats us like grown-ups
and he doesn't seem to
know how many of us there are
Hush
it isn't manners to whisper. You say, Cyril -- go
ahead
We're very sorry to disturb you
but we did
knock three times, and you didn't say "Come in", or "Run away now", or
that you couldn't be bothered just now, or to come when you weren't so
busy, or any of the things people do say when you knock at doors, so we
opened it. We knew you were in because we heard you sneeze while we were
waiting
Not at all
do sit down
He has found out there are four of us
We know you are very, very learned
and we have got a
charm, and we want you to read the name on it, because it isn't in Latin
or Greek, or Hebrew, or any of the languages WE know
A thorough knowledge of even those languages is a very fair foundation
on which to build an education
Oh
but we only know them to look at, except
Latin -- and I'm only in Caesar with that
Of course
I'm sure I beg your pardon. I think I must have
been in a dream. You are the children who live downstairs, are you not?
Yes. I have seen you as I have passed in and out. And you have found
something that you think to be an antiquity, and you've brought it to
show me? That was very kind. I should like to inspect it
I'm afraid we didn't think about your liking to inspect it
It was just for US because we wanted to know the name
on it
Oh, yes -- and, I say
you won't think it rude
of us if we ask you first, before we show it, to be bound in the
what-do-you-call-it of
In the bonds of honour and upright dealing
I'm afraid I don't quite follow you
Well, it's this way
We've got part of a charm. And the
Sammy -- I mean, something told us it would work, though it's only half a
one; but it won't work unless we can say the name that's on it. But, of
course, if you've got another name that can lick ours, our charm will
be no go; so we want you to give us your word of honour as a
gentleman -- though I'm sure, now I've seen you, that it's not necessary;
but still I've promised to ask you, so we must. Will you please give us
your honourable word not to say any name stronger than the name on our
charm
Bless me
Who told
you all this
I can't tell you
I'm very sorry, but I can't
I see
It is some sort
of game that you are engaged in? Of course! Yes! Well, I will certainly
promise. Yet I wonder how you heard of the names of power
We can't tell you that either
Here is
our charm
Excuse me
Where did you find this
We didn't find it. We bought it at a shop. Jacob Absalom the name
is -- not far from Charing Cross
We gave seven-and-sixpence for it
Yes
we know that, so of course we want to keep it
Keep it carefully, then
and if ever
you should wish to part with it, may I ask you to give me the refusal of
it
The refusal
I mean, do not sell it to anyone else until you have given me the
opportunity of buying it
All right
we won't. But we don't want to sell it. We
want to make it do things
I suppose you can play at that as well as at anything else
but I'm afraid the days of magic are over
They aren't REALLY
You'd see they aren't if I
could tell you about our last summer holidays. Only I mustn't. Thank you
very much. And can you read the name
Yes, I can read it
Will you tell it us
The name
is Ur Hekau
Setcheh
Ur Hekau Setcheh
Thanks awfully. I do hope we
haven't taken up too much of your time
Not at all
And do let me entreat you to be very,
very careful of that most valuable specimen
I hope you won't be cross and say it's not my business
Thank you, my dear. It was a kindly thought. No, I haven't anyone to
remind me about things like that
It looks very nasty
Yes
it does. I'll eat it immediately, before I forget
Speak. What is it that you would hear
Please we want to know where the other half of the charm is
The part of the Amulet which is lost
was
broken and ground into the dust of the shrine that held it. It and the
pin that joined the two halves are themselves dust, and the dust is
scattered over many lands and sunk in many seas
Oh, I say
Then it's all
up
it's no use our looking for a thing that's
smashed into dust, and the dust scattered all over the place
If you would find it
You must seek it where it still
is, perfect as ever
I don't understand
In the Past you may find it
I wish we MAY find it
Don't you understand? The thing existed
in the Past. If you were in the Past, too, you could find it. It's very
difficult to make you understand things. Time and space are only forms
of thought
I see
No, you don't
and it doesn't matter if you don't,
either. What I mean is that if you were only made the right way, you
could see everything happening in the same place at the same time. Now
do you see
I'm afraid _I_ don't
I'm sorry I'm so stupid
Well, at any rate, you see this. That lost half of the Amulet is in the
Past. Therefore it's in the Past we must look for it. I mustn't speak to
the charm myself. Ask it things! Find out
Where can we find the other part of you
In the Past
What part of the Past
I may not tell you. If you will choose a time, I will take you to the
place that then held it. You yourselves must find it
When did you see it last
I mean, when was it taken
away from you
That was thousands of years ago. The Amulet was perfect then, and lay
in a shrine, the last of many shrines, and I worked wonders. Then came
strange men with strange weapons and destroyed my shrine, and the Amulet
they bore away with many captives. But of these, one, my priest, knew
the word of power, and spoke it for me, so that the Amulet became
invisible, and thus returned to my shrine, but the shrine was broken
down, and ere any magic could rebuild it one spoke a word before which
my power bowed down and was still. And the Amulet lay there, still
perfect, but enslaved. Then one coming with stones to rebuild the
shrine, dropped a hewn stone on the Amulet as it lay, and one half was
sundered from the other. I had no power to seek for that which was lost.
And there being none to speak the word of power, I could not rejoin it.
So the Amulet lay in the dust of the desert many thousand years, and at
last came a small man, a conqueror with an army, and after him a crowd
of men who sought to seem wise, and one of these found half the Amulet
and brought it to this land. But none could read the name. So I lay
still. And this man dying and his son after him, the Amulet was sold by
those who came after to a merchant, and from him you bought it, and it
is here, and now, the name of power having been spoken, I also am here
Can you take us into the Past -- to the shrine where you and the other
thing were together. If you could take us there, we might find the other
part still there after all these thousands of years
Still there? silly
Don't you see, if we go back into the
Past it won't be thousands of years ago. It will be NOW for us -- won't
it
You're not so far off the idea as you usually are
Well
will you take us back to when there was a shrine
and you were safe in it -- all of you
Yes
You must hold me up, and speak the word of
power, and one by one, beginning with the first-born, you shall pass
through me into the Past. But let the last that passes be the one that
holds me, and let him not lose his hold, lest you lose me, and so remain
in the Past for ever
That's a nasty idea
When you desire to return
hold me up
towards the East, and speak the word. Then, passing through me, you
shall return to this time and it shall be the present to you
But how
Oh crikey
that's tea! Will you please make it
proper daylight again so that we can go down. And thank you so much for
all your kindness
We've enjoyed ourselves very much indeed, thank you
It would be so awful if it got lost
it might get lost
anywhere, you know, and it would be rather beastly for us to have to
stay in the Past for ever and ever, wouldn't it
poor
learned gentleman's' breakfast. He did not recognize her at first, but
when he did he was vaguely pleased to see her.

'You see I'm wearing the charm round my neck
I'm taking
care of it -- like you told us to
That's right
did you have a good game last night
You will eat your breakfast before it's cold, won't you
Yes, we had a splendid time. The charm made it all dark, and then
greeny light, and then it spoke. Oh! I wish you could have heard it -- it
was such a darling voice -- and it told us the other half of it was lost
in the Past, so of course we shall have to look for it there
I suppose it's natural -- youthful imagination and so forth
Yet someone must have... Who told you that some part of the charm was
missing
I can't tell you
I know it seems most awfully rude,
especially after being so kind about telling us the name of power, and
all that, but really, I'm not allowed to tell anybody anything about
the -- the -- the person who told me. You won't forget your breakfast, will
you
Thank you
I shall always be pleased if you'll look in -- any
time you're passing you know -- at least
I will
goodbye. I'll always tell you anything I MAY tell
The Secret Rites of the Priests of Amen Ra
Don't let's
You can get yourselves some buns or sponge-cakes, or whatever you
fancy-like
Don't go getting
jam-tarts, now -- so messy at the best of times, and without forks and
plates ruination to your clothes, besides your not being able to wash
your hands and faces afterwards
We've got to go on with it
and as the eldest has to go
first, you'll have to be last, Jane. You quite understand about holding
on to the charm as you go through, don't you, Pussy
I wish I hadn't got to be last
You shall carry the Psammead if you like
That is
if it'll let you
_I_ don't mind
who carries me, so long as it doesn't drop
me. I can't bear being dropped
Here goes
Well
this IS a change of air
I wish I knew where we were
Here's a river, now -- I wonder whether it's the Amazon or the Tiber, or
what
It's the Nile
Then this is Egypt
I don't see any crocodiles
What do you call that
Oh
And there's a river-horse
It's a hippopotamus
it seems much more real somehow than
the one at the Zoo, doesn't it
I'm glad it's being real on the other side of the river
Keep your hand on the charm, Jane
We ought to
have a means of escape handy. I'm dead certain this is the sort of place
where simply anything might happen to us
I believe a hippopotamus is going to happen to us
a very,
very big one
Don't be silly little duffers
it's not a river-horse. It's a human
Don't be frightened
we won't hurt you
Who are you
Who are you
We are children -- just like you. Don't be frightened. Won't you show us
where you live
Is it safe? Won't they eat us? Are they cannibals
Don't make your voice buzz like that, it tickles my ears
You can always get back to Regent's Park in time if you
keep fast hold of the charm
Here
this is for you. That is
to show we will not hurt you. And if you take it I shall know that you
won't hurt us
Come
it is peace between
your house and mine
This is something like
Yes
this really and truly IS an adventure! Its being in the Past makes it
quite different from the Phoenix and Carpet happenings
That is where I live
I won't go
unless you say it's all
right
If you don't go now I'll never help you again
OH
dear Jane, don't! Think of Father and Mother
and all of us getting our heart's desire. And we can go back any minute.
Come on
Besides
the Psammead must know there's
no danger or it wouldn't go. It's not so over and above brave itself.
Come on
What's that for
To keep out foes and wild beasts
I should think it ought to, too
Why, some of the thorns are
as long as my foot
They are wonder-children from beyond the desert. They bring marvellous
gifts, and I have said that it is peace between us and them
Do say something
We come
we come from the world where the sun never sets. And peace
with honour is what we want. We are the great Anglo-Saxon or conquering
race. Not that we want to conquer YOU
We only want
to look at your houses and your -- well, at all you've got here, and then
we shall return to our own place, and tell of all that we have seen so
that your name may be famed
What is this? What is this
Take this
and look at it. And leave us alone. We want to
talk among ourselves
I say
what a lot we could teach them if we stayed
here
I expect they could teach us something too
Did you
notice that flint bracelet the woman had that Anthea gave the collar to?
That must have taken some making. Look here, they'll get suspicious if
we talk among ourselves, and I do want to know about how they do things.
Let's get the girl to show us round, and we can be thinking about how to
get the Amulet at the same time. Only mind, we must keep together
Tell us how you make the bracelets, the stone ones
With other stones
the men make them; we have men of
special skill in such work
Haven't you any iron tools
Iron
I don't know what you mean
Are all your tools of flint
Of course
It is really wonderful
when you consider
that it's all eight thousand years ago
I don't understand you
It ISN'T eight thousand years ago
It's NOW -- and
that's just what I don't like about it. I say, DO let's get home again
before anything more happens. You can see for yourselves the charm isn't
here
What's in that place in the middle
That's the secret sacred place
No one
knows what is there. There are many walls, and inside the insidest one
IT is, but no one knows what IT is except the headsmen
I believe YOU know
I'll give you this if you'll tell me
Yes
My father is one of
the heads, and I know a water charm to make him talk in his sleep. And
he has spoken. I will tell you. But if they know I have told you they
will kill me. In the insidest inside there is a stone box, and in it
there is the Amulet. None knows whence it came. It came from very far
away
Have you seen it
Is it anything like this
Hide it, hide it
You must put it back. If they see it
they will kill us all. You for taking it, and me for knowing that there
was such a thing. Oh, woe -- woe! why did you ever come here
Don't be frightened
They shan't know. Jane, don't you
be such a little jack-ape again -- that's all. You see what will happen if
you do. Now, tell me
Many foes are upon us
Make ready the defences
Oh,
DO let's go home
Look here -- I don't care -- I WILL
You haven't said the word of power
Hold it up towards the East, you silly
Which IS the East
Hide the sacred thing! Hide it! Hide it
Hide it up, Pussy
We are in for it now. We've just got to
stay and see it out
Look here
I think perhaps the Psammead is really arranging
something for us. I don't believe it would go away and leave us all
alone in the Past. I'm certain it wouldn't
But what can we do
Nothing
except keep our eyes and ears open.
Look! That runner chap's getting his wind. Let's go and hear what he's
got to say
I went out in my raft to snare ibises, and I had gone up the stream an
hour's journey. Then I set my snares and waited. And I heard the sound
of many wings, and looking up, saw many herons circling in the air. And
I saw that they were afraid; so I took thought. A beast may scare one
heron, coming upon it suddenly, but no beast will scare a whole flock of
herons. And still they flew and circled, and would not light. So then I
knew that what scared the herons must be men, and men who knew not our
ways of going softly so as to take the birds and beasts unawares. By
this I knew they were not of our race or of our place. So, leaving my
raft, I crept along the river bank, and at last came upon the strangers.
They are many as the sands of the desert, and their spear-heads shine
red like the sun. They are a terrible people, and their march is towards
US. Having seen this, I ran, and did not stay till I was before you
These are YOUR folk
you came as spies for them
We did NOT
We wouldn't be spies for
anything. I'm certain these people aren't a bit like us. Are they now
No
These men's faces were darkened, and their hair
black as night. Yet these strange children, maybe, are their gods, who
have come before to make ready the way for them
No, NO
We are on your side. We will help you to
guard your sacred things
It is well. And now let all make offering, that we may be strong in
battle
They're making offerings to their Amulet
We'd better
give something too
This is a day of very wondrous happenings
I have no more
room in me to be astonished. Our maiden said there was peace between you
and us. But for this coming of a foe we should have made sure
Now speak. Are you upon our side
YES. Don't I keep telling you we are
Look here. I will
give you a sign. You see this
I shall
speak to it, and if it answers me you will know that I and the others
are come to guard your sacred thing -- that we've just made the offerings
to
Will that god whose image you hold in your hand speak to you alone, or
shall I also hear it
You'll be surprised when you DO hear it
Now, then
If we are to guard the sacred treasure within
speak with thy loud voice, and we shall obey
The voice has spoken
Lead them into the ante-room of the
sacred thing
It's like the maze at Hampton Court
Here you may wait
but do not dare to pass the
curtain
But look here
some of us ought to be outside in
case the Psammead turns up
Don't let's get separated from each other, whatever we do
My father says they will not attack yet. Sleep
I suppose we'd better go to sleep
I don't know what on
earth poor old Nurse will do with us out all night; set the police on
our tracks, I expect. I only wish they could find us! A dozen policemen
would be rather welcome just now. But it's no use getting into a stew
over it
Good night
It is the voice of the strange men
They have attacked the walls, and the
thorns have driven them back. My father says they will not try again
till daylight. But they are shouting to frighten us. As though we were
savages! Dwellers in the swamps
I believe they go and touch the Amulet
You know the
Psammead said it could make people brave
They're in! They're in! The hedge is down
He's gone to hide it
Oh, Psammead dear, how could you
leave us
Oh! What is it? What is it
Oh, Psammead, how could
you! How could you
Oh, Psammead, Psammead
Well
Oh! which IS the East
Don't choke me
come inside
I've got a match
I've been asleep here
most comfortable it's been,
the best sand I've had for a month. It's all right. Everything's all
right. I knew your only chance would be while the fight was going on.
That man won't come back. I bit him, and he thinks I'm an Evil Spirit.
Now you've only got to take the thing and go
Is the thing in there
You must judge of that
The man was just going to
bury the box in the sand when I jumped out at him and bit him
Light another match, Robert
Now, then quick! which is
the East
Why, where the sun rises, of course
But someone told us
Oh! they'll tell you anything
But we can't see the sun in here, and it isn't rising anyhow
How you do waste time
Why, the East's where the
shrine is, of course. THERE
Now, Jane
I'll take the Amulet, you stand
ready to hold up the charm, and be sure you don't let it go as you come
through
Here is their Amulet
it is this that
makes them strong to fight and brave to die. And what else have we
here -- gods or demons
Jane, JANE, QUICK
Hold tight, Jane
My hat
that was something like an
adventure
It was rather like one, certainly
We'd better go home at once
Old Nurse will be
most frightfully anxious. The sun looks about the same as it did when
we started yesterday. We've been away twenty-four hours
The buns are
quite soft still
I suppose the dew kept them
fresh
Well, if ever I did
What's gone wrong? You've soon tired
of your picnic
How nice and
clean you look
We're very sorry
Oh, bless me, child, I don't care! Please yourselves and you'll please
me. Come in and get your dinners comf'table. I've got a potato on
a-boiling
What's the matter? Don't you understand? You come back through the
charm-arch at the same time as you go through it. This isn't tomorrow
Is it still yesterday
No, it's today. The same as it's always been. It wouldn't do to go
mixing up the present and the Past, and cutting bits out of one to fit
into the other
Then all that adventure took no time at all
You can call it that if you like
It took none of
the modern time, anyhow
This afternoon we found ourselves on the bank of the River Nile
And then we remembered how to get back, and there we
were in Regent's Park, and it hadn't taken any time at all
You are a most unusual little girl
Who tells you all these
things
No one
they just happen
Make-believe
I really must take a holiday
my nerves must be all out of
order. I actually have a perfectly distinct impression that the little
girl from the rooms below came in and gave me a coherent and graphic
picture of life as I conceive it to have been in pre-dynastic Egypt.
Strange what tricks the mind will play! I shall have to be more
careful
How many miles to Babylon?
   Three score and ten!
   Can I get there by candle light?
   Yes, and back again
What a beastly mess
Do shut up, Jane
I'm sick to death of that
I say -- about that charm -- Jane -- come out. We ought to talk about it,
anyhow
Oh, if that's all
It ISN'T all
We ought to go and look for that Amulet. What's the good of having a
first-class charm and keeping it idle, just eating its head off in the
stable
I'M game for anything, of course
only I don't think the girls are keen today
somehow
Oh, yes; I am
If you think I'm afraid, I'm
not
I am though
I didn't like it, and I won't go
there again -- not for anything I won't
We shouldn't go THERE again, silly
it would be some
other place
I daresay; a place with lions and tigers in it as likely as not
It's so ungrateful to the Psammead not to
I won't
I won't, I won't, I won't! If you make me I'll
scream and I'll scream, and I'll tell old Nurse, and I'll get her to
burn the charm in the kitchen fire. So now, then
No one can say it's OUR fault
Tell-tale tit, its tongue shall be split,
   And all the dogs in our town shall have a little bit
It's always the way if you have girls in anything
Well, I'M not afraid if I AM a girl
I don't care
I won't, so there! It's just silly going
to places when you don't want to, and when you don't know what they're
going to be like! You can laugh at me as much as you like. You're
beasts -- and I hate you all
Oh! let it be "pax"-- poor little Pussy -- you know
she's the youngest
She called us beasts
we began, you know. At least you did
I'm not going to say I'm sorry if you mean that
Oh, do let's
we're three to one, and Mother does so
hate it if we row. Come on. I'll say I'm sorry first, though I didn't
say anything, hardly
All right, let's get it over
How many miles (sniff) to Babylon?
   Three score and ten! (sniff)
   Can I get there by candle light?
   Yes (sniff), and back again
I say, Pussy, let it be pax! We're sorry if you are
I'm sorry if I was a pig, Pussy dear
especially because
in my really and truly inside mind I've been feeling a little as if
I'd rather not go into the Past again either. But then, do think. If we
don't go we shan't get the Amulet, and oh, Pussy, think if we could only
get Father and Mother and The Lamb safe back! We MUST go, but we'll wait
a day or two if you like and then perhaps you'll feel braver
Raw meat makes you brave, however cowardly you are
and cranberries -- that's
what Tartars eat, and they're so brave it's simply awful. I suppose
cranberries are only for Christmas time, but I'll ask old Nurse to let
you have your chop very raw if you like
I think I could be brave without that
I'll try
Excuse me
but
was I mistaken in thinking that I caught a familiar word just now? Were
you not singing some old ballad of Babylon
No
at least Jane was singing "How many miles," but I
shouldn't have thought you could have heard the words for
for the sniffing
I did not hear ALL the words
I wonder
would you recite them to me
How many miles to Babylon?
   Three score and ten!
   Can I get there by candle light?
   Yes, and back again
I wish one could
Can't you
Babylon has fallen
You know it was once a
great and beautiful city, and the centre of learning and Art, and now
it is only ruins, and so covered up with earth that people are not even
agreed as to where it once stood
I say
You know that charm we showed you,
and you told us how to say the name that's on it
Yes
Well, do you think that charm was ever in Babylon
It's quite possible
Such charms have
been found in very early Egyptian tombs, yet their origin has not been
accurately determined as Egyptian. They may have been brought from Asia.
Or, supposing the charm to have been fashioned in Egypt, it might very
well have been carried to Babylon by some friendly embassy, or brought
back by the Babylonish army from some Egyptian campaign as part of the
spoils of war. The inscription may be much later than the charm. Oh yes!
it is a pleasant fancy, that that splendid specimen of yours was once
used amid Babylonish surroundings
Were the Babylon people savages, were they always fighting and throwing
things about
The Babylonians were certainly more gentle than the Assyrians
And they were not savages by any means. A very
high level of culture
I mean that they made beautiful statues and jewellery, and
built splendid palaces. And they were very learned -- they had glorious
libraries and high towers for the purpose of astrological and
astronomical observation
Er
I mean for -- star-gazing and fortune-telling
and there were temples and beautiful hanging gardens
I'll go to Babylon if you like
Done
Ah
one can go so
far in dreams, when one is young
I hope you'll have a -- a -- jolly game
He said "jolly" as if it was a foreign language
Come
on, let's get the Psammead and go now. I think Babylon seems a most
frightfully jolly place to go to
The sand is
good thereabouts
We want to go to Babylon to look for the part of you that was lost.
Will you please let us go there through you
Please put us down just outside
and then if we
don't like it we needn't go inside
Don't be all day
Ur -- Hekau -- Setcheh
Oh, how perfectly lovely
Why, it's like home exactly -- I mean England -- only everything's bluer,
and whiter, and greener, and the flowers are bigger
I'm certain there's nothing to be frightened of here
I don't know
I suppose the fruit-trees go on just the
same even when people are killing each other. I didn't half like what
the learned gentleman said about the hanging gardens. I suppose they
have gardens on purpose to hang people in. I do hope this isn't one
Of course it isn't
The hanging gardens are just gardens
hung up -- _I_ think on chains between houses, don't you know, like trays.
Come on; let's get somewhere
It's like between the squares in Through the Looking-glass
These are vines
and I know this is a
vineyard. I shouldn't wonder if there was a wine-press inside that place
over there
Those feathery things along by the water are palms
Oh, yes; you know everything
What's all that
grey-green stuff you see away over there, where it's all flat and
sandy
All right
_I_ don't want to tell you anything. I
only thought you'd like to know a palm-tree when you saw it again
Look
they're opening the gates
I don't like the sound of those gates
Fancy being inside
when they shut. You'd never get out
You've got an arch of your own to go out by
Don't behave so like a girl. If I were
you I should just march right into the town and ask to see the king
Courage
Step out. It's no use trying to sneak past. Be
bold
The British
Grenadiers', and to its quick-step they approached the gates of Babylon.

   'Some talk of Alexander,
   And some of Hercules,
   Of Hector and Lysander,
   And such great names as these.
   But of all the gallant heroes
Who goes there
We come from very far
From the Empire where
the sun never sets, and we want to see your King
If it's quite convenient
The King (may he live for
ever
is gone to fetch home his fourteenth
wife. Where on earth have you come from not to know that
The Queen then
The Queen
may she live for ever!) gives
audience today three hours after sunrising
But what are we to do till the end of the three hours
Let them go in and look about them
I'll wager my best sword
they've never seen anything to come near our little -- village
They're only children, after all
Let me off for a few minutes, Captain, and I'll take them
to my place and see if my good woman can't fit them up in something a
little less outlandish than their present rig. Then they can have a look
round without being mobbed. May I go
Oh yes, if you like
but don't be all day
Here
just lend these children a mantle each, so that they
can go about and see the place till the Queen's audience begins. You
leave that wool for a bit, and show them round if you like. I must be
off now
It's nearly time now. We ought to be getting on towards the palace.
It's as well to be early
I can't be bothered with queens. I'll go home with this lady. I'm sure
she'll get me some sand if you ask her to
Oh! don't leave us
Don't be a little muff
It's not a
bit of good your having a charm. You never use it. If you want me you've
only got to say the name of power and ask the charm to bring me to you
I'd rather go with you
You needn't gawp like that
I'm not going to be
bothered with queens any more than IT is. And I know, wherever it is,
it'll take jolly good care that it's safe
She's right there
You'll take me home with you, won't
you? And let me play with your little girls till the others have done
with the Queen
Surely I will, little heart
Let's ask the porter to take care of our Babylonian overcoats
We want to see the Queen
we come from the far Empire
where the sun never sets
Three children from the land where the sun never sets! Let them draw
hither without fear
O Queen, live for ever
Don't be frightened, I really am SO glad you came! The land where
the sun never sets! I am delighted to see you! I was getting quite too
dreadfully bored for anything
Bobs, don't say anything to Panther. It's no use upsetting her, but we
didn't ask for Jane's address, and the Psammead's with her
Well
the charm can bring them to us at any moment.
IT said so
Oh, yes
WE'RE all right, of
course. So we are! Oh, yes! If we'd only GOT the charm
Crikey
Jane's got the charm round her neck, you silly cuckoo
Crikey
Just make yourselves comfortable there
I'm simply dying
to talk to you, and to hear all about your wonderful country and how you
got here, and everything, but I have to do justice every morning. Such a
bore, isn't it? Do you do justice in your own country
at least of course we try to, but not in this public
sort of way, only in private
Ah, yes
I should
much prefer a private audience myself -- much easier to manage. But public
opinion has to be considered. Doing justice is very hard work, even when
you're brought up to it
We don't do justice, but we have to do scales, Jane and me
twenty minutes a day. It's simply horrid
What are scales
and what is Jane
Jane is my little sister. One of the guards-at-the-gate's wife is
taking care of her. And scales are music
I never heard of the instrument
Do you sing
Oh, yes. We can sing in parts
That IS magic
How many parts are you each cut into
before you do it
We aren't cut at all
We couldn't sing if we
were. We'll show you afterwards
So you shall, and now sit quiet like dear children and hear me do
justice. The way I do it has always been admired. I oughtn't to say that
ought I? Sounds so conceited. But I don't mind with you, dears. Somehow
I feel as though I'd known you quite a long time already
Put both the men in prison till one of them owns up that the other is
innocent
But suppose they both did it
Then prison's the best place for them
But suppose neither did it
That's impossible
a thing's not done unless someone
does it. And you mustn't interrupt
What for
They SAID it was for speaking evil of your Majesty
but it wasn't. Someone had a spite against him. That was what it was
How do you know he hadn't spoken evil of me
No one could
when they'd once seen your
beautiful face
Let the man out
Next case
Like the Spartan
boy
The audience is over for today
May the Queen live for ever
There
THAT'S over! I
couldn't have done another stitch of justice if you'd offered me the
crown of Egypt! Now come into the garden, and we'll have a nice, long,
cosy talk
That's rather a nasty trick
Not at all
Ritti-Marduk is a very clean man. And one has
to have SOME ONE as taster, you know, because of poison
Leave us
Now
tell me all about yourselves
You, Bobs
No -- Anthea
No -- you -- Cyril
Don't you remember how pleased the Queen
of India was when you told her all about us
Something to do with our being in
the Past, I suppose
This is MOST interesting
We must have this Psammead
for the banquet tonight. Its performance will be one of the most popular
turns in the whole programme. Where is it
Oh, THAT'S quite simple
Ritti-Marduk shall run down to the gates and find out which guard your
sister went home with
Might he
might he -- would it interfere
with his meal-times, or anything like that, if he went NOW
Of course he shall go now. He may think himself lucky if he gets his
meals at any time
May I send a letter
By all means. I'll call my scribe
Oh, I can scribe right enough, thanks
Oh, you clever, clever boy
DO let me watch you do
it
Hide IT most carefully before you come here
and don't
mention it -- and destroy this letter. Everything is going A1. The Queen
is a fair treat. There's nothing to be afraid of
What curious characters, and what a strange flat surface
What have you inscribed
scribed
that you are fair, and
a -- and like a -- like a festival; and that she need not be afraid, and
that she is to come at once
O Queen, live for ever! Is it a charm
A strong
charm, most great lady
YES
it IS a charm, but it won't hurt
anyone until you've given it to Jane. And then she'll destroy it,
so that it CAN'T hurt anyone. It's most awful strong!-- as strong
as -- Peppermint
I know not the god
She'll tear it up directly she gets it
That'll end the
charm. You needn't be afraid if you go now
What a wonderful substance
And with this style you make
charms? Make a charm for me! Do you know
the names of the great ones of your own far country
Rather
You shall teach me later to say the great names
And the
names of their Ministers -- perhaps the great Nisroch is one of them
I don't think so
Mr Campbell Bannerman's Prime Minister
and Mr Burns a Minister, and so is the Archbishop of Canterbury, I
think, but I'm not sure -- and Dr Parker was one, I know, and
No more
My head's
going round with all those great names. You shall teach them to me
later -- because of course you'll make us a nice long visit now you have
come, won't you? Now tell me -- but no, I am quite tired out with your
being so clever. Besides, I'm sure you'd like ME to tell YOU something,
wouldn't you
Yes
I want to know how it is that the King has gone
Excuse me, but you should say "the King may-he-live-for-ever
I beg your pardon
the King
may-he-live-for-ever has gone to fetch home his fourteenth wife? I don't
think even Bluebeard had as many as that. And, besides, he hasn't killed
YOU at any rate
She means
that English kings only have one
wife -- at least, Henry the Eighth had seven or eight, but not all at
once
In our country
a king would not reign
a day who had only one wife. No one would respect him, and quite right
too
Then are all the other thirteen alive
Of course they are -- poor mean-spirited things! I don't associate with
them, of course, I am the Queen: they're only the wives
I see
But oh, my dears
such a to-do as there's been
about this last wife! You never did! It really was TOO funny. We wanted
an Egyptian princess. The King may-he-live-for-ever has got a wife from
most of the important nations, and he had set his heart on an Egyptian
one to complete his collection. Well, of course, to begin with, we
sent a handsome present of gold. The Egyptian king sent back some
horses -- quite a few; he's fearfully stingy!-- and he said he liked the
gold very much, but what they were really short of was lapis lazuli, so
of course we sent him some. But by that time he'd begun to use the gold
to cover the beams of the roof of the Temple of the Sun-God, and he
hadn't nearly enough to finish the job, so we sent some more. And so it
went on, oh, for years. You see each journey takes at least six months.
And at last we asked the hand of his daughter in marriage
Yes, and then
Well, then
when he'd got everything out of us that
he could, and only given the meanest presents in return, he sent to
say he would esteem the honour of an alliance very highly, only
unfortunately he hadn't any daughter, but he hoped one would be born
soon, and if so, she should certainly be reserved for the King of
Babylon
What a trick
Yes, wasn't it? So then we said his sister would do, and then there
were more gifts and more journeys; and now at last the tiresome,
black-haired thing is coming, and the King may-he-live-for-ever has gone
seven days' journey to meet her at Carchemish. And he's gone in his best
chariot, the one inlaid with lapis lazuli and gold, with the gold-plated
wheels and onyx-studded hubs -- much too great an honour in my opinion.
She'll be here tonight; there'll be a grand banquet to celebrate her
arrival. SHE won't be present, of course. She'll be having her baths and
her anointings, and all that sort of thing. We always clean our foreign
brides very carefully. It takes two or three weeks. Now it's dinnertime,
and you shall eat with me, for I can see that you are of high rank
Good gracious
what a time we've slept! I must rush off
and dress for the banquet. I shan't have much more than time
Hasn't Ritti-Marduk got back with our sister and the Psammead yet
I QUITE forgot to ask. I'm sorry
And of course
they wouldn't announce her unless I told them to, except during justice
hours. I expect she's waiting outside. I'll see
I regret
that I have been unable to find your sister. The
beast she bears with her in a basket has bitten the child of the guard,
and your sister and the beast set out to come to you. The police say
they have a clue. No doubt we shall have news of her in a few weeks
After all, she's with the Psammead, so SHE'S all right. The Psammead is
jolly careful of itself too. And it isn't as if we were in any danger.
Let's try to buck up and enjoy the banquet
By the beard of Nimrod
ask what you like girl, and you
shall have it
I want nothing
the honour of having pleased the
King may-he-live-for-ever is reward enough for me
I say
It's all right
it's not his best collar by any
means. We always keep a stock of cheap jewellery for these occasions.
And now -- you promised to sing us something. Would you like my minstrels
to accompany you
No, thank you
What shall we sing
Sweet and low
Too soft -- I vote for "Who will o'er the downs". Now then -- one, two,
three.

   'Oh, who will o'er the downs so free,
   Oh, who will with me ride,
   Oh, who will up and follow me,
   To win a blooming bride?

   Her father he has locked the door,
   Her mother keeps the key;
   But neither bolt nor bar shall keep
   My own true love from me
More, more
by my beard, this savage music is a new
thing. Sing again
Twas guarded then no more.

   The varlets they were all asleep,
   And there was none to see
   The greeting fair that passed there
   Between my love and me
By the beak of Nisroch, ask what you will, strangers from the land
where the sun never sets
We ought to say it's enough honour, like the dancer did
No, let's ask for IT
No, no, I'm sure the other's manners
Give us the half of the Amulet that has on it the name UR HEKAU
SETCHEH
O King, live-for-ever
Guard, seize them
Impious and sacrilegious wretches
To the dungeons
with them! We will find a way, tomorrow, to make them speak. For without
doubt they can tell us where to find the lost half of It
You've done it this time
Oh, it will come right. It MUST. It always does
It's my belief we really ARE going to the deepest dungeon below the
castle moat this time
This is YOUR doing
I told you so
Sacrilege, and impious cheek
To be kept during the King's pleasure. I expect he means to get
some pleasure out of them tomorrow! He'll tickle them up
Poor little kids
Oh, yes
I've got kids of my own too. But it
doesn't do to let domestic sentiment interfere with one's public duties.
Good night
Courage
I know it will be all right. It's only a dream
REALLY, you know. It MUST be! I don't believe about time being only a
something or other of thought. It IS a dream, and we're bound to wake up
all right and safe
Humph
It's all my doing. If it really IS all up do please not keep a down on
me about it, and tell Father -- Oh, I forgot
All right, Bobs, old man
There
Oh, thank you so very much. You ARE kind
Go to sleep
tomorrow comes soon enough
Oh, dear Mr Gaoler
whatever will they do to us
tomorrow
They'll try to make you tell things
and my
advice is if you've nothing to tell, make up something. Then perhaps
they'll sell you to the Northern nations. Regular savages THEY are. Good
night
Good night
I know the light won't last long
Is it any good, do you think, calling on the name when we haven't got
the charm
I shouldn't think so. But we might try
What was the name the Queen said
Nisbeth -- Nesbit -- something? You know, the slave of the great names
Wait a sec
though I don't know why you want it.
Nusroch -- Nisrock -- Nisroch -- that's it
UR HEKAU SETCHEH
Oh, Nisroch, servant
of the Great Ones, come and help us
Oh, go away
No; stay
Speak
The servant of the Great Ones is YOUR servant. What is
your need that you call on the name of Nisroch
We want to go home
No, no
we want to be where Jane is
Walk forward without fear
Is there aught else that the
Servant of the great Name can do for those who speak that name
No -- oh, no
It's all right now. Thanks ever so
You are a dear
Oh, thank you thank you. But DO go NOW
Go forward
Oh, my good gracious
How
did you get here? I KNEW you were magic. I meant to let you out the
first thing in the morning, if I could slip away -- but thanks be to
Dagon, you've managed it for yourselves. You must get away. I'll wake
my chief lady and she shall call Ritti-Marduk, and he'll let you out the
back way, and
Don't rouse anybody for goodness' sake
except Jane, and
I'll rouse her
Ritti-Marduk brought them in hours ago, really
but
I wanted to have the Psammead all to myself for a bit. You'll excuse the
little natural deception?-- it's part of the Babylonish character, don't
you know? But I don't want anything to happen to you. Do let me rouse
someone
No, no, no
We can go by our own magic. And you will tell the King it wasn't the
gaoler's fault. It was Nisroch
Nisroch
You are indeed magicians
Hold It up, and say the word
Which is the East
Behind me
Why
Ur Hekau Setcheh
Jane
go and get the plate
of sand down for the Psammead
Look here
don't let's tell her about the dungeon and all that.
It'll only frighten her so that she'll never want to go anywhere else
Righto
Why did you want to come back in such a hurry
It was awfully jolly in Babylon, I think! I
liked it no end
Oh, yes
It was jolly enough, of course, but I
thought we'd been there long enough. Mother always says you oughtn't to
wear out your welcome
Now tell us what happened to you
It wasn't much good going
if you didn't even try to get
the Amulet
We found out it was no go
it's not to be got in Babylon.
It was lost before that. We'll go to some other jolly friendly place,
where everyone is kind and pleasant, and look for it there. Now tell us
about your part
Oh
the Queen's man with the smooth face -- what was his
name
Ritti-Marduk
Yes
Ritti-Marduk, he came for me just after the Psammead
had bitten the guard-of-the-gate's wife's little boy, and he took me to
the Palace. And we had supper with the new little Queen from Egypt. She
is a dear -- not much older than you. She told me heaps about Egypt. And
we played ball after supper. And then the Babylon Queen sent for me. I
like her too. And she talked to the Psammead and I went to sleep. And
then you woke me up. That's all
But
what possessed you to tell that Queen that I could
give wishes? I sometimes think you were born without even the most
rudimentary imitation of brains
I don't see that we did any harm
Oh, no
not at all! Of course
not! Quite the contrary! Exactly so! Only she happened to wish that she
might soon find herself in your country. And soon may mean any moment
Then it's your fault
because you might just as well
have made "soon" mean some moment next year or next century
That's where you, as so often happens, make the mistake
_I_ couldn't mean anything but what SHE meant by "soon". It
wasn't my wish. And what SHE meant was the next time the King happens to
go out lion hunting. So she'll have a whole day, and perhaps two, to
do as she wishes with. SHE doesn't know about time only being a mode of
thought
Well
we must do what we can
to give her a good time. She was jolly decent to us. I say, suppose we
were to go to St James's Park after dinner and feed those ducks that we
never did feed. After all that Babylon and all those years ago, I
feel as if I should like to see something REAL, and NOW. You'll come,
Psammead
Where's my priceless woven basket of sacred rushes
I can't go out with nothing on. And I won't, what's more
But it's not so extra precious
You can get them
given to you for nothing if you buy fish in Farringdon Market
Oh
so you presume on my
sublime indifference to the things of this disgusting modern world, to
fob me off with a travelling equipage that costs you nothing. Very well,
I shall go to sand. Please don't wake me
Humph
it's not so dusty
It's more worthy of me
than the kind of bag that's given
away with a pound of plaice. When do you propose to take me out in it
I should like a rest from taking you or us anywhere
I want to go to Egypt. I did like that Egyptian Princess that came
to marry the King in Babylon. She told me about the larks they have in
Egypt. And the cats. Do let's go there. And I told her what the bird
things on the Amulet were like. And she said it was Egyptian writing
Egypt's so nice too
because of Doctor Brewer's
Scripture History. I would like to go there when Joseph was dreaming
those curious dreams, or when Moses was doing wonderful things with
snakes and sticks
I don't care about snakes
Well, we needn't be in at that part, but Babylon was lovely! We had
cream and sweet, sticky stuff. And I expect Egypt's the same
Well, chickies
are you feeling very dull
Oh, no, Nurse dear
we're having a lovely time. We're
just going off to see some old ancient relics
Ah
the Royal Academy, I suppose? Don't go wasting
your money too reckless, that's all
To Egypt, please
When Moses was there
No, stop
What silly cuckoos we all are
Of course we can't go. We
daren't leave home for a single minute now, for fear that minute should
be THE minute
What minute be WHAT minute
The minute when the Queen of Babylon comes
I saw one like that
in
In the British Museum, perhaps
I like to call the place where I saw it Babylon
A pretty fancy
and quite correct too,
because, as a matter of fact, these beads did come from Babylon
I'm sure I am fonder of rhinoceroses
than either of you are
I think Babylon is most frightfully interesting
I do
have such interesting dreams about it -- at least, not dreams exactly, but
quite as wonderful
Do sit down and tell me
Wonderful -- wonderful
One's heard of
thought-transference, but I never thought _I_ had any power of that
sort. Yet it must be that, and very bad for YOU, I should think. Doesn't
your head ache very much
No thank you, not at all
I assure you it is not done intentionally
Of course I
know a good deal about Babylon, and I unconsciously communicate it to
you; you've heard of thought-reading, but some of the things you say,
I don't understand; they never enter my head, and yet they're so
astoundingly probable
It's all right
_I_ understand. And don't
worry. It's all quite simple really
Good gracious
what's that
This ain't November. That ain't no guy. It's a ballet lady, that's what
it is
Not it -- it's a bloomin
Retire, slaves
What's she a saying of
Some blamed foreign
lingo
Jimminy
here she is
Here
look out -- let the lady pass. She's a friend of ours,
coming to see us
Nice friend for a respectable house
Here
here's the Psammead; you can get wishes
_I_ wish you'd come in a different dress, if you HAD to come
but it's no use my wishing anything
No
I wish I was dressed -- no, I don't -- I wish THEY
were dressed properly, then they wouldn't be so silly
Lawky me
whatever could a-took me
to come out this figure
Someone's made a pretty guy of you -- talk of guys
Well, don't you talk
Look at your own
silly legs; and where's your boots
I never come out like this, I'll take my sacred
I wasn't quite myself last night, I'll own, but not to
dress up like a circus
Blowed if I can make it out
I'm
off home, I am
We shall have the police here directly
Oh, why did you come dressed like that
How else can a queen dress I should like to know
Our Queen wears things like other people
Well, I don't. And I must say
that
you don't seem very glad to see me now I HAVE come. But perhaps it's the
surprise that makes you behave like this. Yet you ought to be used to
surprises. The way you vanished! I shall never forget it. The best magic
I've ever seen. How did you do it
Oh, never mind about that now
You see you've gone and
upset all those people, and I expect they'll fetch the police. And we
don't want to see you collared and put in prison
You can't put queens in prison
Oh, can't you
We cut off a king's head here once
In this miserable room? How frightfully interesting
No, no, not in this room; in history
Oh, in THAT
I thought you'd done it
with your own hands
What a hideous city yours is
and what
horrid, ignorant people. Do you know they actually can't understand a
single word I say
Can you understand them
Of course not; they speak some vulgar, Northern dialect. I can
understand YOU quite well
Well
now you've seen just how horrid it is,
don't you think you might as well go home again
Why, I've seen simply
nothing yet
I wished to be
at your door, and I was. Now I must go and see your King and Queen
Nobody's allowed to
but look here, we'll take
you and show you anything you'd like to see -- anything you CAN see
There's the Museum
there are lots of things
from your country there. If only we could disguise you a little
I know
Mother's old theatre cloak, and there
are a lot of her old hats in the big box
Oh, never mind
The thing is
to get her out before Nurse has finished her forty winks. I should think
she's about got to the thirty-ninth wink by now
Come on then
You know how dangerous it is. Let's make
haste into the Museum. If any of those people you made guys of do fetch
the police, they won't think of looking for you there
Parcels and umbrellas to be left here
I'M not going to be left
so don't you
think it
I'll wait outside with you
Don't sit so near that nasty fountain
I
might get splashed
Now go
Take the poor,
demented thing home and tell your parents she ought to be properly
looked after
If you can't get her to go we must send for the police
But we don't wish to use harsh measures
May I speak to my sister a moment first
Everything you can think of
Kicked up the most frightful shine in there. Said those necklaces and
earrings and things in the glass cases were all hers -- would have them
out of the cases. Tried to break the glass -- she did break one bit!
Everybody in the place has been at her. No good. I only got her out by
telling her that was the place where they cut queens' heads off
Oh, Bobs, what a whacker
You'd have told a whackinger one to get her out. Besides, it wasn't. I
meant MUMMY queens. How do you know they don't cut off mummies' heads to
see how the embalming is done? What I want to say is, can't you get her
to go with you quietly
I'll try
Do come home
the learned gentleman in our house has a much
nicer necklace than anything they've got here. Come and see it
You see
she does understand English
I was talking Babylonian, I think
My good child
what you're talking is
not Babylonian, but nonsense. You just go home at once, and tell your
parents exactly what has happened
I wish
that all those Babylonian
things would come out to me here -- slowly, so that those dogs and slaves
can see the working of the great Queen's magic
Oh, you ARE a tiresome woman
Theosophy, I suppose
Is she Mrs Besant
YES
I wish we were in your house
Look here
they'll come after you, and they'll find ME.
There'll be a National Cage built for me at Westminster, and I shall
have to work at politics. Why wouldn't you leave the things in their
places
What a temper you have, haven't you
I wish
all the things were back in their places. Will THAT do for you
I can't refuse to give your wishes
but I can Bite. And I
will if this goes on. Now then
Ah, don't
it's dreadful
for us too. Don't YOU desert us. Perhaps she'll wish herself at home
again soon
Not she
Take me to see your City
If we had some money we could take her about in a cab. People wouldn't
notice her so much then. But we haven't
Sell this
They'd only think we'd stolen it
and put us in
prison
All roads lead to prison with you, it seems
The learned gentleman
Look here
will you buy this for a pound
Oh
It's my very own
it was given to me to sell
I'll lend you a pound
with pleasure; and
I'll take care of the ring for you. Who did you say gave it to you
We call her
the Queen of Babylon
Is it a game
It'll be a pretty game if I don't get the money to pay for cabs for
her
I sometimes think
that I am becoming insane, or
that
Or that I am; but I'm not, and you're not, and she's not
Does she SAY that she's the Queen of Babylon
Yes
This thought-transference is more far-reaching than I imagined
I suppose I have unconsciously influenced HER, too. I never
thought my Babylonish studies would bear fruit like this. Horrible!
There are more things in heaven and earth
Yes
heaps more. And the pound is the thing _I_ want
more than anything on earth
This thought-transference
It's undoubtedly a Babylonian
ring -- or it seems so to me. But perhaps I have hypnotized myself. I will
see a doctor the moment I have corrected the last proofs of my book
Yes, do
and thank you so very much
But how badly you keep your slaves. How wretched and poor and neglected
they seem
They aren't slaves; they're working-people
You'll have a revolt of your slaves if you're not careful
Oh, no
you see they have votes -- that makes them safe not
to revolt. It makes all the difference. Father told me so
What is this vote
Is it a charm? What do they do
with it
I don't know
it's just a vote, that's all!
They don't do anything particular with it
I see
a sort of plaything. Well, I wish that all
these slaves may have in their hands this moment their fill of their
favourite meat and drink
Makes a difference, doesn't it
That's the best wish you've had yet
Out you gets
I wants my tea
You pay me my fare
We'll take another cab
Give me change for a
sovereign, if you please
Come on
How ugly their clothes are
They'd be
rather fine men, some of them, if they were dressed decently, especially
the ones with the beautiful long, curved noses. I wish they were dressed
like the Babylonians of my court
I say
it's only fancy of course -- something wrong with my eyes -- but you chaps
do look so rum
Rum
Look at YOU. You in a sash! My hat! And your
hair's gone black and you've got a beard. It's my belief we've been
poisoned. You do look a jackape
Old Levinstein don't look so bad. But how was it DONE -- that's what I
want to know. How was it done? Is it conjuring, or what
I think it is chust a ver
all along Bishopsgate I haf seen the gommon people have their
hants full of food -- GOOT food. Oh yes, without doubt a very bad tream
Then I'm dreaming too, Sir
I see my feet in beastly sandals as
plain as plain
All that goot food wasted
I only wish
I only wish we knew who'd done it
Scandalous! Shameful! Ought to be put down by law. Give her in charge.
Fetch the police
What is it
They sound like caged lions -- lions by the
thousand. What is it that they say
They say "Police
I knew they would sooner or
later. And I don't blame them, mind you
I wish my guards were here
I'm mad
dat's what it is -- mad
It's a judgement on you, Rosy
I always said you
were too hard in that matter of Flowerdew. It's a judgement, and I'm in
it too
Kill them
Kill the dogs
It IS all a dream
It isn't
It isn't. Oh, my good gracious! those
foreign brutes are killing everybody. Henry Hirsh is down now, and
Prentice is cut in two -- oh, Lord! and Huth, and there goes Lionel Cohen
with his head off, and Guy Nickalls has lost his head now. A dream? I
wish to goodness it was all a dream
Thank Goodness that's over
She won't come back, will she
No
She's thousands of years ago. But we spent a whole
precious pound on her. It'll take all our pocket-money for ages to pay
that back
Not if it was ALL a dream
The wish said ALL a dream, you know, Panther; you cut up and ask if he
lent you anything
I beg your pardon
I'm so sorry to
trouble you, but DID you lend me a pound today
No
But it's
extraordinary that you should ask me, for I dozed for a few moments this
afternoon, a thing I very rarely do, and I dreamed quite distinctly that
you brought me a ring that you said belonged to the Queen of Babylon,
and that I lent you a sovereign and that you left one of the Queen's
rings here. The ring was a magnificent specimen
I wish it
hadn't been a dream
I hope you're satisfied
Quite, thanks
I AM so sorry, poor, dear Squirrel
and you were looking
so lovely. I'll get a wet rag. Bobs, go and hold your hand under the
hot-water tap. It's what ballet girls do with their legs when they hurt
them. I saw it in a book
What book
I suppose you don't feel like going anywhere through the Amulet
Egypt
I want to see the pussy cats
Not me -- too hot
It's about as much as I can stand
here -- let alone Egypt
Let's go to the North Pole
I don't suppose the Amulet was ever there -- and we might get our fingers
frost-bitten so that we could never hold it up to get home again. No
thanks
I say
let's get the Psammead and ask its advice. It will
like us asking, even if we don't take it
You see a doctor, old boy
all that about
thought-transference is just simply twaddle. You've been over-working.
Take a holiday. Go to Dieppe
I'd rather go to Babylon
I wish you'd go to Atlantis some time, while we're about it, so as to
give me some tips for my Nineteenth Century article when you come home
I wish I could
Goodbye.
Take care of yourself
Hullo, Kiddies
been in the wars
It's all right
I say, what was that Atlantic place you
wanted him to go to? We couldn't help hearing you talk
You talk so VERY loud, you see
Atlantis
the lost Atlantis, garden of the
Hesperides. Great continent -- disappeared in the sea. You can read about
it in Plato
Thank you
Were there any Amulets there
Hundreds, I should think. So HE'S been talking to you
Yes, often. He's very kind to us. We like him awfully
Well, what he wants is a holiday; you persuade him to take one. What
he wants is a change of scene. You see, his head is crusted so thickly
inside with knowledge about Egypt and Assyria and things that you can't
hammer anything into it unless you keep hard at it all day long for days
and days. And I haven't time. But you live in the house. You can hammer
almost incessantly. Just try your hands, will you? Right. So long
I should like to have them to play with
All right. LET'S go to Atlantis
Let's go to Atlantis and take the learned gentleman with us
he'll think it's a dream, afterwards, but it'll certainly be a
change of scene
Why not take him to nice Egypt
Too hot
Or Babylon, where he wants to go
I've had enough of Babylon
at least for the present.
And so have the others. I don't know why
but somehow we have. Squirrel, let's take
off these beastly bandages and get into flannels. We can't go in our
unders
He WISHED to go to Atlantis, so he's got to go some time; and he might
as well go with us
Will you come
to Atlantis with us
To know that you are dreaming shows that the dream is nearly at an
end
or perhaps it's only a game, like "How many
miles to Babylon
Thank you very much, but I have
only a quarter of an hour to spare
It doesn't take any time
time is only a mode of thought,
you know, and you've got to go some time, so why not with us
Very well
To just outside Atlantis
You owl
it's an island. Outside an island's all water
I won't go. I WON'T
Wonderful
wonderful
I say, Mr -- what's your name
He means
that we never can remember your name. I know
it's Mr De Something
When I was your age I was called Jimmy
Would you
mind? I should feel more at home in a dream like this if I -- Anything
that made me seem more like one of you
Thank you -- Jimmy
Jimmy, DEAR
What are you doing here
Do you come to
bless or to curse
To bless, of course
I'm sorry if it annoys you, but
we're here by magic. We come from the land of the sun-rising
I see
I didn't
notice at first, but of course I hope you're a good omen. It's needed.
And this
your slave, I presume
Not at all
he's a very great man. A sage, don't they
call it? And we want to see all your beautiful city, and your temples
and things, and then we shall go back, and he will tell his friend, and
his friend will write a book about it
What
is a book
A record -- something written, or
or engraved
Like this
The stone is of our country
and that which is engraved on
it, it is like our writing, but I cannot read it. What is the name of
your sage
Ji-jimmy
Ji-jimmy. Will you land
And shall I
lead you to the Kings
Look here
does your King hate strangers
Our Kings are ten
and the Royal line, unbroken
from Poseidon, the father of us all, has the noble tradition to do
honour to strangers if they come in peace
Then lead on, please
though I SHOULD like to see all
over your beautiful ship, and sail about in her
That shall be later
just now we're afraid of a
storm -- do you notice that odd rumbling
That's nothing, master
it's the
pilchards coming in, that's all
Too loud
Do talk to him -- Jimmy
you can find out all
sorts of things for your friend's book
Please excuse me
If I talk I shall wake up; and
besides, I can't understand what he says
It's just like Babylon
only everything's perfectly
different
It's a great comfort the ten Kings have been properly brought up -- to be
kind to strangers
Yes
no deepest dungeons here
Mammoths
Children of the Sun God and their High Priest -- come to bless the City
Are all these houses real gold
The temples are covered with gold, of course
but the houses are only oricalchum. It's not quite so expensive
Oricalchum -- oricalchum
Don't be frightened
we can get home in a minute, just
by holding up the charm. Would you rather go back now? We could easily
come some other day without you
Oh, no, no
let the dream go on. Please, please
do
The High Ji-jimmy is perhaps weary with his magic journey
and
we are yet very far from the Great Temple, where today the Kings make
sacrifice
You would like a bath
It's customary, you know, before entering
the Presence. We have baths for men, women, horses, and cattle. The High
Class Baths are here. Our Father Poseidon gave us a spring of hot water
and one of cold
It feels very splendid
At least, of course, it's not gold; it's or -- what's its name
Hand over that towel
Jimmy
don't you think all
this seems much more like NOW than Babylon or Egypt --? Oh, I forgot,
you've never been there
I know a little of those nations, however
and I quite agree
with you. A most discerning remark -- my dear
this
city certainly seems to indicate a far higher level of civilization than
the Egyptian or Babylonish, and
Follow me
Now, boys, get out of the way
Ginger
they're playing conkers, just like the kids
in Kentish Town Road
Behold the Temples of Poseidon
It is not lawful
for me to enter. I will await your return here
We are the children of the Sun
and
our High Priest, at least that's what the Captain calls him. We have a
different name for him at home
What is his name
Ji-jimmy
And we have come to speak with your Kings in the Temple of
Poseidon -- does that word sound right
Quite
It's very odd I can understand
what you say to them, but not what they say to you
The Queen of Babylon found that too
it's part of the
magic
Oh, what a dream
Enter
enter, Children of the Sun, with your High Ji-jimmy
The ten Kings are even now choosing the bull. It is not lawful for me
to behold
Got him
Now we shan't see anything more
Yes we can, there's an outside balcony
I don't like sacrifices
It's a special sacrifice
usually it's only done on the
justice days every five years and six years alternately. And then they
drink the cup of wine with some of the bull's blood in it, and swear
to judge truly. And they wear the sacred blue robe, and put out all the
Temple fires. But this today is because the City's so upset by the odd
noises from the sea, and the god inside the big mountain speaking with
his thunder-voice. But all that's happened so often before. If anything
could make ME uneasy it wouldn't be THAT
What would it be
It would be the Lemmings
Who are they -- enemies
They're a sort of rat; and every year they come swimming over from the
country that no man knows, and stay here awhile, and then swim away.
This year they haven't come. You know rats won't stay on a ship that's
going to be wrecked. If anything horrible were going to happen to us,
it's my belief those Lemmings would know; and that may be why they've
fought shy of us
What do you call this country
Atlantis
Then I advise you to get on to the highest ground you can find. I
remember hearing something about a flood here. Look here, you
let's get home. The prospect's too wet for my
whiskers
Where's the learned gentleman
There he is -- below
Your
High Ji-jimmy is with the Kings
The sea -- the sea
Be calm
Our town is strong against the thunders of the sea and of the
sky
I want to go home
We can't go without HIM
Jimmy
Jimmy
To the hills
Oh
the town -- the poor people
It's all thousands of years ago, really
I want to go home
Oh, yes, yes
I MUST see the end of the dream
Come home
THAT'S the LAST, I know it is! That's
the last -- over there
Oh, come
I WILL SEE the end of the dream
You'll never see anything else if you do
Oh, JIMMY
I'll NEVER bring you out again
You'll never have the chance if you don't go soon
I WILL see the end of the dream
Oh, this is horrible
Come home, come home
The end of the dream
Hold up the Amulet
Now
say the word
What a ghastly dream
Oh, you're here, my -- er -- dears. Can
I do anything for you
You've hurt your hand
let me bind it up
Never again
will I go into the Past with
a grown-up person! I will say for you four, you do do as you're told
We didn't even find the Amulet
Of course you didn't; it wasn't there. Only the stone it was made of
was there. It fell on to a ship miles away that managed to escape and
got to Egypt. _I_ could have told you that
I wish you had
Why didn't you
You never asked me
I'm not the sort
of chap to go shoving my oar in where it's not wanted
Mr Ji-jimmy's friend will have something worth having to put in his
article now
Not he
The learned Ji-jimmy will think it's a
dream, and it's ten to one he never tells the other chap a word about it
at all
You
would hardly believe
that anyone COULD have such a detailed
vision
I'm not; I'm only thinking
I'll tell you when I've thought it all out
If it's about the Amulet I don't want to hear it
Nobody asked you to
and I haven't finished my
inside thinking about it yet. Let's go to Kew in the meantime
I'd rather go in a steamer
That's right
BE funny. I would
Well, he was, rather
I wouldn't think, Squirrel, if it hurts you so
Oh, shut up
or else talk about Kew
I want to see the palms there
to see if they're
anything like the ones on the island where we united the Cook and the
Burglar by the Reverend Half-Curate
Do you remember
Have you forgotten
My hat
we have had some times
We have that
Don't let's have any more
That's what I was thinking about
Oh, dear
Whatever is the matter
You leave me be
I ain't doing nothing to you
But what is it
Has someone been hurting you
What's that to you
YOU'RE all right
Come away
She's a nasty,
rude little kid
Oh, no
She's only dreadfully unhappy. What is it
Oh, YOU'RE all right
YOU ain't agoin
Can't we take you home
Where does your
mother live
She don't live nowheres -- she's dead -- so now
Oh, don't cry so, dear, don't, don't
Tell Anthea all about
it; Anthea'll help you. There, there, dear, don't cry
It's horrible
her father was a
carpenter and he was a steady man, and never touched a drop except on a
Saturday, and he came up to London for work, and there wasn't any, and
then he died; and her name is Imogen, and she's nine come next
November. And now her mother's dead, and she's to stay tonight with
Mrs Shrobsall -- that's a landlady that's been kind -- and tomorrow the
Relieving Officer is coming for her, and she's going into the Union;
that means the Workhouse. It's too terrible. What can we do
Let's ask the learned gentleman
It really does seem rather rough luck
because I've
often heard about rich people who wanted children most awfully -- though I
know _I_ never should -- but they do. There must be somebody who'd be glad
to have her
Gipsies are awfully fond of children
They're
always stealing them. Perhaps they'd have her
She's quite a nice little girl really
she was only
rude at first because we looked jolly and happy, and she wasn't. You
understand that, don't you
Yes
I
understand that very well. As you say, there must be some home where she
would be welcome
What is it
Is it a cat or a organ-monkey, or
what
Yes, I wish we could find a home where they would be glad to have her
At least let's keep together
All hold hands -- quick
Is it a game
Another dream, dear me
Oh, my
Where are we
In Britain
But when
About the year fifty-five before the year you reckon time from
Is there anything else you want to know
I've been here
before -- it's very little changed
Yes, but why here
Your inconsiderate friend
wished to find some
home where they would be glad to have that unattractive and immature
female human being whom you have picked up -- gracious knows how. In
Megatherium days properly brought-up children didn't talk to shabby
strangers in parks. Your thoughtless friend wanted a place where someone
would be glad to have this undesirable stranger. And now here you are
I see we are
But why HERE? Why NOW
You don't suppose anyone would want a child like that in YOUR times -- in
YOUR towns
You've got
your country into such a mess that there's no room for half your
children -- and no one to want them
That's not our doing, you know
And bringing me here without any waterproof or anything
when everyone knows how damp and foggy
Ancient Britain was
Here, take my coat
There
Now if it does begin to look like rain,
I can cover you up in a minute. Now what are we to do
Can't the organ monkey talk neither! I thought it was only parrots
Do
I don't care what you do
It's only a dream
something is
sure to happen if we can prevent ourselves from waking up
Let's go and see
It's only a dream
if you don't go with the tide of a dream -- if you resist -- you wake up,
you know
It's like the old Egyptian town
None of those little girls is her own little girl
Look
ere -- I don't suppose there's
e'er a public nearer than Epping, do you, Miss
Imogen
Imogen
Oh, it IS mother -- it IS
It IS my Imogen
Oh it is! And she wasn't eaten by wolves. She's come back to me. Tell
me, my darling, how did you escape? Where have you been? Who has fed and
clothed you
I don't know nothink
Poor child
the terror of the
wolves has turned her brain
But you know ME
nough
What is it? What do they say
You wished to come where someone wanted the child
The child says this is her mother
And the mother
You can see
But is she really? Her child, I mean
Who knows
but each one fills the empty place in
the other's heart. It is enough
Oh
this is a good dream. I wish the
child might stay in the dream
If only all the children that no one wants
Welcome, all
I am the Queen, and my child tells me that
you have befriended her; and this I well believe, looking on your faces.
Your garb is strange, but faces I can read. The child is bewitched, I
see that well, but in this she speaks truth. Is it not so
I think you children have some wonderful influence on me
I never dreamed such dreams before I knew you
Well
we've made it all right for Imogen, and had a jolly
good time. I vote we get home again before the fighting begins
What fighting
Why, Julius Caesar, you little goat
Don't
you see that if this is the year fifty-five, Julius Caesar may happen at
any moment
I thought you liked Caesar
So I do -- in the history. But that's different from being killed by his
soldiers
If we saw Caesar we might persuade him not to
YOU persuade CAESAR
I only wish
we could see Caesar some time
Back
Since when has
Caesar feared children and students
It is a dream, O Caesar
A dream
What is a dream
This
Not it
it's a sort of magic. We come out of another time
and another place
And we want to ask you not to trouble about conquering Britain
it's a poor little place, not worth bothering about
Are you from Britain
Your clothes are uncouth,
but well woven, and your hair is short as the hair of Roman citizens,
not long like the hair of barbarians, yet such I deem you to be
We're
not
we're not barbarians at all. We
come from the country where the sun never sets, and we've read about
you in books; and our country's full of fine things -- St Paul's, and the
Tower of London, and Madame Tussaud's Exhibition, and
Don't talk nonsense
You three elder children may go where you will within the camp. Few
children are privileged to see the camp of Caesar. The student and the
smaller girl-child will remain here with me
And do they fight with swords
Yes, swords and guns and cannons
You fire them
and they go bang, and people fall down
dead
But what are guns like
But Robert has a toy one in his pocket
I shall cause guns to be made
and you will be detained
till I know whether you have spoken the truth. I had just decided that
Britain was not worth the bother of invading. But what you tell me
decides me that it is very much worth while
But it's all nonsense
Britain is just a savage sort of
island -- all fogs and trees and big rivers. But the people are kind. We
know a little girl there named Imogen. And it's no use your making
guns because you can't fire them without gunpowder, and that won't be
invented for hundreds of years, and we don't know how to make it, and
we can't tell you. Do go straight home, dear Caesar, and let poor little
Britain alone
But this other girl-child says
All Jane's been telling you is what it's going to be
hundreds and hundreds of years from now
The little one is a prophetess, eh
Rather young for the business, isn't she
You can call her a prophetess if you like
but what
Anthea says is true
Anthea
That's a Greek name
Very likely
I say, I do wish you'd give up
this idea of conquering Britain. It's not worth while, really it isn't
On the contrary
what you've told me has decided me to
go, if it's only to find out what Britain is really like. Guards, detain
these children
Quick
before the guards begin detaining. We had enough
of that in Babylon
Marcus
And if you hadn't told Caesar all that about how things are now, he'd
never have invaded Britain
Oh, nonsense
it was all settled hundreds
of years ago
I don't know
Jam, please. This about time being only
a thingummy of thought is very confusing. If everything happens at the
same time
It CAN'T
the present's the present and the
past's the past
Not always
When we were in the Past the present was the future. Now then
I should have liked to see more of the camp
Yes, we didn't get much for our money -- but Imogen is happy, that's one
thing
We left her happy in the Past. I've often seen
about people being happy in the Past, in poetry books. I see what it
means now
It's not a bad idea
being left in the Past
Hullo
what's up now? Dinner'll be
cold before you've got enough salt-water for a bath
Go away
I hate you! I hate everybody
_I_ didn't know
Nobody ever does know anything
I didn't know you were waxy. I thought you'd just hurt your fingers
with the tap again like you did last week
Oh -- fingers
Here, drop it, Panther
You haven't been
having a row or anything
No
Wash your horrid hands, for goodness' sake, if that's
what you came for, or go
Dry up, do
There
Now, what's up
Promise you won't laugh
I don't feel laughish myself
Well, then
it's
Mother
What's the matter with Mother
She was all right in her letter this morning
Yes; but I want her so
You're not the only one
Oh, yes
I know. We all want her all the time. But I
want her now most dreadfully, awfully much. I never wanted anything so
much. That Imogen child -- the way the ancient British Queen cuddled her
up! And Imogen wasn't me, and the Queen was Mother. And then her letter
this morning! And about The Lamb liking the salt bathing! And she bathed
him in this very bath the night before she went away -- oh, oh, oh
Cheer up
You know my inside thinking that I was doing?
Well, that was partly about Mother. We'll soon get her back. If you'll
chuck it, like a sensible kid, and wash your face, I'll tell you about
it. That's right. You let me get to the tap. Can't you stop crying?
Shall I put the door-key down your back
That's for noses
and I'm not a kid any more than you
are
Look here
I've been thinking. We've only
just PLAYED with the Amulet so far. We've got to work it now -- WORK it
for all it's worth. And it isn't only Mother either. There's Father out
there all among the fighting. I don't howl about it, but I THINK -- Oh,
bother the soap
There now
now I shall have to wash my face
You'd have had to do that anyway
Now, my
idea's this. You know missionaries
Yes
Well, they always take the savages beads and brandy, and stays, and
hats, and braces, and really useful things -- things the savages haven't
got, and never heard about. And the savages love them for their
kind generousness, and give them pearls, and shells, and ivory, and
cassowaries. And that's the way
Wait a sec
I can't hear what you're saying.
Shells and
Shells, and things like that. The great thing is to get people to love
you by being generous. And that's what we've got to do. Next time we go
into the Past we'll regularly fit out the expedition. You remember how
the Babylonian Queen froze on to that pocket-book? Well, we'll take
things like that. And offer them in exchange for a sight of the Amulet
A sight of it is not much good
No, silly. But, don't you see, when we've seen it we shall know where
it is, and we can go and take it in the night when everybody is asleep
It wouldn't be stealing, would it
because
it will be such an awfully long time ago when we do it. Oh, there's that
bell again
I'm not allowed to play in this game
Of course I COULD find
out in a minute where the thing was, only I mayn't. But I may go so far
as to own that your idea of taking things with you isn't a bad one. And
I shouldn't show them all at once. Take small things and conceal them
craftily about your persons
I don't suppose
they ever saw a self-fitting paraffin one
We can't take all this rubbish
We must
just each choose one thing
Look here, let's each be blindfolded and reach out, and the first thing
you touch you stick to
It's not much
I don't believe Ancient Egyptians wore
ties
Never mind
I believe it's luckier not to really choose.
In the stories it's always the thing the wood-cutter's son picks up in
the forest, and almost throws away because he thinks it's no good, that
turns out to be the magic thing in the end; or else someone's lost it,
and he is rewarded with the hand of the King's daughter in marriage
I don't want any hands in marriage, thank you
Nor yet me
It's always the end of the adventures when
it comes to the marriage hands
ARE we ready
It IS Egypt we're going to, isn't it?-- nice Egypt
I
won't go anywhere I don't know about -- like that dreadful big-wavy
burning-mountain city
I say
I'm rather sick of kings. And people notice you so in palaces. Besides
the Amulet's sure to be in a Temple. Let's just go among the common
people, and try to work ourselves up by degrees. We might get taken on
as Temple assistants
Like beadles
or vergers. They must have splendid
chances of stealing the Temple treasures
Righto
Comrades and fellow workers
Comrades and fellow
workers, how long are we to endure the tyranny of our masters, who live
in idleness and luxury on the fruit of our toil? They only give us a
bare subsistence wage, and they live on the fat of the land. We labour
all our lives to keep them in wanton luxury. Let us make an end of it
How are you going to do it
You look out
or you'll get yourself into trouble
I've heard almost every single word of that
in
Hyde Park last Sunday
Let us strike for more bread and onions and beer, and a longer mid-day
rest
You are tired, you are hungry, you are
thirsty. You are poor, your wives and children are pining for food. The
barns of the rich are full to bursting with the corn we want, the corn
our labour has grown. To the granaries
To the granaries
To Pharaoh! To the King! Let's present a
petition to the King! He will listen to the voice of the oppressed
What's the trouble now
Oh, the working-men -- discontented as usual
Listen
to them. Anyone would think it mattered whether they had a little more
or less to eat. Dregs of society
Scum
And I've heard THAT before, too
Guards
The Guards! The Guards
The Guards! Pharaoh's Guards
So THAT riot's over
that's
a blessing! And did you notice the Captain of the Guard? What a very
handsome man he was, to be sure
We're well out of THAT
Yes
but I do wish the poor men hadn't been driven back
before they could get to the King. He might have done something for
them
Not if he was the one in the Bible he wouldn't
He had a
hard heart
Ah, that was the Moses one
The Joseph
one was quite different. I should like to see Pharaoh's house. I wonder
whether it's like the Egyptian Court in the Crystal Palace
I thought we decided to try to get taken on in a Temple
Yes, but we've got to know someone first. Couldn't we make friends
with a Temple doorkeeper -- we might give him the padlock or something. I
wonder which are temples and which are palaces
Did you wish to seek out the Temple of Amen Ra
or the Temple of Mut, or the Temple of Khonsu
It doesn't matter which Temple
Tell me your mission
I am a divine father of the
Temple of Amen Ra and perhaps I can help you
Well
we've come from the great Empire on which the sun
never sets
I thought somehow that you'd come from some odd, out-of-the-way spot
And we've seen a good many palaces. We thought we should like to see a
Temple, for a change
Have you brought gifts to the Temple
We HAVE got some gifts
You see
there's magic mixed up in it. So we can't tell you everything. But we
don't want to give our gifts for nothing
Beware how you insult the god
I also can
do magic. I can make a waxen image of you, and I can say words which, as
the wax image melts before the fire, will make you dwindle away and at
last perish miserably
Pooh
that's nothing. _I_ can make FIRE itself
I should jolly well like to see you do it
Well, you shall
nothing easier. Just stand close round
me
Do you need no preparation -- no fasting, no incantations
The incantation's quite short
and as
for fasting, it's not needed in MY sort of magic. Union Jack, Printing
Press, Gunpowder, Rule Britannia! Come, Fire, at the end of this little
stick
See
Here, take it into your hand
No, thank you
Can you do that
again
Yes
Then come with me to the great double house of Pharaoh. He loves good
magic, and he will raise you to honour and glory. There's no need of
secrets between initiates
The fact is,
I am out of favour at present owing to a little matter of failure of
prophecy. I told him a beautiful princess would be sent to him from
Syria, and, lo! a woman thirty years old arrived. But she WAS a
beautiful woman not so long ago. Time is only a mode of thought, you
know
So you know that too, do you
It is part of the mystery of all magic, is it not
Now if I bring you to Pharaoh the little unpleasantness I spoke of will
be forgotten. And I will ask Pharaoh, the Great House, Son of the Sun,
and Lord of the South and North, to decree that you shall lodge in the
Temple. Then you can have a good look round, and teach me your magic.
And I will teach you mine
The poor Egyptians haven't improved so very much in their building
since the first time we came to Egypt
Amulets
to keep off the evil eye
I don't think much of your "nice Egypt
it's simply not a patch on Babylon
Ah, you wait till you see the palace
The guard-chamber, the store-houses, the queen's house
We are fortunate
Pharaoh is even now in
the Court of Honour. Now, don't forget to be overcome with respect and
admiration. It won't do any harm if you fall flat on your faces. And
whatever you do, don't speak until you're spoken to
There used to be that rule in our country
when my
father was a little boy
Raise them
that they may speak to me
Who are these strangers
And
what do you mean, Rekh-mara, by daring to come into my presence while
your innocence is not established
Oh, great King
you are the very image of
Ra, and the likeness of his son Horus in every respect. You know the
thoughts of the hearts of the gods and of men, and you have divined
that these strangers are the children of the children of the vile and
conquered Kings of the Empire where the sun never sets. They know a
magic not known to the Egyptians. And they come with gifts in their
hands as tribute to Pharaoh, in whose heart is the wisdom of the gods,
and on his lips their truth
That is all very well
but where are the gifts
But it's not
tribute all the same
England doesn't pay tribute
Deliver them to the Keeper of
the Treasury
A small tribute, truly, but strange, and not without worth. And the
magic, O Rekh-mara
These unworthy sons of a conquered nation
Nothing of the kind
of a vile and conquered nation, can make fire to spring from dry
wood -- in the sight of all
I should jolly well like to see them do it
Do more magic
He cannot do any more magic
because of the voice of the free people who are shouting
for bread and onions and beer and a long mid-day rest. If the people had
what they wanted, he could do more
A rude-spoken girl
But give the dogs what they want
Let them have their rest and their
extra rations. There are plenty of slaves to work
You will be the idol of the people
the
Temple of Amen will not contain their offerings
Oh, greatest of all, before whom sun and moon and stars bow down
am I pardoned? Is my innocence made plain
As plain as it ever will be, I daresay
Get
along with you. You are pardoned. Go in peace
And what
Seize it
A very curious monkey. It will be
a nice little novelty for my wild beast collection
Oh, DO be careful
At least keep it dry! Keep it in its
sacred house
It's a magic creature
it's simply priceless
You've no right to take it away
It's a
shame, a barefaced robbery, that's what it is
Take the sacred house of the beast from them
and imprison
all. Tonight after supper it may be our pleasure to see more magic.
Guard them well, and do not torture them -- yet
Oh, dear
I knew exactly what it
would be! Oh, I wish you hadn't
Shut up, silly
You know you WOULD come to Egypt. It was
your own idea entirely. Shut up. It'll be all right
I thought we should play ball with queens
and have no
end of larks! And now everything's going to be perfectly horrid
Now we can get home all right
And leave the Psammead
Wait a sec. I've got an idea
Stop that row
or
Look here
it's very dull for you isn't it? Just
doing nothing but guard us. Wouldn't you like to see some magic? We're
not too proud to do it for you. Wouldn't you like to see it
I don't mind if I do
Well then, you get us that monkey of ours that was taken away, and
we'll show you
How do I know you're not making game of me
Shouldn't wonder if you only wanted to get the creature so as to set it
on me. I daresay its teeth and claws are poisonous
Well, look here
You see we've got nothing with us? You just shut the door,
and open it again in five minutes, and we'll have got a magic -- oh, I
don't know -- a magic flower in a pot for you
If you can do that you can do anything
Well
I really am
We can do much more wonderful things than that -- oh, ever so much
if we only have our monkey. And here's twopence
for yourself
What's this
I say
I suppose it'll be
all right about those workmen? The King won't go back on what he said
about them just because he's angry with us
Oh, no
you see, he's rather afraid of magic. He'll
keep to his word right enough
Then THAT'S all right
Ah, DO get us the monkey, and then you'll see some lovely magic.
Do -- there's a nice, kind soldier
I don't know where they've put your precious monkey, but if I can get
another chap to take on my duty here I'll see what I can do
Do you mean
that we're going off without even TRYING
for the other half of the Amulet
I really think we'd better
Of course the
other half of the Amulet's here somewhere or our half wouldn't have
brought us here. I do wish we could find it. It is a pity we don't
know any REAL magic. Then we could find out. I do wonder where it
is -- exactly
Don't torture them -- YET
If the worst comes to the worst
we must just bunk, and
leave the Psammead. I believe it can take care of itself well enough.
They won't kill it or hurt it when they find it can speak and give
wishes. They'll build it a temple, I shouldn't wonder
I couldn't bear to go without it
and Pharaoh said
"After supper", that won't be just yet. And the soldier WAS curious. I'm
sure we're all right for the present
Suppose he hasn't got the Psammead
Here's its fancy overcoat
Now
what would you like us to do? Anything you'd like us
to get for you
Any little trick you like
If you can get a strange
flower blooming in an earthenware vase you can get anything, I suppose
I just wish I'd got two men's loads of jewels from the King's
treasury. That's what I've always wished for
Any other little trick
Shall we become
invisible? Vanish
Yes, if you like
but not through the door, you
don't
No! no
That's magic, if you like
Someone's holding her
We
must go back
Oh, I do wish you hadn't
It WAS so interesting.
The priest had come in and he was kicking the soldier, and telling
him he'd done it now, and they must take the jewels and flee for their
lives
And did they
I don't know. You interfered
I SHOULD have
liked to see the last of it
I really have got it
Got what
Why, don't you see? It's really not any good our going into the Past
looking for that Amulet. The Past's as full of different times as -- as
the sea is of sand. We're simply bound to hit upon the wrong time. We
might spend our lives looking for the Amulet and never see a sight of
it. Why, it's the end of September already. It's like looking for a
needle in
A bottle of hay -- I know
but if we don't go on
doing that, what ARE we to do
That's just it
Oh, BOTHER
It's always meal-times just when you come to anything interesting
And a nice interesting handful YOU'D be, Master Cyril
if I wasn't to bring your meals up to time. Don't you begin grumbling
now, fear you get something to grumble AT
I wasn't grumbling
but it does always
happen like that
You deserve to HAVE something happen
Slave, slave,
slave for you day and night, and never a word of thanks
Why, you do everything beautifully
It's the first time any of you's troubled to say so, anyhow
What's the use of SAYING
We EAT our meals fast
enough, and almost always two helps. THAT ought to show you
Ah
you're a man all over, Master Robert. There was
my poor Green, all the years he lived with me I never could get more
out of him than "It's all right!" when I asked him if he'd fancied his
dinner. And yet, when he lay a-dying, his last words to me was, "Maria,
you was always a good cook
And so you are
I know exactly how she feels. Now, look here! Let's do a penance to
show we're sorry we didn't think about telling her before what nice
cooking she does, and what a dear she is
Penances are silly
Not if the penance is something to please someone else. I didn't mean
old peas and hair shirts and sleeping on the stones. I mean we'll make
her a sorry-present
Look here! I vote Cyril doesn't
tell us his idea until we've done something for old Nurse. It's worse
for us than him
because he knows what it is and we
don't. Do you all agree
With all our loves to shew
   We like the thigs to eat
There
It'll be hours before the glue's dry. Now, Squirrel, fire ahead
Well, then
What I mean to say is this
Well
WHAT is it that you mean to say
It's like this
Like WHAT
How can I tell you if you will all keep on interrupting
Look here
what I really mean is -- we can remember now what
we did when we went to look for the Amulet. And if we'd found it we
should remember that too
Rather
Only, you see we haven't
But in the future we shall have
Shall we, though
Yes -- unless we've been made fools of by the Psammead. So then, where we
want to go to is where we shall remember about where we did find it
I see
_I_ don't
Say it again, Squirrel,
and very slowly
If
we go into the future -- after
we've found the Amulet
But we've got to find it first
Hush
There will be a future
there will be a time AFTER we've found
it. Let's go into THAT time -- and then we shall remember HOW we found it.
And then we can go back and do the finding really
I see
Yes
Oh, Squirrel, how clever of you
But will the Amulet work both ways
It ought to
if time's only a thingummy of whatsitsname.
Anyway we might try
Let's put on our best things, then
You know what people
say about progress and the world growing better and brighter. I expect
people will be awfully smart in the future
All right
we should have to wash anyway, I'm all thick
with glue
We want to go into the future and see the Amulet after we've found it
Oh, glorious
Here it is
Yes
here it is. But we can't get it out
No
no -- but we remember where we got it, and we can
Oh, DO we
do YOU remember where we got
it
No
I don't exactly, now I come to think of it
But WHY can't we
Oh, _I_ don't know
some silly old
enchanted rule I suppose. I wish people would teach you magic at school
like they do sums -- or instead of. It would be some use having an Amulet
then
I wonder how far we are in the future
Let's go back and try the Past again
Perhaps the Museum people could tell us how we got it
Oh, they've got a new uniform, how pretty
From the collection of
THAT'S not much good
thank you
How is it you're not at school
Not
expelled for long I hope
We're not expelled at all
Well, I shouldn't do it again, if I were you
Thank you for showing us the label
It's like a lovely picture
I expect they light those in the evening
I do wish we
lived in the future
I know
They're not worried; that's what it
is
What's the matter
I'm expelled from school
Do you mind telling us what you'd done
I -- I tore up a sheet of paper and threw it about in the playground
You won't talk to me any more now you know that
Was that all
It's about enough
and I'm expelled for the whole
day
I don't quite understand
Why, whoever on earth are you
We're strangers from a far country
In our country it's
not a crime to leave a bit of paper about
It is here
If grown-ups do it they're fined. When we
do it we're expelled for the whole day
Well, but
that just means a day's holiday
You MUST come from a long way off
A holiday's
when you all have play and treats and jolliness, all of you together.
On your expelled days no one'll speak to you. Everyone sees you're an
Expelleder or you'd be in school
Suppose you were ill
Nobody is -- hardly. If they are, of course they wear the badge, and
everyone is kind to you. I know a boy that stole his sister's illness
badge and wore it when he was expelled for a day. HE got expelled for a
week for that. It must be awful not to go to school for a week
Do you LIKE school, then
Of course I do. It's the loveliest place there is. I chose railways for
my special subject this year, there are such splendid models and things,
and now I shall be all behind because of that torn-up paper
You choose your own subject
Yes, of course. Where DID you come from? Don't you know ANYTHING
No
so you'd better tell us
Well, on Midsummer Day school breaks up and everything's decorated with
flowers, and you choose your special subject for next year. Of course
you have to stick to it for a year at least. Then there are all your
other subjects, of course, reading, and painting, and the rules of
Citizenship
Good gracious
Look here
it's nearly four. The
expelledness only lasts till then. Come home with me. Mother will tell
you all about everything
Will your mother like you taking home strange children
I don't understand
Come
on
What ever's this for?-- lunatics
No! It's for the children, of course
Don't tell me that in
your country there are no children's rooms
There are nurseries
but the furniture's all
cornery and hard, like other rooms
How shocking
you must be VERY much behind the times in
your country! Why, the children are more than half of the people; it's
not much to have one room where they can have a good time and not hurt
themselves
But there's no fireplace
Hot-air pipes, of course
Why, how could you have a
fire in a nursery? A child might get burned
In our country
more than 3,000 children are
burned to death every year. Father told me
once when I'd been playing with fire
What a frightful place you must live in
What's all the
furniture padded for
Why, you couldn't have little tots of two or three running about in
rooms where the things were hard and sharp! They might hurt themselves
But does everyone have rooms like this, poor people and all
There's a room like this wherever there's a child, of course
How refreshingly ignorant you are!-- no, I don't mean ignorant,
my dear. Of course, you're awfully well up in ancient History. But I see
you haven't done your Duties of Citizenship Course yet
But beggars, and people like that
and tramps and
people who haven't any homes
People who haven't any homes
I really DON'T
understand what you're talking about
It's all different in our country
You must have been reading very old-fashioned books
Why, all that was in the dark ages! My husband can tell you more about
it than I can. He took Ancient History as one of his special subjects
I haven't seen any working people
Why, we're all working people
at least my husband's a
carpenter
Good gracious
but you're a lady
Ah
that quaint old word! Well, my husband WILL enjoy
a talk with you. In the dark ages everyone was allowed to have a smoky
chimney, and those nasty horses all over the streets, and all sorts of
rubbish thrown into the Thames. And, of course, the sufferings of the
people will hardly bear thinking of. It's very learned of you to know it
all. Did you make Ancient History your special subject
Not exactly
What is the Duties of
Citizenship Course about
Don't you REALLY know? Aren't you pretending -- just for fun? Really not?
Well, that course teaches you how to be a good citizen, what you must
do and what you mayn't do, so as to do your full share of the work of
making your town a beautiful and happy place for people to live in.
There's a quite simple little thing they teach the tiny children. How
does it go...?

   'I must not steal and I must learn,
   Nothing is mine that I do not earn.
   I must try in work and play
   To make things beautiful every day.
   I must be kind to everyone,
   And never let cruel things be done.
   I must be brave, and I must try
   When I am hurt never to cry,
   And always laugh as much as I can,
   And be glad that I'm going to be a man
   To work for my living and help the rest
   And never do less than my very best
That's very easy
_I_ could remember that
That's only the very beginning, of course
there are
heaps more rhymes. There's the one beginning --

   'I must not litter the beautiful street
   With bits of paper or things to eat;
   I must not pick the public flowers,
   They are not MINE, but they are OURS
And "things to eat" reminds me -- are you hungry? Wells, run and get a
tray of nice things
Why do you call him "Wells
It's after the great reformer -- surely you've heard of HIM? He lived in
the dark ages, and he saw that what you ought to do is to find out what
you want and then try to get it. Up to then people had always tried
to tinker up what they'd got. We've got a great many of the things he
thought of. Then "Wells" means springs of clear water. It's a nice name,
don't you think
Now, Wells
run off or you'll be late and not meet
your Daddy
Look here
would you like to come to OUR
country, and see what it's like? It wouldn't take you a minute
What a splendid conjuring trick
Go through
Oh, what a HORRIBLE trick
What a hateful, dark, ugly
place
Oh, look at their faces, their horrible faces
What's the
matter with them all
They're poor people, that's all
But it's NOT all! They're ill, they're unhappy, they're wicked! Oh,
do stop it, there's dear children. It's very, very clever. Some sort of
magic-lantern trick, I suppose, like I've read of. But DO stop it. Oh!
their poor, tired, miserable, wicked faces
I'm glad we went
I'll never throw paper about again as long as I live
Mother always told us not to
I would like to take up the Duties of Citizenship for a special
subject
I wonder if Father could put me through it. I
shall ask him when he comes home
If we'd found the Amulet, Father could be home NOW
and
Mother and The Lamb
Let's go into the future AGAIN
Perhaps we
could remember if it wasn't such an awful way off
The future, where the Amulet is, not
so far away
Dreams, dreams
old age is full of them
You've been in dreams with us before now
don't you
remember
I do, indeed
The most wonderful dreams I ever had had you in them
Where
did you get that thing in your hand
If you weren't just a dream
But where did we get it
Ah, you never would tell me that
You always had your little
mysteries. You dear children! What a difference you made to that old
Bloomsbury house! I wish I could dream you oftener. Now you're grown up
you're not like you used to be
Grown up
There you are
Shall we grow up like THAT
How perfectly horrid
If we're ever like that, we sha'n't know it's horrid, I expect
You see, you get used to yourself
while you're changing. It's -- it's being so sudden makes it seem so
frightful now
Don't
let me undream you just yet
Do you remember WHEN we gave you that Amulet
You know, or you would if you weren't a dream, that it was on the 3rd
December, 1905. I shall never forget THAT day
Thank you
oh, thank you very much
You've got a new room
and
what a lovely garden
Yes
I'm too old now to care even about being near the
Museum. This is a beautiful place. Do you know -- I can hardly believe
you're just a dream, you do look so exactly real. Do you know
I can say it to YOU, though, of course, if I said it to
anyone that wasn't a dream they'd call me mad; there was something about
that Amulet you gave me -- something very mysterious
There was that
Ah, I don't mean your pretty little childish mysteries about where you
got it. But about the thing itself. First, the wonderful dreams I used
to have, after you'd shown me the first half of it! Why, my book on
Atlantis, that I did, was the beginning of my fame and my fortune, too.
And I got it all out of a dream! And then, "Britain at the Time of the
Roman Invasion"-- that was only a pamphlet, but it explained a lot of
things people hadn't understood
Yes
it would
they can't, though they've tried. Theories, they call
them, but they're more like -- I don't know -- more like memories. I KNOW
I'm right about the secret rites of the Temple of Amen
I'm so glad you're rich
You weren't, you know, at
Fitzroy Street
Indeed I wasn't
but I am now. This beautiful house and this
lovely garden -- I dig in it sometimes; you remember, you used to tell
me to take more exercise? Well, I feel I owe it all to you -- and the
Amulet
I'm so glad
THAT didn't feel like a dream
It isn't exactly a dream
it's all part of the
Amulet -- it's a sort of extra special, real dream, dear Jimmy
Ah
when you call me that, I know I'm dreaming. My little
sister -- I dream of her sometimes. But it's not real like this. Do you
remember the day I dreamed you brought me the Babylonish ring
We remember it all
Did you leave Fitzroy Street because
you were too rich for it
Oh, no
You know I should never have done such
a thing as that. Of course, I left when your old Nurse died and -- what's
the matter
Old Nurse DEAD
Oh, NO
Yes, yes, it's the common lot. It's a long time ago now
Come
oh, come home! She may be dead before we get there,
and then we can't give it to her. Oh, come
Ah, don't let the dream end now
It must
When it comes to people dying
good-bye! I'm so glad
you're rich and famous and happy
DO come
Don't die
oh, don't
Dear, ducky,
darling old Nurse, don't die
Lord, love you
I'm not agoin
Nothing. Only don't
I'm as well as ever I was in my life
What nonsense about
dying! You've been a sitting too long in the dusk, that's what it is.
Regular blind man's holiday. Leave go of me, while I light the gas
We do love you so
and we've made you a picture to show you how we love
you. Get it out, Squirrel
The glue's not dry yet
look out
What a beauty
Well, I never! And your pictures and
the beautiful writing and all. Well, I always did say your hearts was in
the right place, if a bit careless at times. Well! I never did! I don't
know as I was ever pleased better in my life
How is it we can remember all about the future, NOW
How is it we
can remember what we saw in the future, and yet, when we WERE in the
future, we could not remember the bit of the future that was past then,
the time of finding the Amulet
Why, what a silly question
of course you cannot
remember what hasn't happened yet
But the FUTURE hasn't happened yet
and we remember
that all right
Oh, that isn't what's happened, my good child
that's prophetic vision. And you remember dreams, don't
you? So why not visions? You never do seem to understand the simplest
thing
Good-night, bless your loving heart
if only you
don't catch your deather-cold
Blue and red
make purple
Not always they don't
it has to be crimson lake
and Prussian blue. If you mix Vermilion and Indigo you get the most
loathsome slate colour
Sepia's the nastiest colour in the box, I think
Sepia
is made out of beastly cuttlefish
Purple's made out of a fish, as well as out of red and blue
Tyrian purple was, I know
Out of lobsters
They're red when they're boiled,
and blue when they aren't. If you mixed live and dead lobsters you'd get
Tyrian purple
_I_ shouldn't like to mix anything with a live lobster
Well, there aren't any other red and blue fish
you'd have
to
I'd rather not have the purple
The Tyrian purple wasn't that colour when it came out of the fish, nor
yet afterwards, it wasn't
it was scarlet really, and
Roman Emperors wore it. And it wasn't any nice colour while the fish had
it. It was a yellowish-white liquid of a creamy consistency
How do you know
I read it
Where
In print
You think everything's true if it's printed
but it isn't. Father said so. Quite a lot of lies get printed,
especially in newspapers
You see, as it happens
it wasn't a newspaper, it was in a book
How sweet Chinese white is
I don't believe it
Have a suck yourself
I don't mean about the Chinese white. I mean about the cream fish
turning purple and
Oh
I'm tired of painting.
Let's go somewhere by Amulet. I say let's let IT choose
Take us somewhere
anywhere you
like in the Past -- but somewhere where you are
Whatever are you doing
Setting lines for the dye shell-fish
How did you
get here
A sort of magic
What is this place
Tyre, of course
Now we shall know about your precious cream-jug fish
But we never SAID come to Tyre
The Amulet heard us talking, I expect. I think it's MOST obliging of
it
And the Amulet's here too
We ought to be able to find
it in a little ship like this. I wonder which of them's got it
Oh -- look, look
Then we've found it
Oh do let's take it and go home
Easy to say "take it
he looks very strong
It's odd
I do believe I've seen that man
somewhere before
He's rather like our learned gentleman
but I'll tell
you who he's much more like
We can go back in a minute if anything
nasty happens
I see
that you are from a far country. Since
you have honoured my boat by appearing on it, you must stay here
till morning. Then I will lead you to one of our great ones. He loves
strangers from far lands
Let's go home
all the frogs are drowning NOW. I
think the people here are cruel
It's just like eel-pots and lobster-pots
the baskets
only open from outside -- I vote we stay
That's Tyre over there
That's part of Tyre, too
it's where the great
merchants have their pleasure-houses and gardens and farms
Look, look
what a lovely little ship
Insolent young barbarian
Do you call the ships of Tyre
LITTLE? None greater sail the seas. That ship has been on a three years'
voyage. She is known in all the great trading ports from here to the
Tin Islands. She comes back rich and glorious. Her very anchor is of
silver
I'm sure we beg your pardon
In our country we
say "little" for a pet name. Your wife might call you her dear little
husband, you know
I should like to catch her at it
It's a rich trade
For cloth ONCE dipped, second-best
glass, and the rough images our young artists carve for practice, the
barbarian King in Tessos lets us work the silver mines. We get so much
silver there that we leave them our iron anchors and come back with
silver ones
How splendid
Do go on. What's cloth once dipped
You MUST be barbarians from the outer darkness
All wealthy nations know that our finest stuffs are twice
dyed -- dibaptha. They're only for the robes of kings and priests and
princes
What do the rich merchants wear
in the
pleasure-houses
They wear the dibaptha. OUR merchants ARE princes
Oh, don't be cross, we do so like hearing about things. We want to know
ALL about the dyeing
Oh, you do, do you
So that's what you're here for?
Well, you won't get the secrets of the dye trade out of ME
Yes
this is the dye-fish. It's a sort of murex -- and
there's another kind that they catch at Sidon and then, of course,
there's the kind that's used for the dibaptha. But that's quite
different. It's
Hold your tongue
That's jolly good
I should think so
The pearl-divers of Persia are
not more skilful. Why, we've got a fresh-water spring that comes out at
the bottom of the sea. Our divers dive down and bring up the fresh water
in skin bottles! Can your barbarian divers do as much
I suppose not
Now
I'm fit to be seen. Come along
Where to
the man I told you
of, who loves barbarians
I have known these children in another land
You know my
powers of magic. It was my magic that brought these barbarians to your
boat. And you know how they will profit you. I read your thoughts. Let
me come with you and see the end of them, and then I will work the spell
I promised you in return for the little experience you have so kindly
given me on your boat
So it was YOUR doing
I might have guessed it. Well, come
on
Nonsense -- as long as he's with us we've got some chance of the Amulet.
We can always fly if anything goes wrong
Trust me
I wish we could
You feel
that I want your Amulet. That makes you
distrust me
Yes
But you also, you want my Amulet, and I am trusting you
There's something in that
We have the two halves of the Amulet
but not yet
the pin that joined them. Our only chance of getting that is to remain
together. Once part these two halves and they may never be found in the
same time and place. Be wise. Our interests are the same
My brother Pheles has just come back from Tarshish. He's at his garden
house -- unless he's hunting wild boar in the marshes. He gets frightfully
bored on shore
Ah
he's a true-born Phoenician. "Tyre, Tyre for
ever! Oh, Tyre rules the waves!" as the old song says. I'll go at once,
and show him my young barbarians
I should
They are very rum, aren't they? What
frightful clothes, and what a lot of them! Observe the covering of their
feet. Hideous indeed
Why is this like Rosherville
Because it's the place to spend a happy day
It's jolly decent of the skipper to have brought us to such a ripping
place
Do you know
this feels more real than anything else
we've seen? It's like a holiday in the country at home
I should like to spend a week here
and donkey ride every
day
Yes
my steward will pay you the price. But I shall not pay
at that high rate for the Egyptian dog
This
is a pretty kettle of fish
What is
Our present position
Our seafaring friend
has sold us all for slaves
To distract my mind from my sorrows
I do like being a slave
Be quiet, or all is lost
It's me, Rekh-mara, the Priest of Amen
The man
who brought us has gone to sea again, and he has taken my Amulet from me
by force, and I know no magic to get it back. Is there magic for that in
the Amulet you bear
We can go after him
but he might take OURS
as well; or he might be angry with us for following him
I'll see to THAT
Hide your Amulet
well
Well
well, I never did
Master
we are here by the magic of the sacred
Amulet that hangs round your neck
I never did
Well, well
What port is the ship bound for
Are you a navigator
Then
I don't mind telling you that we're bound for the
Tin Isles. Tyre alone knows where the Tin Isles are. It is a splendid
secret we keep from all the world. It is as great a thing to us as your
magic to you
The King sent you, didn't he
Yes
he bade me set sail with half a score brave
gentlemen and this crew. You shall go with us, and see many wonders
What are we going to do now
Wait till he lands in the Tin Isles
then we can
get the barbarians to help us. We will attack him by night and tear the
sacred Amulet from his accursed heathen neck
When shall we get to the Tin Isles
Oh -- six months, perhaps, or a year
A year of THIS
Look here, we can shorten that year. Jane, out with the Amulet! Wish
that we were where the Amulet will be when the ship is twenty miles from
the Tin Island. That'll give us time to mature our plans
Ha
the charm has brought you back! I have prayed to it
daily these nine months -- and now you are here? Have you no magic that
can help
What is your need
I need a great wave that shall whelm away the foreign ship that follows
us. A month ago it lay in wait for us, by the pillars of the gods, and
it follows, follows, to find out the secret of Tyre -- the place of the
Tin Islands. If I could steer by night I could escape them yet, but
tonight there will be no stars
My magic will not serve you here
My magic will not bring up great waves, but I can show
you how to steer without stars
I will give it to you
in return for that charm about
your neck
Be comforted
our time will come
She is close upon us
And we
are close to the harbour
Good friends and gentlemen
who are bound with me in this
brave venture by our King's command, the false, foreign ship is close
on our heels. If we land, they land, and only the gods know whether they
might not beat us in fight, and themselves survive to carry back the
tale of Tyre's secret island to enrich their own miserable land. Shall
this be
Never
Give me back my Amulet
This is no time for charms and mummeries
We've lived like
men, and we'll die like gentlemen for the honour and glory of Tyre, our
splendid city. "Tyre, Tyre for ever! It's Tyre that rules the waves." I
steer her straight for the Dragon rocks, and we go down for our city,
as brave men should. The creeping cowards who follow shall go down as
slaves -- and slaves they shall be to us -- when we live again. Tyre, Tyre
for ever
Quick, the Amulet
Tyre, Tyre for ever! It's Tyre that rules the waves
And so we've lost the other half of the Amulet again
Nonsense, pooh
That wasn't the other half. It was
the same half that you've got -- the one that wasn't crushed and lost
But how could it be the same
Well, not exactly, of course. The one you've got is a good many years
older, but at any rate it's not the other one. What did you say when you
wished
I forget
I don't
You said, "Take us where YOU are"-- and it
did, so you see it was the same half
I see
But you mark my words
you'll have trouble with
that Priest yet
Why, he was quite friendly
All the same you'd better beware of the Reverend Rekh-mara
Oh, I'm sick of the Amulet
we shall never get it
Oh yes we shall
Don't you remember December 3rd
Jinks
I'd forgotten that
I don't believe it
and I don't feel at all well
If I were you
I should not go out into the Past
again till that date. You'll find it safer not to go where you're likely
to meet that Egyptian any more just at present
Of course we'll do as you say
though there's
something about his face that I really do like
Still, you don't want to run after him, I suppose
You wait till the 3rd, and then see what happens
devil in
the dark
And I hope every boy in this room has in his heart
the seeds of courage and heroism and self-sacrifice, and I wish that
every one of you may grow up to be noble and brave and unselfish, worthy
citizens of this great Empire for whom our soldiers have freely given
their lives
I daresay we are already because of
our beautiful natures. It's only boys that have to be made brave by
magic
It's in Piccadilly
not so very far down on the left
from the Circus. There's big pillars outside, something like Carter's
seed place in Holborn, as used to be Day and Martin's blacking when I
was a gell. And something like Euston Station, only not so big
Yes, I know
I don't know, I'm sure
I always shop
at the Stores
If only the Babylonians could have seen THIS conjuring
It takes the shine out of their old conjurer, doesn't it
Hush
A jolly good trick
and worked under my own eyes,
in my own hall. I'll find out how that's done
Ladies and gentlemen
this
is a trick I have never before performed. The empty seat, third from
the end, second row, gallery -- you will now find occupied by an Ancient
Egyptian, warranted genuine
it was that sudden it made her flesh creep
Come out of this crowd
I must talk with you
apart
Oh, no
I did so want to see the Mascot Moth, and the
Ventriloquist
How did you get here
How did you get to Egypt and to Tyre
Come, let
us leave this crowd
There's no help for it, I suppose
Confederates
Now they go round to the
back and take part in the next scene
I wish we did
Confederate yourself
Come on
He won't begin till we're all here.
And shut the door, can't you
My interests and yours are one
Very interesting
and it'll be a jolly sight more
interesting if you keep following us about in a decent country with no
more clothes on than THAT
Peace
What is this country? and what is this time
The country's England
and the time's about 6,000 years
later than YOUR time
The Amulet, then
gives the power
to move to and fro in time as well as in space
That's about it
Look here, it'll be tea-time
directly. What are we to do with you
You have one-half of the Amulet, I the other
All
that is now needed is the pin to join them
Don't you think it
The half you've got is the same half
as the one we've got
But the same thing cannot be in the same place and the same time, and
yet be not one, but twain
See, here is my half
Where is yours
Black magic
I thought
he'd have a try for OURS, so I got the ropes out of the
box-room, so as to be ready
Loosen these bonds
before I blast you with
the seven secret curses of Amen-Ra
We shouldn't be likely to loose them AFTER
Oh, don't quarrel
Look here, he has just as
much right to the thing as we have. This
this has got his in it as well as being
ours. Let's go shares
Let me go
Now, look here
if you make a row we can just open that
window and call the police -- the guards, you know -- and tell them you've
been trying to rob us. NOW will you shut up and listen to reason
I suppose so
Look here
we want to be friends.
We want to help you. Let's make a treaty. Let's join together to get the
Amulet -- the whole one, I mean. And then it shall belong to you as much
as to us, and we shall all get our hearts' desire
Fair words
grow no onions
WE say, "Butter no parsnips
But don't you see we WANT
to be fair? Only we want to bind you in the chains of honour and upright
dealing
Will you deal fairly by us
I will
By the sacred, secret name that is written
under the Altar of Amen-Ra, I will deal fairly by you. Will you, too,
take the oath of honourable partnership
No
We don't
swear in England, except in police courts, where the guards are,
you know, and you don't want to go there. But when we SAY we'll do a
thing -- it's the same as an oath to us -- we do it. You trust us, and we'll
trust you
Now
I am stronger than you and my oath is void. I have
sworn by nothing, and my oath is nothing likewise. For there IS no
secret, sacred name under the altar of Amen-Ra
Oh, yes there is
You don't know everything, though you ARE a Divine Father of the Temple
of Amen
There IS a secret, sacred name beneath the altar of
Amen-Ra. Shall I call on that name
No, no
No
Don't let's have any calling names
Besides
I was only going to say that though there isn't any
name under
There IS
Well, even if there WASN'T, I will be bound by the wordless oath
of your strangely upright land, and having said that I will be your
friend -- I will be it
Then that's all right
and there's the tea-bell.
What are you going to do with your distinguished partner? He can't go
down to tea like that, you know
You see we can't do anything till the 3rd of December
that's when we are to find the whole charm. What can we do with
Rekh-mara till then
Box-room
and smuggle up his meals. It will be
rather fun
Like a fleeing Cavalier concealed from exasperated Roundheads
Yes
Good riddance
The best thing we can do
is to go through the half
Amulet straight away, get the whole Amulet, and come back
I don't know
Would that be quite fair? Perhaps he
isn't really a base deceiver. Perhaps something's happened to him
Happened
not it! Besides, what COULD happen
I don't know
Perhaps burglars came in the night, and
accidentally killed him, and took away the -- all that was mortal of him,
you know -- to avoid discovery
Or perhaps
they hid the -- all that was mortal, in one of
those big trunks in the box-room. SHALL WE GO BACK AND LOOK
No, no
Let's go and tell the Psammead and see what
it says
No
let's ask the learned gentleman. If anything has
happened to Rekh-mara a gentleman's advice would be more useful than a
Psammead's. And the learned gentleman'll only think it's a dream, like
he always does
Hush
please, hush! or the
dream will go. I am learning... Oh, what have I not learned in the last
hour
In the grey dawn
I left my hiding-place, and
finding myself among these treasures from my own country, I remained. I
feel more at home here somehow
Of course I know it's a dream
but, oh, ye gods! what a dream! By jove
Call not upon the gods
lest ye raise greater ones
than ye can control. Already
he and I
are as brothers, and his welfare is dear to me as my own
He has told me
Have you told him
all about the Amulet
No
Then tell him now. He is very learned. Perhaps he can tell us what to
do
Dear Jimmy
don't worry about it. We are sure to
find it today, somehow
Yes
and perhaps, with it, Death
It's to bring us our hearts' desire
Who knows
what things undreamed-of and infinitely
desirable lie beyond the dark gates
Oh, DON'T
Why not
go back into the Past? At a moment when the
Amulet is unwatched. Wish to be with it, and that it shall be under your
hand
Come
Come NOW
May -- may I come
It's only a
dream, you know
Come, and welcome, oh brother
NO
You weren't with us in Atlantis
or you'd know better
than to let him come
Dear Jimmy
please don't ask to come. We'll go and be
back again before you have time to know that we're gone
And he, too
We must keep together
since there is but one perfect
Amulet to which I and these children have equal claims
Where are we
And when
This is some shrine near the beginnings of belief
Take the Amulet and come away. It is cold here in the
morning of the world
It's HERE
I've got it
Come away
I wish we could see more of this Temple
Come away
there is death all about, and strong
magic. Listen
They are coming
Quick, quick, the Amulet
What a long time you've been rubbing your eyes
don't
you see we've got back
Miss Anthea -- Miss Jane
Oh, bother
You just go on with the
dream for a sec, Mr Jimmy, we'll be back directly. Nurse'll come up if
we don't. SHE wouldn't think Rekh-mara was a dream
Your Pa and Ma's come home. "Reach London 11.15. Prepare rooms as
directed in letter", and signed in their two names
Oh, hooray! hooray! hooray
Oh
then it WAS true. And we HAVE got
our hearts' desire
But I don't understand about the letter
I haven't
HAD no letter
OH
I wonder whether it was one of
those... they came that night -- you know, when we were playing "devil
in the dark"-- and I put them in the hat-stand drawer, behind the
clothes-brushes and
and here
they are
Mercy me
I declare if it's not too bad of You, Miss
Jane. I shall have a nice to-do getting things straight for your Pa and
Ma
Oh, never mind, Nurse
isn't it just too
lovely for anything
We'll come and help you
There's just something upstairs
we've got to settle up, and then we'll all come and help you
Get along with you
Nice
help YOU'D be. I know you. And it's ten o'clock now
It doesn't matter how cross and sandy it is though
it
ought to be there at the final council
It'll give the learned gentleman fits, I expect
when he
sees it
The dream is growing more and more wonderful
I have dreamed this
beast before
Now
Jane has got the half Amulet and I've got the
whole. Show up, Jane
And THAT'S all right
Yes
and we've got our hearts' desire. Father and Mother
and The Lamb are coming home today
But what about me
What IS your heart's desire
Great and deep learning
A learning greater and deeper than that of any man of my
land and my time. But learning too great is useless. If I go back to my
own land and my own age, who will believe my tales of what I have seen
in the future? Let me stay here, be the great knower of all that has
been, in that our time, so living to me, so old to you, about which your
learned men speculate unceasingly, and often, HE tells me, vainly
If I were you
I should ask the Amulet about that.
It's a dangerous thing, trying to live in a time that's not your own.
You can't breathe an air that's thousands of centuries ahead of your
lungs without feeling the effects of it, sooner or later. Prepare the
mystic circle and consult the Amulet
Oh, WHAT a dream
Dear children, if
you love me -- and I think you do, in dreams and out of them -- prepare the
mystic circle and consult the Amulet
Ur Hekau
Setcheh
I speak
What is it that you would hear
What are we to do about Rekh-mara
Shall he go back through the Amulet to his own time, or
No one can pass through the Amulet now
to any land or any time. Only when it was imperfect could such
things be. But men may pass through the perfect charm to the perfect
union, which is not of time or space
Would you be so very kind
as to speak so
that we can understand you? The Psammead said something about Rekh-mara
not being able to live here, and if he can't get back
Nobody can continue to live in a land and in a time not appointed
But a soul may live, if in that
other time and land there be found a soul so akin to it as to offer it
refuge, in the body of that land and time, that thus they two may be one
soul in one body
Oh, but
dear Jimmy's soul isn't at all like Rekh-mara's. I'm certain it
isn't. I don't want to be rude, but it ISN'T, you know. Dear Jimmy's
soul is as good as gold, and
Nothing that is not good can pass beneath the double arch of my perfect
Amulet
If both are willing, say the word of Power,
and let the two souls become one for ever and ever more
Shall I
Yes
Yes
Ur Hekau Setcheh
A stands for Amen
what he was a priest of
Hush
Come
Come
Oh, the horrid thing
THAT
WAS the evil in the soul of Rekh-mara
Then Rekh-mara's HIM now
All that was good in Rekh-mara
HE ought to have his heart's desire, too
HIS heart's desire
is the perfect Amulet you hold
in your hand. Yes -- and has been ever since he first saw the broken half
of it
We've got ours
Yes
your parents are coming home. And what's to become of ME? I shall
be found out, and made a show of, and degraded in every possible way. I
KNOW they'll make me go into Parliament -- hateful place -- all mud and no
sand. That beautiful Baalbec temple in the desert! Plenty of good sand
there, and no politics! I wish I were there, safe in the Past -- that I
do
I wish you were
Well
I suppose it's happy. The only
thing it ever did really care for was SAND
My dear children
I must have fallen
asleep. I've had the most extraordinary dream
I hope it was a nice one
Yes.... I feel a new man after it. Absolutely a new man
It's THEM
Here
Here -- it's yours -- your very
own -- a present from us, because you're Rekh-mara as well as... I mean,
because you're such a dear
Bless me
bless me! What a
treasure! The dear children! It must be their affection that has given
me these luminous apercus. I seem to see so many things now -- things I
never saw before! The dear children! The dear, dear children
</text>
