<text>
I wish you to pay attention to what I am going to say to you. The colts
who live here are very good colts, but they are cart-horse colts, and
of course they have not learned manners. You have been well-bred
and well-born; your father has a great name in these parts, and
your grandfather won the cup two years at the Newmarket races; your
grandmother had the sweetest temper of any horse I ever knew, and I
think you have never seen me kick or bite. I hope you will grow up
gentle and good, and never learn bad ways; do your work with a good
will, lift your feet up well when you trot, and never bite or kick even
in play
Well, old Pet, and how is your little
Darkie
Bad boy
bad boy! to chase the colts. This is not the first
time, nor the second, but it shall be the last. There -- take your money
and go home; I shall not want you on my farm again
There
are the hounds
They have found a hare
and if they come this way we
shall see the hunt
yo! yo, o, o! yo! yo, o, o
They have lost the scent
perhaps the hare will
get off
What hare
Oh! I don't know what hare; likely enough it may be one of our own
hares out of the woods; any hare they can find will do for the dogs and
men to run after
yo! yo, o, o
Now we shall see the hare
His neck is broke
And serve him right, too
Well, no
you must not say that; but though I am an old
horse, and have seen and heard a great deal, I never yet could make out
why men are so fond of this sport; they often hurt themselves, often
spoil good horses, and tear up the fields, and all for a hare or a fox,
or a stag, that they could get more easily some other way; but we are
only horses, and don't know
When he has been well broken in he will do very well
but
there are a great many kinds of men; there are good thoughtful men like
our master, that any horse may be proud to serve; and there are bad,
cruel men, who never ought to have a horse or dog to call their own.
Besides, there are a great many foolish men, vain, ignorant, and
careless, who never trouble themselves to think; these spoil more horses
than all, just for want of sense; they don't mean it, but they do it for
all that. I hope you will fall into good hands; but a horse never knows
who may buy him, or who may drive him; it is all a chance for us; but
still I say, do your best wherever it is, and keep up your good name
Good-by, Darkie; be a good horse, and always do your best
How
do you do? What is your name
My name is Merrylegs. I am very handsome; I carry the young
ladies on my back, and sometimes I take our mistress out in the low
chair. They think a great deal of me, and so does James. Are you going
to live next door to me in the box
Yes
Well, then
I hope you are good-tempered; I do not like any
one next door who bites
So it is you who have turned me out of my box; it is a very strange
thing for a colt like you to come and turn a lady out of her own home
I beg your pardon
I have turned no one out; the man who
brought me put me here, and I had nothing to do with it; and as to my
being a colt, I am turned four years old and am a grown-up horse. I
never had words yet with horse or mare, and it is my wish to live at
peace
Well
we shall see. Of course, I do not want to have words
with a young thing like you
The thing is this
Ginger has a bad habit of biting
and snapping; that is why they call her Ginger, and when she was in the
loose box she used to snap very much. One day she bit James in the arm
and made it bleed, and so Miss Flora and Miss Jessie, who are very fond
of me, were afraid to come into the stable. They used to bring me nice
things to eat, an apple or a carrot, or a piece of bread, but after
Ginger stood in that box they dared not come, and I missed them very
much. I hope they will now come again, if you do not bite or snap
Well, I don't think she does find pleasure
it is
just a bad habit; she says no one was ever kind to her, and why should
she not bite? Of course, it is a very bad habit; but I am sure, if all
she says be true, she must have been very ill-used before she came here.
John does all he can to please her, and James does all he can, and our
master never uses a whip if a horse acts right; so I think she might be
good-tempered here. You see
I am twelve
years old; I know a great deal, and I can tell you there is not a better
place for a horse all round the country than this. John is the best
groom that ever was; he has been here fourteen years; and you never saw
such a kind boy as James is; so that it is all Ginger's own fault that
she did not stay in that box
John
I meant to have tried the new horse this morning, but I have other
business. You may as well take him around after breakfast; go by the
common and the Highwood, and back by the watermill and the river; that
will show his paces
I will, sir
Ho, ho! my boy
you would like to follow
the hounds, I think
Well, John, how does he go
First-rate, sir
he is as fleet as a deer, and has a
fine spirit too; but the lightest touch of the rein will guide him. Down
at the end of the common we met one of those traveling carts hung all
over with baskets, rugs, and such like; you know, sir, many horses will
not pass those carts quietly; he just took a good look at it, and then
went on as quiet and pleasant as could be. They were shooting rabbits
near the Highwood, and a gun went off close by; he pulled up a little
and looked, but did not stir a step to right or left. I just held the
rein steady and did not hurry him, and it's my opinion he has not been
frightened or ill-used while he was young
That's well
I will try him myself to-morrow
Well, my dear
how do you like him
He is exactly what John said
a pleasanter creature I
never wish to mount. What shall we call him
Would you like Ebony
he is as black as ebony
No, not Ebony
Will you call him Blackbird, like your uncle's old horse
No, he is far handsomer than old Blackbird ever was
Yes
he is really quite a beauty, and he has such a sweet,
good-tempered face, and such a fine, intelligent eye -- what do you say to
calling him Black Beauty
Black Beauty -- why, yes, I think that is a very good name. If you like
it shall be his name
If it was not for bringing back the past, I should have named him
Rob Roy, for I never saw two horses more alike
That's no wonder
didn't you know that Farmer Grey's old
Duchess was the mother of them both
Steady, steady, my boy
wait a bit, and we will have a
good swing, and soon get the tickle out of your feet
Well
if I had had your bringing up I might have had as
good a temper as you, but now I don't believe I ever shall
Why not
Because it has been all so different with me
I never
had any one, horse or man, that was kind to me, or that I cared to
please, for in the first place I was taken from my mother as soon as I
was weaned, and put with a lot of other young colts; none of them cared
for me, and I cared for none of them. There was no kind master like
yours to look after me, and talk to me, and bring me nice things to eat.
The man that had the care of us never gave me a kind word in my life.
I do not mean that he ill-used me, but he did not care for us one
bit further than to see that we had plenty to eat, and shelter in the
winter. A footpath ran through our field, and very often the great boys
passing through would fling stones to make us gallop. I was never hit,
but one fine young colt was badly cut in the face, and I should think
it would be a scar for life. We did not care for them, but of course
it made us more wild, and we settled it in our minds that boys were our
enemies. We had very good fun in the free meadows, galloping up and down
and chasing each other round and round the field; then standing still
under the shade of the trees. But when it came to breaking in, that was
a bad time for me; several men came to catch me, and when at last they
closed me in at one corner of the field, one caught me by the forelock,
another caught me by the nose and held it so tight I could hardly draw
my breath; then another took my under jaw in his hard hand and wrenched
my mouth open, and so by force they got on the halter and the bar into
my mouth; then one dragged me along by the halter, another flogging
behind, and this was the first experience I had of men's kindness; it
was all force. They did not give me a chance to know what they wanted.
I was high bred and had a great deal of spirit, and was very wild, no
doubt, and gave them, I dare say, plenty of trouble, but then it was
dreadful to be shut up in a stall day after day instead of having my
liberty, and I fretted and pined and wanted to get loose. You know
yourself it's bad enough when you have a kind master and plenty of
coaxing, but there was nothing of that sort for me.

"There was one -- the old master, Mr. Ryder -- who, I think, could soon have
brought me round, and could have done anything with me; but he had given
up all the hard part of the trade to his son and to another experienced
man, and he only came at times to oversee. His son was a strong, tall,
bold man; they called him Samson, and he used to boast that he had never
found a horse that could throw him. There was no gentleness in him, as
there was in his father, but only hardness, a hard voice, a hard eye, a
hard hand; and I felt from the first that what he wanted was to wear all
the spirit out of me, and just make me into a quiet, humble, obedient
piece of horseflesh. 'Horseflesh'! Yes, that is all that he thought
about
If I did not do exactly what he wanted he would get put out, and make
me run round with that long rein in the training field till he had
tired me out. I think he drank a good deal, and I am quite sure that the
oftener he drank the worse it was for me. One day he had worked me hard
in every way he could, and when I lay down I was tired, and miserable,
and angry; it all seemed so hard. The next morning he came for me early,
and ran me round again for a long time. I had scarcely had an hour's
rest, when he came again for me with a saddle and bridle and a new kind
of bit. I could never quite tell how it came about; he had only just
mounted me on the training ground, when something I did put him out
of temper, and he chucked me hard with the rein. The new bit was very
painful, and I reared up suddenly, which angered him still more, and he
began to flog me. I felt my whole spirit set against him, and I began
to kick, and plunge, and rear as I had never done before, and we had a
regular fight; for a long time he stuck to the saddle and punished me
cruelly with his whip and spurs, but my blood was thoroughly up, and I
cared for nothing he could do if only I could get him off. At last after
a terrible struggle I threw him off backward. I heard him fall heavily
on the turf, and without looking behind me, I galloped off to the other
end of the field; there I turned round and saw my persecutor slowly
rising from the ground and going into the stable. I stood under an oak
tree and watched, but no one came to catch me. The time went on, and the
sun was very hot; the flies swarmed round me and settled on my bleeding
flanks where the spurs had dug in. I felt hungry, for I had not eaten
since the early morning, but there was not enough grass in that meadow
for a goose to live on. I wanted to lie down and rest, but with the
saddle strapped tightly on there was no comfort, and there was not a
drop of water to drink. The afternoon wore on, and the sun got low. I
saw the other colts led in, and I knew they were having a good feed.

"At last, just as the sun went down, I saw the old master come out with
a sieve in his hand. He was a very fine old gentleman with quite white
hair, but his voice was what I should know him by among a thousand. It
was not high, nor yet low, but full, and clear, and kind, and when
he gave orders it was so steady and decided that every one knew, both
horses and men, that he expected to be obeyed. He came quietly along,
now and then shaking the oats about that he had in the sieve, and
speaking cheerfully and gently to me: 'Come along, lassie, come along,
lassie; come along, come along.' I stood still and let him come up; he
held the oats to me, and I began to eat without fear; his voice took all
my fear away. He stood by, patting and stroking me while I was eating,
and seeing the clots of blood on my side he seemed very vexed. 'Poor
lassie! it was a bad business, a bad business;' then he quietly took the
rein and led me to the stable; just at the door stood Samson. I laid my
ears back and snapped at him. 'Stand back,' said the master, 'and keep
out of her way; you've done a bad day's work for this filly.' He growled
out something about a vicious brute. 'Hark ye,' said the father, 'a
bad-tempered man will never make a good-tempered horse. You've not
learned your trade yet, Samson.' Then he led me into my box, took off
the saddle and bridle with his own hands, and tied me up; then he called
for a pail of warm water and a sponge, took off his coat, and while the
stable-man held the pail, he sponged my sides a good while, so tenderly
that I was sure he knew how sore and bruised they were. 'Whoa! my pretty
one,' he said, 'stand still, stand still.' His very voice did me good,
and the bathing was very comfortable. The skin was so broken at the
corners of my mouth that I could not eat the hay, the stalks hurt me. He
looked closely at it, shook his head, and told the man to fetch a good
bran mash and put some meal into it. How good that mash was! and so soft
and healing to my mouth. He stood by all the time I was eating, stroking
me and talking to the man. 'If a high-mettled creature like this,'
said he, 'can't be broken by fair means, she will never be good for
anything.'

"After that he often came to see me, and when my mouth was healed the
other breaker, Job, they called him, went on training me; he was steady
and thoughtful, and I soon learned what he wanted
After my breaking in
I was bought by a dealer to match
another chestnut horse. For some weeks he drove us together, and then we
were sold to a fashionable gentleman, and were sent up to London. I had
been driven with a check-rein by the dealer, and I hated it worse
than anything else; but in this place we were reined far tighter, the
coachman and his master thinking we looked more stylish so. We were
often driven about in the park and other fashionable places. You who
never had a check-rein on don't know what it is, but I can tell you it
is dreadful.

"I like to toss my head about and hold it as high as any horse; but
fancy now yourself, if you tossed your head up high and were obliged to
hold it there, and that for hours together, not able to move it at all,
except with a jerk still higher, your neck aching till you did not know
how to bear it. Besides that, to have two bits instead of one -- and mine
was a sharp one, it hurt my tongue and my jaw, and the blood from my
tongue colored the froth that kept flying from my lips as I chafed and
fretted at the bits and rein. It was worst when we had to stand by the
hour waiting for our mistress at some grand party or entertainment, and
if I fretted or stamped with impatience the whip was laid on. It was
enough to drive one mad
Did not your master take any thought for you
No
he only cared to have a stylish turnout, as they
call it; I think he knew very little about horses; he left that to his
coachman, who told him I had an irritable temper! that I had not been
well broken to the check-rein, but I should soon get used to it; but he
was not the man to do it, for when I was in the stable, miserable and
angry, instead of being smoothed and quieted by kindness, I got only a
surly word or a blow. If he had been civil I would have tried to
bear it. I was willing to work, and ready to work hard too; but to be
tormented for nothing but their fancies angered me. What right had they
to make me suffer like that? Besides the soreness in my mouth, and
the pain in my neck, it always made my windpipe feel bad, and if I had
stopped there long I know it would have spoiled my breathing; but I grew
more and more restless and irritable, I could not help it; and I began
to snap and kick when any one came to harness me; for this the groom
beat me, and one day, as they had just buckled us into the carriage,
and were straining my head up with that rein, I began to plunge and
kick with all my might. I soon broke a lot of harness, and kicked myself
clear; so that was an end of that place.

"After this I was sent to Tattersall's to be sold; of course I could not
be warranted free from vice, so nothing was said about that. My handsome
appearance and good paces soon brought a gentleman to bid for me, and I
was bought by another dealer; he tried me in all kinds of ways and with
different bits, and he soon found out what I could not bear. At last
he drove me quite without a check-rein, and then sold me as a perfectly
quiet horse to a gentleman in the country; he was a good master, and I
was getting on very well, but his old groom left him and a new one came.
This man was as hard-tempered and hard-handed as Samson; he always spoke
in a rough, impatient voice, and if I did not move in the stall the
moment he wanted me, he would hit me above the hocks with his stable
broom or the fork, whichever he might have in his hand. Everything he
did was rough, and I began to hate him; he wanted to make me afraid
of him, but I was too high-mettled for that, and one day when he had
aggravated me more than usual I bit him, which of course put him in a
great rage, and he began to hit me about the head with a riding whip.
After that he never dared to come into my stall again; either my heels
or my teeth were ready for him, and he knew it. I was quite quiet with
my master, but of course he listened to what the man said, and so I was
sold again.

"The same dealer heard of me, and said he thought he knew one place
where I should do well. ''Twas a pity,' he said, 'that such a fine horse
should go to the bad, for want of a real good chance,' and the end of it
was that I came here not long before you did; but I had then made up my
mind that men were my natural enemies and that I must defend myself. Of
course it is very different here, but who knows how long it will last? I
wish I could think about things as you do; but I can't, after all I have
gone through
Well
I think it would be a real shame if you were to bite or
kick John or James
I don't mean to
while they are good to me. I did bite
James once pretty sharp, but John said, 'Try her with kindness,' and
instead of punishing me as I expected, James came to me with his arm
bound up, and brought me a bran mash and stroked me; and I have never
snapped at him since, and I won't either
I do believe that mare is
getting fond of me, she quite whinnied after me this morning when I had
been rubbing her forehead
Ay, ay, Jim, 'tis 'the Birtwick balls'
she'll be as good
as Black Beauty by and by; kindness is all the physic she wants, poor
thing
Well, my pretty one, well, how do things go with you
now? You are a good bit happier than when you came to us, I think
We shall make a cure of her, John
Yes, sir, she's wonderfully improved; she's not the same creature that
she was; it's 'the Birtwick balls', sir
There, you rogue, mind how you behave yourself, or we shall get into
trouble
What have you been doing, Merrylegs
Oh
I have only been giving those
young people a lesson; they did not know when they had had enough, nor
when I had had enough, so I just pitched them off backward; that was the
only thing they could understand
What
you threw the children off? I thought you did know
better than that! Did you throw Miss Jessie or Miss Flora
Of course not; I would not do such a thing for the best oats that ever
came into the stable; why, I am as careful of our young ladies as the
master could be, and as for the little ones it is I who teach them to
ride. When they seem frightened or a little unsteady on my back I go as
smooth and as quiet as old pussy when she is after a bird; and when they
are all right I go on again faster, you see, just to use them to it; so
don't you trouble yourself preaching to me; I am the best friend and the
best riding-master those children have. It is not them, it is the boys;
boys
are quite different; they must be
broken in as we were broken in when we were colts, and just be taught
what's what. The other children had ridden me about for nearly two
hours, and then the boys thought it was their turn, and so it was, and
I was quite agreeable. They rode me by turns, and I galloped them about,
up and down the fields and all about the orchard, for a good hour. They
had each cut a great hazel stick for a riding-whip, and laid it on a
little too hard; but I took it in good part, till at last I thought we
had had enough, so I stopped two or three times by way of a hint.
Boys, you see, think a horse or pony is like a steam-engine or a
thrashing-machine, and can go on as long and as fast as they please;
they never think that a pony can get tired, or have any feelings; so as
the one who was whipping me could not understand I just rose up on
my hind legs and let him slip off behind -- that was all. He mounted me
again, and I did the same. Then the other boy got up, and as soon as
he began to use his stick I laid him on the grass, and so on, till they
were able to understand -- that was all. They are not bad boys; they don't
wish to be cruel. I like them very well; but you see I had to give them
a lesson. When they brought me to James and told him I think he was very
angry to see such big sticks. He said they were only fit for drovers or
gypsies, and not for young gentlemen
If I had been you
I would have given those boys a good
kick, and that would have given them a lesson
No doubt you would
but then I am not quite such a
fool (begging your pardon) as to anger our master or make James ashamed
of me. Besides, those children are under my charge when they are riding;
I tell you they are intrusted to me. Why, only the other day I heard our
master say to Mrs. Blomefield, 'My dear madam, you need not be anxious
about the children; my old Merrylegs will take as much care of them as
you or I could; I assure you I would not sell that pony for any money,
he is so perfectly good-tempered and trustworthy;' and do you think I am
such an ungrateful brute as to forget all the kind treatment I have
had here for five years, and all the trust they place in me, and turn
vicious because a couple of ignorant boys used me badly? No, no! you
never had a good place where they were kind to you, and so you don't
know, and I'm sorry for you; but I can tell you good places make good
horses. I wouldn't vex our people for anything; I love them, I do
ho, ho, ho
Besides
if I took to kicking where should I be? Why,
sold off in a jiffy, and no character, and I might find myself slaved
about under a butcher's boy, or worked to death at some seaside place
where no one cared for me, except to find out how fast I could go, or be
flogged along in some cart with three or four great men in it going out
for a Sunday spree, as I have often seen in the place I lived in before
I came here; no
I hope I shall never come
to that
There, there! don't vex yourself; you have the
greatest honor; a mare that can carry a tall man of our master's weight,
with all your spring and sprightly action, does not need to hold her
head down because she does not carry the lady; we horses must take
things as they come, and always be contented and willing so long as we
are kindly used
Accident
it was no accident! it was a cruel,
shameful, cold-blooded act! When I was young I was taken to a place
where these cruel things were done; I was tied up, and made fast so that
I could not stir, and then they came and cut off my long and beautiful
tail, through the flesh and through the bone, and took it away.

"How dreadful
Dreadful, ah! it was dreadful; but it was not only the pain, though
that was terrible and lasted a long time; it was not only the indignity
of having my best ornament taken from me, though that was bad; but it
was this, how could I ever brush the flies off my sides and my hind legs
any more? You who have tails just whisk the flies off without thinking
about it, and you can't tell what a torment it is to have them settle
upon you and sting and sting, and have nothing in the world to lash them
off with. I tell you it is a lifelong wrong, and a lifelong loss; but
thank heaven, they don't do it now
What did they do it for then
For fashion
for
fashion! if you know what that means; there was not a well-bred young
horse in my time that had not his tail docked in that shameful way, just
as if the good God that made us did not know what we wanted and what
looked best
I suppose it is fashion that makes them strap our heads up with those
horrid bits that I was tortured with in London
Of course it is
to my mind, fashion is one of the wickedest
things in the world. Now look, for instance, at the way they serve dogs,
cutting off their tails to make them look plucky, and shearing up their
pretty little ears to a point to make them both look sharp, forsooth. I
had a dear friend once, a brown terrier; 'Skye' they called her. She was
so fond of me that she never would sleep out of my stall; she made
her bed under the manger, and there she had a litter of five as pretty
little puppies as need be; none were drowned, for they were a valuable
kind, and how pleased she was with them! and when they got their eyes
open and crawled about, it was a real pretty sight; but one day the man
came and took them all away; I thought he might be afraid I should tread
upon them. But it was not so; in the evening poor Skye brought them back
again, one by one in her mouth; not the happy little things that they
were, but bleeding and crying pitifully; they had all had a piece of
their tails cut off, and the soft flap of their pretty little ears was
cut quite off. How their mother licked them, and how troubled she was,
poor thing! I never forgot it. They healed in time, and they forgot the
pain, but the nice soft flap, that of course was intended to protect the
delicate part of their ears from dust and injury, was gone forever. Why
don't they cut their own children's ears into points to make them look
sharp? Why don't they cut the end off their noses to make them look
plucky? One would be just as sensible as the other. What right have they
to torment and disfigure God's creatures
Who talks about blockheads
Who talks about blockheads? I believe that is a bad word
Bad words were made for bad things
It is all true
and I've seen that about the
dogs over and over again where I lived first; but we won't talk about
it here. You know that master, and John and James are always good to
us, and talking against men in such a place as this doesn't seem fair
or grateful, and you know there are good masters and good grooms beside
ours, though of course ours are the best
Can any one tell me the use of
blinkers
No
because they are no use
They are supposed
to
prevent horses from shying and starting, and getting so frightened as to
cause accidents
Then what is the reason they do not put them on riding horses;
especially on ladies' horses
There is no reason at all
except the fashion; they
say that a horse would be so frightened to see the wheels of his own
cart or carriage coming behind him that he would be sure to run away,
although of course when he is ridden he sees them all about him if the
streets are crowded. I admit they do sometimes come too close to be
pleasant, but we don't run away; we are used to it, and understand it,
and if we never had blinkers put on we should never want them; we should
see what was there, and know what was what, and be much less frightened
than by only seeing bits of things that we can't understand. Of course
there may be some nervous horses who have been hurt or frightened when
they were young, who may be the better for them; but as I never was
nervous, I can't judge
I consider
that blinkers are dangerous things in
the night; we horses can see much better in the dark than men can, and
many an accident would never have happened if horses might have had the
full use of their eyes. Some years ago, I remember, there was a hearse
with two horses returning one dark night, and just by Farmer Sparrow's
house, where the pond is close to the road, the wheels went too near the
edge, and the hearse was overturned into the water; both the horses were
drowned, and the driver hardly escaped. Of course after this accident
a stout white rail was put up that might be easily seen, but if those
horses had not been partly blinded, they would of themselves have kept
further from the edge, and no accident would have happened. When our
master's carriage was overturned, before you came here, it was said that
if the lamp on the left side had not gone out, John would have seen the
great hole that the road-makers had left; and so he might, but if old
Colin had not had blinkers on he would have seen it, lamp or no lamp,
for he was far too knowing an old horse to run into danger. As it was,
he was very much hurt, the carriage was broken, and how John escaped
nobody knew
I should say
that these men, who
are so wise, had better give orders that in the future all foals should
be born with their eyes set just in the middle of their foreheads,
instead of on the side; they always think they can improve upon nature
and mend what God has made
I'll tell you a secret: I believe John
does not approve of blinkers; I heard him talking with master about it
one day. The master said that 'if horses had been used to them, it might
be dangerous in some cases to leave them off'; and John said he thought
it would be a good thing if all colts were broken in without blinkers,
as was the case in some foreign countries. So let us cheer up, and have
a run to the other end of the orchard; I believe the wind has blown down
some apples, and we might just as well eat them as the slugs
Sawyer
is that pony made of flesh and
blood
Flesh and blood and temper
he's too fond of his own will,
and that won't suit me
And do you think
that treatment like this will
make him fond of your will
He had no business to make that turn; his road was straight on
You have often driven that pony up to my place
it only
shows the creature's memory and intelligence; how did he know that you
were not going there again? But that has little to do with it. I must
say, Mr. Sawyer, that a more unmanly, brutal treatment of a little
pony it was never my painful lot to witness, and by giving way to such
passion you injure your own character as much, nay more, than you injure
your horse; and remember, we shall all have to be judged according to
our works, whether they be toward man or toward beast
What do you think of my new team, Mr. Douglas? You know, you are the
judge of horses in these parts, and I should like your opinion
They
are an uncommonly handsome pair
and if they are as good as
they look I am sure you need not wish for anything better; but I see
you still hold that pet scheme of yours for worrying your horses and
lessening their power
What do you mean
the check-reins? Oh, ah! I know
that's a hobby of yours; well, the fact is, I like to see my horses hold
their heads up
So do I
as well as any man, but I don't like to
see them held up; that takes all the shine out of it. Now, you are a
military man, Langley, and no doubt like to see your regiment look well
on parade, 'heads up', and all that; but you would not take much credit
for your drill if all your men had their heads tied to a backboard! It
might not be much harm on parade, except to worry and fatigue them; but
how would it be in a bayonet charge against the enemy, when they want
the free use of every muscle, and all their strength thrown forward? I
would not give much for their chance of victory. And it is just the same
with horses: you fret and worry their tempers, and decrease their power;
you will not let them throw their weight against their work, and so
they have to do too much with their joints and muscles, and of course
it wears them up faster. You may depend upon it, horses were intended
to have their heads free, as free as men's are; and if we could act a
little more according to common sense, and a good deal less according
to fashion, we should find many things work easier; besides, you know as
well as I that if a horse makes a false step, he has much less chance
of recovering himself if his head and neck are fastened back. And now
I have given my hobby a good trot out, can't
you make up your mind to mount him, too, captain? Your example would go
a long way
I believe you are right in theory
and that's rather
a hard hit about the soldiers; but -- well -- I'll think about it
I wish we were well out of this wood
Yes, sir
it would be rather awkward if one of these
branches came down upon us
That was a very near touch
What's to be done now
Well, sir, we can't drive over that tree, nor yet get round it; there
will be nothing for it, but to go back to the four crossways, and that
will be a good six miles before we get round to the wooden bridge again;
it will make us late, but the horse is fresh
Go on, Beauty
There's something wrong, sir
Come on, Beauty, what's the matter
Hoy, hoy, hoy! halloo! stop
What's the matter
The bridge is broken in the middle, and part of it is carried away; if
you come on you'll be into the river
Thank God
You Beauty
Are you really safe, my dear? Oh! I
have been so anxious, fancying all sorts of things. Have you had no
accident
No, my dear; but if your Black Beauty had not been wiser than we were
we should all have been carried down the river at the wooden bridge
Served him right
Oh, oh, oh
I
say, come and help me out
Thank ye
I think you are quite in the right place, and
maybe a little scratching will teach you not to leap a pony over a gate
that is too high for him
It may be
that young fellow is a liar as well as a cruel one;
we'll just go home by Farmer Bushby's, Beauty, and then if anybody wants
to know you and I can tell 'em, ye see
Have you seen my boy
he went out an
hour ago on my black pony, and the creature is just come back without a
rider
I should think, sir
he had better be without a rider,
unless he can be ridden properly
What do you mean
Well, sir, I saw your son whipping, and kicking, and knocking that good
little pony about shamefully because he would not leap a gate that was
too high for him. The pony behaved well, sir, and showed no vice; but at
last he just threw up his heels and tipped the young gentleman into the
thorn hedge. He wanted me to help him out, but I hope you will excuse
me, sir, I did not feel inclined to do so. There's no bones broken, sir;
he'll only get a few scratches. I love horses, and it riles me to see
them badly used; it is a bad plan to aggravate an animal till he uses
his heels; the first time is not always the last
Oh, my poor Bill, I must go
and meet him; he must be hurt
You had better go into the house, wife
Bill wants a
lesson about this, and I must see that he gets it; this is not the first
time, nor the second, that he has ill-used that pony, and I shall stop
it. I am much obliged to you, Manly. Good-evening
Serve him right. I knew that boy at school;
he took great airs on himself because he was a farmer's son; he used to
swagger about and bully the little boys. Of course, we elder ones would
not have any of that nonsense, and let him know that in the school and
the playground farmers' sons and laborers' sons were all alike. I well
remember one day, just before afternoon school, I found him at the large
window catching flies and pulling off their wings. He did not see me and
I gave him a box on the ears that laid him sprawling on the floor. Well,
angry as I was, I was almost frightened, he roared and bellowed in such
a style. The boys rushed in from the playground, and the master ran in
from the road to see who was being murdered. Of course I said fair and
square at once what I had done, and why; then I showed the master the
flies, some crushed and some crawling about helpless, and I showed him
the wings on the window sill. I never saw him so angry before; but as
Bill was still howling and whining, like the coward that he was, he did
not give him any more punishment of that kind, but set him up on a stool
for the rest of the afternoon, and said that he should not go out to
play for that week. Then he talked to all the boys very seriously about
cruelty, and said how hard-hearted and cowardly it was to hurt the
weak and the helpless; but what stuck in my mind was this, he said that
cruelty was the devil's own trade-mark, and if we saw any one who took
pleasure in cruelty we might know who he belonged to, for the devil was
a murderer from the beginning, and a tormentor to the end. On the other
hand, where we saw people who loved their neighbors, and were kind to
man and beast, we might know that was God's mark
Your master never taught you a truer thing
there is no
religion without love, and people may talk as much as they like about
their religion, but if it does not teach them to be good and kind to man
and beast it is all a sham -- all a sham, James, and it won't stand when
things come to be turned inside out
Good-morning, John
I want to know if you have any
complaint to make of James
Complaint, sir? No, sir
Is he industrious at his work and respectful to you
Yes, sir, always
You never find he slights his work when your back is turned
Never, sir
That's well; but I must put another question. Have you no reason to
suspect, when he goes out with the horses to exercise them or to take a
message, that he stops about talking to his acquaintances, or goes into
houses where he has no business, leaving the horses outside
No, sir, certainly not; and if anybody has been saying that about
James, I don't believe it, and I don't mean to believe it unless I have
it fairly proved before witnesses; it's not for me to say who has been
trying to take away James' character, but I will say this, sir, that a
steadier, pleasanter, honester, smarter young fellow I never had in this
stable. I can trust his word and I can trust his work; he is gentle and
clever with the horses, and I would rather have them in charge with him
than with half the young fellows I know of in laced hats and liveries;
and whoever wants a character of James Howard
let them come to John Manly
James, my lad, set down the oats and come here; I am very glad to find
that John's opinion of your character agrees so exactly with my own.
John is a cautious man
and it is not
always easy to get his opinion about people, so I thought if I beat the
bush on this side the birds would fly out, and I should learn what I
wanted to know quickly; so now we will come to business. I have a letter
from my brother-in-law, Sir Clifford Williams, of Clifford Hall.
He wants me to find him a trustworthy young groom, about twenty or
twenty-one, who knows his business. His old coachman, who has lived with
him thirty years, is getting feeble, and he wants a man to work with him
and get into his ways, who would be able, when the old man was pensioned
off, to step into his place. He would have eighteen shillings a week at
first, a stable suit, a driving suit, a bedroom over the coachhouse, and
a boy under him. Sir Clifford is a good master, and if you could get the
place it would be a good start for you. I don't want to part with you,
and if you left us I know John would lose his right hand
That I should, sir
but I would not stand in his light for
the world
How old are you, James
Nineteen next May, sir
That's young; what do you think, John
Well, sir, it is young; but he is as steady as a man, and is strong,
and well grown, and though he has not had much experience in driving, he
has a light firm hand and a quick eye, and he is very careful, and I am
quite sure no horse of his will be ruined for want of having his feet
and shoes looked after
Your word will go the furthest, John
for Sir
Clifford adds in a postscript, 'If I could find a man trained by your
John I should like him better than any other;' so, James, lad, think it
over, talk to your mother at dinner-time, and then let me know what you
wish
Well
I thought I was pretty quick, and our John quicker
still, but you do beat all I ever saw for being quick and thorough at
the same time
Practice makes perfect
and 'twould
be a pity if it didn't; forty years' practice, and not perfect! ha, ha!
that would be a pity; and as to being quick, why, bless you! that is
only a matter of habit; if you get into the habit of being quick it is
just as easy as being slow; easier, I should say; in fact it don't agree
with my health to be hulking about over a job twice as long as it need
take. Bless you! I couldn't whistle if I crawled over my work as some
folks do! You see, I have been about horses ever since I was twelve
years old, in hunting stables, and racing stables; and being small, ye
see, I was jockey for several years; but at the Goodwood, ye see, the
turf was very slippery and my poor Larkspur got a fall, and I broke my
knee, and so of course I was of no more use there. But I could not live
without horses, of course I couldn't, so I took to the hotels. And I
can tell ye it is a downright pleasure to handle an animal like this,
well-bred, well-mannered, well-cared-for; bless ye! I can tell how a
horse is treated. Give me the handling of a horse for twenty minutes,
and I'll tell you what sort of a groom he has had. Look at this one,
pleasant, quiet, turns about just as you want him, holds up his feet to
be cleaned out, or anything else you please to wish; then you'll find
another fidgety, fretty, won't move the right way, or starts across the
stall, tosses up his head as soon as you come near him, lays his ears,
and seems afraid of you; or else squares about at you with his heels.
Poor things! I know what sort of treatment they have had. If they are
timid it makes them start or shy; if they are high-mettled it makes them
vicious or dangerous; their tempers are mostly made when they are young.
Bless you! they are like children, train 'em up in the way they should
go, as the good book says, and when they are old they will not depart
from it, if they have a chance
I like to hear you talk
that's the way we lay it down at
home, at our master's
Who is your master, young man? if it be a proper question. I should
judge he is a good one, from what I see
He is Squire Gordon, of Birtwick Park, the other side the Beacon
Hills
Ah! so, so, I have heard tell of him; fine judge of horses, ain't he?
the best rider in the county
I believe he is
but he rides very little now, since the
poor young master was killed
Ah! poor gentleman; I read all about it in the paper at the time. A
fine horse killed, too, wasn't there
Yes
he was a splendid creature, brother to this one, and
just like him
Pity! pity
twas a bad place to leap, if I
remember; a thin fence at top, a steep bank down to the stream, wasn't
it? No chance for a horse to see where he is going. Now, I am for bold
riding as much as any man, but still there are some leaps that only
a very knowing old huntsman has any right to take. A man's life and a
horse's life are worth more than a fox's tail; at least, I should say
they ought to be
I say, Towler
just run up the ladder into the loft
and put some hay down into this horse's rack, will you? only lay down
your pipe
All right
Fire
Come, my beauties, it is time for us to be off, so wake up and come
along
Come, Beauty, on with your bridle, my boy, we'll soon be out of this
smother
Here somebody! take this horse while I go back for the other
James Howard! James Howard! Are you there
My brave lad
are you
hurt
Ay
he is a brave lad, and no mistake
And now
when you have got your breath, James, we'll get
out of this place as quickly as we can
Tis the fire-engine! the fire-engine
stand back, make way
James, I must now hasten to your mistress;
I trust the horses entirely to you, order whatever you think is needed
There is one thing quite clear, young man
your horses know
who they can trust; it is one of the hardest things in the world to get
horses out of a stable when there is either fire or flood. I don't know
why they won't come out, but they won't -- not one in twenty
I wonder who is
coming in my place
Little Joe Green at the lodge
Little Joe Green! why, he's a child
He is fourteen and a half
But he is such a little chap
Yes, he is small, but he is quick and willing, and kind-hearted, too,
and then he wishes very much to come, and his father would like it;
and I know the master would like to give him the chance. He said if I
thought he would not do he would look out for a bigger boy; but I said I
was quite agreeable to try him for six weeks
Six weeks
why, it will be six months before he can be of
much use! It will make you a deal of work, John
Well
work and I are very good friends; I
never was afraid of work yet
You are a very good man
I wish I may ever be like you
I don't often speak of myself
but as you are going away
from us out into the world to shift for yourself I'll just tell you how
I look on these things. I was just as old as Joseph when my father and
mother died of the fever within ten days of each other, and left me and
my cripple sister Nelly alone in the world, without a relation that we
could look to for help. I was a farmer's boy, not earning enough to keep
myself, much less both of us, and she must have gone to the workhouse
but for our mistress (Nelly calls her her angel, and she has good right
to do so). She went and hired a room for her with old Widow Mallet, and
she gave her knitting and needlework when she was able to do it; and
when she was ill she sent her dinners and many nice, comfortable things,
and was like a mother to her. Then the master he took me into the stable
under old Norman, the coachman that was then. I had my food at the house
and my bed in the loft, and a suit of clothes, and three shillings a
week, so that I could help Nelly. Then there was Norman; he might have
turned round and said at his age he could not be troubled with a raw boy
from the plow-tail, but he was like a father to me, and took no end of
pains with me. When the old man died some years after I stepped into his
place, and now of course I have top wages, and can lay by for a rainy
day or a sunny day, as it may happen, and Nelly is as happy as a bird.
So you see, James, I am not the man that should turn up his nose at a
little boy and vex a good, kind master. No, no! I shall miss you very
much, James, but we shall pull through, and there's nothing like doing a
kindness when 'tis put in your way, and I am glad I can do it
Then
you don't hold with that saying, 'Everybody look
after himself, and take care of number one
No, indeed
where should I and Nelly have been if master
and mistress and old Norman had only taken care of number one? Why,
she in the workhouse and I hoeing turnips! Where would Black Beauty and
Ginger have been if you had only thought of number one? why, roasted to
death! No, Jim, no! that is a selfish, heathenish saying, whoever uses
it; and any man who thinks he has nothing to do but take care of number
one, why, it's a pity but what he had been drowned like a puppy or a
kitten, before he got his eyes open; that's what I think
You have been my best friend except my mother; I hope you won't
forget me
No, lad, no
and if ever I can do you a good turn I hope
you won't forget me
mauled about
by a boy who knew nothing
You see
I am leaving a great deal behind; my mother
and Betsy, and you, and a good master and mistress, and then the horses,
and my old Merrylegs. At the new place there will not be a soul that I
shall know. If it were not that I shall get a higher place, and be able
to help my mother better, I don't think I should have made up my mind to
it; it is a real pinch, John
Ay, James, lad, so it is; but I should not think much of you if you
could leave your home for the first time and not feel it. Cheer up,
you'll make friends there; and if you get on well, as I am sure you
will, it will be a fine thing for your mother, and she will be proud
enough that you have got into such a good place as that
Wake up, Beauty!
You must go well now, if ever you did
Now, John
ride for your life -- that is, for your mistress'
life; there is not a moment to lose. Give this note to Dr. White; give
your horse a rest at the inn, and be back as soon as you can
Yes, sir
Now
do you keep the gate open for the doctor; here's the
money
Now, Beauty, do your best
Well done, Beauty! good old
fellow
What do you want
Mrs. Gordon is very ill, sir; master wants you to go at once; he thinks
she will die if you cannot get there. Here is a note
Wait
I will come
The worst of it is
that my horse has been out all day and
is quite done up; my son has just been sent for, and he has taken the
other. What is to be done? Can I have your horse
He has come at a gallop nearly all the way, sir, and I was to give him
a rest here; but I think my master would not be against it, if you think
fit, sir
All right
I will soon be ready
You need not take that, sir
Black Beauty will go till he
drops. Take care of him, sir, if you can; I should not like any harm to
come to him
No, no, John
I hope not
Now, my good fellow
take some breath
Stupid boy! stupid boy! no cloth put on, and I dare say the
water was cold, too; boys are no good
My poor Beauty
my good
horse, you saved your mistress' life, Beauty; yes, you saved her life
I wish, John, you'd say a bit of a kind word to Joe. The boy is quite
broken-hearted; he can't eat his meals, and he can't smile. He says he
knows it was all his fault, though he is sure he did the best he knew,
and he says if Beauty dies no one will ever speak to him again. It goes
to my heart to hear him. I think you might give him just a word; he is
not a bad boy
You must not be too hard upon me,
Tom. I know he meant no harm, I never said he did; I know he is not a
bad boy. But you see, I am sore myself; that horse is the pride of my
heart, to say nothing of his being such a favorite with the master and
mistress; and to think that his life may be flung away in this manner is
more than I can bear. But if you think I am hard on the boy I will try
to give him a good word to-morrow -- that is, I mean if Beauty is better
Well, John, thank you. I knew you did not wish to be too hard, and I am
glad you see it was only ignorance
Only ignorance! only ignorance! how can you talk about only ignorance?
Don't you know that it is the worst thing in the world, next to
wickedness?-- and which does the most mischief heaven only knows. If
people can say, 'Oh! I did not know, I did not mean any harm,' they
think it is all right. I suppose Martha Mulwash did not mean to kill
that baby when she dosed it with Dalby and soothing syrups; but she did
kill it, and was tried for manslaughter
And serve her right, too
A woman should not undertake to
nurse a tender little child without knowing what is good and what is bad
for it
Bill Starkey
did not mean to frighten his brother
into fits when he dressed up like a ghost and ran after him in the
moonlight; but he did; and that bright, handsome little fellow, that
might have been the pride of any mother's heart is just no better than
an idiot, and never will be, if he lives to be eighty years old. You
were a good deal cut up yourself, Tom, two weeks ago, when those young
ladies left your hothouse door open, with a frosty east wind blowing
right in; you said it killed a good many of your plants
A good many
there was not one of the tender cuttings that
was not nipped off. I shall have to strike all over again, and the worst
of it is that I don't know where to go to get fresh ones. I was nearly
mad when I came in and saw what was done
And yet
I am sure the young ladies did not mean it; it
was only ignorance
Hold hard
don't go on flogging the horses like that; the
wheels are so stuck that they cannot move the cart
Stop! pray stop
I'll help you to lighten the cart; they
can't move it now
Mind your own business, you impudent young rascal, and I'll mind mine
Halloo! Is Mr. Clay at home
Halloo, young man! You seem in a hurry; any orders from the squire this
morning
No, Mr. Clay, but there's a fellow in your brick-yard flogging two
horses to death. I told him to stop, and he wouldn't; I said I'd help
him to lighten the cart, and he wouldn't; so I have come to tell you.
Pray, sir, go
Thank ye, my lad
Will you give evidence of what you saw if I should bring
the fellow up before a magistrate
That I will
and glad too
Why, what's the matter with you, Joe? You look angry all over
I am angry all over, I can tell you
Right, Joe! you did right, my boy, whether the fellow gets a summons or
not. Many folks would have ridden by and said it was not their
business to interfere. Now I say that with cruelty and oppression it is
everybody's business to interfere when they see it; you did right, my
boy
They
shall have it
Put yourself a bit straight
We won't see such things done, will we, old fellow
Have you decided what to do, John
I find you have not
accepted either of those offers
No, sir; I have made up my mind that if I could get a situation with
some first-rate colt-breaker and horse-trainer, it would be the right
thing for me. Many young animals are frightened and spoiled by wrong
treatment, which need not be if the right man took them in hand. I
always get on well with horses, and if I could help some of them to a
fair start I should feel as if I was doing some good. What do you think
of it, sir
I don't know a man anywhere
that I should think so
suitable for it as yourself. You understand horses, and somehow they
understand you, and in time you might set up for yourself; I think you
could not do better. If in any way I can help you, write to me. I shall
speak to my agent in London, and leave your character with him
Pray, don't,
sir, I can't bear it; you and my dear mistress have done so much for
me that I could never repay it. But we shall never forget you, sir, and
please God, we may some day see mistress back again like herself; we
must keep up hope, sir
Good-by, again
we shall not forget any of you
Drive on, John
God bless them
Good-by, John. God bless you
We shall never see her again
never
Now, Mr. Manly
I can
see no fault in these horses; but we all know that horses have their
peculiarities as well as men, and that sometimes they need different
treatment. I should like to know if there is anything particular in
either of these that you would like to mention
Well
I don't believe there is a better pair of horses in
the country, and right grieved I am to part with them, but they are not
alike. The black one is the most perfect temper I ever knew; I suppose
he has never known a hard word or a blow since he was foaled, and all
his pleasure seems to be to do what you wish; but the chestnut, I fancy,
must have had bad treatment; we heard as much from the dealer. She came
to us snappish and suspicious, but when she found what sort of place
ours was, it all went off by degrees; for three years I have never seen
the smallest sign of temper, and if she is well treated there is not
a better, more willing animal than she is. But she is naturally a more
irritable constitution than the black horse; flies tease her more;
anything wrong in the harness frets her more; and if she were ill-used
or unfairly treated she would not be unlikely to give tit for tat. You
know that many high-mettled horses will do so
Of course
I quite understand; but you know it is not easy
in stables like these to have all the grooms just what they should be. I
do my best, and there I must leave it. I'll remember what you have said
about the mare
I had
better mention that we have never used the check-rein with either of
them; the black horse never had one on, and the dealer said it was the
gag-bit that spoiled the other's temper
Well
if they come here they must wear the check-rein. I
prefer a loose rein myself, and his lordship is always very reasonable
about horses; but my lady -- that's another thing; she will have style,
and if her carriage horses are not reined up tight she wouldn't look at
them. I always stand out against the gag-bit, and shall do so, but it
must be tight up when my lady rides
I am sorry for it, very sorry
but I must go now, or I
shall lose the train
I have great confidence in these horses
from the character
my friend Mr. Gordon has given me of them. Of course they are not a
match in color, but my idea is that they will do very well for the
carriage while we are in the country. Before we go to London I must try
to match Baron; the black horse, I believe, is perfect for riding
Well
you must keep an eye to the mare, and put the
check-rein easy; I dare say they will do very well with a little
humoring at first. I'll mention it to your lady
York, you must put those
horses' heads higher; they are not fit to be seen
I beg your pardon, my lady,
but these horses have not been reined up for three years, and my lord
said it would be safer to bring them to it by degrees; but if your
ladyship pleases I can take them up a little more
Do so
Now
you see what it is like; but this is not bad, and if it does not get
much worse than this I shall say nothing about it, for we are very well
treated here; but if they strain me up tight, why, let 'em look out! I
can't bear it, and I won't
Drive to the Duchess of B ----'s
Are you never going to get those horses' heads up, York? Raise them at
once and let us have no more of this humoring and nonsense
Unbuckle the black horse! Run for the winch and
unscrew the carriage pole! Cut the trace here, somebody, if you can't
unhitch it
Confound these check-reins
I thought we should
have some mischief soon. Master will be sorely vexed. But there, if a
woman's husband can't rule her of course a servant can't; so I wash my
hands of it, and if she can't get to the duchess' garden party I can't
help it
Because
people won't buy them unless we
do. The London people always want their horses to carry their heads high
and to step high. Of course it is very bad for the horses, but then it
is good for trade. The horses soon wear up, or get diseased, and they
come for another pair
is what he said in my hearing,
and you can judge for yourself
What
fine spirited creatures
How is this
Are you tired of your good Black Auster
Oh, no, not at all
but I am amiable enough to let you
ride him for once, and I will try your charming Lizzie. You must confess
that in size and appearance she is far more like a lady's horse than my
own favorite
Do let me advise you not to mount her
she is a charming
creature, but she is too nervous for a lady. I assure you, she is not
perfectly safe; let me beg you to have the saddles changed
My dear cousin
pray do not trouble your
good careful head about me. I have been a horsewoman ever since I was a
baby, and I have followed the hounds a great many times, though I know
you do not approve of ladies hunting; but still that is the fact, and
I intend to try this Lizzie that you gentlemen are all so fond of; so
please help me to mount, like a good friend as you are
Would they ask this
question for her at Dr. Ashley's, and bring the answer
I will wait for you here, and you can hang Auster's rein
on the gate
I will not be five minutes
Oh, do not hurry yourself; Lizzie and I shall not run away from you
Which
way
To the right
To the common, to the common,
sir; she has turned off there
Now, Auster, do your best
Annie, dear Annie, do speak
Can you ride
Well, sir, I bean't much of a horseman, but I'd risk my neck for the
Lady Anne; she was uncommon good to my wife in the winter
Then mount this horse, my friend -- your neck will be quite safe -- and
ride to the doctor's and ask him to come instantly; then on to the hall;
tell them all that you know, and bid them send me the carriage, with
Lady Anne's maid and help. I shall stay here
All right, sir, I'll do my best, and I pray God the dear young lady may
open her eyes soon
Here,
Joe, run for some water, and tell my missis to come as quick as she can
to the Lady Anne
Steady! Woah! Steady
No, no
I'll be back to 'em again by a short cut
through the fields, and be there afore the carriage
I can't tell much
We went a gallop nearly all the way, and
got there just as the doctor rode up. There was a woman sitting on the
ground with the lady's head in her lap. The doctor poured something into
her mouth, but all that I heard was, 'She is not dead.' Then I was led
off by a man to a little distance. After awhile she was taken to
the carriage, and we came home together. I heard my master say to
a gentleman who stopped him to inquire, that he hoped no bones were
broken, but that she had not spoken yet
I could not have held him in
if I would
she ought never to ride any other horse
Take care of your young mistress, Reuben, and don't let Black Auster be
hacked about by any random young prig that wants to ride him -- keep him
for the lady
No
that will be all right till we get home
Have a care, Mr. Smith
It is Reuben
and he does not stir
He's dead
feel
how cold his hands are
Why, the horse has been down and thrown him! Who would have thought the
black horse would have done that? Nobody thought he could fall. Reuben
must have been lying here for hours! Odd, too, that the horse has not
moved from the place
Halloo! he's bad in his foot as well as his knees. Look here -- his hoof
is cut all to pieces; he might well come down, poor fellow! I tell you
what, Ned, I'm afraid it hasn't been all right with Reuben. Just think
of his riding a horse over these stones without a shoe! Why, if he had
been in his right senses he would just as soon have tried to ride him
over the moon. I'm afraid it has been the old thing over again. Poor
Susan! she looked awfully pale when she came to my house to ask if
he had not come home. She made believe she was not a bit anxious, and
talked of a lot of things that might have kept him. But for all that she
begged me to go and meet him. But what must we do? There's the horse to
get home as well as the body, and that will be no easy matter
Oh! he was so good -- so good! It was all that
cursed drink; why will they sell that cursed drink? Oh Reuben, Reuben
And so
here we are,
ruined in the prime of our youth and strength, you by a drunkard, and I
by a fool; it is very hard
There is three hundred pounds flung away for no earthly use
but what I care most for is that these horses of my old friend, who
thought they would find a good home with me, are ruined. The mare shall
have a twelve-month's run, and we shall see what that will do for her;
but the black one, he must be sold; 'tis a great pity, but I could not
have knees like these in my stables
No, my lord, of course not
but he might get a place where
appearance is not of much consequence, and still be well treated. I know
a man in Bath, the master of some livery stables, who often wants a
good horse at a low figure; I know he looks well after his horses.
The inquest cleared the horse's character, and your lordship's
recommendation, or mine, would be sufficient warrant for him
You had better write to him, York. I should be more particular about
the place than the money he would fetch
They'll soon take you away
and I shall lose the only
friend I have, and most likely we shall never see each other again. 'Tis
a hard world
keeping the horse well in
hand
Well, here's a go! Why, they have sent
us out with a lame horse! What a shame
Now,
then, it's no use playing the old soldier with me; there's the journey
to go, and it's no use turning lame and lazy
I beg your pardon, sir
but I think there is something the
matter with your horse; he goes very much as if he had a stone in
his shoe. If you will allow me I will look at his feet; these loose
scattered stones are confounded dangerous things for the horses
He's a hired horse
I don't know what's the matter
with him, but it is a great shame to send out a lame beast like this
Bless me, there's a stone! Lame! I should think so
There, that's the stone your horse had picked up. It is a wonder he did
not fall down and break his knees into the bargain
Well, to be sure
that is a queer thing! I never knew
that horses picked up stones before
Didn't you
but they do,
though, and the best of them will do it, and can't help it sometimes on
such roads as these. And if you don't want to lame your horse you must
look sharp and get them out quickly. This foot is very much bruised
If I might advise,
sir, you had better drive him gently for awhile; the foot is a good deal
hurt, and the lameness will not go off directly
Go along, you lazy beast
Ah
I know my paces are very bad, but
what can I do? It really is not my fault; it is just because my legs are
so short. I stand nearly as high as you, but your legs are a good three
inches longer above your knee than mine, and of course you can take a
much longer step and go much faster. You see I did not make myself.
I wish I could have done so; I would have had long legs then. All my
troubles come from my short legs
But how is it
when you are so strong and good-tempered and
willing
Why, you see
men will go so fast, and if one can't keep up
to other horses it is nothing but whip, whip, whip, all the time. And so
I have had to keep up as I could, and have got into this ugly shuffling
pace. It was not always so; when I lived with my first master I always
went a good regular trot, but then he was not in such a hurry. He was a
young clergyman in the country, and a good, kind master he was. He had
two churches a good way apart, and a great deal of work, but he never
scolded or whipped me for not going faster. He was very fond of me.
I only wish I was with him now; but he had to leave and go to a large
town, and then I was sold to a farmer.

"Some farmers, you know, are capital masters; but I think this one was a
low sort of man. He cared nothing about good horses or good driving; he
only cared for going fast. I went as fast as I could, but that would
not do, and he was always whipping; so I got into this way of making a
spring forward to keep up. On market nights he used to stay very late at
the inn, and then drive home at a gallop.

"One dark night he was galloping home as usual, when all of a sudden the
wheel came against some great heavy thing in the road, and turned the
gig over in a minute. He was thrown out and his arm broken, and some of
his ribs, I think. At any rate, it was the end of my living with him,
and I was not sorry. But you see it will be the same everywhere for me,
if men must go so fast. I wish my legs were longer
Well, I hardly know
I was timid when I was young, and was a
good deal frightened several times, and if I saw anything strange I
used to turn and look at it -- you see, with our blinkers one can't see
or understand what a thing is unless one looks round -- and then my master
always gave me a whipping, which of course made me start on, and did not
make me less afraid. I think if he would have let me just look at things
quietly, and see that there was nothing to hurt me, it would have been
all right, and I should have got used to them. One day an old gentleman
was riding with him, and a large piece of white paper or rag blew across
just on one side of me. I shied and started forward. My master as usual
whipped me smartly, but the old man cried out, 'You're wrong! you're
wrong! You should never whip a horse for shying; he shies because he is
frightened, and you only frighten him more and make the habit worse.'
So I suppose all men don't do so. I am sure I don't want to shy for the
sake of it; but how should one know what is dangerous and what is not,
if one is never allowed to get used to anything? I am never afraid of
what I know. Now I was brought up in a park where there were deer; of
course I knew them as well as I did a sheep or a cow, but they are not
common, and I know many sensible horses who are frightened at them, and
who kick up quite a shindy before they will pass a paddock where there
are deer
Do you consider this horse wants a curb
Well
I should say he would go just as well without;
he has an uncommon good mouth, and though he has a fine spirit he has no
vice; but we generally find people like the curb
I don't like it
be so good as to take it off,
and put the rein in at the cheek. An easy mouth is a great thing on a
long journey, is it not, old fellow
It seems to me, Barry, that your horse does not look so well as he did
when you first had him; has he been well
Yes, I believe so
but he is not nearly so lively as
he was; my groom tells me that horses are always dull and weak in the
autumn, and that I must expect it
Autumn, fiddlesticks
Why, this is only August; and
with your light work and good food he ought not to go down like this,
even if it was autumn. How do you feed him
I can't say who eats your corn, my dear fellow, but I am much mistaken
if your horse gets it. Have you ridden very fast
No, very gently
Then just put your hand here
he is as warm and damp as a horse just come up from
grass. I advise you to look into your stable a little more. I hate to be
suspicious, and, thank heaven, I have no cause to be, for I can trust my
men, present or absent; but there are mean scoundrels, wicked enough to
rob a dumb beast of his food. You must look into it
Give this horse a right good feed of
bruised oats, and don't stint him
Dumb beasts
Show me the place where your father keeps his rabbits'
food
Yes, sir; yes, sir
Alfred, the stable smells rather
strong; should not you give that stall a good scrub and throw down
plenty of water
Well, sir
I'll do so if you please, sir;
but it is rather dangerous, sir, throwing down water in a horse's box;
they are very apt to take cold, sir. I should not like to do him an
injury, but I'll do it if you please, sir
Well
I should not like him to take cold; but I
don't like the smell of this stable. Do you think the drains are all
right
Well, sir, now you mention it, I think the drain does sometimes send
back a smell; there may be something wrong, sir
Then send for the bricklayer and have it seen to
Yes, sir, I will
I don't know what is the matter with this horse; he goes very
fumble-footed. I am sometimes afraid he will stumble
Yes, sir
I have noticed the same myself, when I have
exercised him
Your horse has got the 'thrush', and badly, too; his feet are very
tender; it is fortunate that he has not been down. I wonder your groom
has not seen to it before. This is the sort of thing we find in foul
stables, where the litter is never properly cleaned out. If you will
send him here to-morrow I will attend to the hoof, and I will direct
your man how to apply the liniment which I will give him
By your leave
Well, old chap
I think we should suit each other. I'll give
twenty-four for him
Say twenty-five and you shall have him
Twenty-four ten
and not
another sixpence -- yes or no
Done
and you may depend upon it there's a
monstrous deal of quality in that horse, and if you want him for cab
work he's a bargain
Good-night, governor
Halloo
Have you got a good one
I think so
I wish you luck with him
Thank you, governor
Now, then, Harry, my boy, open the gates, and mother will bring us the
lantern
Is he gentle, father
Yes, Dolly, as gentle as your own kitten; come and pat him
Let me get him a bran mash while you rub him down
Do, Polly, it's just what he wants; and I know you've got a beautiful
mash ready for me
Sausage dumpling and apple turnover
Of course there's no one to tell us whose fault that was
and as long as I don't know I shall give him the benefit of the doubt;
for a firmer, neater stepper I never rode. We'll call him 'Jack', after
the old one -- shall we, Polly
Do
for I like to keep a good name going
Very good for a funeral
Too smart-looking
you'll find out something wrong one of these fine mornings, or my name
isn't Jones
Well
I suppose I need not find it out till it
finds me out, eh? And if so, I'll keep up my spirits a little longer
He's the right sort for
you, Jerry; I don't care what you gave for him, he'll be worth it
That part of it
was dreadful! Of course we could not walk
off the land into the ship; so they were obliged to put strong straps
under our bodies, and then we were lifted off our legs in spite of our
struggles, and were swung through the air over the water, to the deck of
the great vessel. There we were placed in small close stalls, and never
for a long time saw the sky, or were able to stretch our legs. The ship
sometimes rolled about in high winds, and we were knocked about, and
felt bad enough.

"However, at last it came to an end, and we were hauled up, and swung
over again to the land; we were very glad, and snorted and neighed for
joy, when we once more felt firm ground under our feet.

"We soon found that the country we had come to was very different from
our own and that we had many hardships to endure besides the fighting;
but many of the men were so fond of their horses that they did
everything they could to make them comfortable in spite of snow, wet,
and all things out of order
But what about the fighting
was not that worse than anything
else
Well
I hardly know; we always liked to hear the trumpet
sound, and to be called out, and were impatient to start off, though
sometimes we had to stand for hours, waiting for the word of command;
and when the word was given we used to spring forward as gayly and
eagerly as if there were no cannon balls, bayonets, or bullets. I
believe so long as we felt our rider firm in the saddle, and his hand
steady on the bridle, not one of us gave way to fear, not even when the
terrible bomb-shells whirled through the air and burst into a thousand
pieces.

"I, with my noble master, went into many actions together without a
wound; and though I saw horses shot down with bullets, pierced through
with lances, and gashed with fearful saber-cuts; though we left them
dead on the field, or dying in the agony of their wounds, I don't think
I feared for myself. My master's cheery voice, as he encouraged his
men, made me feel as if he and I could not be killed. I had such perfect
trust in him that while he was guiding me I was ready to charge up
to the very cannon's mouth. I saw many brave men cut down, many fall
mortally wounded from their saddles. I had heard the cries and groans
of the dying, I had cantered over ground slippery with blood, and
frequently had to turn aside to avoid trampling on wounded man or horse,
but, until one dreadful day, I had never felt terror; that day I shall
never forget
It was one autumn morning, and as usual, an hour before daybreak our
cavalry had turned out, ready caparisoned for the day's work, whether
it might be fighting or waiting. The men stood by their horses waiting,
ready for orders. As the light increased there seemed to be some
excitement among the officers; and before the day was well begun we
heard the firing of the enemy's guns.

"Then one of the officers rode up and gave the word for the men to
mount, and in a second every man was in his saddle, and every horse
stood expecting the touch of the rein, or the pressure of his rider's
heels, all animated, all eager; but still we had been trained so well
that, except by the champing of our bits, and the restive tossing of our
heads from time to time, it could not be said that we stirred.

"My dear master and I were at the head of the line, and as all sat
motionless and watchful, he took a little stray lock of my mane which
had turned over on the wrong side, laid it over on the right, and
smoothed it down with his hand; then patting my neck, he said, 'We shall
have a day of it to-day, Bayard, my beauty; but we'll do our duty as we
have done.' He stroked my neck that morning more, I think, than he had
ever done before; quietly on and on, as if he were thinking of something
else. I loved to feel his hand on my neck, and arched my crest proudly
and happily; but I stood very still, for I knew all his moods, and when
he liked me to be quiet, and when gay.

"I cannot tell all that happened on that day, but I will tell of the
last charge that we made together; it was across a valley right in front
of the enemy's cannon. By this time we were well used to the roar of
heavy guns, the rattle of musket fire, and the flying of shot near us;
but never had I been under such a fire as we rode through on that day.
From the right, from the left, and from the front, shot and shell poured
in upon us. Many a brave man went down, many a horse fell, flinging his
rider to the earth; many a horse without a rider ran wildly out of the
ranks; then terrified at being alone, with no hand to guide him, came
pressing in among his old companions, to gallop with them to the charge.

"Fearful as it was, no one stopped, no one turned back. Every moment the
ranks were thinned, but as our comrades fell, we closed in to keep
them together; and instead of being shaken or staggered in our pace our
gallop became faster and faster as we neared the cannon.

"My master, my dear master was cheering on his comrades with his right
arm raised on high, when one of the balls whizzing close to my head
struck him. I felt him stagger with the shock, though he uttered no cry;
I tried to check my speed, but the sword dropped from his right hand,
the rein fell loose from the left, and sinking backward from the saddle
he fell to the earth; the other riders swept past us, and by the force
of their charge I was driven from the spot.

"I wanted to keep my place by his side and not leave him under that
rush of horses' feet, but it was in vain; and now without a master or a
friend I was alone on that great slaughter ground; then fear took hold
on me, and I trembled as I had never trembled before; and I too, as I
had seen other horses do, tried to join in the ranks and gallop with
them; but I was beaten off by the swords of the soldiers. Just then a
soldier whose horse had been killed under him caught at my bridle and
mounted me, and with this new master I was again going forward; but our
gallant company was cruelly overpowered, and those who remained alive
after the fierce fight for the guns came galloping back over the same
ground. Some of the horses had been so badly wounded that they could
scarcely move from the loss of blood; other noble creatures were trying
on three legs to drag themselves along, and others were struggling to
rise on their fore feet, when their hind legs had been shattered by
shot. After the battle the wounded men were brought in and the dead were
buried
And what about the wounded horses
were they left to die
No, the army farriers went over the field with their pistols and shot
all that were ruined; some that had only slight wounds were brought back
and attended to, but the greater part of the noble, willing creatures
that went out that morning never came back! In our stables there was
only about one in four that returned.

"I never saw my dear master again. I believe he fell dead from the
saddle. I never loved any other master so well. I went into many other
engagements, but was only once wounded, and then not seriously; and when
the war was over I came back again to England, as sound and strong as
when I went out
I have heard people talk about war as if it was a very fine
thing
Ah
I should think they never saw it. No doubt it is very
fine when there is no enemy, when it is just exercise and parade and
sham fight. Yes, it is very fine then; but when thousands of good brave
men and horses are killed or crippled for life, it has a very different
look
Do you know what they fought about
No
that is more than a horse can understand, but the enemy
must have been awfully wicked people, if it was right to go all that way
over the sea on purpose to kill them
Come, father and mother,
     And sister and brother,
     Come, all of you, turn to
     And help one another
If you in the morning
     Throw minutes away,
     You can't pick them up
     In the course of a day.
     You may hurry and scurry,
     And flurry and worry,
     You've lost them forever,
     Forever and aye
Here, cabby! look sharp, we are rather late; put on the steam, will
you, and take us to the Victoria in time for the one o'clock train? You
shall have a shilling extra
I will take you at the regular pace, gentlemen; shillings don't pay for
putting on the steam like that
I'm your man, gentlemen! take my cab, my horse will get you there all
right
It's
against his conscience to go beyond a jog-trot
No,
Jack, a shilling would not pay for that sort of thing, would it, old
boy
Can you take me to the South-Eastern Railway
this unlucky fall has made me late, I fear; but it is of great
importance that I should not lose the twelve o'clock train. I should be
most thankful if you could get me there in time, and will gladly pay you
an extra fare
I'll do my very best
if you think you are well
enough, sir
I must go
please to open the door, and let us
lose no time
Now then, Jack, my boy
spin along, we'll show them how we
can get over the ground, if we only know why
I think I
had better get out and walk; I shall never get there if this goes on
I'll do all that can be done, sir
I think we shall be
in time. This block-up cannot last much longer, and your luggage is very
heavy for you to carry, sir
Thank God! we are in time
and thank you, too, my
friend, and your good horse. You have saved me more than money can ever
pay for. Take this extra half-crown
No, sir, no, thank you all the same; so glad we hit the time, sir;
but don't stay now, sir, the bell is ringing. Here, porter! take this
gentleman's luggage -- Dover line twelve o'clock train -- that's it
So glad!' he said, 'so glad!' Poor young fellow! I wonder what it was
that made him so anxious
A good deal more than I generally get
what
he gave me will keep me in little comforts for several days
Gammon
He's a humbug
preaching to us and then doing the same
himself
Look here, mates
the gentleman offered me half a crown
extra, but I didn't take it; 'twas quite pay enough for me to see how
glad he was to catch that train; and if Jack and I choose to have a
quick run now and then to please ourselves, that's our business and not
yours
Well
you'll never be a rich man
Most likely not
but I don't know that I shall be the
less happy for that. I have heard the commandments read a great many
times and I never noticed that any of them said, 'Thou shalt be rich';
and there are a good many curious things said in the New Testament about
rich men that I think would make me feel rather queer if I was one of
them
If you ever do get rich
you'll deserve it, Jerry, and you won't find
a curse come with your wealth. As for you, Larry, you'll die poor; you
spend too much in whipcord
Well
what is a fellow to do if his horse won't go
without it
You never take the trouble to see if he will go without it; your whip
is always going as if you had the St. Vitus' dance in your arm, and
if it does not wear you out it wears your horse out; you know you are
always changing your horses; and why? Because you never give them any
peace or encouragement
Well, I have not had good luck
that's where it is
And you never will
Good Luck is rather particular
who she rides with, and mostly prefers those who have got common sense
and a good heart; at least that is my experience
Your servant, sir
Good-morning, Mr. Barker
I should be glad to
make some arrangements with you for taking Mrs. Briggs regularly to
church on Sunday mornings. We go to the New Church now, and that is
rather further than she can walk
Thank you, sir
but I have only taken out a six-days'
license,* and therefore I could not take a fare on a Sunday; it would
not be legal
Oh
I did not know yours was a six-days' cab; but of
course it would be very easy to alter your license. I would see that you
did not lose by it; the fact is, Mrs. Briggs very much prefers you to
drive her
I should be glad to oblige the lady, sir, but I had a seven-days'
license once, and the work was too hard for me, and too hard for my
horses. Year in and year out, not a day's rest, and never a Sunday with
my wife and children; and never able to go to a place of worship, which
I had always been used to do before I took to the driving box. So for
the last five years I have only taken a six-days' license, and I find it
better all the way round
Well, of course
it is very proper that every
person should have rest, and be able to go to church on Sundays, but I
should have thought you would not have minded such a short distance for
the horse, and only once a day; you would have all the afternoon and
evening for yourself, and we are very good customers, you know
Yes, sir, that is true, and I am grateful for all favors, I am sure;
and anything that I could do to oblige you, or the lady, I should be
proud and happy to do; but I can't give up my Sundays, sir, indeed I
can't. I read that God made man, and he made horses and all the other
beasts, and as soon as He had made them He made a day of rest, and bade
that all should rest one day in seven; and I think, sir, He must have
known what was good for them, and I am sure it is good for me; I am
stronger and healthier altogether, now that I have a day of rest; the
horses are fresh too, and do not wear up nearly so fast. The six-day
drivers all tell me the same, and I have laid by more money in the
savings bank than ever I did before; and as for the wife and children,
sir, why, heart alive! they would not go back to the seven days for all
they could see
Oh, very well
Don't trouble yourself, Mr.
Barker, any further. I will inquire somewhere else
Well
we can't help it, Jack, old boy; we must have
our Sundays
Polly
Polly! come here
What is it all about, Jerry
Why, my dear, Mr. Briggs wants me to take Mrs. Briggs to church every
Sunday morning. I say I have only a six-days' license. He says, 'Get a
seven-days' license, and I'll make it worth your while;' and you know,
Polly, they are very good customers to us. Mrs. Briggs often goes out
shopping for hours, or making calls, and then she pays down fair and
honorable like a lady; there's no beating down or making three hours
into two hours and a half, as some folks do; and it is easy work for
the horses; not like tearing along to catch trains for people that are
always a quarter of an hour too late; and if I don't oblige her in this
matter it is very likely we shall lose them altogether. What do you say,
little woman
I say, Jerry
I say, if Mrs. Briggs
would give you a sovereign every Sunday morning, I would not have you a
seven-days' cabman again. We have known what it was to have no Sundays,
and now we know what it is to call them our own. Thank God, you earn
enough to keep us, though it is sometimes close work to pay for all the
oats and hay, the license, and the rent besides; but Harry will soon be
earning something, and I would rather struggle on harder than we do than
go back to those horrid times when you hardly had a minute to look at
your own children, and we never could go to a place of worship together,
or have a happy, quiet day. God forbid that we should ever turn back to
those times; that's what I say, Jerry
And that is just what I told Mr. Briggs, my dear
and
what I mean to stick to. So don't go and fret yourself, Polly
I would not go back to the old times if I earned
twice as much, so that is settled, little woman. Now, cheer up, and I'll
be off to the stand
Never mind, father, never, mind.

     "'Do your best,
     And leave the rest,
     'Twill all come right
     Some day or night
If workingmen don't stick to their Sunday
they'll soon
have none left; it is every man's right and every beast's right. By
God's law we have a day of rest, and by the law of England we have a day
of rest; and I say we ought to hold to the rights these laws give us and
keep them for our children
All very well for you religious chaps to talk so
but
I'll turn a shilling when I can. I don't believe in religion, for I
don't see that your religious people are any better than the rest
If they are not better
it is because they are not
religious. You might as well say that our country's laws are not good
because some people break them. If a man gives way to his temper, and
speaks evil of his neighbor, and does not pay his debts, he is not
religious, I don't care how much he goes to church. If some men are
shams and humbugs, that does not make religion untrue. Real religion is
the best and truest thing in the world, and the only thing that can make
a man really happy or make the world we live in any better
If religion was good for anything
it would prevent your
religious people from making us work on Sundays, as you know many of
them do, and that's why I say religion is nothing but a sham; why, if it
was not for the church and chapel-goers it would be hardly worth while
our coming out on a Sunday. But they have their privileges, as they call
them, and I go without. I shall expect them to answer for my soul, if I
can't get a chance of saving it
That may sound well enough, but it won't do; every man must look
after his own soul; you can't lay it down at another man's door like a
foundling and expect him to take care of it; and don't you see, if you
are always sitting on your box waiting for a fare, they will say, 'If we
don't take him some one else will, and he does not look for any Sunday.'
Of course, they don't go to the bottom of it, or they would see if they
never came for a cab it would be no use your standing there; but
people don't always like to go to the bottom of things; it may not be
convenient to do it; but if you Sunday drivers would all strike for a
day of rest the thing would be done
And what would all the good people do if they could not get to their
favorite preachers
Tis not for me to lay down plans for other people
but
if they can't walk so far they can go to what is nearer; and if it
should rain they can put on their mackintoshes as they do on a week-day.
If a thing is right it can be done, and if it is wrong it can be done
without; and a good man will find a way. And that is as true for us
cabmen as it is for the church-goers
It has all come right, Jerry; Mrs. Briggs sent her servant this
afternoon to ask you to take her out to-morrow at eleven o'clock. I
said, 'Yes, I thought so, but we supposed she employed some one else
now
Well,' said he, 'the real fact is, master was put out because Mr.
Barker refused to come on Sundays, and he has been trying other cabs,
but there's something wrong with them all; some drive too fast, and some
too slow, and the mistress says there is not one of them so nice and
clean as yours, and nothing will suit her but Mr. Barker's cab again
'Twill all come right some day or night': you were right, my dear; you
generally are. Run in and get the supper, and I'll have Jack's harness
off and make him snug and happy in no time
What is it
Well, my dear
poor Dinah Brown has just had a letter
brought to say that her mother is dangerously ill, and that she must
go directly if she wishes to see her alive. The place is more than ten
miles away from here, out in the country, and she says if she takes the
train she should still have four miles to walk; and so weak as she is,
and the baby only four weeks old, of course that would be impossible;
and she wants to know if you would take her in your cab, and she
promises to pay you faithfully, as she can get the money
Tut, tut! we'll see about that. It was not the money I was thinking
about, but of losing our Sunday; the horses are tired, and I am tired,
too -- that's where it pinches
It pinches all round, for that matter
for it's only
half Sunday without you, but you know we should do to other people as
we should like they should do to us; and I know very well what I should
like if my mother was dying; and Jerry, dear, I am sure it won't break
the Sabbath; for if pulling a poor beast or donkey out of a pit would
not spoil it, I am quite sure taking poor Dinah would not do it
Why, Polly, you are as good as the minister, and so, as I've had my
Sunday-morning sermon early to-day, you may go and tell Dinah that I'll
be ready for her as the clock strikes ten; but stop -- just step round to
butcher Braydon's with my compliments, and ask him if he would lend me
his light trap; I know he never uses it on the Sunday, and it would make
a wonderful difference to the horse
All right
now put me up a bit of bread and cheese, and I'll
be back in the afternoon as soon as I can
And I'll have the meat pie ready for an early tea instead of for
dinner
Polly's the woman and no mistake
If your cows would not be offended
there is nothing my
horse would like so well as to have an hour or two in your beautiful
meadow; he's quiet, and it would be a rare treat for him
Do, and welcome
the best we have is at your
service for your kindness to my sister; we shall be having some dinner
in an hour, and I hope you'll come in, though with mother so ill we are
all out of sorts in the house
Well, Polly, I have not lost my Sunday after all, for the birds
were singing hymns in every bush, and I joined in the service; and as
for Jack, he was like a young colt
No, no, finish
your soup, my friend; I have not much time to spare, but I can wait
till you have done, and set your little girl safe on the pavement
There, Dolly, that's a gentleman; that's a real gentleman, Dolly; he
has got time and thought for the comfort of a poor cabman and a little
girl
This horse has got a good master, and he deserves it
If you don't stop that directly, I'll have you arrested for leaving
your horses, and for brutal conduct
What do you want with that
I should have thought, Wright, you had enough business of
your own to look after, without troubling yourself about other people's
horses and servants
Do you know why this world is as bad as it is
No
Then I'll tell you. It is because people think only about their own
business, and won't trouble themselves to stand up for the oppressed,
nor bring the wrongdoer to light. I never see a wicked thing like this
without doing what I can, and many a master has thanked me for letting
him know how his horses have been used
I wish there were more gentlemen like you, sir
for they
are wanted badly enough in this city
My doctrine is this, that if we see cruelty or
wrong that we have the power to stop, and do nothing, we make ourselves
sharers in the guilt
You and your horse look more fit for the police station than for this
rank
If the police have any business with the matter it ought to be with the
masters who charge us so much, or with the fares that are fixed so low.
If a man has to pay eighteen shillings a day for the use of a cab and
two horses, as many of us have to do in the season, and must make that
up before we earn a penny for ourselves I say 'tis more than hard work;
nine shillings a day to get out of each horse before you begin to get
your own living. You know that's true, and if the horses don't work we
must starve, and I and my children have known what that is before now.
I've six of 'em, and only one earns anything; I am on the stand fourteen
or sixteen hours a day, and I haven't had a Sunday these ten or twelve
weeks; you know Skinner never gives a day if he can help it, and if I
don't work hard, tell me who does! I want a warm coat and a mackintosh,
but with so many to feed how can a man get it? I had to pledge my clock
a week ago to pay Skinner, and I shall never see it again
You that have your own horses and cabs, or drive for good masters, have
a chance of getting on and a chance of doing right; I haven't. We can't
charge more than sixpence a mile after the first, within the four-mile
radius. This very morning I had to go a clear six miles and only took
three shillings. I could not get a return fare, and had to come all the
way back; there's twelve miles for the horse and three shillings for me.
After that I had a three-mile fare, and there were bags and boxes enough
to have brought in a good many twopences if they had been put outside;
but you know how people do; all that could be piled up inside on the
front seat were put in and three heavy boxes went on the top. That
was sixpence, and the fare one and sixpence; then I got a return for a
shilling. Now that makes eighteen miles for the horse and six shillings
for me; there's three shillings still for that horse to earn and nine
shillings for the afternoon horse before I touch a penny. Of course, it
is not always so bad as that, but you know it often is, and I say 'tis
a mockery to tell a man that he must not overwork his horse, for when a
beast is downright tired there's nothing but the whip that will keep
his legs a-going; you can't help yourself -- you must put your wife and
children before the horse; the masters must look to that, we can't. I
don't ill-use my horse for the sake of it; none of you can say I do.
There's wrong lays somewhere -- never a day's rest, never a quiet hour
with the wife and children. I often feel like an old man, though I'm
only forty-five. You know how quick some of the gentry are to suspect us
of cheating and overcharging; why, they stand with their purses in
their hands counting it over to a penny and looking at us as if we were
pickpockets. I wish some of 'em had got to sit on my box sixteen hours
a day and get a living out of it and eighteen shillings beside, and that
in all weathers; they would not be so uncommon particular never to give
us a sixpence over or to cram all the luggage inside. Of course, some of
'em tip us pretty handsome now and then, or else we could not live; but
you can't depend upon that
It is desperate hard, and if a man sometimes does what is wrong it is
no wonder, and if he gets a dram too much who's to blow him up
You've beaten me, Sam
for it's all true, and I won't cast
it up to you any more about the police; it was the look in that horse's
eye that came over me. It is hard lines for man and it is hard lines for
beast, and who's to mend it I don't know: but anyway you might tell
the poor beast that you were sorry to take it out of him in that way.
Sometimes a kind word is all we can give 'em, poor brutes, and 'tis
wonderful what they do understand
Halloo
what's up with Seedy Sam
He's ill in bed
he was taken last night in the yard,
and could scarcely crawl home. His wife sent a boy this morning to
say his father was in a high fever and could not get out, so I'm here
instead
How is Sam
He's gone
What, gone? You don't mean to say he's dead
Just snuffed out
he died at four o'clock this
morning; all yesterday he was raving -- raving about Skinner, and having
no Sundays. 'I never had a Sunday's rest,' these were his last words
I'll tell you
what, mates, this is a warning for us
Black Beauty, is that you
And so at last
I was bought by a man who keeps a number of
cabs and horses, and lets them out. You look well off, and I am glad of
it, but I could not tell you what my life has been. When they found out
my weakness they said I was not worth what they gave for me, and that I
must go into one of the low cabs, and just be used up; that is what
they are doing, whipping and working with never one thought of what I
suffer -- they paid for me, and must get it out of me, they say. The man
who hires me now pays a deal of money to the owner every day, and so he
has to get it out of me too; and so it's all the week round and round,
with never a Sunday rest
You used to stand up for yourself if you were ill-used
Ah
I did once, but it's no use; men are strongest, and if
they are cruel and have no feeling, there is nothing that we can do, but
just bear it -- bear it on and on to the end. I wish the end was come,
I wish I was dead. I have seen dead horses, and I am sure they do not
suffer pain; I wish I may drop down dead at my work, and not be sent off
to the knackers
You are the only friend I ever had
How many times shall I tell you not to drive in this way? You ruined
the last horse and broke his wind, and you are going to ruin this in the
same way. If you were not my own son I would dismiss you on the spot;
it is a disgrace to have a horse brought to the shop in a condition like
that; you are liable to be taken up by the police for such driving, and
if you are you need not look to me for bail, for I have spoken to you
till I'm tired; you must look out for yourself
You always say, 'Now be quick; now look sharp!' and when I go to the
houses one wants a leg of mutton for an early dinner and I must be back
with it in a quarter of an hour; another cook has forgotten to order
the beef; I must go and fetch it and be back in no time, or the
mistress will scold; and the housekeeper says they have company coming
unexpectedly and must have some chops sent up directly; and the lady at
No. 4, in the Crescent, never orders her dinner till the meat comes
in for lunch, and it's nothing but hurry, hurry, all the time. If the
gentry would think of what they want, and order their meat the day
before, there need not be this blow up
I wish to goodness they would
twould save me a
wonderful deal of harass, and I could suit my customers much better if
I knew beforehand -- But there! what's the use of talking -- who ever thinks
of a butcher's convenience or a butcher's horse! Now, then, take him
in and look to him well; mind, he does not go out again to-day, and if
anything else is wanted you must carry it yourself in the basket
Old Ba-a-ar Hoo
Jerry! I've had
Mr. B ---- here asking about your vote, and he wants to hire your cab for
the election; he will call for an answer
Well, Polly, you may say that my cab will be otherwise engaged. I
should not like to have it pasted over with their great bills, and as
to making Jack and Captain race about to the public-houses to bring up
half-drunken voters, why, I think 'twould be an insult to the horses.
No, I shan't do it
I suppose you'll vote for the gentleman? He said he was of your
politics
So he is in some things, but I shall not vote for him, Polly; you know
what his trade is
Yes
Well, a man who gets rich by that trade may be all very well in some
ways, but he is blind as to what workingmen want; I could not in my
conscience send him up to make the laws. I dare say they'll be angry,
but every man must do what he thinks to be the best for his country
Why, Dolly, what is the matter
Those naughty boys
have thrown the dirt all over me, and
called me a little raga -- raga
They called her a little 'blue' ragamuffin, father
but I have given it to them; they won't
insult my sister again. I have given them a thrashing they will
remember; a set of cowardly, rascally 'orange' blackguards
Run in to mother, my pet, and tell her
I think you had better stay at home to-day and help her
My boy, I hope you will always defend your sister, and give anybody who
insults her a good thrashing -- that is as it should be; but mind, I won't
have any election blackguarding on my premises. There are as many
'blue' blackguards as there are 'orange', and as many white as there are
purple, or any other color, and I won't have any of my family mixed up
with it. Even women and children are ready to quarrel for the sake of a
color, and not one in ten of them knows what it is about
Why, father, I thought blue was for Liberty
My boy, Liberty does not come from colors, they only show party, and
all the liberty you can get out of them is, liberty to get drunk at
other people's expense, liberty to ride to the poll in a dirty old cab,
liberty to abuse any one that does not wear your color, and to shout
yourself hoarse at what you only half-understand -- that's your liberty
Oh, father, you are laughing
No, Harry, I am serious, and I am ashamed to see how men go on who
ought to know better. An election is a very serious thing; at least it
ought to be, and every man ought to vote according to his conscience,
and let his neighbor do the same
Bow Street Police Station,
quick
We must eat when we can on such days as
these; so munch away, Jack, and make the best of your time, old boy
Poor little fellow
he suffers a deal of pain; he is four
years old and can't walk any more than a baby; but the doctor said if I
could get him into the hospital he might get well; pray, sir, how far is
it; and which way is it
Why, missis
you can't get there walking through crowds
like this! why, it is three miles away, and that child is heavy
Yes, bless him, he is; but I am strong, thank God, and if I knew the
way I think I should get on somehow; please tell me the way
You can't do it
you might be knocked down and the child
be run over. Now look here, just get into this cab, and I'll drive you
safe to the hospital. Don't you see the rain is coming on
No, sir, no; I can't do that, thank you, I have only just money enough
to get back with. Please tell me the way
Look you here, missis
I've got a wife and dear children
at home, and I know a father's feelings; now get you into that cab, and
I'll take you there for nothing. I'd be ashamed of myself to let a woman
and a sick child run a risk like that
Heaven bless you
There, there, cheer up, my dear, I'll soon take you there; come, let me
put you inside
Cab
Engaged
This cab is already engaged, gentlemen, by that lady
Lady
oh! she can wait; our business is very
important, besides we were in first, it is our right, and we shall stay
in
All
right, gentlemen, pray stay in as long as it suits you; I can wait while
you rest yourselves
They'll soon be gone
don't trouble yourself, my dear
Thank you a thousand times
I could never have got here
alone
You're kindly welcome, and I hope the dear child will soon be better
Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the least of these
Cab
Barker! Jeremiah Barker, is it
you? I am very glad to find you here; you are just the friend I want,
for it is very difficult to get a cab in this part of London to-day
I shall be proud to serve you, ma'am; I am right glad I happened to be
here. Where may I take you to, ma'am
To the Paddington Station, and then if we are in good time, as I think
we shall be, you shall tell me all about Mary and the children
How do you find the cab work suit you in winter? I know Mary was rather
anxious about you last year
Yes, ma'am, she was; I had a bad cough that followed me up quite into
the warm weather, and when I am kept out late she does worry herself a
good deal. You see, ma'am, it is all hours and all weathers, and that
does try a man's constitution; but I am getting on pretty well, and I
should feel quite lost if I had not horses to look after. I was brought
up to it, and I am afraid I should not do so well at anything else
Well, Barker
it would be a great pity that you should
seriously risk your health in this work, not only for your own but for
Mary's and the children's sake; there are many places where good drivers
or good grooms are wanted, and if ever you think you ought to give up
this cab work let me know
There is five shillings each for the two children; Mary will
know how to spend it
He'll never get over it
at least not for my work, so the
farrier said this morning. He says he may do for carting, and that sort
of work. It has put me out very much. Carting, indeed! I've seen what
horses come to at that work round London. I only wish all the drunkards
could be put in a lunatic asylum instead of being allowed to run foul of
sober people. If they would break their own bones, and smash their own
carts, and lame their own horses, that would be their own affair, and
we might let them alone, but it seems to me that the innocent
always suffer; and then they talk about compensation! You can't make
compensation; there's all the trouble, and vexation, and loss of time,
besides losing a good horse that's like an old friend -- it's nonsense
talking of compensation! If there's one devil that I should like to see
in the bottomless pit more than another, it's the drink devil
I say, Jerry
you are treading pretty hard on my
toes, you know; I'm not so good as you are, more shame to me; I wish I
was
Well
why don't you cut with it, governor? You are too
good a man to be the slave of such a thing
I'm a great fool, Jerry, but I tried once for two days, and I thought I
should have died; how did you do
I had hard work at it for several weeks; you see I never did get drunk,
but I found that I was not my own master, and that when the craving came
on it was hard work to say 'no'. I saw that one of us must knock under,
the drink devil or Jerry Barker, and I said that it should not be Jerry
Barker, God helping me; but it was a struggle, and I wanted all the
help I could get, for till I tried to break the habit I did not know how
strong it was; but then Polly took such pains that I should have good
food, and when the craving came on I used to get a cup of coffee, or
some peppermint, or read a bit in my book, and that was a help to me;
sometimes I had to say over and over to myself, 'Give up the drink or
lose your soul! Give up the drink or break Polly's heart!' But thanks be
to God, and my dear wife, my chains were broken, and now for ten years I
have not tasted a drop, and never wish for it
I've a great mind to try at it
for 'tis a poor thing not
to be one's own master
Do, governor, do, you'll never repent it, and what a help it would be
to some of the poor fellows in our rank if they saw you do without it. I
know there's two or three would like to keep out of that tavern if they
could
I can do with high spirits
if a horse is not vicious or
hard-mouthed
There is not a bit of vice in him
his mouth is very
tender, and I think myself that was the cause of the accident; you see
he had just been clipped, and the weather was bad, and he had not had
exercise enough, and when he did go out he was as full of spring as a
balloon. Our governor (the coachman, I mean) had him harnessed in as
tight and strong as he could, with the martingale, and the check-rein, a
very sharp curb, and the reins put in at the bottom bar. It is my belief
that it made the horse mad, being tender in the mouth and so full of
spirit
Likely enough; I'll come and see him
but
as it is a card
party, you may have to wait a few minutes, but don't be late
Oh, yes, you'll be wanted safe enough
you must not go,
it will soon be over
Can't I do something
Yes; get Jack something warm, and then boil me some gruel
I wouldn't go to the house, my boy
but I want to know how
your father is
He is very bad
he can't be much worse; they call
it 'bronchitis'; the doctor thinks it will turn one way or another
to-night
That's bad, very bad
I know two men
who died of that last week; it takes 'em off in no time; but while
there's life there's hope, so you must keep up your spirits
Yes
and the doctor said that father had a better
chance than most men, because he didn't drink. He said yesterday the
fever was so high that if father had been a drinking man it would have
burned him up like a piece of paper; but I believe he thinks he will get
over it; don't you think he will, Mr. Grant
If there's any rule that good men should get over these things, I'm
sure he will, my boy; he's the best man I know. I'll look in early
to-morrow
Well
Father is better
Mother hopes he will get over it
Thank God
and now you must keep him warm, and
keep his mind easy, and that brings me to the horses; you see Jack will
be all the better for the rest of a week or two in a warm stable, and
you can easily take him a turn up and down the street to stretch his
legs; but this young one, if he does not get work, he will soon be all
up on end, as you may say, and will be rather too much for you; and when
he does go out there'll be an accident
It is like that now
I have kept him short of corn, but
he's so full of spirit I don't know what to do with him
Just so
Now look here, will you tell your mother that
if she is agreeable I will come for him every day till something is
arranged, and take him for a good spell of work, and whatever he earns,
I'll bring your mother half of it, and that will help with the horses'
feed. Your father is in a good club, I know, but that won't keep the
horses, and they'll be eating their heads off all this time; I'll come
at noon and hear what she says
The streets are nothing but slush
it will give
you a good warming, my boy, to get him clean and dry
All right, governor
I shall not leave him till he is;
you know I have been trained by my father
I wish all the boys had been trained like you
Who lives at Fairstowe, Harry? Mother has got a letter from Fairstowe;
she seemed so glad, and ran upstairs to father with it
Don't you know? Why, it is the name of Mrs. Fowler's place -- mother's
old mistress, you know -- the lady that father met last summer, who sent
you and me five shillings each
Oh! Mrs. Fowler. Of course, I know all about her. I wonder what she is
writing to mother about
Mother wrote to her last week
you know she told father
if ever he gave up the cab work she would like to know. I wonder what
she says; run in and see, Dolly
Oh! Harry, there never was anything so beautiful; Mrs. Fowler says we
are all to go and live near her. There is a cottage now empty that
will just suit us, with a garden and a henhouse, and apple-trees, and
everything! and her coachman is going away in the spring, and then she
will want father in his place; and there are good families round, where
you can get a place in the garden or the stable, or as a page-boy;
and there's a good school for me; and mother is laughing and crying by
turns, and father does look so happy
That's uncommon jolly
and just the right thing, I should
say; it will suit father and mother both; but I don't intend to be a
page-boy with tight clothes and rows of buttons. I'll be a groom or a
gardener
Poor old Jack! dear old Jack! I wish we could
take you with us
Twas no use going twice when once would do, and
he chose to get business forward
Get on, you lazy fellow
or I'll make you
Oh! pray do not whip your good horse any more; I am sure he is doing
all he can, and the road is very steep; I am sure he is doing his best
If doing his best won't get this load up he must do something more than
his best; that's all I know, ma'am
But is it not a heavy load
Yes, yes, too heavy
but that's not my fault; the foreman
came just as we were starting, and would have three hundredweight more
put on to save him trouble, and I must get on with it as well as I can
Pray, stop; I think I can help you if you will let me
You see
you do not give him a fair chance; he cannot use
all his power with his head held back as it is with that check-rein; if
you would take it off I am sure he would do better -- do try it
I should be very glad if you would
Well, well
anything to please a
lady, of course. How far would you wish it down, ma'am
Quite down, give him his head altogether
Poor fellow! that is what you wanted
and now if you will speak kindly to him and
lead him on I believe he will be able to do better
Come on, Blackie
You see he was quite willing when you gave him the chance; I am sure he
is a fine-tempered creature, and I dare say has known better days. You
won't put that rein on again, will you
Well, ma'am, I can't deny that having his head has helped him up the
hill, and I'll remember it another time, and thank you, ma'am; but if
he went without a check-rein I should be the laughing-stock of all the
carters; it is the fashion, you see
Is it not better
to lead a good fashion than to follow a
bad one? A great many gentlemen do not use check-reins now; our carriage
horses have not worn them for fifteen years, and work with much less
fatigue than those who have them; besides
we have no right to distress any of God's creatures without a
very good reason; we call them dumb animals, and so they are, for they
cannot tell us how they feel, but they do not suffer less because they
have no words. But I must not detain you now; I thank you for trying
my plan with your good horse, and I am sure you will find it far better
than the whip. Good-day
That was a real lady, I'll be bound for it
she spoke just as polite as if I was a gentleman, and I'll try her
plan, uphill, at any rate
Papa
I am sure this poor horse cannot take us and all our
luggage so far, he is so very weak and worn up. Do look at him
Oh! he's all right, miss
he's strong enough
Can your horse do it, or can't he
Oh! he can do it all right, sir; send up the boxes, porter; he could
take more than that
Papa, papa, do take a second cab
I am sure we are wrong, I am sure it is very cruel
Nonsense, Grace, get in at once, and don't make all this fuss; a pretty
thing it would be if a man of business had to examine every cab-horse
before he hired it -- the man knows his own business of course; there, get
in and hold your tongue
Oh! that poor horse!
it is all our fault
He's dead, he'll never get up again
This is a case of overwork more than disease, and if you could give him
a run off for six months he would be able to work again; but now there
is not an ounce of strength left in him
Then he must just go to the dogs
I have no meadows to
nurse sick horses in -- he might get well or he might not; that sort of
thing don't suit my business; my plan is to work 'em as long as they'll
go, and then sell 'em for what they'll fetch, at the knacker's or
elsewhere
If he was broken-winded
you had better have him
killed out of hand, but he is not; there is a sale of horses coming off
in about ten days; if you rest him and feed him up he may pick up, and
you may get more than his skin is worth, at any rate
There's a horse, Willie, that has known better days
Poor old fellow
do you think, grandpapa, he was ever a
carriage horse
Oh, yes! my boy
he might have been
anything when he was young; look at his nostrils and his ears, the shape
of his neck and shoulder; there's a deal of breeding about that horse
Poor old fellow! see, grandpapa, how well he understands kindness.
Could not you buy him and make him young again as you did with
Ladybird
My dear boy, I can't make all old horses young; besides, Ladybird was
not so very old, as she was run down and badly used
Well, grandpapa, I don't believe that this one is old; look at his mane
and tail. I wish you would look into his mouth, and then you could tell;
though he is so very thin, his eyes are not sunk like some old horses'
Bless the boy! he is as horsey as his old
grandfather
But do look at his mouth, grandpapa, and ask the price; I am sure he
would grow young in our meadows
The young gentleman's a real knowing one, sir. Now the fact is, this
'ere hoss is just pulled down with overwork in the cabs; he's not an old
one, and I heerd as how the vetenary should say, that a six months' run
off would set him right up, being as how his wind was not broken.
I've had the tending of him these ten days past, and a gratefuller,
pleasanter animal I never met with, and 'twould be worth a gentleman's
while to give a five-pound note for him, and let him have a chance. I'll
be bound he'd be worth twenty pounds next spring
Oh, grandpapa, did you not say the colt sold for five pounds more than
you expected? You would not be poorer if you did buy this one
Thirteen or fourteen, I should say; just
trot him out, will you
What is the lowest you will take for him
Five pounds, sir; that was the lowest price my master set
Tis a speculation
quite a speculation! Have
you any more business here
No, sir, I can take him for you to the inn, if you please
Do so, I am now going there
you, Willie
must take the
oversight of him; I give him in charge to you
This is our point, Willie
but he is improving so
steadily that I think we shall see a change for the better in the
spring
He's growing young, Willie; we must give him a little gentle work now,
and by mid-summer he will be as good as Ladybird. He has a beautiful
mouth and good paces; they can't be better
Oh, grandpapa, how glad I am you bought him
So am I, my boy; but he has to thank you more than me; we must now
be looking out for a quiet, genteel place for him, where he will be
valued
If the ladies take to him
they'll be suited
and he'll be suited. We can but try
You see, ladies
many first-rate horses have
had their knees broken through the carelessness of their drivers without
any fault of their own, and from what I see of this horse I should say
that is his case; but of course I do not wish to influence you. If you
incline you can have him on trial, and then your coachman will see what
he thinks of him
You have always been such a good adviser to us about our horses
that your recommendation would go a long way with me,
and if my sister Lavinia sees no objection we will accept your offer of
a trial, with thanks
I didn't think, sir, you would have recommended my ladies a blemished
horse like that
Handsome is that handsome does'
you are only taking
him on trial, and I am sure you will do fairly by him, young man. If he
is not as safe as any horse you ever drove send him back
That is just like the star that 'Black Beauty' had; he is much the same
height, too. I wonder where he is now
White star in the forehead, one white foot on the off side, this little
knot just in that place
and,
as I am alive, there is that little patch of white hair that John used
to call 'Beauty's three-penny bit'. It must be 'Black Beauty'! Why,
Beauty! Beauty! do you know me?-- little Joe Green, that almost killed
you
Give you a fair trial! I should think so indeed! I wonder who the
rascal was that broke your knees, my old Beauty! you must have been
badly served out somewhere; well, well, it won't be my fault if you
haven't good times of it now. I wish John Manly was here to see you
I shall certainly write to Mrs. Gordon, and tell her that her favorite
horse has come to us. How pleased she will be
In your place he will last till he is twenty years old -- perhaps more
</text>
