<text>
This day six weeks -- just six weeks ago
Half-past twelve -- what was
I doing at half-past twelve
She would have come to care for me
I could have sworn that that last day of all -- and her
people didn't seem to object to me. Her mother asked me cordially enough
to call on them when they were back in town. When I did
After all
it's natural enough. Mrs. Futvoye has probably been making
inquiries about my professional prospects. It's better as it is. What
earthly chance have I got of marrying unless I can get work of my own?
It's all I can do to keep myself decently. I've no right to dream of
asking any one -- to say nothing of Sylvia -- to marry me. I should only be
rushing into temptation if I saw any more of her. She's not for a poor
beggar like me, who was born unlucky. Well, whining won't do any
good -- let's have a look at Beevor's latest performance
William Beevor, Architect
Beevor gets on
Heaven knows that I don't grudge
him his success. He's a good fellow -- though he _does_ build
architectural atrocities, and seem to like 'em. Who am I to give myself
airs? He's successful -- I'm not. Yet if I only had his opportunities,
what wouldn't I make of them
I say, Ventimore, you didn't run off with the plans for that house I'm
building at Larchmere, did you? Because -- ah, I see you're looking over
them. Sorry to deprive you, but
Thanks, old fellow, take them, by all means. I've seen all I wanted to
see
Well, I'm just off to Larchmere now. Want to be there to check the
quantities, and there's my other house at Fittlesdon. I must go on
afterwards and set it out, so I shall probably be away some days. I'm
taking Harrison down, too. You won't be wanting him, eh
I can manage to do nothing without a clerk to help
me. Your necessity is greater than mine. Here are the plans
I'm rather pleased with 'em myself, you know
that roof
ought to look well, eh? Good idea of mine lightening the slate with that
ornamental tile-work along the top. You saw I put in one of your windows
with just a trifling addition. I was almost inclined to keep both gables
alike, as you suggested, but it struck me a little variety -- one red
brick and the other 'parged'-- would be more out-of-the-way
Oh, much
Not, mind you
that I believe in going in for too
much originality in domestic architecture. The average client no more
wants an original house than he wants an original hat; he wants
something he won't feel a fool in. I've often thought, old man, that
perhaps the reason why you haven't got on ---- you don't mind my speaking
candidly, do you
Not a bit
Candour's the cement of
friendship. Dab it on
Well, I was only going to say that you do yourself no good by all those
confoundedly unconventional ideas of yours. If you had your chance
to-morrow, it's my belief you'd throw it away by insisting on some
fantastic fad or other
These speculations are a trifle premature, considering that there
doesn't seem the remotest prospect of my ever getting a chance at all
I got mine before I'd set up six months
The great
thing, however
is
to know how to use it when it _does_ come. Well, I must be off if I mean
to catch that one o'clock from Waterloo. You'll see to anything that may
come in for me while I'm away, won't you, and let me know? Oh, by the
way, the quantity surveyor has just sent in the quantities for that
schoolroom at Woodford -- do you mind running through them and seeing
they're right? And there's the specification for the new wing at
Tusculum Lodge -- you might draft that some time when you've nothing else
to do. You'll find all the papers on my desk. Thanks awfully, old chap
More work for Beevor
what luck the
fellow has! I'd better go in and explain that he's just left town on
business
Extremely kind of you to come and see me like this, sir
Not at all. I'm afraid your visit to Cottesmore Gardens some time ago
was somewhat of a disappointment
A disappointment
I refer to the fact -- which possibly, however, escaped your
notice
that I myself was not at
home on that occasion
Indeed, I was greatly disappointed
though of course I
know how much you are engaged. It's all the more good of you to spare
time to drop in for a chat just now
I've not come to chat, Mr. Ventimore. I never chat. I wanted to see you
about a matter which I thought you might be so obliging as to ---- But I
observe you are busy -- probably too busy to attend to such a small
affair
So much the better
so much the better. Both my
wife and daughter declared that it was making far too great a demand
upon your good nature; but, as I told them, 'I am much mistaken,' I
said, 'if Mr. Ventimore's practice is so extensive that he cannot leave
it for one afternoon
In that case
in that
case, you will be conferring a real favour on me if you can make it
convenient to attend a sale at Hammond's Auction Rooms in Covent Garden,
and just bid for one or two articles on my behalf
Of course I'll go, with
pleasure
if I can be of any use
I knew I shouldn't come to you in vain
I
remembered your wonderful good nature, sir, in accompanying my wife and
daughter on all sorts of expeditions in the blazing hot weather we had
at St. Luc -- when you might have remained quietly at the hotel with me.
Not that I should trouble you now, only I have to lunch at the Oriental
Club, and I've an appointment afterwards to examine and report on a
recently-discovered inscribed cylinder for the Museum, which will fully
occupy the rest of the afternoon, so that it's physically impossible for
me to go to Hammond's myself, and I strongly object to employing a
broker when I can avoid it. Where did I put that catalogue?... Ah, here
it is. This was sent to me by the executors of my old friend, General
Collingham, who died the other day. I met him at Nakada when I was out
excavating some years ago. He was something of a collector in his way,
though he knew very little about it, and, of course, was taken in right
and left. Most of his things are downright rubbish, but there are just a
few lots that are worth securing, at a reasonable figure, by some one
who knew what he was about
But, my dear Professor
I'm afraid I'm as likely as not to pick up some of the
rubbish. I've no special knowledge of Oriental curios
At St. Luc
you impressed me as having, for an
amateur, an exceptionally accurate and comprehensive acquaintance with
Egyptian and Arabian art from the earliest period
However, I've no wish to lay too heavy a burden on you, and, as
you will see from this catalogue, I have ticked off the lots in which I
am chiefly interested, and made a note of the limit to which I am
prepared to bid, so you'll have no difficulty
Very well
I'll go straight to Covent Garden, and slip
out and get some lunch later on
Well, perhaps, if you don't mind. The lots I have marked seem to come
on at rather frequent intervals, but don't let that consideration deter
you from getting your lunch, and if you _should_ miss anything by not
being on the spot, why, it's of no consequence, though I don't say it
mightn't be a pity. In any case, you won't forget to mark what each lot
fetches, and perhaps you wouldn't mind dropping me a line when you
return the catalogue -- or stay, could you look in some time after dinner
this evening, and let me know how you got on?-- that would be better
Don't exceed my
limits
for I can't afford more just now; and mind you give
Hammond your own name, not mine. If the dealers get to know I'm after
the things, they'll run you up. And now, I don't think I need detain you
any longer, especially as time is running on. I'm sure I can trust you
to do the best you can for me. Till this evening, then
Even with _my_ luck
I ought to succeed in getting
at least one or two of the lots he's marked; and if I can only please
him, something may come of it
Lot here, gentlemen
Now we come to Lot 254, gentlemen
a capital Egyptian mummy-case in fine con ---- No, I beg
pardon, I'm wrong. This is an article which by some mistake has been
omitted from the catalogue, though it ought to have been in it.
Everything on sale to-day, gentlemen, belonged to the late General
Collingham. We'll call this No. 253_a_. Antique brass bottle. Very
curious
What do you call this, sir
Is
it as 'unique' as the others
You're as well able to judge as I am
Any one
can see for himself it's not modern rubbish
Make a pretty little ornament for the mantelpiece
Is the top made to unscrew, or what, sir
Seems fixed
on pretty tight
I can't say. Probably it has not been removed for some time
It's a goodish weight
What's inside of it, sir -- sardines
I don't represent it as having anything inside it
If you want to know my opinion, I think there's money in
it
Ow much
Don't misunderstand me, gentlemen. When I say I consider there's money
in it, I'm not alluding to its contents. I've no reason to believe that
it contains anything. I'm merely suggesting the thing itself may be
worth more than it looks
Ah, it might be _that_ without 'urting itself
Well, well, don't let us waste time. Look upon it as a pure
speculation, and make me an offer for it, some of you. Come
Tuppence-'ap'ny
Pray be serious, gentlemen. We want to get on, you know. Anything to
make a start. Five shillings? It's not the value of the metal, but I'll
take the bid. Six. Look at it well. It's not an article you come across
every day of your lives
That's all _right_, you know
That's
good stuff, that is. If I was you, I'd _'ave_ that
Seven shillings -- eight -- nine bid for it over there in the corner
If you think it's so good, why don't you have it yourself
Me? Oh, well, it ain't exactly in my line, and getting this last lot
pretty near cleaned me out. I've done for to-day, I 'ave. All the same,
it is a curiosity; dunno as I've seen a brass vawse just that shape
before, and it's genuine old, though all these fellers are too ignorant
to know the value of it. So I don't mind giving you the tip
Thirteen shillings
Fourteen in two places
I won't go beyond fifteen
Fifteen. It's _against_ you, sir. Any advance on fifteen? Sixteen -- this
very quaint old Oriental bottle going for only sixteen shillings.

"After all
I don't mind anything under a pound for
it
Eighteen
sit quiet like a good little boy and not waste his pocket-money
Nineteen
Pound
A pound only bid for this grand brass vessel
All done at a pound
A guinea. For the last time. You'll _lose_ it, sir
Go on, Tommy. Don't you be beat. Spring another bob on it, Tommy
One guinea -- and that's not
half its value! Gentleman on my left
I must apologise
for
calling at this very unceremonious time; but the fact is, the
Professor
I know all about it
We heard how shamefully
my husband abused your good-nature. Really, it was too bad of him to ask
a busy man like you to put aside his work and go and spend a whole day
at that stupid auction
Oh, I'd nothing particular to do. I can't call myself a busy
man -- unfortunately
Ah, well, it's very nice of you to make light of it; but he ought not
to have done it -- after so short an acquaintance, too. And to make it
worse, he has had to go out unexpectedly this evening, but he'll be back
before very long if you don't mind waiting
There's really no need to wait
because this catalogue
will tell him everything, and, as the particular things he wanted went
for much more than he thought, I wasn't able to get any of them
I'm sure I'm very glad of it
for his study is
crammed with odds and ends as it is, and I don't want the whole house to
look like a museum or an antiquity shop. I'd all the trouble in the
world to persuade him that a great gaudy gilded mummy-case was not quite
the thing for a drawing-room. But, please sit down, Mr. Ventimore
Thanks
but -- but I mustn't stay. If you will tell
the Professor how sorry I was to miss him, and -- and give him back this
note which he left with me to cover any deposit, I -- I won't interrupt
you any longer
Nonsense
I am sure my husband would be most
annoyed if we didn't keep you till he came
I really ought to go
We mustn't tease Mr. Ventimore to stay, mother, when he so evidently
wants to go
Well, I won't detain you -- at least, not long. I wonder if you would
mind posting a letter for me as you pass the pillar-box? I've almost
finished it, and it ought to go to-night, and my maid Jessie has such a
bad cold I really don't like sending her out with it
What a dreadfully long time mamma is over that letter
I think I'd better go and hurry her up
Please don't -- unless you are particularly anxious to get rid of me
I thought you seemed particularly anxious to escape
And, as a family, we have certainly taken up quite enough of your time
for one day
That is not the way you used to talk at St. Luc
At St. Luc? Perhaps not. But in London everything is so different, you
see
Very different
When one meets people abroad who -- who seem at all inclined to be
sociable
one is so apt to think them pleasanter than
they really are. Then one meets them again, and -- and wonders what one
ever saw to like in them. And it's no use pretending one feels the same,
because they generally understand sooner or later. Don't you find that
I do, indeed
though I don't know what I've done to
deserve that you should tell me so
Oh, I was not blaming you. You have been most angelic. I can't think
how papa could have expected you to take all that trouble for
him -- still, you did, though you must have simply hated it
But, good heavens! don't you know I should be only too delighted to be
of the least service to him -- or to any of you
You looked anything but delighted when you came in just now; you looked
as if your one idea was to get it over as soon as you could. You know
perfectly well you're longing now for mother to finish her letter and
set you free. Do you really think I can't see that
If all that is true, or partly true
can't you guess
why
I guessed how it was when you called here first that afternoon. Mamma
had asked you to, and you thought you might as well be civil; perhaps
you really did think it would be pleasant to see us again -- but it wasn't
the same thing. Oh, I saw it in your face directly -- you became
conventional and distant and horrid, and it made me horrid too; and you
went away determined that you wouldn't see any more of us than you could
help. That's why I was so furious when I heard that papa had been to see
you, and with such an object
Perhaps I ought to leave things as they are
but I can't.
It's no earthly use, I know; but may I tell you why it really was
painful to me to meet you again? I thought _you_ were changed, that you
wished to forget, and wished me to forget -- only I can't -- that we had
been friends for a short time. And though I never blamed you -- it was
natural enough -- it hit me pretty hard -- so hard that I didn't feel
anxious to repeat the experience
Did it hit you hard
Perhaps I minded too, just
a very little. However
it only shows how much more sensible
it is to have things out. _Now_ perhaps you won't persist in keeping
away from us
I believe
it would be best that I _should_ keep
away
I don't think I understand
If I must tell you
I've fallen desperately, hopelessly, in
love with you. Now you know the reason
It doesn't seem a very good reason for wanting to go away and never see
me again. _Does_ it
Not when I've no right to speak to you of love
But you've done that
I know
I couldn't help it. But I never meant to.
It slipped out. I quite understand how hopeless it is
Of course, if you are so sure as all that, you are quite right not to
try
Sylvia! You can't mean that -- that you do care, after all
Didn't you really see
How stupid
of you! And how dear
Oh,
Sylvia! Then you do -- you do! But, my God, what a selfish brute I am! For
we can't marry. It may be years before I can ask you to come to me. You
father and mother wouldn't hear of your being engaged to me
_Need_ they hear of it just yet, Horace
Yes, they must. I should feel a cur if I didn't tell your mother, at
all events
Then you shan't feel a cur, for we'll go and tell her together
Mother darling
it's
really all your fault for writing such very long letters, but -- but -- we
don't exactly know how we came to do it -- but Horace and I have got
engaged somehow. You aren't _very_ angry, are you
I think you're both extremely foolish
From
all I hear, Mr. Ventimore, you're not in a position to marry at
present
I'm making nothing as yet. But my
chance must come some day. I don't ask you to give me Sylvia till then
And you know you like Horace, mother
And I'm ready
to wait for him, any time. Nothing will induce me to give him up, and I
shall never, never care for anybody else. So you see you may just as
well give us your consent
I'm afraid I've been to blame
I ought to have
foreseen this at St. Luc. Sylvia is our only child, Mr. Ventimore, and I
would far rather see her happily married than making what is called a
'grand match.' Still, this really does seem _rather_ hopeless. I am
quite sure her father would never approve of it. Indeed, it must not be
mentioned to him -- he would only be irritated
So long as you are not against us
you won't forbid me
to see her
I believe I ought to
but I don't object to your
coming here occasionally, as an ordinary visitor. Only understand
this -- until you can prove to my husband's satisfaction that you are able
to support Sylvia in the manner she has been accustomed to, there must
be no formal engagement. I think I am entitled to ask _that_ of you
It's rather a pity
it's rather a pity that you didn't manage to get
_something_ at that sale. It might have helped you with papa
Well, I did get something on my own account
though I don't
know whether it is likely to do me any good with your father
And you actually gave a guinea for it
when you could
probably get exactly the same thing, only better, at Liberty's for about
seven-and-sixpence! Nothing of that sort has any charms for papa, unless
it's dirty and dingy and centuries old
This looks all that. I only bought it because, though it wasn't down on
the catalogue, I had a fancy that it might interest the Professor
Oh
if only it does, Horace!
If it turns out to be tremendously rare and valuable! I do believe dad
would be so delighted that he'd consent to anything. Ah, that's his step
outside ... he's letting himself in. Now mind you don't forget to tell
him about that bottle
Sorry I was obliged to be from home, and there was nobody
but my wife and daughter here to entertain you. But I am glad you
stayed -- yes, I'm rather glad you stayed
So am I, sir
I wish I'd gone
myself
that bowl, a really fine example of sixteenth-century
Persian work, going for only five guineas! I'd willingly have given ten
for it. There, there, I thought I could have depended on you to use your
judgment better than that
If you remember, sir, you strictly limited me to the sums you marked
Nothing of the sort
my marginal notes
were merely intended as indications, no more. You might have known that
if you had secured one of the things at any price I should have
approved
No doubt the fault was mine
Still, making every allowance for inexperience in
these matters, I should have thought it impossible for any one to spend
a whole day bidding at a place like Hammond's without even securing a
single article
But, dad
Mr. Ventimore did get _one_ thing -- on his
own account. It's a brass bottle, not down in the catalogue, but he
thinks it may be worth something perhaps. And he'd very much like to
have your opinion
Tchah
Some modern bazaar work, most probably.
He'd better have kept his money. What was this bottle of yours like,
now, eh
H'm. Seems to be what the Arabs call a 'kum-kum,' probably used as a
sprinkler, or to hold rose-water. Hundreds of 'em about
It had a lid, riveted or soldered on
the general shape
was something like this
Ha -- the form is antique, certainly. And the top hermetically fastened,
eh? That looks as if it might contain something
You don't think it has a genie inside, like the sealed jar the
fisherman found in the 'Arabian Nights'
What fun if it
had
By genie, I presume you mean a _Jinnee_, which is the more correct and
scholarly term
Female, _Jinneeyeh_, and plural
_Jinn_. No, I do _not_ contemplate that as a probable contingency. But
it is not quite impossible that a vessel closed as Mr. Ventimore
describes may have been designed as a receptacle for papyri or other
records of archaeological interest, which may be still in preservation. I
should recommend you, sir, to use the greatest precaution in removing
the lid -- don't expose the documents, if any, too suddenly to the outer
air, and it would be better if you did not handle them yourself. I shall
be rather curious to hear whether it really does contain anything, and
if so, what
I will open it as carefully as possible
and whatever it
may contain, you may rely upon my letting you know at once
It's a
beastlier-looking object than I thought
A chimney-pot would be about as decorative and appropriate
in my room. What a thundering ass I was to waste a guinea on it! I
wonder if there really is anything inside it. It is so infernally ugly
that it _ought_ to be useful. The Professor seemed to fancy it might
hold documents, and he ought to know. Anyway, I'll find out before I
turn in
I must get some of that off first, and then try again
I've got hold of some sort of
infernal machine
and I shall be all over the square in
less than a second
Awfully good of you to come in, sir
I don't know what's happened exactly, but there's no harm done.
I'm only a trifle shaken, that's all. By the way, I suppose you can
speak English
Assuredly I can speak so as to be understood by all whom I address
Dost thou not understand my speech
Perfectly, now
But you made a remark just now which I
didn't follow -- would you mind repeating it
I said: 'Repentance, O Prophet of God! I will not return to the like
conduct ever
Ah
I dare say you _were_ rather startled. So was I when
I opened that bottle
Tell me -- was it indeed thy hand that removed the seal, O young man of
kindness and good works
I certainly did open it
though I don't know where
the kindness comes in -- for I've no notion what was inside the thing
I was inside it
So _you_ were inside that bottle, were you
How
singular
Dost thou doubt that I speak truth? I tell thee that I have been
confined in that accursed vessel for countless centuries -- how long, I
know not, for it is beyond calculation
I should hardly have thought from your appearance, sir, that you had
been so many years in bottle as all that
but
it's certainly time you had a change. May I, if it isn't indiscreet, ask
how you came into such a very uncomfortable position? But probably you
have forgotten by this time
Forgotten
Wisely was it written: 'Let him that desireth oblivion confer
benefits -- but the memory of an injury endureth for ever.' _I_ forget
neither benefits nor injuries
An old gentleman with a grievance
And mad into
the bargain. Nice person to have staying in the same house with one
Know, O best of mankind
that he who now
addresses thee is Fakrash-el-Aamash, one of the Green Jinn. And I dwelt
in the Palace of the Mountain of the Clouds above the City of Babel in
the Garden of Irem, which thou doubtless knowest by repute
I fancy I _have_ heard of it
Delightful neighbourhood
I had a kinswoman, Bedeea-el-Jemal, who possessed incomparable beauty
and manifold accomplishments. And seeing that, though a Jinneeyeh, she
was of the believing Jinn, I despatched messengers to Suleyman the
Great, the son of Daood, offering him her hand in marriage. But a
certain Jarjarees, the son of Rejmoos, the son of Iblees -- may he be for
ever accursed!-- looked with favour upon the maiden, and, going secretly
unto Suleyman, persuaded him that I was preparing a crafty snare for the
King's undoing
And, of course, _you_ never thought of such a thing
By a venomous tongue the fairest motives may be rendered foul
Thus it came to pass that Suleyman -- on whom be
peace!-- listened unto the voice of Jarjarees and refused to receive the
maiden. Moreover, he commanded that I should be seized and imprisoned in
a bottle of brass and cast into the Sea of El-Karkar, there to abide the
Day of Doom
Too bad -- really too bad
But now, by thy means, O thou of noble ancestors and gentle
disposition, my deliverance hath been accomplished; and if I were to
serve thee for a thousand years, regarding nothing else, even thus could
I not requite thee, and my so doing would be a small thing according to
thy desserts
Pray don't mention it
only too pleased if I've been of
any use to you
In the sky it is written upon the pages of the air: 'He who doth kind
actions shall experience the like.' Am I not an Efreet of the Jinn?
Demand, therefore, and thou shalt receive
Poor old chap
he's very cracked indeed. He'll be
wanting to give me a present of some sort soon -- and of course I can't
have that.... My dear Mr. Fakrash
I've done
nothing -- nothing at all -- and if I had, I couldn't possibly accept any
reward for it
What are thy names, and what calling dost thou follow
I ought to have introduced myself before -- let me give you my card
That's my business address. I'm an architect, if you know what that
is -- a man who builds houses and churches -- mosques, you know -- in fact,
anything, when he can get it to build
A useful calling indeed -- and one to be rewarded with fine gold
In my case
the reward has been too fine to be
perceived. In other words, I've never _been_ rewarded, because I've
never yet had the luck to get a client
And what is this client of whom thou speakest
Oh, well, some well-to-do merchant who wants a house built for him and
doesn't care how much he spends on it. There must be lots of them
about -- but they never seem to come in _my_ direction
Grant me a period of delay, and, if it be possible, I will procure thee
such a client
My dear sir
if you _should_ come across that
particular type of client, and can contrive to impress him with the
belief that I'm just the architect he's looking out for -- which, between
ourselves, I am, though nobody's discovered it yet -- if you can get him
to come to me, you will do me the very greatest service I could ever
hope for. But don't give yourself any trouble over it
It will be one of the easiest things that can be
that is
provided that anything of my former power yet remains unto me
Well, never mind, sir
if you can't, I shall take the
will for the deed
First of all, it will be prudent to learn where Suleyman is, that I may
humble myself before him and make my peace
Yes
I would. I should make a point of that,
sir. Not _now_, you know. He might be in bed. To-morrow morning
This is a strange place that I am in, and I know not yet in what
direction I should seek him. But till I have found him, and justified
myself in his sight, and had my revenge upon Jarjarees, mine enemy, I
shall know no rest
Well, but go to bed now, like a sensible old chap
Plenty of time to go and call on Suleyman
to-morrow
I will search for him, even unto the uttermost ends of the earth
That's right -- you're sure to find him in one of them. Only, don't you
see, it's no use starting to-night -- the last trains have gone long ago
To-morrow
I'll speak to Mrs. Rapkin, and get her
to send for a doctor and have him put under proper care -- the poor old
boy really isn't fit to go about alone
I will start now -- at once
for there is no time
to be lost
Oh, come
after so many thousand years, a few hours more
or less won't make any serious difference. And you _can't_ go out
now -- they've shut up the house. Do let me take you upstairs to your
room, sir
Not so, for I must leave thee for a season, O young man of kind
conduct. But may thy days be fortunate, and the gate never cease to be
repaired, and the nose of him that envieth thee be rubbed in the dust,
for love for thee hath entered into my heart, and if it be permitted
unto me, I will cover thee with the veils of my protection
He can't
really have vanished through the wall
That's too
absurd. The fact is, I'm over-excited this evening -- and no wonder, after
all that's happened. The best thing I can do is to go to bed at once
genie
Arabian Nights
Jinnee
Shall you be dining in this evening, sir
I don't know. Don't get anything in for me; I shall most probably dine
at the club
By the way
if a kind of brass pot is sent
here, it's all right. I bought it at a sale yesterday. Be careful how
you handle it -- it's rather old
There _was_ a vawse come late last night, sir; I don't know if it's
that, it's old-fashioned enough
Then will you bring it up at once, please? I want to see it
I
thought you'd have noticed it when you come in last night, sir
for I stood it in the corner, and when I see it this morning
it was layin' o' one side and looking that dirty and disrespectable I
took it down to give it a good clean, which it wanted it
I hope I've done nothing wrong
I only used a little warm ale to it, which is a capital
thing for brass-work, and gave it a scrub with 'Vitrolia' soap -- but it
would take more than that to get all the muck off of it
It is all right, so long as you didn't try to get the top off
Why, the top _was_ off it, sir. I thought you'd done it with the 'ammer
and chisel when you got 'ome
I found them
'ere on the carpet
Oh, ah
I
believe I did. I'd forgotten. That reminds me. Haven't you let the room
above to -- to an Oriental gentleman -- a native, you know -- wears a green
turban
That I most certainly 'ave _not_, Mr. Ventimore
nor wouldn't. Not if his turbin was all the colours of
the rainbow -- for I don't 'old with such. Why, there was Rapkin's own
sister-in-law let her parlour floor to a Horiental -- a Parsee _he_ was,
or _one_ o' them Hafrican tribes -- and reason she 'ad to repent of it,
for all his gold spectacles! Whatever made you fancy I should let to a
blackamoor
Oh, I thought I saw somebody about -- er -- answering that description,
and I wondered if
Never in _this_ 'ouse, sir. Mrs. Steggars, next door but one, might let
to such, for all I can say to the contrary, not being what you might
call particular, and her rooms more suitable to savage notions -- but I've
enough on _my_ hands, Mr. Ventimore, attending to you -- not keeping a
girl to do the waiting, as why should I while I'm well able to do it
better myself
Arabian
Nights
I beg your pardon
I never heard you come in
My dear sir
my dear sir, you must think this is a most unceremonious way
of -- ah!-- dropping in on you -- of invading your privacy
Not at all
I'm afraid there
was no one to show you in -- my clerk is away just now
No matter, sir, no matter. I found my way up, as you perceive. The
important, I may say the essential, fact is that I _am_ here
Quite so
and may I ask what brought you
What brought
Allow me, I -- I shall come to that -- in good time. I am still a
little -- as you can see
You are, I think,
an architect, Mr. ah -- Mr. um
Ventimore is my name
and I _am_ an architect
Ventimore, to be sure
Yes, it's all quite correct: I see I have the name here. And an
architect, Mr. Ventimore, so I -- I am given to understand, of immense
ability
I'm afraid I can't claim to be that
but I may call
myself fairly competent
Competent? Why, of _course_ you're competent. Do you suppose, sir, that
I, a practical business man, should come to any one who was _not_
competent
Am I to understand that some one has been good enough to recommend me
to you
Certainly not, sir, certainly not. _I_ need no recommendation but my
own judgment. I -- ah -- have a tolerable acquaintance with all that is
going on in the art world, and I have come to the conclusion,
Mr.-- eh -- ah -- Ventimore, I repeat, the deliberate and unassisted
conclusion, that you are the one man living who can do what I want
Delighted to hear it
When did you
see any of my designs
Never mind, sir. I don't decide without very good grounds. It
doesn't take me long to make up my mind, and when my mind is made
up, I act, sir, I act. And, to come to the point, I have a small
commission -- unworthy, I am quite aware, of your -- ah -- distinguished
talent -- which I should like to put in your hands
Is _he_ going to ask me to attend a sale for him
I'm
hanged if I do
I'm rather busy at present
as you may see. I'm
not sure whether
I'll put the matter in a nutshell, sir -- in a nutshell. My name is
Wackerbath, Samuel Wackerbath -- tolerably well known, if I may say so, in
City circles
I've lately bought a few acres on
the Hampshire border, near the house I'm living in just now; and I've
been thinking -- as I was saying to a friend only just now, as we were
crossing Westminster Bridge -- I've been thinking of building myself a
little place there, just a humble, unpretentious home, where I could run
down for the weekend and entertain a friend or two in a quiet way, and
perhaps live some part of the year. Hitherto I've rented places as I
wanted 'em -- old family seats and ancestral mansions and so forth: very
nice in their way, but I want to feel under a roof of my own. I want to
surround myself with the simple comforts, the -- ah -- unassuming elegance
of an English country home. And you're the man -- I feel more convinced of
it with every word you say -- you're the man to do the job in
style -- ah -- to execute the work as it should be done
I shall be happy to do my best
Could you give me some idea of the amount you are
prepared to spend
Well, I'm no Croesus -- though I won't say I'm a pauper precisely -- and,
as I remarked before, I prefer comfort to splendour. I don't think I
should be justified in going beyond -- well, say sixty thousand
Sixty thousand
Oh, not _more_ than sixty thousand? I see
I mean, on the house itself
there will be
outbuildings, lodges, cottages, and so forth, and then some of the rooms
I should want specially decorated. Altogether, before we are finished,
it may work out at about a hundred thousand. I take it that, with such a
margin, you could -- ah -- run me up something that in a modest way would
take the shine out of -- I mean to say eclipse -- anything in the adjoining
counties
I certainly think
that for such a sum as that I can
undertake that you shall have a home which will satisfy you
You're young, sir
but I perceive you are up to all the tricks of the -- I _should_ say,
versed in the _minutiae_ of your profession. You would like to run down
and look at the ground, eh? Well, that's only reasonable; and my wife
and daughters will want to have _their_ say in the matter -- no getting on
without pleasing the ladies, hey? Now, let me see. To-morrow's Sunday.
Why not come down by the 8.45 a.m. to Lipsfield? I'll have a trap, or a
brougham and pair, or something, waiting for you -- take you over the
ground myself, bring you back to lunch with us at Oriel Court, and talk
the whole thing thoroughly over. Then we'll send you up to town in the
evening, and you can start work the first thing on Monday. That suit
you? Very well, then. We'll expect you to-morrow
This is taking a most unfair advantage of what I was weak
enough to say last night, Mr. Ventimore
I thought I could
have trusted you
I shouldn't have come so soon
if my position were what it
was only yesterday. But it's changed since then, and I venture to hope
that even the Professor won't object now to our being regularly
engaged
Well
you had better speak to my husband about
it
Well
so I was not
mistaken -- there was something in the brass bottle after all, then? Let's
have a look at it, whatever it is
Oh
I -- I got it open; but there was nothing in it
Just as I anticipated, sir
I told you there
couldn't be anything in a bottle of that description; it was simply
throwing money away to buy it
I dare say it was, but I wished to speak to you on a much more
important matter
Dear me
dear me!
I'd no idea of this -- no idea at all. I was under the impression that you
volunteered to act as escort to my wife and daughter at St. Luc purely
out of good nature to relieve me from what -- to a man of my habits in
that extreme heat -- would have been an arduous and distasteful duty
I was not wholly unselfish, I admit
I fell in love with
your daughter, sir, the first day I met her -- only I felt I had no right,
as a poor man with no prospects, to speak to her or you at that time
A very creditable feeling -- but I've yet to learn why you should have
overcome it
I know this Mr. Samuel Wackerbath by name
one of
the chief partners in the firm of Akers and Coverdale, the great estate
agents -- a most influential man, if you can only succeed in satisfying
him
Oh, I don't feel any misgivings about that, sir
I mean
to build him a house that will be beyond his wildest expectations, and
you see that in a year I shall have earned several thousands, and I need
not say that I will make any settlement you think proper when I
marry
When you are in possession of those thousands
it will be time enough to talk of marrying and making
settlements. Meanwhile, if you and Sylvia choose to consider yourselves
engaged, I won't object -- only I must insist on having your promise that
you won't persuade her to marry you without her mother's and my
consent
There is one thing, my dear -- er -- Horace
one
thing on which I think it my duty to caution you. If you are to justify
the confidence we have shown in sanctioning your engagement to Sylvia,
you must curb this propensity of yours to needless extravagance
Papa
What _could_ have made you think Horace
extravagant
Really
I shouldn't have called myself particularly so
Nobody ever _does_ call himself particularly extravagant
but I observed at St. Luc that you habitually gave fifty
centimes as a _pourboire_ when twopence, or even a penny, would have
been handsome. And no one with any regard for the value of money would
have given a guinea for a worthless brass vessel on the bare chance that
it might contain manuscripts, which (as any one could have foreseen) it
did not
But it's not a bad sort of bottle, sir
If you
remember, you said yourself the shape was unusual. Why shouldn't it be
worth all the money, and more
To a collector, perhaps
which you are not. No, I can only call it a senseless and
reprehensible waste of money
Well, the truth is
I bought it with some idea that it
might interest _you_
Then you were mistaken, sir. It does _not_ interest me. Why should I be
interested in a metal jar which, for anything that appears to the
contrary, may have been cast the other day at Birmingham
But there _is_ something
a seal or inscription of some
sort engraved on the cap. Didn't I mention it
You said nothing about an inscription before
What is the character -- Arabic? Persian?
Kufic
I really couldn't say -- it's almost rubbed out -- queer little triangular
marks, something like birds' footprints
That sounds like Cuneiform
which would seem to
point to a Phoenician origin. And, as I am acquainted with no Oriental
brass earlier than the ninth century of our era, I should regard your
description as, _a priori_, distinctly unlikely. However, I should
certainly like to have an opportunity of examining the bottle for myself
some day
Whenever you please, Professor. When can you come
Why, I'm so much occupied all day that I can't say for certain when I
can get up to your office again
My own days will be fairly full now
and the thing's not
at the office, but in my rooms at Vincent Square. Why shouldn't you all
come and dine quietly there some evening next week, and then you could
examine the inscription comfortably afterwards, you know, Professor, and
find out what it really is? Do say you will
No, no
I see no reason why you should be
troubled with the entire family. I may drop in alone some evening and
take the luck of the pot, sir
Thank you, papa
but _I_ should like to come too,
please, and hear what you think of Horace's bottle. And I'm dying to see
his rooms. I believe they're fearfully luxurious
I trust
that they are far indeed from answering
that description. If they did, I should consider it a most
unsatisfactory indication of Horace's character
There's nothing magnificent about them, I assure you
Though it's true I've had them done up, and all that sort of thing, at
my own expense -- but quite simply. I couldn't afford to spend much on
them. But do come and see them. I must have a little dinner, to
celebrate my good fortune -- it will be so jolly if you'll all three
come
If we do come
it must be on the distinct
understanding that you don't provide an elaborate banquet. Plain,
simple, wholesome food, well cooked, such as we have had this evening,
is all that is necessary. More would be ostentatious
My _dear_ dad
Surely you can leave all that to Horace
Horace, my dear, understands that, in speaking as I did, I was simply
treating him as a potential member of my family
No young man who contemplates marrying should
allow himself to launch into extravagance on the strength of prospects
which, for all he can tell
may prove
fallacious. On the contrary, if his affection is sincere, he will incur
as little expense as possible, put by every penny he can save, rather
than subject the girl he professes to love to the ordeal of a long
engagement. In other words, the truest lover is the best economist
I quite understand, sir
it would be
foolish of me to attempt any ambitious form of entertainment -- especially
as my landlady, though an excellent plain cook, is not exactly a _cordon
bleu_. So you can come to my modest board without misgivings
striking the stars
with his uplifted head
Stroke thy head, O merciful and meritorious one
and recover thy faculties to receive good tidings. For it is indeed
I -- Fakrash-el-Aamash -- whom thou beholdest
I -- I'm delighted to see you
Is there anything I can do for you
Nay, for hast thou not done me the greatest of all services by setting
me free? To escape out of a bottle is pleasant. And to thee I owe my
deliverance
Oh, that's all right, my dear sir
don't think any more
about it. I -- I rather understood you to say that you were starting on a
journey in search of Solomon
I have been, and returned. For I visited sundry cities in his
dominions, hoping that by chance I might hear news of him, but I
refrained from asking directly lest thereby I should engender suspicion,
and so Suleyman should learn of my escape before I could obtain an
audience of him and implore justice
Oh, I shouldn't think that was likely
If I were you, I
should go straight back and go on travelling till I _did_ find
Suleyman
Well was it said: 'Pass not any door without knocking, lest haply that
which thou seekest should be behind it
Exactly
Do each city thoroughly, house by house, and
don't neglect the smallest clue. 'If at first you don't succeed, try,
try, try, again!' as one of our own poets teaches
Try, try, try again
Divinely gifted truly was he who composed such a
verse
He has a great reputation as a sage
and the maxim is
considered one of his happiest efforts. Don't you think that, as the
East is rather thickly populated, the less time you lose in following
the poet's recommendation the better
It may be as thou sayest. But know this, O my son, that wheresoever I
may wander, I shall never cease to study how I may most fitly reward
thee for thy kindness towards me. For nobly it was said: 'If I be
possessed of wealth and be not liberal, may my head never be extended
My good sir
do please understand that if you were to
offer me any reward for -- for a very ordinary act of courtesy, I should
be obliged to decline it
But didst thou not say that thou wast sorely in need of a client
That was so at the time
but since I last had the
pleasure of seeing you, I have met with one who is all I could possibly
wish for
I am indeed rejoiced to hear it
for thou
showest me that I have succeeded in performing the first service which
thou hast demanded of me
You -- _you_ sent him to me
I, and no other
for
while, unseen of men, I was circling in air, resolved to attend to thy
affair before beginning my search for Suleyman (on whom be peace!), it
chanced that I overheard a human being of prosperous appearance say
aloud upon a bridge that he desired to erect for himself a palace if he
could but find an architect. So, perceiving thee afar off seated at an
open casement, I immediately transported him to the place and delivered
him into thy hands
But he knew my name -- he had my card in his pocket
I furnished him with the paper containing thy names and abode, lest he
should be ignorant of them
Well, look here, Mr. Fakrash
I know you
meant well -- but _never_ do a thing like that again! If my
brother-architects came to know of it I should be accused of most
unprofessional behaviour. I'd no idea you would take that way of
introducing a client to me, or I should have stopped it at once
It was an error
No matter. I will undo this affair,
and devise some other and better means of serving thee
No, no
for Heaven's sake, leave things alone -- you'll only
make them worse. Forgive me, my dear Mr. Fakrash, I'm afraid I must seem
most ungrateful; but -- but I was so taken by surprise. And really, I am
extremely obliged to you. For, though the means you took were ---- were a
little irregular, you have done me a very great service
It is naught
compared to those I hope to render so
great a benefactor
But, indeed, you mustn't think of trying to do any more for me
You have
done enough. Why, thanks to you, I am engaged to build a palace that
will keep me hard at work and happy for ever so long
Are human beings, then, so enamoured of hard labour
It is not thus with the Jinn
I love my work for its own sake
and then, when I have
finished it, I shall have earned a very fair amount of money -- which is
particularly important to me just now
And why, my son, art thou so desirous of obtaining riches
Because
unless a man is tolerably well off in these
days he cannot hope to marry
How excellent is the saying
of one of old: 'He that adventureth upon matrimony is like unto one who
thrusteth his hand into a sack containing many thousands of serpents and
one eel. Yet, if Fate so decree, he _may_ draw forth the eel.' And thou
art comely, and of an age when it is natural to desire the love of a
maiden. Therefore be of good heart and a cheerful eye, and it may be
that, when I am more at leisure, I shall find thee a helpmate who shall
rejoice thy soul
Please don't trouble to find me anything of the sort
I assure you I would much
rather win a wife for myself in the ordinary way -- as, thanks to your
kindness, I have every hope of doing before long
Is there already some damsel for whom thy heart pineth? If so, fear not
to tell me her names and dwelling place, and I will assuredly obtain her
for thee
No, no; of course
not. I spoke generally
It's exceedingly kind of you -- but I
_do_ wish I could make you understand that I am overpaid as it is. You
have put me in the way to make a name and fortune for myself. If I fail,
it will be my own fault. And, at all events, I want nothing more from
you. If you mean to find Suleyman (on whom be peace!) you must go and
live in the East altogether -- for he certainly isn't over here; you must
give up your whole time to it, keep as quiet as possible, and don't be
discouraged by any reports you may hear. Above all, never trouble your
head about me or my affairs again
O thou of wisdom and eloquence
this is most excellent
advice. I will go, then; but may I drink the cup of perdition if I
become unmindful of thy benevolence
Thank Heaven
he's taken the hint at last. I don't
think I'm likely to see any more of him. I feel an ungrateful brute for
saying so, but I can't help it. I can _not_ stand being under any
obligation to a Jinnee who's been shut up in a beastly brass bottle ever
since the days of Solomon, who probably had very good reasons for
putting him there
It would have been too brutal to tell him myself
when he was so keen on having his case reheard. And it gives him an
object, poor old buffer, and keeps him from interfering in my affairs,
so it's best for both of us
Nothing elaborate, you know, Mrs.
Rapkin
Just a simple dinner, thoroughly well
cooked, and nicely served -- as you know so well how to do it
I suppose, sir, you would require Rapkin to wait
Now, what soup can you give us
Well then, fish
how about fish
a nice
fried sole
What's in season just now
let me
see
Camels, by Jove
_Camels_, Mr. Ventimore, sir
I'll be shot if they _aren't_ camels
What do _you_ make
of 'em, Mrs. Rapkin
What the deuce does a caravan of camels want in Vincent Square
Most likely they belong to the Barnum Show, sir
I did hear they were coming to Olympia again this year
Why, of course
It's on their way
from the Docks -- at least, it isn't _out_ of their way. Or probably the
main road's up for repairs. That's it -- they'll turn off to the left at
the corner. See, they've got Arab drivers with them. Wonderful how the
fellows manage them
It seems to me, sir
that they're coming _our_
way -- they seem to be stopping outside
Don't talk such infernal ---- I beg your pardon, Mrs. Rapkin; but why
on earth should Barnum and Bailey's camels come out of their way to call
on _me_? It's ridiculous, you know
Ridicklous it _may_ be, sir
but they're all layin'
down on the road opposite our door, as you can see -- and them niggers is
making signs to you to come out and speak to 'em
I suppose I'd better go down and see what they want
They may have lost the way to Olympia.... I only
hope Fakrash isn't at the bottom of this
But he'd come himself -- at all events, he wouldn't send me a
message on such a lot of camels
For Heaven's sake get up
This isn't
Hammersmith. Turn to the left, into the Vauxhall Bridge Road, and ask a
policeman the nearest way to Olympia
Be not angry with thy slaves
We are here by command of Fakrash-el-Aamash, our lord, whom we
are bound to obey. And we have brought thee these as gifts
My compliments to your master
and
tell him that a London architect has no sort of occasion for camels. Say
that I am extremely obliged -- but am compelled to decline them
O highly born one
the camels are not a
gift -- but the loads which are upon the camels. Suffer us, therefore,
since we dare not disobey our lord's commands, to carry these trifling
tokens of his good will into thy dwelling and depart in peace
Oh, if you _must_
only do look sharp about it -- there's a crowd
collecting already, and I don't want to have a constable here
It's -- it's all right
I'd forgotten -- it's only a
few Oriental things from the place where that brass bottle came from,
you know. They've left them here -- on approval
Seems funny their sending their goods 'ome on camels, sir, doesn't it
Not at all funny
they -- they're an enterprising
firm -- their way of advertising
I wonder what sort of tip this fellow expects
a
sovereign seems shabby -- but it's all I can run to. I'll try him with
that
This won't _do_, you know
these 'ere camels must
move on -- or I shall 'ave to interfere
It's all right, constable
they're going to move on now.
They've brought me a few presents from -- from a friend of mine in the
East
I shouldn't mind knowin' that friend o' yours, sir
open-hearted sort o' gentleman, I should think
Very
Damn
But, then
it wouldn't amuse me
in the least to convulse money markets. Do I want to see the smartest
people in London grovelling for anything they think they're likely to
get out of me? As I should be perfectly well aware that their homage was
not paid to any personal merit of mine, I could hardly consider it
flattering. And why should I make kingdoms? The only thing I understand
and care about is making houses. Then, am I likely to be a better hand
at dominating the world than all the others who have tried the
experiment? I doubt it
And the biggest millionaire living
is a pauper
compared with me
I think I see myself
calling on some diamond
merchant in Hatton Garden with half a dozen assorted jewels in a
Gladstone bag. If he believed they were genuine, he'd probably have a
fit; but most likely he'd think I'd invented some dodge for
manufacturing them, and had been fool enough to overdo the size. Anyhow,
he'd want to know how they came into my possession, and what could I
say? That they were part of a little present made to me by a Jinnee in
grateful acknowledgment of my having relieved him from a brass bottle in
which he'd been shut up for nearly three thousand years? Look at it how
you will, it's _not_ convincing. I fancy I can guess what he'd say. And
what an ass I should look! Then suppose the thing got into the papers
I was going to ask you, sir, before them parcels came
what you would like in the way of
ongtray to-morrow night. I thought if I could find a sweetbread at all
reasonable
I can't bother about that now, Mrs. Rapkin
we'll settle it
to-morrow. I'm too busy
I suppose most of these things will have to go back, sir, if they're
only sent on approval like
I -- I'm not
sure
I may have to keep them
Well, sir, bargain or none, I wouldn't have 'em as a gift myself, being
so dirty and fusty; they can't be no use to anybody, not to mention
there being no room to move with them blocking up all the place. I'd
better tell Rapkin to carry 'em all upstairs out of people's way
Certainly not
Don't touch them,
either of you. Leave them exactly as they are, do you understand
As you please, Mr. Ventimore, sir; only, if they're not to be
interfered with, I don't see myself how you're going to set your friends
down to dinner to-morrow, that's all
It will be all right
we'll manage somehow -- leave it to me
It's no good
I feel a perfect duffer this morning. I couldn't
even design a decent dog-kennel
He's a thoroughly good-natured old chap
He means well, and I'm a beast not to feel more
glad to see him. And yet, hang it all! I can't have him popping in and
out of the office like a rabbit whenever the fancy takes him
Peace be upon thee
Moderate the trouble of thy heart,
and impart thy difficulties to me
Oh, they're nothing, thanks
I got stuck over my work for the moment, and it worried me
a little -- that's all
Then thou hast not yet received the gifts which I commanded should be
delivered at thy dwelling-place
Oh, indeed I have
and -- and I really don't know how
to thank you for them
A few trifling presents
and by no means suited
to thy dignity -- yet the best in my power to bestow upon thee for the
time being
My dear sir, they simply overwhelm me with their magnificence! They're
beyond all price, and -- and I've no idea what to do with such a
superabundance
A superfluity of good things is good
Not in my particular case. I -- I quite feel your goodness and
generosity; but, indeed, as I told you before, it's really impossible
for me to accept any such reward
How sayest thou that it is
impossible -- seeing that these things are already in thy possession
I know
but -- you won't be offended if I speak quite
plainly
Art thou not even as a son to me, and can I be angered at any words of
thine
Well
honestly, then, I would very
much rather -- if you're sure you don't mind -- that you would take them all
back again
What? Dost thou demand that I, Fakrash-el-Aamash, should consent to
receive back the gifts I have bestowed? Are they, then, of so little
value in thy sight
They're of too much value. If I took such a reward for -- for a very
ordinary service, I should never be able to respect myself again
This is not the reasoning of an intelligent person
If you think me a fool, I can't help it. I'm not an ungrateful fool, at
all events. But I feel very strongly that I can't keep these gifts of
yours
So thou wouldst have me break the oath which I swore to reward thee
fitly for thy kind action
But you _have_ rewarded me already
by contriving that a
wealthy merchant should engage me to build him a residence. And -- forgive
my plain speaking -- if you truly desire my happiness (as I am sure you
do) you will relieve me of all these precious gems and merchandise,
because, to be frank, they will _not_ make me happy. On the contrary,
they are making me extremely uncomfortable
In the days of old
all men pursued wealth; nor could
any amass enough to satisfy his desires. Have riches, then, become so
contemptible in mortal eyes that thou findest them but an encumbrance?
Explain the matter
I can't
answer for other men
All I know is that I've never been
accustomed to being rich, and I'd rather get used to it gradually, and
be able to feel that I owed it, as far as possible, to my own exertions.
For, as I needn't tell _you_, Mr. Fakrash, riches alone don't make any
fellow happy. You must have observed that they're apt to -- well, to land
him in all kinds of messes and worries.... I'm talking like a confounded
copybook
but I don't care how priggish I am if I can only
get my way
O young man of marvellous moderation
Thy sentiments are not inferior to those of the Great Suleyman
himself (on whom be peace!). Yet even he doth not utterly despise them,
for he hath gold and ivory and precious stones in abundance. Nor
hitherto have I ever met a human being capable of rejecting them when
offered. But, since thou seemest sincere in holding that my poor and
paltry gifts will not advance thy welfare, and since I would do thee
good and not evil -- be it even as thou wouldst. For excellently was it
said: 'The worth of a present depends not on itself, nor on the giver,
but on the receiver alone
It's
extremely good of you, sir
to take it so well. And if you
_could_ let that caravan call for them as soon as possible, it would be
a great convenience to me. I mean -- er -- the fact is, I'm expecting a few
friends to dine with me to-morrow, and, as my rooms are rather small at
the best of times, I don't quite know how I can manage to entertain
them at all unless something is done
It will be the easiest of actions
therefore, have
no fear that, when the time cometh, thou wilt not be able to entertain
thy friends in a fitting manner. And for the caravan, it shall set out
without delay
By Jove, though, I'd forgotten one thing
I've locked up
the room where your presents are -- they won't be able to get in without
the key
Against the servants of the Jinn neither bolts nor bars can prevail.
They shall enter therein and remove all that they brought thee, since it
is thy desire
Very many thanks
And you do _really_ understand that
I'm every bit as grateful as if I could keep the things? You see, I want
all my time and all my energies to complete the designs for this
building, which
I should never be in a position
to do at all, but for your assistance
On my arrival
I heard thee lamenting the difficulties
of the task; wherein do they consist
Oh
it's a little difficult to please all the different
people concerned, and myself too. I want to make something of it that I
shall be proud of, and that will give me a reputation. It's a large
house, and there will be a good deal of work in it; but I shall manage
it all right
This is a great undertaking indeed
But be persuaded that it shall all turn out most fortunately
and thou shalt obtain great renown. And now
I am
compelled to take leave of thee, for I am still without any certain
tidings of Suleyman
You mustn't let me keep you
You see
so long as you _will_
neglect your own much more important affairs to look after mine, you can
hardly expect to make _much_ progress, can you
How excellent is the saying
The time which is
spent in doing kindnesses, call it not wasted
Yes, that's very good
But _we_ have a
saying too -- how does it go? Ah, I remember. 'It is possible for a
kindness to be more inconvenient than an injury
Marvellously gifted was he who discovered such a saying
I imagine
he learnt it from his own experience. By the
way, what place were you thinking of drawing -- I mean trying -- next for
Suleyman
I purpose to repair to Nineveh, and inquire there
Capital
Wonderful city, Nineveh, from
all I've heard -- though not quite what it used to be, perhaps. Then
there's Babylon -- you might go on there. And if you shouldn't hear of him
there, why not strike down into Central Africa, and do that thoroughly?
Or South America; it's a pity to lose any chance -- you've never been to
South America yet
I have not so much as heard of such a country, and how should Suleyman
be there
Pardon me, I didn't say he _was_ there. All I meant to convey was, that
he's quite as likely to be there as anywhere else. But if you're going
to Nineveh first, you'd better lose no more time, for I've always
understood that it's rather an awkward place to get at -- though probably
_you_ won't find it very difficult
I care not
though the search be long, for in travel
there are five advantages
I know
so don't stop to describe them now. I
should like to see you fairly started, and you really mustn't think it
necessary to break off your search again on my account, because, thanks
to you, I shall get on splendidly alone for the future -- if you'll kindly
see that that merchandise is removed
Thine abode shall not be encumbered with it for another hour
O thou judicious one, in whose estimation wealth is of no
value, know that I have never encountered a mortal who pleased me as
thou hast; and moreover, be assured that such magnanimity as thine shall
not go without a recompense
How often must I tell you
that
I am already much more than recompensed? Now, my kind, generous old
friend
the
time has come to bid you farewell -- for ever. Let me picture you as
revisiting your former haunts, penetrating to quarters of the globe
(for, whether you are aware of it or not, this earth of ours _is_ a
globe) hitherto unknown to you, refreshing your mind by foreign travel
and the study of mankind -- but never, never for a moment losing sight of
your main object, the eventual discovery of and reconciliation with
Suleyman (on whom be peace!). That is the greatest, the only happiness
you can give me now. Good-bye, and _bon voyage_
May Allah never deprive thy friends of thy presence
for truly thou art
a most excellent young man
Why
if a fellow
expressed a modest wish for a canary in a cage he's just the sort of old
Jinnee to bring him a whole covey of rocs in an aviary about ten times
the size of the Crystal Palace. However, he _does_ understand now that I
can't take anything more from him, and he isn't offended either, so
_that's_ all settled. Now I can set to work and knock off these plans in
peace and quietness
Well, old man
I _am_ glad. I really am, you know. To think of a prize like
that coming to you the very first time! And you don't even know how this
Mr. Wackerbath came to hear of you -- just happened to see your name up
outside and came in, I expect. Why, I dare say, if I hadn't chanced to
go away as I did -- and about a couple of paltry two thousand pound
houses, too! Ah, well, I don't grudge you your luck, though it _does_
seem rather ---- It was worth waiting for; you'll be cutting _me_ out
before long -- if you don't make a mess of this job. I mean, you know, old
chap, if you don't go and give your City man a Gothic castle when what
he wants is something with plenty of plate-glass windows and a
Corinthian portico. That's the rock I see ahead of _you_. You mustn't
mind my giving you a word of warning
Oh no
but I shan't give him either a Gothic castle
or plenty of plate-glass. I venture to think he'll be pleased with the
general idea as I'm working it out
Let's hope so
If you get into any difficulty, you
know
just you come to me
Thanks
I will. But I'm getting on very fairly at
present
I should rather like to see what you've made of it. I might be able to
give you a wrinkle here and there
It's awfully good of you, but I think I'd rather you didn't see the
plans till they're quite finished
Oh, just as you please
you always
_were_ an obstinate beggar. I've had a certain amount of experience, you
know, in my poor little pottering way, and I thought I might possibly
have saved you a cropper or two. But if you think you can manage better
alone -- only don't get bolted with by one of those architectural hobbies
of yours, that's all
All right, old fellow. I'll ride my hobby on the curb
Them camels come back for the things this afternoon, sir
and it put me in a fluster at first, for I made sure you'd
locked your door and took the key. But I must have been
mistook -- leastways, them Arabs got in somehow. I hope you meant
everything to go back
Quite
I saw the -- the person who sent them this morning,
and told him there was nothing I cared for enough to keep
And like his impidence sending you a lot o' rubbish like that on
approval -- and on camels, too
I'm sure I don't
know what them advertising firms will try next -- pushing, _I_ call it
I might have kept some of those tissues and things
for Sylvia
and she loves pearls. And a prayer-carpet
would have pleased the Professor tremendously. But no, after all, it
wouldn't have done. Sylvia couldn't go about in pearls the size of new
potatoes, and the Professor would only have ragged me for more reckless
extravagance. Besides, if I'd taken any of the Jinnee's gifts, he might
keep on pouring more in, till I should be just where I was before -- or
worse off, really, because I couldn't decently refuse them, then. So
it's best as it is
I must have mistaken the number
Oh, Mr. Ventimore, sir
whatever _will_ you go and do
next, I wonder? To think of your going and having the whole place done
up and altered out of knowledge like this, without a word of warning! If
any halterations were required, I _do_ think as me and Rapkin had the
right to be consulted
but, oh
if he would only learn to let well alone and mind his own
business
Didn't I mention I
was having some alterations made
They've got the
work done rather sooner than I expected. Were -- were they long over it
I'm sure I can't tell you, sir, having stepped out to get some things I
wanted in for to-night; and Rapkin, he was round the corner at his
reading-room; and when I come back it was all done and the workmen gone
'ome; and how they could have finished such a job in the time beats me
altogether, for when we 'ad the men in to do the back kitchen they took
ten days over it
Well
however they've done this,
they've done it remarkably well -- you'll admit that, Mrs. Rapkin
That's as may be sir
but it ain't
_my_ taste, nor yet I don't think it will be Rapkin's taste when he
comes to see it
Sorry for that, Mrs. Rapkin
but I've no time to talk
about it now. I must rush upstairs and dress
Begging your pardon, sir, but that's a total unpossibility -- for they've
been and took away the staircase.'

"Taken away the staircase? Nonsense
So _I_ think, Mr. Ventimore -- but it's what them men have done, and if
you don't believe me, come and see for yourself
Well
it -- it all looks very _cosy_, Mrs. Rapkin
It's not for me to say, sir; but I should like to know where you
thought of dining
Where
Why, here, of course. There's plenty of room
There isn't a table left in the house
so, unless
you'd wish the cloth laid on the floor
Oh, there must be a table somewhere
or you
can borrow one. Don't _make_ difficulties, Mrs. Rapkin. Rig up anything
you like.... Now I must be off and dress
he remarked huskily.

"There have been a few changes
as you can see.
You don't happen to know where they've put my dress-clothes, do you
I don't 'appen to know where they've put nothink. Your dress clothes?
Why, I dunno where they've bin and put our little parler where me and
Maria 'ave set of a hevenin' all these years regular. I dunno where
they've put the pantry, nor yet the bath-room, with 'ot and cold water
laid on at my own expense. And you arsk me to find your hevenin' soot! I
consider, sir, I consider that a unwall -- that a most unwarrant-terrible
liberty have bin took at my expense
My good man, don't talk rubbish
I'm talking to you about what _I know_, and I assert that an
Englishman's 'ome is his cashle, and nobody's got the right when his
backsh turned to go and make a 'Ummums of it. Not _nobody_ 'asn't
Make a _what_ of it
A 'Ummums -- that's English, ain't it? A bloomin' Turkish baths! Who do
you suppose is goin' to take apartments furnished in this 'ere
ridic'loush style? What am I goin' to say to my landlord? It'll about
ruing me, this will; and after you bein' a lodger 'ere for five year and
more, and regarded by me and Maria in the light of one of the family.
It's 'ard -- it's damned 'ard
Now, look here
pull
yourself together, man, and listen to me
I respeckfully decline to pull myshelf togerrer f'r anybody livin
I shtan' 'ere upon my dignity as a
man, sir. I shay, I shtand 'ere upon
You can stand on anything you like -- or can
but hear
what I've got to say. The -- the people who made all these alterations
went beyond my instructions. I never wanted the house interfered with
like this. Still, if your landlord doesn't see that its value is
immensely improved, he's a fool, that's all. Anyway, I'll take care
_you_ shan't suffer. If I have to put everything back in its former
state, I will, at my own expense. So don't bother any more about
_that_
You're a gen'l'man, Mr. Ventimore
There's no mishtaking a gen'l'man. _I'm_ a gen'l'man
Of course you are
and I'll tell you how you're
going to show it. You're going straight downstairs to get your good wife
to pour some cold water over your head; and then you will finish
dressing, see what you can do to get a table of some sort and lay it for
dinner, and be ready to announce my friends when they arrive, and wait
afterwards. Do you see
That will be all ri', Mr. Ventimore
You leave it entirely to
me. I'll unnertake that your friends shall be made comforrable, perfelly
comforrable. I've lived as butler in the besht, the mosht ecxlu -- most
arishto -- you know the sort o' fam'lies I'm tryin' to r'member -- and -- and
everything was always all ri', and _I_ shall be all ri' in a few
minutes
This is too bad
my friends may be here at any moment
now -- and nothing done. You don't propose to wait at table like that, do
you
I do not propose to wait in any garments whatsoever
I'm
a-goin' out, I am
Very well
then send the waiter up -- I suppose he's
come
He come -- but he went away again -- I told him as he wouldn't be
required
You told him that
Come, Rapkin, be reasonable. You can't really mean to leave your wife
to cook the dinner, and serve it too
She ain't intending to do neither; she've left the house already
You must fetch her back
Good heavens, man, _can't_ you
see what a fix you're leaving me in? My friends have started long
ago -- it's too late to wire to them, or make any other arrangements
There they are
For the last time, Rapkin
do you mean to tell me there's no dinner ready
Oh
there's dinner right enough, and a lot o' barbarious
furriners downstairs a cookin' of it -- that's what broke Maria's 'art -- to
see it all took out of her 'ands, after the trouble she'd gone to
But I must have somebody to wait
You've got waiters enough, as far as that goes. But if you expect a
hordinary Christian man to wait along of a lot o' narsty niggers, and be
at their beck and call, you're mistook, sir, for I'm going to sleep the
night at my brother-in-law's and take his advice, he bein' a doorkeeper
at a solicitor's orfice and knowing the law, about this 'ere business,
and so I wish you a good hevening, and 'oping your dinner will be to
your liking and satisfaction
So you've found your way here at last
I can't tell you how
delighted I am to see you
And these
these are the bachelor lodgings you
were so modest about! Really
you young men seem to understand how to make yourselves
comfortable -- don't they, Anthony
They do, indeed
To produce such results as
these must, if I mistake not, have entailed infinite research -- and
considerable expense
No
no. You -- you'd be surprised if you knew how little
I should have imagined
that _any_ outlay on
apartments which I presume you do not contemplate occupying for an
extended period must be money thrown away. But, doubtless, you know
best
But your rooms are quite wonderful, Horace
And where, _where_ did you get that
magnificent dressing-gown? I never saw anything so lovely in my life
I -- I ought to apologise for receiving you in this costume
but the fact is, I couldn't find my evening
clothes anywhere, so -- so I put on the first things that came to hand
It is hardly necessary
hardly
necessary to offer any apology for the simplicity of your costume -- which
is entirely in keeping with the -- ah -- strictly Oriental character of your
interior
_I_ feel dreadfully out of keeping
for there's nothing
in the least Oriental about _me_ -- unless it's my scarab -- and he's I
don't know how many centuries behind the time, poor dear
If you said 'thousands of years,' my dear
you would be more accurate. That scarab was taken out of a tomb of the
thirteenth dynasty
Well, I'm sure he'd rather be where he is
Horace, I _must_ look at everything. How
clever and original of you to transform an ordinary London house into
this
Oh, well, you see
it -- it wasn't exactly done by
me
Whoever did it
must have devoted considerable
study to Eastern art and architecture. May I ask the name of the firm
who executed the alterations
I really couldn't tell you, sir
You can't tell me
You order these
extensive, and _I_ should say expensive, decorations, and you don't know
the firm you selected to carry them out
Of course I _know_
only I don't happen to remember at
this moment. Let me see, now. Was it Liberty? No, I'm almost certain it
wasn't Liberty. It might have been Maple, but I'm not sure. Whoever did
do it, they were marvellously cheap
I am glad to hear it
Where is your dining-room
Why, I rather think
I rather think _this_ is
the dining-room
You appear to be in some doubt
I leave it to them -- it depends where they choose to lay the cloth
Sometimes in one place; sometimes in another. There's a
great charm in uncertainty
Doubtless
Your -- ah -- groom of the chambers
seems to have
decided that we should dine here. I observe they are making signs to you
that the food is on the table
So it is
Shall we sit down
But, my dear Horace
your butler has forgotten the
chairs
You don't appear to realise, my dear
that in
such an interior as this chairs would be hopelessly incongruous
I'm afraid there aren't any
Let's sit down on these
It -- it's
more fun
At my time of life
such fun as may be derived from eating
one's meals on the floor fails to appeal to my sense of humour. However,
I admit that it is thoroughly Oriental
_I_ think it's delightful
ever so much nicer than a
stiff, conventional dinner-party
One may be unconventional
without escaping the
penalty of stiffness. Go away, sir! go away
Your servant, Ventimore, appears to imagine that I go out to dinner
without taking the trouble to wash my hands previously. This, I may
mention, is _not_ the case
It's only an Eastern ceremony, Professor
I am perfectly well aware of what is customary in the East
it does not follow that such -- ah -- hygienic precautions
are either necessary or desirable at a Western table
If I were dining
in the desert with a Sheik, sir
I should, I
hope, know how to conform to his habits and prejudices. Here, in the
heart of London, I confess all this strikes me as a piece of needless
pedantry
I'm very sorry
I'd have some knives and forks if I
could -- but I'm afraid these fellows don't even understand what they are,
so it's useless to order any. We -- we must rough it a little, that's all.
I hope that -- er -- fish is all right, Professor
Thank you
it is curious -- but characteristic. Not
_any_ more, thank you
Might I ask for something to drink
I'm very sorry, my dear fellow
but if I
drink this I shall be ill all next day. If I might have a glass of
wine
It's an old and, I make no doubt, a fine wine
but I fancy it must have suffered in
transportation. I really think that, with my gouty tendency, a little
whisky and Apollinaris would be better for me -- if you keep such
occidental fluids in the house
No matter
I am not so thirsty that I cannot wait
till I get home
I hope
you don't find this Eastern cookery
very -- er -- unpalatable
it's
rather a change from the ordinary routine
I have made a truly wonderful dinner, thank you
Even in the East
I have eaten nothing approaching this
But where did your landlady pick up this extraordinary cooking, my dear
Horace
I thought you said she was merely a plain
cook. Has she ever lived in the East
Not exactly _in_ the East
not what you would call
_living_ there. The fact is
this dinner _wasn't_ cooked by her. She -- she was obliged to go away
quite suddenly. So the dinner was all sent in by -- by a sort of
contractor, you know. He supplies the whole thing, waiters and all
I was thinking
that for a bachelor -- an _engaged_
bachelor -- you seemed to maintain rather a large establishment
Oh, they're only here for the evening, sir
Capital
fellows -- more picturesque than the local greengrocer -- and they don't
breathe on the top of your head
They're perfect dears, Horace
only -- well, just a
_little_ creepy-crawly to look at
It would ill become me to criticise the style and method of our
entertainment
otherwise I might be
tempted to observe that it scarcely showed that regard for economy which
I should have
Now, Anthony
don't let us have any fault-finding.
I'm sure Horace has done it all delightfully -- yes, delightfully; and
even if he _has_ been just a little extravagant, it's not as if he was
obliged to be as economical _now_, you know
My dear
I have yet to learn that the prospect of
an increased income in the remote future is any justification for
reckless profusion in the present
If you only knew
you wouldn't call it profusion.
It -- it's not at all the dinner I meant it to be, and I'm afraid it
wasn't particularly nice -- but it's certainly not expensive
Expensive is, of course, a very relative term. But I think I have the
right to ask whether this is the footing on which you propose to begin
your married life
These are not bad -- really not bad at all
Where did you manage to pick them up
I didn't
they're provided by the -- the person who
supplies the dinner
Can you give me his address
because really, you know, these things are probably antiques -- much too
good to be used for business purposes
I'm wrong
these particular things are -- are lent
by an eccentric Oriental gentleman, as a great favour
Do I know him? Is he a collector of such things
You wouldn't have met him; he -- he's lived a very retired life of late
I should very much like to see his collection. If you could give me a
letter of introduction
No
it wouldn't be any use.
His collection is never shown. He -- he's a most peculiar man. And just
now he's abroad
Ah! pardon me if I've been indiscreet; but I concluded from what you
said that this -- ah -- banquet was furnished by a professional caterer
Oh, the banquet? Yes, _that_ came from the Stores
The -- the Oriental Cookery Department. They've just
started it, you know; so -- so I thought I'd give them a trial. But it's
not what I call properly organised yet
Ha
so we're to have our coffee and what not over there, hey?... Well, my
boy, I shan't be sorry, I confess, to have something to lean my back
against -- and a cigar, a mild cigar, will -- ah -- aid digestion. You _do_
smoke here
Smoke
Why, of course! All over the place. Here
just bring coffee and cigars, will you
Coffee
you must know what coffee is. And cigarettes.
Well, _chibouks_, then --'hubble-bubbles'-- if that's what you call them
It certainly is a most unusual type of brassware
as unique in its way as the silver ewer and basin; and, as you
thought, there does seem to be something resembling an inscription on
the cap, though in this dim light it is almost impossible to be sure
What's this? What's this
some fresh surprise in store
for us
What a very extraordinary noise
surely they can't
mean it for music
Yes, they do
it -- it's really more harmonious than it
sounds -- you have to get accustomed to the -- er -- notation. When you do,
it's rather soothing than otherwise
I dare say
And do _they_ come from the Stores,
too
No
they don't; they
come from -- the Arab Encampment at Earl's Court -- parties and _fetes_
attended, you know. But they play _here_ for nothing; they -- they want to
get their name known, you see; very deserving and respectable set of
fellows
My dear Horace
if they expect to get
engagements for parties and so on, they really ought to try and learn a
tune of _some_ sort
I understand, Horace
it's very naughty of you to
have gone to all this trouble and expense (for, of course, it _has_ cost
you a lot) just to please us; but, whatever, dad may say, I love you all
the better for doing it
And does this girl come from Earl's Court
Oh dear, no
I engaged _her_ at -- at Harrod's -- the
Entertainment Bureau. They told me there she was rather good -- struck out
a line of her own, don't you know. But perfectly correct; she -- she only
does this to support an invalid aunt
I should have thought there were other ways of supporting invalid
aunts
What is this young lady's name
Tinkler
Miss Clementine
Tinkler
But surely she is a foreigner
Mademoiselle, I ought to have said. And Tinkla -- with an 'a,' you know.
I believe her mother was of Arabian extraction -- but I really don't
know
I really _must_ put a stop to this
You're getting bored by all this, darling
so am I.
I'll tell them to go
Is this a usual feature in Miss Tinkla's entertainments, may I ask
I really don't know
I can't make out what
she's saying
If I understand her rightly
she is addressing
you as the 'light of her eyes and the vital spirit of her heart
Oh
she's quite mistaken, you know. It -- it's the
emotional artist temperament -- they don't _mean_ anything by it. My -- my
dear young lady
you've danced most delightfully, and I'm
sure we're all most deeply indebted to you; but we won't detain you any
longer. Professor
_will_ you
kindly explain to them in Arabic that I should be obliged by their going
at once
I am so sorry
it's not at all the kind of entertainment
one would expect from a place like Whiteley's
By no means
but I understood you to say Miss
Tinkla was recommended to you by Harrod's
Very likely, sir
but that doesn't affect the case. I
shouldn't expect it from _them_
Probably they don't know how shamelessly that young person conducts
herself
And I think it only right that they should
be told
I shall complain, of course
I shall put it very
strongly
A protest would have more weight coming from a woman
and, as a shareholder in the company, I shall feel bound
No, I wouldn't
in fact, you mustn't. For, now I come to
think of it, she didn't come from Harrod's, after all, or Whiteley's
either
Then perhaps you will be good enough to inform us where she _did_ come
from
I would if I knew
but I don't
What
do you mean to say you can't
account for the existence of a dancing-girl who -- in my daughter's
presence -- kisses your hand and addresses you by endearing epithets
Oriental metaphor
She was a little overstrung. Of
course, if I had had any idea she would make such a scene as that ----
Sylvia
_you_ don't doubt me
No, Horace
I'm sure you must have _some_
explanation -- only I do think it would be better if you gave it
If I _told_ you the truth
you would none of you
believe me
Then you admit
that hitherto you have _not_
been telling the truth
Not as invariably as I could have wished
So I suspected. Then, unless you can bring yourself to be perfectly
candid, you can hardly wonder at our asking you to consider your
engagement as broken off
Broken off
Sylvia, you won't give me up! You _know_ I
wouldn't do anything unworthy of you
I'm certain that you can't have done anything which would make me love
you one bit the less if I knew it. So why not be quite open with us
Because, darling
I'm in such a fix that it would only
make matters worse
In that case
and as it is already rather late,
perhaps you will allow one of your numerous retinue to call a
four-wheeler
I'm afraid all the servants have left
If you will wait here, I'll go out and
fetch a cab
There is no occasion to trouble you
my wife and
daughter have already got their things on, and we will walk until we
find a cab. Now, Mr. Ventimore, we will bid you good-night and good-bye.
For, after what has happened, you will, I trust, have the good taste to
discontinue your visits and make no attempt to see Sylvia again
Upon my honour
I have done nothing to warrant you
in shutting your doors against me
I am unable to agree with you. I have never thoroughly approved of your
engagement, because, as I told you at the time, I suspected you of
recklessness in money matters. Even in accepting your invitation
to-night I warned you, as you may remember, not to make the occasion an
excuse for foolish extravagance. I come here, and find you in apartments
furnished and decorated (as you informed us) by yourself, and on a scale
which would be prodigal in a millionaire. You have a suite of retainers
which (except for their nationality and imperfect discipline) a prince
might envy. You provide a banquet of -- hem!-- delicacies which must have
cost you infinite trouble and unlimited expense -- this, after I had
expressly stipulated for a quiet family dinner! Not content with that,
you procure for our diversion Arab music and dancing of a -- of a highly
recondite character. I should be unworthy of the name of father, sir,
if I were to entrust my only daughter's happiness to a young man with so
little common sense, so little self-restraint. And she will understand
my motives and obey my wishes
You're right, Professor, according to your lights
And yet -- confound it all!-- you're utterly wrong, too
Oh, Horace
if you had only listened to dad, and not
gone to all this foolish, foolish expense, we might have been so happy
But I have gone to no expense. All this hasn't cost me a penny
Ah, there _is_ some mystery! Horace, if you love me, you will
explain -- here, now, before it's too late
My darling
I would, like a shot, if I thought it
would be of the least use
Hitherto
you cannot be said to have been happy
in your explanations -- and I should advise you not to venture on any
more. Good-night, once more. I only wish it were possible, without
needless irony, to make the customary acknowledgments for a pleasant
evening
I'll try it
I
can't and won't stand this
Professor
one moment. On
second thoughts, I _will_ tell you my secret, if you will promise me a
patient hearing
The pavement is hardly the place for confidences
and, if it were, your costume is calculated to attract more
remark than is desirable. My wife and daughter have gone on -- if you will
permit me, I will overtake them -- I shall be at home to-morrow morning,
should you wish to see me
No -- to-night, to-night
I can't sleep in that infernal
place with this on my mind. Put Mrs. Futvoye and Sylvia into a cab,
Professor, and come back. It's not late, and I won't keep you long -- but
for Heaven's sake, let me tell you my story at once
Very well
go into the house and I
will rejoin you presently. Only remember
that I shall
accept no statement without the fullest proof. Otherwise you will merely
be wasting your time and mine
Proof
The only decent proof I could produce would be old Fakrash, and he's
not likely to turn up again -- especially now I want him
Now, young man
I can give
you just ten minutes to tell your story in, so let me beg you to make it
as brief and as comprehensible as you can
And that's your story
That's my story, sir
And I hope it has altered your
opinion of me
It has
it has indeed.
Yours is a sad case -- a very sad case
It's rather awkward, isn't it? But I don't mind so long as you
understand. And you'll tell Sylvia -- as much as you think proper
Yes -- yes; I must tell Sylvia
And I may go on seeing her as usual
Well -- will you be guided by my advice -- the advice of one who has lived
more than double your years
Certainly
Then, if I were you, I should go away at once, for a complete change of
air and scene
That's impossible, sir -- you forget my work
Never mind your work, my boy: leave it for a while, try a sea-voyage,
go round the world, get quite away from these associations
But I might come across the Jinnee again
_he's_
travelling, as I told you
Yes, yes, to be sure. Still, I should go away. Consult any doctor, and
he'll tell you the same thing
Consult any ---- Good God
I see what it is -- you think
I'm mad
No, no, my dear boy
not mad -- nothing
of the sort; perhaps your mental equilibrium is just a trifle -- it's
quite intelligible. You see, the sudden turn in your professional
prospects, coupled with your engagement to Sylvia -- I've known stronger
minds than yours thrown off their balance -- temporarily, of course, quite
temporarily -- by less than that
You believe I am suffering from delusions
I don't say that. I think you may see ordinary things in a distorted
light
Anyhow, you don't believe there really was a Jinnee inside that
bottle
Remember, you yourself assured me at the time you opened it that you
found nothing whatever inside it. Isn't it more credible that you were
right then than that you should be right now
Well
you saw all those black slaves; you ate, or tried
to eat, that unutterably beastly banquet; you heard that music -- and then
there was the dancing-girl. And this hall we're in, this robe I've got
on -- are _they_ delusions? Because if they are, I'm afraid you will have
to admit that _you're_ mad too
Ingeniously put
I fear it is unwise to argue
with you. Still, I will venture to assert that a strong imagination like
yours, over-heated and saturated with Oriental ideas -- to which I fear I
may have contributed -- is not incapable of unconsciously assisting in its
own deception. In other words, I think that you may have provided all
this yourself from various quarters without any clear recollection of
the fact
That's very scientific and satisfactory as far as it goes, my dear
Professor
but there's one piece of evidence which may
upset your theory -- and that's this brass bottle
If your reasoning powers were in their normal condition
you would see that the mere production of
an empty bottle can be no proof of what it contained -- or, for that
matter, that it ever contained anything at all
Oh, I see _that_
but _this_ bottle has a stopper with
what you yourself admit to be an inscription of some sort. Suppose that
inscription confirms my story -- what then? All I ask you to do is to make
it out for yourself before you decide that I'm either a liar or a
lunatic
I warn you
that if you are trusting to my being
unable to decipher the inscription, you are deceiving yourself. You
represent that this bottle belongs to the period of Solomon -- that is,
about a thousand years B.C. Probably you are not aware that the earliest
specimens of Oriental metal-work in existence are not older than the
tenth century of our era. But, granting that it is as old as you allege,
I shall certainly be able to read any inscription there may be on it. I
have made out clay tablets in Cuneiform which were certainly written a
thousand years before Solomon's time
So much the better
I'm as certain as I can be that,
whatever is written on that lid -- whether it's Phoenician, or Cuneiform,
or anything else -- must have some reference to a Jinnee confined in the
bottle, or at least bear the seal of Solomon. But there the thing
is -- examine it for yourself
Not now
it's too late, and the light here is not
strong enough. But I'll tell you what I will do. I'll take this stopper
thing home with me, and examine it carefully to-morrow -- on one
condition
You have only to name it
My condition is, that if I, and one or two other Orientalists to whom I
may submit it, come to the conclusion that there is no real inscription
at all -- or, if any, that a date and meaning must be assigned to it
totally inconsistent with your story -- you will accept our finding and
acknowledge that you have been under a delusion, and dismiss the whole
affair from your mind
Oh, I don't mind agreeing to _that_
particularly as
it's my only chance
Very well, then
you may depend upon hearing from me in a day or
two. Meantime, my boy
why not
try a short bicycle tour somewhere, hey? You're a cyclist, I
know -- anything but allow yourself to dwell on Oriental subjects
It's not so easy to avoid dwelling on them as you think
And I fancy, Professor, that -- whether you
like it or not -- you'll have to believe in that Jinnee of mine sooner or
later
I can scarcely conceive
any degree of evidence which could succeed in
convincing me that your brass bottle had ever contained an Arabian
Jinnee. However, I shall endeavour to preserve an open mind on the
subject. Good evening to you
May thy head long survive
You're very good
but I don't think any
head can survive this sort of thing long
Art thou content with this dwelling I have provided for thee
It is far below thy deserts
And were
thy friends amazed at the manner of their entertainment
They were
A sure method of preserving friends is to feast them with liberality
You were kind
enough to provide my friends with such a feast
that they'll
never come _here_ again
How so? Were not the meats choice and abounding in fatness? Was not the
wine sweet, and the sherbet like unto perfumed snow
Oh, everything was -- er -- as nice as possible
Couldn't
have been better
Yet thou sayest that thy friends will return no more -- for what reason
Well, you see
there's such a thing
as doing people _too_ well. I mean, it isn't everybody that appreciates
Arabian cooking. But they might have stood that. It was the dancing-girl
that did for me
I commanded that a houri, lovelier than the full moon, and graceful as
a young gazelle, should appear for the delight of thy guests
She came
Acquaint me with that which hath occurred -- for I perceive plainly that
something hath fallen out contrary to thy desires
Well
if it had been a bachelor party, there would have
been no harm in the houri; but, as it happened, two of my guests were
ladies, and they -- well, they not unnaturally put a wrong construction on
it all
Verily
thy words are totally incomprehensible
to me
I don't know what the custom may be in Arabia
but with
us it is not usual for a man to engage a houri to dance after dinner to
amuse the lady he is proposing to marry. It's the kind of attention
she'd be most unlikely to appreciate.

"Then was one of thy guests the damsel whom thou art seeking to marry
She was
and the other two were her father and mother.
From which you may imagine that it was not altogether agreeable for me
when your gazelle threw herself at my feet and hugged my knees and
declared that I was the light of her eyes. Of course, it all meant
nothing -- it's probably the conventional behaviour for a gazelle, and I'm
not reflecting upon her in the least. But, in the circumstances, it
_was_ compromising
I thought
that thou assuredst me that thou wast not
contracted to any damsel
I think I only said that there was no one whom I would trouble you to
procure as a wife for me
I certainly was
engaged -- though, after this evening, my engagement is at an end -- unless
... that reminds me, do you happen to know whether there really _was_ an
inscription on the seal of your bottle, and what it said
I know naught of any inscription
bring me the seal
that I may see it
I haven't got it by me at this moment
I lent it to my
friend -- the father of this young lady I told you of. You see, Mr.
Fakrash, you got me into -- I mean, I was in such a hole over this affair
that I was obliged to make a clean breast of it to him. And he wouldn't
believe it, so it struck me that there might be an inscription of some
sort on the seal, saying who you were, and why Solomon had you confined
in the bottle. Then the Professor would be obliged to admit that there's
something in my story
Truly, I wonder at thee and at the smallness of thy penetration
for if there were indeed any writing upon this seal,
it is not possible that one of thy race should be able to decipher it
Oh, I beg your pardon
Professor Futvoye is an Oriental
scholar; he can make out any inscription, no matter how many thousands
of years old it may be. If anything's there, he'll decipher it. The
question is whether anything _is_ there
O thou of little sense and breeding
how
camest thou to deliver the bottle in which I was confined into the hands
of this learned man
My
dear sir
I did not suppose you could have any further use
for it. And, as a matter of fact, I didn't give Professor Futvoye the
bottle -- which is over there in the corner -- but merely the stopper. I
wish you wouldn't tower over me like that -- it gives me a crick in the
neck to talk to you. Why on earth should you make such a fuss about my
lending the seal; what possible difference can it make to you even if it
does confirm my story? And it's of immense importance to _me_ that the
Professor should believe I told the truth
I spoke in haste
The bottle truly is of no value; and as for the
stopper, since it is but lent, it is no great matter. If there be any
legend upon the seal, perchance this learned man of whom thou speakest
will by this time have deciphered it
No
he won't tackle it till to-morrow. And it's as
likely as not that when he does he won't find any reference to
_you_ -- and I shall be up a taller tree than ever
Art thou so desirous that he should receive proof that thy story is
true
Why, of course I am! Haven't I been saying so all this time
Who can satisfy him so surely as I
You
Do you mean to say you really would? Mr. Fakrash,
you _are_ an old brick! That would be the very thing
There is naught
that I would
not do to promote thy welfare, for thou hast rendered me inestimable
service. Acquaint me therefore with the abode of this sage, and I will
present myself before him, and if haply he should find no inscription
upon the seal, or its purport should be hidden from him, then will I
convince him that thou hast spoken the truth and no lie
Only don't
drop in on him to-night, you know
or
you might startle him. Call any time after breakfast to-morrow, and
you'll find him in
To-night
I return to pursue my search after Suleyman
(on whom be peace!). For not yet have I found him
If you _will_ try to do so many things at once
I don't
see how you can expect much result
At Nineveh they knew him not -- for where I left a city I found but a
heap of ruins, tenanted by owls and bats
_They say the lion and the lizard keep the Courts_
I was afraid you might be disappointed with
Nineveh myself. Why not run over to Sheba? You might hear of him there
Seba of El-Yemen -- the country of Bilkees, the Queen beloved of
Suleyman
It is an excellent suggestion, and I will
follow it without delay
But you won't forget to look in on Professor Futvoye to-morrow, will
you
Assuredly I will not. And now, ere I depart, tell me if there be any
other service I may render thee
There _is_ just one
only I'm afraid
you'll be offended if I mention it
On the head and the eye be thy commands
for
whatsoever thou desirest shall be accomplished, provided that it lie
within my power to perform it
Well
if you're sure you don't mind, I'll tell you.
You've transformed this house into a wonderful place, more like the
Alhambra -- I don't mean the one in Leicester Square -- than a London
lodging-house. But then I am only a lodger here, and the people the
house belongs to -- excellent people in their way -- would very much rather
have the house as it was. They have a sort of idea that they won't be
able to let these rooms as easily as the others
Base and sordid dogs
Possibly
it's narrow-minded of them -- but that's the way
they look at it. They've actually left rather than stay here. And it's
_their_ house -- not mine
If they abandon this dwelling, thou wilt remain in the more secure
possession
Oh, _shall_ I, though? They'll go to law and have me turned out, and I
shall have to pay ruinous damages into the bargain. So, you see, what
you intended as a kindness will only bring me bad luck
Come -- without more words -- to the statement of thy request
for I am in haste
All I want you to do
is to put everything here back to what
it was before. It won't take you a minute
Of a truth
to bestow a favour upon thee is but a
thankless undertaking, for not once, but twice, hast thou rejected my
benefits -- and now, behold, I am at a loss to devise means to gratify
thee
I know I've abused your good nature
but if you'll only
do this, and then convince the Professor that my story is true, I shall
be more than satisfied. I'll never ask another favour of you
My benevolence towards thee hath no bounds -- as thou shalt see; and I
can deny thee nothing, for truly thou art a worthy and temperate young
man. Farewell, then, and be it according to thy desire
I'm sure, Mr. Ventimore, sir
I don't know
what you must have thought of me and Rapkin last night, leaving the
house like we did
It was extremely inconvenient
and not at all what I
should have expected from you. But possibly you had some reason for it
Why, sir
the fact is, something come over me, and come over Rapkin,
as we couldn't stop here another minute not if it was ever so
Ah
restlessness -- eh, Mrs. Rapkin?
Awkward that it should come on just then, though, wasn't it
It was the look of the place, somehow
If you'll
believe me, sir, it was all changed like -- nothing in it the same from
top to bottom
Really
I don't notice any difference myself
No more don't I, sir, not by daylight; but last night it was all domes
and harches and marble fountings let into the floor, with parties
moving about downstairs all silent and as black as your hat -- which
Rapkin saw them as well as what I did
From the state your husband was in last night
I should
say he was capable of seeing anything -- and double of most things
I won't deny, sir, that Rapkin mayn't have been quite hisself, as a
very little upsets him after he's spent an afternoon studying the papers
and what-not at the libery. But I see the niggers too, Mr. Ventimore,
and no one can say _I_ ever take more than is good for me
I don't suggest that for a moment, Mrs. Rapkin
only, if
the house was as you describe last night, how do you account for its
being all right this morning
It's not for me to say, sir
but, if I was
to give my opinion, it would be as them parties as called 'ere on camels
the other day was at the bottom of it
I shouldn't wonder if you were right, Mrs. Rapkin
you see, you had been exerting yourself over the cooking, and
no doubt were in an over-excited state, and, as you say, those camels
had taken hold of your imagination until you were ready to see anything
that Rapkin saw, and _he_ was ready to see anything _you_ did. It's not
at all uncommon. Scientific people, I believe, call it 'Collective
Hallucination
Law, sir
you don't mean to say I had _that_? I was always fanciful
from a girl, and could see things in coffee-grounds as nobody else
could -- but I never was took like that before. And to think of me leaving
my dinner half cooked, and you expecting your young lady and her pa and
ma! Well, _there_, now, I _am_ sorry. Whatever did you do, sir
We managed to get food of sorts from somewhere
but it
was most uncomfortable for me, and I trust, Mrs. Rapkin -- I sincerely
trust that it will not occur again
That I'll answer for it shan't, sir. And you won't take no notice to
Rapkin, sir, will you? Though it was his seein' the niggers and that as
put it into my 'ed; but I 'ave spoke to him pretty severe already, and
he's truly sorry and ashamed for forgetting hisself as he did
Very well, Mrs. Rapkin
we will understand that last
night's -- hem -- rather painful experience is not to be alluded to
again -- on either side
There's one more thing, sir, I wished for to speak to you about
that great brass vawse as you bought at an oction some
time back. I dunno if you remember it
I remember it
Well, what about it
Why, sir, I found it in the coal-cellar this morning, and I thought I'd
ask if that was where you wished it kep' in future. For, though no
amount o' polish could make it what I call a tasty thing, it's neither
horniment nor yet useful where it is at present
Oh
Put it wherever you please, Mrs. Rapkin; do whatever you like
with it -- so long as I don't see the thing again
Very good, sir; I on'y thought I'd ask the question
Ninety-nine Jinn out of a hundred
would have turned
nasty on finding benefit after benefit 'declined with thanks.' But one
good point in Fakrash is that he _does_ take a hint in good part, and,
as soon as he can be made to see where he's wrong, he's always ready to
set things right. And he thoroughly understands now that these Oriental
dodges of his won't do nowadays, and that when people see a penniless
man suddenly wallowing in riches they naturally want to know how he came
by them. I don't suppose he will trouble me much in future. If he should
look in now and then, I must put up with it. Perhaps, if I suggested it,
he wouldn't mind coming in some form that would look less outlandish. If
he would get himself up as a banker, or a bishop -- the Bishop of Bagdad,
say -- I shouldn't care how often he called. Only, I can't have him coming
down the chimney in either capacity. But he'll see that himself. And
he's done me one real service -- I mustn't let myself forget that. He sent
me old Wackerbath. By the way, I wonder if he's seen my designs yet, and
what he thinks of them
I've got nothing doing just now
so I thought I'd come in
and have a squint at those plans of yours, if they're forward enough to
be seen yet
Phew
that's sharp work, isn't it
I don't know. I've been sticking hard at it for over a fortnight
Well, you might have given me a chance of seeing what you've made of
it. I let you see all _my_ work
To tell you the honest truth, old fellow, I wasn't at all sure you'd
like it, and I was afraid you'd put me out of conceit with what I'd
done, and Wackerbath was in a frantic hurry to have the plans -- so there
it was
And do you think he'll be satisfied with them
He ought to be. I don't like to be cock-sure, but I believe -- I really
do believe -- that I've given him rather more than he expected. It's going
to be a devilish good house, though I say it myself
Something new-fangled and fantastic, eh? Well, he mayn't care about it,
you know. When you've had my experience, you'll realise that a client is
a rum bird to satisfy
I shall satisfy _my_ old bird
He'll have a cage
he can hop about in to his heart's content
You're a clever chap enough
but to carry a big job like
this through you want one thing -- and that's ballast
Not while you heave yours at my head! Come, old fellow, you aren't
really riled because I sent off those plans without showing them to you?
I shall soon have them back, and then you can pitch into 'em as much as
you please. Seriously, though, I shall want all the help you can spare
when I come to the completed designs
Um
you've got along very well alone so far -- at least,
by your own account; so I dare say you'll be able to manage without me
to the end. Only, you know
you haven't
won your spurs yet. A fellow isn't necessarily a Gilbert Scott, or a
Norman Shaw, or a Waterhouse just because he happens to get a
sixty-thousand pound job the first go off
Poor old Beevor
I've put his back up.
I might just as well have shown him the plans, after all; it wouldn't
have hurt me and it would have pleased _him_. Never mind, I'll make my
peace with him after lunch. I'll ask him to give me his idea for a -- no,
hang it all, even friendship has its limits
My dear sir
I have already told you that it is no
affair of mine
But I ask you, sir, as a brother architect
whether you consider it professional or reasonable
As a brother architect
I would rather be excused from giving an opinion.... Ah, here is Mr.
Ventimore himself
So, sir
So, sir
There appears to have been some misunderstanding, my dear Ventimore
I think I'd better leave you and this
gentleman to talk it over quietly
Quietly
_quietly
I've no idea what you are so excited about, sir
Perhaps
you will explain
Explain
why -- no, if I speak just now, I shall
be ill: _you_ tell him
I'm not in possession of all the facts
but,
so far as I can gather, this gentleman thinks that, considering the
importance of the work he intrusted to your hands, you have given less
time to it than he might have expected. As I have told him, that is a
matter which does not concern me, and which he must discuss with you
Well, Mr. Wackerbath
so you're
disappointed with the house
Disappointed
I am disgusted, sir,
disgusted
This is plain speaking with a vengeance
I'm sorry you're
dissatisfied. I did my best to carry out your instructions
Oh, you did
That's what you call -- but go
on, sir, _go_ on
I got it done as quickly as possible
because I
understood you wished no time to be lost
No one can accuse you of dawdling over it. What I should like to know
is how the devil you managed to get it done in the time
I worked incessantly all day and every day
That's how I
managed it -- and this is all the thanks I get for it
Thanks
You -- you insolent young
charlatan; you expect thanks
Now look here, Mr. Wackerbath
I'm not accustomed to being treated like this,
and I don't intend to submit to it. Just tell me -- in as moderate
language as you can command -- what you object to
I object to the whole damned thing, sir! I mean, I repudiate the entire
concern. It's the work of a raving lunatic -- a place that no English
gentleman, sir, with any self-respect or -- ah!-- consideration for his
reputation and position in the county, could consent to occupy for a
single hour
Oh
in that case it is useless, of
course, to suggest any modifications
Absolutely
Very well, then; there's no more to be said
You will
have no difficulty in finding an architect who will be more successful
in realising your intentions. Mr. Beevor, the gentleman you met just
now
would probably be just your
man. Of course I retire altogether. And really, if any one is the
sufferer over this, I fancy it's myself. I can't see how you are any the
worse
Not any the worse
when the infernal place is
built
Built
I tell you, sir, I saw it with my own eyes driving to the station this
morning; my coachman and footman saw it; my wife saw it -- damn it, sir,
we _all_ saw it
the easiest
of affairs
Well, sir
I presume it
is you whom I have to thank for improving my land by erecting this
precious palace on it
I -- I
Greeting to you
If I mistake not
thou art the merchant for whom my
son here
undertook
to construct a mansion
I am
Have I the pleasure
of addressing Mr. Ventimore, senior
No, no
no relation. He's a sort of informal partner
Hast thou not found him an architect of divine gifts
Is not the palace that he hath raised for
thee by his transcendent accomplishments a marvel of beauty and
stateliness, and one that Sultans might envy
No, sir
since you ask my
opinion, it's nothing of the sort! It's a ridiculous tom-fool cross
between the palm-house at Kew and the Brighton Pavilion! There's no
billiard-room, and not a decent bedroom in the house. I've been all over
it, so I ought to know; and as for drainage, there isn't a sign of it.
And he has the brass -- ah, I should say, the unblushing effrontery -- to
call that a country house
Let me explain, Mr. Wackerbath
Personally I've had nothing
to do with this. This gentleman, wishing to spare me the trouble, has
taken upon himself to build your house for you, without consulting
either of us, and, from what I know of his powers in the direction, I've
no doubt that -- that it's a devilish fine place, in its way. Anyhow, we
make no charge for it -- he presents it to you as a free gift. Why not
accept it as such and make the best of it
Make the best of it
Stand by and see the
best site in three counties defaced by a jimcrack Moorish nightmare like
that! Why, they'll call it 'Wackerbath's Folly,' sir. I shall be the
laughing-stock of the neighbourhood. I can't live in the beastly
building. I couldn't afford to keep it up, and I won't have it cumbering
my land. Do you hear? _I won't!_ I'll go to law, cost me what it may,
and compel you and your Arabian friends there to pull the thing down.
I'll take the case up to the House of Lords, if necessary, and fight you
as long as I can stand
As long as thou canst stand
That is a long
time truly, O thou litigious one!... On all fours, ungrateful dog that
thou art
and
crawl henceforth for the remainder of thy days. I, Fakrash-el-Aamash,
command thee
How dare you, sir
how _dare_ you, I say? Are you aware that I could summon
you for this? Let me up. I _insist_ upon getting up
O contemptible in aspect
Begone to thy kennel
I won't! I can't
How do you expect
me -- me!-- to cross Westminster Bridge on all fours? What will the
officials think at Waterloo, where I have been known and respected for
years? How am I to face my family in -- in this position? Do, for mercy's
sake, let me get up
Mr. Fakrash
this has gone far
enough. Unless you stop tormenting this unfortunate gentleman, I've done
with you
Never
He hath dared to abuse my palace, which is far
too sumptuous a dwelling for such a son of a burnt dog as he. Therefore,
I will make his abode to be in the dust for ever
But I _don't_ find fault
You -- you
entirely misunderstood the -- the few comments I ventured to make. It's a
capital mansion, handsome, and yet 'homey,' too. I'll never say another
word against it. I'll -- yes, I'll _live_ in it -- if only you'll let me
up
Do as he asks you
or I swear I'll never
speak to you again
Thou art the arbiter of this matter
And if I yield,
it is at thy intercession, and not his. Rise then
depart, and show us the breadth of thy shoulders
Oh,
Ventimore
did I leave my ----?... I beg your pardon. I
thought you were alone again
Don't go, sir
I -- I should
like you to know that, after talking things quietly over with your
friend Mr. Ventimore and his partner here, I am thoroughly convinced
that my objections were quite untenable. I retract all I said.
The house is -- ah -- admirably planned: _most_ convenient, roomy,
and -- ah -- unconventional. The -- the entire freedom from all sanitary
appliances is a particular recommendation. In short, I am more than
satisfied. Pray forget anything I may have said which might be taken to
imply the contrary.... Gentlemen, good afternoon
I say
you never
told me you had gone into partnership
He's not a regular partner
he does odd things
for me occasionally, that's all
He soon managed to smooth your client down
Yes
he's an Oriental, you see, and, he has a -- a very
persuasive manner. Would you like to be introduced
If it's all the same to you
I'd rather be excused. To tell you the truth, old fellow, I don't
altogether fancy the looks of him, and it's my opinion
that
the less you have to do with him the better. He strikes me as a
wrong'un, old man
No, no
eccentric, that's all -- you don't understand
him
Receive news
Suleyman, the son of Daood, sleeps with his fathers
I know
So does Queen Anne
I have not heard of her. But art thou not astounded, then, by my
tidings
I have matters nearer home to think about
I must
say, Mr. Fakrash, you have landed me in a pretty mess
Explain thyself more fully, for I comprehend thee not
Why on earth
couldn't you let me build that house my
own way
Did I not hear thee with my own ears lament thy inability to perform
the task? Thereupon, I determined that no disgrace should fall upon thee
by reason of such incompetence, since I myself would erect a palace so
splendid that it should cause thy name to live for ever. And, behold, it
is done
It is
And so am I. I don't want to reproach you. I
quite feel that you have acted with the best intentions; but, oh, hang
it all! _can't_ you see that you've absolutely wrecked my career as an
architect
That is a thing that cannot be
seeing that thou
hast all the credit
The credit! This is England, not Arabia. What credit can I gain from
being supposed to be the architect of an Oriental pavilion, which might
be all very well for Haroun-al-Raschid, but I can assure you is
preposterous as a home for an average Briton
Yet that overfed hound
expressed much
gratification therewith
Naturally, after he had found that he could not give a candid opinion
except on all-fours. A valuable testimonial, that! And how do you
suppose I can take his money? No, Mr. Fakrash, if I have to go on
all-fours myself for it, I must say, and I will say, that you've made a
most frightful muddle of it
Acquaint me with thy wishes
for thou
knowest that I can refuse thee naught
Then
couldn't you remove that palace -- dissipate
it into space or something
Verily
to do good acts unto
such as thee is but wasted time, for thou givest me no peace till they
are undone
This is the last time
I promise never to ask you for
anything again
Not for the first time hast thou made such a promise
And save for the magnitude of thy service unto me, I would not hearken
to this caprice of thine, nor wilt thou find me so indulgent on another
occasion. But for this once
thy desire is granted unto thee.
Of the palace and all that is therein there remaineth no trace
Another surprise for poor old Wackerbath
but a
pleasant one this time. My dear Mr. Fakrash
I really
can't say how grateful I am to you. And now -- I hate bothering you like
this, but if you _could_ manage to look in on Professor Futvoye
What
yet another request? Already
Well, you promised you'd do that before, you know
For that matter
I have already fulfilled my
promise
You have
And does he believe now that it's all
true about that bottle
When I left him
all his doubts were removed
By Jove, you _are_ a trump
And do you think, if I went to him now, I
should find him the same as usual
Nay
that is
more than I can promise thee
But why
if he knows all
Because
because, in order
to overcome his unbelief, it was necessary to transform him into a
one-eyed mule of hideous appearance
_What
Fakrash
Mr. Fakrash! Come back! Do you hear? I
_must_ speak to you
Is the Professor out
Not exactly out, sir
but particularly engaged,
working hard in his study, and not to be disturbed on no account
Then I will see Miss Futvoye
Miss Sylvia is with the master, sir
but if you'll
come into the drawing-room I'll let Mrs. Futvoye know you are here
I hardly thought we should see you to-day
but perhaps you came to offer some explanation of the
extraordinary manner in which you thought fit to entertain us last
night? If so
The fact is
I came because I was
rather anxious about the Professor.

"About my husband
He is -- as well as could be expected. Why should you
suppose otherwise
I fancied perhaps that -- that he mightn't be quite himself to-day
I see
you were afraid
that all those foreign dishes might not have agreed with him.
But -- except that he is a little irritable this afternoon -- he is much as
usual
I'm delighted to hear it
Do you
think he would see me for a moment
Great heavens, no
I
mean
that, after what took place last night,
Anthony -- my husband -- very properly feels that an interview would be too
painful
But when we parted he was perfectly friendly
I can only say
that you would find him
considerably altered now
At least, I may see Sylvia
No
I really can't have Sylvia disturbed just now.
She is very busy, helping her father. Anthony has to read a paper at one
of his societies to-morrow night, and she is writing it out from his
dictation
Mother
do come
to papa, quick! He has just begun kicking again, and I can't manage him
alone.... Oh, _you_ here
Why do you come here now, Horace? Please, _please_ go away! Papa
is rather unwell -- nothing serious, only -- oh, _do_ go away
Darling
I know
all -- do you understand?-- _all_
Mamma
have you told him -- already? When
we settled that even Horace wasn't to know till -- till papa recovers
I have told him nothing, my dear
He can't
possibly know, unless -- but no, that isn't possible. And, after all
I don't know why we
should make any mystery about a mere attack of gout. But I had better go
and see if your father wants anything
I dare say you don't
know how dreadfully people kick when they've got gout
Oh yes, I do
at least, I can guess
Especially when it's in both legs
Or
in all four
Ah, you _do_ know
Then it's all the more horrid of you
to come
Dearest
is not this just the time when my place should
be near you -- and him
Not near papa, Horace
it wouldn't be at all
safe
Do you really think I have any fear for myself
Are you sure you quite know -- what he is like now
I understand
that a casual observer, who didn't know your father, might
mistake him, at first sight, for -- for some sort of quadruped
He's a mule
I could bear it
better if he had been a _nice_ mule.... B -- but he isn't
Whatever he may be
nothing can alter my profound respect for
him. And you must let me see him, Sylvia; because I fully believe I
shall be able to cheer him up
If you imagine you can persuade him to -- to laugh it off
I wasn't proposing to try to make him see the humorous side of his
situation
I trust I have more tact than
that. But he may be glad to know that, at the worst, it is only a
temporary inconvenience. I'll take care that he's all right again before
very long
If you can speak like that
it must have been _you_
who -- no, I can't believe it -- that would be too horrible
I who did _what_, Sylvia? Weren't you there when -- when it happened
No
I was only told of it afterwards. Mother heard papa
talking loudly in his study this morning, as if he was angry with
somebody, and at last she grew so uneasy she couldn't bear it any
longer, and went in to see what was the matter with him. Dad was quite
alone and looked as usual, only a little excited; and then, without the
slightest warning, just as she entered the room, he -- he changed slowly
into a mule before her eyes! Anybody but mamma would have lost her head
and roused the whole house
Thank Heaven she didn't
That was what I was
most afraid of
Then -- oh, Horace, it _was_ you! It's no use denying it. I feel more
certain of it every moment
Now, Sylvia
what could have put such an idea as that into your
head
I don't know
Several things last night. No one who
was really nice, and like everybody else, would live in such queer rooms
like those, and dine on cushions, with dreadful black slaves, and -- and
dancing-girls and things. You pretended you were quite poor
So I am, darling. And as for my rooms, and -- and the rest, they're all
gone, Sylvia. If you went to Vincent Square to-day, you wouldn't find a
trace of them
That only shows
But why should you play such a cruel,
and -- and ungentlemanly trick on poor dad? If you had ever really loved
me
But I do, Sylvia, you can't really believe me capable of such an
outrage! Look at me and tell me so
No, Horace
I don't believe _you_ did it. But I
believe you know who _did_. And you had better tell me at once
If you're quite sure you can stand it
I'll tell you
everything
But, of course, I never really thought it would be so awful as this
Horace, how _could_ you be so careless as to let a great
wicked thing like that escape out of its bottle
I had a notion it was a manuscript
till he came out.
But he isn't a great wicked thing, Sylvia. He's an amiable old Jinnee
enough. And he'd do anything for me. Nobody could be more grateful and
generous than he has been
Do you call it generous to change the poor, dear dad into a mule
That was an oversight
he meant no harm by it. In Arabia
they do these things -- or used to in his day. Not that that's much excuse
for him. Still, he's not so young as he was, and besides, being bottled
up for all those centuries must have narrowed him rather. You must try
and make allowances for him, darling
I shan't
unless he apologises to poor father, and puts
him right at once
Why, of course, he'll do that
I'll see
that he does. I don't mean to stand any more of his nonsense. I'm afraid
I've been just a little too slack for fear of hurting his feelings; but
this time he's gone too far, and I shall talk to him like a Dutch uncle.
He's always ready to do the right thing when he's once shown where he
has gone wrong -- only he takes such a lot of showing, poor old chap
But when do you think he'll -- do the right thing
Oh, as soon as I see him again
Yes; but when _will_ you see him again
That's more than I can say. He's away just now -- in China, or Peru, or
somewhere
Horace! Then he won't be back for months and months
Oh yes, he will. He can do the whole trip, _aller et retour_, you know,
in a few hours. He's an active old beggar for his age. In the meantime,
dearest, the chief thing is to keep up your father's spirits. So I think
I'd better ---- I was just telling Sylvia, Mrs. Futvoye
that I should like to see the Professor
at once
It's quite, _quite_ impossible
He's in such a
state that he's unable to see any one. You don't know how fractious gout
makes him
Dear Mrs. Futvoye
believe me, I know more than you
suppose
Yes, mother, dear
he knows everything -- _really_
everything. And perhaps it might do dad good to see him
Oh, dear me
I don't know _what_ to say. I really don't. If you had seen him plunge
at the mere suggestion of a doctor
Anthony, love
I've
brought Horace Ventimore to see you for a few moments, if he may
My dear Anthony
try to be calm. Think of the
servants downstairs. Horace is _so_ anxious to help
Believe me, sir
I would not disturb you like this
unless -- steady there, for Heaven's sake Professor, don't kick till
you've heard me out
Listen to me, sir
I'm not to
blame for this, and if you brain me, as you seem to be endeavouring to
do, you'll simply destroy the only living man who can get you out of
this
If, as I imagine, sir
you are, though
temporarily deprived of speech, perfectly capable of following an
argument, will you kindly signify it by raising your right ear
Now we can get on
First let me tell you that I
repudiate all responsibility for the proceedings of that infernal
Jinnee.... I wouldn't stamp like that -- you might go through the floor,
you know.... Now, if you will only exercise a little patience
You really _must_ keep cool, sir
your
nerves are naturally upset. If I might suggest a little champagne -- you
could manage it in -- in a bucket, and it would help you to pull yourself
together. A whisk of your -- er -- tail would imply consent
I have every hope, sir
that
before many hours you will be smiling -- pray don't prance like that, I
mean what I say -- smiling over what now seems to you, very justly, a most
annoying and serious catastrophe. I shall speak seriously to Fakrash
(the Jinnee, you know), and I am sure that, as soon as he realises what
a frightful blunder he has made, he will be the first to offer you every
reparation in his power. For, old foozle as he is, he's thoroughly
good-hearted
I think I understand him fairly well by this time, sir
and I'll answer for it that there's no real harm in him. I give you my
word of honour that, if you'll only remain quiet and leave everything to
me, you shall very soon be released from this absurd position. That's
all I came to tell you, and now I won't trouble you any longer. If you
_could_ bring yourself, as a sign that you bear me no ill-feeling, to
give me your -- your off-foreleg at parting, I
I'm
afraid
I'm afraid your husband is still a little sore with me
about this miserable business
I don't know what else you can expect
he can't help feeling -- as we all must and do, after what you
said just now -- that, but for you, this would never have happened
If you mean it was all through my attending that sale
you might remember that I only went there at the Professor's request.
You know that, Sylvia
Yes, Horace
but papa never asked you to buy a hideous
brass bottle with a nasty Genius in it. And any one with ordinary common
sense would have kept it properly corked
What, you against me too, Sylvia
No, Horace, never against you. I didn't mean to say what I did. Only it
_is_ such a relief to put the blame on somebody. I know, I _know_ you
feel it almost as much as we do. But so long as poor, dear papa remains
as he is, we can never be anything to one another. You must see that,
Horace
Yes, I see that
but trust me, Sylvia, he shall _not_ remain
as he is. I swear he shall not. In another day or two, at the outside,
you will see him his own self once more. And then -- oh, darling, darling,
you won't let anything or anybody separate us? Promise me that
When papa is himself again
I shall know better what to
say. I can't promise anything now, Horace
If he wants me he'd be quite equal to coming on to the club after me
for he has about as much sense of the fitness of things
as Mary's lamb. I shouldn't care about seeing him suddenly bursting
through the floor of the smoking-room. Nor would the committee
I wish there was some
way of ringing him up
If he were only the slave of a ring
or a lamp, I'd rub it; but it wouldn't be any use to rub that
bottle -- and, besides, he isn't a slave. Probably he has a suspicion that
he has not exactly distinguished himself over his latest feat, and
thinks it prudent to keep out of my way for the present. But if he
fancies he'll make things any better for himself by that he'll find
himself mistaken
Fakrash
you _can't_ really mean to leave me in
such a regular deuce of a hole as this
At thy service
Oh, _there_ you are
Where on earth have you been
all this time
Nowhere on earth
but in the regions of the air,
seeking to promote thy welfare
If you have been as brilliantly successful up there as you have down
here
I have much to thank you for
I am more than repaid
by such assurances
of thy gratitude
I'm _not_ grateful
I'm devilish annoyed
Well hath it been written
Be disregardful of thine affairs, and commit them to the course
      of Fate,
    For often a thing that enrages thee may eventually be to thee
      pleasing
I don't see the remotest chance of that, in my case
Why is thy countenance thus troubled, and what new complaint hast thou
against me
What the devil do you mean by turning a distinguished and perfectly
inoffensive scholar into a wall-eyed mule
If that
is your idea of a practical joke
It is one of the easiest affairs possible
I have accomplished such transformations on several occasions
Then you ought to be ashamed of yourself, that's all. The question is
now -- how do you propose to restore him again
Far from undoing be that which is accomplished
What
you surely don't mean
to allow that unhappy Professor to remain like that for ever, do you
None can alter what is predestined
Very likely not. But it wasn't decreed that a learned man should be
suddenly degraded to a beastly mule for the rest of his life. Destiny
wouldn't be such a fool
Despise not mules, for they are useful and valuable animals in the
household
But, confound it all, have you no imagination? Can't you enter
at all into the feelings of a man -- a man of wide learning and
reputation -- suddenly plunged into such a humiliating condition
Upon his own head be it
For he hath brought
this fate upon himself
Well, how do you suppose that you have helped _me_ by this performance?
Will it make him any the more disposed to consent to my marrying his
daughter? Is that all you know of the world
It is not my intention that thou shouldst take his daughter to wife
Whether you approve or not, it's my intention to marry her
Assuredly she will not marry thee so long as her father remaineth a
mule
There I agree with you. But is that your notion of doing me a good
turn
I did not consider thy interest in this matter
Then will you be good enough to consider it now? I have pledged my word
that he shall be restored to his original form. Not only my happiness is
at stake, but my honour
By failure to perform the impossible none can lose honour. And this is
a thing that cannot be undone
Cannot be undone
Why
Because
I have forgotten the way
Nonsense
I don't believe it. Why
you're such a clever old Johnny -- I beg your
pardon, I meant such a clever old _Jinnee_ -- you can do anything, if you
only give your mind to it. Just look at the way you changed this house
back again to what it was. Marvellous
That was the veriest trifle
this would be a different affair
altogether
But child's play to _you_
Come, you know very
well you can do it if you only choose
It may be as thou sayest. But I do not choose
Then I think
that, considering the obligation you admit
yourself you are under to me, I have a right to know the reason -- the
_real_ reason -- why you refuse
Thy claim is not without justice
nor can I decline to gratify thee
That's right
I knew you'd see it in the proper light
when it was once put to you. Now, don't lose any more time, but restore
that unfortunate man at once, as you've promised
Not so
I promised thee a reason for my refusal -- and
that thou shalt have. Know then, O my son, that this indiscreet one had,
by some vile and unhallowed arts, divined the hidden meaning of what was
written upon the seal of the bottle wherein I was confined, and was
preparing to reveal the same unto all men
What would it matter to you if he did
Much -- for the writing contained a false and lying record of my
actions
If it is all lies, it can't do you any harm. Why not treat them with
the contempt they deserve
They are not _all_ lies
Well, never mind. Whatever you've done, you've expiated it by this
time
Now that Suleyman is no more, it is my desire to seek out my kinsmen of
the Green Jinn, and live out my days in amity and honour. How can that
be if they hear my name execrated by all mortals
Nobody would think of execrating you about an affair three thousand
years old. It's too stale a scandal
Thou speakest without understanding. I tell thee that if men knew but
the half of my misdoings
the noise of them would rise even
unto the uppermost regions, and scorn and loathing would be my portion
Oh, it's not so bad as all that
But, anyway, I'm sure the Professor
will readily agree to keep silence about it; and, as you have of course,
got the seal in your own possession again
Nay; the seal is still in his possession, and it is naught to me where
it is deposited
since the only mortal who hath
deciphered it is now a dumb animal
Not at all
There are several friends of his who could
decipher that inscription quite as easily as he did
Is this the truth
Certainly
Within the last quarter of a century
archaeology has made great strides. Our learned men can now read
Babylonian bricks and Chaldean tablets as easily as if they were
advertisements on galvanised iron. You may think you've been extremely
clever in turning the Professor into an animal, but you'll probably find
you've only made another mistake
How so
Well
now, that, in your infinite wisdom, you have ordained
that he should be a mule, he naturally can't possess property. Therefore
all his effects will have to be sold, and amongst them will be that seal
of yours, which, like many other things in his collection, will probably
be bought up by the British Museum, where it will be examined and
commented upon by every Orientalist in Europe. I suppose you've thought
of all that
O young man of marvellous sagacity
truly I had
omitted to consider these things, and thou hast opened my eyes in time.
For I will present myself unto this man-mule and adjure him to reveal
where he hath bestowed this seal, so that I may regain it
He can't do that, you know, so long as he remains a mule
I will endow him with speech for the purpose
Let me tell you this
he's in a very nasty temper just
now, naturally enough, and you won't get anything out of him until you
have restored him to human form. If you do that, he'll agree to
anything
Whether I restore him or not will depend not on me, but on the damsel
who is his daughter, and to whom thou art contracted in marriage. For
first of all I must speak with her
So long as I am present and you promise not to play any tricks
I've no objection, for I believe, if you once saw her and heard
her plead for her poor father, you wouldn't have the heart to hold out
any longer. But you must give me your word that you'll behave yourself
Thou hast it
I do but desire to see her on thine
account
Very well
but I really can't introduce you in that
turban -- she'd be terrified. Couldn't you contrive to get yourself up in
commonplace English clothes, just for once -- something that wouldn't
attract so much attention
Will this satisfy thee
That's better
much better. Now
we'll
go out and find a hansom and be at Kensington in less than twenty
minutes
We shall be there in less than twenty seconds
I should just like to observe
that if we've been seen, we shall probably cause a sensation. Londoners
are not accustomed to seeing people skimming over the chimney-pots like
amateur rooks
Trouble not for that
for no mortal eyes are capable of
following our flight
I hope not
or I shall lose any reputation I have left.
I think
I'd better go in alone first and prepare them, if
you don't mind waiting outside. I'll come to the window and wave my
pocket-handkerchief when they're ready. And _do_ come in by the door
like an ordinary person, and ask the maidservant if you may see me
I will bear it in mind
It is
kind of you to call and inquire
Dad is much the same this morning. He had a fairly
good night, and was able to take part of a carrot for breakfast -- but
I'm afraid he has just remembered that he has to read a paper on
'Oriental Occultism' before the Asiatic Society this evening, and it's
worrying him a little.... Oh, Horace
how
perfectly awful all this is! How _are_ we to bear it
Don't give way, darling
you will not have to bear it
much longer
It's all very well, Horace, but unless something is done _soon_ it will
be too late. We can't go _on_ keeping a mule in the study without the
servants suspecting something, and where are we to put poor, dear papa?
It's too ghastly to think of his having to be sent away to -- to a Home of
Rest for Horses -- and yet what _is_ to be done with him?... Why do you
come if you can't do anything
I shouldn't be here unless I could bring you good news. You remember
what I told you about the Jinnee
Remember
As if I could forget! Has he really come
back, Horace
Yes. I think I have brought him to see that he has made a foolish
mistake in enchanting your unfortunate father, and he seems willing to
undo it on certain conditions. He is somewhere within call at this
moment, and will come in whenever I give the signal. But he wishes to
speak to you first
To _me_? Oh, no, Horace
I'd so much
rather not. I don't like things that have come out of brass bottles. I
shouldn't know what to say, and it would frighten me horribly
You must be brave, darling
Remember that it depends on
you whether the Professor is to be restored or not. And there's nothing
alarming about old Fakrash, either, I've got him to put on ordinary
things, and he really doesn't look so bad in them. He's quite a mild,
amiable old noodle, and he'll do anything for you, if you'll only stroke
him down the right way. You _will_ see him, won't you, for your father's
sake
If I must
I -- I'll be as nice to him as
I can
Mr. Fatrasher Larmash -- to see Mr. Ventimore
You are probably not aware of it, sir
but it is the
custom here to uncover in the presence of a lady
Let me present you to Miss Sylvia Futvoye
the
lady whose name you have already heard
The damsel is not without comeliness
but
there are lovelier far than she
I didn't ask you for either criticisms or comparisons
there is nobody in the world equal to Miss Futvoye, in my
opinion, and you will be good enough to remember that fact. She is
exceedingly distressed (as any dutiful daughter would be) by the cruel
and senseless trick you have played her father, and she begs that you
will rectify it at once. Don't you, Sylvia
Yes, indeed
if -- if it isn't
troubling you too much
I have been turning over thy words in my mind
and I am convinced that thou art right. Even if
the contents of the seal were known of all men, they would raise no
clamour about affairs that concern them not. Therefore it is nothing to
me in whose hands the seal may be. Dost thou not agree with me in this
Of course I do
And it naturally follows that
It naturally follows, as thou sayest
that I have naught to gain by demanding
back the seal as the price of restoring this damsel's father to his
original form. Wherefore, so far as I am concerned, let him remain a
mule for ever; unless, indeed, thou art ready to comply with my
conditions
Conditions
What can you possibly want from me? But state them. I'll agree to
anything, in reason
I demand that thou shouldst renounce the hand of this damsel
That's out of all reason
and you know it. I will never
give her up, so long as she is willing to keep me
Maiden
the
matter rests with thee. Wilt thou release this my son from his contract,
since thou art no fit wife for such as he
How can I
when I love him and he loves me? What a
wicked tyrannical old thing you must be to expect it! I _can't_ give him
up
It is but giving up what can never be thine
And be not
anxious for him, for I will reward and console him a thousandfold for
the loss of thy society. A little while, and he shall remember thee no
more
Don't believe him, darling
you know me better than
that
Remember
that by thy refusal thou wilt condemn thy
parent to remain a mule throughout all his days. Art thou so unnatural
and hard-hearted a daughter as to do this thing
Oh, I couldn't
I can't let poor father remain a mule
all his life when one word -- and yet what _am_ I to do? Horace, what
shall I say? Advise me.... Advise me
Heaven help us both
If I could only see the
right thing to do. Look here, Mr. Fakrash
this is a matter
that requires consideration. Will you relieve us of your presence for a
short time, while we talk it over
With all my heart
Now, darling
if that unspeakable
old scoundrel is really in earnest, there's no denying that he's got us
in an extremely tight place. But I can't bring myself to believe that he
_does_ mean it. I fancy he's only trying us. And what I want you to do
is not to consider me in the matter at all
How can I help it
Horace, you -- you don't _want_ to
be released, do you
I
when you are all I have in the world! That's so
likely, Sylvia! But we are bound to look facts in the face. To begin
with, even if this hadn't happened, your people wouldn't let our
engagement continue. For my prospects have changed again, dearest. I'm
even worse off than when we first met, for that confounded Jinnee has
contrived to lose my first and only client for me -- the one thing worth
having he ever gave me
So you see, darling
I haven't even a home to offer you; and if I had, it would
be miserably uncomfortable for you with that old Marplot continually
dropping in on us -- especially if, as I'm afraid he has, he's taken some
unreasonable dislike to you
But surely you can talk him over
you said you could do
anything you liked with him
I'm beginning to find
that he's not so
easily managed as I thought. And for the present, I'm afraid, if we are
to get the Professor out of this, that there's nothing for it but to
humour old Fakrash
Then you actually advise me to -- to break it off
I never
thought you would do that
For your own sake
for your father's sake. If _you_
won't, Sylvia, I _must_. And you will spare me that? Let us both agree
to part and -- and trust that we shall be united some day
Don't try to deceive me or yourself, Horace
if we part
now, it will be for ever
We must hope for the
best
Fakrash may have some motive in all this we
don't understand. Or he may relent. But part we must, for the present
Very well
If he restores dad, I will give you up. But not
unless
Hath the damsel decided
for
the period of deliberation is past
Miss Futvoye and I
are willing to consider
our engagement at an end, until you approve of its renewal, on condition
that you restore her father at once
Agreed
Conduct me to him, and we will arrange the
matter without delay
You here,
Horace
And who is this -- gentleman
This
is the -- er -- author of the Professor's misfortunes,
and he had come here at my request to undo his work
It _would_ be so kind of him
I'm sure, if he
knew all we have gone through
O man of distinguished attainments
whom I have
caused, for reasons that are known unto thee, to assume the shape of a
mule, speak, I adjure thee, and tell me where thou hast deposited the
inscribed seal which is in thy possession
I'll see you damned first
You can't do worse to me than you've done already
As thou wilt
but unless I regain it, I will not
restore thee to what thou wast
Well, then
you'll find it in the top
right-hand drawer of my writing-table: the key is in that diorite bowl
on the mantelpiece
So far,
well
next thou must deliver up to me the transcription thou
hast made, and swear to preserve an inviolable secrecy regarding the
meaning thereof
Do you know what you're asking, sir
Do you think that to oblige you I'm going to suppress
one of the most remarkable discoveries of my whole scientific career?
Never, sir -- never
Since if thou refusest I shall assuredly deprive thee of speech once
more and leave thee a mule, as thou art now, of hideous appearance
thou art like to gain little by a discovery which thou
wilt be unable to impart. However, the choice rests with thee
You've got the whip-hand of me
and I may as well
give in. There's a transcript inside my blotting-case -- it's the only
copy I've made
Now raise thy right forefoot
and swear by all thou holdest
sacred never to divulge what thou hast learnt
Good
Now let one of thy women
bring me a cup of fair water
It's filtered
I don't know if that will do
It will suffice
Let both the women withdraw
Surely
you don't mean to turn his wife
and daughter out of the room at such a moment as this? We shall be
perfectly quiet, and we may even be of some help
Do as you're told, my dear
do as you're
told. You'll only be in the way here. Do you suppose he doesn't know his
own beastly business
Quit this
form and return to the form in which thou wast
There, there
it's nothing to make a fuss about. I'm
quite myself again, as you can see. And
if one of you had only had the common sense to
think of such a simple remedy as sprinkling a little cold water over me
when I was first taken like that, I should have been spared a great deal
of unnecessary inconvenience. But that's always the way with women -- lose
their heads the moment anything goes wrong! If I had not kept perfectly
cool myself
It was very, very stupid of us not to think of it, papa
still, you know, if _we_ had thrown the water it mightn't
have had the same effect
I'm not in a condition to argue now
you didn't
trouble to try it, and there's no more to be said
No more to be said
O thou monster of ingratitude,
hast thou no thanks for him who hath delivered thee from thy
predicament
As I am already indebted to you, sir
for about
twenty-four hours of the most poignant and humiliating mental and bodily
anguish a human being can endure, inflicted for no valid reason that I
can discover, except the wanton indulgence of your unholy powers, I can
only say that any gratitude of which I am conscious is of a very
qualified description. As for you, Ventimore
I don't know -- I can only guess at -- the part you have played in
this wretched business; but in any case you will understand, once for
all, that all relations between us must cease
Papa
Horace and I have already agreed
that -- that we must separate
At my bidding
for such an alliance would
be totally unworthy of his merits and condition
Nobody asked for your opinion, sir
A person who has only
recently been released from a term of long and, from all I have been
able to ascertain, well-deserved imprisonment, is scarcely entitled to
pose as an authority on social rank. Have the decency not to interfere
again with my domestic affairs
Excellent is the saying
Let the
rat that is between the paws of the leopard observe rigidly all the
rules of politeness and refrain from words of provocation.' For to
return thee to the form of a mule once more would be no difficult
undertaking
I think I failed to make myself clear
failed to make myself clear. I -- I merely meant to congratulate
you on your fortunate escape from the consequences of what I -- I don't
doubt was an error of justice. I -- I am sure that, in the future, you
will employ your -- your very remarkable abilities to better purpose, and
I would suggest that the greatest service you can do this unfortunate
young man here is to abstain from any further attempts to promote his
interests
Hear, hear
Far be this from me
For he has become unto me even
as a favourite son, whom I design to place upon the golden pinnacle of
felicity. Therefore, I have chosen for him a wife, who is unto this
damsel of thine as the full moon to the glow-worm, and as the bird of
Paradise to an unfledged sparrow. And the nuptials shall be celebrated
before many hours
Horace
why -- _why_ didn't you tell me
this before
Because
this is the very first I've heard
of it. He's always springing some fresh surprise on me
but they never come to anything much. And he can't marry me
against my will, you know
No
I never supposed he could do that,
Horace
I'll settle this at once
Now, look here, Mr. Jinnee
I don't know what new scheme you have got in your head -- but if
you are proposing to marry me to anybody in particular
Have I not informed thee that I have it in contemplation to obtain for
thee the hand of a King's daughter of marvellous beauty and
accomplishments
You know perfectly well you never mentioned it before
Repine not, O damsel
since it is for his
welfare. For, though as yet he believeth it not, when he beholds the
resplendent beauty of her countenance he will swoon away with delight
and forget thy very existence
I shall do nothing of the sort
Just
understand that I don't intend to marry any Princess. You may prevent
me -- in fact, you _have_ -- from marrying this lady, but you can't force me
to marry anybody else. I defy you
When thou hast seen thy bride's perfections thou wilt need no
compulsion
And if thou shouldst refuse, know this: that
thou wilt be exposing those who are dear to thee in this household to
calamities of the most unfortunate description
Give me time
I want to talk this over with you
Pardon me, Ventimore
but, interesting as the discussion of your matrimonial arrangements is
to you and your -- a -- protector, I should greatly prefer that you choose
some more fitting place for arriving at a decision which is in the
circumstances a foregone conclusion. I am rather tired and upset, and I
should be obliged if you and this gentleman could bring this most trying
interview to a close as soon as you conveniently can
You hear, Mr. Fakrash
it is quite
time we left. If you go at once, I will follow you very shortly
Thou wilt find me awaiting thee
Well
you see how I'm situated? That obstinate
old devil has cornered me. I'm done for
Don't say that
you appear to be on the eve of a
most brilliant alliance, in which I am sure you have our best
wishes -- the best wishes of us all
Sylvia
before I go, tell me that,
whatever I may have to do, you will understand that -- that it will be for
your sake
Please don't talk like that
We may never see one another
again. Don't let my last recollection of you be of -- of a hypocrite,
Horace
A hypocrite
Sylvia, this is too much! What have I said or
done to make you think me that
Oh, I am not so simple as you suppose, Horace
I see now
why all this has happened: why poor dad was tormented; why you insisted
on my setting you free. But I would have released you without _that_!
Indeed, all this elaborate artifice wasn't in the least necessary
You believe I was an accomplice in that old fool's plot
You
believe me such a cur as that
I don't blame you
I don't believe you could help yourself.
He can make you do whatever he chooses. And then, you are so rich now,
it is natural that you should want to marry some one -- some one more
suited to you -- like this lovely Princess of yours
Of mine
When I tell you I've never
even seen her! As if any Princess in the world would marry me to please
a Jinnee out of a brass bottle! And if she did, Sylvia, you can't
believe that any Princess would make me forget you
It depends so very much on the Princess
Well
if that's all the faith you have in me, I suppose
it's useless to say any more. Good-bye, Mrs. Futvoye; good-bye,
Professor. I wish I could tell you how deeply I regret all the trouble I
have brought on you by my own folly. All I can say is, that I will bear
anything in future rather than expose you or any of you to the smallest
risk
I trust, indeed
that you will use all
the influence at your command to secure me from any repetition of an
experience that might well have unmanned a less equable temperament than
my own
Good-bye, Horace
I believe you are
more to be pitied than blamed, whatever others may think. And _I_ don't
forget -- if Anthony does -- that, but for you, he might, instead of sitting
there comfortably in his armchair, be lashing out with his hind legs and
kicking everything to pieces at this very moment
I deny that I lashed out
My -- a -- hind quarters
may have been under imperfect control -- but I never lost my reasoning
powers or my good humour for a single instant. I can say that
truthfully
Good-bye, Sylvia
Good-bye
Ah, no
I
can't let you go like this. I didn't mean all the things I said just
now. I _do_ believe in you, Horace -- at least, I'll try hard to.... And I
shall always, _always_ love you, Horace.... I shan't care -- very
much -- even if you do forget me, so long as you are happy.... Only don't
be _too_ happy. Think of me sometimes
I shall _not_ be too happy
And I shall
think of you always
And you won't fall in love with your Princess
Promise
If I am ever provided with one
I shall loathe her -- for
not being you. But don't let us lose heart, darling. There must be some
way of talking that old idiot out of this nonsense and bringing him
round to common sense. I'm not going to give in just yet
Well
I suppose you feel satisfied with
yourself over this business
It hath indeed been brought to a favourable conclusion
Well hath the poet written
I don't think I can stand any more 'Elegant Extracts' this afternoon
Let us come to business. You seem
to have formed some plan
for marrying me to a King's daughter. May I ask you for full
particulars
No honour and advancement can be in excess of thy deserts
Very kind of you to say so -- but you are probably unaware that, as
society is constituted at the present time, the objections to such an
alliance would be quite insuperable
For me
few obstacles are insuperable. But speak thy
mind freely
I will
To begin with, no European Princess of the Blood
Royal would entertain the idea for a moment. And if she did, she would
forfeit her rank and cease to be a Princess, and I should probably be
imprisoned in a fortress for _lese majeste_ or something
Dismiss thy fears, for I do not propose to unite thee to any Princess
that is born of mortals. The bride I intend for thee is a Jinneeyeh; the
peerless Bedeea-el-Jemal, daughter of my kinsman Shahyal, the Ruler of
the Blue Jann
Oh, is she, though
I'm exceedingly obliged,
but, whatever may be the lady's attractions
Her nose
is like unto the keen
edge of a polished sword; her hair resembleth jewels, and her cheeks are
ruddy as wine. She hath heavy lips, and when she looketh aside she
putteth to shame the wild cows
My good, excellent friend
one doesn't marry to mortify wild cows
When she walketh with a vacillating gait
the willow branch itself turneth green
with envy
Personally
a waddle doesn't strike me as particularly
fascinating -- it's quite a matter of taste. Do you happen to have seen
this enchantress lately
My eyes have not been refreshed by her manifold beauties since I was
enclosed by Suleyman -- whose name be accursed -- in the brass bottle of
which thou knowest. Why dost thou ask
Merely because it occurred to me that, after very nearly three thousand
years, your charming kinswoman may -- well, to put it as mildly as
possible, not have altogether escaped the usual effects of Time. I mean,
she must be getting on, you know
O, silly-bearded one
art
thou, then, ignorant that we of the Jinn are not as mortals, that we
should feel the ravages of age
Forgive me if I'm personal
but surely your own hair
and beard might be described as rather inclining to grey
Not from age
This cometh from long confinement
I see
Like the Prisoner of Chillon. Well, assuming that
the lady in question is still in the bloom of early youth, I see one
fatal difficulty to becoming her suitor
Doubtless
thou art referring to Jarjarees, the son
of Rejmoos, the son of Iblees
No, I wasn't
because, you see, I don't remember having
ever heard of him. However, he's _another_ fatal difficulty. That makes
two of them
Surely I have spoken of him to thee as my deadliest foe? It is true
that he is a powerful and vindictive Efreet, who hath long persecuted
the beauteous Bedeea with hateful attentions. Yet it may be possible, by
good fortune, to overthrow him
Then I gather that any suitor for Bedeea's hand would be looked upon as
a rival by the amiable Jarjarees
Far is he from being of an amiable disposition
and he would be so transported by rage and jealousy that he
would certainly challenge thee to mortal combat
Then that settles it
I don't think any one can fairly
call me a coward, but I do draw the line at fighting an Efreet for the
hand of a lady I've never seen. How do I know he'll fight fair
He would probably appear unto thee first in the form of a lion, and if
he could not thus prevail against thee, transform himself into a
serpent, and then into a buffalo or some other wild beast
And I should have to tackle the entire menagerie
Why,
my dear sir, I should never get beyond the lion
I would assist thee to assume similar transformations
and thus thou mayst be enabled to defeat him. For I burn with
desire to behold mine enemy reduced to cinders
It's much more likely that you would have to sweep _me_ up
And if you're so anxious to
destroy this Jarjarees, why don't you challenge him to meet you in some
quiet place in the desert and settle him yourself? It's much more in
your line than it is in mine
It would be of no avail
for it hath been written of
old that Jarjarees shall not perish save by the hand of a mortal. And I
am persuaded that thou wilt turn out to be that mortal, since thou art
both strong and fearless, and, moreover, it is also predestined that
Bedeea shall wed one of the sons of men
Then
I fall back on objection number one. Even if Jarjarees were
obliging enough to retire in my favour, I should still decline to become
the -- a -- consort of a Jinneeyeh whom I've never seen, and don't love
Thou hast heard of her incomparable charms, and verily the ear may love
before the eye
It may
but neither of _my_ ears is the least in
love at present
These reasons are of no value
and if thou hast none
better
Well
I think I have. You profess to be anxious
to -- to requite the trifling service I rendered you, though hitherto,
you'll admit yourself, you haven't made a very brilliant success of it.
But, putting the past aside
putting the past aside, I ask you to consider what possible
benefit or happiness such a match as this -- I'm afraid I'm not so
fortunate as to secure your attention
Proceed
I am
hearkening unto thee
It seems to me
that all
that time inside a bottle -- well, you can't call it _experience_ exactly;
and possibly in the interval you've forgotten all you knew about
feminine nature. I think you _must_ have
It is not possible that such knowledge should be forgotten
Thy words
appear to me to lack sense. Interpret them, I pray thee
Why
you don't mean to tell me that this young and
lovely relation of yours, a kind of immortal, and -- and with the devil's
own pride, would be gratified by your proposal to bestow her hand upon
an insignificant and unsuccessful London architect? She'd turn up that
sharp and polished nose of hers at the mere idea of so unequal a match
An excellent rank is that conferred by wealth
But I'm _not_ rich, and I've already declined any riches from you
And, what's more to the point, I'm perfectly and
hopelessly obscure. If you had the slightest sense of humour -- which I
fear you have not -- you would at once perceive the absurdity of proposing
to unite a radiant, ethereal, superhuman being to a commonplace
professional nonentity in a morning coat and a tall hat. It's really too
ridiculous
What thou hast just said is not altogether without wisdom
Art thou,
indeed, so utterly unknown
Unknown
I should rather think I was! I'm simply an
inconsiderable unit in the population of the vastest city in the world;
or, rather, not a unit -- a cipher. And, don't you see, a man to be worthy
of your exalted kinswoman ought to be a celebrity. There are plenty of
them about
What meanest thou by a celebrity
Oh, well, a distinguished person, whose name is on everybody's lips,
who is honoured and praised by all his fellow-citizens. Now, _that_ kind
of man no Jinneeyeh could look down upon
I perceive
Yes, I was in danger of
committing a rash action. How do men honour such distinguished
individuals in these days
They generally overfeed them
In London the highest
honour a hero can be paid is to receive the freedom of the City, which
is only conferred in very exceptional cases, and for some notable
service. But, of course, there are other sorts of celebrities, as you
could see if you glanced through the society papers
I cannot believe that thou, who seemest a gracious and talented young
man, can be indeed so obscure as thou hast represented
My good sir, any of the flowers that blush unseen in the desert air, or
the gems concealed in ocean caves, so excellently described by one of
our poets, could give me points and a beating in the matter of
notoriety. I'll make you a sporting offer. There are over five million
inhabitants in this London of ours. If you go out into the streets and
ask the first five hundred you meet whether they know me, I don't mind
betting you -- what shall I say? a new hat -- that you won't find half a
dozen who've ever even heard of my existence. Why not go out and see for
yourself
I
will go forth and make inquiry
for I desire further
enlightenment concerning thy statements. But, remember
should I still require thee to wed the matchless Bedeea-el-Jemal, and
thou shouldst disobey me, thou wilt bring disaster, not on thine own
head, but on those thou art most desirous of protecting
Yes, so you told me before
Good evening
a spell of the dry grins
I'm afraid he won't be particularly impressed by the
politeness of a London crowd
but at least they'll
convince him that I am not exactly a prominent citizen. Then he'll give
up this idiotic match of his -- I don't know, though. He's such a
pig-headed old fool that he may stick to it all the same. I may find
myself encumbered with a Jinneeyeh bride several centuries my senior
before I know where I am. No, I forget; there's the jealous Jarjarees to
be polished off first. I seem to remember something about a quick-change
combat with an Efreet in the
I may as well look it up,
and see what may be in store for me
The Arabian Nights
The Story of
the Second Royal Mendicant
Jarjarees, the son of Rejmoos, the son of Iblees
of hideous aspect
Between this fellow and old
Fakrash
I seem likely to have a
fairly lively time of it
in a most hideous shape,
with hands like winnowing forks, and legs like masts, and eyes like
burning torches
If Fakrash can shove me through all that without a fatal hitch
somewhere
I shall be agreeably disappointed
in him
body of fire
And
when we looked towards him
we perceived that
he had become a heap of ashes
Come
that puts Jarjarees out of action, any
way! The odd thing is that Fakrash should never have heard of it
The Story of Seyf-el-Mulook and
Bedeea-el-Jemal
And Seyf was a King's son
I needn't alarm myself.
She wouldn't be likely to have anything to say to _me_. It's just as I
told Fakrash
Even
Fakrash could not propose to marry me to some one who has a husband
already
Still, she _may_ be a widow
Seyf-el-Mulook lived
with Bedeea-el-Jemal a most pleasant and agreeable life ... until they
were visited by the terminator of delights and the separator of
companions
If that means anything at all
it means that Seyf and
Bedeea are both deceased. Even Jinneeyeh seem to be mortal. Or perhaps
she became so by marrying a mortal; I dare say that Fakrash himself
wouldn't have lasted all this time if he hadn't been bottled, like a
tinned tomato. But I'm glad I found this out, because Fakrash is
evidently unaware of it, and, if he _should_ persist in any more of this
nonsense, I think I see my way now to getting the better of him
Oh, it's _you_, is
it
How did you -- a -- get on last night
I gained such information as I desired
and
now, for the last time, I am come to ask thee whether thou wilt still
persist in refusing to wed the illustrious Bedeea-el-Jemal? And have a
care how thou answerest
So you haven't given up the idea
Well, since you make
such a point of it, I'll meet you as far as this. If you produce the
lady, and she consents to marry me, I won't decline the honour. But
there's one condition I really _must_ insist on
It is not for thee to make stipulations. Still, yet this once I will
hear thee
I'm sure you'll see that it's only fair. Supposing, for any reason, you
can't persuade the Princess to meet me within a reasonable time -- shall
we say a week
Thou shalt be admitted to her presence within twenty-four hours
That's better still. Then, if I don't see her within twenty-four hours,
I am to be at liberty to infer that the negotiations are off, and I may
marry anybody else I please, without any opposition from you? Is that
understood
It is agreed
for I am confident that Bedeea will
accept thee joyfully
We shall see
But it might be as well if you went and
prepared her a little. I suppose you know where to find her -- and you've
only twenty-four hours, you know
More than is needed
But
the sun is already high. Arise, my son, put on these robes
and when thou
hast broken thy fast, prepare to accompany me
Before I agree to that
I should like
to know where you're taking me to
Obey me without demur
or thou knowest the
consequences
Eat quickly
for the time is short
Good Heavens
What does all this mean
Whose carriage is that
It belongs to thee
descend then, and make thy
progress in it through the City
I will not
Even to oblige you I simply can't drive
along the streets in a thing like the band-chariot of a travelling
circus
It is necessary
Must I again recall to thee the
penalty of disobedience
Oh, very well
If you insist on my making a
fool of myself, I suppose I must. But where am I to drive, and why
That
thou shalt discover at the fitting moment
I think you might tell me what all this means
You've no
conception what an ass I feel, stuck up here like this
Dismiss bashfulness from thee, since all this is designed to render
thee more acceptable in the eyes of the Princess Bedeea
Arabian Nights
Mr. Fakrash
surely this isn't my -- my wedding day?
You're not going to have the ceremony _there_
Nay
be not impatient. For this edifice would be
totally unfitted for the celebration of such nuptials as thine
How they're cheering us
Why, they couldn't make more
row for the Lord Mayor himself
What is this Lord Mayor of whom thou speakest
The Lord Mayor
Oh, he's unique. There's nobody in the
world quite like him. He administers the law, and if there's any
distress in any part of the earth he relieves it. He entertains monarchs
and Princes and all kinds of potentates at his banquets, and altogether
he's a tremendous swell
Hath he dominion over the earth and the air and all that is therein
Within his own precincts, I believe he has
but I really don't know precisely how wide his powers are
Tell me
what meaneth this
You don't mean to say
that you have been about London
all these days, and never noticed things like these before
Till now
I have had no leisure to observe them and
discover their nature
Well
since your days we have discovered how to tame or
chain the great forces of Nature and compel them to do our will. We
control the Spirits of Earth, Air, Fire, and Water, and make them give
us light and heat, carry our messages, fight our quarrels for us,
transport us wherever we wish to go, with a certainty and precision that
throw even your performances, my dear sir, entirely into the shade
And doth the Lord Mayor dispose of these forces at his will
Certainly
whenever he has occasion
Mr. Fakrash, answer me
Is this my wedding day or not? If it
is, it's time I was told
Not yet
Perhaps you can tell me why we're going through Victoria Street, and
what all this crowd has come out for
For what else but to do thee honour
What bosh
They mistake me for the Shah or somebody -- and
no wonder, in this get-up
Not so
Thy names are familiar to them
Welcome to the
City's most distinguished guest
They can't mean me
Well done, Ventimore
Would we had twenty more
    Like Horace Ventimore
They _do_ mean me
Now, Mr. Fakrash, _will_ you kindly
explain what tomfoolery you've been up to now? I know you're at the
bottom of this business
Didst thou not
say
that he who should receive the freedom of the City
from his fellow-men would be worthy of Bedeea-el-Jemal
I may have said something of the sort. But, good heavens! you don't
mean that you have contrived that _I_ should receive the freedom of the
City
It was the easiest affair possible
Was it, though
I don't want to be
inquisitive, but I should like to know what I've done to deserve it
Why trouble thyself with the reason? Let it suffice thee that such
honour is bestowed upon thee
This really won't do
It's not fair to me. Either I've
done something, or you must have made the Corporation _believe_ I've
done something, to be received like this. And, as we shall be in the
Guildhall in a very few seconds, you may as well tell me what it is
Regarding that matter
I am
truly as ignorant as thyself
Well, Mr. Fakrash
you have surpassed yourself this time. You've got me into a nice
scrape, and you'll have to pull me through it as well as you can
Have no uneasiness
The Lord
Mayor will receive you in the library
If you will have the
kindness to follow me
I'm in for it now
whatever it is. If I can only trust Fakrash to back me up -- but I'm
hanged if I don't believe he's more nervous than I am
Mr. Ventimore
you must allow me to say that I consider this one of the
greatest privileges -- if not _the_ greatest privilege -- that have fallen
to my lot during a term of office in which I have had the honour of
welcoming more than the usual number of illustrious visitors
My Lord Mayor
you really
overwhelm me. I -- I only wish I could feel that I had done anything to
deserve this -- this magnificent compliment
Ah
Modest, my
dear sir, I perceive. Like all truly great men! A most admirable trait!
Permit me to present you to the Sheriffs
The actual presentation
takes place in the
Great Hall, as you are doubtless aware
I -- I have been given to understand so
But before we adjourn
you will let me tempt you to
partake of some slight refreshment -- just a snack
They talk of abolishing us
but I maintain, Mr. Ventimore -- I maintain that we, with our
ancient customs, our time-honoured traditions, form a link with the
past, which a wise statesman will preserve, if I may employ a somewhat
vulgar term, untinkered with
Talking of ancient customs
you will shortly have an illustration of
our antiquated procedure, which may impress you as quaint
Before presenting you for the freedom, the Prime Warden and five
officials of the Candlestick-makers' Company will give their testimony
as compurgators in your favour, making oath that you are 'a man of good
name and fame,' and that (you will be amused at this, Mr.
Ventimore)-- that you 'do desire the freedom of this city, whereby to
defraud the Queen or the City.' Ha, ha! Curious way of putting it, is it
not
Very
A mere form
but I for one, Mr. Ventimore -- I for
one should be sorry to see the picturesque old practices die out. To my
mind
the
modern impatience to sweep away all the ancient landmarks (whether they
be superannuated or not) is one of the most disquieting symptoms of the
age. You won't have any more champagne? Then I think we had better be
making our way to the Great Hall for the Event of the Day
I'm afraid
I'm afraid this is not quite the sort of
dress for such a ceremony. If I had known
Now, don't say another word
Your costume is
very nice -- very nice indeed, and -- and most appropriate, I am sure. But I
see the City Marshal is waiting for us to head the procession. Shall we
lead the way
items 1 to 4 on the agenda need not be discussed
the freedom of
the City should be presented to Horace Ventimore, Esq., Citizen and
Candlestick-maker
in recognition of his services
especially in connection
with
that have justly entitled him
to the gratitude and admiration of his fellow-countrymen
Illustrious List of London's Roll of Fame
Turning now to your own distinguished services
you are probably aware, sir, that it is
customary on these occasions to mention specifically the particular
merit which had been deemed worthy of civic recognition
But, on the present occasion, sir
I feel, as
all present must feel, that it would be unnecessary -- nay, almost
impertinent -- were I to weary the public ear by a halting recapitulation
of deeds with which it is already so appreciatively familiar
I have only therefore, to greet you in the name
of the Corporation, and to offer you the right hand of fellowship as a
Freeman, and Citizen, and Candlestick-maker of London
Speech
My Lord Mayor, my lords, ladies, and gentlemen
If you expect to hear from me any description of what I've
done to be received like this, I'm afraid you will be disappointed. For
my own belief is that I've done nothing whatever
No, no
It's all very well to say 'No, no
and I am extremely
grateful to you all for the interruption. Still, I can only repeat that
I am absolutely unaware of having ever rendered my Country, or this
great City, a single service deserving of the slightest acknowledgment.
I wish I could feel I had -- but the truth is that, if I have, the fact
has entirely slipped from my memory
I know what you're thinking
You're thinking this is
mock modesty on my part. But it's nothing of the sort. _I_ don't know
what I've done -- but I presume you are all better informed. Because the
Corporation wouldn't have given me that very charming casket -- you
wouldn't all of you be here like this -- unless you were under a strong
impression that I'd done _something_ to deserve it
Just so
Well, now,
will any of you be kind enough to tell me, in a few words, _what_ you
suppose I've done
My Lord Mayor
I appeal to you to tell me and this
distinguished assembly why on earth we're all here
I think it sufficient to say
that the Corporation and myself were unanimously of opinion
that this distinction should be awarded -- for reasons which it is
unnecessary and -- hum -- ha -- invidious to enter into here
I am sorry
but I must press your lordship for
those reasons. I have an object.... Will the City Chamberlain oblige me,
then?... No? Well, then, the Town Clerk?... No?-- it's just as I
suspected: none of you can give me your reasons, and shall I tell you
why? Because there _aren't_ any.... Now, do bear with me for a moment.
I'm quite aware this is very embarrassing for all of you -- but remember
that it's infinitely more awkward for _me_! I really cannot accept the
freedom of the City under any suspicion of false pretences. It would be
a poor reward for your hospitality, and base and unpatriotic into the
bargain, to depreciate the value of so great a distinction by permitting
it to be conferred unworthily. If, after you've heard what I am going to
tell you, you still insist on my accepting such an honour, of course I
will not be so ungracious as to refuse it. But I really don't feel that
it would be right to inscribe my name on your Roll of Fame without some
sort of explanation. If I did, I might, for anything I know,
involuntarily be signing the death-warrant of the Corporation
Before I go any farther
will your lordship pardon me if I
suggest that it might be as well to direct that all reporters present
should immediately withdraw
We, at least
have no reason to dread
publicity. I decline to make a hole-and-corner affair of this. I shall
give no such orders
Very well
My
suggestion was made quite as much in the Corporation's interests as
mine. I merely thought that, when you all clearly understood how grossly
you've been deluded, you might prefer to have the details kept out of
the newspapers if possible. But if you particularly want them published
over the whole world, why, of course
Don't make this more difficult and disagreeable for me than it is
already
You
don't suppose that I should have come here in this Tom-fool's dress,
imposing myself on the hospitality of this great City, if I could have
helped it! If you've been brought here under false pretences, so have I.
If you've been made to look rather foolish, what is _your_ situation to
mine? The fact is, I am the victim of a headstrong force which I am
utterly unable to control
I only ask for fair play and a patient hearing
Give me that, and I will undertake to restore you all to good humour
before I have done
My case is
simply this
A little time ago I happened to go to an auction
and buy a large brass bottle
_Will_ you hear me out
I'm not trifling. I
haven't told you yet what was inside the bottle. When I opened it, I
found
So there you are
I thought you'd deserted me again.
What have you brought me up here for
Because I desired to have speech with thee in private
We're not likely to be intruded on here, certainly
But
isn't it rather exposed, rather public? If we're seen up here, you know,
it will cause a decided sensation
I have laid a spell on all below that they should not raise their
eyes. Be seated, therefore, and hear my words
O, most
indiscreet of mankind
thou hast been
near the committal of a great blunder, and doing ill to thyself and to
me
Well, I _do_ like that
when you let me in for all
that freedom of the City business, and then sneaked off, leaving me to
get out of it the best way I could, and only came back just as I was
about to explain matters, and carried me up through the roof like a sack
of flour. Do you consider that tactful on your part
Thou hadst drunk wine and permitted it to creep as far as the place of
secrets
Only one glass
and I wanted it, I can assure you. I was
obliged to make a speech to them, and, thanks to you, I was in such a
hole that I saw nothing for it but to tell the truth
Veracity, as thou wilt learn
is not invariably
the Ship of Safety. Thou wert about to betray the benefactor who
procured for thee such glory and honour as might well cause the
gall-bladder of lions to burst with envy
If any lion with the least sense of humour could have witnessed the
proceedings
he might have burst with
laughter -- certainly not envy. Good Lord! Fakrash
I've never felt such an absolute ass in my whole life! If
nothing would satisfy you but my receiving the freedom of the City, you
might at least have contrived some decent excuse for it! But you left
out the only point there was in the whole thing -- and all for what
What doth it signify why the whole populace should come forth to
acclaim thee and do thee honour, so long as they did so
For the report of thy fame would reach Bedeea-el-Jemal
That's just where you're mistaken
If you had not been
in too desperate a hurry to make a few inquiries, you would have found
out that you were taking all this trouble for nothing
How sayest thou
Well, you would have discovered that the Princess is spared all
temptation to marry beneath her by the fact that she became the bride of
somebody else about thirty centuries ago. She married a mortal, one
Seyf-el-Mulook, a King's son, and they've both been dead a considerable
time -- another obstacle to your plans
It is a lie
If you will take me back to Vincent Square, I shall be happy to show
you the evidence in your national records
And you may be
glad to know that your old enemy, Mr. Jarjarees, came to a violent end,
after a very sporting encounter with a King's daughter, who, though
proficient in advanced magic, unfortunately perished herself, poor lady,
in the final round
I had intended _thee_ to accomplish his downfall
I know
It was most thoughtful of you. But I doubt if I
should have done it half as well -- and it would have probably cost me an
eye, at the very least. It's better as it is
And how long hast thou known of these things
Only since last night
Since last night? And thou didst not unfold them unto me till this
instant
I've had such a busy morning, you see
There's been
no time
Silly-bearded fool that I was to bring this misbegotten dog into the
august presence of the great Lord Mayor himself (on whom be peace
I object to being referred to as a misbegotten dog
but
with the rest of your remark I entirely concur. I'm afraid the Lord
Mayor is very far from being at peace just now
There's the devil of a row going on under that lantern just now, Mr.
Fakrash, you may depend upon that. They've locked the doors till they
can decide what to do next -- which will take them some time. And it's all
your fault
It was thy doing. Why didst thou dare to inform the Lord Mayor that he
was deceived
Why? Because I thought he ought to know. Because I was bound,
particularly after my oath of allegiance, to warn him of any conspiracy
against him. Because I was in such a hat. He'll understand all that -- he
won't blame _me_ for this business
It is fortunate
that I flew away with thee
before thou couldst pronounce my name
You gave yourself away
They all saw you, you know. You
weren't flying so particularly fast. They'll recognise you again. If you
_will_ carry off a man from under the Lord Mayor's very nose, and shoot
up through the roof like a rocket with him, you can't expect to escape
some notice. You see, you happen to be the only unbottled Jinnee in this
City
I have committed no act of
disrespect unto the Lord Mayor
therefore he can have no just
cause of anger against me
My dear good old friend
you don't seem to realise yet what
an awful thing you've done. For your own mistaken purposes, you have
compelled the Chief Magistrate and the Corporation of the greatest City
in the world to make themselves hopelessly ridiculous. They'll never
hear the last of this affair. Just look at the crowds waiting patiently
below there. Look at the flags. Think of that gorgeous conveyance of
yours standing outside the Guildhall. Think of the assembly inside -- all
the most aristocratic, noble, and distinguished personages in the land
all collected for what?
To be made fools of by a Jinnee out of a brass bottle
For their own sakes they will preserve silence
Probably they would hush it up, if they only could
But how _can_ they? What are they to say? What plausible explanation
can they give? Besides, there's the Press: you don't know what the Press
is; but I assure you its power is tremendous -- it's simply impossible to
keep anything secret from it nowadays. It has eyes and ears everywhere,
and a thousand tongues. Five minutes after the doors in that hall are
unlocked (and they can't keep them locked _much_ longer) the reporters
will be handing in their special descriptions of you and your latest
vagaries to their respective journals. Within half an hour bills will be
carried through every quarter of London -- bills with enormous letters:
'Extraordinary Scene at the Guildhall.' 'Strange End to a Civic
Function.' 'Startling Appearance of an Oriental Genie in the City.'
'Abduction of a Guest of the Lord Mayor.' 'Intense Excitement.' 'Full
Particulars!' And by that time the story will have flashed round the
whole world. 'Keep silence,' indeed! Do you imagine for a moment that
the Lord Mayor, or anybody else concerned, however remotely, will ever
forget, or be allowed to forget, such an outrageous incident as this? If
you do, believe me, you're mistaken
Truly, it would be a terrible thing to incur the wrath of the Lord
Mayor
Awful
But you seem to have managed it
He weareth round his neck a magic jewel, which giveth him dominion
over devils -- is it not so
You know best
It was the splendour of that jewel and the majesty of his countenance
that rendered me afraid to enter his presence, lest he should recognise
me for what I am and command me to obey him, for verily his might is
greater even than Suleyman's, and his hand heavier upon such of the Jinn
as fall into his power
If that's so
I should strongly advise you to find some
way of putting things straight before it's too late -- you've no time to
lose
Thou sayest well
There is but one remedy I know
and it may be that I
have lost power to perform it. Yet will I make the endeavour
Look again
That cloud which thou sawest
hath swept away with it
all memory of this affair from the minds of every mortal assembled to do
thee honour. See, they go about their several businesses, and all the
past incidents are to them as though they had never been
By
Jove
that certainly gets the Lord Mayor and everybody else
out of the mess as neatly as possible. I must say, Mr. Fakrash, it's
much the best thing I've seen you do yet
Wait
for presently thou shalt see me perform a yet
more excellent thing
I really think you've done enough for to-day
And this wind
up here is rather searching. I shan't be sorry to find myself on the
ground again
That
thou shalt assuredly do before long, O
impudent and deceitful wretch
He _is_ put out about something
But what
My
dear sir
I don't understand this tone of yours. What
have I done to offend you
Divinely gifted was he who said: 'Beware of losing hearts in
consequence of injury, for the bringing them back after flight is
difficult
Excellent
But I don't quite see the application
The application
is that I am determined to
cast thee down from here with my own hand
Oh, come now
you don't
really mean that, you know. After all your kindness! You're much too
good-natured to be capable of anything so atrocious
All pity hath been eradicated from my heart
Therefore prepare to die, for thou art presently about to perish in the
most unfortunate manner
Besides
I can't sit up here
telling him anecdotes for ever. I'd almost sooner die
I think, Mr. Fakrash
that, in common fairness, I have a
right to know what offence I have committed
To recite thy misdeeds
would occupy much time
I don't mind that
I can give you as long as
you like. I'm in no sort of a hurry
With me it is otherwise
Therefore court not life, for thy death hath become unavoidable.'

"Before we part
you won't refuse to answer one or two
questions
Didst thou not undertake never to ask any further favour of me?
Moreover, it will avail thee nought. For I am positively determined to
slay thee
I demand it
in the most great name of the Lord Mayor
(on whom be peace
Ask, then
but briefly, for the time groweth short
Well
but for me, wouldn't you be still in that brass
bottle
That
is the very reason why I purpose to destroy
thee
Oh
Are there any other questions which thou wouldst ask
or wilt thou encounter thy doom without
further procrastination
I haven't nearly done yet
And, remember, you've promised to
answer me -- in the name of the Lord Mayor
I will answer one other question, and no more
Thy second question, O pertinacious one
I'm coming to it
I want to know why you should
propose to dash me to pieces in this barbarous way as a return for
letting you out of that bottle. Were you so comfortable in it as all
that
In the bottle I was at least suffered to rest, and none molested me.
But in releasing me thou didst perfidiously conceal from me that
Suleyman was dead and gone, and that there reigneth one in his stead
mightier a thousand-fold, who afflicteth our race with labours and
tortures exceeding all the punishments of Suleyman
What on earth have you got into your head now? You can't mean the Lord
Mayor
Whom else
And though, for this once, by a
device I have evaded his vengeance, yet do I know full well that either
by virtue of the magic jewel upon his breast, or through that malignant
monster with the myriad ears and eyes and tongues, which thou callest
'The Press,' I shall inevitably fall into his power before long
I beg your pardon, Mr. Fakrash
but -- the Lord Mayor! It's really too absurd. Why, he
wouldn't hurt a hair on a fly's head
Seek not to deceive me further
Didst thou
not inform me with thy own mouth that the spirits of Earth, Air, Water,
and Fire were subject to his will? Have I no eyes? Do I not behold from
here the labours of my captive brethren? What are those on yonder
bridges but enslaved Jinn, shrieking and groaning in clanking fetters,
and snorting forth steam, as they drag their wheeled burdens behind
them? Are there not others toiling, with panting efforts, through the
sluggish waters; others again, imprisoned in lofty pillars, from which
the smoke of their breath ascendeth even unto Heaven? Doth not the air
throb and quiver with their restless struggles as they writhe below in
darkness and torment? And thou hast the shamelessness to pretend that
these things are done in the Lord Mayor's own realms without his
knowledge! Verily thou must take me for a fool
After all
if he chooses to consider that
railway engines and steamers, and machinery generally, are inhabited by
so many Jinn 'doing time,' it's not to my interest to undeceive
him -- indeed, it's quite the contrary
I wasn't aware the Lord Mayor had so much power as all that
but very likely you're right. And if you're so anxious to keep in
favour with him, it would be a great mistake to kill me. That _would_
annoy him
Not so
for I should declare that thou hadst spoken
slightingly of him in my hearing, and that I had slain thee on that
account
Your proper course
would be to hand me over to him, and
let _him_ deal with the case. Much more regular
That may be
but I have conceived so bitter a hatred to
thee by reason of thy insolence and treachery, that I cannot forego the
delight of slaying thee with my own hand
Can't you really
And _then_,
what will you do
Then
I shall flee away to Arabia, where I shall
be safe
Don't you be too sure of that
You see all those wires
stretched on poles down there? Those are the pathways of certain Jinn
known as electric currents, and the Lord Mayor could send a message
along them which would be at Baghdad before you had flown farther than
Folkestone. And I may mention that Arabia is now more or less under
British jurisdiction
Thou art of opinion, then, that I should be no safer in mine own
country
I swear by the name of the Lord Mayor (to whom be all reverence
that there is no land you could fly to where you would be any
safer than you are here
If I were but sealed up in my bottle once more
would not even the Lord Mayor have respect unto the seal of Suleyman,
and forbear to disturb me
Why, of course he would
That's really a brilliant idea of yours, my dear Mr. Fakrash
And in the bottle I should not be compelled to work
For labour of all kinds hath ever been abhorrent unto me
I can quite understand that
Just
imagine your having to drag an excursion train to the seaside on a Bank
Holiday, or being condemned to print off a cheap comic paper, or even
the _War Cry_, when you might be leading a snug and idle existence in
your bottle. If I were you, I should go and get inside it at once.
Suppose we go back to Vincent Square and find it
I shall return to the bottle, since in that alone there is safety
But I shall return alone
Alone
You're not going to leave me stuck up here all
by myself
By no means
Have I not said that I am about to cast
thee to perdition? Too long have I delayed in the accomplishment of this
duty
One moment
Of course, if you've set your heart on pitching
me over, you must. Only -- I may be quite mistaken -- but I don't quite see
how you are going to manage the rest of your programme without me,
that's all
O deficient in intelligence
What assistance canst
thou render me
Well
of course, you can get into the bottle
alone -- that's simple enough. But the difficulty I see is this: Are you
quite sure you can put the cap on yourself -- from the _inside_, you
know
I'm done for
That
will be the easiest
of -- nay
there be things that not even the Jinn
themselves can accomplish, and one of them is to seal a vessel while
remaining in it. I am indebted to thee for reminding me thereof
Not at all
I shall be delighted to come and seal you
up comfortably myself
Again thou speakest folly
How canst thou seal
me up after I have dashed thee into a thousand pieces
That
is
precisely the difficulty I was trying to convey
There will be no difficulty, for as soon as I am in the bottle I shall
summon certain inferior Efreets, and they will replace the seal
When you are once in the bottle
you
probably won't be in a position to summon anybody
_Before_ I get into the bottle, then
Thou dost but juggle with words
But about those Efreets
You know what Efreets
_are_! How can you be sure that, when they've got you in the bottle,
they won't hand you over to the Lord Mayor? I shouldn't trust them
myself -- but, of course, you know best
Whom shall I trust, then
I'm sure I don't know. It's rather a pity you're so determined to
destroy me, because, as it happens, I'm just the one person living who
could be depended on to seal you up and keep your secret. However,
that's your affair. After all, why should I care what becomes of you? I
shan't be there
Even at this hour
I might find it in
my heart to spare thee, were I but sure that thou wouldst be faithful
unto me
I should have thought I was more to be trusted than one of your beastly
Efreets
But never mind,
I don't know that I care, after all. I've nothing particular to live for
now. You've ruined me pretty thoroughly, and you may as well finish your
work. I've a good mind to jump over, and save you the trouble. Perhaps,
when you see me bouncing down that dome, you'll be sorry
Refrain from rashness
If
thou wilt do as thou art bidden, I will not only pardon thee, but grant
thee all that thou desirest
Take me back to Vincent Square first
This is not the
place to discuss business
Thou sayest rightly
hold fast to my sleeve, and
I will transport thee to thine abode
Not till you promise to play fair
Remember, if you let me go now you drop the only friend
you've got in the world
May I be thy ransom
There shall not be harmed a
hair of thy head
I have brought thee hither
and yet I am persuaded that
thou art even now devising treachery against me, and wilt betray me if
thou canst
After the way you've behaved
I'm not at all sure that I
ought to help you. Still, I said I would, on certain conditions, and
I'll keep my word
Conditions
Wilt thou bargain with me yet
further
My excellent friend
you know perfectly well
that you can't get yourself safely sealed up again in that bottle
without my assistance. If you don't like my terms, and prefer to take
your chance of finding an Efreet who is willing to brave the Lord Mayor,
well, you've only to say so
I have loaded thee with all manner of riches and favours, and I will
bestow no more upon thee
Nay, in token of
my displeasure, I will deprive thee even of such gifts as thou hast
retained
That only shows what a nasty temper you're in
and doesn't annoy me in the least. If you'll excuse me, I'll go and put
on some things I can feel more at home in; and perhaps by the time I
return you'll have cooled down
Now, Mr. Fakrash
we'll have this out. You talk of having
loaded me with benefits. You seem to consider I ought to be grateful to
you. In Heaven's name, for what? I've been as forbearing as possible all
this time, because I gave you credit for meaning well. Now, I'll speak
plainly. I told you from the first, and I tell you now, that I want no
riches nor honours from you. The one real good turn you did me was
bringing me that client, and you spoilt that because you would insist on
building the palace yourself, instead of leaving it to me! As for the
rest -- here am I, a ruined and discredited man, with a client who
probably supposes I'm in league with the Devil; with the girl I love,
and might have married, believing that I have left her to marry a
Princess; and her father, unable ever to forgive me for having seen him
as a one-eyed mule. In short, I'm in such a mess all round that I don't
care two straws whether I live or die
What is all this to me
Only this -- that unless you can see your way to putting things straight
for me, I'm hanged if I take the trouble to seal you up in that bottle
How am _I_ to put things straight for thee
If you could make all those people entirely forget that affair in the
Guildhall, you can make my friends forget the brass bottle and
everything connected with it, can't you
There would be no difficulty in that
Well, do it -- and I'll swear to seal you up in the bottle exactly as if
you had never been out of it, and pitch you into the deepest part of the
Thames, where no one will ever disturb you
First produce the bottle, then
for I cannot believe
but that thou hast some lurking guile in thy heart
I'll ring for my landlady and have the bottle brought up
Perhaps that will satisfy you? Stay, you'd better not let her see you
I will render myself invisible
But beware lest thou play me false
for I shall hear thee
So you've come in, Mr. Ventimore
And without the furrin gentleman? I _was_ surprised, and so was Rapkin
the same, to see you ridin' off this morning in the gorgious chariot and
'osses, and dressed up that lovely! 'Depend upon it,' I says to Rapkin,
I says, 'depend upon it, Mr. Ventimore'll be sent for to Buckinham
Pallis, if it ain't Windsor Castle
Never mind that now
I want that brass
bottle I bought the other day. Bring it up at once, please
I thought you said the other day you never wanted to set eyes on it
again, and I was to do as I pleased with it, sir
Well, I've changed my mind, so let me have it, quick
I'm sure I'm very sorry, sir, but that you can't, because Rapkin, not
wishful to have the place lumbered up with rubbish, disposed of it on'y
last night to a gentleman as keeps a rag and bone emporium off the
Bridge Road, and 'alf-a-crown was the most he'd give for it, sir
Give me his name
Dilger, sir -- Emanuel Dilger. When Rapkin comes in I'm sure he'd go
round with pleasure, and see about it, if required
I'll go round myself
It's all right, Mrs. Rapkin, quite
a natural mistake on your part, but -- but I happen to want the bottle
again. You needn't stay
O thou smooth-faced and double-tongued one
Did I not foresee that thou wouldst
deal crookedly? Restore unto me my bottle
I'll go and get it at once
I shan't be five minutes
Thou shalt not leave this house
for I perceive
plainly that this is but a device of thine to escape and betray me to
the Press Devil
If you can't see
that I'm quite as anxious to
see you safely back in that confounded bottle as ever you can be to get
there, you must be pretty dense! _Can't_ you understand? The bottle's
sold, and I can't buy it back without going out. Don't be so infernally
unreasonable
Go, then
and I will await thy return here. But know
this: that if thou delayest long or returnest without my bottle, I shall
know that thou art a traitor, and will visit thee and those who are dear
to thee with the most unpleasant punishments
I'll be back in half an hour, at most
I want to see Mr. Dilger
You can't
Cause he ain't in. He's attending of an
auction
When _will_ he be in, do you know
Might be back to his tea -- but I wasn't to expect him not before
supper
You don't happen to have any old metal bottles -- copper or -- or brass
would do -- for sale
You don't git at me like that! Bottles is made o' glorss
Well, a jar, then -- a big brass pot -- anything of that kind
Don't keep 'em
Spicy Sniggers
I'll just look round
Why, this is the sort of thing I meant
How much do you want for it
I dunno
I don't mind three shillings
I'll tell the guv'nor when he comes in
and you can
look in later
I want it at once
Come, I'll give you three-and-six
for it
It's more than it's wurf
Perhaps
but I'm rather pressed for time. If you'll
change this sovereign, I'll take the bottle away with me
You seem uncommon anxious to get 'old on it, mister
Nonsense
I live close by, and I thought I might as well
take it, that's all
Oh, if that's all, you can wait till the guv'nor's in
I -- I mayn't be passing this way again for some time
Bound to be, if you live close by
Sniggers
Do you call this attending to your master's business
Listen to me, you young rascal. I'll give you five shillings for it.
You're not going to be fool enough to refuse an offer like that
I ain't goin' to be fool enough to refuse it -- nor yet I ain't goin' to
be fool enough to take it, 'cause I'm only 'ere to see as nobody don't
come in and sneak fings. I ain't got no authority to sell anyfink, and I
don't know the proice o' nuffink, so there you _'ave_ it
Take the five shillings
and if it's too little I'll
come round and settle with your master later
I thought you said you wasn't likely to be porsin' again? No, mister,
you don't kid me that way
Mr. Dilger, sir
ere's a gent took a fancy to this
'ere brass pot o' yours. Says he _must_ 'ave it. Five shillings he'd got
to, but I told him he'd 'ave to wait till you come in
Quite right, my lad
Five shillings! Ah, sir, you can't know much about these
hold brass antiquities to make an orfer like that
I know as much as most people
But let us say six
shillings
Couldn't be done, sir; couldn't indeed. Why, I give a pound for it
myself at Christie's, as sure as I'm standin' 'ere in the presence o' my
Maker, and you a sinner
Your memory is not quite accurate
You bought it last
night from a man of the name of Rapkin, who lets lodgings in Vincent
Square, and you paid exactly half a crown for it
If you say so I dare say it's correct, sir
And if I did buy it off Mr. Rapkin,
he's a respectable party, and ain't likely to have come by it
dishonest
I never said he did. What will you take for the thing
Well, just look at the work in it. They don't turn out the like o' that
nowadays. Dutch, that is; what they used for to put their milk and
such-like in
Damn it
_I_ know what it
was used for. _Will_ you tell me what you want for it
I couldn't let a curiosity like that go a penny under thirty
shillings
It would be robbin'
myself
I'll give you a sovereign for it -- there
You know best
what profit that represents. That's my last word
_My_ last word to that, sir, is good hevenin
Good evening, then
Don't go, mister
I like to do business if I can; though, 'pon my word and
honour, a sovereign for a work o' art like that! Well, just for luck and
bein' my birthday, we'll call it a deal
There
ought to be a lid or stopper of some sort
What have
you done with that
No, sir, there you're mistook, you are, indeed. I do assure you you
never see a pot of this partickler pattern with a lid to it. Never
Oh, don't you, though
I know better. Never mind
I'll
take it as it is. Don't trouble to wrap it up. I'm in rather a hurry
No welcome to thee
Dilatory dog that thou art! Hadst thou
delayed another minute, I would have called down some calamity upon
thee
Well, you need not trouble yourself to do that now
Here's your bottle, and you can creep into it as soon as you
please
But the seal
What hast thou done with the seal
which was upon the bottle
Why, you've got it yourself, of course
in one of your
pockets
O thou of base antecedents
How should _I_ have the seal? This is but a fresh device of
thine to undo me
Don't talk rubbish
You made the Professor give it
up to you yesterday. You must have lost it somewhere or other. Never
mind! I'll get a large cork or bung, which will do just as well. And
I've lots of sealing-wax
I will have no seal but the seal of Suleyman
For with no other will there be security. Verily I believe that that
accursed sage, thy friend, hath contrived by some cunning to get the
seal once more into his hands. I will go at once to his abode and compel
him to restore it
I wouldn't
He's quite incapable of taking it. And if you go out
now you'll only make a fuss and attract the attention of the Press,
which I thought you rather wanted to avoid
I shall attire myself in the garments of a mortal -- even those I assumed
on a former occasion
Thus shall I escape attention
Wait one moment
What is that bulge in your
breast-pocket
Of a truth
it is indeed the seal
You're in such a hurry to think the worst of everybody, you see
Now, _do_ try to carry away with you into your seclusion a
better opinion of human nature
Perdition to all the people of this age
for I now put no faith in human beings and
would afflict them all, were not the Lord Mayor (on whom be peace!)
mightier than I. Therefore, while it is yet time, take thou the stopper,
and swear that, after I am in this bottle, thou wilt seal it as before
and cast it into deep waters, where no eye will look upon it more
With all the pleasure in the world
only you must keep
_your_ part of the bargain first. You will kindly obliterate all
recollection of yourself and the brass bottle from the minds of every
human being who has had anything to do with you or it
Not so
for thus wouldst thou forget thy
compact
Oh, very well, leave _me_ out, then
Not that anything
could make me forget _you_
It is
accomplished
All recollection of myself and yonder bottle is
now erased from the memories of every one but thyself
But how about my client
I can't afford to lose _him_,
you know
He shall return unto thee
Now perform thy share
Mr. Fakrash
before you go any farther, listen to me.
There's no real necessity, after all, for you to go back to your bottle.
If you'll only wait a little
Wouldst thou still persuade me to linger
Hold thy peace and be ready to fulfil thine undertaking
But, look here
I should feel such a brute if I
sealed you up without telling you
Must I tarry
till the Lord Mayor arrive with his Memlooks,
and the hour of safety is expired? By my head, if thou delayest another
instant, I will put no more faith in thee! And I will come forth once
more, and afflict thee and thy friends -- ay, and all the dwellers in this
accursed city -- with the most painful and unheard-of calamities
SINGULAR OCCURRENCE ON A PENNY
                STEAMER

"A gentleman on board one of the Thames steamboats (so we are informed
by an eye-witness) met with a somewhat ludicrous mishap yesterday
evening. It appears that he had with him a small portmanteau, or large
hand-bag, which he was supporting on the rail of the stern bulwark. Just
as the vessel was opposite the Savoy Hotel he incautiously raised his
hand to the brim of his hat, thereby releasing hold of the bag, which
overbalanced itself and fell into the deepest part of the river, where
it instantly sank. The owner (whose carelessness occasioned considerable
amusement to passengers in his immediate vicinity) appeared no little
disconcerted by the oversight, and was not unnaturally reticent as to
the amount of his loss, though he was understood to state that the bag
contained nothing of any great value. However this may be, he has
probably learnt a lesson which will render him more careful in future
Quite a small and friendly party
Only ourselves, you see, Miss Futvoye, a young lady
with whom you are fairly well acquainted, and her people, and an old
schoolfellow of mine and his wife, who are not yet arrived. He's a man
of considerable eminence
quite worth your cultivating. Sir Lawrence Pountney, his
name is. I don't know if you remember him, but he discharged the onerous
duties of Lord Mayor of London the year before last, and acquitted
himself very creditably -- in fact, he got a baronetcy for it
Delighted, my dear Mr. Ventimore
most delighted to make your acquaintance! I am always
glad to meet a rising young man, and I hear that the house you have
designed for my old friend here is a perfect palace -- a marvel, sir
I knew he was my man
You remember, Pountney, my dear
fellow, that day when we were crossing Westminster Bridge together, and
I was telling you I thought of building? 'Go to one of the leading
men -- an R.A. and all that sort of thing,' you said, 'then you'll be sure
of getting your money's worth.' But I said, 'No, I like to choose for
myself; to -- ah -- exercise my own judgment in these matters. And there's a
young fellow I have in my eye who'll beat 'em all, if he's given the
chance. I'm off to see him now.' And off I went to Great Cloister Street
(for he hadn't those palatial offices of his in Victoria Street at that
time) without losing another instant, and dropped in on him with my
little commission. Didn't I, Ventimore
You did indeed
And
from
that day to this I've never had a moment's reason to regret it. We've
worked in perfect sympathy. His ideas coincided with mine. I think he
found that I met him, so to speak, on all fours
This palm
really
gives quite an Oriental look to the table. Personally, I think we might
reproduce the Arabian style of decoration and arrangement generally in
our homes with great advantage. I often wonder it never occurred to my
future son-in-law there to turn his talents in that direction and design
an Oriental interior for himself. Nothing more comfortable and
luxurious -- for a bachelor's purposes
I'm sure
Horace managed to make himself quite
comfortable enough as it was. He has the most delightful rooms in
Vincent Square
I shall
never forget the first time we dined there, just after my daughter and
he were engaged. I was quite astonished: everything was so
perfect -- quite simple, you know, but _so_ ingeniously arranged, and his
landlady such an excellent cook, too! Still, of course, in many ways, it
will be nicer for him to have a home of his own
With such a beautiful and charming companion to share it with
the -- ah -- poorest home would
prove a Paradise indeed! And I suppose now, my dear young lady
you are busy making your
future abode as exquisite as taste and research can render it,
ransacking all the furniture shops in London for treasures, and going
about to auctions -- or do you -- ah -- delegate that department to Mr.
Ventimore
I do go about to old furniture shops, Sir Lawrence
but not
auctions. I'm afraid I should only get just the thing I didn't want if I
tried to bid.... And
I don't believe _you_ would be a bit more successful, Horace
What makes you say that, Sylvia
Why, do you mean to say you've forgotten how you went to that auction
for papa, and came away without having managed to get a single thing
What a short memory you must have
I was just telling
Mrs. Futvoye
how much I regretted that I had not the
privilege of your acquaintance during my year of office. A Lord Mayor,
as you doubtless know, has exceptional facilities for exercising
hospitality, and it would have afforded me real pleasure if your first
visit to the Guildhall could have been paid under my -- hm -- ha -- auspices
You are very kind
I could not
wish to pay it under better
I flatter myself
that, while in office, I
did my humble best to maintain the traditions of the City, and I was
fortunate enough to have the honour of receiving more than the average
number of celebrities as guests. But I had one great disappointment, I
must tell you. It had always been a dream of mine that it might fall to
my lot to present some distinguished fellow-countryman with the freedom
of the City. By some curious chance, when the opportunity seemed about
to occur, the thing was put off and I missed it -- missed it by the
nearest hair-breadth
Ah, well, Sir Lawrence
one can't have _everything_
For my part
what _I_ miss most is having the sentinels
present arms whenever I went out for a drive. They did it so nicely and
respectfully. I confess I enjoyed that. My husband never cared much for
it. Indeed, he wouldn't even use the State coach unless he was
absolutely obliged. He was as obstinate as a mule about it
I see, Lady Pountney
that you share the common
prejudice against mules. It's quite a mistaken one. The mule has never
been properly appreciated in this country. He is really the gentlest and
most docile of creatures
I can't say I like them myself
such a mongrel
sort of animal -- neither one thing nor the other
And they're hideous too, Anthony
And not at all
clever
There you're mistaken, my dear
they are capable
of almost human intelligence. I have had considerable personal
experience of what a mule can do
More than most people indeed, and I can assure you,
my dear Lady Pountney, that they readily adapt themselves to almost any
environment, and will endure the greatest hardships without exhibiting
any signs of distress. I see by your expression, Ventimore, that you
don't agree with me, eh
Well, sir
I've only chanced to come into close contact with
one mule in my life, and, frankly, I've no desire to repeat the
experience
You happened to come upon an unfavourable specimen, that's all
There are exceptions to every rule
This animal
was certainly exceptional enough in every
way
Do tell us all about it
</text>
