<text>
What can be the matter, my dear
Well, my dear
It is a sudden shock, indeed
I have often felt that we could bear up against any adversity.
I trust in God, that we may be as well able to support prosperity, by
far the hardest task, my dear Campbell, of the two
You are right, Emily
we
are, and have long been, happy
This sudden wealth can not add to our happiness, my dear husband; I
feel it will rather add to our cares; but it may enable us to add to the
happiness of others; and with such feelings, let us receive it with
thankfulness
Very true, Emily; but still we must do our duty in that station of life
to which it has pleased God to call us. Hitherto I have by my profession
been of some benefit to my fellow-creatures; and if in my change of
condition I no more leave my warm bed to relieve their sufferings, at
all events, I shall have the means of employing others so to do. We must
consider ourselves but as the stewards of Him who has bestowed this
great wealth upon us, and employ it as may be acceptable to His
service
There my husband spoke as I felt he would
Those who feel as you do can never be too rich
It appears, my dear husband, that we have been called to take
possession of a property, and to hold for many years that which belongs
to another. We are now called upon to give it up to the rightful owner.
You ask my opinion; surely there is no occasion to do that. We must of
course now, that we know the claim is just, do as we would be done by
That is, my dearest, we must surrender it at once, without any more
litigation. It certainly has been my feeling ever since I have read Mr.
Harvey's letter. Yet it is hard to be beggars
It _is_ hard, my dear husband, if we may use that term; but, at the
same time, it is the will of Heaven. We received the property supposing
it to have been our own; we have, I hope, not misused it during the time
it has been intrusted to us; and, since it pleases Heaven that we should
be deprived of it, let us, at all events, have the satisfaction of
acting conscientiously and justly, and trust to Him for our future
support
I will write immediately
to acquaint Mr.
Harvey, that although I litigated the point as long as the claim was
considered doubtful, now that he informs me that the other party is the
legal heir, I beg that all proceedings may be stopped, as I am willing
to give immediate possession
Do so, my dear
We may be poor, but
I trust we shall still be happy
It is, indeed, a severe trial
but you have done your duty
I care not for myself; I am thinking of my children
They must work
Employment is happiness
Yes, the boys may get on; but those poor girls! what a change will it
be for them
I trust they have not been so badly brought up, Campbell, but that they
will submit with cheerfulness, and be a source of comfort to us both.
Besides, we may not be absolutely beggars
That depends upon the other party. He may claim all arrears of rent;
and if so, we are more than beggars. However, God's will be done. Shall
we receive good, and shall we not receive evil
There's hope, my husband
let us hope for the best
How little do we know what is for our good, short-sighted mortals as we
are
Had not this estate come to us, I should,
by following up my profession as surgeon, in all probability, have
realized a good provision for my children: now, this seeming good turn
of fortune leaves me poor. I am too old now to resume my profession,
and, if I did, have no chance of obtaining the practice which I left.
You see that which appeared to us and every one else the most fortunate
occurrence in my life, has eventually proved the contrary
As far as our limited view of things can enable us to judge, I grant
it
but who knows what might have happened if
we had remained in possession? All is hidden from our view. _He_ acts as
he thinks best for us; and it is for us to submit without repining.
Come, dearest, let us walk out; the air is fresh, and will cool your
heated brow
We are still ruined, my dear
Let us hope _not_
At all events, we now know
the worst of it, and we must look it boldly in the face
I have not so much money as will pay this bill by nearly a thousand
pounds, my dearest wife
It may be so
but still there is the
furniture, the horses, and carriages; surely, they are worth much more
But we have other bills to pay; you forget them
No, I do not; I have been collecting them all, and they do not amount
to more than 300_l._ as near as I can judge; but we have no time to
lose, dearest, and we must show courage
What then do you advise, Emily
We must incur no more expense; our present establishment must be
dismissed at once. Send for all the servants to-morrow morning, and
explain what has occurred. This evening I will make it known to the two
girls and Miss Paterson, who must of course be discharged, as we can no
longer afford a governess. We must retain only the cook, housemaid, and
footman, and a groom to look after the horses until they are sold. Send
a letter to Mr. Bates, the auctioneer, to give notice of an early sale
of the furniture. You must write to Henry; of course, he can no longer
remain at college. We have plenty of time to consider what shall be our
future plans, which must depend much upon what may prove to be our
future means
Thank heaven, that is over
It is quite a relief to my mind
Here's a letter from Alfred, uncle
He has just arrived at Portsmouth, and says the ship is ordered
to be paid off immediately, and his captain is appointed to a fifty-gun
ship, and intends to take him with him. He says he will be here in a few
days, and
And what, dearest
He says his time will be short, but he hopes you won't object to his
bringing two of his messmates down with him
Poor fellow! I am sorry that he will be disappointed
You must write to him, Emma, and tell him what has happened
I must write to him, uncle
Yes, dear Emma, do you write to him
your
uncle and I have much to attend to
I will, since you wish me
Mr. Bates, the auctioneer, wishes to see you, sir
Request that he will walk in
This is very considerate of Mr. Douglas Campbell
of course, my dear, you can have no objection
None whatever; return my best thanks to Mr. Douglas Campbell for his
kindness; and, Mr. Bates, if you can possibly value by to-morrow or next
day, I should esteem it a favor
It shall be done, sir
I'm sorry, Alfred, that I could not give your messmates any
fishing
And so am I, and so were they, for your sakes, my dear father and
mother; but what is, is -- and what can't be helped, can't -- so we must
make the best of it; but where's Henry and my cousins
They are walking in the park, Alfred; you had better join them; they
are most anxious to see you
I will, mother; let us get over these huggings and kissings, and then
we shall be more rational: so good-by for half an hour
His spirits are not subdued, at all events
I
thank God for it
Mary and Emma, perhaps you will now go in; I wish to have some
conversation with Alfred
You are terribly out of heart, Harry
Are things so very bad
They are bad enough, Alfred; but what makes me so low-spirited is, that
I fear my folly has made them worse
How so
The fact is, that my father has but &pound;1,700 left in the world, a sum
small enough; but what annoys me is this. When I was at college, little
imagining such a reverse of fortune, I anticipated my allowance, because
I knew that I could pay at Christmas, and I ran in debt about &pound;200; My
father always cautioned me not to exceed my allowance, and thinks that I
have not done so. Now, I can not bear the idea of leaving college in
debt, and, at the same time, it will be a heavy blow to my poor father,
if he has to part with &pound;200, out of his trifling remainder, to pay my
debt. This is what has made me so unhappy. I can not bear to tell him,
because I feel convinced that he is so honorable, he will pay it
immediately. I am mad with myself, and really do not know what to do. I
do nothing but reproach myself all day, and I can not sleep at night. I
have been very foolish, but I am sure you will kindly enter into my
present feelings. I waited till you came home, because I thought you had
better tell my father the fact, for I feel as if I should die with shame
and vexation
Look you, Harry
as for outrunning the constable, as
we term it at sea, it's a very common thing, and, all things considered,
no great harm done, when you suppose that you have the means, and intend
to pay; so don't lay that to heart. That you would give your right hand
not to have done so, as things have turned out, I really believe; but,
however, there is no occasion to fret any more about it. I have received
three years' pay, and the prize-money for the last eighteen months, and
there is still some more due, for a French privateer. Altogether it
amounts to &pound;250, which I had intended to have made over to my father,
now that he is on a lee-shore; but it will come to the same thing,
whether I give it to you to pay your debts, or give it to him, as he
will pay them, if you do not; so here it is, take what you want, and
hand me over what's left. My father don't know that I have any money,
and now he won't know it; at the same time he won't know that you owe
any; so that squares the account, and he will be as well off as ever
Thank you, my dear Alfred; you don't know what a relief this will be to
my mind. Now I can look my father in his face
I hope you will; we are not troubled with such delicate feelings on
board ship, Harry. I should have told him the truth long before this. I
couldn't bear to keep any thing on my conscience. If this misfortune had
happened last cruise, I should have been just in your position; for I
had a tailor's bill to pay as long as a frigate's pennant, and not
enough in my pocket to buy a mouse's breakfast. Now, let's go in again,
and be as merry as possible, and cheer them up a little
My dear father and mother, if you can not between you hit upon any
plan, I am afraid it is not likely that I can assist you. All I have to
say is, that whatever may be decided upon, I shall most cheerfully do my
duty toward you and my brothers and sisters. My education has not been
one likely to be very useful to a poor man, but I am ready to work with
my hands as well as with my head, to the best of my abilities
That I am sure of, my dear boy
Now, Alfred, we
must look to you as our last hope, for your two cousins are not likely
to give us much advice
Well, father, I have been thinking a good deal about it, and I have a
proposal to make which may at first startle you, but it appears to me
that it is our only, and our best, resource. The few hundred pounds
which you have left are of no use in this country, except to keep you
from starving for a year or two; but in another country they may be made
to be worth as many thousands. In this country, a large family becomes a
heavy charge and expense; in another country, the more children you
have, the richer man you are. If, therefore, you would consent to
transport your family and your present means into another country,
instead of being a poor, you might be a rich man
What country is that, Alfred
Why, father, the purser of our ship had a brother, who, soon after the
French were beaten out of the Canadas, went out there to try his
fortune. He had only three hundred pounds in the world: he has been
there now about four years, and I read a letter from him which the
purser received when the frigate arrived at Portsmouth, in which he
states that he is doing well, and getting rich fast; that he has a farm
of five hundred acres, of which two hundred are cleared; and that if he
only had some children large enough to help him, he would soon be worth
ten times the money, as he would purchase more land immediately. Land is
to be bought there at a dollar an acre, and you may pick and choose.
With your money, you might buy a large property; with your children, you
might improve it fast; and in a few years, you would at all events be
comfortable, if not flourishing, in your circumstances. Your children
would work for you, and you would have the satisfaction of knowing that
you left them independent and happy
I acknowledge, my dear boy, that you have struck upon a plan which has
much to recommend it. Still there are drawbacks
Drawbacks
yes, to be sure, there are; if estates
were to be picked up for merely going out for them, there would not be
many left for you to choose; but, my dear father, I know no drawbacks
which can not be surmounted. Let us see what these drawbacks are. First,
hard labor; occasional privation; a log hut, till we can get a better;
severe winter; isolation from the world; occasional danger, even from
wild beasts and savages. I grant these are but sorry exchanges for such
a splendid mansion as this -- fine furniture, excellent cooking, polished
society, and the interest one feels for what is going on in our own
country, which is daily communicated to us. Now, as to hard labor, I and
Henry will take as much of that off your hands as we can: if the winter
is severe, there is no want of firewood; if the cabin is rude, at least
we will make it comfortable; if we are shut out from the world, we shall
have society enough among ourselves; if we are in danger, we will have
firearms and stout hearts to defend ourselves; and, really, I do not see
but we may be very happy, very comfortable, and, at all events, very
independent
Alfred, you talk as if you were going with us
And do you think that I am not, my dear mother? Do you imagine that I
would remain here when you were there, and my presence would be useful?
No -- no -- I love the service, it is true, but I know my duty, which is,
to assist my father and mother: in fact, I prefer it; a midshipman's
ideas of independence are very great; and I had rather range the wilds
of America free and independent, than remain in the service, and have to
touch my hat to every junior lieutenant, perhaps for twenty years to
come. If you go, I go, that is certain. Why, I should be miserable if
you went without me; I should dream every night that an Indian had run
away with Mary, or that a bear had eaten up my little Emma
Well, I'll take my chance of the Indian
And I of the bear
Perhaps he'll only hug me as tight as
Alfred did when he came home
Thank you, miss, for the comparison
I certainly consider that your proposal, Alfred, merits due
reflection
Your father and I will consult,
and perhaps by to-morrow morning we may have come to a decision. Now we
had better all go to bed
I shall dream of the Indian, I am sure
And I shall dream of the bear
And I shall dream of a very pretty girl -- that I saw at Portsmouth
I don't believe you
My dear children, last night, after you had left us, your mother and I
had a long consultation, and we have decided that we have no alternative
left us but to follow the advice which Alfred has given: if, then, you
are all of the same opinion as we are, we have resolved that we will try
our fortunes in the Canadas
I am certainly of that opinion
And you, my girls
We will follow you to the end of the world, uncle
and
try if we can by any means in our power repay your kindness to two poor
orphans
And now that we have come to a decision, we must commence our
arrangements immediately. How shall we dispose of ourselves? Come,
Alfred and Henry, what do you propose doing
I must return immediately to Oxford, to settle my affairs, and dispose
of my books and other property
Shall you have sufficient money, my dear boy, to pay every thing
Yes, my dear father
And I
presume that I can be of no use here; therefore I
propose that I should start for Liverpool this afternoon by the coach,
for it is from Liverpool that we had better embark. I shall first write
to our purser for what information he can procure, and obtain all I can
at Liverpool from other people. As soon as I have any thing to
communicate, I will write
Write as soon as you arrive, Alfred, whether you have any thing to
communicate or not; at all events, we shall know of your safe arrival
I will, my dear mother
Have you money, Alfred
Yes, quite sufficient, father. I don't travel with four horses
Well, then, we will remain here to pack up, Alfred; and you must look
out for some moderate lodging for us to go into as soon as we arrive at
Liverpool. At what time do the ships sail for Quebec
Just about this time, father. This is March, and they will now sail
every week almost. The sooner we are off the better, that we may be
comfortably housed in before the winter
Never mind, Mary
we have our guitars, and may have music
in the woods of Canada without harp or piano
I have done my duty. It is hard, after having served
so long, and now just arrived at the time in which I have reason to
expect my reward -- to rise in the service -- distinguish myself by my zeal,
and obtain a reputation, which, if it pleased God, I would have
done -- very hard, to have to leave it now, and to be hid in the woods,
with an ax in my hand; but how could I leave my father, my mother, and
my brothers and sisters, to encounter so much difficulty and privation
by themselves, when I have a strong arm to help them! No! no!-- I have
done my duty to those who ever did their duty to me, and I trust that my
own conscience will prove my reward, and check that repining which we
are too apt to feel when it pleases Heaven to blight what appears to be
our fairest prospects ... I say, my good fellow
what is the name of that fifty-gun ship
I don't know which ship has fifty guns, or which has a hundred
but if you mean the biggest of the three, she is
called the Portsmouth
The Portsmouth! the very ship Captain Lumley was appointed to
I must go on board
Well, Mr. Campbell
so you have joined us at
last; better late than never. You're but just in time. I thought you
would soon get over that foolish whim of yours, which you mentioned in
your letter to me, of leaving the service, just after you had passed,
and had such good chance of promotion. What could have put it in your
head
Nothing, sir
but my duty to my parents. It is a most
painful step for me to take, but I leave you to judge whether I can do
otherwise
I think you are right, my boy, and it does you
honor. Where you are going to, I have no doubt but your courage and your
protection will be most important. Yet it is a pity you should be lost
to the service
I feel most sincerely, sir, I assure you, but
But you sacrifice yourself; I know that. I admire the resolution of
your father and mother. Few could have the courage to have taken such a
step -- few women, especially, I shall call upon them, and pay my
respects. In half an hour I shall be ready, and you shall accompany me,
and introduce me. In the meantime you can go and see your old
messmates
I presume that, much
as you may require your son's assistance on your arrival at Canada, you
can dispense with his presence on board of this vessel. My reason for
making this observation is that no chance should ever be thrown away.
One of my lieutenants wishes to leave the ship on family concerns. He
has applied to me, and I have considered it my duty to refuse him, now
that we are on the point of sailing, and I am unable to procure another.
But for your son's sake, I will now permit him to go, and will, if you
will allow him to come on board of the Portsmouth, give Alfred an acting
lieutenant's order. Should any thing occur on the passage out, and it is
not at all impossible, it will insure his promotion; even if nothing
occurs, I will have his acting order confirmed. At Quebec, he shall, of
course, leave the ship, and go with you. I don't pretend to detain him
from his duty; but you will observe, that if he does obtain his rank, he
will also obtain his half-pay, which, if he remains in Canada with you,
will be a great assistance; and if things should turn out so well, that
you can, after a year or two, do without him, and allow him to return to
the service, he will then have already gained the most important step,
and will, I have no doubt, soon rise to the command of a ship. I will
give you till to-morrow to decide. Alfred can come on board in the
morning, and let me know
I think I may say, Captain Lumley
that my
husband could have but one reason in hesitating a moment, and that is,
to ascertain whether I should like to part with my son during our
passage out. I should, indeed, be a very weak woman, if I did not make
such a trifling sacrifice for his benefit, and, at the time, feel most
grateful to you for your kind intentions toward him. I rather think that
Mr. Campbell will not find it necessary to have till to-morrow morning
to consider the proposal; but I leave him to answer for himself
I can assure you, Captain Lumley, that Mrs. Campbell has only expressed
my own feelings, and, as far as we are concerned, your offer is most
gratefully accepted
Then, Alfred
has only to make his appearance
on board of the Portsmouth to-morrow morning, and he will find his
acting order ready for him. We sail, I believe, the day after, if the
weather is at all favorable; so, if I have not another opportunity to
pay my respects to you, you must allow me to say farewell now. I shall
keep my eye upon your vessel during the passage; at all events, Alfred
will, I'm very sure
I perceive you have some attractions in your party.
It is quite melancholy to think that those pretty cousins of yours
should be buried in the woods of Canada. To-morrow, at nine o'clock,
then, I shall expect you.-- Adieu
Captain Wilson, you sail so well, that I hope you will keep close to us
all the passage out
Except you happen to come to action with an enemy, and then I shall
haul off to a respectful distance, Mr. Alfred
That, of course. Cannon-balls were never invented for ladies, although
they have no objection to balls,-- have they Emma? Well, good-by once
more. You can often see me with the spy-glass if you feel inclined.
Recollect that
_Vive la Republique
She is ours now
Yes, sir,-- fast enough. I think, if the fog were to clear away, they
would haul down their colors
Not till the last, depend upon it
Fire away
there, on the main-deck, give them no time to take breath. Mr. Campbell,
tell the second lieutenant to let the foremost lower deck guns be
pointed more aft. I say, not till the last
these republicans will take a good deal of
beating, even upon the water
It's clearing up, sir, to the northward a little
I see -- yes, it is
Well, the sooner the
better: we shall see what has become of all the shot we have been
throwing away
She can't stand this long
Fire away, my
lads
The Circe and Vixen are coming down to us, sir
we do not want them, and they will only be an excuse for
the Frenchman to surrender to a superior force. If they recaptured the
vessels taken, they would be of some service
Very true. Mr. Campbell, make their signal to pursue captured
vessels
How I should like to see him
Yes, madam
but they have too much to do on
board of the Portsmouth just now; they have to repair damages and to
look after the wounded; they have a great quantity of prisoners on
board, as you may see, for a great many are now on the booms; they have
no time for compliments
That is very true
we must wait till we arrive
at Quebec
But we did not see Alfred
No, miss, because he was busy enough below, and I dare say no one told
him. They have said that all's well, and that is sufficient; and now we
must haul off again, for with such a heavy ship in tow, Captain Lumley
will not thank me if I am always coming so close to him
I am satisfied, Captain Wilson; pray do nothing that might displease
Captain Lumley. We shall soon see Alfred, I dare say, with the
spy-glass
I see him now
he has his telescope, and he is
waving his hat to me
Thank God
now I am satisfied
Captain Wilson
what animals are those, tumbling about and blowing,-- those great white
things
They are what are called the white whale, Percival
they are not often seen, except about here
Then what is the color of the other whales
The northern whales are black -- they are called the black whales; but
the southern, or spermaceti whales, are not so dark in color
Well John
what was Captain Wilson telling you about
Whales
Well, but is that all you can tell me, John
Yes
At all events, Miss Emma, he keeps all his knowledge to himself
Yes; I shall know nothing about the whale-fishery, unless you will
condescend to tell me yourself, that is evident
Well, Mrs. Campbell
you must congratulate me on my having captured a vessel
somewhat larger than my own; and I must congratulate you on the conduct
and certain promotion of your son Alfred. He has richly deserved it
I am very thankful, Captain Lumley, and do most heartily congratulate
you
I only regret that my boy has been
wounded
The very thing that you should, on the contrary, be thankful for, Mrs.
Campbell
It is the most fortunate wound in
the world, as it not only adds to his claims, but enables me to let him
join you and go to Canada with you, without it being supposed that he
has quitted the service
How so, Captain Lumley
I can discharge him to sick-quarters here at Quebec. If they think any
thing about it at all at home, it will be that his wound is much more
severe than it really is; and he can remain on half-pay as long as he
pleases. There are plenty ready to be employed. But I can not wait any
longer. I am going on shore to call upon the Governor, and I thought I
would just see you on my way. You may assure yourselves that if I can be
of any use to you, I will not fail to exert any little influence I may
have
Heaven sends us friends when we most need them and least expect them
Who would
have imagined, when we anchored at Cork, that such good fortune should
have awaited us; and that, at the very time Alfred had given up his
profession for our sake, his promotion in the service was awaiting him
I am glad to have met you, Mrs. Campbell
I
found on paying my respects to the Governor, that there is what they
call the Admiralty House here, which is kept furnished by Government for
the senior officers of his Majesty's ships. It is at my disposal; and as
the Governor has requested me to take up my abode at Government House, I
beg you will consider it at your service. You will find better
accommodation there than in lodgings, and it will save you considerable
expense
We need look no further, Mrs. Campbell
Oh, Alfred, how much we are indebted to you, my dear boy
To me, mother?-- to Captain Lumley, I should rather think
Yes, to Captain Lumley, I grant; but still it has been your good
conduct when under his command which has made him attached to you; and
it is to that we owe his acquaintance, and all the kindness we have
received from him
I feel, of course, a strong interest in any English family so well
brought up, and accustomed, as I find yours has been, to luxury, being
placed in such a situation; and the interest which my old friend,
Captain Lumley, takes in you, is quite sufficient to induce me to offer
you every assistance in my power: that you may depend upon, Mr.
Campbell. The Surveyor-General is coming here immediately, I must first
introduce you to him, as it is from him that the land must be obtained,
and of course he can advise you well on the point of locality; but you
must recollect that it is not much more than thirty years since these
provinces have been surrendered to Great Britain, and that not only the
French population, but the Indians, are very hostile to the English, for
the Indians were, and still are, firm allies to the French, and detest
us. I have been reflecting upon the affair, and I hope to be of some
service to you: if I am not, it will not, I assure you, be from any want
of will; under every advantage which may be procured for you, at all
events, you will require stout hearts and able hands. Your son Alfred
will be of great service, but we must try and procure you some other
assistance that can be trusted
The land that I would propose to Mr. Campbell
if there is no objection to part with
it, is a portion of what has been laid aside as Government reserve on
this part of the Lake Ontario; there are lands to be obtained nearer to
Montreal, but all the land of good quality has been purchased. This
land, you will observe, Mr. Campbell, is peculiarly good, having some
few acres of what we call prairie, or natural meadow. It has also the
advantage of running with a large frontage on the beach, and there is a
small river on one side of it; besides, it is not a great distance,
perhaps four or five miles, from Fort Frontignac, and it might be easy
to obtain assistance if required
Mr. Campbell
this is my friend Martin Super; I
have spoken to him, and he has consented to take service for one year,
and he will remain, if he is satisfied. If he serves you as well as he
has served me when I have traveled through the country, I have no doubt
but you will find him a valuable assistant
Now, Martin Super, I will read the terms of the agreement between you
and Mr. Campbell, that you may see if all is as you wish
Mr. Campbell, if you are satisfied, you may now sign it; Martin shall
do the same
Surveyor, I don't know how my name is spelt; and if I did, I couldn't
write it, so I must do it Indian fashion, and put my totem to it
What is your name among the Indians, Martin
The Painter
There, that's my name
as near as I can draw it
Very good
here is the document all
right, Mr. Campbell. Ladies, I fear I must run away, for I have an
engagement. I will leave Martin Super, Mr. Campbell, as you would
probably like a little conversation together
Super
I hope we
shall be very good friends, but now tell me what you mean by
your -- totem, I think you called it
Why, ma'am, a totem is an Indian's mark, and you know I am almost an
Indian myself. All the Indian chiefs have their totems. One is called
the Great Otter; another the Serpent, and so on, and so they sign a
figure like the animal they are named from. Then, ma'am, you see, we
trappers, who almost live with them, have names given to us also and
they have called me the Painter
Why did they name you the Painter
Because I killed two of them in one day
Killed two painters
Yes, miss; killed them both with my rifle
But why did you kill the men
was it in battle
Kill the men, miss; I said nothing about men; I said I killed two
painters
What is a painter, then, Super
Why, it's an animal, and a very awkward creature, I can tell you,
sometimes
The drawing is something like a panther, mamma
Well, miss, it may be a panther, but we only know them by the other
name
Do you know the part of the country where we are going to
Yes, I have trapped thereabouts for months, but the beavers are scarce
now
Are there any other animals there
Yes
small game, as we term it
What sort are they
Why, there's painters, and bears, and catamounts
Mercy on us! do you call that small game? why, what must the large be,
then
Buffaloes, missus, is what we call big game
But the animals you speak of are not good eating, Super
is there no game that we can eat
Oh, yes, plenty of deer and wild turkey, and bear's good eating, I
reckon
Ah! that sounds better
You said something about guns
what sort of guns did
you mean
We have three fowling-pieces and three muskets, besides pistols
Fowling-pieces,-- they are bird-guns, I believe,-- no use at all; muskets
are soldiers' tools,-- no use; pistols are pops, and nothing better. You
have no rifles; you can't go into the woods without rifles. I have got
mine, but you must have some
Well, I believe you are right, Martin; it never occurred to me. How
many ought we to have
Well, that's according -- how many be you in family
We are five males and three females
Well, then, sir, say ten rifles; that will be quite sufficient. Two
spare ones in case of accident
Why, Martin
you do not mean that the children
and these young ladies and I are to fire off rifles
I do mean to say, ma'am, that before I was as old as that little boy
I could hit a mark well; and a woman ought at least
to know how to prime and load a rifle, even if she does not fire it
herself. It is a deadly weapon, ma'am, and the greatest leveler in
creation, for the trigger pulled by a child will settle the business of
the stoutest man. I don't mean to say that we may be called to use them
in that way, but it's always better to have them, and to let other
people know that you have them, and all ready loaded too, if required
Well, Martin
I agree with you, it is better to be
well prepared. We will have the ten rifles, if we can afford to purchase
them. What will they cost
About sixteen dollars will purchase the best, sir; but I think I had
better choose them for you, and try them before you purchase
Do so, then, Super; Alfred will go with you as soon as he comes back,
and you and he can settle the matter
Why, Super
you have quite frightened us
women at the idea of so many firearms being required
If Pontiac was alive, missus, they would all be required, but he's gone
now; still there are many outlying Indians, as we call them, who are no
better than they should be; and I always like to see rifles ready
loaded. Why, ma'am, suppose now that all the men were out in the woods,
and a bear should pay you a visit during your absence, would it not be
just as well for to have a loaded rifle ready for him; and would not you
or the young misses willingly prefer to pull the trigger at him than to
be hugged in his fashion
Martin Super, you have quite convinced me: I shall not only learn to
load a rifle but to fire one also
And I'll teach the boys the use of them, ma'am, and they will then add
to your defense
You shall do so, Martin
I am convinced that
you are quite right
I hope, my dear, that you and the girls are not
terrified by the remarks of Martin. It is necessary to be well armed
when isolated as we shall be, and so far from any assistance; but it
does not follow, because we ought to be prepared against danger, that
such danger should occur
I can answer for myself, my dear Campbell
I am
prepared, if necessary, to meet danger, and do what a weak woman can do;
and I feel what Martin says is but too true, that with a rifle in hand,
a woman or a child is on a par with the strongest man
And I, my dear uncle
shall, I trust, with the
blessing of God, know how to do my duty, however peculiar the
circumstances may be to a female
And I, my dear uncle
infinitely prefer
firing off a rifle to being hugged by a bear or an Indian, because of
two evils one should always choose the least
Well, then, I see Martin has done no harm, but, on the contrary, he has
done good. It is always best to be prepared for the worst, and to trust
to Providence for aid in peril
How very beautiful the foliage is on that point, mother
what a contrast between the leaves of the
sycamore, so transparent and yellow, with the sun behind them, and the
new shoots of the spruce fir
It is, indeed, very lovely
and the branches
of the trees, feathering down as they do to the surface of the water
Like good Samaritans
extending their arms, that any
unfortunate drowning person who was swept away by the stream might save
himself by their assistance
I had no idea that trees had so much charity or reflection, Emma
I can not answer for their charity, but, by the side of this clear
water, you must allow them reflection, cousin
I presume you will add vanity to their attributes
for they certainly appear to be hanging over the stream that they may
look and admire themselves in the glassy mirror
Pretty well that for a midshipman; I was not aware that they used such
choice language in a cockpit
Perhaps not, cousin
but when sailors are in the
company of ladies, they become refined, from the association
Well, I must admit, Alfred, that you are a great deal more polished
after you have been a month on shore
Thank you, cousin Emma, even for that slight admission
But what is that
at the point, it is a
village -- one, two, three houses -- just opening upon us
That is a raft, Miss Percival, which is coming down the river
You will see when we are nearer to it, that perhaps
it covers two acres of water, and there are three tiers of timber on it.
These rafts are worth many thousand pounds. They are first framed with
logs, fastened by wooden tree-nails, and the timber placed within the
frame. There are, perhaps, from forty to a hundred people on this raft
to guide it down the stream, and the houses you see are built on it for
the accommodation of these people. I have seen as many as fifteen houses
upon a raft, which will sometimes contain the cargoes of thirty or forty
large ships
It is very wonderful how they guide and direct it down the stream
It is very dexterous; and it seems strange that such an enormous mass
can be so guided, but it is done, as you will perceive; there are three
or four rudders made of long sweeps, and, as you may observe, several
sweeps on each side
Our man Super mentioned that name before. I confess that I do not know
any thing of Canadian affairs; I know only that Pontiac was an Indian
chief. Can you, Captain Sinclair, give us any information relative to a
person who appears so well known in the province
I shall be happy, Mrs. Campbell, as far as I am able, to satisfy you.
On one point, I can certainly speak with confidence, as my uncle was one
of the detachment in the fort of Detroit at the time that it was so
nearly surprised, and he has often told the history of the affair in my
presence. Pontiac was chief of all the Lake tribes of Indians. I will
not repeat the names of the different tribes, but his own particular
tribe was that of the Ottawas. He ruled at the time that the Canadas
were surrendered to us by the French. At first, although very proud and
haughty, and claiming the sovereignty of the country, he was very civil
to the English, or at least appeared so to be; for the French had given
us so bad a reputation with all the northern tribes, that they had
hitherto shown nothing but the most determined hostility, and appeared
to hate our very name. They are now inclined to be quiet, and it is to
be hoped their fear of us, after the severe conflicts between us, will
induce them to remain so. You are, perhaps, aware that the French had
built many forts at the most commanding spots in the interior and on the
lakes, all of which, when they gave up the country, were garrisoned by
our troops, to keep the Indians under control.

"All these forts are isolated, and communication between them is rare.
It was in 1763 that Pontiac first showed his hostility against us, and
his determination, if possible, to drive us from the lakes. He was as
cunning as he was brave; and, as an Indian, showed more generalship than
might be expected -- that is, according to their system of war, which is
always based upon stratagem. His plan of operation was, to surprise all
our forts at the same time, if he possibly could; and so excellent were
his arrangements, that it was only fifteen days after the plan was first
laid that he succeeded in gaining possession of all but three; that is,
he surprised ten out of thirteen forts. Of course, the attacks were made
by other chiefs, under his directions, as Pontiac could not be at all
the simultaneous assaults
Did he murder the garrisons, Capt. Sinclair
The major portion of them: some were spared, and afterward were
ransomed at high prices. I ought to have mentioned as a singular
instance of the advance of this chief in comparison with other Indians,
that at this time he issued bills of credit on slips of bark, signed
with his totem, the otter; and that these bills, unlike many of more
civilized society, were all taken up and paid
That is very remarkable in a savage
but how
did this Pontiac contrive to surprise all the forts
Almost the whole of them were taken by a singular stratagem. The
Indians are very partial to, and exceedingly dexterous at, a game called
the 'Baggatiway:' it is played with a ball and a long-handled sort of
racket. They divide into two parties, and the object of each party is to
drive the ball to their own goal. It is something like hurley in England
or golf in Scotland. Many hundreds are sometimes engaged on both sides;
and the Europeans are so fond of seeing the activity and dexterity shown
by the Indians at this game, that it was very common to request them to
play it, when they happened to be near the forts. Upon this, Pontiac
arranged his plan, which was that his Indians should commence the game
of ball under the forts, and after playing a short time, strike the ball
into the fort: of course, some of them would go in for it; and having
done this two or three times, and recommenced the play to avoid
suspicion, they were to strike it over again, and follow it up by a rush
after it through the gates: and then, when they were all in, they would
draw their concealed weapons, and overpower the unsuspicious garrison
It was certainly a very ingenious stratagem
And it succeeded, as I have observed, except on three forts. The one
which Pontiac directed the attack upon himself, and which was that which
he was most anxious to obtain, was Detroit, in which, as I have before
observed, my uncle was garrisoned; but there he failed, and by a
singular circumstance
Pray tell us how, Captain Sinclair
you don't know how
much you have interested me
And me, too, Captain Sinclair
I am very happy that I have been able to wear away any portion of your
tedious journey, Miss Percival, so I shall proceed with my history.

"The fort of Detroit was garrisoned by about three hundred men, when
Pontiac arrived there with a large force of Indians, and encamped under
the walls, but he had his warriors so mixed up with the women and
children, and brought so many articles for trade, that no suspicion was
created. The garrison had not heard of the capture of the other forts
which had already taken place. At the same time the unusual number of
the Indians was pointed out to Major Gladwin, who commanded the fort,
but he had no suspicions. Pontiac sent word to the major, that he wished
to 'have a talk' with him, in order to cement more fully the friendship
between the Indians and the English; and to this Major Gladwin
consented, appointing the next day to receive Pontiac and his chiefs in
the fort.

"Now it so happened, that Major Gladwin had employed an Indian woman to
make him a pair of moccasins out of a very curious marked elk-skin. The
Indian woman brought him the moccasins with the remainder of the skin.
The Major was so pleased with them that he ordered her to make him a
second pair of moccasins out of the skin, and then told her that she
might keep the remainder for herself. The woman having received the
order, quitted the Major, but instead of leaving the fort, remained
loitering about till she was observed, and they inquired why she did not
go. She replied, that she wanted to return the rest of the skin, as he
set so great a value on it; and as this appeared strange conduct, she
was questioned, and then she said, that if she took away the skin then,
she never would be able to return it.

"Major Gladwin sent for the woman, upon hearing of the expressions which
she had used, and it was evident that she wanted to communicate
something, but was afraid; but on being pressed hard and encouraged, and
assured of protection, she then informed Major Gladwin, that Pontiac and
his chiefs were to come into the fort to-morrow, under the plea of
holding a talk; but that they had cut the barrels of their rifles short,
to conceal them under their blankets, and that it was their intention,
at a signal given by Pontiac, to murder Major Gladwin and all his
officers who were at the council; while the other warriors, who would
also come into the fort with concealed arms, under pretense of trading,
would attack the garrison outside.

"Having obtained this information, Major Gladwin did all he could to put
the fort into a state of defense, and took every necessary precaution.
He made known to the officers and men what the intentions of the Indians
were, and instructed the officers how to act at the council, and the
garrison how to meet the pretended traders outside.

"About ten o'clock, Pontiac and his thirty-six chiefs, with a train of
warriors, came into the fort to their pretended council, and were
received with great politeness. Pontiac made his speech, and when he
came forward to present the wampum belt, the receipt of which by the
Major was, as the Indian woman had informed them, to be the signal for
the chiefs and warriors to commence the assault, the Major and his
officers drew their swords half out of their scabbards, and the troops,
with their muskets loaded and bayonets fixed, appeared outside and in
the council-room, all ready to present. Pontiac, brave as he really was,
turned pale: he perceived that he was discovered, and consequently, to
avoid any open detection, he finished his speech with many professions
of regard for the English. Major Gladwin then rose to reply to him, and
immediately informed him that he was aware of his plot and his murderous
intentions. Pontiac denied it; but Major Gladwin stepped to the chief,
and drawing aside his blanket, exposed his rifle cut short, which left
Pontiac and his chiefs without a word to say in reply. Major Gladwin
then desired Pontiac to quit the fort immediately, as otherwise he
should not be able to restrain the indignation of the soldiers, who
would immolate him and all his followers who were outside of the fort.
Pontiac and his chiefs did not wait for a second intimation, but made
all the haste they could to get outside of the gates
Was it prudent in Major Gladwin to allow Pontiac and his chiefs to
leave, after they had come into the fort with an intent to murder him
and his men
Would not the Major have been
justified in detaining them
I certainly think he would have been, and so did my uncle, but Major
Gladwin thought otherwise. He said that he had promised safe conduct and
protection to and from the fort before he was aware of the conspiracy;
and, having made a promise, his honor would not allow him to depart from
it
At all events, the Major, if he erred, erred on the right side
I think myself that he was too scrupulous, and that I
in his place should have detained some of them, if not Pontiac himself,
as a hostage for the good behavior of the rest of the tribes
The result proved that if Major Gladwin had done so he would have done
wisely; for the next day Pontiac, not at all disarmed by Major Gladwin's
clemency, made a most furious attack upon the fort. Every stratagem was
resorted to, but the attack failed. Pontiac then invested it, cut off
all their supplies, and the garrison was reduced to great distress. But
I must break off now, for here we are at Trois Rivieres, where we shall
remain for the night, I hope you will not find your accommodations very
uncomfortable, Mrs. Campbell: I fear as we advance you will have to put
up with worse
And we are fully prepared for it, Captain Sinclair
but my wife and my nieces have too much good sense to expect
London hotels in the wilds of Canada
About fifty miles if we possibly can
We
have made seventy-two miles in the first two days; but from here to
Montreal, it is about ninety, and we are anxious to get the best part
over to-day, so that we may land on a cleared spot which we know of, and
that I feel quite sure in; for, I regret to say you must trust to your
tents and your own bedding for the night, as there is no habitation
large enough to receive us on the river's side, any where near where we
wish to arrive
Never mind, Captain Sinclair, we shall sleep very well, I dare say
but where do all the rest of the party
sleep?-- there is only one tent
Oh! never mind the rest of the party; we are used to it, and your
gentlemen won't mind it; some will sleep in the _bateaux_, some at the
fire, some will watch and not sleep at all
You had not, I believe, Captain Sinclair, quite finished your
account of Pontiac where you left off yesterday, at the time when he was
blocking the fort at Detroit. Will you oblige us by stating what
afterward took place
With great pleasure, Miss Percival. There was great difficulty in
relieving the fort, as all communication had been cut off; at last the
Governor sent his aide-de-camp, Captain Dalyell, who contrived to throw
himself in the fort with about two hundred and fifty men. He shortly
afterward sallied out to attack the intrenchments of the Indians, but
Pontiac having received intelligence of his intention, laid an ambuscade
for him, beat back the troops with great loss, and poor Dalyell fell in
the combat, that took place near a bridge which still goes by the name
of Bloody Bridge. Pontiac cut off the head of Captain Dalyell, and set
it upon a post
So much for Major Gladwin's extreme sense of honor
had he detained Pontiac as a prisoner, nothing of this would have
happened
I agree with you, Mr. Alfred
it was
letting loose a wolf; but Major Gladwin thought he was doing what was
right, and therefore can not be well blamed. After this defeat, the
investment was more strict than ever, and the garrison suffered
dreadfully. Several vessels which were sent out to supply the garrison
fell into the hands of Pontiac, who treated the men very cruelly. What
with the loss of men and constant watching, as well as the want of
provisions, the garrison was reduced to the greatest privations. At last
a schooner came off with supplies, which Pontiac, as usual, attacked
with his warriors in their canoes. The schooner was obliged to stand out
again, but the Indians followed, and by their incessant fire killed or
wounded almost every man on board her, and at length boarded and took
possession. As they were climbing up the shrouds and over the gunnel of
the vessel, the captain of the vessel, who was a most determined man,
and resolved not to fall into the hands of the Indians, called out to
the gunner to set fire to the magazine, and blow them all up together.
This order was heard by one of Pontiac's chiefs acquainted with English;
he cried out to one of the other Indians, and sprang away from the
vessel; the other Indians followed him, and hurried away in their
canoes, or by swimming as fast as they could from the vessel. The
captain took advantage of the wind and arrived safe at the fort; and
thus was the garrison relieved and those in the fort saved from
destruction by the courage of this one man
You say that Pontiac is now dead, at least Martin Super told us so. How
did he die, Captain Sinclair
He was killed by an Indian, but it is difficult to say why. For many
years he had made friends with us and he had received a liberal pension
from the Government; but it appears that his hatred against the English
had again broken out, and in a council held by the Indians, he proposed
assailing us anew. After he had spoken, an Indian buried his knife in
his heart, but whether to gratify a private animosity or to avoid a
further warfare with those who had always thinned their tribes, it is
difficult to ascertain. One thing is certain, that most of the Indian
animosity against the English is buried with him
Thank you, Captain Sinclair
for taking so much
trouble. I think Pontiac's history is a very interesting one
There was much to admire and much to deplore in his character, and we
must not judge the Indian too harshly. He was formed for command, and
possessed great courage and skill in all his arrangements, independent
of his having the tact to keep all the Lake tribes of Indians
combined,-- no very easy task. That he should have endeavored to drive us
away from those lands of which he considered himself (and very correctly
too) as the sovereign, is not to be wondered at, especially as our
encroachments daily increased. The great fault of his character, in our
eyes, was his treachery; but we must remember that the whole art of
Indian warfare is based upon stratagem
But his attacking the fort after he had been so generously dismissed
when his intentions were known, was surely very base
What we consider a generous dismissal, he probably mistook for folly
and weakness. The Indians have no idea of generosity in warfare. Had
Pontiac been shot, he would have died bravely, and he had no idea that,
because Major Gladwin did not think proper to take his life, he was
therefore bound to let us remain in possession of his lands. But
whatever treachery the Indians consider allowable and proper in warfare,
it is not a portion of the Indian character; for at any other time his
hospitality and good faith are not to be doubted, if he pledges himself
for your safety. It is a pity that they are not Christians. Surely it
would make a great improvement in a character which, even in its
unenlightened state, has in it much to be admired.

"When the form of worship and creed is simple, it is difficult to make
converts, and the Indian is a clear reasoner. I once had a conversation
with one of the chiefs on the subject. After we had conversed for some
time, he said, 'You believe in one God -- so do we; you call him by one
name -- we call him another; we don't speak the same language, that is the
reason. You say, suppose you do good, you go to the land of Good
Spirits -- we say so too. Then Indians and Yangees (that is English) both
try to gain the same object, only try in not the same way. Now I think
it much better that, as we all go along together, that every man paddle
his own canoe. That is my thought
It is, as you say, Captain Sinclair, difficult to argue with men who
look so straight forward and are so practical in their ideas.
Nevertheless
a false creed must often lead to
false conduct; and whatever is estimable in the Indian character would
be strengthened and improved by the infusion of Christian principles and
Christian hopes,-- so that I must still consider it very desirable that
the Indians should become Christians,-- and I trust that by judicious and
discreet measures such a result may gradually be brought about
Est-il
possible
My dear wife and children, we have
thus far proceeded without serious casualty: it has pleased the Almighty
to conduct us safely over a boisterous sea, to keep our spirits up by
providing us with unexpected friends and support, and we now have
arrived within a few miles of our destination. But let us not suppose
that our perils and difficulties are terminated; on the contrary,
without wishing to dishearten you, I feel that they are about to
commence. We have much privation, much fatigue, and, perhaps, much
danger to encounter, before we can expect to be in comfort or in
security; but we must put our trust in that gracious Providence which
has hitherto so mercifully preserved us, and at the same time not relax
in our own energy and industry, which must ever accompany our faith in
the Divine aid. It is long since we have had an opportunity of being
gathered together and alone. Let us seize this opportunity of pouring
out our thanks to God for his mercies already vouchsafed, and praying
for a continuance of his protection. Even in the wilderness, let us walk
with Him, trust in Him, and ever keep Him in our thoughts. We must bear
in mind that this entire life is but a pilgrimage; that if, during its
course, we should meet with affliction or distress, it is His
appointment, and designed undoubtedly for our good. It is our wisdom, as
well as duty to submit patiently to whatever may befall us, never losing
our courage or becoming disheartened by suffering, but trusting to the
mercy and power of Him who can and will, at His own good time, deliver
us from evil
This is very beautiful, is it not
surely it can
not be so great a hardship to live in a spot like this
Not if it were always so, perhaps, madam
But Canada
in the month of June is very different from Canada in the month of
January. That we find our life monotonous in this fort, separated as we
are from the rest of the world, I admit, and the winters are so long and
severe as to tire our patience; but soldiers must do their duty, whether
burning under the tropics or freezing in the wilds of Canada. It can not
be a very agreeable life, when even the report of danger near to us
becomes a pleasurable feeling from the excitement it causes for the
moment.

"I have been talking, Mr. Campbell, with Captain Sinclair, and find you
have much to do before the short summer is over, to be ready to meet the
coming winter; more than you can well do with your limited means. I am
happy that my instructions from the Governor will permit me to be of
service to you. I propose that the ladies shall remain here, while you,
with such assistance as I can give you, proceed to your allotment and
prepare for their reception
A thousand thanks for your kind offer, Colonel -- but no, no, we will all
go together
we can be useful, and we will
remain in the tents till the house is built. Do not say a word more,
Colonel Forster, that is decided; although I again return you many
thanks for your kind offer
If such is the case, I have only to observe that I shall send a fatigue
party of twelve men, which I can well spare for a few weeks, to assist
you in your labors
Their remuneration will
not put you to a very great expense. Captain Sinclair has volunteered
to take charge of it
Many thanks, sir
and as you observe that we
have no time to lose, with your permission we will start to-morrow
morning
I certainly shall not dissuade you
although
I did hope that I should have had the pleasure of your company for a
little longer. You are aware that I have the Governor's directions to
supply you with cattle from our own stock, at a fair price. I hardly
need say that you may select as you please
And I
have been making another
collection for you among my brother-officers, which you were not
provided with, and will find very useful, I may say absolutely
necessary
What may that be, Captain Sinclair
A variety of dogs of every description. I have a pack of five; and,
although not quite so handsome as your pet dogs in England, you will
find them well acquainted with the country, and do their duty well. I
have a pointer, a bull-dog, two terriers, and a fox-hound -- all of them
of good courage, and ready to attack catamount, wolf, lynx, or even a
bear, if required
It is, indeed, a very valuable present
and you
have our sincere thanks
The cows you had better select before you go, unless you prefer that I
should do it for you
They shall be driven
over in a day or two, as I presume the ladies will wish to have milk. By
the by, Mr. Campbell, I must let you into a secret. The wild onions
which grow so plentiful in this country, and which the cattle are very
fond of, give a very unpleasant taste to the milk. You may remove it by
heating the milk as soon as it has been drawn from the cows
Many thanks, Colonel, for your information
for
I certainly have no great partiality to the flavor of onions in milk
There is the spot, Mrs. Campbell, which is to be your future
residence
you observe
where that brook runs down into the lake, that is your eastern boundary;
the land on the other side is the property of the old hunter we have
spoken of. You see his little log-hut, not much bigger than an Indian
lodge, and the patch of Indian corn now sprung out of the ground which
is inclosed by the fence. This portion appears not to be of any use to
him, as he has no cattle of any kind, unless indeed they have gone into
the bush; but I think some of our men said that he lived entirely by the
chase, and that he has an Indian wife
Well
female society is what we never
calculated upon. What is the man's name
Malachi Bone
I presume you expect Mrs.
Bone to call first
She ought to do so, if she knows the _usage_ of society
but if she does not, I think I shall waive ceremony and go and see
her. I have great curiosity to make acquaintance with an Indian squaw
You may be surprised to hear me say so, Miss Emma, but I assure you,
without having ever seen her, that you will find her perfectly well
bred. All the Indian women are -- their characters are a compound of
simplicity and reserve.-- Keep the boat's head more to the right, Selby,
we will land close to that little knoll
Well
I reckon, Mr. Campbell, that
you are in luck to have this piece of grass. It would have taken no few
blows of the ax to have cleared it away out of such a wood as that
behind us. Why, it is as good as a fortune to a new settler
I think it is, Martin
Well, sir, now to work as soon as you please, for a day is a day, and
must not be lost. I'll go to the wood with five or six of the men who
can handle an ax, and begin to cut down, leaving you and the captain
there to decide where the house is to be; the other soldiers will be
putting up the tents all ready for to-night, for you must not expect a
house over your heads till next full moon
I wish I had my box
Why do you want your box, John
For my hooks in my box
Why, do you see any fish in this small stream
Yes
It must be a hunter, Emma
he is not dressed like
the Indians we saw at Quebec
It must be
won't he speak
We will wait and see
I will speak to him, Mary
My good man, you are
Malachi Bone, are you not
That's my name
and who on earth
are you, and what are you doing here? Is it a frolic from the fort, or
what is it, that causes all this disturbance
Disturbance!-- why we don't make a great deal of noise; no, it's no
frolic; we are come to settle here, and shall be your neighbors
To settle here!-- why, what on earth do you mean, young woman? Settle
here!-- not you, surely
Yes, indeed, we are. Don't you know Martin Super, the trapper? He is
with us, and now at work in the woods getting ready for raising the
house, as you call it.-- Do you know, Mary
I'm almost afraid of that man, although I do speak so
boldly
Martin Super -- yes, I know him
Well, Mary
the old gentleman
is not over-polite. Suppose we go back and narrate our first adventure
Let us walk up to where Alfred and Martin Super are at work, and tell
them
He is angered, miss
I guessed as much; well, if he
don't like it he must squat elsewhere
How do you mean squat elsewhere
I mean, miss, that if he don't like company so near him he must shift
and build his wigwam further off
But, why should he not like company? I should have imagined that it
would be agreeable rather than otherwise
You may think so, miss; but Malachi Bone thinks otherwise; and it's
natural; a man who has lived all his life in the woods, all alone, his
eye never resting, his ear ever watching; catching at every sound, even
to the breaking of a twig or the falling of a leaf; sleeping with his
finger on his trigger and one eye half open, gets used to no company but
his own, and can't abide it. I recollect the time that I could not. Why,
miss, when a man hasn't spoken a word perhaps for months, talking is a
fatigue, and, when he hasn't heard a word spoken for months, listening
is as bad. It's all custom, miss, and Malachi, as I guessed, don't like
it, and so he's _rily_ and angered. I will go see him after the work is
over
But he has a wife, Martin, has he not
Yes; but she's an Indian wife, Master Alfred, and Indian wives don't
speak unless they're spoken to
What a recommendation
I really think I shall
look after an Indian wife, Emma
I think you had better
You'd be certain of a quiet
house,-- when _you_ were out of it,-- and when at home, you would have all
the talk to yourself, which is just what you like. Come, Mary, let us
leave him to dream of his squaw
Did you hear that strange and
loud noise last night? I was very much startled with it; but, as nobody
said a word, I held my tongue
Nobody said a word, because every body was fast asleep, I presume
I heard nothing
It was like the sound of cart-wheels at a distance, with whistling and
hissing
I think I can explain it to you, as I was up during the night, Miss
Percival
It is a noise you must expect every
night during the summer season; but one to which you will soon be
accustomed
Why, what was it
Frogs,-- nothing more; except, indeed, the hissing, which, I believe, is
made by the lizards. They will serenade you every night. I only hope you
will not be disturbed by any thing more dangerous
Is it possible that such small creatures can make such a din
Yes; when thousands join in the concert; I may say millions
Well, I thank you for the explanation, Captain Sinclair, as it has been
some relief to my mind
Surely, he hardly expects us to quit the place to please him
No
but if he were cankered in disposition, which I
will say Malachi is not, he might make it very unpleasant for you to
remain, by bringing the Indians about you
Surely, he would not do that
No, I don't think he would
because, you see, it's
just as easy for him to go further off
But why should we drive him away from his property any more than we
leave our own
He says he won't be crowded, ma'am; he can't bear to be crowded
Why, there's a river between us
So there is, ma'am, but still that's his feeling. I said to him, that
if he would go, I dared say Mr. Campbell would buy his allotment of
him, and he seems to be quite willing to part with it
It would be a great addition to your property, Mr. Campbell
In the first place, you would have the whole of the
prairie and the right of the river on both sides, apparently of no
consequence now, but as the country fills up, most valuable
Well
as I presume we shall remain here, or, at
all events, those who survive me will, till the country fills up, I
shall be most happy to make any arrangement with Bone for the purchase
of his property
I'll have some more talk with him, sir
But what does he do there, Martin
Just nothing but look at the squaw, or at Malachi cleaning his gun, or
any thing else he may see. He never speaks, that I know of, and that's
why he suits old Malachi
He brought home a whole basket of trout this afternoon
so he is not quite idle
No, miss; he's fishing at daylight, and gives one-half to you and the
other to old Bone. He'll make a crack hunter one of these days, as old
Malachi says. He can draw the bead on the old man's rifle in good style
already, I can tell you
How do you mean, Martin
I mean that he can fire pretty true, ma'am, although it's a heavy gun
for him to lift; a smaller one would do better for him
But is he not too young to be trusted with a gun, uncle
No, miss
you can't be too young here; the sooner
a boy is useful the better; and the boy with a gun is almost as good as
a man; for the gun kills equally as well if pointed true. Master
Percival must have his gun as soon as I am at leisure to teach him
I wish you were at leisure now, Martin
You forget, aunt, that you promised to learn to load and fire a rifle
yourself
No. I do not; and I intend to keep my word, as soon as there is time;
but John is so very young
Well, Mary, I suppose we must enlist too
Yes; we'll be the female rifle brigade
I really quite like the idea
I will put up with no
impertinence, recollect, Alfred; excite my displeasure, and I shall take
down my rifle
I suspect you will do more execution with your eyes, Emma
Not upon a catamount, as Martin calls it. Pray what is a catamount
A painter, miss
Oh, now I know; a catamount is a painter, a painter is a leopard or a
panther.-- As I live, uncle, here comes the old hunter, with John
trotting at his heels. I thought he would come at last. The visit is to
me, I'm sure, for when we first met he was dumb with astonishment
He well might be
he has not often met
with such objects as you and your sister in the woods
No
an English squaw must be rather a rarity
Your servant, sir
I hope you are well
What on earth makes you come here
You
are not fit for the wilderness! Winter will arrive soon; and then you go
back, I reckon
No, we shall not
for we have nowhere to go back to;
besides, the people are too crowded where we came from, so we came here
for more room
I reckon you'll crowd _me_
so I'll go further
Well, Malachi, the gentleman will pay you for your clearing
I told you so
Yes, you did; but I'd rather not have seen him or his goods
By goods, I suppose you mean us about you
No, girl, I didn't mean you. I meant gunpowder and the like
I think, Emma, you are comprehended in the last word
That is more than you are, then, for he did not mention lead
Martin Super, you know I did specify lead on the paper
You did, and you shall have it
Say what your
terms are now, and I will close with you
Well, I'll leave that to Martin and you, stranger. I clear out
to-morrow
To-morrow; and where do you go to
You'll not hear my rifle
but I'm
thinking you'll never stay here. You don't know what an Ingen's life is;
it ain't fit for the like of you. No, there's not one of you, 'cept this
boy
that's fit
for the woods. Let him come to me. I'll make a hunter of him; won't I,
Martin
That you will, if they'll spare him to you
We can not spare him altogether
but he shall
visit you, if you wish it
Well, that's a promise; and I won't go so far as I thought I would. He
has a good eye; I'll come for him
My dear Campbell
what do you intend to do about John?
You do not intend that the hunter should take him with him
No, certainly not
but I see no reason why he
should not be with him occasionally
It will be a very good thing for him to be so
If I may
advise, let the boy come and go. The old man has taken a fancy to him,
and will teach him his woodcraft. It's as well to make a friend of
Malachi Bone
Why, what good can he do us
A friend in need is a friend indeed, sir; and a friend in the
wilderness is not to be thrown away. Old Malachi is going further out,
and if danger occurs, we shall know it from him, for the sake of the
boy, and have his help too, if we need it
There is much good sense in Martin Super's remarks, Mr. Campbell
You will then have Malachi Bone as an
advanced guard, and the fort to fall back upon, if necessary to
retreat
And, perhaps, the most useful education which he can receive to prepare
him for his future life will be from the old hunter
The only one which he will take to kindly, at all events
Let him go, sir; let him go
I will give no positive answer, Martin
At all
events, I will permit him to visit the old man; there can be no
objection to that;-- but it is bedtime
How very young she is
why she can not be more than
eighteen years old
I doubt if she is so much
She has a very modest, unaffected look, has she not, Alfred
Yes; I think there is something very prepossessing in her countenance
She is too young a wife for the old hunter, at all events
That is not unusual among the Indians
a very
old chief will often have three or four young wives; they are to be
considered more in the light of his servants than any thing else
But she must think us very rude to talk and stare at her in this
manner; I suppose she can not speak English
I will speak to her in her own language, if she is a Chippeway or of
any of the tribes about here, for they all have the same dialect
She says her husband is gone to bring home venison
Tell her we are coming to live here, and will give her any thing she
wants
She says that you are beautiful flowers, but not the wild flowers of
the country, and that the cold winter will kill you
Tell her she will find us alive next summer
and, Captain
Sinclair, give her this brooch of mine, and tell her to wear it for my
sake
That she would never forget the beautiful lily who was so kind to the
little strawberry-plant
Really her language is poetical and beautiful
I have
nothing to give her -- Oh! yes, I have; here is my ivory needle-case, with
some needles in it. Tell her it will be of use to her when she sews her
moccasins. Open it and show her what is inside
She says that she will be able to work faster and better, and wishes to
look at your foot, that she may be grateful; so put your foot out, Miss
Percival
Oh, Captain Sinclair, tell her that the little boy who is gone with her
husband is our cousin
He will be a great
hunter and bring home plenty of game by and by
Well, now, tell her that we shall always be happy to see her, and that
we are going home again; and ask her name, and tell her our own
She has your names, you
perceive; her own, translated into English, is the strawberry-plant
Goes away
to-morrow
They go away to-morrow, John; where do they go to
Woods
He was here just before prayers
He must have
slipped away after the old hunter
No doubt of that, ma'am
He will go with him and find
out where he puts up his wigwam, and after that he will come back to
you; so there is no use sending after him; indeed, we don't know which
way to send
Well, my dearest wife, here we are at last, left to ourselves and to
our own resources. I am not at all doubtful of our doing well, if we
exert ourselves, as it is our duty to do. I grant that we may have
hardship to combat, difficulties to overcome, occasional disappointments
and losses to bear up against; but let us recollect how greatly we have,
through Providence, been already assisted and encouraged, how much help
we have received, and how much kindness we have experienced. Surely we
ought to feel most grateful to Heaven for blessings already vouchsafed
to us, and ought to have a firm and lively faith in _Him_, who has
hitherto so kindly watched over us. Let us not then repine or feel
dispirited, but with grateful hearts do our duty cheerfully in that
state of life to which it has pleased _Him_ to call us
I agree with you, my dear husband
nay, I can
say with sincerity, that I am not sorry we are now left to our own
exertions, and that we have an opportunity of proving that we _can_ do
without the assistance of others. Up to the present, our trial has been
nothing; indeed, I can not fancy to myself what our trials are to be.
Come they may, but from what quarter I can not form an idea: should they
come, however, I trust we shall show our gratitude for the past
blessings, and our faith derived from past deliverances, by a devout
submission to whatever the Almighty may please to try or chasten us
with
Right, my dear
we will hope for the best; we
are as much under his protection here in the wilderness, as we were at
Wexton Park; we were just as liable to all the ills which flesh is heir
to when we were living in opulence and luxury as we are now in this
log-house; but we are, I thank God, not so liable in our present
position to forget Him, who so bountifully provides for us and in His
wisdom ordereth all our ways. Most truly has the poet said --

                  "'Sweet are the uses of adversity
Well
I wonder what _my_ trials are to be! Depend upon
it, the cow will kick down the pail, or the butter won't come
Or you'll get chapped fingers in the winter-time, and chilblains on
your feet
That will be bad; but Captain Sinclair says that if we don't take care
we shall be frost-bitten and lose the tips of our noses
That would be hard upon you, Emma, for you've none to spare
Well, you have, Alfred, so yours ought to go first
We must look after one another's noses, they say, as we can not tell if
our own is in danger; and if we see a white spot upon another's nose, we
must take a bit of snow and rub it well; a little delicate attention
peculiar to this climate
I can not say that I do not know what my trials are to be
that is, trials certain; nor can Henry either. When I look at
the enormous trunks of these trees, which we have to cut down with our
axes, I feel positive that it will be a hard trial before we master
them. Don't you think so, Harry
I have made up my mind to have at least two new skins upon my hands
before the winter comes on
but felling timber was not
a part of my university education
No
Oxford don't teach that; now, my university
education
Your university education
Yes, mine; I have sailed all over the universe, and that I call a
university education; but here come Martin and John. Why, John has got a
gun on his shoulder! He must have taken it with him when he last
disappeared
I suppose that by this time he knows how to use it, Alfred
Yes, ma'am
he knows well how to use
and how to take care of it and take care of himself. I let him bring it
home on purpose to watch him. He has fired and loaded twice as we came
back, and has killed this woodchuck
Old Malachi has taught him well, and he has
not forgotten his lessons
What animal is that, Martin,-- is it good to eat
Not very good, sir; it's an animal that burrows in the ground, and is
very hurtful in a garden or to the young maize, and we always shoot them
when we meet with them
It's a pity that it's not good to eat
Oh! you may eat it, sir; I don't say it's not fit to eat; but there are
other things much better
That's quite sufficient for me, Martin
I shall not taste
him; at all events, not this time, whatever I may have to do by and by
I spoke to old Bone, sir, and he says it's all right; that he won't
keep him more than a day without first sending him to you to ask leave
That's all I require, Martin
They have been out these two days, and had only just come home when I
arrived there. The game was still in the wood
I shot a deer
You shot a deer, John
why what a useful fellow you will
be by and by
Yes, sir; old Malachi told me that the boy had shot a deer, and that he
would bring it here to-morrow himself
I am glad of that, for I wish to speak with him
but, John, how came you to take the rifle with you without leave
Answer me, John
Can't shoot without a gun
No, you can not; but the rifle is not yours
Give it to me, and I'll shoot every thing for dinner
I think you had better do so, father
the
temptation will be too strong
You are right, Henry
Now, John, I will
give you the rifle, if you will promise me to ask leave when you want to
go, and always come back at the time you have promised
I'll always tell when I go, if mamma will always let me go, and I'll
always come back when I promise, if
If what
If I've killed
He means, sir, that if he is on the track when his leave is out, that
he must follow it; but as soon as he has either lost his game, or killed
it, he will then come home. That's the feeling of a true hunter, sir,
and you must not balk it
Very true; well then, John, recollect that you promise
Martin
when are you to teach me to fire the rifle
Oh, very soon now, sir; but the soldiers are gone, and as soon as you
can hit the mark, you shall go out with Mr. Alfred or me
And when are we to learn, Mary
I will teach you, cousins
and give a lesson to my
honored mother
Well, we'll all learn
What's to be done to-morrow, Martin
Why, sir, there are boards enough to make a fishing-punt, and if you
and Mr. Henry will help me, I think we shall have one made in two or
three days. The lake is full of fish, and it's a pity not to have some
while the weather is so fine
I've plenty of lines in the store-room
Master Percival would soon learn to fish by himself
and
then he'll bring as much as Master John
Fish
Yes, fish, Master John
a good hunter is always a
good fisherman, and don't despise them, for they often give him a meal
when he would otherwise go to sleep with an empty stomach
Well, I'll catch fish with pleasure
only I must
sometimes go out hunting
Yes, my dear boy, and we must sometimes go to bed; and I think it is
high time now, as we must all be up to-morrow at daylight
No more gentlemen to attend us lady milk-maids, Emma
No
our avocation is losing all its charms, and a
pleasure now almost settles down to a duty
Alfred and Henry are with Martin about the fishing-boat
Yes
but I fancy, Mary, you were thinking more of
Captain Sinclair than of your cousins
That is very true, Emma; I was thinking of him
You don't know how I feel his absence
I can imagine it, though, my dearest Mary. Shall we soon see him
again
I do not know; but I think not for three or four weeks, for certain.
All that can be spared from the fort are gone haymaking, and if he is
one of the officers sent with the men, of course he will be absent, and
if he is left in the fort, he will be obliged to remain there; so there
is no chance of seeing him until the haymaking is over
Where is it that they go to make hay, Mary
You know they have only a sufficiency of pasture round the fort for the
cattle during the summer, so they go along by the borders of the lake
and islands, where they know there are patches of clear land, cut the
grass down, make the hay, and collect it all in the _bateaux_, and carry
it to the fort to be stacked for the winter. This prairie was their best
help, but now they have lost it
But Colonel Forster has promised papa sufficient hay for the cows for
this winter; indeed, we could not have fed them unless he had done so.
Depend upon it, Captain Sinclair will bring the hay round, and then we
shall see him again, Mary; but we must walk after our own cows now. No
one to drive them for us. If Alfred had any manners he might have come
And why not Henry, Emma
Oh! I don't know; Alfred came into my thoughts first
I believe that really was the case
Now I'm even with
you; so go along and milk your cows
It's all very well, miss
but wait till I
have learned to fire my rifle, and then you'll be more cautious of what
you say
How do you do, Mr. Bone
Did John shoot that deer
Yes; and shot it as well as an old hunter, and the creatur' can hardly
lift the gun to his shoulder. Which of you is named Mary
I am
Then I've something for you
it's a present from the Strawberry
Oh! how beautiful, and how kind of her! Tell her that I thank her, and
love her very much. Will you
Yes; I'll tell her. Where's the boy
Who, John? I think he's gone up the stream to take some trout; he'll be
back to breakfast, and that's just ready. Come, Emma, we must go in with
the milk
Why don't you name your own price, Malachi
How can I name a price? It was given to me and cost nothing. I leave it
all to you and Martin Super, as I said before
You show great confidence in me, I must say. Well Bone, I will not
cheat you; but I am afraid you will be a long while before you are paid,
if you only take it out in goods from my store-house
All the better, master; they will last till I die, and then what's left
will do for the boy here
Bone
I have no objection to the boy going with
you occasionally; but I cannot permit him to be away always. I want him
to come home the day after he has been to see you
Well, that's not reasonable, master. We go out after the game; who
knows where we may find it, how long we may look for it, and how far it
may lead us? Must we give up the chase when close upon it, because
time's up? That'll never do. I want to make the boy a hunter, and he
must learn to sleep out and do every thing else as concerns a hunter to
do. You must let him be with me longer, and, if you please, when he
comes back keep him longer; but if you wish him to be a man, the more he
stays with me the better. He shall know all the Indian craft, I promise
you, and the winter after this he shall take beavers and bring you the
skins
I think, sir
it's all in reason what the old man
says
And so do I
after all, it's only sending John to
school. Let him go, father, and have him home for the holidays
I'll always come to you, when I can
I am more satisfied at John's saying that than you might imagine
John is an honest boy, and does not say what he does not
mean
Well, my dear, if you have no objection, I'm sure I will not raise any
more
I think I shall gain more by John's affection than by compulsion, my
dear husband. He says he will always come when he can, and I believe
him; I have, therefore, no objection to let him stay with Malachi Bone,
at all events for a week or so at a time
But his education, my dear
He is certain to learn nothing now that this fever for the woods, if I
may so call it, is upon him. He will, perhaps, be more teachable a year
or two hence. You must be aware that we have no common disposition to
deal with in that child; and however my maternal feelings may oppose my
judgment, it is still strong enough to make me feel that my decision is
for his benefit. We must not here put the value upon a _finished_
education which we used to do. Let us give him every advantage which the
peculiarity of his position will allow us to do; but we are now in the
woods, to a certain degree returned to a state of nature, and the first
and most important knowledge, is to learn to gain our livelihoods
Well, my dear, I think you are correct in your views on the subject,
and therefore, John, you may go to school with Malachi Bone; come to see
us when you can, and I expect you to turn out the Nimrod of the west
The English
of all that is, Malachi, that my brother John has my father's leave to
go with you, and you're to make a man of him
He who made him must make a man of him
I can only make
him a good hunter, and that I will, if he and I are spared. Now, master,
if Martin will give me the powder and lead, I'll be off again. Is the
boy to go
Yes, if you desire it
come, John, and wish me
good-by and remember your promise
My reasons for asking you to come back with me were twofold
In the first place, I wish you to know the
road to the fort, in case it should be necessary to make any
communication during the winter; secondly, I wished to have some
conversation with you and Martin relative to information we have
received about the Indians. I can tell you privately what I was
unwilling to say before your mother and cousins, as it would put them in
a state of restlessness and anxiety, which could avail nothing and only
annoy them. The fact is, we have for some time had information that the
Indians have held several councils. It does not appear, however, that
they have as yet decided upon any thing, although it is certain that
they have gathered together in large numbers not very far from the fort.
No doubt but they have French emissaries inciting them to attack us.
From what we can learn, however, they have not agreed among themselves,
and, therefore, in all probability, nothing will be attempted until next
year, for the autumn is their season for sending out their war-parties.
At the same time, there is no security, for there is a great difference
between a junction of all the tribes against us and a common Indian
war-party. We must, therefore, be on the alert, for we have a
treacherous foe to deal with. And now, for your portion of interest in
this affair. If they attack the fort, which they may do, notwithstanding
our treaties with them, you of course would not be safe where you are;
but, unfortunately, you may not be safe even if we are not molested; for
when the Indians collect (even though the main body decide upon
nothing), there are always bands of five to ten Indians, who, having
left their homes, will not return if they can help it without some
booty; these are not regular warriors, or if warriors, not much esteemed
by the tribe; in fact, they are the worst classes of Indians, who are
mere robbers and banditti. You must, therefore, be on the look-out for
the visits of these people. It is fortunate for you that old Bone has
shifted his abode so many miles to the westward, and that you are on
such good terms with him, as it is not very likely that any party of
Indians can approach you without his meeting with them or their track
during his excursions
That's true, Captain
and I will go myself and put
him on his guard
But, will they not attack him before they attack us
Why should they
He is as much an Indian almost as
they are, and is well known to most of them. Besides, what would they
gain by attacking him? These straggling parties, which you have to fear,
are in quest of booty, and will not expect to find any thing in his
wigwam except a few furs. No; they will not venture near his rifle,
which they fear, when there is nothing to be obtained by so doing. I
mention this to you, Alfred, that you may be prepared and keep a sharp
look-out. It is very possible that nothing of the kind may occur, and
that the winter may pass away without any danger, and I mention it to
you and Martin, as I consider that the probabilities are not sufficient
to warrant your alarming the other members of the family, especially the
female portion of it. How far you may consider it advisable to
communicate what has now passed to your father and Henry, it is for you
to decide. As I said before, I do not imagine you have much to fear from
a general attack; it is too late in the year, and we know that the
councils broke up without coming to any decision. You have only to fear
the attempts of small parties of marauders, and I think you are quite
strong enough, both in numbers and in the defenses of your habitation,
to resist them successfully, if you are not suddenly surprised. That is
all that you have to fear; and now that you are warned, half the danger
is over
Well, Captain, I'll leave you now
I shall go over to
old Malachi's to-night; for it occurs to me that any attack is more
likely to be made between the fall of the leaf and the fall of the snow
than afterward; so the sooner I put Malachi on his guard the better.
Good-evening, sir
You have no idea, Alfred
how the peculiar
position of your family occupies my thoughts. It really appears almost
like madness on the part of your father to bring out your mother and
cousins to such a place, and expose them to such privations and dangers.
I can hardly sleep at night when I reflect upon what might happen
I believe
that if my father had known exactly what
his present position would have been, he would have decided upon not
leaving England; but you must remember that he came out with much
encouragement, and the idea that he would only have to surmount the
hardships of a settler in clearing his land. He fancied, at least I'm
sure _we_ all did, that we should be surrounded by other farmers, and
have no particular danger to incur. When at Quebec, he found that all
the good land near to civilization was bought up or possessed by the
French Canadians; he was advised to come further westward by those who
ought to have been aware of what he would have to encounter by so doing,
but who probably considered that the danger we now apprehend no longer
existed; and he has followed that advice which I have no doubt was
conscientiously given. I think myself, even now, that the advice was
good, although we are accompanied by females who have been brought up in
so different a sphere, and for whose welfare such anxiety is shown; for
observe now, Sinclair, suppose, without having made our acquaintance,
you had heard that some settlers, men and women, had located themselves
where we have done; should you have considered it so very rash an
undertaking, presuming that they were merely farmers and farmers'
wives
I certainly should have troubled myself very little about them, and
perhaps not thought upon the subject
But supposing the subject had been brought up at the fort, and you had
heard the parties had a stockaded house and four or five good rifles to
depend upon, with the fort to fall back upon if necessary
I admit that I should most probably have said that they were in a
position to protect themselves
Most assuredly, and therefore we are equally so; your feelings of
interest in us magnify the danger, and I therefore trust that in future
you will not allow our position to interfere with your night's rest
I wish I could bring myself to that feeling of security, Alfred. If I
were only with you, to assist in protecting them, I should sleep sound
enough
Then you would not be of much use as a watch
Never fear, Sinclair, we shall do well enough
and if we require assistance, we will apply for you and a party of
soldiers
There would be much difficulty about that, Alfred
if there were sufficient danger to make that demand upon the
commandant, the same danger would require that he should not weaken his
force in the fort; no, you would have to retreat to the fort, and leave
your farm to the mercy of the Indians
It certainly would be the wisest plan of the two
at
all events, we could send the women. But the Indians have not come yet,
and we must hope that they will not
But still I can not perceive any reason for the ladies remaining to
encounter the danger
The more we are, the stronger we are to repel danger
But women surely will only be an incumbrance
I think differently
Young and delicate as my cousins
are, they will not shrink any more than my mother when their services
are required. They now can all of them use a rifle, if required, and to
defend a house, a determined woman is almost as effective as a man.
Depend upon it, if it comes to the necessity, they will do so. You see,
therefore, Colonel, that by taking away our ladies, you will weaken our
force
Well, my dear fellow, I will press it no more. Only recollect that I
shall always be ready to send you any assistance when required
I have been thinking, Colonel Forster, that, as we have no horses at
present, if you have any rockets, they might be useful in such a case.
At the distance we are from you a rocket would be seen immediately if
fired at night, and I promise you, that it shall not be fired without
great necessity
I am glad that you have mentioned it, Alfred; you shall have a dozen to
take with you. You go back with the boats that carry the hay to-morrow
morning, do you not
Yes; I shall take that opportunity, to save wearing out my shoes, as we
have no cobbler near to us. I presume it will be the last trip made by
the boats this season
Yes
the frost will soon set in now. In another
fortnight we shall probably be visited with a heavy fall of snow, and
the ground will then be covered till spring. But I suppose we shall see
or hear from you occasionally
Yes; as soon as I can push along in my snow-shoes, I will pay you a
visit
but I have that art to learn yet
I shall not fail to give directions to the sentries about the rockets,
Alfred
and so tell your mother and cousins;
and mind to show them how to fire them off from out of the barrel of a
musket. Good-by; God bless you, my dear fellow
Good-by
On His Majesty's Service
I am confirmed to my rank, my dear mother; I
am a lieutenant in his Majesty's service -- huzza! Here's a letter
inclosed from Captain Lumley; I know his handwriting
I also have good news to
communicate to you; Mr. H. writes to me to say, that Mr. Douglas
Campbell, on finding the green-houses and hot-houses so well stocked,
considered that he was bound to pay for the plants; that they have been
valued at seven hundred pounds, and that he has paid that money into my
agent's hands. This is extremely liberal of Mr. Douglas Campbell, and I
certainly did not expect, as I found plants there on my taking
possession, that I was entitled to any remuneration for what I left.
However, I am too poor to refuse his offer from any feelings of
delicacy, and shall therefore write and thank him for his generous
behavior
I have been thinking, my dear Emily
what a very seasonable
supply of money this will be. My funds, as you have seen by the account
of my Quebec agent, were nearly exhausted, and we have many things yet
to procure. We shall require horses next year, and we must increase our
stock in every way; indeed, if we could have another man or two, it
would be very advantageous, as the sooner we clear the ground, the
sooner we shall be independent
I agree with you, Campbell; besides, we shall now have Alfred's
half-pay, poor fellow, which will help us very much; I have been
thinking more of him than any thing else this night; I watched him when
he read Captain Lumley's letter, and I well understood the cause of his
seriousness for some time afterward; I almost feel inclined to let him
return to his profession; it would be painful parting with him, but the
sacrifice on his part is very great
Still it's his duty
and, moreover, absolutely
necessary at present, that he should remain with us. When we are more
settled and more independent of his assistance we will talk over the
subject
Do you know, Mary
I'm almost sorry that I
have received a letter from Miss Paterson
Indeed, dear Emma
Yes, indeed it has unsettled me. I did nothing but dream all last
night. Every thing was recalled to my mind -- all that I most wished to
forget. I fancied myself again engaged in all the pursuits of our
much-loved home; I was playing the harp, you were accompanying me on the
piano as usual; we walked out in the shrubberies; we took an airing in
the carriage; all the servants were before me; we went to the villages
and to the almshouses; we were in the garden picking dahlias and roses;
I was just going up to dress for a very large dinner-party, and had rung
the bell for Simpson, when I woke up, and found myself in a log-hut,
with my eyes fixed upon the rafters and bark covering of the roof,
thousands of miles from Wexton Hall, and half an hour longer in bed than
a dairy-maid should be
I will confess, my dear Emma, that I passed much such a night; old
associations will rise up again when so forcibly brought to our
remembrance as they have been by Miss Paterson's letters, but I strove
all I could to banish them from my mind, and not indulge in useless
repining
Repine, I do not, Mary, at least, I hope not, but one can not well help
regretting; I can not help remembering, as Macduff says, that 'such
things were
He might well say so, Emma; for what had he lost? his wife and all his
children, ruthlessly murdered; but what have we lost in comparison?
nothing -- a few luxuries. Have we not health and spirits? Have we not our
kind uncle and aunt, who have fostered us -- our cousins so attached to
us? Had it not been for the kindness of our uncle and aunt, who have
brought us up as their own children, should we, poor orphans, have ever
been partakers of those luxuries which you now regret? Ought we not
rather to thank Heaven that circumstances have enabled us to show some
gratitude for benefits heaped upon us? How much greater are these
privations to my uncle and aunt now that they are so much more advanced
in years, and have been so much longer accustomed to competence and
ease; and shall we repine or even regret, unless it is on their account?
Surely, my dear Emma, not on our own
I feel the truth of all you say, Mary
nay, all that
you have now said passed in my own mind, and I have argued to myself in
almost the same words, but I fear that I am not quite so much of a
philosopher as you are; and, acknowledging that what you say is correct,
I still have the same feeling -- that is, I wish that I had not received
the letter from Miss Paterson
In that wish there can be no harm, for it is only wishing that you may
not be tempted to repine
Exactly, my dear Mary; I am a daughter of Eve
I will put away Miss Paterson's letter, and I
dare say in a day or two I shall have forgotten all about it. Dear
Alfred, how glad I am that he is promoted; I shall call him Lieutenant
Campbell till he is sick of it. Come, Mary, or we shall be keeping my
uncle waiting; come, Juno
We shall have it soon
winter mostly comes in with a
gale
Yes; and this appears as if it would be a strong gale
Hark! how the boughs of the trees are sawing and cracking against each
other
I reckon we may get our snow-shoes out of the store-house, John
and then we shall see how you can get over the ground with them
when you go hunting. You have not shot a moose yet
Is the moose the same as the elk, Martin
I do not think it is, sir; yet I've heard both names given to the
animal
Have you ever shot any
Yes, ma'am; many a one. They're queer animals; they don't run like the
other deer, but they trot as fast as the others run, so it comes to the
same thing. They are very shy, and difficult to get near, except in the
heavy snow, and then their weight will not allow them to get over it, as
the lighter deer can; they sink up to their shoulders, and flounder
about till they are overtaken. You see, Master Percival, the moose can't
put on snow-shoes like we can, and gives us the advantage over the
animal
Are they dangerous animals, Martin
Every large animal is more or less dangerous when it turns to bay,
miss. A moose's horns sometimes weigh fifty pounds, and it is a strong
animal to boot; but it can't do anything when the snow is deep. You'll
find it good eating, at all events, when we bring one in
I'll bring one
I dare say you will as soon as you can manage your snow-shoes
The wind is getting up higher. I guess you'll not find your way
back to Malachi's lodge, Master John, as you thought to do to-morrow
morning
It is certainly a dreadful night
and I feel
the cold very sensibly
Yes, ma'am; but as soon as the snow is down, you'll be warmer
It is time to go to bed
so put away your
work: and, Henry, give me down the Bible
Why, Alfred
how shall we be able to go after the cows
this morning? This is, indeed, winter come on with little warning
It still snows
not much, indeed, but the sky is very
black
Yes, miss; we shall have some more of it yet
Mr.
Campbell and Henry have gone to the store-house for more shovels, for we
must work hard, and clear a footpath, and then get the snow up against
the palisades
What a sudden change
I wish the sky would clear, and then
I should not care
It will to-morrow, Miss Emma, I dare say; but the snow must come down
first
Well
now things may go on as usual within doors;
and what have we to do out, Martin
You must first get on your snow-shoes, and learn to walk in them
or otherwise you'll be a prisoner as well as the
ladies. You see, John, you're not at Malachi's lodge
Go to-morrow
No; not to-morrow, for I must go with you
I can not
trust you for finding your way; and I can not go to-morrow nor the next
day either. We must kill our beef to-morrow; there's no fear but it will
keep all the winter now, and we shall save our hay
My larder is but poorly furnished
Never mind, ma'am, we'll soon have something in it, which will save our
beef. In another week you shall have it well stocked
John
recollect you must not go away without
Martin
I won't
What is the name of this fish, Martin
It is called the white-fish
and I have heard gentry
from the old country say that they have none better, if any so good
It is certainly most excellent
and we will not
forget to have a good provision for next winter, if it please God to
spare our lives
Where were you born, Martin
Why, Mr. Henry, I was born at Quebec. My father was a corporal in the
army under General Wolfe, and was wounded in the great battle fought
between him and the Frenchman Montcalm
In which both generals were killed, but the victory was to us
So I've heard, sir
My mother was an English woman,
and I was born about four years after the surrender of Quebec. My mother
died soon afterward, but my father was alive about five years ago, I
believe. I can't exactly say, as I was for three or four years in the
employ of the Fur Company, and when I returned, I found that he was
dead
And you have been a hunter all your life
Not all my life, and not exactly a hunter. I call myself a trapper, but
I still am both. I first was out with the Indians when I was about
fourteen, for you see my father wanted to make me a drummer, and I could
not stand that; so I said to him, 'Father, I won't be a drummer.'
'Well,' says he, 'Martin, you must help yourself, for all my interest
lies in the army.' 'So I will,' says I; 'father, I'm off for the woods.'
'Well,' says he, 'just as you like, Martin.' So one fine day I wished
him good-by, and did not see him again for more than two years
Well, and what took place then
Why, I brought home three or four packages of good skins, and sold them
well. Father was so pleased, that he talked of turning trapper himself,
but, as I told the old man, a man with a lame leg -- for he had been
wounded in the leg and halted -- would not make his livelihood by hunting
in the woods of Canada
Was your father still in the army
No, ma'am, he was not in the army; but he was employed in the
storekeeper's department; they gave him the berth on account of his
wound
Well, go on, Martin
I haven't much more to say, ma'am, I brought home my furs, sold them,
and father helped me to spend the money as long as he was alive, and
very welcome he was to his share. I felt rather queer when I came back
from the Fur Company and found that the old man was dead, for I had
looked forward with pleasure to the old man's welcome, and his enjoying
his frolic with me as usual
I'm afraid those frolics were not very wise, Martin
No, sir, they were very foolish, I believe; but I fear it will always
be the case with us trappers. We are like sailors, we do not know what
to do with money when we get it; so we throw it away, and the sooner the
better, for it is our enemy while we have it. I assure you, sir, that I
used to feel quite happy when all my money was gone, and I was setting
off to the woods again. It's a hard life, but a life that unfits you
for any other; a life which you become very fond of. I don't mind being
here with you by way of a change; indeed, as long as there is hunting,
it is almost as good as if I were in the woods, but else I think I shall
die a trapper
But, Martin
how much more wise would it be to put
your money by, and after a time purchase a farm and settle down a steady
man with property, perhaps married and the father of a family
Perhaps it might be; but if I do not like it so well as trapping, I
don't see why I should do so; it would be changing my life to please
others and not myself
That's very true, Martin
Perhaps Martin may change his mind before he is an old man
Dear me! what noise was that
Only a rascally wolf, ma'am
we must expect the animals
to be about us now that the snow has fallen, and the winter has set in
A wolf! are they not dangerous, Martin
That depends, miss, how hungry they may be; but they are not very fond
of attacking a human being; if we had any sheep outside, I fancy that
they would stand a bad chance
They hear him, ma'am, and if we were to let them out, would soon be at
him. No, no, John, sit still and put down your rifle; we can't afford to
hurt wolves; their skins won't fetch a half-dollar, and their flesh is
not fit for a clog, let alone a Christian. Let the vermin howl till he
is tired; he'll be off to the woods again before daylight
There is certainly something very melancholy and dreadful to me in that
howl
it frightens me
What, Emma, afraid
why yes, really she
trembles; why, my dear Emma, do you recollect how frightened you and
Mary were at the noise of the frogs when you first came here; you got
used to it very soon, and so you will to the howl of a wolf
There is some difference, Alfred
I don't know how it is
but I believe it was reading Little Red Riding Hood when I was a child,
which has given me such a horror of a wolf; I shall get over it very
soon, I have no doubt
I must say, that it does not create the most agreeable sensation in my
mind
but I was aware of what we were to
encounter when we came here, and if it is only to be annoyed with the
cry of a wild beast, we may consider that we get off very cheaply
I should feel much more at ease, if all the rifles were loaded
And I too
Well, then, if that will at all relieve your minds, it is easily done
let us all load our rifles, and put them back in
their rests
Mine's loaded
And the rest soon shall be
even the three appropriated
for your use, mother and cousins. Now don't you feel some satisfaction
in knowing you can load and fire them yourselves? the practice you had
during the fine weather has not been thrown away, has it, dear Emma
No, it has not, and I am very glad that I did learn it; I am a coward
in apprehension, Alfred, but, perhaps, if I was put to the test, I
should behave better
That I really believe
a gale of wind at sea sounds
very awful when down below jerking about in your hammock, but when on
deck, you don't care a fig about it. Now the rifles are all loaded, and
we may go to bed and sleep sound
I have come to prove that all your fears are groundless, my dear Emma,
and that you need not have any alarm about a skulking, cowardly wolf
Well, that may be
but still we are very glad of your
company
I must say that it would not only be more convenient but more agreeable
if the cows were kept nearer to the house
It would be certainly
It is a pity that there is not
a cow-shed within the palisades; but we have no means of making one at
present. Next year, when my father has purchased his horses and his
sheep, which he talks of doing, we are to build a regular yard and sheds
for all the animals close to the house, and palisaded round as the house
now is, with a passage from one palisade to the other. Then it will be
very convenient; but 'Rome was not built in a day,' as the proverb says;
and we must, therefore, wait another winter
And be devoured by the wolves in the mean time
Why, you are getting over your fright already, Emma
Yes; I feel pretty bold, now I think there is nothing to be afraid of
Perhaps, my dear children, it may be a divine mercy which has sent you
here to this wilderness; true it is that we are removed from
civilization, and shut up here by a severe winter, deprived of the
enjoyments and pleasures which are to be found in the society which we
were compelled to leave; but let us also bear in mind that we are
removed from the many temptations which might have there assailed us
But still, papa, you would be very glad if circumstances would permit
us to return to England; would you not
Yes, my child, I should, and even if I had remained here so long as to
have become attached to the place and to the isolation which at first is
felt so irksome, I would still return to England and to society, if I
had the means. As Christians, we are not to fly from the world and its
temptations, but to buckle on our armor, and putting our trust in Him
who will protect us, fight the good fight; that is, doing our duty in
that state of life to which it shall please God to call us
But if ever we were to return to England, there would be no chance of
our living as we did before we left it, would there, papa
I see none, my dear boy; but we never know what is in store for us.
Should any of us ever return, I presume it would be to live in a more
humble way; and for my part, I should prefer that it were so, for
although I trust I did not greatly misuse that wealth which I so long
supposed to be mine, I should not be sorry to have much less, and
therefore less responsibility
Indeed, my dear Campbell, imperfect as we all are, I do not believe
that many could have made a better use of it than you did
I thought so at the time, my dear
but since it
has been lost to me, I have often thought that I might have done more
good with it. But the fact is, my dear children, there is nothing so
dangerous to our eternal welfare as great wealth; it tends to harden the
heart by affording the means of constant self-indulgence:-- under such
circumstances, man is apt to become selfish, easily satisfied with his
own works, and too proud to see his errors. Did you observe in the
Litany, which I read at this morning's service, how very appropriately
is inserted the prayer, for deliverance under the perils of wealth?--

"'In all time of our tribulation, in all time of our _wealth_, in the
hour of death, and in the day of judgment, good Lord deliver us.'

"Examine this, my dear children: in all time of our tribulation,-- that
is in poverty and distress, and perhaps famishing from want (and in few
positions are people so incited to crime), _then_ in all time of our
wealth, evidently and distinctly placing wealth as more dangerous to the
soul's welfare than the extremest poverty and its accompanying
temptations; and observe, only exceeded by the most critical of all
dangerous positions, when all has been done and nothing can be
undone,-- the hour of death, followed by the day of judgment
What, then, my dear
uncle, do you consider as the most enviable position in life
I consider a moderate independence as the most enviable; not occupied
in trade, as the spirit of barter is too apt to make us bend to that
which is actually fraud. I should say, a country gentleman living on his
own property and among his own tenants, employing the poor around him,
holds a position in which he has the least temptation to do wrong, and
the most opportunities of doing good
I agree with you, my dear Campbell
and yet how few
are satisfied even with that lot
Because the craving after wealth is so strong, that every one would
have more than he hath, and few men will be content. The desire of
aggrandizement overcomes and masters us; and yet what can be more absurd
than to witness the care and anxiety of those to gain riches, who have
already more perhaps than is necessary for their wants,-- thus 'heaping
up riches, not knowing who may gather them,' and endangering the soul to
obtain that which they must leave behind them when they die. Others
amass wealth, not actuated by the avarice of hoarding it up, but by the
appetite for expending it; who collect unjustly that they may lavish
profusely; these are equally foolish, and how important is that lesson
given in the Scriptures
And he spake a parable unto them. The ground of a certain rich
    man brought forth plentifully.

    "And he said, What shall I do? because I have no room where to
    bestow my fruits.

    "And he said: This will I do; I will pull down my barns and build
    greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods.

    "And I will say to my soul: Soul, thou hast much goods laid up
    for many years, take thine ease; eat, drink, and be merry.

    "But God said unto him: Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be
    required of thee
I have often reflected
since I have been here upon what might have been our position had we
decided upon remaining in England. We might at this moment have been in
the greatest distress, even wanting a meal; and I have, therefore, often
thanked God that He left us the means of coming here and providing for
ourselves as we have done, and as I have no doubt shall, with His
blessing, continue to do. How much better off are we at this moment than
many thousands of our countrymen who remain in England! How many are
starving! How many are driven into crime from want! while we have a good
roof over our heads, sufficient clothing and more than sufficient food.
We have, therefore, great reason to thank God for the mercies He has
vouchsafed to us; He has heard our prayer, 'Give us this day our daily
bread
Yes
Give us this day our daily
bread,' is all that we are taught to ask for; and it comprehends all;
and yet how heartlessly is this pronounced by many of those who do
repeat their daily prayers. So is the blessing asked at meals, which is
by too many considered as a mere matter of form. They forget, that He
who gives can also take away; and in their presumption, suppose their
own ability and exertion to have been the sole means of procuring
themselves a daily supply of food; thanking themselves rather than the
Giver of all good. How many thousands are there who have been supplied
with more than they require from their cradle down to their grave,
without any grateful feeling toward Heaven; considering the butcher and
baker as their providers, and the debt canceled as soon as the bills are
paid. How different must be the feeling of the poor cottager, who is
uncertain whether his labor may procure him and his family a meal for
the morrow, who often suffers privation and hunger, and, what is more
painful, witnesses the sufferings of those he loves. How earnest must be
his prayer when he cries, 'Give us this day our daily bread
By the by, Mr. Campbell, where have you built your pig-sties
Inside the palisade, next to the fowl-house
That is well
for otherwise you may be
troubled by the wolves, who are very partial to pork or mutton
We _have_ been troubled with them
at least with their
howlings at night, which make me tremble as I lie awake in bed
Never mind their howling, Miss Emma; we have plenty of them round the
fort, I can assure you; unless attacked, they will not attack you, at
least, I never knew an instance, although I must confess that I have
heard of them
You will, of course, sleep here to-night
Yes: we will, if you have a bear or buffalo skin to spare
We will manage it, I have no doubt
And if you could manage, Captain Sinclair
as you say that they are not dangerous animals, to bring us a few skins
to-night, it would make the matter easy
Emma, how can you talk such nonsense
Why should
you ask a guest to undertake such a service? Why have you not proposed
it to Alfred or Henry, or even Martin
We will both try, if you please
I must put my veto on any such attempts, Alfred
We have sufficient danger to meet without running into it voluntarily,
and we have no occasion for wolves' skins just now. I shall, however,
venture to ask your assistance to-morrow morning. We wish to haul up the
fishing-punt before the ice sets in on the lake, and we are not
sufficiently strong-handed
I should not be surprised if Malachi Bone were to come here to-morrow
morning
He has been away a long while, and, I am
sure, is as anxious to have John with him as John is impatient to go
Well, I hope he will; I shall be glad to have something to tell the
Colonel, as I made the request upon that ground. I believe, however,
that he was very willing that I should find an excuse for coming here,
as he is more anxious about your family than I could have supposed. How
well your cousin Mary is looking
Yes; and so is Emma, I think. She has grown half a head since she left
England. By the by, you have to congratulate me on my obtaining my rank
as lieutenant
I do indeed, my dear fellow
They will be
pleased to hear it at the fort. When will you come over
As soon as I can manage to trot a little faster on these snow-shoes.
If, however, the old hunter does not come to-morrow, I will go to the
fort as soon as he brings us any news
He's dead
Was that you who fired just now, John
Yes
What did you fire at
A wolf
A wolf! where
At the cow-lodge
The cow-lodge
Yes; killed Sancho
Killed Sancho! why, Sancho was with your cousins
Yes
Then, where did you leave them
With the wolf
Merciful Heaven
My poor girls
Wolf's dead, father
Dead! Why didn't you say so, you naughty boy
I wasn't asked
They are much more composed
and Emma has
begun to laugh again; but her laugh is rather hysterical and forced;
they will come out at dinner-time. It appears they are indebted to John
for their preservation, for they say the wolf was about to spring upon
them when he came to their assistance. We ought to be very grateful to
Heaven for their preservation. I had no idea, after what Martin said
about the wolves, that they were so dangerous
Why, ma'am, it is I that am most to blame, and that's the fact
When we killed the bullock I threw the offal on the
heap of snow close to the cow-lodge, meaning that the wolves and other
animals might eat it at night, but it seems this animal was hungry, and
had not left his meal when the dog attacked him, and that made the beast
so _rily_ and savage
Yes; it was the fault of Martin and me
Thank Heaven
it's no worse
So far from it being a subject of regret, I consider it one of
thankfulness
This might have happened when
there was no one to assist, and our dear girls might have been torn to
pieces. Now that we know the danger, we may guard against it for the
future
Yes, sir
in future some of us will drive the cows
home, to be milked every morning and evening; inside the palisade there
will be no danger. Master John, you have done well. You see, ma'am
what I said has come true. A rifle in the hands of a
child is as deadly a weapon as in the hands of a strong man
Yes; if courage and presence of mind attend its use
John, I am very much pleased with your conduct
Mother called me naughty
Yes, John, I called you naughty, for not telling us the wolf was dead,
and leaving us to suppose your cousins were in danger; not for killing
the wolf. Now I kiss you, and thank you for your bravery and good
conduct
I shall tell all the officers at the fort what a gallant little fellow
you are, John
there are very few of them who
have shot a wolf, and what is more, John, I have a beautiful dog, which
one of the officers gave me the other day in exchange for a pony, and I
will bring it over, and make it a present to you for your own dog. He
will hunt any thing, and he is very powerful -- quite able to master a
wolf, if you meet with one. He is half mastiff and half Scotch
deerhound, and he stands as high as this
I'll go to the fort with you
and bring him back
So you shall, John, and I'll go with you
if master
pleases
Well
I think he may; what with Martin, his own
rifle, and the dog, John will, I trust be safe enough
Certainly, I have no objection
and many thanks
to you, Captain Sinclair
What's the dog's name
Oscar
If you let him walk out with your
cousins, they need not fear a wolf. He will never be mastered by one, as
poor Sancho was
I'll lend him sometimes
Always; when you don't want him yourself, John
Yes, always
Where are you going, dear
Going to skin the wolf
Well, he'll be a regular keen hunter
I dare say old
Bone has taught him to flay an animal. However, I'll go and help him,
for it's a real good skin
Martin ought to have known better than to leave the offal where he
did
We must not be too hard, Captain Sinclair
Martin has a
contempt for wolves, and that wolf would not have stood his ground had
it been a man instead of two young women who were in face of him. Wolves
are very cunning, and I know will attack a woman or child when they will
fly from a man. Besides, it is very unusual for a wolf to remain till
daylight, even when there is offal to tempt him. It was the offal, the
animal's extreme hunger, and the attack of the dog -- a combination of
circumstances -- which produced the event. I do not see that Martin can be
blamed, as one can not foresee every thing
Perhaps not
and 'all's well that ends
well
Are there any other animals to fear
The bear is now safe for the winter in the hollow of some tree or under
some root, where he has made a den. It will not come out till the
spring. The catamount or panther is a much more dangerous animal than
the wolf; but it is scarce. I do think, however, that the young ladies
should not venture out, unless with some rifles in company, for fear of
another mischance. We have plenty of lynxes here; but I doubt if they
would attack even a child, although they fight when assailed, and bite
and claw severely
Why, Emma, you appear to have recovered sooner than your sister
Yes
but I was much more frightened than she was, and
she supported me, or I should have fallen at the wolf's feet. I yielded
to my fears; Mary held up against hers; so, as her exertions were much
greater than mine, she has not recovered from them so soon. The fact is,
Mary is brave when there is danger, and I am only brave when there is
none
I was quite as much frightened as you, my dear Emma
but we must now help our aunt, and get dinner ready on the
table
I can not say that I have a wolfish appetite this morning
but Alfred will eat for me and himself too
Here come Martin and John at last
She ain't used to chairs and stools, miss; let her be where she is
she'll be more comfortable, and that's what you want
her to be, I'm sure. I brought her with me, because I could not carry
all the venison myself, and also to show her the way in and out of the
house, and how it is fastened, in case of sending a message by night
Of sending a message by night
why, what possible occasion could there be for that
The fact is, my dear mother, that 'forewarned is
being forearmed,' as the saying is; and I told Martin to request Malachi
Bone, if he should hear of any Indians being about or near us, to let us
know immediately
Yes, ma'am, that is the whole story
It's the best
plan, when you're in the woods, always to have your rifle loaded
We have always spies on the look-out at the fort, that we may
know where the Indians are and what they are about. Last month, we know
that they held a council, but that it broke up without their coming to
any determination, and that no hostile feeling was expressed so far as
we could ascertain. But we never trust the Indians, and they, knowing
that we watch them, have been very careful not to commit any outrages;
they have not done so for a long while, nor do I think they will venture
again. At the same time, we like to know where they are, and I requested
Alfred to speak to Malachi Bone, to send us immediately word if he heard
or saw any thing of them: not, however, that I intended that the ladies
should be wakened up in the middle of the night
that was not at all necessary
Well, well, there's no harm done, it's just as well that the Strawberry
should know her way about the location, if it's only to know where the
dogs are, in case she comes of a message
No, no
I'm glad that she is come, and hope she
will come very often. Now, Malachi, sit down and eat something
Well, but about the Indians, Captain Sinclair
that you have not told us all I am certain, and the conviction that
such is the case, will make me and the girls very uneasy; so pray do
treat us as we ought to be treated; we share the danger, and we ought to
know what the danger is
I do not think that there is any danger, Mrs. Campbell
unless Malachi has further information to give us. I
do, however, perfectly agree with you, that you ought to know all that
we know, and am quite ready to enter upon the subject, trifling as it
is
So I presume it must be, my dear
for I have
as yet known nothing about the matter. So pray, Captain Sinclair,
instruct us all
The Injuns did meet as you say, and they could not agree, so they broke
up, and are now all out upon their hunting and trapping for furs. But
there's one thing I don't exactly feel comfortable about, which is that
the 'Angry Snake,' as he is called, who was at the 'talk,' and was
mighty venomous against the English, has squatted for the winter
somewhere hereabout
The Angry Snake
Is that the chief who served
with the French, and wears a medal
The very same, sir. He's not a chief though; he was a very good warrior
in his day, and the French were very partial to him, as he served them
well; but he is no chief, although he was considered as a sort of one
from the consequence he obtained with the French. He is an old man now,
and a very bitter one. Many's the Englishman that he has tied to the
stake, and tortured during the war; He hates us, and is always stirring
up the Injuns to make war with us; but his day is gone by, and they do
not heed him at the council now
Then, why are you uncomfortable about him
Because he has taken up his quarters for the winter hunting not far
from us, with six or seven of the young warriors, who look up to him,
and he is mischievous. If the Injun nation won't make war, he will do
something on his own account, if he possibly can. He's not badly named,
I can tell you
Will he attack you
Me! no, no; he knows better. He knows my rifle well; he has the mark on
his body; not but that he would if he dared, but I am Injun myself, and
know Injun craft. Then you see, these people have strange ideas. During
the whole war they never could even hit me with their rifles, and they
think I am not to be hurt -- that's their superstition -- and my rifle, they
think, never misses (they're almost right there, for it does not once in
a hundred times), so what with this and that, they fear me as a
supernatural, as we call it. But that's not the case with you all here;
and if the Snake could creep within these palisades, he might be
mischievous
But the tribes know very well that any attack of this kind would be
considered as a declaration of hostilities
and
that we should retaliate
Yes; but you see the Snake don't belong to these tribes about us; his
nation is much further off,-- too far to go for redress; and the tribes
here, although they allow him to join the 'talk' as an old warrior who
had served against the English and from respect to his age, do not
acknowledge him or his doings. They would disavow them immediately and
with truth, but they can not prevent his doing mischief
What, then, is the redress in case of his doing any mischief
Why, upon him and his band, whenever you can find them. You may
destroy them all, and the Injuns here won't say a word, or make any
complaint. That's all that can be done; and that's what I will do; I
mean to tell him so, when I meet him. He fears me, and so do his men;
they think me medicine
Medicine! What is that
It means that he has a charmed life
The
Indians are very superstitious
Yes, they be; well, perhaps, I'll prove medicine; and I'll give them a
pill or two out of my rifle
Howsomever, I'll soon learn more about them, and will let you know when
I do. Just keep your palisade gates fast at night and the dogs inside of
them, and at any time I'll give you warning. If I am on their trail the
Strawberry shall come, and that's why I brought her here. If you hear
three knocks outside the palisade at any hour of the night, why, it will
be her, so let her in
Well
I'm very glad that you have told me all
this; now I know what we have to expect, I shall be more courageous and
much more on my guard
I think we have done wisely in letting you know all we knew ourselves
I must soon take my leave, as I must be at the
fort before sunset. Martin and John are to come with me, and bring back
the dog
Ain't the boy going with me
Yes; to-morrow morning he may go, but after his return from the fort it
will be too late
Well, then, I may as well stay here
Where is he
He is gone to skin a wolf, which he shot this morning
He will soon be here
I reckon he'll bring home more skins than that this winter
Well, this has been an exciting day
We have much to thank God for, and great
reason to pray for His continued protection and assistance. God bless
you all, my children; good-night
It is, indeed, a noble animal
It's a fine creature
a wolf would stand no chance
against him, and even a bear would have more on its hands than it could
well manage I expect; but, come here, boy
You'd better leave the dog, John
the crittur will be
of use here, but of no good to us
I say it will be of use here, for the girls might meet with another
wolf, or the house might be attacked; but good hunters don't want dogs.
Is it to watch for us, and give us notice of danger? Why that's our
duty, and we must trust to ourselves, and not to an animal. Is it to
hunt for us? Why no dog can take a deer so well as we can with our
rifles; a dog may discover us when we wish to be hidden; a dog's track
will mark us out when we would wish our track to be doubted. The animal
will be of no utility ever to us, John, and may do us harm, 'specially
now the snow's on the ground. In the summer-time, you can take him and
teach him how to behave as a hunter's dog should behave; but we had
better leave him now, and start at once
Good-by
I shall not
take the dog
Won't take the dog! well, that's very kind of you, John
for we were longing to have him to protect us
Good-by
I wonder when John will come back again
Why he only left two days ago, so we must not expect him for some
time
I know that; I wonder if Oscar would kill a wolf; I should like to take
him out and try
I thought you had had enough of wolves already, Emma
Yes, well; that old Malachi will never bring us any more news about the
Indians
Why, I do not think that any news about them is likely to be pleasant
news, Emma, and therefore, why should you wish it
Why, my dear Mary, because I want _some_ news; I want something to
excite me, I feel so dull. It's nothing but stitch, stitch, all day,
and I am tired of always doing the same thing. What a horrid thing a
Canadian winter Is, and not one-half over yet
It is very dull and monotonous, my dear Emma, I admit, and if we had
more variety of employment, we should find it more agreeable, but we
ought to feel grateful that we have a good house over our heads, and
more security than we anticipated
Almost too much security, Mary; I begin to feel that I could welcome an
Indian even in his war-paint, just by way of a little change
I think you would soon repent of your wish, if it were gratified
Very likely, but I can not help wishing it now. When will they come
home? What o'clock is it? I wonder what they'll bring: the old story I
suppose, a buck; I'm sick of venison
Indeed, Emma, you are wrong to feel such discontent and weariness
Perhaps I am, but I have not walked a hundred yards for nearly one
hundred days, and that will give one the blues, as they call them, and I
do nothing but yawn, yawn, yawn, for want of air and exercise. Uncle
won't let us move out on account of that horrid wolf. I wonder how
Captain Sinclair is getting on at the fort, and whether he is as dull as
we are
I have killed him, aunt
but I fear he has killed poor
little Trim; do let us go out and see
No, no, my dear Emma, that must not be; your cousins will be home soon,
and then we shall know how the case stands; but the risk is too great
Here they come
as fast as they can run
No, no, my little cousin
we heard the report of a
rifle, and we threw down our game, that we might sooner come to your
assistance if you required it. What was the matter
Only that I have killed a wolf, and am not allowed to bring in my
trophy
Come, Alfred, I may go with you and Martin
And I'll make a footstool of it
that shall be my revenge
for the fright I had from the other wolf. Come, Oscar, good dog; you and
I will go wolf-hunting. Dear me, who would have thought that I should
have ever killed a wolf -- poor little Trim
Well
I never knew but one woman who faced a wolf except
Miss Emma
And who was that, Martin
It was a wife of one of our farmers, ma'am; she was at the outhouse
doing something, when she perceived a wolf enter the cottage-door, where
there was nobody except the baby in the cradle. She ran back and found
the wolf just lifting the infant out of the cradle by its clothes. The
animal looked at her with his eyes flashing; but having its mouth full,
it did not choose to drop the baby, and spring at her; all it wanted was
to get clear off with its prey. The woman had presence of mind enough to
take down her husband's rifle and point it to the wolf, but she was so
fearful of hurting the child, that she did not put the muzzle to its
head, but to its shoulder. She fired just as the wolf was making off,
and the animal fell, and could not get on its feet again, and it then
dropped the child out of its mouth to attack the mother. The woman
caught the child up, but the wolf gave her a severe bite on the arm, and
broke the bone near the wrist. A wolf has a wonderful strong jaw, ma'am.
However, the baby was saved, and neighbors came and dispatched the
animal
What a fearful position for a mother to be in
Where did that happen
On the White Mountains, ma'am
Malachi Bone told me
the story; he was born there
Then he is an American
Well, ma'am, he is an American because he was born in this country, but
it was English when he was born, so he calls himself an Englishman
I understand
he was born before the colonies
obtained their independence
Yes, ma'am, long before; there's no saying how old he is. When I was
quite a child, I recollect he was then reckoned an old man; indeed, the
name the Indians gave to him proves it. He then was called the 'Gray
Badger
But is he so very old, do you really think, Martin
I think he has seen more than sixty snows, ma'am; but not many more;
the fact is, his hair was gray before he was twenty years old; he told
me so himself, and that's one reason why the Indians are so fearful of
him. They have it from their fathers that the Gray Badger was a great
hunter, as Malachi was more than forty years ago; so they imagine as his
hair was gray then, he must have been a very old man at that time back,
and so to them he appears to live forever, and they consider him as
charmed, and to use their phrase, 'great _medicine_.' I've heard some
Indians declare that Malachi had seen one hundred and fifty winters, and
they really believe it. I never contradicted them, as you may imagine
Does he live comfortably
Yes, ma'am, he does; his squaw knows what he wants, and does what she
is bid. She is very fond of the old man, and looks upon him, as he
really is to her, as a father. His lodge is always full of meat, and he
has plenty of skins. He don't drink spirits, and if he has tobacco for
smoking and powder and ball, what else can he want
Happy are they whose wants are so few
Let us take Oscar with us
he is very swift, and may run
them down; we never can get up with them in our snow-shoes
I wonder whether they will get a turkey
I think it will be difficult
but they will try
all they can
I hope they will; for Christmas-day without a turkey will be very
un-English
We are not in England, my dear Emma
and wild
turkeys are not to be ordered from the poulterer's
I know that we are not in England, my dear uncle, and I feel it too.
How was the day before every Christmas-day spent at Wexton Hall! What
piles of warm blankets, what a quantity of duffil cloaks, flannels, and
worsted stockings were we all so busy and so happy in preparing and
sorting to give away on the following morning, that all within miles of
us should be warmly clothed on that day. And, then, the housekeeper's
room with all the joints of meat, and flour and plums and suet, in
proportion to the number of each family, all laid out and ticketed ready
for distribution. And then the party invited to the servants' hall, and
the great dinner, and the new clothing for the school-girls, and the
church so gay, with their new dresses in the aisles, and the holly and
the mistletoe. I know we are not in England, my dear uncle, and that you
have lost one of your greatest pleasures -- that of doing good, and making
all happy around you
Well, my dear Emma, if I have lost the pleasure of doing good, it is
the will of Heaven that it should be so, and we ought to be thankful
that, if not dispensing charity, at all events, we are not the objects
of charity to others; that we are independent, and earning an honest
livelihood. People may be very happy, and feel the most devout gratitude
on the anniversary of so great a mercy, without having a turkey for
dinner
I was not in earnest about the turkey, my dear uncle. It was the
association of ideas connected by long habit, which made me think of our
Christmas times at Wexton Hall; but, indeed, my dear uncle, if there was
regret, it was not for myself so much as for you
Perhaps I spoke rather too severely, my dearest Emma
but I did not like to hear such a solemn day spoken of as if
it were commemorated merely by the eating of certain food
It was foolish of me
and it was said thoughtlessly
Well, I hope there will be a turkey, since you wish for one
What is it, Alfred
Wait till I recover my breath
or ask Henry, for I'm quite knocked up
Yes
left the poor creature without food, to perish
in the snow. One day more, and it would have been all over with her. It
is wonderful how she can have lived through the two last nights as she
has. But Martin says the Indians always do leave a woman to perish in
this way or recover as she can, if she happens to meet with an
accident
At all events, let us bring her in at once
I will
first see if my surgical assistance can be of use, and after that we
will do what we can for her. How far from this did you find her
About eight miles
and Alfred has carried her almost
the whole way; Martin and I have relieved each other, except once, when
I took Alfred's place
And so you perceive, Emma, instead of a wild turkey I have brought an
Indian squaw
I love you better for your kindness, Alfred
than if
you had brought me a wagon-load of turkeys
It is lucky for her that she did not fall into that sleep before we
found her
she would never have awoke again
Most certainly not
Have you any idea what
tribe she is of, Martin
Yes, sir; she is one of the Chippeways; there are many divisions of
them, but I will find out when she awakes again to which she belongs;
she was too much exhausted when we found her, to say much
It appears very inhuman leaving her to perish in that way
Well, ma'am, so it does; but necessity has no law. The Indians could
not, if they would, have carried her, perhaps one hundred miles. It
would have probably been the occasion of more deaths, for the cold is
too great now for sleeping out at nights for any time, although they do
contrive with the help of a large fire to stay out sometimes
Self-preservation is the first law of nature, certainly
but, if I recollect right the savage does not value the life
of a woman very highly
That's a fact, sir
not much more, I reckon, than you
would a beast of burden
It is always the case among savage nations
the first mark of civilization is the treatment of the other sex, and
in proportion as civilization increases, so are the women protected and
well used. But your supper is ready, my children, and I think after your
fatigue and fasting you must require it
I am almost too tired to eat
I shall infinitely
more enjoy a good sleep under my bear skin. At the same time I'll try
what I can do
I said I was too tired to eat, Emma, and so I felt at the time; but as
I became more refreshed my appetite returned
and notwithstanding your jeering me, I mean to eat some more
How long has John been away
Now nearly a fortnight
he promised to come
here Christmas-day. I suppose we shall see him to-morrow morning
Yes, ma'am; and old Bone will come with him, I dare say. He said as
much to me when he was going away the last time. He observed that the
boy could not bring the venison, and perhaps _he_ would if he had any,
for he knows that people like plenty of meat on Christmas day
I wonder whether old Malachi is any way religious
Do
you think he is, Martin
Yes, ma'am; I think he feels it, but does not show it. I know from
myself what are, probably, his feelings on the subject. When I have been
away for weeks and sometimes for months, without seeing or speaking to
any one, all alone in the woods, I feel more religious than I do when at
Quebec on my return, although I do go to church. Now old Malachi has, I
think, a solemn reverence for the Divine Being, and strict notions of
duty, so far as he understands it,-- but as he never goes to any town or
mixes with any company, so the rites of religion, as I may call them,
and the observances of the holy feast, are lost to him, except as a sort
of dream of former days, before he took to his hunter's life. Indeed, he
seldom knows what day or even what month it is. He knows the seasons as
they come and go, and that's all. One day is the same as another, and he
can not tell which is Sunday, for he is not able to keep a reckoning.
Now, ma'am, when you desired Master John to be at home on the Friday
fortnight because it was Christmas-day, I perceived old Malachi in deep
thought: he was recalling to mind what Christmas-day was; if you had not
mentioned it, the day would have passed away like any other; but you
reminded him, and then it was that he said he would come if he could.
I'm sure that now he knows it is Christmas-day, he intends to keep it as
such
There is much truth in what Martin says
we
require the seventh day in the week and other stated seasons of devotion
to be regularly set apart, in order to keep us in mind of our duties and
preserve the life of religion. In the woods, remote from communion with
other Christians, these things are easily forgotten, and when once we
have lost our calculation, it is not to be recovered. But come, Alfred
and Henry and Martin must be very tired, and we had better all go to
bed. I will sit up a little while to give some drink to my patient, if
she wishes it. Good-night, my children
a dish of herbs where love is,
than the stalled ox with hatred therewith
Here we are all together on Christmas-day
And, John, you have brought us three wild turkeys; you are a good boy,
John
If we only had Captain Sinclair here now
Yes, Martin, we do want
him, for I always feel as if he belonged to the family
Well, it's not his fault that he's not here
it's now
more than six weeks since he has left, and if the Colonel would allow
him, I'm sure that Captain Sinclair
Would be here on this day
Oh, how glad I am to see you
we only wanted you to make
our Christmas party complete; and I'm very glad to see you too, Mr.
Gwynne
We had some difficulty in persuading the Colonel to let us come
but as we have heard nothing further
about the Indians, he consented
You have nothing more to fear from the Indians this winter, Captain,
and you may tell the Colonel so from me
I happened to
be on their hunting ground yesterday, and they have broken up and gone
westward, that is, Angry Snake and his party have; I followed their
track over the snow for a few miles just to make sure; they have taken
every thing with them, but somehow or other, I could not find out that
the squaw was with them,-- and they had one in their party. They carried
their own packs of fur, that I'll swear to, and they had been thrown
down several times; which would not have been the case, if they had not
been carried by men; for you see, the Injun is very impatient under a
load, which a squaw will carry the whole day without complaining. Now
that party is gone, there is no other about here within fifty miles,
I'll be bound for
I'm very glad to hear you say so
Then, perhaps, this poor woman whom you succored, Alfred, is the squaw
belonging to the party
It's just as you thought, sir; she belongs to the Angry Snake, and she
says that he has gone with his party to the westward, as the beaver were
very scarce down here; I could have told him that. She confirms my
statement, that all the Indians are gone, but are to meet at the same
place in the spring, to hold a council
Is she of the same tribe as the Strawberry
That's as may be
I hardly know which tribe the
Strawberry belongs to
But they speak the same language
Yes; but the Strawberry learned the tongue from me
From you
how was that
Why, ma'am, it's about thirteen or fourteen years back, that I happened
to come in upon a skirmish which took place on one of the small lakes
between one of the tribes here and a war party of Hurons who were out.
They were surprised by the Hurons, and every soul, as far as I could
learn, was either scalped or carried away prisoner. The Hurons had gone
about an hour or two, when I came up to the place where they fought, and
I sat down looking at the dead bodies, and thinking to myself what
creatures men were to deface God's image in that way, when I saw under a
bush two little sharp eyes looking at me; at first, I thought it was
some beast, a lynx, mayhap, as they now call them, and I pointed my
rifle toward it; but before I pulled the trigger, I thought that perhaps
I might be mistaken, so I walked up to the bush, and there I discovered
that it was an Indian child, which had escaped the massacre by hiding
itself in the bush. I pulled it out; it was a girl about two years old,
who could speak but a few words. I took her home to my lodge, and have
had her with me ever since, so I don't exactly know what tribe she
belongs to, as they all speak the same tongue. I called her the
'Strawberry,' because I found her under a bush close to the ground, and
among strawberry plants which were growing there
And then you married her
Married her! no, boy, I never married her; what has an old man of near
seventy to do with marrying? They call her my squaw, because they
suppose she is my wife, and she does the duty of a wife to me; but if
they were to call her my daughter, they would be nearer the mark, for I
have been a father to her
Well, Malachi, to tell you the truth, I did think that she was too
young to be your wife
Well, miss, you were not far wrong
I do wish I
could find out her tribe, but I never have been able, and indeed, from
what I can learn, the party who were surprised came a long way from
this, although speaking the same language; and I don't think there is
any chance now, for even if I were to try to discover it, there have
been so many surprises and so much slaughter within these last twenty
years, that it's scarcely possible the search would be attended with
success
But why do you wish to find out her tribe
Because I'm an old man, miss, and must soon expect to be gathered to my
fathers, and then this poor little girl will be quite alone, unless I
can marry her to some one before I die: and if I do marry her, why then
she will leave _me_ alone; but that can't be helped, I'm an old man, and
what does it matter
It matters a great deal, Malachi
I wish you would
live with us; you would then be taken care of if you required it, and
not die alone in the wilderness
And the Strawberry shall never want friends or a home, while we can
offer her one, Malachi
let what will happen to
you, she will be welcome to live here and die here, if she will remain
Well, I really did think that the old man had married the girl, and I
thought it was a pity
for she is very young and very handsome for a squaw
I think
she would be considered handsome
everywhere, Martin, squaw or not; her features are very pretty, and then
she has a melancholy smile, which is perfectly beautiful; but now,
Martin, pluck these turkeys, or we shall not have them ready in time
All this puts me in mind of days long past, days which appear to me as
a dream, when I was a lad and had a father and a mother, and brothers
and sisters around me; but many summers and many winters have passed
over my head since then
You were born in Maine, Malachi, were you not
Yes, ma'am, half way up the White Mountains. He was a stern old man, my
father; but he was a righteous man. I remember how holy Sunday was kept
in our family; how my mother cleaned us all, and put on our best
clothes, and how we went to the chapel or church, I forget which they
called it; but no matter, we went to pray
Was your father of the Established Church, Malachi
I can't tell, ma'am; indeed, I hardly know what it means; but he was a
good Christian and a good man, that I do know
You are right, Malachi; when the population is crowded, you find people
divided into sects, and, what is still worse, despising, if not hating
each other, because the outward forms of worship are a little different.
Here in our isolated position, we feel how trifling are many of the
distinctions which divide religious communities, and that we could
gladly give the right hand of fellowship to any denomination of
Christians who hold the main truths of the Gospel. Are not all such
agreed in things essential, animated with the same hopes, acknowledging
the same rule of faith, and all comprehended in the same divine mercy
which was shown us on this day? What do all sincere Christians believe
but that God is holy, great, good, and merciful, that his Son died for
us all, and that through his merits and intercession if we conform to
his precepts -- whether members of the Church of England, or any other
communion -- we shall be saved and obtain the blessedness of heaven? We
may prefer, and reasonably prefer, our own mode of worship, believing it
to be most edifying; but we have no right to quarrel with those who
conscientiously differ from us about outward forms and ceremonies which
do not involve the spirit of Christianity
Malachi, tell us more about your
father and your family
I have little to tell, miss; only that I now think that those were
pleasant days which then I thought irksome. My father had a large farm
and would have had us all remain with him. In the winter we felled
timber, and I took quite a passion for a hunter's life; but my father
would not allow me to go from home, so I staid till he died, and then I
went away on my rambles. I left when I was not twenty years old, and I
have never seen my family since. I have been a hunter and a trapper, a
guide and a soldier, and an interpreter; but for the last twenty-five
years I have been away from towns and cities, and have lived altogether
in the woods. The more man lives by himself, the more he likes it, and
yet now and then circumstances bring up the days of his youth, and make
him hesitate whether it be best or not to live alone
I am glad to hear you say that, Malachi
I little thought that I should ever have said it
when I first saw that girl by the side of the stream (looking at
Emma),-- then my heart yearned toward the boy; and now this meeting to
praise God and to keep Christmas-day -- all has helped
But do you not pray when you are alone
Yes, in a manner, miss; but it's not like your prayers; the lips don't
move, although the heart feels. When I lie under a tree watching for the
animals, and I take up a leaf and examine it, I observe how curious and
wonderful it is,-- I then think that God made it, and that man could not.
When I see the young grass springing up, and _how_, I know not, except
that it does so every year, I think of God and his mercy to the wild
animals in giving them food; and then the sun reminds me of God; and the
moon, and the stars, as I watch, make me think of Him; but I feel very
often that there is something wanting, and that I do not worship exactly
as I ought to do. I never have known which is Sunday, although I well
recollect how holy it was kept at my father's house; and I never should
have known that this was Christmas-day, had it not been that I had met
with you. All days are alike to a man who is alone and in the
wilderness, and that should not be -- I feel that it should not
So true is it
that stated times and seasons
are necessary for the due observance of our religious duties; and I am
glad to hear Malachi say this, as I trust it will occasion his being
with us more than he has been
Come to us every Sunday, Malachi
I think I will, ma'am, if I can -- indeed, why I say _if I can_, I know
not; it was wrong to say so
I wish you to come not only on your own account, but for John's sake;
suppose you agree to come every Sunday morning, and leave us every
Monday. You will then have the whole week for your hunting
Please God, I will
And bring the Strawberry with you
I will, miss; it can not but do her good
My children
I now drink all your
healths, and wish you as much happiness as the world affords, and at the
same time accept my most hearty thanks and my dearest love. You have all
been good, obedient, and cheerful, and have lightened many a heavy load.
If when it pleased Providence to send us into this wilderness, it had
been part of my lot to contend with willful and disobedient children; if
there had been murmuring and repining at our trials; discontent and
quarreling among yourselves, how much more painful would have been our
situation. On the contrary, by your good humor and attention, your
willing submission to privations, and your affectionate conduct toward
me, my wife, and each other, you have not allowed us to feel the change
of position to which we have been reduced. I say again, my dear children
all, you have my thanks, and may the Almighty bless and preserve you
Oh! how delightful this is
is it not, Mary, after having
been cooped up for so many weary months
It is, indeed, Emma; I do not wonder at your flow of spirits; I feel
quite another person myself. Well, if the winter is long and dreary, at
all events, it doubly enhances the value of the spring
I think it very odd that Captain Sinclair has not come to see us; don't
you, Mary
I certainly did expect him before this
I presume,
however, his duty will not permit him to come
Surely he could get leave, now that the weather is fine; there was some
reason for his not coming during the winter. I hope he is not ill
I hope so too, most sincerely, Emma
but come, sister,
we must not loiter; hear how the calves are bleating for us to let them
have their breakfast; we shall have more of them very soon; yes, and
plenty of milk, and then we shall have plenty of churning; but I like
work when the weather is fine
Well, ma'am
it's a most reasonable animal, certainly,
and I will say, I never was tired with watching them; I've even forgot,
in the summer-time, what I came out for, from having fallen in with them
at work
And so have I
I once was lying down under a bush by the
side of a stream, and I saw a whole council of them meet together, and
they talked after their own fashion so earnestly, and I really think
they have a language as good as our own. It's always the old ones who
talk, and the young ones who listen
That's true
I once myself saw them hold a council,
and then they all separated to go to work, for they were about to dam up
a stream and build their lodges
And what did they do, Malachi
Why, ma'am, they did all the same as Christians would have done. The
Injuns say that beavers have souls as well as themselves, and certainly,
if sense gave souls, the Injuns would be in the right. The first thing
that they did was to appoint their sentinels to give notice of danger;
for the moment any one comes near them, these sentinels give the signal
and away they all dive, and disappear till the danger is over
There are many beasts as well as birds that do the same
indeed, most of those which are gregarious and live in
flocks
That's true, sir
Well, ma'am, the beavers choose a place fit for their work. What they
require is a stream running through a flat or bottom, which stream of
water they may dam up so as to form a large pond of a sufficient depth
by the water flowing over and covering the flat or bottom several feet;
and when they have found the spot they require, they begin their work
Perhaps
this choice requires more sagacity
than the rest of their labor, for the beavers must have some engineering
talent to make the selection. They must be able to calculate as exactly
as if they took their levels, to secure the size and depth of water in
the pond which is necessary. It is the most wonderful, perhaps, of all
the instincts, or reasoning powers rather, allotted to them
It is, sir; and I've often thought so
and then to
see how they carry all their tools about them; a carpenter's basket
could not be better provided. Their strong teeth serve as axes to cut
down the trees; then their tails serve as trowels for their mason's
work; their fore-feet they use just as we do our hands, and their tails
are also employed as little carts or wheelbarrows
Pray go on, Malachi
I am quite interested already
Well, miss, I have known these little creatures as they are, raise
banks four or five hundred paces in length, and a matter of twenty feet
high in some parts, besides being seven or eight feet thick; and all in
one season,-- perhaps five or six months' work
But how many of them do you reckon are at the work
Perhaps a hundred; not more, I should say
Well; but how do they raise these banks, Malachi
There, miss, they show what sense they have. I've often watched them
when they have been sawing through the large trees with the front teeth;
they could not carry the tree, that's sartin, if the whole of them were
to set to work, so they always pick out the trees by the banks of the
stream, and they examine how the trees incline, to see if they will fall
into the stream; if not, they will not cut them down; and when they are
cutting them down, and they are nearly ready for falling, if the wind
should change and be against the fall, they will leave that tree till
the wind will assist them. As soon as the trees are down, they saw off
the branches and arms, and float the log down to where the dam is to be
made; they lay them across, and as they lay them one upon the other, of
course the water rises and enables them to float down and place the
upper ones. But before that, as soon as the lower logs are in their
places, the animals go and fetch long grass and clay, which they load
upon their flat tails, and drag to the dam, filling up the holes between
the timber till it is as strong as a wall, and the water is completely
stopped
Yes
I have heard them at night working away so hard and
flapping and spattering with their tails, that I could imagine there
were fifty men at work instead of a hundred of these small animals, but
they work by day and by night, and never seem tired, till the dam is
sound and their work is complete
But the raising of the dam is only preparatory, is it not, to their
building their own houses
Nothing more, ma'am; and I think the rest of the work is quite as
wonderful
But it is time to go to bed
and we must,
therefore, leave the remainder of Malachi's story till another evening
I am sure that there is not one of the party who is more anxious to
hear it than I am
but as you say, it
is past ten o'clock, and Malachi and the Strawberry have to go home, so
good-night
Oh, dear! what a pity
I shall dream of beavers all
night, I'm sure I shall
I hope, when the Colonel comes over
that
we shall persuade him to let us have some soldiers this summer, for we
shall want them both for the fencing and getting the hay-crop in. Our
summers are not very long, and there is plenty to do
I think my father intends to make the request
Ah, sir; he will now see the value of this bit of prairie land to a new
settler; instead of having to go in search of hay, as they must do at
the fort now, we have plenty for hay, and plenty for feed. So we are to
have some sheep, I find
Yes, and I suppose we must build a winter-yard for them
To be sure we must, for the wolves are very partial to mutton; I think,
on the whole, that they like pigs better. I wish we could get the fence
up round the prairie, but that we never can do this year without we
have help from the fort
But will it be safe to turn the cows into the bush
Oh yes, sir; they will not be hurt by any thing in the summer time;
sometimes we have trouble to find them again, but not when they have
calves; they are certain to come home every evening to their young
ones
We shall have quite a herd of cattle; eight calves and eight cows
We must only bring up the cow calves, unless your father intends to
have oxen for the yoke. We shall require them about the time they are
fit to break in, that is, in two or three years
Yes, we shall be great farmers by and by
Well, ma'am, as I said the other night, as soon as they have dammed up
the river and made the lake, they then build their houses; and how they
manage to work under water and fix the posts in the ground is a puzzle
to me, but they do fix six posts in the ground, and very firmly, and
then they build their house, which is very curious; it is in the form of
a large oven, and made of clay and fat earth, mixed up with branches and
herbs of all sorts; they have three sets of rooms, one above the other,
so that if the water rises from a freshet or sudden thaw, they may be
able to move higher and keep themselves dry. Each beaver has his own
little room, and the entrance is made under the water, so that they dive
down to go into it, and nothing can harm them
How very curious! and what do they live upon? Malachi
The bark of what we call asp-wood, ma'am, which is a kind of sallow;
they lay up great quantities of it in the autumn as a provision for
winter, when they are frozen up for some months
Well, but how do you take them, Malachi
There are many ways, ma'am; sometimes the Indians break down the dam,
and let off the water, and then they kill them all except a dozen of the
females and half a dozen males; after which they stop up the dam again,
that the animals may breed and increase; sometimes, when the beaver lake
is frozen hard, they break into the beaver house from the top; when they
do that, the beavers all dive and escape, but as they must come up to
breathe at the holes in the ice, they place nets and take them in that
way, but they always leave a sufficient number to keep up the stock;
they also take them in traps baited with the asp-wood; but that is more
difficult.

"But there is another sort of beaver, ma'am, called the land-beaver,
which is more easily taken
they make holes in the
earth like rabbits. The Indians say that these beavers are those who are
lazy and idle, and have been driven out by the others for not working
Now, tell us what you do when you go out to hunt the beaver in the
winter, Malachi
We never hunt the beaver only, ma'am; we go out to hunt every thing; we
go to the beaver lakes, and then we set our traps for beaver, otter,
martin, minks, cats, foxes, and every other animal, some traps large and
some small. We build our hut, and set our traps all about us, and
examine them every day; we cut what flesh is good, and we employ
ourselves skinning the animals which we take
Is the beaver flesh good
Yes, ma'am, very tolerable eating; perhaps the best we find at that
time
But what a miserable life that must be
Well, ma'am, you may think so, but we hunters think otherwise
we are used to it, and to being left alone to our own
thoughts
That's true
I'd rather pass the winter hunting
beavers, than pass it at Quebec, miserable as you may imagine the life
to be
There must be a charm in the life, that is certain
for how many are engaged in it who go out year after year,
and never think of laying up any of their earnings
Very true, sir
what they make from their skins is
spent as soon as they get to Quebec, as I know well, and then they set
off again
Why they are like sailors
who, after a long cruise,
spend all their wages and prize-money in a few days, and then go to sea
again for more
Exactly
and what's the use of money if you keep it?
A trapper can always take up as much powder and ball as he wants upon
credit, and pay with a portion of his skins on his return. What does he
want with the rest? It's of no use to him, and so of course he spends
it
But would it not be better to put it by until he had sufficient to buy
a farm, and live comfortably
But does he live comfortably, ma'am
has he not more
work to do, more things to look after, and more to care for with a farm,
than when he has nothing
It's very true philosophy, after all
happy is
the man who is content to be poor. If a man prefers to live entirely
upon flesh, as the hunters do, there is no reason why he should work
hard and till the ground to procure bread; when the wants are few, the
cares are few also; but still, even the savage must feel the necessity
of exertion when he has a wife and family
Yes, sir, to be sure he does, and he works hard in his own way to
procure their food; but trappers seldom have wives; they would be no use
to them in the woods, and they have no one to provide for but
themselves
It appears to me like a savage life, but a very independent one
and I presume it is the independence which gives it such
charms
That's it, depend upon it, ma'am
But what do you do all the summer time, Malachi
Why, ma'am, we take to our rifles then; there are the deer, and the
lynx, and the wild cats, and squirrels, and the bear, and many other
animals to look after; and sometimes we go bee-hunting, for the honey
Pray tell us how you take the honey, Malachi
Why, ma'am, the bees always live in the hollow of the old trees, and
it's very difficult in a forest to find them out, for the hole which
they enter by is very small and very high up sometimes; however, when we
get a lead, we generally manage it
Tell us what you mean, Malachi
We catch the bees as they settle upon the flowers to obtain honey, and
then we let them go again. The bee, as soon as it is allowed to escape,
flies straight toward its hive; we watch it till we can no longer see
it, and walk in that direction and catch another, and so we go on till
we see them settle upon a tree, and then we know that the hive and honey
must be in that tree, so we cut it down
How very clever
It requires a sharp eye though
to watch the bee far;
some of the trappers catch the bees and give them sugar mixed with
whisky. This makes them tipsy, and they can not fly so fast, and then
they discover the hive much sooner, as they can run almost as fast as
the bee flies
That's capital
but tell me, Martin, how do you kill
the bears
Why, Master Percival, with our rifles, to be sure; the easiest way to
kill them is when they are in their holes in the hollow trees
How do you get them out
Why, we knock the tree with our axes, and they come out to see what's
the matter, and as soon as they put their heads out, we shoot them
Are you in earnest, Martin
Yes, ma'am; quite in earnest
It's all true, ma'am
the bears about here are not
very savage. We had much worse down in Maine. I've seen the Indians in a
canoe on a river watching the bears as they swam across, and kill in the
water six or seven in one day
Still a bear is an awkward sort of animal when it's angry
and, as we may have them down here in the autumn, it's as well
not to let them be thought too lightly of
Indeed, there's no fear of that
as for Malachi, he
thinks nothing dangerous; but I have no wish to see a bear. You say we
may expect them, Martin. Why so
Because, miss, they are very fond of maize, and we have a field of it
sown, which may tempt them
Well, if they do come, I must trust to my rifle
at all events, I do not fear them so much as I did when I
first came here
Don't fire, miss, without you're sure of killing
The
creatures are very dangerous when wounded
Don't be afraid; I'll only fire in self-defense, Malachi; that is, when
I have no other chance left. I had rather trust to my heels than my
rifle. Were you ever hugged by a bear
Well, I wasn't ever hugged; but once I was much closer to one than ever
I wish to be again
Oh! when was that? Do, pray, tell us
It was when I was young, that one day I sounded a tree in the forest
with my ax, and I was certain that a bear was in it: but the animal did
not show itself, so I climbed up the tree to examine the hole at the
top, and see if the bear was at home; as, if so, I was determined to
have him out. Well, miss, I was on the top of the hollow trunk, and was
just putting my head down into the hole, when, all of a sudden, the edge
of the tree which I kneeled upon gave way, like so much tinder, and down
I went into the hollow; luckily for me I did not go down head foremost,
or there I should have remained till this time, for the hole in the
middle of the tree, as I found, was too narrow for me to have turned in,
and there I must have stuck. As it was, I went down with the dust and
crumbles smothering me almost, till I came right on the top of the bear,
who lay at the bottom, and I fell with such force, that I doubled his
head down so that he could not lay hold of me with his teeth, which
would not have been pleasant; indeed, the bear was quite as much, if not
more astonished than myself, and there he lay beneath me, very quiet,
till I could recover a little. Then I thought of getting out, as you may
suppose, fast enough, and the hollow of the tree, providentially, was
not so wide but that I could work up again with my back to one side and
my knees to the other. By this means I gradually got up again to the
hole that I fell in at, and perched myself across the timber to fetch my
breath. I had not been there more than a quarter of a minute, and I
intended to have remained much longer, when I perceived, all of a
sudden, the bear's head within a foot of me; he had climbed up after me,
and I saw that he was very angry, so in a moment I threw myself off my
perch, and down I went to the ground at the foot of the tree, a matter
of near twenty feet, even faster than I went down inside of it. I was
severely shaken with the fall, but no bones were broken; in fact, I was
more frightened than hurt; I lay quite still for a little while, when
the growl of the bear put me in mind of him; I jumped on my legs, and
found that he was coming down the tree after me, and was within six feet
of the ground. There was no time to lose; I caught up my rifle, and had
just time to put it to his ear and settle him, as he was placing his
fore-foot on the ground
What a narrow escape
Well, perhaps it was, but there's no saying, miss, which beats till the
fight is over
To Quebec
and why are you going to Quebec
To confess the truth, Emma
my journey to
Quebec is but the preparatory step to my return to England for perhaps
two or three months
To England! Oh! how I wish
that you would bring me
out all the new fashions
All the new fashions, my dear Emma
Why, do you wish to
be fashionably dressed in the woods of Canada
Why not
I can look at myself in
the glass at all events
I will try to bring you out something which will give you pleasure
but as for the fashions, I know you are only
joking, by your trusting a person so incompetent as I am to select
them
Well, I do not think you would execute my commission very well, so I
will not trouble you
and now let us know why you are
going to England
My dear Emma
you ought not to put such questions;
Captain Sinclair has his own reasons, I have no doubt
It is very true that I have my own reasons
and, as I have no secrets, I will with pleasure gratify Emma's
curiosity. I do not know whether you are aware that I was an orphan at a
very early age, and have been under the charge of a guardian. When my
father died, he left directions in his will that I was not to take
possession of my property till I was twenty-five years of age. I was
twenty-five years old last year, and my guardian has written requesting
me to come home, that he may be relieved of his responsibility, by
making over to me the trust which has been confided to him
Will it detain you long
It must not. It is very difficult to obtain leave of absence from your
regiment in time of war. It is only through interest that I do so now.
On my arrival at Quebec, the Governor will put me on his staff, and
then he will give me leave. I shall not stay longer than is necessary,
as I am anxious to be with my regiment again. You may, therefore, be
certain that, if I am spared, I shall be with you again before the
winter, if not much sooner. So now if you have really any commissions
for me to execute, I can only say I shall be most happy to comply with
your wishes to the best of my ability
Well
we really were not aware that Captain Sinclair
was a man of fortune. You think now you will come back
but if once you get to England, you will remain, and forget
all about Canada
My fortune is not very large
in England,
hardly sufficient to induce a young lady of fashion to look upon me,
although enough, perhaps, for a sensible woman to be happy upon. My
fortune, therefore, will not detain me in England, and, as I said
before, my greatest wish is to rejoin my regiment
Whether you come back or remain
you will
always have our best wishes, Captain Sinclair. We are not ungrateful for
your kindness to us
Nor shall I forget the many happy hours I have passed in your society
but we shall be melancholy if we talk too
long upon the subject. The boat can not remain more than two hours, and
Henry must be ready by that time. The commandant is anxious that it
should start for Montreal this very evening
Then, indeed, we have no time to lose
Henry,
get your trunk ready, and Martin will take it down into the boat before
we sit down to dinner. It will be a long while before we have you to
dine with us again
but I
wish you your health and much happiness till you return. Come, girls,
look after the dinner. Mary! where's Mary
She went into the room a few minutes ago
but I'm here,
and can do all that is required without her or my aunt either. Come,
Percival, lay the cloth; Alfred, come and help me, this is almost too
heavy for me. Oh, here comes my aunt: now you may go away, Alfred; we
can get on better without you
There's gratitude
I can't bear parting with any one that I have been so intimate with
I declare I could sit down and
have a hearty cry at Captain Sinclair's departure
I am not surprised to hear you say so, Emma
In
England, when we were surrounded with friends, parting was always
painful; but here where we have so few, I might almost say only Captain
Sinclair, it is of course most painful. However, it's only for a time, I
hope
It must be very dull to be on duty at the fort
I should
not be surprised at Captain Sinclair's not returning
I should be most exceedingly surprised
I am sure that
he will come back, if he is not unavoidably prevented
Since he has expressed so much desire to rejoin his regiment, I should
be surprised as well as you, Emma
He is not a
volatile young man; but, come, we must clear away the dinner-table
We never know what may come in this world of change, my dear Emma
All Captain Sinclair's plans may be overthrown by
circumstances over which he has no control. How seldom do we meet with
results equal to our expectations. When I was practicing in my
profession, I little expected that I should be summoned to take
possession of Wexton Hall; when once in possession, as little did I
expect that I should be obliged to quit it, and to come to these
desolate wilds. We are in the hands of God, who does with us as He
thinks fit. I have been reading this morning, and I made the observation
not only how often individuals, but even nations, are out in their
expectations. I do not know a more convincing proof of this than the
narration of events, which from their recent occurrence, can hardly yet
be considered as history, has offered to me. Perhaps there never was so
short a period in which causes have produced effects so rapidly, and in
which, in every case, the effects have been directly opposite to what
short-sighted mortals had anticipated. It was in 1756, scarcely forty
years ago, that the French, being in possession of the provinces,
attempted to wrest from us those portions of America which we occupied.
What was the result? After a war which, for cruelty and atrocity, is
perhaps unequaled in history, both parties employing savages, by whom
the French and English were alternately tortured and burned to death,
France, in attempting to obtain all, lost all, and was compelled, in
1760, to surrender its own provinces to Great Britain. Here is one
instance in which affairs turned out contrary to the expectations of
France.

"Now again: At no period was England more prosperous or more respected
by foreign nations than at the close of the war. Her prosperity made her
arrogant and unjust. She wronged her colonies. She thought that they
dared not resist her imperious will. She imagined that now that the
French were driven from the Canadas, America was all her own, whereas it
was because the French _were_ driven from the Canadas that the colonies
ventured to resist. As long as the French held this country, the English
colonists had an enemy on their frontiers, and consequently looked up to
England for support and protection. They required aid and assistance,
and as long as they did require it, they were not likely to make any
remonstrance at being taxed to pay a portion of the expense which was
incurred. Had the French possessed an army under Montcalm ready to
advance at the time that the Stamp Act, or the duty upon tea, salt,
etc., was imposed, I question very much if the colonists would have made
any remonstrance. But no longer requiring an army for their own
particular defense, these same duties induced them to rise in rebellion
against what they considered injustice, and eventually to assert their
independence. Here, again, we find that affairs turned out quite
contrary to the expectations of England.

"Observe again. The American colonists gained their independence, which
in all probability they would not have done had they not been assisted
by the numerous army and fleet of France, who, irritated at the loss of
the Canadas, wished to humiliate England by the loss of her own American
possessions. But little did the French king and his noblesse imagine,
that in upholding the principles of the Americans, and allowing the
French armies and navies (I may say the people of France _en masse_) to
be imbued with the same principles of equality, that they were sowing
the seeds of a revolution in their own country which was to bring the
king, as well as the major part of the nobility, to the scaffold.

"There, again, the events did not turn out according to expectation, and
you will observe in every attempt made by either party, the result was,
that the blow fell upon their own heads, and not upon that of the party
which it was intended to crush
I remember
having somewhere read a story of an Eastern king who purchased a
proverb of a dervise, which he ordered to be engraven on all the gold
and silver utensils in the palace. The proverb was, 'Never undertake any
thing until you have well considered the end.' It so happened, that
there was a conspiracy against the king, and it was arranged that his
surgeon should bleed him with a poisoned lancet. The surgeon agreed -- the
king's arm was bound up, and one of the silver basins was held to
receive the blood. The surgeon read the inscription, and was so struck
with the force of it, that he threw down the lancet, confessed the plot,
and thus was the life of the king preserved
A very apt story, Alfred
The question now is
as two of the parties, France
and England, have proved so short-sighted, whether the Americans, having
thrown off their allegiance, have not been equally so in their choice of
a democratical government
How far a modern democracy may succeed, I am not prepared to say
but this I do know, that in ancient times, their
duration was generally very short, and continually changing to oligarchy
and tyranny. One thing is certain, that there is no form of government
under which the people become so rapidly vicious, or where those who
benefit them are treated with such ingratitude
How do you account for that, sir
There are two principal causes. One is, that where all men are declared
to be equal (which man never will permit his fellow to be if he can
prevent it), the only source of distinction is wealth, and thus the
desire of wealth becomes the ruling passion of the whole body, and there
is no passion so demoralizing. The other is, that where the people, or,
more properly speaking, the mob govern, they must be conciliated by
flattery and servility on the part of those who would become their
idols. Now flattery is lying, and a habit equally demoralizing to the
party who gives and to the party who receives it. Depend upon it, there
is no government so contemptible or so unpleasant for an honest man to
live under as a democracy
It is my opinion, sir, and I believe a very general one
How far the Americans may disprove such an opinion
remains to be seen; but this is certain, they have commenced
their new form of government with an act of such gross injustice, as to
warrant the assumption that all their boasted virtues are pretense. I
refer to their not liberating their slaves. They have given the lie to
their own assertions in their Declaration of Independence, in which they
have declared all men equal and born free, and we can not expect the
Divine blessing upon those who, when they emancipated themselves, were
so unjust as to hold their fellow-creatures in bondage. The time will
come, I have no doubt, although perhaps not any of us here present may
see the day, when the retribution will fall upon their heads, or rather
upon the heads of their offspring; for the sins of the fathers are
visited upon the children, even to the third and fourth generation. But
it is time for us to think of retiring -- good-night, and God bless you
all
I assure you, Mr. Campbell
I was very anxious about you
last winter, and I am rejoiced that you got over it with so little
difficulty. At one time we had apprehensions of the Indians, but these
have passed over for the present. They meet again this summer, but the
Quebec government are on the alert, and I have no doubt but that a
little conciliation will put an end to all animosity. We expect a large
supply of blankets and other articles to be sent up this spring, as
presents to the tribes, which we hope will procure their good-will; and
we have taken up several French emissaries, who were working mischief
But still we shall be liable to the assaults of straggling parties
That is true
but against them you have your own
means of defense. You would, in so isolated a position, be equally
liable to a burglary in England -- only with the difference that in
England you would have the laws to appeal to, whereas here you must take
the law into your own hands
It certainly is not pleasant to be in a continual state of anxiety
but we knew what we had to expect before we came
here, and we must make the best of it. So you have lost Captain
Sinclair, Colonel; he is a great loss to us
Yes, he is to go to England for a short time
but we shall soon have him back again. He must be very fond of his
profession to remain in it with his means
He told us that he was about to take possession of a small property
A property of nearly &pound;2,000 per annum
He may
consider it a small property, but I should think it otherwise if it had
fallen to my lot
Indeed I had no idea, from what he said, that it was so large
Well, I have a high opinion of him, and have no doubt
but that he will make a good use of it
At all events, he can afford the luxury of a wife
which we soldiers seldom can
I have been thinking, Mr. Campbell, that it will be very advantageous
to the government as well as to you, when your farm is cleared and
stocked, if, with the water-power you possess here, you were to erect a
flour-mill and a saw-mill. You observe that the government has to supply
the fort with flour and provisions of all kinds at a very heavy expense
of carriage, and the cattle we have at the fort will cost us more than
they are worth, now that we have lost your prairie farm, so conveniently
situated for us. On the other hand, your produce will be almost useless
to you, at the distance you are from any mart; as you will not find any
sale for it. Now, if you were to erect a mill, and grind your own wheat,
which you may do in another year, if you have funds sufficient; and as
you may have plenty of stock, you will be able to supply the fort with
flour, beef, pork, and mutton, at a good profit to yourself, and at
one-half the price which government pays at present. I have written to
the Governor on the subject, stating that we have not the means of
keeping our stock, and pointing out to him what I now point out to you.
I expect an answer in a few days, and should he authorize me, I may make
arrangements with you even now, which will be satisfactory, I have no
doubt
That is the very point which I wished to ascertain; but I felt some
delicacy about making the inquiry. Now I consider that there will be no
difficulty in our arrangements
Well, Alfred, what do you think of the Colonel's proposition
Yes
you are a party deeply concerned in it
How so, dear coz
Why, don't you perceive that if the mill is erected, you will be the
proper person to have charge of it? What a change of professions, from a
sailor to a miller. I think I see you in your coat, all white with
flour, coming in to dinner
My dear Emma, you don't intend it, I am sure, but you do not know that
you are inflicting pain upon me. When the Colonel made the proposition,
I felt the importance of it, as it would be a source of great profit to
my father; but at the same time, I don't know how it is, I have always
indulged the idea that we may not stay here forever, and this plan
appeared so like decidedly settling down to a residence for life, that
it made me low-spirited. I know that it is foolish, and that we have no
chance of ever removing -- but still I can not, even with this almost
certainty before my eyes, keep my mind from thinking upon one day
returning to my profession, and the idea of becoming a miller for life
is what I can not as yet contemplate with any degree of composure
Well, Alfred, I only did it to tease you a little -- not to hurt your
feelings, believe me
You shall not be a miller if you
don't like it. Henry will do better, perhaps, than you; but as for our
quitting this place, I have no idea of it's being ever possible. I have
made up my mind to live and die in the Canadian woods, considering it my
wayward fate that all 'my sweetness should be wasted on the desert
air
Repining is useless, if not sinful
We have
much to be thankful for; at least we are independent, and if we are ever
to repay the kindness of our uncle and aunt, who must feel their change
of condition so much more than we do, it must be by cheerfulness and
content. I have been thinking as well as you, Alfred, and I'll tell you
what was in my thoughts. I looked forward to a few years, by which time,
as the country fills up so fast, it is very probable that we shall have
other settlers here as neighbors, in every direction. This will give us
security. I also fancied that my uncle's farm and property became of
value and importance, and that he himself became a leading man in the
district; not only at his ease, but, for a settler, even wealthy; and
then I fancied that, surrounded by others, in perfect security, and in
easy and independent circumstances, my uncle would not forget the
sacrifice which my cousin Alfred so nobly made, and would insist upon
his returning to that profession to which he is so much attached, and in
which I have no doubt but that he will distinguish himself
Well said, my sweet prophet
you
have more sense than both of us
Answer for yourself, Alfred, if you please
I shall not forget that remark of yours, I can
assure you. Now, I prophesy quite the contrary; Alfred will never go to
sea again. He will be taken with the charms of some Scotch settler's
daughter, some Janet or Moggy, and settle down into a Canadian farmer,
mounted on a long-legged black pony
And I too
prophesy, that at the same time that I
marry and settle as you have described Miss Emma Percival will yield up
her charms to some long-legged, black, nondescript sort of a fellow, who
will set up a whisky-shop and instal his wife as bar-maid to attend upon
and conciliate his customers
Emma, I think you have the worst of this peeping into futurity
Yes, if Alfred were not a false prophet, of which there are always many
going about
however, I hope your prophecy may be the
true one, Mary, and then we shall get rid of him
I flatter myself that you would be very sorry if I went away; you would
have no one to tease, at all events
and that would be
a sad loss to yourself
Well, there's some sense in that remark
but the cows are
waiting to be milked, and so, Mr. Alfred, if you are on your good
behavior, you had better go and bring us the pails
I really pity Alfred
his sacrifice has been very great, and, much as he must feel it, how
well he bears up against it
He is a dear, noble fellow
and I do love him very
much, although I can not help teasing him
But on some points you should be cautious, my dear sister; you don't
know what pain you give
Yes I do, and am always sorry when I have done it, but it is not until
afterward that I recollect it, and then I am very angry with myself.
Don't scold me, dear Mary, I will try to be wiser; I wonder whether what
you say will come to pass, and we shall have neighbors; I wish we had,
if it were only on account of those Indians
I think it very probable
but time will show
Dear uncle, only hear this, how sorry I
am
What is it, my dear
Mrs. Douglas Campbell, of Wexton Hall, of a son, which survived but a
few hours after birth
I am very sorry too, my dear Emma
Mr. Douglas
Campbell's kindness to us must make us feel for any misfortune which may
happen to him, and to rejoice in any blessing which may be bestowed upon
him
It must have been a serious disappointment
but
one which, if it pleases God, may be replaced; and we may hope that
their expectations, though blighted for the present, may be realized on
some future occasion
Here is a letter from Colonel Forster, which I overlooked
it was between the envelope. He says that he has received an
answer from the Governor, who fully agrees with him in his views on the
subject we were conversing about, and has allowed him to take any steps
which he may think advisable. The Colonel says that he will call upon me
again in a few days, and that if in the meantime, I will let him know
how many soldiers I wish to employ, he will make arrangements to meet my
views as far as lies in his power. We have to thank Heaven for sending
us friends, at all events
but at present, we
will put his letter aside, and return to our English news
Dear England
Yes, dear England, my good girl; we are English, and can love our
country as much now as we did when we lived in it. We are still English,
and in an English colony; it has pleased Heaven to remove us away from
our native land, but our hearts and feelings are still the same, and so
will all English hearts be found to be in every settlement made by our
country all over the wide world. We all glory in being English, and have
reason to be proud of our country. May the feeling never be lost, but
have an elevating influence upon our general conduct
Martin wishes me to speak to you, sir
Martin
why, yes, I perceive he is gone out. What can
it be that he can not say for himself
That's just what I said to him
but he thought it
were better to come through me; the fact is, sir, that he has taken a
liking to the Strawberry, and wishes to make her his wife
Indeed
Yes, sir; I don't think that he would have said any thing about it as
yet, but you see, there are so many soldiers here, and two or three of
them are of Martin's mind, and that makes him feel uncomfortable till
the thing is settled; and as he can't well marry while in your service
without your leave, he has asked me to speak about it
Well, but the Strawberry is your property, not mine. Malachi
Yes, sir, according to Indian fashion, I am her father; but I've no
objection, and shan't demand any presents for her
Presents for her! why we in general give presents or money with a
wife
Yes, I know you do, but English wives ain't Indian wives; an English
wife requires people to work for her and costs money to keep, but an
Indian wife works for herself and her husband, so she is of value and is
generally bought of the father; I reckon in the end that it's cheaper to
pay for an Indian wife than to receive money with an English one; but
that's as may be
That's not a very polite speech of yours, Malachi
Perhaps it ain't, ma'am, but it's near the mark, nevertheless. Now I am
willing that Martin should have the Strawberry, because I know that he
is a smart hunter, and will keep her well; and somehow or another, I
feel that if he made her his wife, I should be more comfortable; I shall
live with them here close by, and Martin will serve you, and when he
has a wife he will not feel inclined to change service and go into the
woods
I think it is an excellent proposal, Malachi, and am much pleased with
it, as we now shall have you all together
Yes, ma'am, so you will, and then I'll be always with the boy to look
after him, and you'll always know where we are, and not be frightened
Very true, Malachi
I consider it a very good
arrangement. We must build you a better lodge than the one that you are
in
No, sir, not a better one, for if you have all you want, you can't want
more; it's big enough, but perhaps not quite near enough. I'm thinking
that when the sheep-fold is finished, it might be as well to raise our
lodge inside of the palisades, and then we shall be a sort of guard to
the creatures
A very excellent idea, Malachi; well then, as far as I am concerned,
Martin has my full consent to marry as soon as he pleases
And mine, if it is at all necessary
But who is to marry them
they have no chaplain at the
fort; he went away last year
Why, miss, they don't want no chaplain; she is an Indian girl, and he
will marry her Indian-fashion
But what fashion is that, Malachi
Why, miss, he'll come to the lodge, and fetch her away to his own
house
That's making short work of it
Yes, rather too short for my approval
Malachi,
it's very true that the Strawberry is an Indian girl, but we are not
Indians, and Martin is not an Indian, neither are you who stand as her
father; indeed, I can not consent to give my sanction to such a
marriage
Well, ma'am, as you please, but it appears to me to be all right. If
you go into a country and wish to marry a girl of that country, you
marry her according to the rules of that country. Now, Martin seeks an
Indian squaw, and why not therefore marry her after Indian fashion
You may be right, Malachi, in your argument
but
still you must make allowances for our prejudices. We never should think
that she was a married woman, if no further ceremony was to take place
than what you propose
Well, ma'am, just as you please; but still, suppose you marry them
after your fashion, the girl won't understand a word that is said, so
what good will it do
None to her at present, Malachi; but recollect, if she is not a
Christian at present, she may be hereafter; I have often thought upon
that subject, and although I feel it useless to speak to her just now,
yet as soon as she understands English well enough to know what I say to
her, I hope to persuade her to become one. Now, if she should become a
Christian, as I hope in God she will, she then will perceive that she
has not been properly married, and will be anxious to have the ceremony
properly performed over again; so why not do it now
Well, ma'am, if it pleases you, I have no objection; I'm sure Martin
will have none
It will please me very much, Malachi
And although there is no chaplain at the fort
yet the Colonel can marry in his absence; a marriage by a commanding
officer is quite legal
Yes
and so is one by a Captain of a man-of-war
So be it then
the sooner the better, for the
soldiers are very troublesome, and I can not keep them out of my lodge
Well
I little thought we should have a wedding in the
family so soon; this is quite an event. Martin, I wish you joy -- you will
have a very pretty and a very good wife
I think so too, miss
Where is she
She is in the garden, miss
getting out of the way of
the soldiers; now that the work is done, they torment her not a little,
and she is glad to escape from them; I'd tell them to go away, but they
don't mind me; they know I must not use my rifle
I should hope not
it would be hard to shoot a
good man merely because he wished to marry your daughter
Why, yes, ma'am, it would
so the sooner she is
given to Martin the sooner we shall have peace
How cheerful and gay every thing looks now
One could hardly
credit that in a few months all this animated landscape will be nothing
but one dreary white mass of snow and ice, with no sounds meeting the
ear but the howling of the storm and the howling of the wolves
Two very agreeable additions certainly
but what you
observe was actually occurring to my own mind at the very moment
This looks but little like a wilderness now, Mary, does it
No, my dear sister. It is very different from what it was when we first
came; but still I should like to have some neighbors
So should I; any society is better than none at all
There I do not agree with you; at the same time, I think we could find
pleasure in having about us even those who are not cultivated, provided
they were respectable and good
That's what I would have said, Mary; but we must go in, and practice
the new air for the guitar which Henry brought us from Montreal. We
promised him that we would. Here comes Alfred to spend his idleness upon
us
His idleness, Emma; surely, you don't mean that; he's seldom if ever
unemployed
Some people are very busy about nothing
Yes; and some people say what they do not mean, sister
Well, Alfred, here is Emma pronouncing you to be an idle body
I am not likely to be that, at all events
My father proposes to give me enough to
do. What do you think he said to me this morning before breakfast
I suppose he said that you might as well go to sea again as remain
here
No, indeed; I wish he had; but he has proposed that your prophecy
should be fulfilled, my malicious little cousin. He has proposed my
turning miller
How do you mean
Why, he pointed out to me that the mill would cost about two hundred
and fifty pounds, and that he thought as my half-pay was unemployed,
that it would be advisable that I should expend it in erecting the mill,
offering me the sum necessary for the purpose. He would advance the
money, and I might repay him as I received my pay. That, he said, would
be a provision for me, and eventually an independence
I told you that you would be a miller
Poor
Alfred
Well, what did you reply, Alfred
I said yes, I believe, because I did not like to say no
You did perfectly right, Alfred
There can be no harm
in your having the property, and had you refused it, it would have given
pain to your father. If your money is laid out on the mill, my uncle
will have more to expend upon the farm; but still it does not follow
that you are to become a miller all your life
I should hope not
as soon as Emma meets with that
long black gentleman we were talking of, I'll make it over to her as a
marriage portion
Thank you, cousin
I may put you in mind of your
promise; but now Mary and I must go in and astonish the soldiers with
our music; so good-by, Mr. Campbell, the miller
Who would think
that we had only been here so short a time
Many hands make light work
we have done with the
help from the fort what it would have taken us six years to do with our
own resources. My father's money has been well laid out, and will bring
in good return
You have heard of the proposal of Colonel Forster, about the cattle at
the fort
No; what is it
He wrote to my father yesterday, saying, as he had only the means of
feeding the cows necessary for the officers of the garrison, that he
would sell all the oxen at present at the fort at a very moderate
price
But even if we have fodder enough for them during the winter what are
we to do with them
Sell them again to the fort for the supply of the troops
and thereby gain good profit. The commandant says that it will
be cheaper to government in the end than being compelled to feed them
That it will, I have no doubt, now that they have nothing to give them;
they trusted chiefly to our prairie for hay; and if they had not had
such a quantity in store, they could not have fed them last winter
My father will consent, I know; indeed he would be very foolish not to
do so, for most of them will be killed when the winter sets in, and will
only cost us the grazing
We are fortunate in finding such friends as we have done
All this assistance would not have been given to perhaps any
other settlers
No, certainly not; but you see, Alfred, we are indebted to your
influence with Captain Lumley for all these advantages, at least my
father and mother say so, and I agree with them. Captain Lumley's
influence with the Governor has created all this interest about us
I think we must allow that the peculiar position of the family has done
much toward it. It is not often that they meet with settlers of refined
habits and cultivated minds, and there naturally must be a feeling
toward a family of such a description in all generous minds
Very true, Alfred
but there is our mother waiting for
us to go in to dinner
Yes; and the Strawberry by her side. What a nice little creature she
is
Yes; and how quickly she is becoming useful. She has almost given up
her Indian customs and is settling down quietly into English habits.
Martin appears very fond of her
And so he ought to be
a wife with a smile always upon
her lips is a treasure. Come, let us go in
Why, who is this
I know his tribe
but not his name; but he is a chief
and a warrior
He does not choose to give his name
and, therefore,
he is here for no good. Mr. Alfred, just fetch Malachi; he will know him
I dare say
It's strange
how he could have come here; but to be
sure neither Malachi nor I have been out lately
I knew him, sir
the moment I saw his back. He's after
no good, and it's a thousand pities that he has come just now and seen
all this
it's a strong temptation
Why, who is he
The Angry Snake, sir
I had no idea that he would be
in these parts before the meeting of the Indian council, which takes
place in another month, and then I meant to have been on the look-out
for him
But what have we to fear from him
Well; that's to be proved; but this I can say, that he has his eyes
upon what appears to him of more value than all the gold in the
universe; and he's any thing but honest
But we have nothing to fear from one man
His party ain't far off, sir
He has some followers,
although not many, and those who follow him are as bad as himself. We
must be on the watch
ugh
I have told him that all the powder and ball that he sees are for our
rifles, which are more than are possessed by his whole tribe. Not that
it does much good, but at all events it's just as well to let him know
that we shall be well prepared. The crittur's quite amazed at so much
ammunition; that's a fact. It's a pity he ever saw it
Shall we give him some
No, no, sir; he would only make use of it to try to get the rest;
however, I believe that he is the only one of his party who has a rifle.
The best thing is to close the doors and then he will go
He is a regular devil, that Angry Snake
but never mind, I'll be a match for him. I wish
he'd never seen all that ammunition, nevertheless
At all events, we had better not say a word in the house about his
making his appearance
It will only alarm the
women, and do no good
That's true, sir. I'll only tell the Strawberry
she's
an Indian, and it will put her on the look-out
That will be as well, but caution her not to mention it to Mrs.
Campbell or the girls, Martin
Never fear, sir
I'll watch his motions
nevertheless; to-morrow I'll be in the woods and on his trail. I'm glad
that he saw me here, for he fears me; I know that
Great fire in the woods
Do you think there is any danger, Martin, from this fire
Why, sir, that depends upon circumstances; if the wind were to blow
from the quarter which it now does, as hard as it does, for another
twenty-four hours, we should have the fire right down upon us
But still we have so much clear land between the forest and us, that I
should think the house would be safe
I don't know that, sir. You have never seen the woods afire for miles
as I have; if you had, you would know what it was. We have two chances:
one is, that we may have torrents of rain come down with the gale, and
the other is, that the wind may shift a point or two, which would be the
best chance for us of the two
Well, Malachi
this is very awful. What shall we
do
Trust in God, sir; we can do nothing else
You must all go down to the punt, and get on board
There's not a moment for delay; you will be smothered if you remain
here. Mr. Alfred, do you and Martin pull out as far into the lake as is
necessary for you to be clear of the smoke and able to breathe. Quick,
there is no time to be lost, for the gale is rising faster than before
And old Malachi and John, where are they
Oh, never fear them, ma'am
Malachi staid behind to
see if he could be of use. He knows how to take care of himself, and of
John too
This is an awful visitation
Look,
the whole wood is now on fire, close down to the clearing. The house
must be burned, and we shall save nothing
It is the will of God, my dear wife; and if we are to be deprived of
what little wealth we have, we must not murmur, but submit with
resignation. Let us thank Heaven that our lives are preserved
There is the cow-house on fire -- I see the flames bursting from the
roof
There is a lull in the wind
Yes
I felt a drop
of rain. Yes, it's coming; another quarter of an hour and we may be
safe
It's all over, and all is safe
it was touch and
go, that's sartin; but all's safe, except the cow-house, and that's
easily put to rights again. You all had better go home as fast as you
can, and get to bed
Is all quite safe, do you think, Malachi
Yes, sir, no fear now; the fire hasn't passed the stream, and even if
it had, this rain would put it out, for we only have the beginning of
it; but it was a near thing, that's sartin
The stock are all right, sir
I counted them, and there
is not one missing. There's no harm done except to the cow-house; on the
contrary, the fire has proved a good friend to us
How so, Martin
Because it has cleared many acres, of ground, and saved us much labor.
All on the other side of the stream is now cleared away, and next spring
we will have corn between the stumps; and in autumn, after we have
gathered in the harvest, we will cut down and burn the trees which are
now standing. It has done a deal of good to the prairie also, we shall
have fine herbage there next spring
We have to thank Heaven for its mercy
at one time
yesterday evening, I thought we were about to be rendered destitute
indeed, but it has pleased God that it should be otherwise
Yes, sir
what threatened your ruin has turned out
to your advantage. Next year you will see every thing green and fresh as
before; and, as Martin says, you have to thank the fire for clearing
away more land for you than a whole regiment of soldiers could have done
in two or three years
But we must work hard and get in the corn next spring, for otherwise
the brushwood will grow up so fast, as to become a forest again in a few
years
I never thought of inquiring
how it was that the forest
could have taken fire
Why, miss
in the autumn, when every thing is as dry
as tinder, nothing is more easy. The Indians light their fire, and do
not take the trouble to put it out, and that is generally the cause of
it; but then it requires wind to help it
Did you kill, my boy
Don't know
come for the key to see
I don't like the gate being opened at night, John
why don't you leave it, as you usually do, till to-morrow morning; that
will be time enough
I don't know if it was a wolf
What, then, boy, tell me
Well, I think it was an Indian
Well, I shouldn't wonder
at all events the gate
must not be opened to-night, for if it was an Indian you fired at, there
is more than one of them; we'll keep all fast, John, and see what it was
to-morrow
We will keep watch to-night at all events
The boy is right, I
have no doubt. It is the Angry Snake and his party who are prowling
about, but if the boy has hit the Indian, which I have no doubt of, they
will make off; however, it will be just as well to be on our guard,
nevertheless. Martin can watch here and I will watch in the fold
I will watch here
let Martin go home with you and his
wife
I will watch with you
Well, perhaps that will be better
two rifles are
better than one, and if any assistance is required, there will be one to
send for it
But what do you think they would do, Malachi
they
can not climb the palisades
Not well, sir, nor do I think they would attempt it unless they had a
large force, which I am sure they have not; no, sir, they would rather
endeavor to set fire to the house if they could, but that's not so easy;
one thing is certain, that the Snake will try all he can to get
possession of what he saw in your storehouse
That I do not doubt
but he will not find it so easy a
matter
They've been reconnoitering, sir, that's the truth of it, and if John
has helped one of them to a bit of lead, it will do good; for it will
prove that we are on the alert, and make them careful how they come near
the house again
Yes, sir
it was an Indian, no doubt of it; here are
the dents made in the snow by his knees as he crawled along, and John
has hit him, for here is the blood. Let's follow the trail. See, sir, he
has been hard hit; there is more blood this way as we go on. Ha
here's the
wolf-skin he was covered up with; then he is dead or thereabouts, and
they have carried him off, for he never would have parted with his skin,
if he had had his senses about him
Yes
his wound was mortal, that's certain
I am grieved that blood has been shed
I wish
it had not happened. I have heard that the Indians never forgive on such
occasions
Why, ma'am, they are very revengeful, that's certain, but still they
won't like to risk too much. This has been a lesson to them. I only wish
it had been the Angry Snake himself who was settled, as then we should
have no more trouble or anxiety about them
Perhaps it may be
No, sir, that's not likely; it's one of his young men; I know the
Indian customs well
Why, aunt, have you such an objection to Percival going out with the
hunters
It must be very trying to him to be always
detained at home
I feel the truth of what you say, my dear Mary
and I assure you it is not out of selfishness, or because we shall have
more work to do, that I wish him to remain with us; but I have an
instinctive dread that some accident will happen to him, which I can
not overcome, and there is no arguing with a mother's fears and a
mother's love
You were quite as uneasy, my dear aunt, when John first went out; you
were continually in alarm about him, but now you are perfectly at ease
Very true
it is, perhaps, a weakness on my part
which I ought to get over; but we are all liable to such feelings. I
trust in God there is no real cause for apprehension, and that my
reluctance is a mere weakness and folly. But I see the poor boy has long
pined at being kept at home; for nothing is more irksome to a
high-couraged and spirited boy as he is. I have, therefore, given my
consent, because I think it is my duty; still the feeling remains, so
let us say no more about it, my dear girls, for the subject is painful
to me
My dear aunt, did you not say that you would talk to Strawberry on the
subject of religion, and try if you could not persuade her to become a
Christian? She is very serious at prayers, I observe; and appears, now
that she understands English, to be very attentive to what is said
Yes, my dear Emma, it is my intention so to do very soon, but I do not
like to be in too great a hurry. A mere conforming to the usages of our
religion would be of little avail, and I fear that too many of our good
missionaries, in their anxiety to make converts, do not sufficiently
consider this point. Religion must proceed from conviction, and be
seated in the heart; the heart, indeed, must be changed, not mere
outward forms attended to
What is the religion of the Indians, my dear aunt
One which makes conversion the more difficult. It is in many respects
so near what is right, that Indians do not easily perceive the necessity
of change. They believe in one God, the fountain of all good; they
believe in a future state and in future rewards and punishments. You
perceive they have the same foundation as we have, although they know
not Christ, and, having very incomplete notions of duty, have a very
insufficient sense of their manifold transgressions and offenses in
God's sight, and consequently have no idea of the necessity of a
mediator. Now it is, perhaps, easier to convince those who are entirely
wrong, such as worship idols and false gods, than those who approach so
nearly to the truth. But I have had many hours of reflection upon the
proper course to pursue, and I do intend to have some conversation with
her on the subject in a very short time. I have delayed because I
consider it absolutely necessary that she should be perfectly aware of
what I say, before I try to alter her belief. Now the Indian language,
although quite sufficient for Indian wants, is poor, and has not the
same copiousness as ours, because they do not require the words to
explain what we term abstract ideas. It is, therefore, impossible to
explain the mysteries of our holy religion to one who does not well
understand our language. I think, however, that the Strawberry now
begins to comprehend sufficiently for me to make the first attempt. I
say first attempt, because I have no idea of making a convert in a week,
or a month, or even in six months. All I can do is to exert my best
abilities, and then trust to God, who, in His own good time, will
enlighten her mind to receive His truth
Now, you see there's a fine lot of deer here, Master Percival, but as
you know nothing about woodcraft, and may put us all out, observe what I
say to you. The animals are not only cute of hearing and seeing, but
they are more cute of smell, and they can scent a man a mile off if the
wind blows down to them; so you see it would be useless to attempt to
get near to them if we do not get to the lee side of them without noise
and without being seen. Now, the wind has been from the eastward, and as
we are to the southward, we must get round by the woods to the westward,
before we go upon the open ground, and then, Master Percival, you must
do as we do, and keep behind, to watch our motions. If we come to a
swell in the land, you must not run up, or even walk up, as you might
show yourself; the deer might be on the other side, within twenty yards
of you; but you must hide yourself, as you will see that we shall do,
and when we have found them, I will put you in a place where you shall
have your shot as well as we. Do you understand, Master Percival
Yes, I do, and I shall stop behind, and do as you tell me
Well then, now, we will go back into the thick of the forest till we go
to the leeward, and then we shall see whether you will make a hunter or
not
It is sartin
that they are flurried about something; they
appear just as if they had been hunted, and yet that is not likely. We
must wait and let them settle a little, and find out whether any other
parties have been hunting them
Are you much hurt, sir
No, not much
at least I think not, but my shoulder
is badly torn, and I bleed freely
A painter
well, I didn't think we should see one
so far west. Are you hurt, Mr. Alfred
Yes, a little
John, run for some water
you are certain to find some
in the hollow
I will sit down for a little longer
and then we will get
home as fast as we can. Martin, look after the game, and when you are
ready I will get up. What a tremendous heavy brute that was; I could not
have stood against him for a minute longer, and I had no hunting-knife
It's a terrible beast, sir
I don't know that I ever
saw one larger; they are more than a match for one man, sir, and never
should be attempted single-handed, for they are so hard to kill
Where did my ball hit him
Here, sir, under the shoulder, and well placed too. It must have gone
quite close to his heart; but unless you hit them through the brain or
through the heart, they are certain to make their dying spring. That's
an ugly wound on your shoulder, and will put a stop to your hunting for
five or six weeks, I expect. However, it's well that it's no worse
I feel quite strong now
Another ten minutes, sir; let John and me whip off his skin, for we
must have it to show, if we have all the venison spoiled. Mr. Henry,
tell Martin only to take the prime pieces, and not to mind the hides,
for we shall not be able to carry much. And tell him to be quick, Mr.
Henry, for it will not do for Mr. Alfred to remain till his arm gets
stiff. We have many miles to get home again
Dear Emma, how kind of you
Do not move, Alfred; they will soon have the litter ready, and then you
will be carried to the house. It is not far off
I am strong again now, Emma
But you must not remain
here in the cold. See, the snow is falling again
I must remain now till they are ready to carry you, Alfred, for I dare
not go back by myself
Where is Percival
He's behind a little way
The snow-shoes hurt him, and
he could not walk so fast. He will be here in a minute
Why, where's Percival
Percival! Is he not here
Percival not here
Where -- where
is my child
He was just behind us
he sat down to alter his
snow-shoes; the ties hurt him
The boy will be lost for sartin
if he has
remained behind till this fall of snow, he never will find his way, but
wander about till he perishes
Yes
he has but a poor chance, that is the truth; I
would have given my right arm this had not happened
Misfortune never comes single
what can we do? Madam
Campbell will be beside herself, for she loves that boy beyond all
measure
It's useless our going out
we should never find
him, and only lose ourselves; but still we had better go back, and say
that we will try. At all events we can go to the edge of the forest, and
halloo every minute or so; if the boy is still on his legs, it will
guide him to us
Yes
and we may light a pine torch; it might be of
some use. Well, then, let's go in, and tell them that we are going in
search of the boy; as long as madam knows that we are seeking him she
will not lose hope, and hope will keep up her spirits for the time, till
she is better prepared for her loss
Do you think that my poor boy is lost, Malachi
He is, I fear, sir; he must have sat down to rest himself, and has been
overpowered and fallen asleep. He has been buried in the snow, and he
will not wake till the day of resurrection
His poor mother
What of my child,-- my dear, dear Percival
The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away
your child is happy
We were very much alarmed about you last autumn, when the woods were on
fire, Mr. Campbell
but I perceive that it has been
of great advantage to you. You have now a large quantity of cleared land
sown with seed, and if you had possessed sufficient means, might have
had much more put in, as I perceive all the land to the north-west is
cleared by the fire
Yes
but my allotment, as you know, extends
along the beach, and we have sown the seed as far from the beach as the
property extends
Then I should recommend you to write to Quebec, and apply for another
grant on each side of the stream; indeed, at the back of and equal to
what you now have
But if I do, I have not the means of working the land
No, not with your present force, I grant; but there are many emigrants
who would be glad of work, and who would settle here upon favorable
conditions
The expense would be very great
It would; but the return would indemnify you. The troops at the fort
would take all the flour off your hands, if you had ever so much
I am not inclined at present to speculate much further
but I shall see how this year turns out, and if I find that I
am successful, I will then decide
Of course, you will but act prudently. You can send down to your agent
at Quebec, and ascertain what would be the probable terms of the men you
might require. But there is another way, which is to give them the land
to cultivate, and the seed, and to receive from them a certain portion
of corn in return, as rent; that is very safe, and your land will be all
gradually brought into cultivation, besides the advantage of having
neighbors about you. You might send one of your sons down to Montreal,
and arrange all that
I certainly will write to my agent and institute inquiries
and many thanks to you for the suggestion; I have still a
few hundred at the bank to dispose of, if necessary
You are very fortunate in your purchase
the
land is excellent, and you have a good water-power in the stream, as
well as convenient carriage by the lake. Fifty years hence this property
will be worth a large sum of money
I want very much to get some more emigrants to settle here
It would add to our security and comfort; and I have not
sufficient hands to cultivate the land which has been cleared by the
fire of last autumn. If not cultivated in a short time, it will be all
forest again
At present it is all raspberries, and very good ones too, are they not,
Mr. Emmerson
Yes, miss, most excellent
but you are aware that,
whenever you cut down trees here, and do not hoe the ground to sow it,
raspberry bushes grow up immediately
Indeed, I was not aware of it
Such is the case, nevertheless. After the raspberries, the seedling
hardwood trees spring up, and, as Mr. Campbell says, they soon grow into
a forest again
I do not think that you would have much trouble in getting emigrants to
come here, Mr. Campbell, but the difficulty will be in persuading them
to remain. Their object in coming out to this country is to obtain land
of their own, and become independent. Many of them have not the means to
go on, and, as a temporary resource, are compelled to act as laborers;
but the moment that they get sufficient to purchase for themselves, they
will leave you
That is very natural; but I have been thinking of obtaining a larger
grant than I have now, and I wish very much that I could make an
arrangement with some emigrants. The Colonel says that I might do so by
supplying them with seed, and taking corn in return as rent
That would not be a permanent arrangement
How
much land, do you propose applying for
Six hundred acres
Well, sir, I think it would meet the views of both parties if you were
to offer terms like the following -- that is, divide the land into lots of
one hundred acres each, and allow them to cultivate for you the fifty
acres that adjoin your own land, with the right of purchasing the other
fifty as their own property, as soon as they can. You will then obtain
three hundred acres of the most valuable land, in addition to your
present farm, and have fixed neighbors around you, even after they are
enabled to purchase the other fifty
I think that a very good arrangement, Mr. Emmerson, and I would gladly
consent to it
Well, sir, I shall have plenty of opportunities this summer of making
the proposal to the emigrants, and if I find any parties who seem likely
to prove advantageous as neighbors, I will let you know
And with such expectations I will apply for the additional grant
for to have neighbors in this solitude, I would almost
make them a present of the land
I suspect that in a few years you will have neighbors enough, without
resorting to such an expedient
but according to
your present proposal, they may be better selected, and you may make
terms which will prevent any nuisances
I have spoken frankly to you, Captain Sinclair
I have not
denied that you have an interest in my affections; but I must now
request you to let me know what are your future views
To do just what you wish me to do
I have no right to advise, and no wish to persuade. I have my own path
of duty pointed out to me, and from that I can not swerve
And what is that
It is that, under present circumstances, I must not think of leaving my
uncle and aunt. I have been bred up and educated by them; I have as an
orphan shared their prosperity; I have a deep debt of gratitude to pay,
and I can not consent to return to England to enjoy all the advantages
which your means will afford, while they remain in their present
isolated position. Hereafter circumstances may alter my opinion, but
such it is at present
But if I am willing to remain with you here to share your fortunes,
will not that satisfy you
No, certainly not; for that would be allowing you to do injustice to
yourself. I presume you do not mean to quit your profession
I had no such intention; but still, if I have to choose between you and
the service, I shall not hesitate
I trust you will not hesitate, but determine to adhere steadily to your
profession for the present, Captain Sinclair. It will not do for you to
give up your prospects and chance of advancement for even such a woman
as me
nor must you think of becoming a
backwoodsman for a pale-faced girl
Then what am I to do if, as you say, you will not leave your uncle and
aunt
Wait, Captain Sinclair; be satisfied that you have my affections, and
wait patiently till circumstances may occur which will enable me to
reward your affection without being guilty of ingratitude toward those
to whom I owe so much. On such terms I accept you willingly; but you
must do your duty to yourself, while I must discharge _my_ duty toward
my uncle and aunt
I believe you are right, Mary
only I do
not see any definite hope of our being united. Can you give me any
prospect to cheer me
We are both very young, Captain Sinclair
in a year or
two, my uncle and aunt may be less lonely and more comfortable than at
present. In a year or two the war may end, and you may honorably retire
upon half-pay; in fact, so many chances are there which are hidden from
us and come upon us so unexpectedly, that it is impossible to say what
may take place. And if, after waiting patiently for some time, none of
these chances do turn up, you have yet another in your favor
And what is that, Mary
That, perhaps, I may be tired of waiting myself
Upon that chance, then, I will live in hope
if you will only reward me when you consider that my faithful service
demands it, I will serve as long as Jacob did for Rachel
Do so, and you shall not be deceived at the end of your services, as he
was
but now let us return to the house
I am glad to find you alone, sir
for I have something
of importance to tell you of, and I do not like at present that any
body else should know any thing about it
What is it, Malachi
Why, sir, when I was out hunting yesterday, I went round to a spot
where I had left a couple of deer-hides last week, that I might bring
them home, and I found a letter stuck to them with a couple of thorns
A letter, Malachi
Yes, sir, an Indian letter. Here it is
Well
it may be a letter, but I confess it is all Greek
to me. I certainly do not see why you wish to keep it a secret. Tell
me
Well, sir, I could not read one of your letters half so well as I can
this; and it contains news of the greatest importance. It's the Indian
way of writing, and I know also whom it comes from. A good action is
never lost, they say, and I am glad to find that there is some
gratitude in an Indian
You make me very impatient, Malachi, to know what it means; tell me
from whom do you think the letter comes
Why, sir, do you see this mark here
Yes; it is a foot, is it not
Exactly, sir; now, do you know whom it comes from
I can't say I do
Do you remember two winters back our picking up the Indian woman, and
carrying her to the house, and your father curing her sprained ankle
Certainly; is it from her
Yes, sir; and you recollect she said that she belonged to the band
which followed the Angry Snake
I remember it very well; but now, Malachi, read me the letter at once,
for I am very impatient to know what she can have to say
I will, Mr. Alfred; now, sir, there is the sun more than half up, which
with them points out it is the setting and not the rising sun; the
setting sun therefore means to the westward
Very good, that is plain, I think
There are twelve wigwams, that is, twelve days' journey for a warrior,
which the Indians reckon at about fifteen miles a day. How much does
fifteen times twelve make, sir
One hundred and eighty, Malachi
Well, sir, then that is to say that it is one hundred and eighty miles
off, or thereabouts. Now, the first figure is a chief, for it has an
eagle's feather on the head of it, and the snake before it is his
_totem_, 'the Angry Snake,' and the other six are the number of the
band; and you observe, that the chief and the first figure of the six
have a gun in their hands, which is to inform us that they have only two
rifles among them
Very true; but what is that little figure following the chief with his
arms behind him
There is the whole mystery of the letter, sir, without which it were
worth nothing. You perceive that little figure has a pair of snow-shoes
over it
Yes, I do
Well, that little figure is your brother Percival, whom we supposed to
be dead
Merciful heavens! is it possible
then he is
alive
There is no doubt of it, sir
and now I will put the
whole letter together. Your brother Percival has been carried off by the
Angry Snake and his band, and has been taken to some place one hundred
and eighty miles to the westward, and this information comes from the
Indian woman who belongs to the band, and whose life was preserved by
your kindness. I don't think, Mr. Alfred, that any white person could
have written a letter more plain and more to the purpose
I agree with you, Malachi; but the news has so overpowered me, I am so
agitated with joy and anxiety of mind, that I hardly know what to say.
Percival alive! we'll have him, if we have to go one thousand miles and
beat two thousand Indians. Oh, how happy it will make my mother! But
what are we to do, Malachi? tell me, I beseech you
We must do nothing, sir
Nothing, Malachi
No, sir; nothing at present, at all events. We have the information
that the boy is alive, at least it is presumed so; but of course the
Indians do not know that we have received such information; if they did,
the woman would be killed immediately. Now, sir, the first question we
must ask ourselves is, why they have carried off the boy; for it would
be no use carrying off a little boy in that manner without some object
It is the very question that _I_ was going to put to you, Malachi
Then, sir, I'll answer it to the best of my knowledge and belief. It is
this: the Angry Snake came to the settlement, and saw our stores of
powder and shot, and every thing else. He would have attacked us last
winter if he had found an opportunity and a chance of success. One of
his band was killed, which taught him that we were on the watch, and he
failed in that attempt: he managed, however, to pick up the boy when he
was lagging behind us, at the time you were wounded by the painter, and
carried him off, and he intends to drive a bargain for his being
restored to us. That is my conviction
I have no doubt but that you are right, Malachi
Well, we must make a virtue of necessity, and give him what he
asks
Not so, sir; if we did, it would encourage him to steal again
What must we do then
Punish him, if we can; at all events, we must wait at present, and do
nothing. Depend upon it we shall have some communication made to us
through him that the boy is in their possession, and will be restored
upon certain conditions -- probably this spring. It will then be time to
consider what is to be done
I believe you are right, Malachi
I hope to circumvent him yet, sir
but we shall
see
Well; but, Malachi, are we to let this be known to any body, or keep it
a secret
Well, sir, I've thought of that; we must only let Martin and Strawberry
into the secret; and I would tell them, because they are almost Indians,
as it were; they may have some one coming to them, and there's no fear
of their telling. Martin knows better, and as for the Strawberry, she is
as safe as if she didn't know it
I believe you are right; and still what delight it would give my father
and mother
Yes, sir, and all the family too, I have no doubt, for the first hour
or two after you had told them; but what pain it would give them for
months afterward. 'Hope deferred maketh the heart sick,' as my father
used to read out of the Bible, and that's the truth, sir. Only consider
how your father, and particularly your mother, would fret and pine
during the whole time, and what a state of anxiety they would be in;
they would not eat or sleep. No, no, sir; it would be a cruelty to tell
them, and it must not be. Nothing can be done till the spring, at all
events, and we must wait till the messenger comes to us
You are right, Malachi; then do as you say, make the communication to
Martin and his wife,-- and I will keep the secret as faithfully as they
will
It's a great point our knowing whereabouts the boy is
for if it is necessary to make a party to go for him, we know
what direction to go in. And it is also a great point to know the
strength of the enemy, as now we shall know what force we must take with
us in case it is necessary to recover the lad by force or stratagem. All
this we gained from the letter, and shall not learn from any messenger
sent to us by the Angry Snake, whose head I hope to bruise before I've
done with him
If I meet him, one of us shall fall
No doubt, sir, no doubt
but if we can retake the
boy by other means, so much the better. A man, bad or good, has but one
life and God gave it to him. It is not for his fellow-creatures to take
it away unless from necessity. I hope to have the boy without shedding
of blood
I am willing to have him back upon any terms, Malachi; and, as you say,
if we can do it without shedding of blood, all the better; but have him
I will, if I have to kill a hundred Indians
That's right, sir; that's right; only let it be the last resort;
recollect the Indian seeks the powder and ball, not the life of the boy;
and recollect if we had not been so careless as to tempt him with the
sight of what he values so much, he never would have annoyed us thus
That is true; well then, Malachi, it shall be as you propose in every
thing
Very easily, ma'am: we tap the trees
Yes, so you said before; but how do you do it? Explain the whole affair
to me
Why, ma'am, we pick out the maple trees which are about a foot wide at
the bottom of the trunk, as they yield most sugar. We then bore a hole
in the trunk of the tree, about two feet above the ground, and into that
hole we put a hollow reed, just the same as you would put a spigot in a
cask. The liquor runs out into one of these trays that we have been
digging out
Well, and then what do you do
We collect all the liquor every morning till we have enough to fill the
coppers, and then we boil it down
What coppers will you use, then
There are two large coppers in the store-room, not yet put up, which
will answer our purpose very well, ma'am. They hold about a hogshead
each. We shall take them into the woods with us, and pour the liquor
into them, and boil them down as soon as they are ready. You must come
and see us on the boiling-day, and we can have a frolic in the woods
With all my heart
How much liquor do you get
from one tree
A matter of two or three gallons
sometimes more and
sometimes less. After we have tapped the trees and set our trays, we
shall have nothing more to do for a fortnight. The Strawberry can attend
to them all, and will let us know when she is ready
Do you tap the trees every year
Yes, ma'am, and a good tree will bear it for fifteen or twenty years;
but it kills them at last
So I should suppose, for you take away so much of the sap of the tree
Exactly, ma'am; but there's no want of sugar-maples in these woods
You promised us some honey, Malachi
but we have not seen
it yet. Can you get us some
We had no time to get it last autumn, miss, but we will try this autumn
what we can do. When John and I are out in the woods, we shall very
probably find a honey-tree, without going very far. I did intend to have
looked out for some, if you had not mentioned it
I know one
I marked it a fortnight ago, but I quite
forgot all about it. Since the mill has been in hand, I have had little
time for any thing else. The fact is, we have all plenty to do just
now
That we certainly have
I wish I could see
the end of my work in the barn; I doubt if I shall be able to get out
with my rifle this winter
No, sir, you must leave the woods to John and me
Never mind, you shan't want for venison. Do you require the sledge
to-morrow, Mr. Alfred
I can do without it for a day. What do you want it for
To bring all the honey home
No, miss, to take the coppers out into the woods
that they may be ready for the liquor. As soon as we have tapped the
trees, we will look for the honey
Did you send your skins down to Montreal by the _bateaux_
Yes, father
Mr. Emmerson took charge of them, and
promised to deliver them to the agent; but we have not so many this year
as we had last. John has the largest package of all of us
Yes, he beats me this year
he always contrives to get
the first shot. I knew that I should make a hunter of the boy. He might
go out by himself now, and do just as well as I do
What are the dogs after
Just what the Strawberry wants, and told me to get for her
we'll dig him out to-morrow
What is it, Strawberry
I don't know the English name
A porcupine you mean
the animal those quills come from
Yes
Is there a porcupine there, Malachi
Yes, ma'am, that is certain; the dogs know that well enough, or they
would not make such a noise. If you like, we will go for the shovels and
dig him out
Do, pray; I should like to see him caught
it shall be our
evening's amusement
There is a bear at the cooler;
look at him
Do not be afraid, ma'am
the animal is only after the
sugar. He likes sugar just as well as honey
I don't doubt but he's the same beast that you saw at the honeycomb the
other day
Let us stay where we are, and watch him. We
may lose a few pounds of sugar, but I expect he will make you laugh
I really see nothing laughable in such a terrific brute
You are quite safe, ma'am
Malachi and Mr. John have
both their rifles
Well, then, I will trust to them
but I should
prefer being at home, nevertheless. What a great brute it is
Yes, ma'am; it is a very large animal, that's certain; but they are not
very fat at this time of the year. See how he's smelling at the liquor,
now he's licking the top of it with his tongue. He won't be satisfied
with that, now that he has once tasted it. I told you so
I said so
he has found it hotter than
he expected
He'll try it again
Yes, that he will
John, be all ready with your
rifle, for the brute has seen us
Why, he won't come this way, will he
Yes, ma'am, that he most likely will when he is angry; but you need not
fear
But I'm afraid, Malachi
Then perhaps you had better go about fifty yards back with Mr.
Campbell, where you will see the whole without danger. There he goes to
it again; I knew he would
You need have no fear, ma'am
the rifles won't miss
their mark, and if they did, I have the dogs to let loose upon him; and
I think Oscar, with the help of the others, would master him.
Down -- silence, Oscar -- down, dogs, down. Look at the Strawberry, ma'am,
she's not afraid, she's laughing like a silver bell
Now, John
get your bead well on him, right between his
eyes
A good shot, and well put in
Let
the dogs loose, Martin, that they may worry the carcass; it will do them
good
Well, ma'am, isn't John a cool shot
Could the oldest
hunter have done better
My dear John, you quite frightened me
why did
you allow the beast to come so near to you
Because I wanted to kill him dead, and not wound him
To be sure
to wound a bear is worse than leaving
him alone
Well, Malachi, you certainly have made a hunter of John
I could not have supposed such courage and presence of mind
in one so young
The skin belongs to John, that of course
Is the bear good eating now
Not very, ma'am
for he has consumed all his fat
during the winter; but we will cut off the legs for hams, and when they
are salted and smoked with the other meat, you will acknowledge that a
bear's ham is, at all events, a dish that any one may say is good. Come,
John, where's your knife? Martin, give us a hand here, while Mr.
Campbell and the ladies go home
Is my son from the West
The Young Otter is from the West
The old men
have told him of the Gray Badger, who has lived the life of a snake, and
who has hunted with the fathers of those who are now old. Does my father
live with the white man
He lives with the white man
he has no Indian blood
in his veins
Has the white man many in his lodge
Yes; many young men and many rifles
Does not the cold kill the white man
No; the white man can bear the winter's ice as well as an Indian. He
hunts as well, and brings home venison
Are all who came here with him now in the white man's lodge
No, not all; one white child slept in the snow, and is in the land of
spirits
A little bird sang in my ear, and it said, The white man's child is not
dead; it wandered about in the woods and was lost, and the Indian found
him, and took him to his wigwam in the far west
Did not the little bird lie to the Young Otter
No; the little bird sang what was true
The white
boy is alive and in the lodge of the Indian
There are many white men in the country who have children
and children are often lost. The little bird may have sung of
the child of some other white man
The white boy had a rifle in his hand and snow-shoes on his feet
So have all they who go out to hunt in the winter's snow
But the white boy was found near to the white man's lodge
Then why was not the boy taken back to the white man by the Indians who
found him
They were going to their own wigwams and could not turn aside; besides,
they feared to come near to the white man's lodge after the sun was
down; as my father says he has many young men and many rifles
But the white man does not raise his rifle against the Indian, whether
he comes by day or by night
At night he kills the
prowling wolf when he comes near to the lodge
Is the Young Otter of a near tribe
The lodges of our tribe are twelve days' journey to the westward
The chief of the Young Otter's band is a great warrior
He is
Yes
The 'Angry Snake' is a great warrior. Did he
send the Young Otter to me to tell me that the white boy was alive and
in his wigwam
It is many moons since the Angry Snake has taken care of the white boy,
and has fed him with venison; many moons that he has hunted for him to
give him food; and the white boy loves the Angry Snake as a father, and
the Angry Snake loves the boy as his son. He will adopt him, and the
white boy will be the chief of the tribe. He will forget the white men,
and become red as an Indian
The boy is forgotten by the white man, who has long numbered him with
the dead
The white man has no memory
to forget so soon;
but it is not so. He would make many presents to him who would bring
back the boy
And what presents could he make
the white man is
poor, and hunts with his young men as the Indian does. What has the
white man to give that the Indian covets? He has no whisky
The white man has powder, and lead, and rifles
more than he can use, locked up in his storehouse
And will the Angry Snake bring back the white boy if the white man
gives him powder, and lead, and rifles
He will make a long journey, and bring the white boy with him
but first let the white man say what presents he will
give
He shall be spoken to
and his answer shall be
brought, but the Young Otter must not go to the white man's lodge. A
red-skin is not safe from the rifles of the young men. When the moon is
at the full I will meet the Young Otter after the sun is down, at the
eastern side of the long prairie. Is it good
Good
The great question is, whether it would not be better to accede to the
terms of this scoundrel of an Indian chief
What are a few pounds of powder and a rifle or two compared with the
happiness which will be produced by the return of Percival to his
parents, who have so long lamented him as dead
It's not that, sir
I know that Mr. Campbell would
give his whole store-room to regain his boy, but we must consider what
will be the consequence if he does so. One thing is certain, that the
Angry Snake will not be satisfied with a trifling present; he will ask
many rifles, perhaps more than we have at the farm, and powder and shot
in proportion; for he has mixed much with white people, especially when
the French were here, and he knows how little we value such things, and
how much we love our children. But, sir, in the first place, you supply
him and his band with arms to use against us at any other time, and
really make them formidable; and in the next place, you encourage him to
make some other attempt to obtain similar presents -- for he will not be
idle. Recollect, sir, that we have in all probability killed one of
their band, when he came to reconnoiter the house in the skin of a wolf,
and that will never be forgotten, but revenged as soon as it can be.
Now, sir, if we give him arms and ammunition, we shall put the means of
revenge in his hands, and I should not be surprised to find us one day
attacked by him and his band, and it may be, overpowered by means of
these rifles which you propose to give him
There is much truth and much good sense in what you say,
Malachi -- indeed, I think it almost at once decides the point, and that
we must not consent to his terms; but then what must we do to recover
the boy
That is the question which puzzles me
for I
perfectly agree with Malachi, that we must not give him arms and
ammunition, and I doubt if he would accept of any thing else
No, sir, that he will not, depend upon it
I think
there is but one way that will give us a chance
What, then, is your idea, Malachi
The Angry Snake with his band were tracking us, and had we not been too
strong, would have attacked and murdered us all, that is clear. Not
daring to do that, he has stolen Percival, and detains him, to return
him at his own price. Now, sir, the Young Otter has come to us, and
offers to come again. We have given him no pledge of safe conduct, and,
therefore, when he comes again, we must have an ambush ready for him,
and make him prisoner; but then you see, sir, we must have the
assistance of the Colonel, for he must be confined at the fort; we could
not well keep him at the farm. In the first place, it would be
impossible then to withhold the secret from Mr. and Mrs. Campbell; and,
in the next, we should have to be on the look-out for an attack every
night for his rescue; but if the Colonel was to know the whole
circumstances, and would assist us, we might capture the Indian lad and
hold him as a hostage for Master Percival, till we could make some terms
with the Angry Snake
I like your idea very much, Malachi
and
if, Alfred, you agree with me, I will acquaint the Colonel with the
whole of what has passed when I return to-night, and see if he will
consent to our taking such a step. When are you to meet the Indian,
Malachi
In three days, that is on Saturday; it will be the full of the moon,
and then I meet him at night, at the end of the prairie nearest to the
fort, so that there will be no difficulty in doing all we propose
without Mr. and Mrs. Campbell being aware of any thing that has taken
place
I think we can not do better than you have proposed
Be it so, then
I will be here again
to-morrow -- no, not to-morrow, but the day after will be better, and then
I will give you the reply of the Colonel, and make such arrangements as
may be necessary
That's all right, sir
and now all we have to do is
to keep our own secret; so, perhaps, Captain Sinclair, you had better go
back to the young ladies, for Miss Mary may imagine that it must be
something of very great importance which can have detained you so long
from her presence
There's good sense in that observation, Malachi
Come, Sinclair
Now, do we want any assistance from the fort? Surely not to capture an
Indian lad; at least, so I said to the Colonel
No, sir, we want no assistance, as you say. I am his match, myself, if
that were all; but it is not strength which is required. He is as little
and supple as an eel, and as difficult to hold, that I am certain of. If
we were to use our rifles, there would be no difficulty, but to hold him
would give some trouble to two of us, and if once he breaks loose, he
will be too fleet for any of us
Well, then, Malachi, how shall we proceed
Why, sir, I must meet him, and you and Mr. Alfred and Martin must be
hid at a distance, and gradually steal near to us. Martin shall have his
deer thongs all ready, and when you pounce upon him, he must bind him at
once. Martin is used to them and knows how to manage it
Well, if you think that we three can not manage him, let us have
Martin
It isn't strength, sir
but he will slip through
your fingers, if not well tied in half a minute. Now, we will just walk
down to where I intend to meet him, and survey the place, and then I'll
show you where you must be, for we must not be seen together in that
direction to-morrow, for he may be lurking about, and have some
suspicion
Has my father talked to the white man
The white man grieves for the loss of his boy, and his squaw weeps
The Angry Snake must bring the boy to the lodge of the
white man, and receive presents
Will the white man be generous
He has powder, and lead, and rifles, and tobacco; will such presents
please the Angry Snake
The Angry Snake had a dream
and he told me his
dream. He dreamed that the white boy was put into his mother's arms, who
wept for joy, and the white man opened his store, and gave to the Angry
Snake ten rifles, and two kegs of powder, and as much lead as four men
could carry away
'Twas a good dream
and it will come true when the
white boy comes back to his mother
The Angry Snake had another dream. He dreamed that the white man
received his child, and pushed the Angry Snake out from the door of his
lodge
That was bad
Look at me, my son; say, did you ever
hear that the Gray Badger said a lie
You were right, Malachi
how he contrived to
twist himself out of our grasp I can not imagine; but he certainly would
have been off, probably have broken our heads before he went
I know the nature of these Indians, sir
they're
never safe, even when tied, if the thong does not cut into the bone; but
you have him now, sir, fast enough, and the sooner you get to the fort
the better. You have your rifles, in the bush
Yes
you'll find them behind the large oak tree
I'll fetch them; not that I think there's much danger of a rescue
We have not far to take him
for, as I wished
you and Alfred not to be so long away as to induce questions to be
asked, I have a file of men and a corporal about half a mile off,
concealed in the bush. But Malachi, it is as well to let the Indian know
that he is only detained as a hostage, and will be restored as soon as
the boy is sent back
Tell him that there are several Indian women about the fort, who will
take any message he may send to the Angry Snake
Be off as fast as you can
for depend upon it the Angry
Snake was to meet him after his talk with me; I see it by his wandering
eye, and his looking round for assistance. I will go with you, and
return with Alfred and Martin, for I have no rifle
You can take mine, Malachi, as soon as we come up to the soldiers
Yes, I was sure of it
It was well that I did not go
back without you. After all, in the woods, a man's no man without his
rifle
Well, Malachi
what do you
imagine will be the steps now taken by the Angry Snake
It's hard to say, sir
for he well deserves the name
of a snake, if, as the Scripture says, it's the subtlest thing on earth:
he will try all he can, you may be sure; and if it were not that he is
afraid of us, he would attack us immediately; but that I have no idea
that he will venture upon
No, for your letter says, that he has only two rifles in his band,
which are not enough to give him any chance of success
Very true, sir. I hear that the _bateaux_ are coming from the fort for
the plank and flour
Yes, to-morrow, if there is not so much wind as there is to-day; it
blows very fresh. Where is John
I left him with the Strawberry, sir; they were busy with the sugar
By the by, how much have you got, Malachi
About three or four hundred pounds, sir, as near as I can reckon; quite
as much as madam will require
Yes, I should think so; now we shall have preserves of all sorts and
the fruit for nothing; the wild raspberries are nearly ripe, and so are
the cherries; my cousins want John to help to gather them
Well, sir, I dare say he will do so, although I believe that he would
rather do any thing else. He said he was going to fish this morning
The water is too rough, and he will not be able to manage the punt by
himself
Then that's the very reason why he'll go out
he
don't like easy jobs like picking raspberries. Is it true, Mr. Alfred,
that we are to have some more settlers come here
Yes, I believe so; my father is very anxious to have them; he thinks it
will be a great security, and he has offered very advantageous terms;
you won't much like that, Malachi
Well, sir, I dare say you may think so, but it is not the case; if any
one had told me, two years ago, that I could have remained here, I would
have said it was impossible, but we are all creatures of habit. I had
been so used to my own company for so long a time, that when I first saw
you I couldn't bear the sight of you; no, not even that of your pretty
cousins, Miss Mary and Emma, although, Heaven knows, they might tame a
savage; but now, sir, I feel quite changed; I have first borne with
company, because I fancied the boy, and then I felt no dislike to it,
and now I like it. I believe that in my old age I am coming back to my
feelings as a boy, and I think very often of my father's farm, and the
little village that was close to it; and then I often fancy that I
should like to see a village rise up here, and a church stand up there
upon the mount; I think I should like to live on till I saw a church
built and God worshiped as He ought to be
This is indeed a change, Malachi; well, I hope you will see a church on
the mount, and live many years afterward to be present at the weddings
and christenings
As it pleases God, sir. There's one thing, Mr. Alfred, that has given
me great content, and more than any thing, perhaps, reconciled me to my
new way of living; and that is, that the Strawberry, by the blessing of
God and the labor of your mother and cousins, has become a good
Christian; you don't know how pleased I am at that
She's an excellent little creature, Malachi; every one is fond of her,
and I believe Martin is very strongly attached to her
Yes, sir, she's a good wife, for she never uses her tongue, and obeys
her husband in all things. I think Martin has now become quite steady,
and you might send him to Montreal, or any where else, without fear of
his getting into the prison for making a disturbance.-- I see that a bear
has been over into the maize-field last night
What! did he climb the snake-fence
Yes, sir, they climb any thing; but I have got his tracks, and this
night I think that I shall get hold of him, for I shall lay a trap for
him
I can not find John
Strawberry says that he left her some time
back, and went to fish; have you seen him pass by the river's side
No
but, Malachi, you said that he was going to fish
in the punt, did you not
Yes, sir
Do you see the punt on the beach, Emma
No, I do not
but it may be behind the point
Nor can I; I hope he has not been carried away by the wind, for it
blows very hard; I'll run down, and see if he is there
I really am afraid that John is
adrift. I think I see the boat, but am not sure. Emma, go in quietly and
bring out my telescope, which is over my bed-place. Do not let them see
you, or they will be asking questions, and your aunt may be alarmed
Now, what is to be done
I must take a horse, and ride
off to the fort, for if they do not see him before he passes, he may not
be picked up
If he once gets into the rapids, sir
he will be in
great danger; for he may be borne down upon one of the rocks, and upset
in a minute
Yes; but he is some way from them yet
Very true, sir; but with this strong wind right down to them, and
helping the current, he will soon be there. There is no time to be
lost
No; but I'll go in to dinner, and as soon as I have taken a mouthful,
just to avoid creating any alarm, I will slip out, and ride to the fort
as fast as I can
Just so; you will be there in good time, for he is now three miles
above the fort; indeed, he can not well pass it without their seeing
him
Yes, he can, now that the water is so rough
recollect that they are soldiers in the fort, and not sailors, who are
accustomed to look on the water. A piece of drift timber and a punt is
much the same to their eyes. Come, let us in to dinner
Yes, sir; I'll follow you
but, before I come in
I'll catch the horse and saddle him for you. You can tell Miss Emma to
hold her tongue about it
Where's John
he promised me some lake fish for
dinner, and has never brought them in; so you will not have such good
fare as I expected
And where's Malachi
I dare say he and John are out together somewhere
Well, he will lose his dinner
That's what I can not afford to do, mother
I am very
hungry, and I have not more than five minutes to spare, for the seed
must be put in to-night
I thought Malachi was with you, Alfred
So he was, father
but he left me. Now, mother,
please to give me my dinner
Yes, sir, that will be best, and then they can ask no questions. Be
quick, sir, for I am not at all easy about the boy
Some accident has happened to John
Why should you say so, my dear
I'm sure of it
Alfred is
riding away to the fort. Malachi is standing by himself outside. What
can it be
It will be better to tell her at once
Why should they conceal it, if there was no danger, Campbell
Yes; there must be danger now the water is so rough. My
child, am I to lose you as well as my poor Percival
All's well, depend upon it, my dear
Alfred would
not wave his hat if there was any disaster
I must have it from his own mouth
Safe
Safe, quite safe
Thank Heaven
Indeed, Captain Sinclair, we are under great obligations to you. Had
you not been so active, the boy might have been lost
Accept my best thanks
And mine
John, you have frightened me very much
how could
you be so imprudent as to go on the lake in such a high wind? See, what
a narrow escape you have had
I should have been at Montreal to-morrow morning
No, never; you would have been upset in the rapids long before you
could get to Montreal
Well, mother, I can swim
You naughty boy, nothing will make you afraid
Well, ma'am, it's a good fault, that of having confidence in yourself,
so don't check it too much
It saves many a man who
would otherwise be lost
That's very true, Malachi
so, now that he is safe
back, we won't scold John any more. He will know better than to go out
in such rough weather again
To be sure I shall
I don't _want_ to go down the rapids
Well, I'm glad to hear you say that
What is the matter
We heard the report of a gun close to the house just now, and we
thought something might have happened
Oh
is that all? Then you may all go to bed
again. It's my trap for the bear -- nothing more. I forgot to tell you
last night
Well, as we are up, we may as well go and see
the day
is breaking
Well, sir, I am ready
Yes, sir, I've got him
But what was the trap
You see, sir, I tracked the brute over the rails by his broad
foot-mark, and as I knew he would come the same way, I fixed the rifle
with a wire to the trigger, so that, as he climbed up, he must touch the
wire with his fore-paws, and the muzzle, pointed a little downward,
would then about reach his heart when the gun went off. You see, sir, it
has happened just as I wished it, and there's another good skin for
Montreal
It is a she-bear
and she has cubs;
they can't be far off
That's true
so now you had better all go back
again. Martin and I will hide, and I'll answer for it, in an hour, we
will bring the cubs home with us
What a charming pet
I will rear it for myself
And I'll have the other
The Oxley hounds had a splendid
run on Friday last
We regret to say that Mr. Douglas Campbell,
of Wexton Hall, received a heavy fall from his horse, in clearing a wide
brook. He is, however, we understand, doing well
I assure you, Mr. Campbell, I have great pleasure
in giving you every assistance, and I render it the more readily as I
am authorized by the Governor so to do. Your arrival and settling here
has proved very advantageous; for your supplying the fort has saved the
government a great deal of money, at the same time that it has been
profitable to you, and enabled you to get rid of your crops without
sending them down so far as Montreal; which would have been as serious
an expense to you, as getting the provisions from Montreal has proved to
us. You may keep the fatigue party of soldiers upon the same terms as
before, as long as they may prove useful to you, provided they return
to the fort by the coming of winter
Then I will, if you please, retain them for getting in the harvest; we
have so much to do that I shall be most happy to pay for their
assistance
Angry Snake
Yes, Strawberry, that is the case, I have no doubt
but not a word at present; I knew he would be at something, but I did
not think that he dared do that either; however, we shall see. Go back
to the house, and tell master and misses that I have gone down to the
Cedar Swamp, and will return as soon as possible, and do you follow me
as fast as you can, for your eyes are younger than mine, and I shall
want the use of them: tell them not to send any body else, it will do
harm instead of good, for they will trample the ground, and we may lose
the track
Now, Strawberry, we must find out how many of them there were, and
which way they have gone
Here
I see, child; I see that and two more, but we can not tell much as yet;
let us follow up the trail till we come to some spot where we may read
the print better. That's her foot
The sole of a shoe cuts the grass sharper
than a moccasin. We have no easy task just now, and if the others come,
they may prevent us from finding the track altogether
Here, again
Yes; you're right, child
Let us once follow it to
the bottom of this hill, and then we shall do better
What is it, Malachi
She has been carried off, sir, I've no doubt
by
the Snake. The rascal is determined to have the vantage of us. We have
one prisoner, and he has made two
Well,
but now, before we act, let us consult what is best to be done
Well, sir
the best to do now, at this moment, is
for the Strawberry and me to follow the trail, and try if we can not
obtain more information, and when we have got all we can, we must form a
party, and go in pursuit. Let us only get fairly on the trail, and we
will not lose it, especially if the Strawberry is with us, for she has a
better eye than any Indian I ever knew, be it man or woman
Well, that is all right, Malachi; but what shall I do now while you are
following up the trail
Well, sir, you must prepare the party, and get them all ready for a
start; for we must be off in three hours, if possible
Captain Sinclair had better come with us. He will be quite frantic if
he does not
Well, then, perhaps he had, sir
but I'd
rather he were away. He won't be so cool and calm as he ought to be
Never fear; but I must now go to my father and mother, and tell the
whole of the circumstances which have occurred. I must tell them that
Percival is alive
Why so, sir
It will only fret them more. It's quite
sufficient that they should have to lament Miss Percival being carried
off, without their knowing what fresh cause for anxiety there is about
the boy. I would only say that Miss Mary has been carried off by
somebody, and leave out all about our having captured the Young Otter,
and why we took him
Well, perhaps it will be better
then I'll leave Martin
here, and ride off to the fort to Captain Sinclair. Shall I ask for any
soldiers
Yes, sir; if there are any good backwoodsmen among them, we may find a
couple of them of service. We ought to have a larger force than the
Indian; and the latter, if you recollect, is stated at six with the
chief. Now, there are you, Martin, and I, that's three; Captain Sinclair
and two soldiers would be six; young Graves and Meredith make eight.
That's sufficient, sir; more than sufficient does harm. Mr. Henry must
stay, and so must Mr. John, because he will not be home before we are
away. I'm sorry for that, as I should have liked him to be with me
It can't be helped
Well then, Martin and I will go
back at once; in two hours I will return with Captain Sinclair, if I
possibly can
As quick as you please, sir, and Martin will get every thing ready for
the journey, for we must not fire our rifles, if we can help it
Here was the nest of the whole gang
Here is her foot again
Yes, yes; it's clear enough that two of them have carried her off and
brought her here to where the others were waiting for them, and from
here the whole party have made their start. Now we have the new trail to
find, and that they have taken every care to prevent us, I do not
doubt
The moccasin of a squaw
Right, then she is with them, so much the better
for, as she sent me that letter, she may serve us still, if she
chooses
But what cause could he have
Merely to get powder and shot as a reward for bringing her back again
so there is not any thing to fear as to her being
ill-treated; but if he has any other reason for what he has done, it is
well known that an Indian always respects a female. But here comes my
horse
But what are you going to do, Alfred
Ride to the fort for assistance, bring Captain Sinclair, and go in
pursuit as fast as we can, mother. Martin will get all ready by my
return, Malachi is following up the trail with Strawberry. But there is
no time to be lost; I shall soon be back
Martin, supposing that you and Malachi are correct in your supposition,
where do you think that they will take my poor niece
Right away to their own wigwams, sir
Have you any idea how far that may be
Yes, ma'am, I have heard that the Angry Snake's quarters are about
twelve days' journey from this
Twelve days' journey! how far is a journey
As far as a stout man can walk in a day, ma'am
And will my niece have to walk all the way
Why, yes, ma'am; I don't see how it can be otherwise; I don't know of
the Indians having any horses, although they may have
But she can not walk as far as a man
No, ma'am, and so I suppose they will be twenty days going instead of
twelve
Will they ill-treat or ill-use her, Martin
No, ma'am, I shouldn't think they would, although they will make her
walk, and will tie her at night when they stop
Poor Mary: what will she suffer
and if you do come
up with them, Martin, will they give her up to you
We shan't ask their leave, miss
we shall take her
But not without bloodshed, Martin
No, ma'am, certainly not without bloodshed, for either the Indians must
destroy us or we them; if we conquer, not an Indian will be left alive;
and if they master us, it will be about the same thing, I suppose
Heaven protect us, but this is dreadful; I was prepared for
difficulties and annoyances when I came out here
but not for such trials as these
Never fear but we'll bring her back, ma'am
Malachi is a
better Indian than them all, and he'll circumvent them
How do you mean
I mean, ma'am, that we will, if possible, fall upon them unawares, and
then we'll have the advantage, for half of them will be killed before
they know that they are attacked; we'll fight them Indian fashion,
ma'am
Here they come
and they have lost no time, that's
certain
Poor Captain Sinclair? what must be his feelings! I pity him
He must take it coolly, nevertheless
or he may do
more harm than good
They have turned back again
see, the track of the moccasins is both ways
That's true
now then,
Strawberry, to find out where they have left the old trail again. I told
you, sir
that the Strawberry would be
useful; she has the eye of a falcon
That's true, let us see if it happens again
Then all's right
I said that she could help us again
if she chose, and so she has. The Indian woman who wrote the letter
is our
friend still. See, sir, she has, wherever she has dared to do it without
being seen by the Indians, broken down a small twig as a guide to us.
Now, if she has continued to do this, we shall not have much trouble
Here they must have taken to the water
but what means
have they had to cross
That we must discover, somehow or another, sir
or
else we shall not find the trail again; perhaps, however, we shall see
to-morrow morning; it is too dark now to attempt to find out, and we may
do more harm than good by tracking down the bank. We must bring to for
the night. There is a high rock there on the beach further up, we had
better go there, as we can light a fire behind the rock without being
discovered by it, supposing the Indians are on the opposite shore; and
to-night we must cook all our provisions if we possibly can, for, depend
upon it, we have traveled faster to-day than they can have done with the
young lady, and if we can once get well on the trail again, we shall
soon be up with them
God grant that we may
the idea of what
poor Mary must suffer, almost drives me mad
Yes, sir, she will be terribly foot-sore, I have no doubt
but the Indians will not treat her ill, depend upon it
What is it
There's somebody coming this way -- he is behind that large tree
I see his head now, but it is too dark to make out who it may
be
It is John
John! impossible
It is
I know well that whistle. I go to fetch
him. I have no fear
Well, John, how did you come here
Followed trail
But how -- when did you leave home
Yesterday
when I came back
But do your father and mother know that you come
I met old Graves, and told him
Have you any meat
The boy has had nothing since he left, I'll answer for it
have you,
John
No
Let him eat
it's long for a lad to be two days without
food, for I'll answer he left as soon as he heard we were gone, and did
not wait for yesterday's supper. Indeed he must have done so, for he
must have followed the trail some time yesterday to be up with us
to-night, so let him eat in quiet
What surprises me, Malachi, is how he could have found his way to us
Well, sir, I do confess that I'm as much surprised almost as I am
pleased
It is really a great feat for a lad to
accomplish all by himself, and I am proud of him for having done it; but
from the first I saw what a capital woodsman he would make, and he has
not disappointed me
There are not many who would have been able to do it, that's certain
I wonder as much as you do, Mr. Alfred, how he could have
done it -- but he has the gift
But suppose he had not come up with us, how would he have lived in
these woods? It's a mercy that he has fallen in with us
You don't think that John would come into the woods without his rifle,
sir, do you
I did not perceive that he had it with him
but I certainly ought to have known John better
Yes, I thought so
They have had their canoe all ready,
and have crossed the water; now, we must walk quite round the lake to
discover the trail again, and that will give them half a day's start of
us
They have not crossed over in a straight line
that is evident; we must now try more to the northward
There is no doubt, sir, but that the Indians have discovered this woman
was marking the trail for us, and that they have tomahawked her for so
doing, and have left her for dead. I think myself that the wound,
although it is a very ugly one, is not dangerous, and so says the
Strawberry. However, to-morrow will decide the point; if she is not
sensible then, it will be of no use waiting, but we must go on as fast
as we can
My opinion is this
that we can do no better than
remain here at present, and wait till the woman is sufficiently
recovered to travel, and show us the direct road to the lodges. In two
or three days she will probably be well enough to go with us, and then
we will take the direct road, and be there before them. The knowledge
of the place and the paths will enable us to lay an ambush for them, and
to rescue the young lady without much danger to ourselves. They will
have no idea of falling in with us, for they of course imagine the woman
is dead; a tomahawk seldom fails
That's my brother Percival
Percival
is it possible
Yes
it is Percival, but don't speak so
loud
Well, they have turned him into a regular Indian
we
shall have to make a pale face of him again
A capital shot
the boy has learned something
at all events. You could not do that, John
No
but they don't trust him with a rifle
I think we have the whole force now
Yes, I think so too
I wish Malachi would
come back, for I do not think he will find out more than we know
ourselves
They are going out to hunt, the old and the young Indian and
Percival -- they have all their bows and arrows
The boy is right
Well, I consider this to decide the
question. We can now capture the men without the women knowing any thing
about it. They will not expect them home till the evening, and even if
they do not come, they will not be surprised or alarmed; so now we had
better let them go some way, and then follow them. If we secure them,
we can then decide what to do about the women
The Old Raven (referring
to the old Indian) is very cunning; you must be careful
The Indian woman says that the Old Raven is suspicious; he is sure
that some one is in the woods near him, and she thinks that she had
better go to him
Let her go
Let me try him, sir
I will speak to him in the Indian
tongue, he has perhaps forgotten his own. It's wonderful how soon we
return to a state of nature when we are once in the woods
What does he say, Malachi
He says he will sing his own death song; that he is the son of a
warrior, and he will die like a brave
Why, the boy is metamorphosed
is it possible
that so short a time could have produced this
Yes, sir
in young people a very short time will
change them thus, but it won't last long. If he were to meet again with
his mother at the settlement, he would by degrees forget his Indian life
and become reconciled; a woman has more effect than a man. Let the
Strawberry speak to him. You see, sir, he is bound, and considers
himself a captive, and let him loose we must not, until we have done our
work; after that, there will be no fear, and when he has been with us a
short time, he will come all right again
Percival, don't
you know me
Yes
I do; you are my brother Alfred
All's right now, sir
only he must be kept fast; but
the lad's coming to his senses again. The Strawberry will talk to him
again by and by
Percival, when we go home
again, your hands shall be untied, and you shall have a rifle of your
own instead of a bow and arrows; come, eat this
I think we had at all events better wait till to-morrow, sir; you see,
the women will not be at all surprised at the hunting party not
returning for even a day or two, as they know that they will not return
without game, and may not find it immediately; their absence, therefore,
will create no suspicion of our being here. I think we should return to
our former place of concealment, and watch their motions. There is no
saying when the party with Miss Percival may return, they may have
arrived while we have been away, or they may come to-morrow. It will be
better, therefore, not to encumber ourselves with more prisoners unless
it is necessary
They are now coming on
that is their signal
Yes, sir, they are coming
Pray, Captain Sinclair, be
quiet and sit down; you will ruin all our plans
Down, Sinclair, I beg
Oh, Alfred
she's so near
Yes, my good fellow, but if you wish her nearer, you must be prudent
True, very true
She could walk no further, sir
so
they are carrying her; I told you that they would not hurt her
Let me once see her get out of the litter, and I shall be satisfied
All's right so far, sir
they have left her to the
charge of the two women in a lodge by herself, and so there will be no
fear for her when we make the attack, which I think we must do very
shortly, for if it is quite dark, some of them may escape, and may
trouble us afterward
Let us do it immediately
No, not immediately, sir; we have yet an hour and a half daylight. We
will wait one hour, for I think that as they have nothing to eat, and
are pretty well tired from carrying Miss Percival, they will, in all
probability, go to sleep, as Indians always do. An hour hence will be
the best time for us to fall upon them
You are right, Malachi
Sinclair, you must curb your
impatience
I must, I believe
but it will be a tedious
hour for me. Let us pass it away in making our arrangements; we have but
six to deal with
And only two rifles
so we are pretty sure of
success
We must watch first
to see if they all continue in the
same lodge, for if they divide, we must arrange accordingly. Who will
remain with the prisoners
I won't
You must, John, if it be decided that you do
Better not, sir
for as soon as the boy hears the
crack of the rifles, he will leave his prisoners, and join us; that I'm
sure of. No, sir, the Strawberry can be left with the prisoners. I'll
give her my hunting-knife; that will be sufficient
Let us first lead Miss Percival away to a place of safety
Do you do it, then
there are plenty of us without you
He was a bad man, sir
but he will do no more mischief
Are you much hurt, Martin
No, sir, not much; the ball has passed right through and touched no
bone; so I am in luck. I'll go to the Strawberry, and get her to bind it
up
He is quite dead, sir
Poor fellow
Well, I'm not sorry that they
commenced the attack upon us; for I do not know whether I could have
used my rifle unless they had done so
They never expected quarter, sir
I suppose not. Now, what are we to do with the women? They can do no
harm
Not much, sir; but, at all events, we must put it out of their power.
We must take possession of all the weapons we can find in the lodges. We
have their two rifles; but we must collect all the bows and arrows,
tomahawks, and knives, and either destroy or keep possession of them.
John, will you look to that? Take Graves with you
Yes
It's all right, sir
it will leave the proof of our
victory, and be a caution to other Indians
But what will become of the women
They will join some other band, sir, and tell the story. It is better
that they should
And our prisoners, what shall we do with them
Release them; by and by, sir, we shall have nothing to fear from them;
but we will first take them two or three days' march into the woods, in
case they have alliance with any other band whom they might call to
their assistance
And the wounded Indians
Must be left to Providence, sir. We can not take them. We will leave
them provisions and water. The women will come back and find them; if
they are alive, they will look after them; if dead, bury them. But here
comes John, with some bears' skins which he has saved for Miss Mary;
that was thoughtful of the boy. As soon as the flames are down, we will
take up our quarters in the clearing, and set a watch for the night; and
to-morrow, with the help of God, we will commence our journey back. We
shall bring joy to your father and mother, and the sooner we do it the
better; for they must be any thing but comfortable at our long absence
Yes
what a state of suspense they must be in!
Truly, as the Bible saith, 'Hope deferred maketh the heart sick
My dear Alfred
I do not think it will be prudent to let
my aunt see Percival at once; we must prepare her a little for his
appearance. She has so long considered him as dead, that the shock may
be too great
You say true, my dear Mary. Then we will go forward with Captain
Sinclair and Malachi, and John. Let Percival be put in the middle of the
remainder of the party, who must follow afterward, and then be taken up
to Malachi's lodge. He can remain there with the Strawberry until we
come and fetch him
Father -- mother, here they are,-- here they come
Come, mother, let us go into the house, that you may compose yourself a
little
Let me support you. Take my arm
How grateful I am
God be praised for all
his mercies! I was fearful that I should have lost you, my dear Mary, as
well as my poor boy. He is lost forever -- but God's will be done
It is very strange, mother
but we heard, on our
journey, that the Indians had found a white boy in the woods
Alas! not mine
I have reason to believe that it was Percival, my dear mother, and have
hopes that he is yet alive
My dear Alfred, do not say so unless you have good cause; you little
know the yearnings of a mother's heart; the very suggestion of such a
hope has thrown me into a state of agitation and nervousness of which
you can form no conception. I have been reconciled to the Divine will;
let me not return to a state of anxiety and repining
Do you think, my dear mother, that I would raise such hopes if I had
not good reason to suppose that they would be realized? No, my dear
mother, I am not so cruel
Then you know that Percival is alive
Calm yourself, my dear mother, I do know -- I am certain that he is
alive, and that it was he who was found by the Indians; and I have great
hopes that we may recover him
God grant it! God grant it in his great mercy
my
heart is almost breaking with joy: may God sustain me! Oh, where is
he -- my dear Alfred -- where is he
I will explain it to you when you are more composed, my dear mother.
Emma, you have not said one word to me
I have been too much overjoyed to speak, Alfred
but no one welcomes your return more
sincerely than I do, and no one is more grateful to you for having
brought Mary back
Now, Alfred, I am calm
so let me hear at once
all you know
I see you are calm, my dear mother, and I therefore now tell you that
Percival is not far off
Alfred! he is here; I am sure he is
He is with Malachi and the Strawberry; in a minute I will bring him
How this has happened, and by what merciful interference he has been
preserved and restored to us
we have yet to learn; but one thing we do know, and
are sure of, that it is by the goodness of God alone. Let us return our
thanks while our hearts are yet warm with gratitude and love, and may
our thanksgiving be graciously received
And now, my dear Alfred
do pray tell us what has taken place,
and how you recovered Mary and this dear boy
And poor Martin, where is he, that I may thank him
He is at his own lodge, with the Strawberry, who is dressing his wound;
for we have not been able to do so for two or three days, and it has
become very painful
We owe him a large debt of gratitude
he has
suffered much on our account. And your poor man, Captain Sinclair, who
fell
Yes
he was one of our best men -- but it was the
will of Heaven. He lost his life in the recovery of my dear Mary, and I
shall not forget his wife and child, you may depend upon it
Now, Mary, let us have your narrative of what passed when you were in
company of the Indians, before your rescue
I was, as you know, gathering the cranberries in the Cedar Swamp, when
I was suddenly seized, and something was thrust against my mouth, so
that I had no time or power to cry out. My head was then wrapped up in
some folds of blanket, by which I was almost suffocated, and I was then
lifted up and borne away by two or three men. For a time I kept my
senses, but at last the suffocation was so great, that my head swam, and
I believe I fainted, for I do not recollect being put down; yet after a
time I found myself lying under a tree, and surrounded by five or six
Indians, who were squatted round me. I was not a little terrified, as
you may imagine. They neither moved nor spoke for some time; I
endeavored to rise, but a hand on my shoulder kept me down, and I did
not attempt a useless resistance. Soon afterward, an Indian woman
brought me some water, and I immediately recognized her as the one whom
we had succored when we found her in the woods. This gave me courage and
hope, though her countenance was immovable, and I could not perceive,
even by her eyes, that she attempted any recognition; but reflection
convinced me that, if she intended to help me, she was right in so
doing. After I had raised myself, and drunk some water, the Indians had
a talk in a low voice, I observed that they paid deference to one, and
from the description which my father and Alfred had given of the Angry
Snake, I felt sure that it was he. We remained about half an hour on
this spot, when they rose, and made signs to me that I was to come with
them. Of course I could do no otherwise, and we walked till night came
on, when I was, as you may imagine, not a little tired. They then left
me with the Indian woman, retiring a few yards from me. The woman made
signs that I was to sleep, and although I thought that was impossible, I
was so much fatigued that, after putting up my prayers to the Almighty,
I had not lain down many minutes before I was fast asleep.

"Before daylight, I was awakened by their voices, and the woman brought
me a handful of parched Indian corn; not quite so good a breakfast as I
had been accustomed to; but I was hungry, and I contrived to eat it. As
soon as the day broke we set off again, and toward evening arrived at a
lake. A canoe was brought out from some bushes; we all got into it, and
paddled up along the banks for two or three hours, when we disembarked
and renewed our journey. My feet were now becoming very sore and
painful, for they were blistered all over, and I could scarcely get
along; they compelled me, however, to proceed, not using any great
force, but still dragging me and pushing me, to make me keep up with
them. I soon perceived that I was a prisoner only, and not likely to be
ill treated if I complied with their wishes. Toward evening I could
hardly put one foot before the other, for they had obliged me to walk in
the water of a stream for two or three miles, and my shoes were quite
worn out in consequence. At night they again stopped, and the Indian
woman prepared some herbs, and applied them to my feet. This gave me
great relief, but still she continued to take no notice of any signs I
made to her. The next morning I found I had received so much benefit
from the application of the herbs, that for the first half of the day I
walked on pretty well, and was a little in advance, when, hearing the
chief speak in an angry tone behind me, I turned round, and, to my
horror, saw him raise his tomahawk, and strike down the poor Indian
woman. I could not refrain from hastening to her; but I had just time to
perceive that her skull was cloven, and that she was, as I imagined,
dead, when I was dragged away and forced to continue my journey. You may
imagine how my blood curdled at this scene, and how great were now my
apprehensions for myself. Why I had been carried away I knew not, for I
was as ignorant as you were of Percival being alive, and of the Young
Otter having been detained at the fort. My idea was, when the chief
struck down the Indian woman, that it was to get rid of her, and that I
was to replace her. This idea was almost madness, but still I had hope,
and I prayed as I walked along to that God who sees the most secret act,
and hears the most silent prayer of the heart, and I felt an assurance
while praying that I should be rescued. I knew that my absence would be
immediately discovered, and that there were those who would risk their
lives to rescue me, if I was still in existence; and I therefore used
all my efforts to walk on as fast as I could, and not irritate the
Indians. But that night I had no one to dress my feet, which were
bleeding and very much swelled, and I was very wretched when I lay down
alone. I could not drive from my thoughts the poor Indian woman
weltering in her blood, and murdered for no crime or fault -- nothing that
I could discover. The next morning, as usual, my food was some parched
Indian corn, and of that I received only a handful for my sustenance
during the twenty-four hours; however, hunger I never felt, I had too
much pain. I was able to drag myself on till about noon, when I felt
that I could not proceed further. I stopped and sat down; the chief
ordered me to get up again by signs; I pointed to my feet, which were
now swelled above the ankles, but he insisted, and raised his tomahawk
to frighten me into compliance. I was so worn out, that I could have
almost received the blow with thankfulness, but I remembered you, my
dear uncle and aunt and others, and resolved for your sakes to make one
more effort. I did so; I ran and walked for an hour more in perfect
agony; at last nature could support the pain no longer, and I fell
insensible
My poor Mary
I thought of you often and often, my dear sister
I believe it was a long while before I came to my senses
for when I did, I found that the Indians were very busy weaving
branches into a sort of litter. As soon as they had finished, they put
me upon it, and I was carried by two of them swinging on a pole which
they put on their shoulders. I need hardly say, that the journey was now
more agreeable than it was before, although my feet were in a dreadful
state, and gave me much pain. That night we stopped by a rivulet, and I
kept my feet in the water for two or three hours, which brought down the
inflammation and swelling very much, and I contrived after that to gain
some sleep. They carried me one more day, when they considered that they
had done enough, and I was again ordered to walk; I did so for two days,
and was then in the same condition as before. A litter was therefore
again constructed, and I was carried till I arrived at the lodges of the
Angry Snake and his band. What passed from that time you have heard from
Alfred
John, in our joy at
seeing your brother and cousin again, I quite forgot to scold you for
running away as you did
Then don't do it now, sir
for he was very useful, I
can assure you
No, I won't scold him now
but he must not act
so another time. If he had confided to me his anxious wish to join you,
I should probably have given my permission
I must now take my leave, and return to the fort
I do, however, trust I shall see you all again in a few days,
but I must report the results of the expedition, and the death of poor
Watkins. May I borrow one of your horses, Mr. Campbell
Certainly
you know the _bateau_ is expected
every day from Montreal; perhaps you will bring us our letters when it
arrives
How happy we are now, Mary
Yes, my dear Emma, we have had a lesson which will, I trust, prevent
any future repining, if we have felt any, at our present position. The
misery we have been rescued from has shown us how much we have to be
thankful for. We have nothing more to fear from the Indians, and I feel
as if I could now pass the remainder of my life here in peace and
thankfulness
Not without Captain Sinclair
Not always without him; the time will, I trust, come when I may reward
him for his patience and his regard for me; but it has not yet come; and
it's for my uncle and aunt to decide when it shall. Where's Percival
He is gone into the woods with Malachi, and with a rifle on his
shoulder, of which he is not a little proud. John is not at all jealous.
He says that Percival ought to know how to fire a rifle, and throw away
that foolish bow and arrow. Do you not think that his residence among
the Indians has made a great change in Percival
A very great one; he is more manly and more taciturn; he appears to
think more and talk less. But Henry is beckoning to us. Dinner is ready,
and we must not keep hungry people waiting
No
for in that case I should keep myself waiting
My dear children, your mother and I have had some conversation on one
or two points, and we have come to the decision that having so much to
thank God for, in his kindness and mercies shown toward us, it would be
selfish on our parts if we did not consult the happiness of others. We
are now independent, and with every prospect of being more so every day;
we are no longer isolated, but surrounded by those who are attached to
us and will protect us should there be any occasion. In short, we are
living in comfort and security, and we trust to Providence that we shall
continue so to do. You, my dear Alfred, generously abandoned your
profession to which you were so partial, to come and protect us in the
wilderness, and we knew too well the value of your services not to
accept them, although we were fully aware of the sacrifice which you
made; but we are no longer in the wilderness, and no longer require your
strong arm and bold heart. We have therefore decided that it is our
duty no longer to keep you from the profession to which you belong, but,
on the contrary, to recommend you now to rejoin and follow up your
career, which we trust in God may prove as prosperous as we are
convinced it will be honorable. Take our best thanks, my dear boy, for
your kindness to us, and now consider yourself at liberty to return to
England, and rejoin the service as soon as you please.

"And now I must address you, my dear Mary; you and your sister
accompanied us here, and since you have been with us, have cheered us
during our stay by your attentions and unwearied cheerfulness under all
the privations which we at first had to encounter. You have engaged the
affections of an honorable and deserving man, but at the same time have
never shown the least disposition to leave us; indeed, we know what your
determination has been, but your aunt and I consider it our present duty
to say, that much as we shall regret to part with one so dear, you must
no longer sacrifice yourself for us, but make him happy who so well
deserves you. That you will remain here is of course out of the
question; your husband's connections and fortune require that he should
return to England, and not bury himself in the woods of Canada. You have
therefore our full permission, and I may say, it will be most pleasing
to us, if you no longer delay your union with Captain Sinclair and
follow your husband; whenever and wherever you go, you will have our
blessing and our prayers, and the satisfaction of knowing that you have
been to us as a dutiful daughter, and that we love you as dearly as it
is possible for parents to do. Take her, Captain Sinclair, from my
hands, and take with her our blessings and best wishes for your
happiness, which I do not doubt will be as great as we can expect in
this checkered world; for a dutiful daughter will always become a good
wife
I wish you to go, Alfred
I wish you to rejoin a
service to which you are a credit. Do not believe otherwise, or that I
shall grieve too much at your departure
Go, my son
and let me
see you a post-captain before I die
Emma, you
are very grave at the idea of losing Mary, and I do not wonder at it,
but you will have one consolation,-- you will lose me too, and I shall no
longer plague you as you continually complain that I do
I never thought of that
well, you _are_ a
great plague, and the sooner you go
No bad news, I hope, Campbell
No, my dear Emily, no bad news, but most unexpected news; such as it
has been my fortune in life to receive once before this time. You
remember, although years have since passed, the letter that was brought
to us in our little parlor
Which put you in possession of Wexton Hall, Campbell
Yes, I did refer to that; but I will not keep you all in longer
suspense. This is but a counterpart of the former letter
May 7, 18 --

     "Dear Sir,-- It is with great pleasure that we have again to
     communicate to you that you may return, as soon as you please, and
     take possession of the Wexton Hall property.

     "You may remember that many months back Mr. Douglas Campbell
     received a fall from his horse when hunting. No serious
     consequences were anticipated, but it appears that his spine was
     injured, and after some months' close confinement, he expired on
     the 9th of April. As Mr. Douglas Campbell has left no issue, and
     you are the next in tail, you have now undisputed possession of the
     property which you so honorably surrendered some years since.

     "I have taken upon myself to act as your agent since Mr. Campbell's
     decease. Mrs. D. Campbell has a handsome settlement upon the
     property, which will of course fall in upon her demise. Waiting
     your commands,

                                            "I am, dear sir,

                                                 "Yours truly,

                                                    "J. HARVEY
Mr. Campbell, I congratulate you with all my heart
You have proved yourself deserving of
such good fortune; Mrs. Campbell, I need hardly add that my
congratulations extend to you
We are in the hands of Him, and do but execute His will. For your sake,
my dear Campbell, for the children's sake, perhaps, I ought to
rejoice -- we hardly know. That I am happy here, now that my children have
been restored to me, I confess. I doubt whether that happiness will be
increased by the return to Wexton Hall; at all events, I shall leave
this place with regret. We have had too many revolutions of fortune,
Campbell, since we have been united, not to have learned by experience
that a peaceful, quiet, and contented home is more necessary to our
happiness than riches
I feel as you do, Emily
but we are growing
old, and have been taught wisdom practically, by the events of a
checkered life. Our children, I perceive, think otherwise -- nor do I
wonder at it
I shan't go
I shall only be sent to school; no master
shall flog me -- I'm a man
Nor me
You shall neither of you go to school
but
still you must render yourselves fit for your stations in life, by
improving your minds, and attending those who will instruct you
I do not know what to do about John. He appears so resolute in his
determination not to go with us, that I fear he will run away into the
woods at the time of our departure. He is now continually with Malachi
and Martin, and appears to have severed himself from the family
It is hard to decide, Campbell; I have more than once thought it would
be better to leave him here. He is our youngest son. Henry will of
course inherit the estate, and we shall have to provide for the others
out of our savings. Now this property, by the time that John is of age,
will be of no inconsiderable value, and by no means a bad fortune for a
younger son. He appears so wedded to the woods and a life of nature,
that I fear it would only be the cause of continual regret and
discontent if we did take him to England; and if so, what comfort or
advantage should we gain by his returning? I hardly know what to
advise
I have serious thoughts of leaving him here under the charge of Martin
and Malachi
He would be happy; by and by he
would be rich. What could he obtain more in England? But it must be for
you to decide, my dear Emily. I know a mother's feelings, and respect
them
I can not decide at once, my dear husband. I will first talk with John,
and consult with Alfred and Henry
</text>
