<text>
us
Sis
purse
proud
When Geraldine is older she must go to school
unless by that time our ship comes in and we can afford a governess.
But when she is older it will not matter so much, as she will have
learnt to value things at their just worth
I don't think you would like it as much as you fancy you would
Not at present at least. When you are a few years older I hope to
send you for some classes to Miss Ledbury's school, and by that time you
will enjoy the good teaching. But except for the lessons, I am quite
sure it is better and happier for you to be at home, even though you
find it rather lonely sometimes
lion shop
came alive
the
East
I hope it will not rain
though it does look rather
threatening. But perhaps it will hold off till evening
And I can take my umbrella in case it rains
Yes,
mamma, I should like to come very much. Will Haddie come too
To tell the truth
I forgot to ask him this morning if he
would like to come, but he will be home soon -- it is nearly luncheon
time. I daresay he will like to come, especially as I have to go to
Cranston's
Oh yes, I am sure he will like to come
And may we buy
something for tea at Miss Fryer's on our way home
That will be two treats instead of one
but I daresay I can
afford two or three pence
thee
I give thee this
as a present
Thank you, Miss Fryer
Thank you, friend Susan
Thank _thee_
If only it does not rain
I don't mind if it does rain
because of my new
mackintosh
And Geraldine doesn't mind because of her new umbrella
So we are proof against the weather, whatever happens
eating paper
This is a lucky day, mamma
Mr. Simeon never forgets to give us gingerbreads when he is there
himself
No
he is a very kind man. Perhaps he has got Haddies and
Geraldines of his own, and knows what they like
And now are we going to Cranston's
Yes
I think I have done everything else. But I shall be
some little time at Cranston's. Mrs. Selwood has asked me to settle ever
so many things with him -- she is going abroad for the winter, and wants
him to do a good deal of work at Fernley while she is away
We don't mind if you are ever so long
do we, Haddie
No, of course we don't
I should like to spend a whole
day in those big show-rooms of his. Couldn't we have jolly games of
hide-and-seek, Sis? And then riding the lions! I wish you were rich
enough to buy one of the lions, mamma, and have it for an ornament in
the hall, or in the drawing-room
We should need to build a hall or a drawing-room to hold it
I'm afraid your lion would turn into a white elephant,
Haddie, if it became ours
Look, Haddie
doesn't it really
look as if they were smiling at us -- the one with the light on its face
especially? I really do think there's something funny about them -- I
wonder if they are enchanted
Yes
their faces do seem to change. But I think they always
look kind
They do to _us_
but sometimes they are quite
fierce. I don't think they looked at us the way they do now the first
time they saw us. And one day one of the men in the shop shoved
something against one of them and his face frowned -- I'm sure it did
I wonder if he'd frown if I got up on his back
Oh, do leave off about climbing on their backs
It wouldn't
be at all comfortable -- they're so broad, you couldn't sit cross-legs,
and they'd be as slippery as anything. It's much nicer to make up
stories about them coming alive in the night, or turning into black
princes and saying magic words to make the doors open like in the
Arabian Nights
Well, tell me stories of all they do then
I will if you'll let me think for a minute
I wish Aunty Etta
was here -- she does know such lovely stories
I like yours quite as well
I don't
remember Aunty Etta's; it's such a long time since I saw her. You saw
her last year, you know, but I didn't
She told me one about a china parrot, a most beautiful green and gold
parrot, that was really a fairy
I think I could turn it into
a lion story, if I thought about it
No
you can tell the parrot one another time. I'd rather
hear one of your own stories, new, about the lions. I know you've got
some in your head. Begin, do -- I'll help you if you can't get on
Well, then, there was once an old witch who lived in a very
lonely hut in the middle of a great forest
Haddie, my boy, Geraldine, I am quite ready
quickly obedient
My children are great admirers of your lions, Mr. Cranston
They are not singular in their taste, madam
I own that I am
very proud of them myself, and when my poor daughter was a child there
was nothing pleased her so much as when her mother or I lifted her on to
one of them, and made believe she was going a ride
There now you see, Sis
Oh, by the bye, Mr. Cranston
I was forgetting to ask
how your little grandchild is. Have you seen her lately
She is very well, madam, I thank you
And I am pleased to
say that she is coming to stay with us shortly. We hope to keep her
through the winter. Her stepmother is very kind, but with little
children of her own, it is not always easy for her to give as much
attention as she would like to Myra, and she and Mr. Raby have responded
cordially to our invitation
I am very glad to hear it -- very glad indeed
I know what
a pleasure it will be to you and Mrs. Cranston. Let me see -- how old is
the little girl now -- seven, eight
_Nine_, madam, getting on for ten indeed
Dear me
how time passes! I remember seeing her when she
was a baby -- before we came to live here, of course, once when I was
staying at Fernley, just after
Just after her poor mother died -- yes, madam
You had better put on your mackintosh, Haddie
It may rain
again. No, Geraldine dear, there is no use opening your umbrella till it
does rain
We may stop at Miss Fryer's, mayn't we, mamma
Well, yes, I suppose I promised you something for tea
How much may we spend
Sixpence -- do say sixpence, and then
we can get enough for you to have tea with us too
Haddie
as if we wouldn't give mamma something
however little we had
We'd offer it her of course, but you know she wouldn't take it
So it's much better to have really enough for all
Then I suppose it must be sixpence
and here we are at Miss
Fryer's. Shall we walk on, my little girl, I think you must be tired,
and let Haddie invest in cakes and run after us
Oh no, please mamma, dear
I like so to choose too
Then I will go on
and you two can come after me
together
for a change
I think thee will find these good
and I hope
thy dear mother will not think them too rich for thee and thy brother
thou wilt
thee will
Tea is quite ready, dears
Run upstairs quickly, Geraldine,
and take off your things, they must be rather damp. I am going to have
my real tea with you, for I have just had a note from your father to say
he won't be in till late and I am not to wait for him
Wasn't it kind of Miss Fryer, mamma
Very kind
I think she is really fond of children though
she is so grave. She has not forgotten what it was to be a child
herself
I suppose children _are_ all rather like each other
Like
about Haddie, and that little girl riding on the lions
That was _quite_ different
She was a baby and had to be
held on. It was the fun of climbing up _I_ cared for
She wasn't a baby
She's nine years old, he said she
was -- didn't he, mamma
You are mixing two things together
Mr. Cranston was
speaking first of his daughter long ago when she was a child, and then
he was speaking of _her_ daughter, little Myra Raby, who is now nine
years old
Why did he say my 'poor' daughter
Did you not hear the allusion to her death? Mrs. Raby died soon after
little Myra was born. Mr. Raby married again -- he is a clergyman not very
far from Fernley
A clergyman
A clergyman, and he married a shopkeeper's
daughter
There are very different kinds of shopkeepers, Haddie
Mr. Cranston is very rich, and his daughter was very well educated and
very nice. Still, no doubt Mr. Raby was in a higher position than she,
and both Mr. Cranston and his wife are very right-minded people, and
never pretend to be more than they are. That is why I was so glad to
hear that little Myra is coming to stay with them. I was afraid the
second Mrs. Raby might have looked down upon them perhaps
Mamma
if she is a nice little girl like what her
mamma was, mightn't I have her to come and see me and play with me? I
have never had any little girl to play with, and it is so dull
sometimes -- the days that Haddie is late at school and when you are busy.
Do say I may have her -- I'm sure old Mr. Cranston would let her come, and
then I might go and play with her sometimes perhaps. Do you think she
will play among the furniture -- where the lions are
No, dear
I am quite sure her grandmother would not
like that. For you see anybody might come into the shop or show-rooms,
and it would not seem nice for a little girl to be playing there -- not
nice for a carefully brought-up little girl, I mean
Then I don't think I should care to go to her house
but I
would like her to come here. Please let her, mamma dear
We shall see
I'm not asleep, dear mamma
Do kiss me again
That is what I have come for
Dear mamma
I _am_ so happy -- I'm always happy,
but to-night I feel so _extra_ happy, somehow
Darling
extra
Mamma
Well, dear
Mamma
may I say something? I have a feeling that -- that
you are -- that there is something the matter
Geraldine, my dear, you know that I tell you as much as I think it
right to tell any one as young as you -- I tell you more, of our plans and
private matters and such things, than most mothers tell their little
daughters. This has come about partly through your being so much alone
with me. But when I _don't_ tell you anything, even though you may
suspect there is something to tell, you should trust me that there is
good reason for my not doing so
Yes
Would you just
tell me one thing, mamma
it isn't anything that you're
really unhappy about, is it
Dear child
try to put it out of your mind. I can only say
this much to you, I am _anxious_ more than troubled. There is nothing
the matter that should really be called a trouble. But your father and I
have a question of great importance to decide just now, and we are
very -- I may say really _terribly_ -- anxious to decide for the best. That
is all I can tell you. Kiss me, my darling, and try to be your own
bright little self. That will be a comfort and help to me
If he accepts it
you, my dear Blanche,
must go with him, and some arrangement would have to be made about the
children for the time. I would advise your sending them to school
very
sensible
Why, Haddie
do you mind so much? They'll be back on Monday
No, of course I don't mind _that_
But I wonder why mamma
looks so -- so awfully trying-not-to-cry, you know
Oh
I don't think she's quite well. And she hates leaving
us
No
there's something more
You needn't try to frighten me like that
I meant to be quite
happy while they were away -- to please mamma, you know, by telling her so
when she comes back
I didn't mean to frighten you
perhaps it was my fancy. I
don't want to be unhappy while they're away, I'm sure. I'm only too glad
that to-day's Saturday and to-morrow Sunday
And long ago before that
when mother was a little lass,
it was such a pretty village -- cottages all over with creepers and
honeysuckle -- not ugly rows of houses as like each other as peas. The
people worked at home on their own hand-looms then
The Dark River
Aren't you thankful they're coming home to-morrow
I've never minded their being away so much before
Yes
I'm very glad
Mamma, dear
what is it
Why, dear, why should you think -- oh, I don't know what I am saying
It's something in your face, mamma
We had meant to tell you and Haddie this evening
father
and I together; but perhaps it is better. Yes, my Geraldine, there is
something. Till now it was not quite certain, though it has been hanging
over us for some weeks, ever since
Since that day I asked you -- the morning after father came home so late
and you had been crying
Yes, since then
Haddie of course must go to school
to a larger and better
school -- Mrs. Selwood speaks of Rugby, if it can be managed. He will be
happy there, every one says. But about you, my Geraldine
Oh, mamma
do let me go to school too. I have always
wanted to go, you know, and except for being away from you, I would far
rather be a boarder. It's really being at school then. I know they
rather look down upon day-scholars -- Haddie says so
We _are_ thinking of sending you to school, my child
and of course it must be as a boarder. Mrs. Selwood advises
Miss Ledbury's school here. She has known the old lady long and has a
very high opinion of her, and it is not very far from Fernley in case
Miss Ledbury wished to consult Mrs. Selwood about you in any way, or in
case you were ill
I am very glad
I should like to go to Miss Ledbury's
She is a very young child still
It is quite possible that she will _not_ suffer
from the separation as we have feared. It may be much easier for her
than if she had been two or three years older
The what
Oh, the being all separated
But you'd have had to go away to a big school some day
You didn't want always to go to a day-school
No
but it's the holidays
Oh, I daresay something nice will be settled for the holidays
we shall see
ologies
Teach a girl to write a good hand, to read aloud so that you can
understand what she says, to make a shirt and make a pudding and to add
up the butcher's book correctly, and she'll do
And what about accomplishments
She should be able to play a tune on the piano, and to sing a nice
English song or two if she has a voice, and maybe to paint a wreath of
flowers if her taste lies that way. That sort of thing would do no harm
if she doesn't waste time over it
puddings
My poor Geraldine
I don't know how she will stand such a dreary day
After all
Geraldine is very young, and will accommodate
herself better than you think to her new circumstances. She will enjoy
companions of her own age too. And we know that Miss Ledbury is a good
and kind woman -- the disadvantages seem trifling, though I should not
like to think the child was to be there for longer than these two
years
right hand
oh yes
Queen Anne
lustres
fairy-godmother-like
Oh dear no, not nearly as old as that
You must
not say anything like that, Geraldine. It would offend her. She cannot
be more than sixty
Did you see that little girl with the rosy cheeks, mamma? The one with
a red feather in her hat. _Doesn't_ she look nice
She looked a good-humoured little person
I did notice one
_very_ sweet face
I mean the young lady at the end -- one
of the governesses no doubt
She must be one of the younger teachers, I should think. I hope you
may be in her class. You must tell me if you are when you write to me,
and tell me her name
How pleased father seems to be about going so far away
Miss Ledbury
Not Miss Ledbury. I am Miss Aspinall, her _niece_
Oh, I beg your pardon
I understood
Miss Ledbury is not very well this morning
She
deputed me to express her regrets
Oh certainly
This is my little daughter -- you have seen
her before, I suppose
No
How do you do, my dear
indeed
just so
Well, I think that is all. Good-bye, my little woman, then. Good-bye,
my darling. She will be a good girl, I am sure, Miss Aspinall; she has
been a dear good child at home
GOOD-BYE
Good-bye, my own little girl
Who
It's Lydia
She's come to unpack my things. Mamma sent her
Come to unpack your things
There must be
some mistake -- that is quite unnecessary. There is no occasion for you to
wait
Miss Geraldine won't know about them all, I'm afraid
She
has not been used to taking the charge of her things yet
Then the sooner she learns the better
Good-bye, dear Miss Geraldine
Good-bye, dear Lydia
You will write to me, Miss Geraldine
Of course I will; I know your address
I really cannot wait any longer; you
must come upstairs at once to take off your things
I beg pardon
This is your room
This is your bed
The Miss Smiths are your companions. They share the large chest of
drawers, and your things will go into the smaller one
There won't be nearly room enough
Nonsense, child
There must be room enough for
you if there is room enough for much older and
At
your age many clothes are not requisite. I think, on the whole, it will
be better for you not to unpack or arrange your own things. One of the
governesses shall do so, and all that you do not actually require must
stay in your trunk and be put in the box-room
Now take off your things at once
You must keep
on your boots till your shoes are got out, but take care not to stump
along the passages. Do your hands want washing? No, you have your gloves
on. As soon as you are ready, go down two flights of stairs till you
come to the passage under this on the next floor. The door at the end is
the second class schoolroom, where you will be shown your place
I wish there were only two beds, not three
And I
would like the little girl with the rosy face to sleep in my room. I
wonder if she's Miss Smith perhaps. I wonder if there's several little
girls as little as me. I'd like to know all their names, so as to write
and tell them to mamma and Haddie
Did Miss Aspinall send you here
Yes
Yes
Yes _who_, if you
please? Yes, Miss
Yes, Miss
What manners! Fie
I think indeed it was quite time for you to come to school. If
you cannot say my name, you can at least say ma'am
I don't know your name, Miss -- ma'am
Miss Aspinall sent you to my class, _Miss Broom's_ class
No, ma'am -- Miss Broom -- she didn't
Silence, young ladies
Go on with your copying out
Let me hear how you can read
Very bad
very bad indeed for eleven years old
I am not eleven, Miss Broom
I am only nine past
LITTLE GIRLS MUST NOT CONTRADICT, AND MUST NOT BE
RUDE
Little girls must not contradict, and must not be rude
could learn if I chose
French
What's your name
My name
Yes, your name. Didn't Miss Lardner say what's your name? Dear
me -- don't stand gaping there like a monkey on a barrel-organ
gaping
I say
what _is_ your name? And are you going to
stay to dinner every day, or only when it rains, like Lizzie Burt
I am going to be at dinner always
I am a boarder
A boarder
Then Harriet Smith'll have to give up
being baby. You're ever so much younger than her, I'm sure
What are you saying about me
Only that that pretty snub nose of yours is going to be put out of
joint
What are you saying
I'm not going to have any
of your teasing, Joe
It's not teasing -- it's truth
You're not the
baby any more. _She_
she's younger than you
How old are you
Nine past
Nine and a half
Hurrah! Hurrah
I'm only nine and a month. I'm still
the baby, Miss Joe
What a mite you are, to be sure
nine and a half
and no bigger than that
You haven't told us your name yet, after all
It's Geraldine
That's my first name, and I'm always called
it
Geraldine what
Geraldine Theresa Le Marchant -- that's all my names
My goodness
how grand we are! Great Mexington's
growing quite aristocratic. I didn't know monkeys had such fine names
Where do you come from
Come from
I don't know
Oh, I say
I know. She's going to sleep in our room. I
saw them putting sheets on the bed in the corner, but Jane wouldn't tell
me who they were for. Emma
Emma, I say, she's going to sleep in our room I'm sure
I say
if it's true you're to sleep in our room I
hope you understand you must do what I tell you. I'm the eldest. You're
not to back up Harriet to disobey me
No
I don't want to do anything like that
Well, then
you'll be Emma's friend, not mine
Oh, mamma
I wish I could see you to tell you
about it. It isn't a bit like what I thought it would be
I'm only in fun
of course we'll be friends. I'll tell you
how we'll do
Come over here
where none of the big ones can hear what we say
Yes -- I'm sure it's the same. He's a bank clerk, I think. I've heard
papa speak of them. They're awfully poor -- come-down-in-the-world sort of
people
Oh, then, I expect when she's old enough she'll be a governess -- perhaps
she'll be a sort of teacher here to begin with
As bad as a boy
I don't know what you mean
That's because you've not got a brother, I suppose
Our
brother's a perfect nuisance. He's so spoilt -- papa lets him do just as
he likes. Emma and I hate the holidays because of him being at home. But
it's the worst for me, you see. Emma hates Fred bullying her, so she
might know I hate her bullying me
I have a brother
Then you know what it is. Why didn't you say so
Because I don't know what it is. Haddie never teases me. I love being
with him
My goodness! Then you're not like most
Oh no
I had mamma
Was she good to you
or was she very strict
Then why are you a boarder
_We_'ve not got a mamma, but
even if we had I'm sure she wouldn't teach us herself. I suppose your
mamma isn't rich enough to pay for a governess for you
I don't know
I don't think any
governess would be as nice as mamma
Then why have you come to school
Because
because father and mamma have to go away
What's the matter
I'd rather not talk about mamma just now
I'll tell you
afterwards
Up in our room
oh yes, that'll be jolly. We've got all
sorts of dodges
dodges
Have you no work, my dear
It isn't unpacked
Can you knit
I can knit plain -- plain and purl -- just straight on
But I've
never done it round like that
Never mind, you will learn easily, as you know how to knit. Come and
sit beside me, so that I can watch you
favouring
spoilt
pet
very nice -- a little looser
won't it be nice
to knit socks for your father or brother, if you have a brother
giving myself airs
out of her
Where can all my other things be
What more have you
And all my other things
not clothes, I don't mean, but my
workbox and my new writing-desk, and the picture of father and mamma and
Haddie
carte-de-visite
and my
china dog and the rabbits, and my scraps of silk, and all my puzzles,
and, and
Can
they be all together for me to unpack myself
I'm afraid
Young ladies
I cannot have this. No talking after the last
bell has rung. My dear Miss Smith, you are not usually so forgetful. If
it is _you_, Miss Marchant, it is a very bad beginning, disobedience the
very first evening
She didn't know
It isn't her fault
And if
she had known
she couldn't have helped it. Miss
Broom, somebody's took such lots of her things. Tell her, Gerry
You are a most impertinent child
to say such a thing.
There are no thieves at Green Bank -- what a mind you must have! Your
things are safely packed away. Such as you really need you shall have
from time to time as I or Miss Aspinall think fit. The frock you have on
must be kept as your best one, and you must wear the brown check every
day. You have far too many clothes -- absurd extravagance -- no wonder
It's the other things I mind
Nonsense
We cannot have the rooms littered with rubbish.
Miss Aspinall left it to me. You may have your Biblical dissected maps
on Sundays, and perhaps some of the other puzzles during the Christmas
holidays, but young ladies do not come to school to amuse themselves,
but to work hard at their lessons
I don't see but what you might let her have some things out
Harry and I have. Look at the mantelpiece -- the china figures and
the Swiss chalets are our ornaments, and there's quite room for some
more
Horrid old cat
I wouldn't mind anything else if only she'd let me have papa and
mamma's picture
_Of course_ you should have that
I'm sure Miss Ledbury
would let you have it. I think even Miss Aspinall would. Don't be
unhappy, Gerry, I'll see if I can't do something for you to-morrow
What are you doing
Dear, dear, you don't mean to say you
have been all this afternoon writing that letter? What a waste of time!
No, no, you must not do that. Miss Ledbury will seal it
It doesn't need sealing
It is a gumming-down envelope
No letters leave this house without being first read by Miss Ledbury or
Miss Aspinall
Why do you stare so? It is the rule at every
school
If you have written
nothing you should not, you have no reason to dread its being seen
Yes, I have
I have
Nobody
would say to strangers all they'd say to their own mamma
You are a very naughty girl
a very naughty girl indeed. I
saw at once how spoilt and self-willed you were, but I never could have
believed you would dare to give way to such violent temper
weekly boarders
MY POOR LITTLE GIRL, WHAT _IS_ THE MATTER
My poor little girl, what _is_ the matter
Oh
it's my letter, and she's taken it
away -- that horrid, _horrid_ Miss Broom
Dear child
try not to take this so much to heart. I
daresay your letter will be sent just as it is. Miss Broom is sure to
apply to Miss Aspinall, perhaps to Miss Ledbury. And Miss Ledbury is
really kind, and she must have had great experience in such things
I must not talk to you any more just now
I came to fetch a
book
No, ma'am
Yes,
ma'am
growing
accustomed
It's only that stupid child
holiday engagement
She doesn't care for me
Only
she would most likely be as unhappy as I am, so I shouldn't wish for
it
Myra
Raby
Miss Raby
Myra Raby
She must be somebody very rich and grand
my poor
little girl
Why do you say that
Are you less unhappy than when you first came to school
No
I'm much unhappier when I think about it. But I'm
getting not to think, so I don't care
I wish
When I come back after
Easter
I hope I may somehow manage to see
more of you, dear Geraldine
Thank you
Do you mean to defy me
She doesn't hear; she's crying so
Gerry, dear, Miss Broom
says you're to go up to your room
You'd better take care, Harry
or you'll be
getting into disgrace yourself, which certainly won't do Gerry any good.
Do be quick and make yourself tidy, the tea-bell will be ringing in a
moment. Hadn't you better wash your face and brush your hair, Gerry -- you
do look such a figure
I can't go down unless Miss Broom says I may
and I don't
want any tea
Oh, nonsense
You'd feel ever so much better if you had
some tea. What _I_ think you're so silly for is _minding_ -- why need you
care what that old Broom says? She daren't beat you or starve you, and
once you're at home again you can snap your fingers at school and
governesses and
Oh, well, I can't help it
It
doesn't do any good to cry like that, whatever troubles you have
Very well
That horrid old Broom
just fancy her complaining to
Miss Aspinall
Promise me, Gerry
not to mind what she says, and
whatever you do, don't cry. There's nothing vexes old Broom so much as
seeing we don't care -- mean old cat
ever
so much better
And worst of all
you have got into such a
habit of making excuses that it really amounts to telling untruths.
Several times, Miss Broom tells me, you have done a wrong lesson or not
done one at all, and you have maintained to her that you had not been
told what you _had_ been told -- there was something about your French
poetry yesterday, which you _must_ have known you were to learn. Miss
Broom says you positively denied it
I never tell stories
and if Miss Broom says I
do, I'll write to mamma and tell her. I _won't_ stay here if you say
such things to me
Go back to your room
I am sorry to say I must lay this
before Miss Ledbury
I don't know how you'll get on now
with both her and Miss
Broom so against you. You should just not have minded -- like Emma said
Not mind her saying I told stories
Well
_I_ mind it, whether you do or not. And I'm _going_ to mind it. I
shall write to mamma and tell her I can't stay here any more, and I'm
sure when she hears it she'll do _something_. She won't let me stay
here. Or -- or -- perhaps father will fix to come home again and not stay as
long as two years there
I don't think he'll do that
What do you mean? What do you know about it
Oh, nothing -- I shouldn't have said it -- it was only something I heard
Something you heard
Then you _must_ tell me. Do you mean there's been letters or
news about father and mamma that I don't know about
No, no
Of course not
Then what do you mean? You shall tell me -- if you don't
I'll
I'll tell you what I'll
do, I'll go straight downstairs, just as I am, in my nightgown, to Miss
Ledbury herself, and tell her what you've said. I don't care if she
beats me, I don't care what she does, but I _will_ know
What a horrid temper you're getting, Gerry
Just when I hurried up to bed as quick as I could to talk to you. It's
nothing, I tell you -- only something I heard at home, and Emma said I
wasn't ever to tell it you
You shall tell me, or I'll do what I said
You'll not tell Emma, then? You promise
I promise
Well, then, it was only one day -- papa was talking about somebody going
to South America, and I said that was where your papa and mamma had
gone, and papa asked your name, and then he said he had seen your papa
at the bank, and it was a pity he hadn't been content to stay there. It
was such a bad climate where he'd gone -- lots of people got ill and died
there, unless they were rich enough to live out of the town, and he
didn't suppose any one who'd only been a clerk in the bank here would be
that. And Emma said, couldn't your papa and mamma come back if they got
ill, and he said if they waited till then it would be rather too late.
There's some fever people get there, that comes all of a sudden. And
besides that, your papa must have promised he'd stay two years -- they
always do
What are you doing, Gerry
Why don't you speak? Are you
going to sleep or are you crying? Very likely your papa and mamma won't
get that illness. I wish I hadn't told you
Never mind
I'm going to sleep
And you won't tell Emma
Of course not -- don't you believe my word? Do you too think that I tell
stories
You're very cross
Do go to sleep -- don't be so unhappy
This is the poem you should have learnt yesterday
though
you denied having been told so. Miss Aspinall desires you to take it
upstairs to your room and learn it, as you can do perfectly, if you
choose, by three o'clock. Then you are to come downstairs to the
drawing-room, where you will find her
Very well
I will learn it
Come in
Do you not see Miss Ledbury
I -- I forgot
You must try to be more thoughtful
Now give me your book
I want to hear your
French verses myself
Begin, my dear
Very well said -- now, my dear child, that shows that you can learn well
when you try
Of course she can
But more important than learning your lessons well
is to be perfectly truthful and honest. What has distressed
me, Geraldine, has been to hear that when -- as may happen to any
child -- you have forgotten a lesson, or learnt it imperfectly, instead of
at once owning your fault, you have tried to screen yourself behind
insincere excuses. That was the case about these very verses, was it
not, Miss Aspinall
It was
Miss Broom will tell you all the
particulars
I wish you to state exactly what you have had to complain of in
Geraldine Le Marchant
Geraldine has said her French poetry perfectly
I think she
has taken pains to learn it well
It is some time since she has said any lesson perfectly to _me_, I am
sorry to say
You can judge for yourself
Repeat the verses to Miss
Broom, Geraldine
I've forgotten it
Impossible
Geraldine
do not make me
distrust you
Geraldine
Geraldine
I beg you to try
to master this naughty obstinate spirit. Say the verses again, and all
may be well
No, no
I can't, I can't. It is true that I've forgotten
them, and if I could say them I wouldn't now, because you all think me a
story-teller
Take her upstairs to her room again
Geraldine,
your tears are only those of anger and temper
the garden
old-fashionedness
Is -- can I see cook
Cook
I'm sure I can't say. Can't you give me
your message -- Miss
I'd rather see her, please. I want to ask her for Mrs. Selwood's
address. Mrs. Selwood's a friend of mamma's, and I'm sure cook would
know. We used to live here, and Lydia said cook was going to stay
Oh
I see. But it's no use your seeing our cook, Miss.
She's a stranger. The other one -- Sarah Wells was her name
Yes, yes
that's her
She's gone -- weeks ago. Her father was ill, and she had to go home. I'm
sorry, Miss
but it can't be helped. And
I think you'd better go home quick. It's coming on to rain again, and
it'll soon be dark, and you're such a little young lady to be out
alone
Thank you
what
should I do
home
home
I know what I'll do
I'll go to the big grocer's
where they give Haddie and me those nice gingerbreads, and I'll ask
_them_ for Mrs. Selwood's address. I remember mamma said Mrs. Selwood
always bought things there. And -- and -- I won't write to her. I'll go to
the railway and see if I've money enough to get a ticket, and I'll go
to Mrs. Selwood and tell her how I can't bear it any longer. I've got
four shillings, and if that isn't enough I daresay the railway people
wouldn't mind if I promised I'd send it them
You had better put on your mackintosh, Haddie
Cranston and Co
How glad I am I came in here
I don't mind if I
have to wait a good while. It is so cosy and warm
Poor little girl; so she has come at last. Well, as you say, brother,
we have been expecting her for a good while, have we not
Yes, indeed, but speak softly. It would be a pity to awake her. And
what we have to do can be done just as well while she sleeps
I don't agree with you
I should much prefer
her being awake. She would enjoy the ride, and she is an intelligent
child and would profit by our conversation
As you like
I must be off to fetch the boy. She
will perhaps be awake by the time I return
I -- please I _am_ awake
It was me you were
talking about, wasn't it
_I_ --'it was _I_'-- the verb to be takes the same case after it as
before it
It was I, then
Please -- I heard you saying something -- something about
going a ride. And where has the -- the other Mr. Lion gone? I heard
about -- a boy
You heard correctly
My brother has gone
to fetch _your_ brother -- we planned it all some time ago -- we shall meet
on the sea-shore and travel together. But we should be starting. Can you
climb up on to my back
Oh yes
I'm sure I can
Catch hold of my mane
don't mind tugging, it won't
hurt
Shut your eyes
go to sleep if you like. I'll wake you when we meet the others
Thank you
Here they are
Haddie
Yes, yes, Geraldine, it's me
We're going right over the sea -- did you know?-- isn't it splendid? We're
going to see father and mamma. Hold out your hand so that you can feel
mine
Wake up, Geraldine
Where are the lions, Haddie
They're all right
resting a little. You see we've come a
long way, Geraldine, and so quick
And where are we
What is this place, Haddie? Is it
fairyland or -- or -- heaven
It's not either
You'll find out the name yourself. But
come, we must be quick, for we can't stay very long. Hold my hand tight
and then we can run faster
It must be fairyland
Geraldine
look there
My darlings, my darlings
Mamma, mamma
oh, mamma, I am so happy
to be with you. Is this your garden, mamma, and may we stay with you
always now? Wasn't it good of the lions to bring us? I have been so
unhappy, mamma -- somebody said you would get ill far away. But nobody
could get ill here. Oh, mamma, you will let us stay always
Geraldine
I told you we couldn't stay long. The lions would
be scolded if we did, and you know you must say your French poetry
French poetry
oh, Haddie, how can you remind me of it
You must try to drink this, my dear
Try to drink this, my dearie
I wonder if it was with riding so far in the night
I didn't
feel at all cold on the lion's back, and in the garden it was lovelily
warm
Geraldine, my poor little girl
my
poor little girl
You remember me, dear
Don't speak if you feel too ill or if it tires you. But don't
feel frightened or unhappy, though you are in a strange
place -- everything will be right
When did you come
You weren't here when I woke before. It
was -- somebody with a cap -- first I thought it was one of the lions
One of the lions
You mean the carved lions that
Myra is so fond of. No -- that was a very funny fancy of yours -- a lion
with a cap on! It was old Hannah that you saw, the old nurse. She has
been watching beside you all night. When you awoke before, I was out. I
went out very early
I don't understand
and it hurts me to speak. Is this your
house, Miss Fenmore, and how do you know about the lions? And who
brought me in here, and why didn't I know when I was put in this bed
Don't speak, dear
and I will explain it all. The
doctor said you were not to speak if it hurt you
The doctor
Yes
the doctor who lives in this street -- Dr.
Fallis. He knows you quite well, and you know him, don't you? Just nod
your head a little, instead of speaking
Dr. Fallis
Oh, I would so like to see him. He could tell
me
Why didn't I
know when he came
You were asleep, dear, but he is coming again
He was afraid you had got a sore throat by the way you
breathed. You must have caught cold in the evening down in the show-room
by the lions, before they found you
best bedroom
He said we were to let you have your sleep out
though by your breathing he was afraid you had caught cold. How is your
throat now, dear
It doesn't hurt very much
only it feels very shut up
I expect you will have to stay in bed all to-day
Dr.
Fallis will be coming soon and then we shall know
But -- but
Must
I go back to school
Oh, Miss Fenmore, they will be so
angry -- I came away without leave, because -- because I couldn't bear it,
and they said I told what wasn't true -- that was almost the worst of all.
Fancy if they wrote and told mamma that I told lies
She would not believe it
and besides, I
don't think Miss Ledbury would do such a thing, and she always writes to
the parents herself, I know. And she is kind and good, Geraldine
P'raps she means to be
but it's Miss Aspinall
and -- and -- Miss Broom. I think I hate her, Miss Fenmore. Oh, I shouldn't
say that -- I never used to hate anybody. I'm getting all wrong and
naughty, I know
Geraldine, dear
do try to be calm. If you could tell me
all about it quietly, the speaking would do you less harm than crying
so. Try, dear. You need not speak loud
He will understand
and he will explain to Miss Ledbury. I
have seen Miss Ledbury this morning already, and
Was she dreadfully angry
No, dear
She had been terribly frightened
about you, and Miss Aspinall and some of the servants had been rushing
about everywhere. But Miss Ledbury is very good, as I keep telling you,
Geraldine. She is very sorry to hear how unhappy you have been, and if
she had known how anxious you were about your father and mother she
would have tried to comfort you. I wish you had told her
I wanted to tell her, but Miss Broom was there, and they thought I told
stories
Well, never mind about that now. You shall ask Dr. Fallis, and I am
sure he will tell you you need not be so unhappy
Well, well
and how
is the little runaway? My dear child, why did you not come to me,
instead of wandering all about Great Mexington streets in the dark and
the rain? Not that you could have found anywhere better for yourself
than this kind house, but you might have been all night downstairs in
the cold! Tell me, what made you run away like that -- no, don't tell me
just yet. It is all right now, but I think you have talked enough. Has
she had anything to eat
She must stay in bed all to-day
I will see her
again this evening
Geraldine is very anxious to tell you one of the chief causes of her
coming away from Green Bank as she did
I wanted to write to Mrs. Selwood, and I thought Mr. Cranston would
tell me her address
Can you tell it me? I do so want to
write to her
Mrs. Selwood is abroad, my dear, and not returning till next month
but I think I can tell you perhaps better than she about your parents.
I know the place -- Mr. Le Marchant consulted me about it before he
decided on going, as he knew I had been there myself in my young days.
Unhealthy? No, not if people take proper care. Your father and mother
live in the best part -- on high ground out of the town -- there is never
any fever there. And I had a most cheerful letter from your father quite
lately. Put all these fears out of your head, my poor child. Please God
you will have papa and mamma safe home again before long. But they must
not find such a poor little white shrimp of a daughter when they come.
You must get strong and well and do all that this kind young lady tells
you to do. Good-bye -- good-bye
Miss Fenmore
I wonder why they didn't take me with
them, if it's a nice place. And then there wouldn't have been all these
dreadful things
It is quite a different matter to take a child to a hot climate
Grown-up people can stand much that would be very bad for girls
and boys. When I was little my father was in India, and my sister and I
had to be brought up by an aunt in England
Did you mind
And did your papa soon come home? And
where was your mamma
I was very happy with my aunt
she was like a mother to me.
For my mother died when I was a little baby. Yes, my father has been
home several times, but he is in India again now, and he won't be able
to come back for good till he is quite old. So you have much happier
things to look forward to, you see, Geraldine
Is Mrs. Cranston your aunt
Is that why you are living here
No
I thought somehow that you understood. I am here
because I am Myra Raby's governess -- Myra Raby, who used to come for some
lessons to Green Bank
Oh
Oh yes
I remember her, and I know she's Mr. Cranston's grand-daughter -- he was
speaking of her to mamma one day. I should like to see her, Miss
Fenmore. May I
pretty
Dr. Fallis gave us leave to come in to see you, my dear
Myra has been longing to do so all the morning
I've been wanting to see her too
And -- please -- it's very kind of you to let me stay here in this nice
room. I didn't mean to fall asleep downstairs. I only wanted to speak to
Mr. Cranston
I'm sure Mr. Cranston would be very pleased to tell you anything he can
that you want to know, my dear. But I think you mustn't trouble just now
about anything except getting quite well
Myra has
been wanting to come to see you all the morning, but we were afraid of
tiring you
May she stay with me a little
Of course she may -- that's what she came for
But I don't think you should talk much. Missie's voice sounds
as if it hurt her to speak
It doesn't hurt me much
I daresay I shall be quite well
to-morrow. I am so glad I'm here -- I wouldn't have liked to be ill at
school
I'm quite happy now that Dr.
Fallis says it's not true about father and mamma getting ill at that
place, and I don't want to ask Mr. Cranston anything now, thank you. It
was about Mrs. Selwood, but I don't mind now
Are you very tired, my dear
Perhaps it would be better for
Myra not to stay just now
Oh, please let her stay
I like to see her
Are you going to sleep, Geraldine
Oh no
I'm not sleepy. I was only thinking
How unhappy you must have been when your mamma went away
I
can't remember my own mamma, but mother
is
so kind, and granny is so sweet. I've never been lonely
You can't fancy what it's like
It wasn't only mamma's going
away; I know Haddie -- that's my brother -- loves her as much as I do, but
he's not very unhappy, because he likes his school. Oh, Myra, what
_shall_ I do when I have to go back to school? I'd rather be ill always.
Do you think I'll have to go back to-morrow
I don't think you'll be quite well to-morrow
When I have bad colds and sore throats they always last
longer than one day
I'd like to talk a great lot to keep my throat from getting quite
well
but I suppose that would be very naughty
Yes
I'm sure it would be. You really
mustn't talk, Geraldine; granny said so. Mayn't I read aloud to you?
I've brought a book with me -- it's an old story-book of mamma's that she
had when she was a little girl. Granny keeps them here all together.
This one is called _Ornaments Discovered_
Thank you
Yes, I should like it very much
I will come again after dinner
I wish you would go downstairs and tell the carved lions that they made
me very happy last night, and I _am_ so glad they brought me back here
to you, instead of taking me to Green Bank
Where did they take you to in the night
I'll tell you all about it afterwards
It was beautiful. But
it would take a long time to tell, and I'm rather tired
You are looking tired, dear
Try to go to sleep for a
little, and then Myra can come to sit with you again
Oh, Myra
it is just that I can't bear to think of going back
to school. I'd rather never get well if only I could stay here till
mamma comes home
Dear little Geraldine
dear little Geraldine, you
mustn't say that. I don't think it's right. And, you know, when you are
quite well again things won't seem so bad to you. I remember once when I
was ill -- I was quite a little girl then
I think it was when I had had the measles, the
least thing vexed me dreadfully. I cried because somebody had given me a
present of a set of wooden tea-things in a box, and the tea ran out of
the cups when I filled them! Fancy crying for that
I know
I've felt like that too. But this is a _real_
trouble, Myra -- a real, very bad, dreadful trouble, though I've promised
mamma to try to be good. Do you think, Myra, that when I'm back at
school your grandmamma will sometimes ask me to come to see you
I'm sure
What is my little girl sure about
And how is my other
little girl to-day? Not too tired
You
have not been writing too much, dearie, I hope
No, thank you
I'm not tired
She's only rather unhappy, granny
I think that's a very big 'only
Can't you tell
me, my dear, what you are unhappy about
Granny
poor little Geraldine is unhappy to think of going
away and going back to school
Poor dear
you have not had much pleasure with us, as you
have been ill all the time
I don't mind
I was telling Myra, only she thought it was
naughty, that I'd rather be ill always if I was with kind people,
than -- than -- be at school where nobody cares for me
Well, well, my dear, the troubles we dread are often those that don't
come to pass. Try to keep up your spirits and get quite well and
strong, so that you may be able to enjoy yourself a little before both
you and Myra leave us
Oh, is Myra going away
I thought she was going to live here
always
Oh no
Myra has her own home where she must spend
part of her time, though grandfather and I hope to have her here a good
deal too. It is easy to manage now Miss Fenmore is with her always
Geraldine
as soon as you are able to walk about a little I
want you to come downstairs with me to see the lions
Yes
but you did give them my message,
Myra
Of course I did, and they sent you back their love, and they are very
glad you're better, and they want you very much indeed to come to see
them
actings
except
in the meantime
what we want you to do is to get _quite_ strong and well, so
put all troubling thoughts out of your head and be happy with your kind
friends
next time
I have a fancy, Myra
that something is going to happen. My
lion has been so queer to-day -- I see a look on his face as if he knew
something
I think they always look rather like that
But I
suppose something must happen soon. I shall be going home next week
Next week
Oh, Myra
Do you mind going home
I mean, are you sorry to go
I'm always sorry to leave grandpapa and grandmamma
and the
lions, and this funny old house. But I'm very happy at home, and I shall
like it still better with Miss Fenmore. No, I wouldn't be unhappy -- I'd
be very glad to think of seeing father and mother and my little brothers
again -- I wouldn't be unhappy, except for -- you know, Geraldine -- for
leaving you
Dear Myra
But you mustn't mind about me. I'm going to
try
After all
more than a quarter of
the time that father and mamma have to be away is gone. And perhaps in
the summer holidays I shall see Haddie
I wish
I have brought you down a letter that has just come by the second post,
Geraldine, dear
a letter from South America
Oh, thank you
Myra
No, no
it's nothing wrong. Read it, or ask Miss
Fenmore -- she reads writing quicker. Oh, Myra, isn't it beautiful
Geraldine, Geraldine, I can't believe it
</text>
