<text>
Life of Lord Clive
My dear Niece
Since you, by your own foolish conduct and
opposition to all our wishes, separated yourself from your family, and
went your own way in life, I have heard little of you, as the death of
your parents so shortly afterwards deprived me of all sources of
information. I regret to hear of the loss which you have suffered. I
have already taken the necessary steps to carry out your wishes. I
yesterday dined with a friend, who is one of the directors of the
Honorable East India Company, and at my request he has kindly placed a
writership in the Company at your son's service. He will have to come
up to London to see the board, next week, and will probably have to
embark for India a fortnight later. I shall be glad if he will take up
his abode with me, during the intervening time. I shall be glad also
if you will favour me with a statement of your income and expenses,
with such details as you may think necessary. I inclose four
five-pound bank notes, in order that your son may obtain such garments
as may be immediately needful for his appearance before the board of
directors, and for his journey to London. I remain, my dear niece,
yours sincerely,

"Joshua Tufton
It is cruel
cruel to take you away from us,
and send you to India, where you will most likely die of fever, or be
killed by a tiger, or stabbed by one of those horrid natives, in a
fortnight
Not so bad as that, Mother, I hope
other people have managed to
live out there, and have come back safe
Yes
I know how you will come back. A
little, yellow, shrivelled up old man with no liver, and a dreadful
temper, and a black servant. I know what it will be
That's looking too far ahead altogether, Mother. You take the two
extremes. If I don't die in a fortnight, I am to live to be a
shrivelled old man. I'd rather take a happy medium, and look forward
to coming back before my liver is all gone, or my temper all
destroyed, with lots of money to make you and the girls comfortable.

"There is only one thing. I wish it had been a cadetship, instead of a
writership
That is my only comfort
If it had been a
cadetship, I should have written to say that I would not let you go.
It is bad enough as it is; but if you had had to fight, I could not
have borne it
And I'm sure, Mother
Uncle means most kindly. He sends
twenty pounds, you see, and says that that is for immediate
necessities; so I have no doubt he means to help to get my outfit, or
at any rate to advance money, which I can repay him out of my salary.
The letter is rather stiff and businesslike, of course, but I suppose
that's his way; and you see he asks about your income, so perhaps he
means to help for the girls' education. I should go away very happy,
if I knew that you would be able to get on comfortably. Of course it's
a long way off, Mother, and I should have liked to stay at home, to be
a help to you and the girls; but one can't have all one wishes. As far
as I am concerned, myself, I would rather go out as a writer there,
where I shall see strange sights and a strange country, than be stuck
all my life at a desk in London.

"What is Uncle like
He is a short man, my dear, rather stiff and pompous, with a very
stiff cravat. He used to give me his finger to shake, when I was a
child, and I was always afraid of him. He married a most disagreeable
woman, only a year or two before I married, myself. But I heard she
died not very long afterwards
So you are my grandnephew
Yes, Uncle
and we are very much obliged
to you, Mamma and I, for your kindness
Humph
And how is it
that you were not here yesterday?
My niece's letter led me to expect that you would arrive yesterday
We came as fast as we could, Uncle
but of course
the time depends upon the wind. The captain tells me that he has been
as much as three weeks coming round
You are tall
and thin, very thin. You have a loose way of standing,
which I don't approve of
I'm sorry I'm loose, sir
if you do not
approve of it; but you see, running about and playing games make one
lissome. I suppose, now that's all over and I am going to spend my
time in writing, I shall get stiffer
I hope so, I hope so
I like to
see young men with a sedate bearing.

"And you left my niece and grandnieces well, I hope
Quite well, thank you, sir
but, of course, a good
deal upset with parting from me
Yes
I suppose so. Women are so emotional. Now
there's nothing I object to more than emotion
I always dine at two o'clock; but as probably you are hungry -- I have
observed that boys always are hungry -- some food will be served you in
the next room. I had already given my housekeeper orders. No doubt you
will find it prepared. After that, you may like to take a walk in the
streets. I have supper at nine, by which hour you will, of course,
have returned
Kind is as kind does after all, and I expect the old gentleman is not
as crusty as he looks
So you have soon become tired of the streets of London, Grandnephew
There is not much to see, sir. The lamps do not burn very brightly,
and the fog is coming on. I thought that, if it grew thicker, I might
lose my way, and in that case I might not have been in at the hour you
named for supper
Humph
So your mother has taught you
to be punctual to meals. But, no; boys' appetites teach them to be
punctual then, if never at any other time.

"And why, sir
Did my niece not write to me
before
I don't know, sir
I suppose she did not like -- that
is, she didn't think -- that is
Think, sir! Like, sir
What right had she either to
think or to like? Her duty clearly was to have made me acquainted, at
once, with all the circumstances. I suppose I had a right to say
whether I approved of my grandnieces going tramping about the world as
governesses, or not. It isn't because a woman chooses, by her folly,
to separate herself from her family, that they are to be deprived of
their rights in a matter of this kind. Eh, sir, what do you say to
that
I don't know, sir
I have never thought the matter
over
Why, sir, suppose she had made you a tinker, sir, and you turned out
a thief, as likely as not you would have done, and you'd been hung,
sir, what then? Am I to have such discredit as this brought upon me,
without my having any option in the matter
I suppose not, sir
I hope I shouldn't have turned
out a thief, even if I'd been a tinker; but perhaps it was because my
mother feared that this might be the case, that she did give you the
option
It is well she did so
very well. If she had not
done so, I should have known the reason why. And you, sir, do you like
the thought of going to India
Yes, Uncle, I like the thought very much, though I would rather, if I
may say so, have gone as a cadet
I thought so
I was sure of it. You
wanted to wear a red coat and a sword, and to swagger about the
streets of Calcutta, instead of making an honorable living and
acquiring a fortune
I don't think, sir
that the idea of the red coat and
sword entered into my mind; but it seemed to me the choice of a life
of activity and adventure, against one as a mere clerk
Had you entered the military service of the Company, even if you
didn't get shot, you could only hope to rise to the command of a
regiment, ranking with a civilian very low down on the list. The
stupidity of boys is unaccountable. It's a splendid career, sir, that
I have opened to you; but if I'd known that you had no ambition, I
would have put you into my own counting house; though there, that
wouldn't have done either, for I know you would have blotted the
ledger, and turned all the accounts topsy-turvy.

"And now, sir, supper is ready
Humph
it is lucky they did not find out what a
fool you were, at once. I was rather afraid that even the two minutes
would do it. After dinner, I will send my clerk round with you, to get
the few things which are necessary for your voyage.

"I suppose you will want to, what you call amuse yourself, to see the
beasts at Exeter Change, and the playhouses. Here are two sovereigns.
Don't get into loose company, and don't get drinking, sir, or out of
the house you go
Hold your tongue, sir. I am doing what is right; a thing, sir, Joshua
Tufton always has done, and doesn't expect to be thanked for it. All I
ask you is, that if you rob the Company's till and are hung, don't
mention that you are related to me
It is awful
positively awful. How much it
will all come to, goodness only knows; three or four hundred pounds,
at least
My dear Uncle
you've been so awfully kind to me, that I
really do not like to trespass upon you. I am positively frightened at
the outfit your clerk has ordered. It is enormous. I'm sure I can't
want so many things, possibly, and I would really rather take a much
smaller outfit; and then, as I want them, I can have more things out
from England, and pay for them myself
You don't suppose
that I'm going to have
my nephew go out to India with the outfit of a cabin boy. I ordered
that you were to have the proper outfit of a gentleman, and I
requested my clerk to order a considerable portion of the things to be
made of a size which will allow for your growing, for you look to me
as if you were likely enough to run up into a lanky giant, of six feet
high. I suppose he has done as I ordered him. Don't let me hear
another word on the subject
My dear mother, my dear girls, this is an unexpected pleasure,
indeed! Why, what has brought you here
Didn't you know we were coming, Charlie? Didn't Uncle tell you
Not a word
I never dreamt of such a thing. What, has
he called you up here to stay till I go
Oh, my dear, he has been so kind
and so funny! He
wrote me such a scolding letter, just as if I had been a very naughty
little girl. He said he wasn't going to allow me to bring disgrace
upon him, by living in wretched lodgings at Yarmouth, nor by his
grandnieces being sent out as governesses. So he ordered me at
once -- ordered me Charlie, as if I had no will of my own -- to give up
the lodgings, and to take our places in the coach, yesterday morning.
He said we were not to shame him by appearing here in rags, and he
sent me a hundred pounds, every penny of which, he said, was to be
laid out in clothes. As to the future, he said it would be his duty to
see that I brought no further disgrace upon the family
Yes, and he's been just as kind to me, Mother. As I told you when I
wrote, he had ordered an enormous outfit, which will, I am sure, cost
hundreds of pounds. He makes me go to the playhouses, and all sorts of
amusements; and all the time he has been so kind he scolds, and
grumbles, and predicts that I shall be hanged
I'm sure you won't
How can he say such a thing
He doesn't mean it
It's only his way. He will go
on just the same way with you, I have no doubt; but you mustn't mind,
you know, and mustn't laugh, but must look quite grave and serious.

"Ah! Here he is.

"Oh, Uncle, this is kind of you
Hold your tongue, sir
and try and learn not to
speak to your elders, unless you are addressed.

"Niece Mary
I am glad to
see you again. You are not so much changed as I expected.

"And these are my grandnieces, Elizabeth and Kate, though why Kate I
don't know. It is a fanciful name, and new to the family, and I am
surprised that you didn't call her Susanna, after your grandmother
I suppose I ought to kiss them. Girls always expect to be kissed at
every opportunity.

"What are you laughing at, grandniece
I don't think girls expect to be kissed, except by people they like
but we do like kissing you, Uncle
because you have been so
kind to Charlie, and have brought us up to see him again
You have disarranged my white tie, Niece
Niece Mary, I fear that you have not taught your daughters to
restrain their emotions, and there is nothing so dreadful as emotional
women
Perhaps I have not taken so much pains with their education, in that
way, as in some others
But of course,
Uncle, if you object to be kissed, the girls will abstain from doing
so
No
It is the duty of nieces to kiss
their uncles, in moderation -- in moderation, mind -- and it is the duty
of the uncles to receive those salutations, and I do not know that the
duty is altogether an unpleasant one. I am, myself, unaccustomed to be
kissed, but it is an operation to which I may accustom myself, in
time
I never heard it called an operation, Uncle
but I now understand the meaning of the phrase of a man's undergoing
a painful operation. I used to think it meant cutting off a leg, or
something of that sort, but I see it's much worse
I am afraid, Grandniece, that you intend to be sarcastic. This is a
hateful habit in a man, worse in a woman. Cure yourself of it as
speedily as possible, or Heaven help the unhappy man who may some day
be your husband.

"And now
ring the bell. The housekeeper will show you to
your rooms. My nephew will tell you what are the hours for meals. Of
course, you will want to be gadding about with him. You will
understand that there is no occasion to be in to meals; but if you are
not present when they are upon the table, you will have to wait for
the next. I cannot have my house turned upside down, by meals being
brought up at all sorts of hours.

"You must not expect me, Niece, to be at your beck and call during the
day, as I have my business to attend to; but of an evening I shall, of
course, feel it my duty to accompany you to the playhouse. It will not
do for you to be going about with only the protection of a
hare-brained boy
Tomorrow you are going to sail
and to start in life on
your own account, and I trust that you will, as far as possible, be
steady, and do your duty to your employers. You will understand that,
although the pay of a writer is not high, there are opportunities for
advancement. The Company have the monopoly of the trade of India, and
in addition to their great factories at Bombay, Calcutta, and Madras,
they have many other trading stations. Those who, by their good
conduct, attract the attention of their superiors, rise to positions
of trust and emolument. There are many who think that the Company
will, in time, enlarge its operations; and as they do so, superior
opportunities will offer themselves; and since the subject of India
has been prominently brought before my notice, I have examined the
question, and am determined to invest somewhat largely in the stock of
the Company, a step which will naturally give me some influence with
the board. That influence I shall, always supposing that your conduct
warrants it, exercise on your behalf.

"As we are now at war with France, and it is possible that the vessel
in which you are proceeding may be attacked by the way, I have thought
it proper that you should be armed. You will, therefore, find in your
cabin a brace of pistols, a rifle, and a double-barrel shotgun: which
last, I am informed, is a useful weapon at close quarters. Should your
avocations in India permit your doing so, you will find them useful in
the pursuit of game. I hope that you will not be extravagant; but as a
matter of business I find that it is useful to be able to give
entertainments, to persons who may be in a position to benefit or
advance you. I have, therefore, arranged that you will draw from the
factor at Madras the sum of two hundred pounds, annually, in addition
to your pay. It is clearly my duty to see that my nephew has every
fair opportunity for making his way.

"Now, go upstairs at once to your mother. I have letters to write, and
am too busy for talking
Well, Mother
thank goodness you will be all right now, anyhow. No
doubt Uncle intends to do something for you and the girls, though he
has said nothing at present, beyond the fact that you are not to be in
wretched lodgings, and they are not to go out as governesses. But even
if he should change his mind, and I don't think he ever does that, I
shall be able to help you.

"Oh, he is kind, isn't he
Well, youngster
take your last
look at the smoke of London, for it will be a good many years before
you see it again, my lad. You've blue skies and clear ones where
you're going, except when it rains, and when it does there is no
mistake about it
I'm not a Londoner
and have no regret for
leaving its smoke. Do you think we shall make a quick voyage
I hope so
but it all depends upon the wind. A
finer ship never floated than the Lizzie Anderson; but the Company
don't build their vessels for speed, and it's no use trying to run,
when you meet a Frenchman. Those fellows understand how to build
ships, and if they could fight them as well as they build them, we
should not long be mistress of the sea
That gentleman there, walking on the other side of the deck, as if
not only the ship but the river and banks on both sides belonged to
him, is one of the council. That is his wife over there, with a
companion holding her shawl for her. That pretty little woman, next to
her, is the wife of Captain Tibbets, the tall man leaning against the
bulwarks. Those two sisters are going out to keep house for their
uncle, one of the leading men in Madras; and, I suppose, to get
husbands, which they will most likely do before they have been there
many weeks. They look very nice girls.

"But you soon get acquainted with them all. It is surprising how soon
people get friendly on board ship, though, as a rule, they quarrel
like cats and dogs before they get to the end of it
What do they quarrel about
Oh, about anything or nothing
They all get
heartily sick of each other, and of the voyage, and they quarrel
because they have nothing else to do. You will see, we shall be as
happy a party as possible till we get about as far as the Cape. After
that, the rows will begin, and by the time we get to India, half the
people won't speak to each other.

"Have you been down the river before? That's Gravesend. I see the
captain is getting ready to anchor. So, I suppose the tide has nearly
run out. If this wind holds, we shall be fairly out at sea when you
get up tomorrow.

"You snore, I hope
No, sir, I don't think so
I hoped you did
because I'm told I do, sometimes.
However, as I usually smoke a cigar on deck, the last thing, I hope
you will be fairly asleep before I am. If at any time I get very bad,
and keep you awake, you must shake me
It's better to do that
than to keep on
waking you, for the next four or five months
I fancy our friend over there is a French privateer
and I should not be surprised if we found ourselves
exchanging shots with her, before many hours are over
But she's a little bit of a thing
Surely she would
never venture to attack a ship like ours
It's the size of the guns, not the size of the ship, that counts, my
boy. She has the advantage of being able to sail three feet to our
two; and probably, small as she is, she carries half as many men again
as we do. However, we carry heavy metal, and can give a good account
of ourselves. Those thirty-twos will astonish our friend, if she comes
within range
I thought so
I fancied that fellow
wasn't alone. He would hardly have ventured to try his strength with
us, if he had been. Send a man up to the tops, and let him see what he
can make her out to be. I can only see her topmasts, but I can make
out no yards
She will not be up for two hours, yet
It will be
getting dark, then. It is not likely they will engage at night, but
they will keep close, and show their teeth at daybreak
Why don't you put on more sail, sir
My wife, sir, objects to the sound of
firearms, and I must really beg that you will increase your speed. As
it is, we are losing rather than gaining upon that vessel behind. The
duty of the ships of the Company is to try not to fight
If they can help it
Not to fight, if
they can help it, Mr. Ashmead. But unfortunately, the choice upon the
present occasion lies with the gentlemen yonder, and not with us. It
is not of the slightest use adding to the sail we carry, for at our
very best speed, those schooners could sail round and round us. As
night comes on I intend to shorten sail, and put the ship into
fighting trim. In the morning I shall again increase it, but I shall
not make any attempt to escape a combat which it depends entirely on
those privateers to bring on, or not, as they choose. I am sorry that
Mrs. Ashmead should be exposed to the unpleasantness of listening to
the explosion of firearms, and that my other lady passengers should be
exposed to the danger which cannot but arise, more or less, from a
naval conflict.

"However, I hope, sir, that there need be no great anxiety as to the
result. The Company has given us a heavy armament, and you may be sure
that we shall all do our best
Well, youngster
so we're likely to have a brush. I see
you have a couple of gun cases under your berth. You are a good deal
better provided than most lads who go out as writers.

"Ah! That's a beautiful piece of yours
a small bore and a heavy
barrel, and beautifully finished. With a greased patch and a heavy
charge, that ought to carry a bullet far and true. Have you had any
practice
Not with this gun, sir. I used, sometimes, to practise shooting at
gulls with a musket, on board the cutter my father commanded; and I
got to be a fair shot with it
Then you ought to be able to do good work, with such a piece as that.
What is in the other case?

"Ah! That's a beauty, too
Made extra strong and heavy, I see, so as to
carry bullets. You'll find your shoulder ache, at first; but you'll
get accustomed to it, in time. I'm always in favour of heavy barrels.
They shoot stronger and straighter than your light guns, are not so
liable to get bent or bruised, if a stupid servant drops one across a
stone; and, after all, two or three pounds difference in weight does
not make any material difference, when you're accustomed to it.
Although, I grant, a heavy gun does not come quite so quickly up to
the shoulder, for a snap shot
Now, Peters
you take the double barrel. I will use
the rifle. Mine will come into play first, but, as my uncle said when
he gave it me, yours will do most execution at close quarters
Do not you think
that they
are likely to try and board us tonight
No
These privateers generally depend upon their
long guns. They know that we shall be on the watch all night, and
that, in a hand-to-hand fight, they would lose a considerable number
of men; while by keeping at a distance, and maintaining a fire with
their long guns, they rely upon crippling their opponents; and then,
ranging up under their stern, pouring in a fire at close quarters
until they surrender.

"Another thing is that they prefer daylight, as they can then see
whether any other vessel is approaching. Were one of our cruisers to
hear a cannonade in the night, she would come down and take them
unaware. No, I think you will see that at daylight, if the coast is
clear, they will begin
The rascals are well within range
See,
they are taking off canvas again. They intend to keep at that
distance, and hammer away at us. Just what I thought would be their
tactics
It is lucky the ladies were sent into the hold
That shot has gone right through their cabin.

"Now, my lads, have you got the sights well upon them? Fire
A foot more, and you would have cut his foremast asunder
There is some damage done
There is a good deal of running about on deck there
They don't like it
They see that they
cannot play the game they expected, and that they've got to take as
well as to give. Now it depends upon the sort of stuff their captains
are made of, whether they give it up at once, or come straight up to
close quarters.

"Ah! They mean fighting
If it were not that I do not wish to sacrifice any of the lives on
board, unnecessarily
I would let them come
alongside and try boarding. We have a strong crew, and with the sixty
soldiers we should give them such a reception as they do not dream of.
However, I will keep them off, if I can.

"Now, Mr. James
I propose to give
that vessel to leeward a dose. They are keeping about abreast, and by
the course they are making will range alongside at about a cable's
length. When I give the word, pour a broadside with the guns to port
upon that weather schooner.

"At that moment, gentlemen
I
shall rely upon you to pick off the steersman of the other vessel, and
to prevent another taking his place. She steers badly now, and the
moment her helm is free, she'll run up into the wind. As she does so,
I shall bear off, run across her bow, and rake her deck with grape as
we pass.

"Will you, Mr. Barlow, order your men to be in readiness to open fire
with musketry upon her, as we pass
Let all hands lie down on deck
They will open
with their broadside guns, as they come up. When I give the word, let
all the guns on the port side be trained at the foot of her mainmast,
and fire as you get the line. On the starboard side, lie down till I
give the word
That will do
Now we may keep her on her
course. They have had more than enough of it
I should think you could take them both, Captain Thompson
They are as good as taken
and would be
forced to haul down their flags, if I were to wear round and continue
the fight. But they would be worse than useless to me. I should not
know what to do with their crews, and should have to cripple myself by
putting very strong prize crews upon them, and so run the risk of
losing my own ship and cargo.

"No, my business is to trade and not to fight. If any one meddle with
me, I am ready to take my own part; but the Company would not thank
me, if I were to risk the safety of this ship and her valuable cargo
for the sake of sending home a couple of prizes, which might be
recaptured as they crossed the bay, and would not fetch any great sum
if they got safely in port
I hope that we sha'n't find the French in Madras, when we get there
The French in Madras
Why, sir,
there's no chance of that, is there
A very great chance
Don't you know that they
captured the place three years ago
No, sir; I'm ashamed to say that I know nothing at all about India,
except that the Company have trading stations at Bombay, Madras, and
Calcutta
I will tell you about it
It is as well that you
should understand the position of affairs, at the place to which you
are going. You must know that the Company hold the town of Madras, and
a few square miles of land around it, as tenants of the Nawab of the
Carnatic, which is the name of that part of India. The French have a
station at Pondicherry, eighty-six miles to the sou'west of Madras.
This is a larger and more important town than Madras, and of course
the greatest rivalry prevails between the English and French.

"The French are much more powerful than the English, and exercise a
predominating influence throughout the Carnatic. The French governor,
Monsieur Dupleix, is a man of very great ability, and far-seeing
views. He has a considerable force of French soldiers at his command,
and by the aid which he has given to the nawab, upon various
occasions, he has obtained a predominating influence in his councils.

"When war was declared between England and France, in the year '44,
the English squadron under Commodore Barnet was upon the coast, and
the Company sent out orders to Mr. Morse, the governor of Madras, to
use every effort to destroy the French settlement, of whose rising
power they felt the greatest jealousy. Dupleix, seeing the force that
could be brought against him, and having no French ships on the
station, although he was aware that a fleet under Admiral La
Bourdonnais was fitting out and would arrive shortly, dreaded the
contest, and proposed to Mr. Morse that the Indian colonies of the two
nations should remain neutral, and take no part in the struggle in
which their respective countries were engaged. Mr. Morse, however, in
view of the orders he had received from the Company, was unable to
agree to this.

"Dupleix then applied to the nawab who, at his request, forbade his
European tenants to make war on land with each other, an order which
they were obliged to obey.

"In July, 1746, La Bourdonnais arrived with his fleet, and chased the
small English squadron from the Indian seas. Dupleix now changed his
tactics, and regardless of the injunction which he himself had
obtained from the nawab, he determined to crush the English at Madras.
He supplied the fleet with men and money, and ordered the admiral to
sail for Madras. The fleet arrived before the town on the 14th of
September; landed a portion of its troops, six hundred in number, with
two guns, a short distance along the coast; and on the following day
disembarked the rest, consisting of a thousand French troops, four
hundred Sepoys, and three hundred African troops, and summoned Madras
to surrender.

"Madras was in no position to offer any effectual resistance. The fort
was weak and indefensible. The English inhabitants consisted only of a
hundred civilians, and two hundred soldiers. Governor Morse
endeavoured to obtain, from the nawab, the protection which he had
before granted to Dupleix, a demand which the nawab at once refused.

"I was there at the time, and quite agreed with the governor that it
was useless to attempt resistance to the force brought against us. The
governor, therefore, surrendered on the 21st. The garrison, and all
the civilians in the place not in the service of the Company, were to
become prisoners of war; while those in the regular service of the
Company were free to depart, engaging only not to carry arms against
the French until exchanged. These were the official conditions; but La
Bourdonnais, influenced by jealousy of Dupleix, and by the promise of
a bribe of forty thousand pounds, made a secret condition with Mr.
Morse, by which he bound himself to restore Madras in the future, upon
the payment of a large sum of money. This agreement Dupleix, whose
heart was set upon the total expulsion of the English, refused to
ratify.

"A good many of us considered that, by this breach of the agreement,
we were released from our parole not to carry arms against the French;
and a dozen or so of us, in various disguises, escaped from Madras and
made our way to Fort Saint David, a small English settlement twelve
miles south of Pondicherry. I made the journey with a young fellow
named Clive, who had come out as a writer about two years before. He
was a fine young fellow; as unfitted as you are, I should think,
Marryat, for the dull life of a writer, but full of energy and
courage.

"At Fort Saint David we found two hundred English soldiers, and a
hundred Sepoys, and a number of us, having nothing to do at our own
work, volunteered to aid in the defence.

"After Dupleix had conquered Madras, the nawab awoke to the fact of
the danger of allowing the French to become all-powerful, by the
destruction of the English, and ordered Dupleix to restore the place.
Dupleix refused, and the nawab sent his son Maphuz Khan to invest the
town. Dupleix at once despatched a detachment of two hundred and
thirty French, and seven hundred Sepoys, commanded by an engineer
officer named Paradis, to raise the siege.

"On the 2nd of November, the garrison of Madras sallied out and drove
away the cavalry of Maphuz Khan; and on the 4th, Paradis attacked his
army, and totally defeated it.

"This, lads, was a memorable battle. It is the first time that
European and Indian soldiers have come into contest, and it shows how
immense is the superiority of Europeans. What Paradis did then opens
all sorts of possibilities for the future; and it may be that either
we or the French are destined to rise, from mere trading companies, to
be rulers of Indian states.

"Such, I know, is the opinion of young Clive, who is a very
long-headed and ambitious young fellow. I remember his saying to me
one night, when we were, with difficulty, holding our own in the
trenches, that if we had but a man of energy and intelligence at the
head of our affairs in Southern India, we might, ere many years
passed, be masters of the Carnatic. I own that it appears to me more
likely that the French will be in that position, and that we shall not
have a single establishment left there; but time will show.

"Having defeated Maphuz Khan, Dupleix resolved to make a great effort
to expel us from Fort Saint David, our sole footing left in Southern
India; and he despatched an army of nine hundred Frenchmen, six
hundred Sepoys, and a hundred Africans, with six guns and mortars,
against us. They were four to one against us, and we had hot work, I
can tell you. Four times they tried to storm the place, and each time
we drove them back; till at last they gave it up in disgust, at the
end of June, having besieged us for six months.

"Soon after this Admiral Boscawen, with a great fleet and an army,
arrived from England; and on 19th of August besieged Pondicherry. The
besieging army was six thousand strong; of whom three thousand, seven
hundred and twenty were English. But Pondicherry resisted bravely, and
after two months the besiegers were forced to retire, having lost, in
attacks or by fever, one thousand and sixty-five men.

"At the end of the siege, in which I had served as a medical officer,
I returned to England. A few months after I left, peace was made
between England and France, and by its terms Dupleix had to restore
Madras to the English. I hear that fighting has been going on ever
since, the English and French engaging as auxiliaries to rival native
princes; and especially that there was some hot fighting round
Devikota. However, we shall hear about that when we get there
And what do you think will be the result of it all, Doctor Rae
I think that undoubtedly, sooner or later, either the French or
ourselves will be driven out. Which it will be remains to be seen. If
we are expelled, the effect of our defeat is likely to operate
disastrously at Calcutta, if not at Bombay. The French will be
regarded as a powerful people, whom it is necessary to conciliate,
while we shall be treated as a nation of whom they need have no fear,
and whom they can oppress accordingly.

"If we are successful, and absolutely obtain possession of the
Carnatic, our trade will vastly increase, fresh posts and commands of
all sorts will be established, and there will be a fine career open to
you young fellows, in the service of the Company
Had it not been for this
I
would have rigged a jury-mast and proceeded; but I can't stop the leak
from the inside, without shifting a great portion of the cargo, and
our hold is so full that this would be difficult in the extreme. But I
own that I do not like delaying a day longer than necessary, here. The
natives have a very bad reputation, besides which it is suspected that
one, if not more, pirates have their rendezvous in these seas. Several
of our merchantmen have mysteriously disappeared, without any gale
having taken place which would account for their loss.

"The captain of a ship which reached England, two or three days before
we sailed, brought news that when she was within a fortnight's sail of
the Cape, the sound of guns was heard one night, and that afterwards a
ship was seen on fire, low down on the horizon. He reached the spot
soon after daybreak, and found charred spars and other wreckage; but
though he cruised about all day, he could find no signs of any boats.
Complaints have been made to government, and I hear that there is an
intention of sending two or three sloops out here to hunt the pirates
up. But that will be of no use to us
Now
I feel
comfortable. We can defend ourselves here against all the pirates of
the South Seas. If they don't come, we shall only have lost our two
days' work, and shall have easy minds for the remainder of our stay
here; which we should not have had, if we had been at the mercy of the
first of those scoundrels who happened to hear of our being laid up
I have fancied, sir, for some time, that I heard noises. It seems to
me like the splash of a very large number of oars
I have heard nothing
but you might hear sounds
down there, coming along on the water, before I do. I will go down to
the water's edge, and listen
You are right, Johnson, there is something going on out at sea,
beyond the mouth of the bay. I will call the captain, at once
Had it not been for that
they would long ago have been
here. I expect that they hoped to catch us napping, but the wind fell
and delayed them. They little dream how well we are prepared. Did they
know of our fort here, I question whether they would have ventured
upon attacking us at all, but would have waited till we were well at
sea, and then our chance would have been a slight one.

"Well, gentlemen, you will allow that the two days were not wasted. I
think, now, the pirates are well inside the bay. In half an hour we
shall have light enough to see them.

"There, listen! There's the splash of their anchors. There, again! I
fancy there are two ships moored broadside on, stem and stern
Just as I thought
They have guessed that
some of us will be ashore, and will make a rush upon us here, when the
ships open fire
Fire
Steady, boys
don't fire a shot till I
give the word, and then aim low
Make way, my hearties. Let us come to the front, and give them a
dose
Fire at the masts
Cripple her if you
can. Let all with muskets and rifles try to keep men out of the
rigging
Sweep her decks with grape
and she's ours.

"Mr. James, take all the men that can be spared from the guns, man the
boats, and make a dash for the ship at once. I see the men are leaving
her. They're crowding over the side into their boats. Most likely
they'll set fire to her. Set all your strength putting it out. We will
attend to the other boats
Man overboard
Now
don't struggle, else I'll let you go. Keep quiet, and
I can hold you up till we're picked up
Keep quite quiet, else I'll leave go
How refreshingly healthy and well you look
I was something like that,
when I first came out here, though you'd hardly think it now. Eight
years of stewing, in this horrible hole, takes the life and spirits
out of anyone.

"However, there's one consolation. After eight or ten years of quill
driving in a stuffy room, one becomes a little more one's own master,
and one's duties begin to be a little more varied and pleasant. One
gets a chance of being sent up, occasionally, with goods; or on some
message or other to one of the native princes, and then one gets
treated like a prince, and sees that India is not necessarily so
detestable as we have contrived to make it here. The only bearable
time of one's life is the few hours after dinner, when one can sit in
a chair in the veranda, and smoke and look at the sea. Some of the
fellows play billiards and cards; but if you will take my advice, you
won't go in for that sort of thing. It takes a lot out of one, and
fellows that do it are, between you and me, in the bad books of the
bigwigs. Besides, they lose money, get into debt, and all sorts of
mischief comes of it
Thank you
I, for one, will certainly take your
advice. I suppose one can buy ponies here. I should think a good ride
every morning early, before work, would do one good
Yes, it is not a bad thing
A good many fellows do
it, when they first come out here. But after a time they lose their
energy, you see, though some do keep it up.

"What appetites you fellows have! It does one good to see you eat
I have not the least idea what we are eating
but it's really very nice, whatever it is. But there seems
an immense quantity of pepper, or hot stuff of some kind or other;
which one would have thought, in this tremendous heat, would have made
one hotter instead of cooler
Yes
No doubt all this pepper and curry
do heat the blood; but you see, it is done to tempt the appetite. Meat
here is fearfully coarse and tasteless. Our appetites are poor, and
were it not for these hot sauces, we should eat next to nothing.

"Will you have some bananas
They are nice and cool
but they have
very little taste
Most of our fruit is tasteless
except, indeed, the
mango and mangostine. They are equal to any English fruit in flavour,
but I would give them all for a good English apple. Its sharpness
would be delicious here.

"And now, as you have done, if you will come and sit in the veranda of
my room, we will smoke a cigar and have something cool to drink; and I
will answer, as well as I can, the questions you've asked me about the
state of things here
Madras isn't much of a place, now; but you should have seen it before
the French had it. Our chiefs think of nothing but trade, and care
nothing how squalid and miserable is the place in which they make
money. The French have larger ideas. They transformed this place;
cleared away that portion of the native town which surrounded the
factory and fort, made wide roads, formed an esplanade, improved and
strengthened the fortifications, forbade the natives to throw all
their rubbish and offal on the beach; and made, in fact, a decent
place of it. We hardly knew it when we came back, and whatever the
Company may have thought, we were thoroughly grateful for the French
occupation.

"One good result, too, is that our quarters have been greatly
improved; for not only did the French build several new houses, but at
present all the big men, the council and so on, are still living at
Fort Saint David, which is still the seat of administration. So you
see, we have got better quarters; we are rid of the stenches and
nuisances of the native town; the plague of flies which made our life
a burden is abated; and we can sit here and enjoy the cool sea breeze,
without its being poisoned before it reaches us by the heaped up filth
on the beach.

"It must have wrung Dupleix's heart to give up the place over which
they expended so much pains, and after all it didn't do away with the
fighting. In April we sent a force from Fort Saint David -- before we
came back here -- four hundred and thirty white soldiers and a thousand
Sepoys, under the command of Captain Cope, to aid a fellow who had
been turned out of the Rajahship of Tanjore. I believe he was a great
blackguard, and the man who had taken his place was an able ruler
liked by the people
Then why should we interfere on behalf of the other
My dear Marryat
you are very
young yet, and quite new to India. You will see, after a time, that
right has nothing at all to do with the dealings of the Company, in
their relations to the native princes. We are, at present, little
people living here on sufferance, among a lot of princes and powers
who are enemies and rivals of each other. We have, moreover, as
neighbours, another European colony considerably stronger than we are.
The consequence is, the question of right cannot enter into the
considerations of the Company. It may be said that, for every petty
kingdom in Southern India, there are at least two pretenders, very
often half a dozen. So far we have not meddled much in their quarrels,
but the French have been much more active that way. They always side
with one or other of these pretenders, and when they get the man they
support into power, of course he repays them for their assistance. In
this manner, as I shall explain to you presently, they have virtually
made themselves masters of the Carnatic, outside the walls of Fort
Saint David and this place.

"Well, our people thought to take a leaf out of the French book, and
as the ex-rajah offered us, in payment for our aid, the possession of
Devikota, a town at the mouth of the river Kolrun, a place likely to
be of great use to us, we agreed to assist him. Cope, with the land
forces, had marched to the border of the Tanjore territory, and the
guns and heavy baggage were to go by sea.

"But, unfortunately, we had a tremendous gale just after they sailed.
The admiral's flagship, the Namur, of seventy-four guns; the Pembroke,
of sixty; and the hospital ship, Apollo, were totally lost; and the
rest of the fleet scattered in all directions. Cope entered the
Tanjore territory, but found the whole population attached to the new
rajah. It was useless for him, therefore, to march upon Tanjore, which
is a really strong town, so he marched down to Devikota, where he
hoped to find some of the fleet. Not a ship, however, was to be seen,
and as without guns Cope could do nothing, he returned here, as we had
just taken possession again.

"Then he went to Fort Saint David, and there was a great discussion
among the bigwigs. It was clear, from what Cope said, that our man had
not a friend in his own country. Still, as he pointed out, Devikota
was a most important place for us. Neither Madras nor Fort Saint David
has a harbour; and Devikota, therefore, where the largest ships could
run up the river and anchor, would be of immense utility to us.

"As this was really the reason for which we had gone into the affair,
it was decided to repeat the attempt. By this time Major Lawrence, who
commands the whole of the Company's forces in India, and who had been
taken a prisoner in one of the French sorties at the siege of
Pondicherry, had been released. So he was put at the head of the
expedition; and the whole of the Company's English troops, eight
hundred in all, including the artillery; and fifteen hundred Sepoys,
started on board ship for Devikota. I must tell you that Lawrence is a
first-rate fellow, the only really good officer we have out here, and
the affair couldn't have been in the hands of a better man.

"The ships arrived safely at the mouth of the Kolrun, and the troops
were landed on the bank of the river opposite the town, where Lawrence
intended to erect his batteries; as, in the first place, the shore
behind the town was swampy, and in the second the Rajah of Tanjore,
who had got news of our coming, had his army encamped there to support
the place. Lawrence got his guns in position and fired away, across
the river, at the earthen wall of the town. In three days he had a
breach. The enemy didn't return our fire, but occupied themselves in
throwing up an entrenchment across the side of the fort.

"We made a raft and crossed the river, but the enemy's matchlock men
peppered us so severely that we lost thirty English and fifty Sepoys
in getting over. The enemy's entrenchment was not finished, but in
front of it was a deep rivulet, which had to be crossed.

"Lawrence gave the command of the storming party to Clive. He is one
of our fellows; a queer, restless sort of chap, who was really no good
here, for he hated his work and always seemed to think himself a
martyr. He was not a favourite among us, for he was often gloomy and
discontented, though he had his good points. He was straightforward
and manly, and he put down two or three fellows here, who had been
given to bully the young ones, in a way that astonished them.

"He would never have made a good servant of the Company, for he so
hated his work that, when he had been out here about a year, he tried
to blow out his brains. He snapped the pistol twice at his head, but
it didn't go off, though it was loaded all right. Strange, wasn't it?
So he came to the conclusion that he wasn't meant to kill himself, and
went on living till something should turn up
Yes
Doctor Rae spoke to us about him during the
voyage. He knew him at the siege of Fort Saint David, and
Pondicherry
Yes
He came out there quite in a new light. He got
transferred into the military service, and was always in the middle of
the fighting. Major Lawrence had a very high opinion of him, and so
selected him to lead the storming party. It really seems almost as if
he had a charmed life. Lawrence gave him thirty-three English
soldiers, and seven hundred Sepoys. The rest of the force were to
follow as soon as Clive's party gained the entrenchments. Clive led
the way with his Europeans, with the Sepoys supporting behind, and got
across the rivulet with a loss of only four men. He waited on the
other bank till he saw the Sepoys climbing up, and then again led the
English on in advance towards the unfinished part of the entrenchment.

"The Sepoys, however, did not move, but remained waiting for the main
body to come up. The enemy let Clive and his twenty-nine men get on
some distance in advance, and then their cavalry, who had been hidden
by a projection of the fort, charged suddenly down on him. They were
upon our men before they had time to form, and in a minute twenty-six
of them were cut to pieces. Clive and the other three managed to get
through the Tanjore horsemen and rejoin the Sepoys. That was almost as
narrow a shave for his life as with the pistol.

"Lawrence now crossed with his main body and advanced. Again the
Tanjore horsemen charged; but this time we were prepared, and Lawrence
let them come on till within a few yards, and then gave them a volley
which killed fourteen and sent the rest scampering away. Lawrence
pushed forward. The garrison, panic stricken at the defeat of their
cavalry, abandoned the breach and escaped to the opposite side of the
town, and Devikota was ours.

"A few days later we captured the fortified temple of Uchipuran. A
hundred men were left there, and these were afterwards attacked by the
Rajah of Tanjore, with five thousand men; but they held their own, and
beat them off. A very gallant business, that!

"These affairs showed the rajah that the English could fight; a point
which, hitherto, the natives had been somewhat sceptical about. They
were afraid of the French, but they looked upon us as mere traders. He
had, too, other things to trouble him as to the state of the Carnatic,
and so hastened to make peace. He agreed to pay the expenses of the
war, and to cede us Devikota and some territory round it; and to allow
the wretched ex-rajah, in whose cause we had pretended to fight, a
pension of four hundred a year, on condition that we kept him shut up
in one of our forts.

"Not a very nice business on our side, was it? Still, we had gained
our point, and, with the exception of the ex-rajah, who was a bad lot
after all, no one was discontented.

"When the peace was signed, our force returned to Fort Saint David.
While they had been away, there had been a revolution in the Carnatic.
Now this was rather a complicated business; but as the whole situation
at present turns upon it; and it will, not improbably, cause our
expulsion from Southern India; I will explain it to you as well as I
can.

"Now you must know that all Southern India, with the exception of a
strip along the west coast, is governed by a viceroy, appointed by the
emperor at Delhi. He was called the Subadar of the Deccan. Up till the
end of 'forty-eight, Nizam Ul-Mulk was viceroy. About that time he
died, and the emperor appointed his grandson, Muzaffar Jung, who was
the son of a daughter of his, to succeed him. But the subadar had left
five sons. Four of these lived at Delhi, and were content to enjoy
their life there. The second son, however, Nazir Jung, was an
ambitious man, who had rebelled even against his father. Naturally, he
rebelled against his nephew.

"He was on the spot when his father died, while the new subadar was
absent. Nazir, therefore, seized the reins of government, and all the
resources of the state. The emperor has troubles enough of his own at
Delhi, and Muzaffar had no hope of aid from him. He therefore went to
Satarah, the court of the Mahrattas, to ask for their assistance.

"There he met Chunda Sahib. This man was the nephew of the last nawab
of the Carnatic, Dost Ali. Dost Ali had been killed in a battle with
them, in 1739; and they afterwards captured Trichinopoli, and took
Chunda Sahib, who commanded there, prisoner; and had since kept him at
Satarah. Had he been at liberty he would, no doubt, have succeeded his
uncle, whose only son had been murdered; but as he was at Satarah, the
Subadar of the Deccan bestowed the government of the Carnatic upon
Anwarud-din.

"Chunda Sahib and Muzaffar Jung put their heads together, and agreed
to act in concert. Muzaffar, of course, desired the subadarship of the
Deccan, to which he had been appointed by the court of Delhi. Chunda
Sahib wanted the nawabship of the Carnatic, and advised his ally to
abandon his intention of asking for Mahratta aid, and to ally himself
with the French. A correspondence ensued with Dupleix, who, seeing the
immense advantage it would be to him to gain what would virtually be
the position of patron and protector of the Subadar of the Deccan, and
the Nawab of the Carnatic, at once agreed to join them.

"Muzaffar raised thirty thousand men, and Chunda Sahib six
thousand -- it is always easy, in India, to raise an army; with a
certain amount of money, and lavish promises -- marched down and joined
a French force of four hundred strong, commanded by D'Auteuil.

"The nawab advanced against them, but was utterly defeated at Ambur,
the French doing pretty well the whole of the work. The nawab was
killed, and one of his sons, Maphuz Khan, taken prisoner. The other,
Muhammud Ali, bolted at the beginning of the fight. Arcot, the capital
of the Carnatic, surrendered next day.

"Muzaffar Jung proclaimed himself Subadar of the Deccan, and appointed
Chunda Sahib Nawab of the Carnatic. Muzaffar Jung conferred upon
Dupleix the sovereignty of eighty-one villages adjoining the French
territory. Muzaffar, after paying a visit to Pondicherry, remained in
the camp with his army, twenty miles distant from that place. Chunda
Sahib remained, as the guest of Dupleix, at Pondicherry.

"On the receipt of the news of the battle of Ambur, Mr. Floyer, who is
governor at Fort Saint David, sent at once to Chunda Sahib to
acknowledge him as nawab; which, in the opinion of everyone here, was
a very foolish step. Muhammud Ali had fled to Trichinopoli, and sent
word to Mr. Floyer that he could hold the place, and even reconquer
the Carnatic, if the English would assist him. I know that Admiral
Boscawen, who was with the fleet at Fort Saint David, urged Mr. Floyer
to do so, as it was clear that Chunda Sahib would be a mere tool in
the hands of the French.

"When Chunda Sahib delayed week after week at Pondicherry, Mr. Floyer
began to hesitate, but he could not make up his mind, and Admiral
Boscawen, who had received orders to return home, could no longer act
in contravention to them, and was obliged to sail.

"The instant the fleet had left, and we remained virtually
defenceless, Chunda Sahib, supplied with troops and money by Dupleix,
marched out from Pondicherry and joined Muzaffar Jung, with the avowed
intention of marching upon Trichinopoli. Had he done this at once, he
must have taken the place, and it was a question of weeks and days
only of our being turned altogether out of Southern India. Nothing,
indeed, could have saved us.

"Muzaffar Jung and Chunda Sahib, however, disregarding the plan which
Dupleix had marked out for them, resolved, before marching on
Trichinopoli, to conquer Tanjore, which is the richest city in
Southern India. The rajah had, only a few weeks before, made peace
with us; and he now sent messengers to Nazir Jung, Muzaffar's rival in
the Deccan, and to the English, imploring their assistance. Both
parties resolved at once to grant it, for alone both must have been
overwhelmed by the alliance between the two Indian princes and the
French; and their only hope of a successful resistance to this
combination was in saving Trichinopoli.

"The march of these allies upon Tanjore opened the road to
Trichinopoli; and Captain Cope, with a hundred and twenty men, were at
once despatched to reinforce Muhammud Ali's garrison. Of this little
force, he sent off twenty men to the aid of the Rajah of Tanjore, and
these, under cover of the night, passed through the lines of the
besiegers and into the city, which was strongly fortified and able to
stand a long siege.

"The English at once entered into a treaty with Nazir Jung, promising
him six hundred English troops; to assist him in maintaining his
sovereignty of the Deccan, and in aiding to place Muhammud Ali in the
nawabship of the Carnatic.

"Tanjore held out bravely. For some weeks the rajah had thrown dust in
the eyes of Chunda Sahib, by pretending to negotiate. Then, when the
allies attacked, he defended the city for fifty-two days, at the end
of which one of the gates of the town had been captured, and the city
was virtually at the mercy of the besiegers. He again delayed them by
entering into negotiations for surrender. In vain Dupleix continued to
urge Chunda Sahib to act energetically, and to enter Tanjore.

"Chunda Sahib, however, although he has a good head for planning, is
irresolute in action. His troops were discontented at the want of pay.
The French contingent also was demoralized, from the same cause. The
troops feared to engage in a desperate struggle, in the streets of a
town abounding with palaces, each of which was virtually a fortress;
especially as it was known that Nazir Jung was marching, with all
speed, to fall upon their rear. So at last the siege was broken up,
and the army fell back upon Pondicherry.

"Meanwhile Cope's detachment of a hundred men, with six thousand
native horsemen, escorted Muhammud Ali to join Nazir Jung at Valdaur,
fifteen miles from Pondicherry. Lawrence was busy at work at Fort
Saint David, organizing a force to go to his aid. Dupleix saw that it
was necessary to aid his allies energetically. The army, on its return
from the siege of Tanjore, was reorganized; the French contingent
increased to two thousand men; and a supply of money furnished, from
his private means.

"The army set out to attack Nazir Jung and his ally at Valdaur. When
the battle began, however, the French contingent mutinied and refused
to fight; and the natives, panic stricken by the desertion of their
allies, fell back on Pondicherry. Chunda Sahib accompanied his men.
Muzaffar Jung surrendered to his uncle, the usurper.

"In three or four days the discipline of the French army was restored,
and on the 13th of April it attacked and defeated a detachment of
Nazir Jung's army; and a few days later captured the strong temple of
Tiruvadi, sixteen miles from Fort Saint David.

"Some months passed before the French were completely prepared; but on
September the first, D'Auteuil, who commanded the French, and Chunda
Sahib attacked the army of the native princes, twenty thousand strong,
and defeated it utterly, the French not losing a single man. Muhammud
Ali, with only two attendants, fled to Arcot, and the victory rendered
Chunda Sahib virtual master of the Carnatic.

"Muzaffar Jung, after his surrender to his uncle, had been loaded with
chains, and remained a prisoner in the camp; where, however, he
managed to win over several of the leaders of his uncle's army. Gingee
was stormed by a small French force, and the French officer there
entered into a correspondence with the conspirators, and it was
arranged that, when the French army attacked Nazir Jung, these should
declare against him.

"On the 15th December the French commander, with eight hundred
Europeans, three thousand Sepoys, and ten guns, marched against Nazir
Jung, whose army of twenty-five thousand men opposed him. These,
however, he defeated easily. While the battle was going on, the
conspirators murdered Nazir Jung, released Muzaffar Jung, and saluted
him as subadar. His escape was a fortunate one, for his uncle had
ordered him to be executed that very day.

"Muzaffar Jung proceeded to Pondicherry, where he was received with
great honors. He nominated Dupleix Nawab of the Carnatic and
neighbouring countries, with Chunda Sahib as his deputy, conferred the
highest dignities upon him, and granted the French possession of all
the lands and forts they had conquered. He arranged with Dupleix a
plan for common action, and agreed that a body of French troops should
remain permanently at his capital
I have nearly brought down the story to the present time
One event has taken place, however, which was of
importance. Muzaffar Jung set out for Hyderabad, accompanied by a
French contingent under Bussy. On the way, the chiefs who had
conspired against Nazir Jung mutinied against his successor. Muzaffar
charged them with his cavalry. Two of the three chief conspirators
were killed and, while pursuing the third, Muzaffar was himself
killed.

"Bussy at once released from confinement a son of Nazir Jung,
proclaimed him Subadar of the Deccan, escorted him to Hyderabad, and
received from him the cession of considerable fresh grants of
territory to the French. The latter were now everywhere triumphant,
and Trichinopoli and Tanjore were, with the three towns held by the
English, the sole places which resisted their authority. Muhammud Ali,
deeming further resistance hopeless, had already opened negotiations
with Dupleix for the surrender of Trichinopoli. Dupleix agreed to his
conditions; but when Muhammud Ali found that Count Bussy, with the
flower of the French force, had been despatched to Hyderabad, he
gained time by raising fresh demands, which would require the
ratification of the subadar.

"Luckily for us Mr. Floyer had been recalled, and his place taken by
Mr. Saunders; who is, everyone says, a man of common sense and
determination. Muhammud Ali urged upon him the necessity for the
English to make common cause with him against the enemy, for if
Trichinopoli fell, it would be absolutely impossible for the English
to resist the French and their allies. Early this year, then, Mr.
Saunders assured him that he should be assisted with all our strength,
and Muhammud Ali thereupon broke off the negotiations with the French.

"Most unfortunately for us, Major Lawrence had gone home to England on
sick leave. Captain Gingen, who now commands our troops, is a wretched
substitute for him. Captain Cope is no better.

"Early this year Mr. Saunders sent Cope, with two hundred and eighty
English and three hundred Sepoys, to Trichinopoli. Benefiting by the
delay which was caused before Dupleix, owing to the absence of his
best troops at Hyderabad, could collect an army, Cope laid siege to
Madura, but was defeated and had to abandon his guns. Three thousand
of Muhammud Ali's native troops thereupon deserted to the enemy.

"The cause of the English now appeared lost. Dupleix planted the white
flags, emblems of the authority of France, in the fields within sight
of Fort Saint David. With immense efforts, Mr. Saunders put into the
field five hundred English troops, a thousand Sepoys, a hundred
Africans, and eight guns; under the command of Captain Gingen, whose
orders were to follow the movements of the army with which D'Auteuil
and Chunda Sahib were marching against Trichinopoli.

"Luckily Chunda Sahib, instead of doing so at once, moved northwards
to confirm his authority in the towns of North and South Arcot, and to
raise additional levies. Great delay was caused by this. On arriving
before the important fortress of Valkonda, Chunda Sahib found before
it the troops of Captain Gingen, who had been reinforced by sixteen
hundred troops from Trichinopoli. The governor of the place, not
knowing which party was the stronger, refused to yield to either; and
for a fortnight the armies lay at a short distance from each other,
near the fortress, with whose governor both continued their
negotiations.

"Gingen then lost patience and attacked the place, but was repulsed,
and the governor at once admitted the French within the fortress. The
next day the main body of the French attacked us, the guns of the
fortress opening fire upon us at the same time. Our men, a great
portion of whom were recruits just joined from England, fell into a
panic and bolted, abandoning their allies and leaving their guns,
ammunition, and stores in the hands of the enemy.

"Luckily, D'Auteuil was laid up with gout. If he had pressed on, there
remained only the two or three hundred men under Cope to offer the
slightest resistance. Trichinopoli must have fallen at once; and we,
without a hundred soldiers here, should have had nothing to do but
pack up and go. As it was, Gingen's beaten men were allowed to retreat
quietly towards Trichinopoli.

"The next day D'Auteuil was better, and followed in pursuit, and
Gingen had the greatest difficulty in reaching Trichinopoli. There, at
the present moment, we lie shut up, a portion of our force only
remaining outside the walls.

"The place itself is strong. The town lies round a lofty rock, on
which stands the fortress, which commands the country for some
distance round. Still, there is no question that the French could take
it, if they attacked it. Our men are utterly dispirited with defeat.
Cope and Gingen have neither enterprise nor talent.

"At present the enemy, who are now under the command of Colonel Law,
who has succeeded D'Auteuil, are contenting themselves with
beleaguering the place. But as we have no troops whatever to send to
its rescue, and Muhammud Ali has no friends elsewhere to whom to look
for aid, it is a matter of absolute certainty that the place must
fall, and then Dupleix will only have to request us to leave, and we
shall have nothing else to do but to go at once. So I should advise
you not to trouble yourself to unpack your luggage, for in all
probability another fortnight will see us on board ship.

"There, that's a tremendous long yarn I've been telling you, and not a
pleasant one. It's a history of defeat, loss of prestige and position.
We have been out fought and out diplomatized, and have made a mess of
everything we put our hand to. I should think you must be tired of it.
I am. I haven't done so much talking, for years
What has become of
Clive, all this time
After the conquest of Devikota
the civilians in
the service were called back to their posts; but to show that they
recognized his services, the authorities allowed Clive to attain the
rank of captain, which would have been bestowed upon him had he
remained in the military service, and they appointed him commissary to
the army, a post which would take him away from the office work he
hated. Almost directly afterwards, he got a bad attack of fever, and
was forced to take a cruise in the Bay of Bengal. He came back in time
to go with Gingen's force; but after the defeat of Valkonda he
resigned his office, I suppose in disgust, and returned to Fort Saint
David. In July, some of the Company's ships came in with some
reinforcements. There were no military officers left at Fort Saint
David, so Mr. Pigot, a member of the council, started with a large
convoy of stores, escorted by eighty English and three hundred Sepoys.
Clive volunteered to accompany them. They had to march thirty or forty
miles to Verdachelam, a town close to the frontier of Tanjore, through
which the convoy to Trichinopoli would be able to pass unopposed, but
the intervening country was hostile to the English.

"However, the convoy passed unmolested, and after seeing it safely to
that point, Pigot and Clive set out to return, with an escort of
twelve Sepoys. They were at once attacked, and for miles a heavy fire
was kept up on them. Seven of the escort were killed, the rest reached
Fort Saint David in safety. Pigot's report of Clive's conduct,
strengthened by that previously made by Major Lawrence, induced the
authorities to transfer him permanently to the army. He received a
commission as captain and was sent off, with a small detachment
remaining at Saint David's, to Devikota.

"There he placed himself under Captain Clarke, who commanded; and the
whole body, numbering altogether a hundred English, fifty Sepoys, with
a small field piece, marched up to Trichinopoli, and I hear managed to
make its way in safety. He got in about a month ago
And what force have we altogether, here and at Saint David's, in case
Trichinopoli falls
What with the detachment that came with you, and two others which
arrived about ten days back, we have altogether about three hundred
and fifty men. What on earth could these do against all the force of
the nawab, the subadar, and three or four thousand French troops
There are two ships coming from the south
I wonder whether they're from England, or Fort Saint David
Which do you hope they will be
I hope they're from Saint David's
Even if they
made a quick voyage, they couldn't have left England many weeks after
us; and although I should be glad to get news from home, I am still
more anxious, just at present, for news from Saint David's. Between
ourselves, I long to hear of the fall of Trichinopoli. Everyone says
it is certain to take place before long, and the sooner it does, the
sooner we shall be out of this frightful place
It is one of two things
Either Trichinopoli has
surrendered and they are evacuating Fort Saint David, or they have
news that the nawab is marching to attack us here. I should think it
to be the latter, for Fort Saint David is a great deal stronger than
this place, though the French did strengthen it during their stay
here. If, then, the authorities have determined to abandon one of the
two towns, and to concentrate all their force for the defence of the
other, I should have thought they would have held on to Saint David's.

"There is a boat being lowered from one of the ships, so we shall soon
have news
Ah! Doctor
how are you? When did you get out again from
England
Only three or four days since, Captain Clive. I did not recognize
you, at first. I am glad to see you again
Yes, I have cast my slough
and have,
thank God, exchanged my pen for a sword, for good
You were able to fight, though, as a civilian
Yes, we had some tough fighting behind the ramparts of Saint David's,
and in the trenches before Pondicherry; but we shall have sharper
work, still before us, or I am mistaken
What! Are they going to attack us here
Oh no, just the other way
We are going to
carry the war into their quarters. It is a secret yet, and must not go
farther
These are two fresh comers, Captain Clive. They came out in the same
ship with me. This is Mr. Marryat, this Mr. Peters. They are both
brave young gentlemen, and had an opportunity of proving it on the way
out, for we were twice engaged; the first time with privateers; the
second, a very sharp affair, with pirates. That ship lying off there
is a pirate we captured
Aha
Well, young
gentlemen, and how do you like what you have seen of your life here
We hate it, sir
We would, both of us, a thousand
times rather enlist under you as private soldiers. Oh, sir, if there
is any expedition going to take place, do you think there is a chance
of our being allowed to go as volunteers
I will see about it
Trade must be
dull enough here, at present, and we want every hand that can hold a
sword or a musket in the field.

"You are sure you can recommend them
Most warmly
They both showed great coolness and
courage, in the affairs I spoke of. Have you any surgeons with you,
Captain Clive? If not, I hope that I shall go with any expedition that
will take place. The doctor here is just recovering from an attack of
fever and will not be fit, for weeks, for the fatigues of active
service.

"May I ask who is to command the expedition
I am
You may well look surprised that an
officer who has but just joined should have been selected; but in
fact, there is no one else. Cope and Gingen are both at Trichinopoli,
and even if they were not
Mr. Saunders is good enough to feel
some confidence in my capacity, and I trust that I shall not
disappoint him.

"We are going -- but this, mind, is a profound secret till the day we
march -- to attack Arcot. It is the only possible way of relieving
Trichinopoli
To attack Arcot
That does indeed
appear a desperate enterprise, with such a small body as you have at
your command, and these, entirely new recruits. But I recognize the
importance of the enterprise. If you should succeed, it will draw off
Chunda Sahib from Trichinopoli. It's a grand idea, Captain Clive, a
grand idea, though I own it seems to me a desperate one
In desperate times we must take desperate measures, Doctor
Now I must be going on after the governor. I shall see
you tomorrow.

"I will not forget you, young gentlemen
Ah
when I first
came out here, I should have done the same, and should have regarded
the certainty of being knocked on the head as cheerfully as you do.
Eight years out here takes the enthusiasm out of a man, and I shall
wait quietly to see whether we are to be transferred to Calcutta, or
shipped back to England
Ah
My young friends, I'm glad to see you. There is plenty
for you to do, at once. We shall march tomorrow, and all preparations
have to be made. You will both have the rank of ensign, while you
serve with me. I have only six other officers, two of whom are
civilians who, like yourselves, volunteered at Saint David's. They are
of four or five year's standing and, as they speak the language, they
will serve with the Sepoys under one of my military officers. Another
officer, who is also an ensign, will take the command of the three
guns. The Europeans are divided into two companies. One of you will be
attached to each. The remaining officer commands both
Sure, Mr. Marryat
that black
hathen of a cook is going to pison ye. I have been watching him, and
there he is putting all sorts of outlandish things into the mate. He's
been pounding them up on stones, for all the world like an apothecary,
and even if he manes no mischief, the food isn't fit to set before a
dog, let alone a Christian and a gintleman like yourself. If you give
the word, sir, I knock him over with the butt end of my musket, and do
the cooking for you, meself
I'm afraid the other officers wouldn't agree to that, Tim
The food isn't so bad as it looks, and I don't think
an apprenticeship among the Irish bogs is likely to have turned you
out a first rate cook, Tim; except, of course, for potatoes
Sure, now, yer honor, I can fry a rasher of bacon with any man
Perhaps you might do that, Tim, but as we've no bacon here, that
won't help us. No, we must put up with the cook, and I don't think any
of us will be the worse for the dinner
I wonder whether they will have any fighting
I wish we had gone with them
but it will be a long
march, in the heat
I should think
that they are sure to have
fighting. I only hope they may not be attacked at night. The men are
very young and inexperienced, and there is nothing tries new soldiers
so much as a night attack. However, from what I hear of their own
wars, I believe that night attacks are rare among them. I don't know
that they have any superstition on the subject, as some African people
have, on the ground that evil spirits are about at night; but the
natives are certainly not brisk, after nightfall. They are extremely
susceptible to any fall of temperature, and as you have, of course,
noticed, sleep with their heads covered completely up. However, we
must keep a sharp lookout here, tonight
You don't think that we are likely to be attacked, sir, do you
It is possible we may be
They will know that
Captain Clive has set out from here, with the main body, and has left
only a small garrison. Of course they have spies, and will know that
there are only eighty men here, a number insufficient to defend one
side of this fort, to say nothing of the whole circle of the walls.
They have already found out that the English can fight in the open,
and their experience at Timari will make them shy of meeting us again.
Therefore, it is just possible that they may be marching in this
direction today, while Clive is going in the other, and that they may
intend carrying it with a rush.

"I should say, today let the men repose as much as possible; keep the
sentries on the gates and walls, but otherwise let them all have
absolute quiet. You can tell the whites, and I will let the Sepoys
know, that they will have to be in readiness all night, and that they
had better, therefore, sleep as much as possible today. We will take
it by turns to be on duty, one going round the walls and seeing that
the sentries are vigilant, while the others sit in the shade and doze
off, if they can. We must all three keep on the alert, during the
night
Well, Tim, what is the matter with you
You look pale
And it's pale I feel, your honor, with the life frightened fairly out
of me, a dozen times a day. It was bad enough on the march, but this
place just swarms with horrible reptiles. Shure an' it's a pity that
the holy Saint Patrick didn't find time to pay a visit to India. If
he'd driven the varmint into the sea for them, as he did in Ireland,
the whole population would have become Christians, out of pure
gratitude. Why, yer honor, in the cracks and crevices of the stones of
this ould place there are bushels and bushels of 'em. There are things
they call centipades, with a million legs on each side of them, and
horns big enough to frighten ye; of all sizes up to as long as my hand
and as thick as my finger; and they say that a bite from one of them
will put a man in a raging fever, and maybe kill him. Then there are
scorpions, the savagest looking little bastes ye ever saw, for all the
world like a little lobster with his tail turned over his back, and a
sting at the end of it. Then there's spiders, some of 'em nigh as big
as a cat
Oh, nonsense, Tim
I don't think, from what I've
heard, that there's a spider in India whose body is as big as a
mouse
It isn't their body, yer honor. It's their legs. They're just cruel
to look at. It was one of 'em that gave me a turn, a while ago. I was
just lying on my bed smoking my pipe, when I saw one of the creatures
(as big as a saucer, I'll take my oath) walking towards me with his
wicked eye fixed full on me. I jumped off the bed and on to a bench
that stood handy.

"'What are ye yelling about, Tim Kelly?' said Corporal Jones to me.

"'Here's a riotous baste here, corporal,' says I, 'that's meditating
an attack on me.'

"'Put your foot on it, man,' says he.

"'It's mighty fine,' says I, 'and I in my bare feet.'

"So the corporal tells Pat Murphy, my right-hand man, to tackle the
baste. I could see Pat didn't like the job ayther, yer honor, but he's
not the boy to shrink from his duty; so he comes and he takes post on
the form by my side, and just when the cratur is making up his mind to
charge us both, Pat jumps down upon him and squelched it.

"Shure, yer honor, the sight of such bastes is enough to turn a
Christian man's blood
The spider had no idea of attacking you, Kelly
It might possibly bite you in the night, though I do not
think it would do so; or if you took it up in your fingers
The saints defind us, yer honor! I'd as soon think of taking a tiger
by the tail. The corporal, he's an Englishman, and lives in a country
where they've got snakes and reptiles; but it's hard on an Irish boy,
dacently brought up within ten miles of Cork's own town, to be exposed
to the like.

"And do ye know, yer honor, when I went out into the town yesterday,
what should I see but a man sitting down against a wall, with a little
bit of a flute in his hand, and a basket by his side. Well, yer honor,
I thought maybe he was going to play a tune, when he lifts up the top
of the basket and then began to play. Ye may call it music, yer honor,
but there was nayther tune nor music in it.

"Then all of a suddint two sarpents in the basket lifts up their
heads, with a great ear hanging down on each side, and began to wave
themselves about
Well, Tim, what happened then
Shure it's little I know what happened after, for I just took to my
heels, and I never drew breath till I was inside the gates
There was nothing to be frightened at, Tim
It was a
snake charmer. I have never seen one yet, but there are numbers of
them all over India. Those were not ears you saw, but the hood. The
snakes like the music, and wave their heads about in time to it. I
believe that, although they are a very poisonous snake and their bite
is certain death, there is no need to be afraid of them, as the
charmers draw out their poison fangs when they catch them
Do they, now
I wonder what the regimental
barber would say to a job like that, now. He well nigh broke Dan
Sullivan's jaw, yesterday, in getting out a big tooth; and then swore
at the poor boy, for having such a powerful strong jaw. I should like
to see his face, if he was asked to pull out a tooth from one of them
dancing sarpents.

"I brought ye in some fruits, yer honors. I don't know what they are,
but you may trust me, they're not poison. I stopped for half an hour
beside the stall, till I saw some of the people of the country buying
and ating them. So then I judged that they were safe for yer honors
Now, Tim, you'd better go and lie down and get a sleep, if the
spiders will let you, for you will have to be under arms all night, as
it is possible that we may be attacked
Ah! Yer honors
I've often been out
catching rabbits, with ferrits to drive 'em out of their holes, and
sticks to knock 'em on the head, as soon as they showed themselves;
and it's a divarshun I was always mightily fond of, but I never quite
intered into the feelings of the rabbits. Now I understand them
complately, for ain't we rabbits ourselves? The officers, saving your
presence, are the ferrits who turn us out of our holes on duty; and
the niggers yonder, with their muskets and their matchlocks, are the
men with sticks, ready to knock us on head, directly we show
ourselves. If it plase Heaven that I ever return to the ould country
again, I'll niver lend a hand at rabbiting, to my dying day
Plase, yer honors, there's a little shrivelled atomy of a man
outside, as wants to spake wid ye. He looks for all the world like a
monkey, wrapped up in white clothes, but he spakes English after a
fashion, and has brought this letter for you. The cratur scarce looks
like a human being, and I misdoubt me whether you had better let him
in
Nonsense, Tim
it's the moonshee
we are expecting, from Madras. He has come to teach us the native
language
Moonshine, is it! By jabers, and it's a mighty poor compliment to the
moon to call him so. And is it the language you're going to larn now?
Shure, Mr. Charles, I wouldn't demane myself by larning the lingo of
these black hathens. Isn't for them to larn the English, and mighty
pleased they ought to be, to get themselves to spake like Christians
But who's going to teach them, Tim
Oh, they larn fast enough
You've only got to point to a
bottle of water, or to the fire, or whatever else you want, and swear
at them, and they understand directly. I've tried it myself, over and
over again
There, Tim, it's no use standing talking any longer. Bring in the
moonshee
It's just awful to hear him, Corporal M'Bean, jabbering away in that
foreign talk, with that little black monkey moonshine. The little
cratur a-twisting his shrivelled fingers about, that looks as if the
bones were coming through the skin. I wonder what the good father at
Blarney, where I come from, you know, Corporal, would say to sich
goings on. Faith, then, and if he were here, I'd buy a bottle of holy
water, and sprinkle it over the little hathen. I suspict he'd fly
straight up the chimney, when it touched him
My opinion of you, Tim Kelly
is that you're just a fule. Your master is a brave
young gentleman, and is a deal more sensible than most of them, who
spend all their time in drinking wine and playing cards. A knowledge
of the language is most useful. What would you do, yourself, if you
were to marry a native woman, and couldn't speak to her afterwards
The saints defind us
and what put such an idea in
yer head, Corporal? It's nayther more nor less than an insult to
suppose that I, a dacent boy, and brought up under the teaching of
Father O'Shea, should marry a hathen black woman; and if you weren't
my suparior officer, corporal, I'd tach ye better manners
I don't know, Mr. Marryat, whether the French call this fighting. I
call it playing hide and seek
Shure we've bin
marching, with only a halt of two or three hours, since yisterday
morning; and my poor feet are that sore that I daren't take my boots
off me, for I'm shure I'd never git 'em on agin. If the French want to
fight us, why don't they do it square and honest, not be racing and
chasing about like a lot of wild sheep
Have you seen the moonshee, Tim? He is with the baggage
Shure and I saw him
The cart come in just now, and there
was he, perched up on the top of it like a dried monkey. You don't
want him tonight, shure, yer honor
Oh no, I don't want him, Tim. You'd better go now, and get to sleep
at once, if you can. We may be off again, at any minute
Steady, lads, steady
Form up quietly and steadily. We
have beaten the enemy before, you know, and we will do so again
Now, lads
stick to it. You ought to be very thankful to the French,
for saving you the trouble of having to march another twelve miles
before giving you an opportunity of thrashing them
They are wonderfully clever and ingenious
Look what
rough tools that man is working with, and what delicate and intricate
work he is turning out. If these fellows could but fight as well as
they work, and were but united among themselves, not only should we be
unable to set a foot in India, but the emperor, with the enormous
armies which he would be able to raise, would be able to threaten
Europe. I suppose they never have been really good fighting men.
Alexander, a couple of thousand years ago, defeated them; and since
then the Afghans, and other northern peoples, have been always
overrunning and conquering them.

"I can't make it out. These Sepoys, after only a few weeks' training,
fight almost as well as our own men. I wonder how it is that, when
commanded by their own countrymen, they are able to make so poor a
fight of it.

"We had better be going back to camp again, Peters. At any moment,
there may be orders for us to do something. With Major Lawrence and
Clive together, we are not likely to stop here long, inactive
If Captain Clive commands, we will go -- unless he commands, we do
not
Gentlemen
there is no firing going on in the
direction of the Great Pagoda. Follow me there at once
I don't like the look o' things, Mr. Charles
There's nothing but boys altogether, white and black. Does it stand
to reason that a lot of gossoons, who haven't learnt the goose step,
and haven't as much as a shred of faith, ayther in themselves or their
officers, are fit to fight the French
Oh, I don't know, Tim
Boys are just as plucky as
men, in their way, and are ready to do all sorts of foolhardy things,
which men would hesitate to attempt
And that is so, Mr. Charles, when they've only other boys to dale
with; but as they're growing up, they take some time before they're
quite sure they're a match for men. That's what it is, yer honor, I
tell ye, and you will see it, soon
I have sent for you, Mr. Marryat, to ask you if you are ready to
undertake a delicate, and somewhat dangerous, mission. Captain Clive
tells me that he is convinced that you will be able to discharge the
duties satisfactorily. He has been giving me the highest report of
your conduct and courage, and he tells me that you speak the language
with some facility
I have been working hard, sir
and have had a
moonshee for the last year; and as, except when on duty, I have spoken
nothing but the native language with him, I can now speak it almost as
fluently as I can English
So Captain Clive has been telling me
and it is,
indeed, on that ground that I select you for the service. Your friend
Mr. Peters has equally distinguished himself in the field, Captain
Clive tells me, but he is greatly your inferior in his knowledge of
the vernacular
The facts of the case are these, Mr. Marryat. Owing to the failure,
of Muhammud Ali, to fulfil the ridiculously onerous terms extorted
from him, by some of his native allies, during the siege of
Trichinopoli, several of them are in a state of discontent, which is
likely soon to break out into open hostilities. The Rajahs of Mysore
and Tanjore are, I have learned, already in communication with
Pondicherry; and will, I believe, shortly acknowledge the son of
Chunda Sahib, whom Dupleix has declared ruler of the Carnatic. Murari
Reo has already openly joined the French. Their influence in the
Deccan is now so great that Bussy may be said to rule there.

"Now, there is a chief named Boorhau Reo, whose territory lies among
the hills, and extends from the plain nearly up to the plateau land of
the Deccan. His position, like that of many of the other small rajahs,
is precarious. In days like the present, when might makes right, and
every petty state tries to make profit out of the constant wars, at
the expense of its neighbour, the position of a chief, surrounded by
half a dozen others more powerful than himself, is by no means
pleasant. Boorhau Reo feels that he is in danger of being swallowed,
by the nizam or by the Mahrattas, and he earnestly desires to ally
himself with us; believing, as he says, that we are destined to be
masters here. I have assured him that, although gratified at his
expressions of friendship, we can enter into no alliance with him. The
position of his territory would enable him to be of great assistance
to us, in any war in which the whole force of the Deccan, controlled
as it is at present at Bussy, might be utilized against us in the
Carnatic. He would be able to harass convoys, cut communications, and
otherwise trouble the enemy's movements. But, although we see that his
aid would be very useful to us, in case of such a war; we do not see
how, on our part, we could give him any protection. We have now, with
the greatest difficulty, brought affairs to a successful conclusion in
the Carnatic; but Dupleix is active and energetic, and well supported
at home. Many of the chiefs lately our allies have, as I have just
said, declared against us, or are about to do so; and it is out of the
question, for us to think of supporting a chief so far removed from us
as Boorhau. I have, therefore, told him that we greatly desire his
friendship, but are at present powerless to protect him, should he be
attacked by his northern neighbours.

"He is particularly anxious to train his men after the European
fashion, as he sees that our Sepoys are a match for five times their
number of the untrained troops of the Indian princes.

"This brings me to the subject before us. I have written to him, to
say that I will send to him an English officer, capable of training
and leading his troops, and whose advice may be useful to him upon all
occasions; but that as, were it known that he had received a British
officer, and was employing him to train his troops, it would excite
the instant animosity of Bussy and of the Peishwar; I should send one
familiar with the language, and who may pass as a native. Captain
Clive has strongly recommended you for this difficult mission
I fear, sir, that I could hardly pass as a native. The moonshee is
constantly correcting mistakes which I make, in speaking
That may be so
but there are a score of
dialects in Southern India, and you could be passed upon nineteen of
the twenty peoples who speak them, as belonging to one of the other
If you think, sir, that I shall do
I shall be glad
to undertake the mission
Very well, Mr. Marryat, that is understood, then. You will receive
full instructions in writing, and will understand that your duty is
not only to drill the troops of this chief; but to give him such
advice as may suit his and our interests; to strengthen his good
feeling towards us; and to form, as far as possible, a compact little
force which might, at a critical moment, be of immense utility. You
will, of course, master the geography of the country, of which we are
all but absolutely ignorant; find out about the passes, the mountain
paths, the defensible positions. All these things may someday be of
the highest importance.

"You will have a few days to make your arrangements, and settle as to
the character you will adopt. This you had better do, in consultation
with someone who thoroughly understands the country. It is intended
that you shall go down to Trichinopoli, with the next convoy; and from
there make your way to the stronghold of Boorhau
Shall I take any followers with me
Yes
As you will go in the character of a
military adventurer, who has served among our Sepoys long enough to
learn European drill, you had better take two, three, or four men, as
you like, with you as retainers. You might pick out two or three
trusty men, from the Sepoys you command
Shure, Mr. Charlie, ye'll never have the heart to lave a poor boy,
that sarved ye be night and day for eighteen months. Tim Kelly would
gladly give his life for ye, and ye wouldn't go and lave him behind
ye, and go all alone among these black thaves of the world
But it is impossible that I can take you, Tim
You
know, yourself, that you cannot speak ten words of the language. How
then could you possibly pass undetected, whatever disguise you put
on
But I'd never open my mouth at all, at all, yer honor, barring for
mate and drink
It's all very well for you to say so, Tim
but I
do not think that anything, short of a miracle, would silence your
tongue. But leave us now, Tim, and I will talk the matter over with
Mr. Peters. I should be glad enough to have you with me, if we could
arrange it
You might assert
that your father had taken service with
some rajah on the plain, and that you had there learned to speak the
language. In this way, you would avoid having to answer any difficult
questions regarding your native place; but as to that, you can get up
something of the geography before you leave
There are several Bheels among our Sepoys
I can pick
out three or four of them, who would be just the men for me to take. I
believe they are generally very faithful, and attached to their
officers
What do you say, Mr. Moonshine
I think
that the very
worshipful one would have most chance of escaping detection if he went
in rags, throwing dust on his hair, and passing for one afflicted
And what does he mean by afflicted, Mr. Charles
He means one who is a born fool, Tim
It would
be the character which the
worshipful one would support with the greatest ease
The black thief is making fun of me
but I'll be aven
with him one of these days, or my name isn't Tim Kelly.

"I was thinking, yer honor, that I might represent one deaf and dumb
But you're always talking, Tim, and when you're not talking to
others, you talk to yourself. It's quite impossible you could go as a
dumb man; but you might go, as the moonshee suggests, as a half-witted
sort of chap; with just sense enough to groom a horse and look after
him, but with not enough to understand what's said to you, or to
answer any questions
I could do that asy enough, Mr. Charles
And you have to keep from quarrelling, Tim. I hear you quarrelling,
on an average, ten times a day; and as, in such a character as we're
talking about, you would, of course, be exposed to all sorts of
slights and unpleasantnesses, you would be in continual hot water
Now, yer honor
you're too hard on me,
entirely. I like a bit of a row as well as any many, but it's all for
divarsion; and I could go on, for a year, without quarrelling with a
soul. Just try me, Mr. Charles. Just try me for a month, and if, at
the end of that time, you find me in your way; or that I don't keep my
character, then send me back agin to the regiment
It is a strong place
and should be able to hold out against anything but
starvation. That is to say, if properly defended
It's a powerful place, surely
and would puzzle the ould
boy himself to take. Even Captain Clive, who is afeard of nothing,
would be bothered by it
My master, the rajah, sends his greeting to you, and begs to know if
you are the illustrious soldier, Nadir Ali, for whom his heart has
been longing
Will you tell your lord that Nadir Ali is here
and
that he longs to see the face of the rajah
Faith, then, it's no fool that built this place. I shouldn't like to
have to attack it, wid all the soldiers of the King's army, let alone
those of the Company
It is tremendously strong, Tim, but it is astonishing what brave men
can do
Welcome, brave Nadir Ali
my heart is glad,
indeed, at the presence of one whose wisdom is said to be far beyond
his years, and who has learned the arts of war of the infidels from
beyond the seas
I am glad to see you, Sahib
though,
in truth, I looked for one older than yourself. The great English
governor of Madras tells me, however, in a letter which I received
four days since, that you are skilled in war; that you fought by the
side of that great Captain Clive at Arcot, Arni, Kavaripak, and at
Trichinopoli; and that the great warrior, himself, chose you to come
to me. Therefore, I doubt neither your valour nor your prudence, and
put myself in your hands, wholly.

"The governor has already told you, doubtless, of the position in
which I am placed here
Governor Saunders explained the whole position to me
You are, at present, menaced on all sides by powerful neighbours. You
believe that the fortunes of the English are on the increase; and as
you think the time may come, ere long, when they will turn the French
out of the Deccan, and become masters there, as they have already
become masters in the Carnatic, you wish to fight by their side, and
share their fortunes. In the meantime, you desire to be able to defend
yourself against your neighbours; for, at present, the English are too
far away to assist you.

"To enable you to do this, I have been sent to drill and discipline
your troops, like our Sepoys; and to give you such advice as may be
best, for the general defence of your country. I have brought with me
five soldiers; four Bheels, and one of my countrymen. The latter will
be of little use in drilling your troops, for he is ignorant of the
language, and has come as my personal attendant. The other four will
assist me in my work.

"Your followers here will, no doubt, discover in a very short time
that I am an Englishman. Let it be understood that I am a deserter,
that I have been attracted to your court by the promise of high pay,
and that I have assumed the character of a Bheel, lest my being here
might put you on bad terms with the English
In time of peace
I keep three hundred men under
arms. In case of taking the field, three thousand. To defend Ambur
against an attack of an enemy, I could muster ten thousand men
You could not call out three thousand men, without attracting the
attention of your neighbours
No
that would bring my neighbours upon me, at
once
I suppose, however, you might assemble another five hundred men,
without attracting attention
Oh, yes
eight hundred men are not a force which
could attract any great attention
Then I should propose that we begin with eight hundred
For a month, however, I will confine myself to the troops you
at present have. We must, in the first place, train some officers. If
you will pick out those to whom you intend to give commands, and
subcommands; I will choose from the men, after drilling them for a few
days, forty of the most intelligent as what we call noncommissioned
officers.

"For the first month, we will work hard in teaching these officers and
sub-officers their duties. Then, when the whole eight hundred
assemble, we can divide them into four parties. There will be one of
my drill instructors to each party, ten under officers, and four or
five of the officers whom you will appoint. Six weeks' hard work
should make these eight hundred men fairly acquainted with drill. The
English Sepoys have often gone out to fight, with less. At the end of
the six weeks, let the five hundred men you have called out, in
addition to your bodyguard of three hundred, return to their homes;
and replace them by an equal number of fresh levies, and so proceed
until you have your three thousand fighting men, thoroughly trained.
In nine months, all will have had their six weeks of exercise, and
could take their places in the ranks again, at a day's notice.

"Two hundred of your men I will train in artillery; although I do not
belong to that branch of the service, I learned the duties at Arcot
You niver know, yer honor, what these natives may be up to. They'll
smile with you one day, and stab ye the next. They're treacherous
varmint, yer honor, if you do but give 'em the chance
By all means
get the uniforms made for the whole
force, and keep them by you in store. They can be at once served out
in case of war, and the sight of a number of Sepoy battalions, where
they expected only to meet an irregular force, will have an immense
effect upon any force opposed to you
Were you to gain territory, Rajah, which you might, perhaps, largely
do, from the efficient aid which you might render to one party or the
other, you would be the object of a hostile combination against which
you could not hope to struggle
A guard can always be corrupted
My Irish servant sleeps
in my anteroom, my four lieutenants are close at hand, and knowing
that the soldiers are, for the most part, attached to me, I do not
think that open force will be used. I will, however, cause a large
bell to be suspended above my quarters. Its ringing will be a signal
that I am attacked, in which case I rely upon your highness putting
yourself at the head of the guard, and coming to my assistance
For the love of Heaven, Mr. Charles, don't put that stuff to your
mouth. It's pisoned, or, at any rate, if it isn't, one of the other
dishes is
Poisoned, Tim! Nonsense, man. You are always thinking of poisonings
and plots
And it's lucky for your honor that I am
Jist come into
the next room, and look at the monkeys
They look bad, poor little beasts
but what has that
got to do with my soup
Shure, yer honor, isn't that jist what I keep the cratures for, just
to give them a taste of everything yer honor has, and I claps it into
the oven there to kape it warm till I've had time to see, by the
monkeys, whether it's good
It looks very serious
Do you go quietly
out, Tim, call two men from the guardhouse, and seize the cook; and
place one or two men as sentries over the other servants. I will go
across to the rajah
We shall see
Eat up that plate of soup
Your highness will observe
that you have already
told me that one of these dishes is poisoned. I cannot say which, and
whichever I eat may be the fatal one
There is something in what he says, your highness. Whether the man is
innocent or guilty, he would shrink equally from eating any of them.
It is really possible that he may know nothing of it. The poison may
have been introduced into the materials beforehand. If the man is
taken to a dungeon, I think I could suggest a plan by which we could
test him.

"I believe him to be guilty
Then why not let him be beheaded at once
I would rather let ten guilty men escape
than run
the risk of putting one innocent one to death. I propose, sir, that
you order the eight dishes of food, which have been prepared for my
dinner, to be carefully weighed. Let these be all placed in the cell
of the prisoner, and there let him be left. In the course of two or
three days he will, if guilty, endeavour to assuage his hunger by
eating little bits of food, from every dish except that which he knows
to be poisoned, but will take such a small portion from each that he
will think it will not be detected. If he is innocent, and is really
ignorant which dish is poisoned, he will not touch any of them, until
driven to desperation by hunger. Then he will seize on one or more,
and devour them to the end, running the chance of death by poison,
rather than endure the pangs of hunger longer
Your plan is a wise one
It shall be tried. Let the
dishes be taken to him, every morning, and removed every evening. Each
evening they shall be weighed
Let the prisoner be brought in again
Dog
you have betrayed yourself. Had you been innocent,
you could not have known in which of the dishes the poison had been
placed. You have eaten of all but one. If that one contains poison,
you are guilty
The guilt of the man is confirmed
Let him be
executed
Will you give him to me, your highness
His death
would not benefit me now, and to save his life, he may tell me who is
my enemy. It is of no use punishing the instrument, and letting the
instigator go free
You are right
If you can find out who bribed
him, justice shall be done, though it were the highest in the state
Hossein
you have taken money to take my life. I looked
upon you as my faithful servant. I had done you no wrong. It has been
proved that you attempted to poison me. You, when driven by hunger,
ate small quantities, which you thought would pass unobserved, of all
the dishes but one. That dish has been given to a dog, and he has
died. You knew, then, which was the poisoned dish. The rajah has
ordered your execution. I offer you life, if you will tell me who it
was that tempted you
We had better proceed to torture him, at once
I will say nothing
though you tear me limb from
limb
I have no intention of torturing you
A confession
extorted by pain is as likely to be false as true, and even did you
tell me one name, there might still be a dozen engaged in it who would
remain unknown. No, Hossein, you have failed in your duty, you have
tried to slay a master who was kind to you, and trusted you
No, sahib
You did not trust me.
The food I sent you was tested and tried. I knew it; but I thought
that the poison would not have acted on the monkeys, until you had
eaten the dish. The fool who sold it me deceived me. Had you trusted
me, I would never have done it. It was only when I saw that I was
suspected and doubted, without cause, that my heart turned against
you, and I took the gold which was offered to me to kill you. I swear
it by the Prophet
I believe you
You were mistaken. I had no suspicions. My
servant feared for me, and took these precautions without telling me.
However, Hossein, I pardon you, and if you will swear to me to be
faithful, in future, I will trust you. You shall again be my cook, and
I will eat the food as you prepare it for me
I am my lord's slave
My life is his
I think I have done wisely
I must have a cook, for
Tim Kelly here is not famous that way; and although he might manage
for me, when alone, he certainly could not turn out a dinner which
would be suitable, when I have some of the rajah's kinsmen and
officers dining with me. Did I get another cook, he might be just as
open to the offers of my enemies as Hossein has been; and do you not
think that, after what has passed, Hossein will be less likely to take
bribes than any other man
You see, Tim, Hossein has determined that I shall not be poisoned
without his knowing it. The little peddlers who come up here with
herbs, and spices, and the ingredients for curry, might be bribed to
sell Hossein poisoned goods. By going down into the town, and buying
in the open market, it is barely possible that the goods could be
poisoned. You need have no more anxiety whatever, Tim, as to poison.
If the attempt is made again, it will probably be by sword or dagger
Well, yer honor
anything's better than pison. I've got
to sleep almost with one eye open. And you've got sentries outside
your windows. What a pity it is that we ain't in a climate where one
can fasten the windows, and boult the shutters! But now the wet season
is over again, ye might have yer bed put, as ye did last year, on the
roof of your room, with a canopy over it to keep off the dew. Ye would
be safe then, except from anyone coming through the room where I
sleeps
Take arm
Bad man coming
Death to
the Englishman
The Lord be praised, Mr. Charles
that you're coming to
yourself again. Don't you trouble, sir. We've done for the murdhering
rascals; and, plase God, you'll soon be about again. Jist drink this
draught, yer honor, and go off to sleep, if you can. In the morning
I'll tell you all about it.

"You're in the rajah's own room
and all you've got to do is just to
lie still, and get well as soon as you can
He trusted me
He gave me my life. Should I not give mine
for him? Anyone else would have had me hung as a dog. I will watch. I
will watch. He shall see that Hossein is not ungrateful
Is there any hope for him
It is possible, just possible that he may live
Allah only knows
Do all you can to save him
I shall be ever grateful
to you, if you do
It may not do much good
but if we can induce him to
remain quiet, until we have defeated Murari Reo, it will be so much
gained
What think you
will
be the result, when the news of the defeat of Murari Reo reaches
Hyderabad
It is difficult to say
It is possible, of course,
that it may be considered that it is better to leave you in peace;
but, upon the other hand, it may be that they will consider that you
are so formidable a power, that it is absolutely necessary to crush
you at once, rather than to give you the chance of joining against
them, in the war which must sooner or later take place between them
and the English. In that case, it will be a very different affair from
that which we have had today.

"Still, I should send off a messenger tomorrow, to acquaint the nizam
with the defeat you inflicted upon the Mahrattas who have invaded you,
to assure him again of your loyalty, and to beg him to lay his
authority upon Murari Reo, not to renew the attack
I have no doubt
that is the nizam
himself, with Bussy, gone up to reconnoitre the position. I wonder how
he likes the look of it. I wish we could have turfed the battery
above, and the newly stripped land. We might, in that case, have given
them a pleasant surprise. As it is, they are hardly likely to begin by
an attack along the slopes in the rear of the town, and you will see
that they will commence the attack at the farther face of the town.
The battery above cannot aid us in our defence there; and although the
castle may help, it will only be by a direct fire. If they try to
carry the place by a coup de main, I think we can beat them off, but
they must succeed by regular approaches.

"We must inflict as much loss as we can, and then fall back. However,
it will be sometime before that comes
What on earth is the matter
What vessels are
those, and why are you afraid of them
Tulagi Angria! Tulagi Angria
What is it, Mr. Charles, what on earth is the botheration about? Is
it the little ships they're afeared of
Those ships belong to a pirate called Tulagi Angria
and I am very much afraid, Tim, that we are likely to see the inside
of his fortress
But shure, yer honor, we're not afeared of those four little boats
We are, Tim, and very much afraid, too. Each of those boats, as you
call them, carries four or five times as many men as this ship. They
are well armed, while we have only those two little guns, which are
useless except for show. If the crew were Englishmen, we might attempt
a defence, although even then the odds would be terribly against us;
but with these natives, it is hopeless to think of it, and the attempt
would only ensure our throats being cut
It's mighty lucky
that yer honor left all your presents
to be forwarded to Madras. I thought you were wrong, Mr. Charles, when
you advised me to send them thousand rupees the rajah gave me, along
with your money. A hundred pounds wasn't a sum that Tim Kelly was
likely to handle again in a hurry, and it went agin the grain with me,
to part with them out of my hands. Sure and it's well I took yer
honor's advice
Keep up your spirits
It is a bad business, but we
must hope for the best. If we bide our time, we may see some chance of
escape. You had better lay down your arms in a pile, here. Then we
will sit down quietly, and await their coming on board. They will be
here in a minute, now
Who are you
I am an officer in the English Company's service
as
are these five natives. The other Englishman is a soldier, under my
orders
Good
Tulagi Angria will be glad
to have you. When your people capture any of our men, which is not
often, they hang them. Tulagi is glad to have people he can hang,
too
That's a big fight, Mr. Charles
It reminds me of
three big bulls in a meadow, attacked by a host of little curs
It does, Tim; but the curs can bite. What a fire they are keeping up.
But those warships ought to thrash any number of them. Count the
ports, I can see them now
The biggest one
has got twenty-five
Yes; and the others eighteen and nine. They are two frigates, one of
fifty and the other of thirty-six guns; and a sloop of eighteen. I
can't make out the colours, but I don't think they're English
They're not English, yer honor
or they would
soon make an end of them varmint that's tormenting them
This is mighty unpleasant, yer honor
Here we are, in the middle
of a fight in which we've no consarn whatever, and which is carried on
without asking our will or pleasure; and we are as likely to be killed
by a Christian shot, as these hathen niggers.

"Hear them yell, yer honor. A faction fight's nothing to it. Look, yer
honor, look! There's smoke curling up from a hatchway of the big ship.
If they haven't set her afire
She is doomed
Even if unmolested, the crew
could not extinguish the fire, now. It has got too much hold.

"Ah! The other frigate is on fire now
I should scarcely have believed it possible
that
three fine ships of war, mounting a hundred and four guns, could be
destroyed by a fleet of pirates, however numerous. Well, Tim, there is
no doubt that these natives can fight, when well led. It is just as
well, you see, that we did not attempt to offer any resistance, in
that clumsy craft we were on board
You're right there, yer honor. They would have aten us up in five
minutes. It makes my heart bleed, to think of the sailors of those two
fine ships. I don't believe that a soul has escaped; but in the small
one, some may have been taken prisoners
It's a bold thing, Tim, to attack this fortress with only two ships,
when the pirates have lately beaten a Dutch squadron mounting double
the number of guns
Ah, yer honor, but then there is the Union Jack floating at the
masthead. Do you think the creeturs don't know the differ
But the Dutchmen are good sailors, and fought well, Tim. I think the
difference is that in the last case they attacked the Dutch, while in
the present we are attacking them. It makes all the difference in the
world, with Indians. Let them attack you, and they'll fight bravely
enough. Go right at them, and they're done for.

"Look, the pirate fleet are already sailing away
And do you think the English will take the fort, yer honor
I don't know, Tim. The place is tremendously strong, and built on a
rock. There are guns which bear right down on the ships, if they
venture in close, while theirs will do but little damage to these
solidly built walls. Suwarndrug ought to resist a fleet ten times as
strong as that before us
Shure then, yer honor, and will we have to remain here all our lives,
do ye think
No, Tim, I hope not. Besides, I think that we ought to be able to
render some assistance to them
And how will we do it, yer honor? You have but to spake the word, and
Tim Kelly is ready to go through fire and water; and so is Hossein. Ye
may be shure of that
I am convinced
that if unaided from within, the ships
will have no chance whatever of taking this fortress; but I think that
we may help them. The upper fort, which contains the magazine,
commands the whole of the interior. But its guns do not bear upon the
ships where they are anchored. Probably the place, at present, is
almost deserted. As no one pays any attention to us, I propose, with
Tim Kelly and the ten English sailors, to seize it. We can close the
gate, and discharge the guns upon the defenders of the sea face. We
could not, of course, defend it for five minutes if they attacked us;
but we would threaten to blow up the magazine, if they did so.

"I propose that, tomorrow morning, you four and Hossein shall strip to
your loincloths, and just before it becomes light go along the walls,
and stop up, with pieces of wood, the touch holes of as many of the
cannon as you can. It would not do to use nails, even if we had them.
No one will notice, in the dark, that you are not Mahrattas; and if
you scatter about, you may each manage to close up four or five guns,
at least. It is, I know, a desperate service, and if discovered you
will be instantly killed. But if it succeeds the pirates, scared by
discovering, just as our ships open fire, that a number of their guns
are disabled; while we take them in the rear, from the fort behind,
may not improbably surrender at once. At any rate, it's worth trying;
and I, for one, would rather run the risk of being killed, than be
condemned to pass my life the slave of these pirates, who may at any
moment cut our throats, in case of any reverse happening to them
If you attack us, we will blow up the magazine. I have but to lift my
hand, and the magazine will be fired
I am Captain Marryat, sir, of the Company's service in Madras; and
was captured three months ago by these pirates. When you attacked the
place, yesterday, I arranged to effect a small diversion; and with the
assistance of these five native officers, of my soldier servant, here,
and these ten men of the merchant service, we have, I hope, been able
to do so. The native officers disabled the greater portion of the
guns, during the night; and when you opened fire this morning we
seized this inner work, which is also the magazine, and opened fire
upon the rear of the sea defences. By dint of our guns, and of menaces
to blow up the place if they assaulted it, we kept them at bay until
their flag was hauled down
Then, sir
I have to thank you, most
heartily, for the assistance you have given. In fact, it is you who
have captured the fortress. I was by no means prepared to find it so
strong; and, indeed, had come to the conclusion, last night, that the
force at my command was wholly insufficient for its capture.
Fortunately, I determined to try the effect of another day's fire.
But, had it not been for you, this would assuredly have been as
ineffectual as the first. You have, indeed, performed a most gallant
action; and I shall have great pleasure in reporting your conduct to
the authorities at home
Are we going to climb up to top of them mountains, your honor
No, Tim, fortunately for our horses. We shall skirt their foot, for a
hundred and fifty miles, till we get behind Gheriah
You wouldn't think that a horse could climb them
They
look as steep as the side of a house
In many places they are, Tim, but you see there are breaks in them.
At some points, either from the force of streams, or from the weather,
the rocks have crumbled away; and the great slopes, which everywhere
extend halfway up, reach the top. Zigzag paths are cut in these, which
can be travelled by horses and pack animals.

"There must be quantities of game
on the mountain sides
Quantities
Tigers and bears swarm there, and
are such a scourge that there are no villages within miles of the foot
of the hills. Even on the plateau above, the villages are few and
scarce near the edge, so great is the damage done by wild beasts.

"But that is not all. There are numerous bands of Dacoits, who set the
authority of the peishwar at defiance, plunder travellers and
merchants going up and down, make raids into the Deccan, and plunder
the low land nearly up to the gates of Bombay. Numerous expeditions
have been sent against them, but the Dacoits know every foot of the
hills. They have numerous, impregnable strongholds on the rocks; which
you can see rising sheer up hundreds of feet, from among the woods on
the slopes; and can, if pressed, shift their quarters, and move fifty
miles away among the trees, while the troops are, in vain, searching
for them
I suppose there is no chance of their attacking us
The Dacoit never fights if he can help it, and then only when driven
into a corner, or when there appears a chance of very large plunder.
He will always leave a strong party of armed men, from whom nothing
but hard blows is to be got, in peace
People in England, Mister Charles
turn up
their noses at the thought of living in tents, but what do they know
of them? The military tent is an uncomfortable thing, and as for the
gipsy tent, a dacent pig wouldn't look at it. Now this is like a
palace, with its carpet under foot, and its sides covered with silk
hangings, and its furniture fit for a palace. Father Murphy wouldn't
believe me, if I told him about it on oath. If this is making war, yer
honor, I shall be in no hurry for pace
Well, Mr. Charles
if you
want to go tiger hunting, Tim Kelly is not the boy to stay behind. But
shure, yer honor, if the creeturs will lave ye alone, why should you
meddle with them? I saw one in a cage at Arcot, and it's a baste I
shouldn't wish to see on a lone road on a dark night. It had a way of
wagging its tail that made you feel uncomfortable like, to the sole of
yer boots; and after looking at me for some time, the baste opened its
mouth, and gave a roar that shook the whole establishment. It's a
baste safer to let alone than to meddle with
But we shall be up on the top of an elephant. We shall be safe enough
there, you know
Maybe, yer honor
but I mind me that, when I
was a boy, me and my brother Peter was throwing sods at an old tomcat
of my mother's, who had stolen our dinners, and it ran up a wall ten
feet high. Well, yer honor, the tiger is as big as a hundred tomcats,
and by the same token he ought to be able to run up a wall
A thousand feet high, Tim? He can't do that. Indeed, I question
whether he could run up much higher than a cat.

"We are to start this evening, and shall be there by midnight. The
elephants have gone on ahead
The saints preserve us
a cat big
enough to carry off a mouse in her mouth as big as a bullock
It seems almost impossible, Tim, but it is a fact that tigers can
carry in their mouths full-sized bullocks, for considerable distances,
and that they can kill them with one stroke of their paw. However,
they are not as formidable as you would imagine, as you will see,
tomorrow
It's as bad as being at sea, Mr. Charles
It does roll about, Tim. You must let your body go with the motion,
just as on board ship. You will soon get accustomed to it
What on arth are they up to, Mr. Charles
They are driving the tiger this way, Tim. Now, sit quiet and keep a
sharp lookout, and be ready to hand me a rifle, the instant I have
fired
That baste has more sinse than we have
and would be off,
if that little black chap, astraddle of his neck, didn't keep on
patting his head
Why didn't you hand me the next rifle, Tim
It went clane out of my head, altogether. To think now, and you kilt
it in a moment. The tiger is a poor baste, anyhow. I've seen a cat
make ten times as strong a fight for its life.

"Holy Moses
It is dead, Tim
You needn't be afraid
And no wonder, yer honor, when I pitched, head first, smack onto his
stomach. It would have killed a horse
It might have done, Tim, but I don't think it would have killed a
tiger. Look there
I'd rather walk on my own feet, Mister Charles, than ride any more on
those great bastes. They're uncomfortable, anyhow. It's a long way to
fall, if the saddle goes round; and next time one might not find a
tiger handy, to light on
It is a nasty place
to get him from. The
beaters cannot get behind to drive him out, and the jungle is too
thick to penetrate
How do you intend to proceed
We will send a party to the top of the hill, and they will throw down
crackers. We have brought some rockets, too, which we will send in
from the other side. We will take our places, on our elephants, at the
foot of the terrace
I think
that he is badly hit. Listen to his
roarings
I expect that he's dead
I think so, too
but one can never be
certain. Let us draw off a little, and take our luncheon. After that,
we can try the fireworks again. If he will not move, then we must
leave him
But surely
we might go in and see whether he's dead
or not
A wounded tiger is a terrible foe
Better
leave him alone
Is he dead
He is dead, Sahib
Let the Sahib drink some
brandy, and he will be strong again
I thought
that one of
his legs must have been rendered useless. That was why he lay quiet so
long, in spite of our efforts to turn him out
Sahib
Ramajee Punt is thinking of cheating the English.
He is keeping Angria a prisoner. He says that he came into his camp
without asking for a safe conduct; and that, therefore, he shall
detain him.

"But this is not all. Angria has left his brother in command of the
fort; and Ramajee, by threatening Angria with instant execution, has
induced him to send an order to deliver the fort at once to him.
Ramajee wants, you see, Sahib, to get all the plunder of the fort for
himself, and his Mahrattas
This is very serious
and I must let the admiral
know, at once, what is taking place
We are in
for a furious tempest. It is the breaking up of
the monsoon. It is a fortnight earlier than usual. I had hoped that we
should have got safely up the Hoogly before it began
Well, captain
I congratulate you on
the behaviour of the ship. It has been a tremendous gale, and she has
weathered it stoutly
Yes, Captain Marryat, she has done well. I have only once or twice
been out in so severe a storm, since I came to sea
And where are we now
When shall we be at Madras
Well
I am afraid that you must give
up all idea of seeing Madras, just at present. We have been blown
right up the bay, and are only a few hours' sail from the mouth of the
Hoogly. I have a far larger cargo for that place than for Madras, and
it would be a pure waste of time for me to put back now. I intend,
therefore, to go to Calcutta first, discharge and fill up there, and
then touch at Madras on my way back.

"I suppose it makes no great difference to you
No, indeed
And I am by no means sorry of the
opportunity of getting a glimpse of Calcutta, which I might never
otherwise have done. I believe things are pretty quiet at Madras, at
present; and I have been so long away, now, that a month or two sooner
or later will make but little difference
The saints presarve us, Mr. Charles! Did you ever see the like
There's another dead body, floating down towards us,
and that is the eighth I've seen this morning. Are the poor hathen
craturs all committing suicide together
Not at all, Tim
the Hoogly is one of the sacred
rivers of India, and the people on its banks, instead of burying their
dead, put them into the river and let them drift away
I calls it a bastly custom, yer honor, and I wonder it is allowed.
One got athwart the cable this morning, and it frightened me nigh out
of my sinses, when I happened to look over the bow, and saw the thing
bobbing up and down in the water.

"This is tedious work, yer honor, and I'll be glad when we're at the
end of the voyage
I shall be glad, too, Tim. We have been a fortnight in the river
already. But I think there is a breeze getting up, and there is the
captain on deck, giving orders
Here is your bathroom
I think you will find everything ready. We dine in half an
hour
Up to the death of Ali Kerdy, the old viceroy of Bengal, on the 9th
April, we were on good terms with our native neighbours. Calcutta has
not been, like Madras, threatened by the rivalry of a European
neighbour. The French and Dutch, indeed, have both trading stations
like our own, but none of us have taken part in native affairs. Ali
Kerdy has been all powerful, there have been no native troubles, and
therefore no reason for our interference. We have just gone on as for
many years previously, as a purely trading company.

"At his death, he was succeeded in the government by Suraja Dowlah,
his grandson. I suppose, in all India, there is no prince with a worse
reputation than this young scoundrel has already gained for himself,
for profligacy and cruelty. He is constantly drunk, and is surrounded
by a crew of reprobates, as wicked as himself. At the death of Ali
Kerdy, Sokut Jung, another grandson of Ali, set up in opposition to
him, and the new viceroy raised a large force to march against him. As
the reputation of Sokut Jung was as infamous as that of his cousin, it
would have made little difference to us which of the two obtained the
mastery.

"Within the last few days, however, circumstances have occurred which
have completely altered the situation. The town of Dacca was, about a
year ago, placed under the governorship of Rajah Ragbullub, a Hindoo
officer in high favour with Ali Kerdy. His predecessor had been
assassinated and plundered, by order of Suraja Dowlah; and when he
heard of the accession of that prince, he determined at once to fly,
as he knew that his great wealth would speedily cause him to be marked
out as a victim. He therefore obtained a letter of recommendation from
Mr. Watts, the agent of the Company at their factory at Cossimbazar;
and sent his son Kissendas, with a large retinue, his family and
treasures, to Calcutta.

"Two or three days after his accession, Suraja Dowlah despatched a
letter to Mr. Drake, our governor, ordering him to surrender Kissendas
and the treasures immediately. The man whom he sent down arrived in a
small boat, without any state or retinue; and Mr. Drake, believing
that he was an impostor, paid no attention to the demand, but expelled
him from the settlement. Two days ago a letter came from the viceroy;
or, as we generally call him, the nabob, to Mr. Drake, ordering him
instantly to demolish all the fortifications which he understood he
had been erecting. Mr. Drake has sent word back, assuring the nabob
that he is erecting no new fortifications, but simply executing some
repairs in the ramparts facing the river, in view of the expected war
between England and France.

"That is all that has been done, at present; but, seeing the
passionate and overbearing disposition of this young scoundrel, there
is no saying what will come of it
But how do we stand here
What are the means of
defence, supposing he should take it into his head to march, with the
army which he has raised to fight against his cousin, to the attack of
Calcutta
Nothing could be worse than our position
Ever
since the capture of Madras, nine years ago, the directors have been
sending out orders that this place should be put in a state of
defence. During the fifty years which have passed peacefully here, the
fortifications have been entirely neglected. Instead of the space
round them being kept clear, warehouses have been built close against
them, and the fort is wholly unable to resist any attack. The
authorities of the Company here have done absolutely nothing to carry
out the orders from home. They think, I am sorry to say, only of
making money with their own trading ventures; and although several
petitions have been presented to them, by the merchants here, urging
upon them the dangers which might arise at the death of Ali, they have
taken no steps whatever, and indeed have treated all warnings with
scorn and derision
What force have we here
Only a hundred and seventy-four men, of whom the greater portion are
natives
What sort of man is your commander
We have no means of knowing
His name is Minchin.
He is a great friend of the governor's, and has certainly done nothing
to counteract the apathy of the authorities. Altogether, to my mind,
things look as bad as they possibly can
If I might be permitted to advise
every available
man in the town should be set to work, at once, pulling down all the
buildings around the walls. It would be clearly impossible to defend
the place when the ramparts are, on all sides, commanded by the
musketry fire of surrounding buildings
I know what my duty is, sir
and do not
require to be taught it, by so very young an officer as yourself
Very well, sir
I have seen a great deal
of service, and have taken part in the defence of two besieged towns;
while you, I believe, have never seen a shot fired. However, as you're
in command you will, of course, take what steps you think fit; but I
warn you that, unless those buildings are destroyed, the fort cannot
resist an assault for twenty-four hours
Drake is a fool
Just as, hitherto, he has scoffed at all
thought of danger, now he is prostrated at the news that danger is at
hand. He can decide on nothing. At one moment he talks of sending
messengers to Suraja Dowlah, to offer to pay any sum he may demand, in
order to induce him to retire; the next he talks of defending the fort
to the last. We can get him to give no orders, to decide on nothing,
and the other officials are equally impotent and imbecile
Have you seen them safely off
My wife has gone
My daughter is still here. There
has been a horrible scene of confusion. Although the boats were amply
sufficient to carry all, no steps whatever had been taken to secure
order. The consequence was, there was a wild rush. Women and children
were knocked down and trampled upon. They leaped into the boats in
such wild haste that several of these were capsized, and numbers of
people drowned. I kept close to my wife and child, till we reached the
side of the stream. I managed to get my wife into a boat, and then a
rush of people separated me from my daughter; and before I could find
her again, the remaining boats had all pushed off. Many of the men
have gone with them, and among them, I am ashamed to say, several of
the officers.

"However, I trust the boats will come up again tomorrow, and take away
the rest. Two have remained, a guard having been placed over them, and
I hope to get Ada off to her mother, in the morning
What do you think
Those cowardly villains, Drake and
Minchin, have taken the two boats, and gone off on board ship
Impossible
It is too true
The names of these cowards should
be held as infamous, as long as the English nation exists.

"Come, now, we are just assembling to choose a commander. Mr. Peeks is
the senior agent; but I think we shall elect Mr. Holwell, who is an
energetic and vigorous man
It is impossible, sir
that the fort can hold out; for in
another three or four days, the whole of the garrison will be killed.
The only hope of safety is for the ships to come up, and remove the
garrison, which they can do without the slightest danger to
themselves. If you will allow me, sir, I will swim down to the ships,
and represent our situation. Cowardly and inhuman as Mr. Drake has
proved himself, he can hardly refuse to give orders for the fleet to
move
I don't know
After the way in which he has
behaved, there are no depths of infamy of which I believe him
incapable. But you are my right hand here. Supposing Mr. Drake
refuses, you could not return
I will come back, sir
I will, if there be no
other way, make my way along by the river bank. It is comparatively
free of the enemy, as our guns command it. If you will place Mr.
Haines at the corner bastion, with a rope, he will recognize my voice,
and I can regain the fort
I have come, sir
from Mr. Holwell; who
has, in your absence, been elected to the command of the fort. He bids
me tell you that our losses have been already very heavy, and that it
is impossible that the fort can hold out for more than twenty-four
hours longer. He begs you, therefore, to order up the ships tonight,
in order that the garrison may embark
It is quite out of the question
Quite. It
would be extremely dangerous.

"You agree with me, Captain Young, that it would be most dangerous
I consider that it would be dangerous
And you call yourself
a British
sailor! You talk of danger, and would desert a thousand men, women,
and children, including two hundred of your own countrymen, and leave
them at the mercy of an enemy
You forget whom you are speaking to, sir
I forgot nothing, sir
Then, sir, Mr. Holwell has charged me that if -- which, however, he
could not believe for a moment to be possible -- you refuse to move up
the ships to receive the garrison on board, that you would at least
order all the boats up, as these would be amply sufficient to carry
them away. Even in the daytime there would be no danger for the ships;
and at night, at least, boats might come up, without being exposed to
any risk whatever
I shall certainly do nothing of the sort
The
danger is even greater for the boats than for the ships
And am I, sir, to return to the garrison of that fort, with the news
that you utterly desert them, that you intend to remain quietly here,
while they are sacrificed before your eyes? Is it possible that you
are capable of such infamy as this
Infamy
I place you in arrest at once, for your insolence
I despise your arrest, as I do yourself.

"I did not believe it possible
and England will not believe, that three
Englishmen so cowardly, so infamous as yourselves, are to be found.

"As for you, Captain Minchin, if ever after this I come across you, I
will flog you publicly first, and shoot you afterwards like a dog, if
you dare to meet me.

"As for you, Mr. Drake -- as for you, Captain Young -- you will be doomed
to infamy, by the contempt and loathing which Englishmen will feel,
when this deed is known.

"Cowards; base, infamous cowards
Seize him
Now
if either of you hounds move a finger, I'll brain
you
It is all over with me
Poor little Ada. Do all you
can for her, Marryat. God knows what fate is in store for her
I will protect her with my life, sir
Where is papa, Captain Marryat
Tim, my boy
we may say goodbye to
each other now, for I doubt if one will be alive, when the door is
opened in the morning
I think, yer honor
that if we could get nearer to the
window, we might breathe a little more easily
Ay, Tim; but there will be a fight for life round that window, before
long. You and I might hold our own, if we could get there, though it
would be no easy matter where all are struggling for life; but this
poor little girl would be crushed to death. Besides, I believe that
what chance there is, faint as it may be, is greater for us here than
there. The rush towards the window, which is beginning already, as you
see, will grow greater and greater; and the more men struggle and
strive, the more air they require.

"Let us remain where we are. Strip off your coat and waistcoat, and
breathe as quietly and easily as you can. Every hour the crowd will
thin, and we may yet hold on till morning
How are you feeling, Ada
It's hot, isn't it
It is dreadful
and I seem choking from want of
air; and oh, Captain Marryat, I am so thirsty
It is hot, my dear, terribly hot, but we must make the best of it;
and I hope, in a few days, you will join your mamma on board ship.
That will be pleasant, won't it
Where is papa
I don't know where he is now, my child. At any rate, we must feel
very glad that he's not shut up here, with us. Now take your bonnet
off, and your shawl, and undo the hooks of your dress, and loosen
everything you can. We must be as quiet and cheerful as possible. I'm
afraid, Ada, we have a bad time before us tonight. But try to keep
cheerful and quiet; and above all, dear, pray God to give you strength
to carry you through it, and to restore you safe to your mamma, in a
few days
Half the night must be gone, Tim
and I think, with
God's help, we shall live through it. The numbers are lessening fast,
and every one who goes leaves more air for the rest of us.

"Cheer up, Ada dear, 'twill not be very long till morning
I think I shall die soon
I shall never see papa
or mamma again. You have been very kind, Captain Marryat, but it is no
use
Oh, but it is of use
I don't mean to let
you die at all, but to hand you over to mamma, safe and sound. There,
lay your head against me, dear, and say your prayers, and try and go
off to sleep
She has fainted, Tim
Help me to raise her well in my
arms, and lay her head on my shoulder. That's right. Now, you'll find
her shawl somewhere under my feet; hold it up, and make a fan of it.
Now, try to send some air into her face
Tim
you are now much stronger than most of them.
They are faint from the struggles. Make a charge to the window. Take
that little shawl and dip it into the bowl, or whatever they have
there, and then fight your way back with it
I will do it, yer honor
Hossein
more water, for God's sake! The master's
alive yet
Let the infidel dogs howl
They shall have no more
Thank God, yer honor, here it is
and who should have
brought it, but Hossein. Shure, yer honor, we both owe our lives to
him this time, for I'm sure I should have been choked by thirst,
before morning
That is delicious
That is delicious
Our only hope
is in Hossein. I am sure he
will follow us to the death; and if he did but know where we are
confined, he would not, I am certain, rest day or night, till he had
opened a communication with us.

"See, Tim, there is my regimental cap, with its gold lace. Let us
fasten it outside the bars, with a thread from that rug. Of course, we
must remove it when we hear anyone coming
Mr. Charles
there is a
man I've been watching, for the last half hour. He seems to be picking
up sticks, but all the while he keeps getting nearer and nearer, and
two or three times it seems to me that he has looked up in this
direction
Yes, Tim, you are right. That's Hossein, I'm pretty sure
And what's to be done next, Mister Charles? That's Hossein, sure
enough, but it don't bring us much nearer to getting out
The first thing is to communicate with him in some way, Tim
If he'd come up to the side of the moat, yer honor might spake to
him
That would never do, Tim. There are sure to be sentries on the walls
of the prison. We must trust to him. He can see the sentries, and will
know best what he can do
I will write
fortunately I have a pencil -- telling
him that we can lower a light string down to the moat, if he can
manage to get underneath with a cord which we can hoist up, and that
he must have two disguises in readiness
I don't think Hossein can read
any more than I can,
myself
I daresay not, Tim, but he will probably have friends in the town.
There are men who were employed in the English factory at Kossimbazar,
hard by. These will be out of employment, and will regret the
expulsion of the English. We can trust Hossein. At any rate, I will
get it ready.

"Now the first thing we have to do is to loosen one of these bars. I
wish we had thought of doing it before. However, the stonework is
pretty rotten, and we shall have no difficulty about that. The first
thing is to get a tool of some sort
Divil a bit of iron do I see in the place, Mister Charles
They don't even give us a knife for dinner, but stew all their meats
into a smash
There is something, Tim
Look at
those long hinges
If you have a bar loosed, pull the string and haul up a rope. If not,
throw the arrow down. I will come again, tomorrow night
Can you swim, Tim
Not a stroke, yer honor. Shure you should know that, when you fished
me out of the water
Very well, Tim. As I kept you up then, 'twill be easy enough for me,
now, to take you across the moat. I will go first, and when I get into
the water, will keep hold of the rope till you come down. Take off
your boots, for they would be heard scraping against the wall. Be sure
you make as little noise as possible, and lower yourself quietly into
the water
Shure I'll never get to the bottom at all, my arms are fairly
breaking. I shall squash Mr. Charles, if I fall on him
Hold your tongue, Tim
Tim, you clumsy fellow
you nearly spoiled all
Shure, yer honor, I was kilt entirely, and my arms were pulled out of
my sockets. Holy Mother, who'd have thought 'twould be so difficult to
come down a rope! The sailors are great men, entirely
Now, Tim, lie quiet. I will turn you on your back, and swim across
with you
Now, Tim, you climb up first
Is it climb up, yer honor? I couldn't do it, if it was to save my
sowl. My arms are gone altogether, and I'm as weak as a child.

"You go, Mister Charles. I'll hould on by the rope till morning. They
can but shoot me
Nonsense, Tim! Here, I will fasten the rope round your body. Then I
will climb up, and we will pull you up after me
Where are you taking us, Hossein
I have two peasants' dresses, in a deserted cottage a quarter of a
mile away
My life is my lord's
He gave it me. It is
his again, whenever it is useful to him
No, Hossein, the balance is all on your side, now. You saved my life
that night at Ambur. You saved it that night at Calcutta, for, without
the water you brought us, I question whether we could have lived till
morning. Now you have procured our freedom. The debt is all on my side
now, my friend
Hossein is glad that his lord is content
Now, what will my lord do
Have you any place in the town to which we could go, Hossein
Yes, Sahib. I hired a little house. I was dressed as a trader. I have
been here for two months, but I could not find where you were
confined, although I have tried all means, until I saw your cap
It was foolish of me not to have thought of it before
Well, Hossein, for a little time we had better take refuge in your
house. They will not think of searching in the city; and, as Calcutta
is in their hands, there is nowhere we could go. Besides, I must
discover, if possible, where Miss Haines is kept a prisoner; and
rescue her, if it can be done
The white girl is in the zenana of Rajah Dulab Ram
Where is the rajah's palace
He has one in the city, one at Ajervam, twenty miles from here. I do
not know at which she is lodged
We must find that out presently
It is something to
know she is in one of two houses.

"Now, about getting back into the town
I have thought of that
I have bought a quantity of
plantains, and two large baskets. After the gates are opened, you will
go boldly in with the baskets on your heads. No questions are asked of
the country people who go in and out. I have some stain here, which
will darken your skins.

"I will go in first in my merchant's dress, which I have here. I will
stop a little way inside the gate, and when I see you coming, will
walk on. Do you follow me, a little behind. My house is in a quiet
street. When I reach the door, do you come up and offer to sell me
plantains. If there are people about, I shall bargain with you until I
see that no one is noticing us. Then you can enter. If none are about,
you can follow me straight in
I feel mighty quare
and it seems to me downright
ondacent, to be walking about with my naked legs
Why, Tim, you are accustomed to see thousands of men, every day, with
nothing on but a loincloth
Yes, yer honor, but then they're hathens, and it seems natural for
them to do so; but for a dacent boy to go walking about in the
streets, with a thing on which covers no more than his shirt, is
onnatural altogether. Mother of Moses, what a shindy there would be,
in the streets of Cork, if I were to show myself in such a state
My lord's room is upstairs
I think that you might stay here,
for months, unsuspected. A sweeper comes, every day, to do my rooms
downstairs. He believes the rest of the house to be untenanted, and
you must remain perfectly quiet, during the half hour he is here.
Otherwise, no one enters the house but myself
She is here, Sahib
I got into conversation with one of
the retainers of the rajah; and by giving him some wonderful bargains,
in Delhi jewelry, succeeded in opening his lips. I dare not question
him too closely, but I am to meet him tomorrow, to show him some more
silver bracelets
It is fortunate, Hossein, that you have some money, for neither Tim
nor I have a rupee
Thanks to the generosity of my lord
I am well
supplied
I hear, however
that the ladies of the zenana are, next
week, going to the rajah's other palace. The ladies will, of course,
travel in palanquins; but upon the road I might get to talk with one
of the waiting women, and might bribe her to pass a note into the
hands of the white lady
I suppose they will have a guard with them, Hossein
Surely, a strong guard
My dear Ada,

"I am free, and am on the lookout for an opportunity to rescue you.
Contrive to put a little bit of your handkerchief through the
latticework of the window of your room, as a signal to us which it is.
On the second night after your arrival, we will be under it with a
ladder. If others, as is probable, sleep in your room, lie down
without undressing more than you can help. When they are asleep, get
up and go to the window, and open the lattice. If any of them wake,
say you are hot and cannot sleep, and wait quietly till they are off
again. Then stretch out your arm, and we shall know you are ready.
Then we will put up the ladder, and you must get out, and come to us
as quickly as possible. Once with us, you will be safe
They are sure to stop here, for a rest
I will remain
here, and try to enter into conversation with one of them. It will be
better for you to go on, for some distance, and then turn aside from
the road. When they have all passed, come back into the road again,
and I will join you
Would you like to buy this
How should I buy it
I am only a servant.

"It is very beautiful
I have two of them
and they will both be yours, if you
will do me a service
What is it
They will be yours, if you will give this quill to the little white
girl, who is in the zenana
It is dangerous
Not at all
It only gives her news of a friend,
whom she thought was dead. It will cheer her heart, and will be a kind
action. None can ever know it
Give them to me
I will do
it
No
I will give you one now, the other when I know
that the note is delivered. I shall be watching, tomorrow. If she
places her handkerchief in her lattice, I shall know that she has got
it. When she does this, I will bury the other bracelet, a few inches
in the ground, just under that window. You can dig it up when you
will
I understand
You can trust me. We all like the
white girl. She is very gentle, but very sad. I would gladly give her
pleasure
I am here, dear
Lean out, and I will take
you
Of course, I can't see you very well
but I should not
have known you, in the least
No, I am got up like a peasant
We shall have to
dress you so, before morning. We have got things here for you
Oh, how delighted I was
when I got your note! I
found it so difficult to keep on looking sad and hopeless, when I
could have sung for joy. I had been so miserable. There seemed no
hope, and they said, some day, I should be sent to the nabob's
zenana -- wretches! How poor mamma will be grieving for me, and papa!--

"Ah! Captain Marryat, he is dead, is he not
Yes, my dear
He was killed by my side, that
afternoon. With his last breath, he asked me to take care of you
I thought so
I did not think of it at
the time. Everything was so strange, and so dreadful, that I scarcely
thought at all. But afterwards, on the way here, when I turned it all
over, it seemed to me that it must be so. He did not come to me, all
that afternoon. He was not shut up with us in that dreadful place, and
everyone else was there. So it seemed to me that he must have been
killed, but that you did not like to tell me
It was better for him, dear, than to have died in that terrible cell.
Thank God your mamma is safe, and some day you will join her again.

"We have news that the English are coming up to attack Calcutta. A
party are already in the Hoogly; and the nabob is going to start, in a
few days, to his army there. I hope, in a very very short time, you
will be safe among your friends
Go in there
and stay till nightfall. Do you then come
out, and follow me. I shall go into the next village, and remain there
till after dark. I shall then start, and wait for you half a mile
beyond the village
Did you put the rajah's men on the wrong track, Hossein? We guessed
that you had done so, when we saw them going back
Yes
I had unyoked the bullocks, and had lain down in
the caravanserai, when they arrived. They came in, and their leader
asked who I was. I said that I was taking down a load of grain, for
the use of the army at Calcutta. He asked where were the two men and
the woman who were with me. I replied that I knew nothing of them. I
had overtaken them on the road, and they had asked leave for the woman
to ride in the cart. They said they were going to visit their mother,
who was sick.

"He asked if I was sure they were natives, and I counterfeited
surprise, and said that certainly they were; for which lie Allah will,
I trust, be merciful, since it was told to an enemy. I said that they
had left me, just when we had passed the last village; and had turned
off by the road to the right, saying they had many miles to go.

"They talked together and decided that, as you were the only people
who had been seen along the road, they must follow and find you; and
so started at once, and I daresay they're searching for you now, miles
away
I shall now
go into the town, sell my grain, bullocks,
and cart, and find out where the soldiers are
Mamma,
Mamma
You know, Charlie, I suppose
that you are a
major now
No, indeed
How is that
When the directors at home received the report of Commodore James,
that the fort of Suwarndrug had been captured entirely through you,
they at once sent out your appointment as major.

"You are lucky, old fellow. Here are you a major, while I'm a
lieutenant, still. However, don't think I'm jealous, for I'm not a
bit, and you thoroughly deserve all, and more than you've got
And this is Tim
He has shared all my adventures with
me
I am glad to see you, Tim, very glad. And so you've been with Major
Marryat, ever since
For the Lord's sake, Mr. Peters
git me a pair of trousers. I'm that ashamed of myself, in the
presence of the ladies, that I'm like to drop
Come along below, Tim. Come along, Charlie. There are lots of poor
fellows have gone down, and uniforms are plentiful. We'll soon rig you
out again
There is one more introduction, Peters. This is my man, Hossein. He
calls himself my servant. I call him my friend. He has saved my life
twice, and has been of inestimable service. Had it not been for him, I
should still be in prison at Moorshedabad
Major Marryat
if we fall back now, fatigued as the men
are, and shaken by this surprise, we are lost. Do you take a wing of
the Sepoy battalion, and clear the right bank. I will advance, with
the main body, directly on the village
Come on, my lads
show them how
the men of Madras can fight
The fort is mine
Well, if I am flogged for this here action, I will never take another
fort, by myself, as long as I live
Run back, Tim
Find Colonel Clive, and tell him that
we are being mowed down by our own artillery. If you can't find him,
hurry back to the guns, and tell the officer what he is doing
Native man never work like that, sahib. Not when he's paid ever so
much. Work still less, no pay. The French would soon notice the sahib,
if he laboured like that
Shure, yer honor, Hossein is in despair. The water has filled up the
holes, where he makes his fires, and the rain has soaked the wood. Yer
dinner is not near cooked yet, and half the dishes are spoilt
It does not matter a bit, Tim
You know I'm not
particular about my eating, though Hossein will always prepare a
dinner fit for an alderman
We are going to fight them tomorrow, yer honor, I hope
It's sick to death I am of wading about here in the wet, like a duck.
It's as bare as the bogs of ould Ireland, without the blessings of the
pigs and potatoes, to say nothing of the colleens
No, Tim, I'm afraid we're going to stop where we are, for a bit. The
council of war have decided not to fight
Shure and that's bad news
The worst I've heard for many
a day. What if there be fifty thousand of 'em, Mister Charles, haven't
we bate 'em at long odds before, and can't we do it agin
I think we could, Tim
but the odds of fifty-three
heavy cannon, which the spies say they've got, to our ten popguns, is
serious. However, I'm sorry we're not going to fight, and I'm afraid
that you must make up your mind to the wet, and Hossein his to giving
me bad dinners for some weeks to come; that is to say, if the enemy
don't turn us out of this
Is it true, Charlie, that we are not going to fight, after all
True enough
We are to wait till the rains are over
Rains
what have the rains got to do with
it? If we had a six weeks' march before us, I could understand the wet
weather being a hindrance. Men are not water rats, and to march all
day in these heavy downpours, and to lie all night in the mud, would
soon tell upon our strength. But here we are, within a day's march of
the enemy, and the men might as well get wet in the field as here.
Everyone longs to be at the enemy, and a halt will have a very bad
effect.

"What have you got to drink, Charlie
I have some brandy and rum; nothing else
But what
will be better than either for you is a cup of tea. Hossein makes it
as well as ever. I suppose you have dined
Yes, half an hour ago
Marryat, the chief has changed his mind. We cross the river the first
thing in the morning, and move at once upon Plassey
Hurrah
Clive is himself again. That is good news,
indeed
You will move your Sepoys down to the river at daybreak, and will be
the first to cross. There is no chance of any opposition, as the spies
tell us that the nabob has not arrived yet at Plassey
Here, major
I have brought in half a dozen bottles
of champagne. I started with a dozen from Calcutta, and had intended
to keep these to celebrate our victory. But as, in the first place,
all heavy baggage is to be left here; and in the second, it has
occurred to me that possibly I may not come back to help to drink it;
we may as well turn it to the good purpose of drinking success to the
expedition
This is dog's work, Mister Charles
It's lucky that it's
raining, for the river can't make us wetter than we are. My hands are
fairly sore, with pulling at the ropes
Ah, Tim, you're not fond of ropes, you know. You remember that night
at Moorshedabad
Faith, yer honor, and I'll not forget it, if I live to be as old as
Methuselah. Well, yer honor, it will be hard on us if we do not thrash
them niggers, tomorrow, after all the trouble we are taking to be at
them
There are the enemy, sure enough
That old rascal,
Meer Jaffier, must have been deceiving us when he said that the nabob
had halted at Mankarah. I'm afraid he means to play us false
I expect
that he does not know what he means,
himself. These Asiatics are at any time ready to turn traitors, and to
join the strongest. At present, Jaffier does not know what is the
stronger; and I think it likely enough that he will take as little
share as he can in the battle, tomorrow, till he sees which way it is
going. Then, if we are getting the best of it, the rascal will join
us, for the sake of the advantages which he expects to gain. If the
day is going against us, he will do his best to complete his master's
victory; and should proofs of his intended treachery ever come to
light, he will clear himself by saying that he intended to deceive us
all along, and merely pretended to treat with us, in order to throw us
off our guard, and so deliver us into the hands of his master
Yes
These Mohammedan chiefs are indeed
crafty and treacherous rascals. The whole history of India shows that
gratitude is a feeling altogether unknown to them; and that, whatever
favours a master may have lavished upon them, they are always ready to
betray him, if they think that by so doing they will better their
position.

"Now I shall lie down, and try to get a few hours' sleep before
morning. I am wet to the skin, but fortunately in these sultry nights
that matters little
I must go my rounds
and see that the sentries are on
the alert. If the men were not so tired, I should have said that the
best plan would have been to make a dash straight at the enemy's camp.
It would take them quite unprepared, even if they know, as I daresay
they do, that we are close at hand; and they would lose all the
advantage of their artillery
Yes, if we had arrived an hour before sunset, so as to be able to
learn something of the nature of the ground, that would be our best
course
But, even if the troops had been fresh,
a night attack on an unknown position is a hazardous undertaking.

"Good night. I must see Clive, and take his last orders
Jaffier, you must defend that turban
Marryat
I must send you back, with two hundred men, to
Madras. The governor there has been writing to me, by every ship which
has come up the coast, begging me to move down with the bulk of the
force, as soon as affairs are a little settled here. That is out of
the question. There are innumerable matters to be arranged. Meer
Jaffier must be sustained. The French under Law must be driven
entirely out of Bengal. The Dutch must be dealt with. Altogether, I
have need of every moment of my time, and of every man under my
orders, for at least two years.

"However, I shall at once raise a Bengal native army, and so release
the Sepoys of Madras. If there be any special and sore need, I must,
of course, denude myself here of troops, to succour Madras; but I hope
it will not come to that. In the meantime, I propose that you shall
take back two hundred of the Madras Europeans. Lawrence will be glad
to have you, and your chances of fighting are greater there than they
will be here. Bengal is overawed, and so long as I maintain the force
I now have, it is unlikely in the extreme to rise; whereas battles and
sieges, great and small, are the normal condition of Madras
I have thought for some time
that the establishment
of a small force of really efficient cavalry, trained to act as
infantry, also, would be invaluable. The Mahratta horsemen, by their
rapid movements, set our infantry in defiance; and the native horse of
our allies are useless against them. I am convinced that two hundred
horsemen, trained and drilled like our cavalry at home, would ride
through any number of them. In a country like this, where every petty
rajah has his castle, cavalry alone could, however, do little. They
must be able to act as infantry, and should have a couple of little
four-pounders to take about with them. A force like this would do more
to keep order in the Carnatic than one composed of infantry, alone, of
ten times its strength. It could act as a police force, call upon
petty chiefs who refuse to pay their share of the revenue, restore
order in disturbed places, and permit the peasants to carry on their
agricultural work, upon which the revenue of the Company depends; and,
altogether, render valuable services.

"Among the soldiers who came down with me is a sergeant who was at one
time a trooper in an English regiment. He exchanged to come out with
the 39th to India, and has again exchanged into the Company's service.
I would make him drill instructor, if you will give him a commission
as ensign. Peters I should like as my second in command; and, if you
approve of the plan, I should be very much obliged if you would get
him his step as captain. He's a good officer, but has not had such
luck as I have
Sahib
something is the matter with Tim
What is the matter
I do not know, sahib. When I went to him, he did not move. He was
wide awake, and his eyes are staring. When I went beside him, he shook
his head a little, and said, 'S-s-s-h.' He seems quite rigid, and is
as pale as death
S-s-s-h
What is the matter, Tim? What is the matter, my poor fellow
There is a sarpent in bed with me
Are you quite sure, Tim
He woke me with his cold touch
I felt him crawling
against my foot, and now he is laying against my leg
Lie quite still, Tim
and don't be afraid. We will try to
kill him, without his touching you; but even if he should bite you,
with help ready at hand, there will be no danger
I am heartily glad that you have come, Marryat
I have got here at last, as you see, but that is
a very different thing from getting in. An uglier place to attack I
never saw; and in other respects, matters are not bright.

"Anandraz is a constant worry and trouble to me. He has everything to
gain by our success, and yet will do nothing to aid it. His men are
worse than useless in fight, and the only thing which we want and he
could give us -- money -- he will not let us have.

"Will you ride with me, to the spot where I'm erecting my batteries,
and you will see the prospect for yourself
Well, Mister Charles
this is altogether a
quare sort of a siege. Here we are, with a place in front of us with
ten times as many guns as we have got, and a force well nigh twice as
large. Even if there were no walls, and no guns, I don't see how we
could get at 'em, barring we'd wings, for this bog is worse than
anything in the ould country. Then behind us we've got another army,
which is, they say, with the garrisons of the forts, as strong as we
are. We've got little food and less money, and the troops are
grumbling mightily, I can tell you
I'm afraid, yer honor
that
there's going to be a shindy
What do you mean by a shindy, Tim
I mane, yer honor, that the men are cursing and swearing, and saying
the divil a bit will they fight any longer. It's rank mutiny and
rebellion, yer honor; but there's something to be said for the poor
boys. They have seen all the prize money they have taken spent. Not a
thraneen have they touched for months. Their clothes are in rags, and
here they are before a place which there's no more chance of their
taking than there is of their flying up to the clouds. And now they
hear that, besides the French behind us, there's the nizam with forty
thousand of his men marching against us. It's a purty kettle of fish
altogether, yer honor.

"It isn't for myself I care, Mr. Charles. Haven't I got an order in my
pocket, on the treasury at Madras, for three hundred pound and over;
but it's mighty hard, yer honor, just when one has become a wealthy
man, to be shut up in a French prison
Well, Tim, I hope there will be no trouble; but I own that things
look bad
Hossein has been saying, yer honor, that he thinks that the best way
would be for him and me to go out and chop off the heads of half a
dozen of the chief ringleaders. But I thought I'd better be after
asking yer honor's pleasure in the affair, before I set about it
I suppose you have heard, Marryat, that that scoundrel Anandraz has
bolted. Ride off to him with your troop, and do your best to persuade
him to return
I will do so, sir
but really, it seems to me that we
are better without him than with him. His men only consume our
provisions, and cause trouble, and they are no more good fighting than
so many sheep
That is so
But in the first place, his five
thousand men, absolutely worthless as they are, swell our forces to a
respectable size. If Conflans and Du Rocher saw how small is our
really fighting body, they would fall upon us together, and annihilate
us. In the second place, if Anandraz goes to the nizam he will at
once, of course, declare for the French, and will give up Vizapatam
and the rest of the ground we won by the battle of Condore. The whole
of the fruits of the campaign would be lost, and we should only hold
that portion of the Northern Sirkars on which our troops here are
encamped
I beg your pardon, Colonel
You are right, and I am
wrong. I will start at once
I am come, Rajah
from Colonel Forde, to point out to you
the folly of the course which you have pursued. By the line which you
have taken so far, it is evidently your intention to cross the
Godavery, and retire to your own country. What chance have you of
accomplishing this? By this time, the cavalry of the nizam will be
scattered over the whole country between this and the Godavery. At
Rajahmahendri is Du Rocher, with his army, who will take you in flank.
Even supposing that you reach your own country, what is the future
open to you? If the English are finally successful, they will deprive
you of your rank and possessions for deserting them now. If the French
are victorious, they and the nizam will then turn their attention to
you; and you cannot hope to escape with life, when your treason has
brought such troubles upon them
No more words are needed. I have made up my mind
And so have I
Take this man
to that tree,
and hang him at once. Cut down any of these fellows who move a
finger
Now, Rajah
you either give instant orders for your
army to march back to Masulipatam, or up you go on that branch above
there
Now, Rajah, we will ride on. We will say no more about this little
affair, and I will ask Colonel Forde to forgive your ill behaviour in
leaving him. But mind, if at any future time you attempt to disobey
his orders, or to retire from the camp, I will blow out your brains;
even if I have to follow you, with my men, into the heart of your own
palace
Shure, yer honor
this is worse than the day
before Plassey. It was water then, but this thick mud houlds one's
legs fast at every step. I've lost one of my boots, already
A mine
Major Marryat
will you rally these fellows,
and bring them after me. They've been frightened with a false alarm of
a mine, and have lost their heads altogether
Unless
in one minute the whole of you are formed up ready
to advance, I will take care that not one shall have a share in the
prize money that will be won tonight
There
that is your doing. Now retrieve
yourselves. Show you are worthy of the name of British soldiers
Have you heard from home lately
Yes
There was a large batch of letters lying for me,
at Madras. My eldest sister, who has now been married three years, has
just presented me with a second nephew. Katie and my mother are well
Your sister is not engaged yet
No. Katie says she's quite heart whole at present. Let me see -- how
old is she now? It is just eight years and a half since we left
England, and she was twelve years old then. She is now past twenty.

"She would do nicely for you, Peters, when you go back. It would be
awfully jolly, if you two were to fall in love with each other
I feel quite disposed to do so
from your
descriptions of her. I've heard so much of her, in all the time we've
been together; and she writes such bright merry letters, that I seem
to know her quite well
I hope, yer honor, that whin the troop's disbanded, you will be going
home for a bit, yourself
I intend to do so, Tim. I have been wanting to get away, for the last
two years, but I did not like to ask for leave until everything was
settled here. And what is more, when I once get back, I don't think
they will ever see me in India again. I have sufficient means to live
as a wealthy man in England, and I've seen enough fighting to last a
lifetime
Hooroo
That's the best word I've heard for a long
time. And I shall settle down as yer honor's butler, and look after
the grand house, and see that you're comfortable
You must never leave me, Tim, that's certain
At
least, till you marry and set up an establishment of your own
If I can't marry without leaving yer honor, divil a wife will Tim
Kelly ever take
Wait till you see the right woman, Tim. There is no saying what the
strongest of us will do, when he's once caught in a woman's net.
However, we'll talk of that when the time comes
And there's Hossein, yer honor. Fire and water wouldn't keep him away
from you, though what he'll do in the colds of the winter at home is
more than I know. It makes me laugh to see how his teeth chatter, and
how the creetur shivers of a cold morning, here. But, cold or no cold,
he'd follow you to the north pole, and climb up it if yer honor told
him
He is safe not to be put to the test there, Tim. However, you may be
sure that if Hossein is willing to go to England with me, he shall go.
He has saved my life more than once; and you and he shall never part
from me, so long as you are disposed to stay by my side
I am sorry to leave them
We have gone through a lot of stirring work
together, and no fellows could have behaved better
No
It is singular that, contemptible as are these
natives of India when officered by men of their own race and religion,
they will fight to the death when led by us
It does seem strange
that when such mighty
interests were at stake, a body of even ten thousand troops could not
have been raised, and sent out. Such a force would have decided the
struggle at once; and in three months the great possessions, which
have cost the Company twelve years' war, would have been at their
feet. It would not have cost them more; indeed, nothing like as much
as it now has done, nor one tithe of the loss in life. Somehow,
England always seems to make war in driblets
Charlie
Hullo
Why,
there are three of you! What on earth am I doing? I have somebody's
pardon to beg; and yet, although your faces are changed, they seem
equally familiar to me. Which is it?

"But I need not ask
You are Katie
and you are Lizzie, certainly, and this
is -- why, it is Ada!

"This is a surprise, indeed; but I sha'n't beg your pardon, Ada, for I
kissed you at parting, and quite intended to do so when I met again,
at least if you had offered no violent objection.

"How you are all grown and changed, while you, Mother, look scarcely
older than when I left you.

"But there, I have quite forgotten Peters. He has come home with me,
and will stay till he has formed his own plans
Ah! Nephew
wilful lads will go their own way. I wanted to make a rich
merchant of you, and you have made of yourself a famous soldier. But
you've not done badly for yourself after all; for you have, in your
letters, often talked about prize money
Yes, Uncle. I have earned, in my way, close upon a hundred thousand
pounds; and I certainly shouldn't have made that if I had stuck to the
office at Madras, even with the aid of the capital you offered to lend
me, to trade with on my own account
And you're not thinking of going back again, Charlie
There can be no longer any reason for your exposing
yourself to that horrible climate, and that constant fighting
The climate is not so bad, Mother, and the danger and excitement of a
soldier's life there, at present, render it very fascinating. But I
have done with it. Peters and I intend, on the expiration of our
leave, to resign our commissions in the Company's service, and to
settle down under our own vines and fig trees. Tim has already elected
himself to the post of my butler, and Hossein intends to be my valet
and body servant
And how is it you haven't married, Katie? With such a pretty face as
yours, it is scandalous that the men have allowed you to reach the
mature age of twenty-two, unmarried
It is the fault of the hussy herself
It is not
from want of offers, for she has had a dozen, and among them some of
the nobility at court; for it is well known that John Tufton's niece
will have a dowry such as many of the nobles could not give, to their
daughters
This is too bad, Kate
What excuse have you
to make for yourself for remaining single, with all these advantages
of face and fortune
Simply that I didn't like any of them
The beaux of the
present day are contemptible. I would as soon think of marrying a wax
doll. When I do marry; that is, if ever I do, it shall be a man, and
not a mere tailor's dummy
You are pert, miss
Do what I will, Charlie, I cannot teach the hussy to order her
tongue
Katie's quite right, Uncle
And I must make it my
duty to find a man who will suit her taste; though, according to your
account of her, he will find it a hard task to keep such a Xanthippe
in order
He'd better not try
or it will be worse for
him
</text>
