<text>
queer, old-fashioned fellow
an old-fashioned fellow
But oh, Ralph
come back soon
to us, my dear boy, for we are getting old now, Ralph, and may not have
many years to live
There, lass
there, lass, take a good nap now, for we shan't ask you to
kiss the mud again for many a long day to come
Hallo! youngster
come below and I'll show you your berth.  You
and I are to be mess-mates, and I think we shall be good friends, for I
like the look o' you
Cape Horn
is the most horrible headland I ever doubled.
I've sailed round it twice already, and both times the ship was a'most
blow'd out o' the water
An' I've been round it once
an' that time the sails
were split, and the ropes frozen in the blocks, so that they wouldn't
work, and we wos all but lost
An' I've been round it five times
an' every time wos
wuss than another, the gales wos so tree-mendous
And I've been round it no times at all
an' _that_ time I wos blow'd inside out
It's all over with us now, lads
get the
boat ready to launch; we shall be on the rocks in less than half an
hour
Come boys
Come boys, we three shall
stick together.  You see it is impossible that the little boat can reach
the shore, crowded with men.  It will be sure to upset, so I mean rather
to trust myself to a large oar, I see through the telescope that the ship
will strike at the tail of the reef, where the waves break into the quiet
water inside; so, if we manage to cling to the oar till it is driven over
the breakers, we may perhaps gain the shore.  What say you; will you join
me
Ralph, my
dearest child, always remember in the hour of danger to look to your Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ.  He alone is both able and willing to save your
body and your soul
Speak to us, my dear Ralph
are you better
now
Better; why, what do you mean, Jack?  I'm
quite well
Then what are you shamming for, and frightening us in this way
Come, come, Ralph
lie down,
my boy; you're not right yet.  Wet your lips with this water, it's cool
and clear as crystal.  I got it from a spring close at hand.  There now,
don't say a word, hold your tongue
I'll tell you all about it, but you must not utter a syllable till you
have rested well
Oh! don't stop him from speaking, Jack
Let him speak, Jack; it's
a comfort to hear that he's alive, after lying there stiff and white and
sulky for a whole hour, just like an Egyptian mummy.  Never saw such a
fellow as you are, Ralph; always up to mischief.  You've almost knocked
out all my teeth and more than half choked me, and now you go shamming
dead!  It's very wicked of you, indeed it is
What do you mean by
saying I half choked you, Peterkin
What do I mean?  Is English not your mother tongue, or do you want me to
repeat it in French, by way of making it clearer?  Don't you remember
I remember nothing
after we were thrown
into the sea
Hush, Peterkin
you're exciting Ralph with your nonsense.
I'll explain it to you.  You recollect that after the ship struck, we
three sprang over the bow into the sea; well, I noticed that the oar
struck your head and gave you that cut on the brow, which nearly stunned
you, so that you grasped Peterkin round the neck without knowing
apparently what you were about.  In doing so you pushed the
telescope,-- which you clung to as if it had been your life,-- against
Peterkin's mouth
Pushed it against his mouth
say crammed it down
his throat.  Why, there's a distinct mark of the brass rim on the back of
my gullet at this moment
Well, well, be that as it may
you clung to him,
Ralph, till I feared you really would choke him; but I saw that he had a
good hold of the oar, so I exerted myself to the utmost to push you
towards the shore, which we luckily reached without much trouble, for the
water inside the reef is quite calm
But the captain and crew, what of them
Are they lost
No, they are not lost, I hope, but I fear there is not much chance of
their being saved.  The ship struck at the very tail of the island on
which we are cast.  When the boat was tossed into the sea it fortunately
did not upset, although it shipped a good deal of water, and all the men
managed to scramble into it; but before they could get the oars out the
gale carried them past the point and away to leeward of the island.  After
we landed I saw them endeavouring to pull towards us, but as they had
only one pair of oars out of the eight that belong to the boat, and as
the wind was blowing right in their teeth, they gradually lost ground.
Then I saw them put about and hoist some sort of sail,-- a blanket, I
fancy, for it was too small for the boat,-- and in half an hour they were
out of sight
Poor fellows
But the more I think about it, I've better hope of them
You see, Ralph, I've read a great deal
about these South Sea Islands, and I know that in many places they are
scattered about in thousands over the sea, so they're almost sure to fall
in with one of them before long
I'm sure I hope so
But what has become of
the wreck, Jack?  I saw you clambering up the rocks there while I was
watching Ralph.  Did you say she had gone to pieces
No, she has not gone to pieces, but she has gone to the bottom
As I said before, she struck on the tail of the island and stove
in her bow, but the next breaker swung her clear, and she floated away to
leeward.  The poor fellows in the boat made a hard struggle to reach her,
but long before they came near her she filled and went down.  It was
after she foundered that I saw them trying to pull to the island
Oh
if the ship had only stuck
on the rocks we might have done pretty well, for we could have obtained
provisions from her, and tools to enable us to build a shelter, but
now -- alas! alas! we are lost
Lost!  Ralph
Saved, you should have said.  Your cogitations seem to have
taken a wrong road, and led you to a wrong conclusion
Do you know what conclusion _I_ have come to
I have
made up my mind that it's capital,-- first rate,-- the best thing that ever
happened to us, and the most splendid prospect that ever lay before three
jolly young tars.  We've got an island all to ourselves.  We'll take
possession in the name of the king; we'll go and enter the service of its
black inhabitants.  Of course we'll rise, naturally, to the top of
affairs.  White men always do in savage countries.  You shall be king,
Jack; Ralph, prime minister, and I shall be
The court jester
No
I'll have no title at all.  I shall merely
accept a highly responsible situation under government, for you see,
Jack, I'm fond of having an enormous salary and nothing to do
But suppose there are no natives
Then we'll build a charming villa, and plant a lovely garden round it,
stuck all full of the most splendiferous tropical flowers, and we'll farm
the land, plant, sow, reap, eat, sleep, and be merry
But to be serious
we are really in
rather an uncomfortable position.  If this is a desert island, we shall
have to live very much like the wild beasts, for we have not a tool of
any kind, not even a knife
Yes, we have _that_
Well, that's better than nothing; but come
we are
wasting our time in _talking_ instead of _doing_.  You seem well enough
to walk now, Ralph, let us see what we have got in our pockets, and then
let us climb some hill and ascertain what sort of island we have been
cast upon, for, whether good or bad, it seems likely to be our home for
some time to come
it was in memory of the
girl he left behind him
The oar! we have forgotten the oar
What good will that do us
there's wood enough on the
island to make a thousand oars
Ay, lad
but there's a bit of hoop iron at the end of
it, and that may be of much use to us
Very true
let us go fetch it
Huzza
What an odd fellow he is, to be sure
come, let us hasten to see what it is
Here it is, boys, hurrah! come along.  Just what we want
First
rate; just the very ticket
the very ticket
ticket
Ah! that is capital indeed
How fortunate this is!
It will be of more value to us than a hundred knives, and the edge is
quite new and sharp
I'll answer for the toughness of the handle at any rate
my arms are nearly pulled out of the sockets.  But see here,
our luck is great.  There is iron on the blade
Now, lads
I propose that we should go to the tail of the island,
where the ship struck, which is only a quarter of a mile off, and see if
anything else has been thrown ashore.  I don't expect anything, but it is
well to see.  When we get back here it will be time to have our supper
and prepare our beds
Agreed
What shall we do, Jack
perhaps they may
be poisonous
No fear
I have observed that a few of them
are not unlike some of the berries that grow wild on our own native
hills.  Besides, I saw one or two strange birds eating them just a few
minutes ago, and what won't kill the birds won't kill us.  But look up
there, Peterkin
There are nuts for us in all stages
So there are
You had better keep them till we return
Let us finish our
work before eating
So be it, captain, go ahead
In fact I don't want to eat just now, but I would
give a good deal for a drink.  Oh that I could find a spring! but I don't
see the smallest sign of one hereabouts.  I say, Jack, how does it happen
that you seem to be up to everything?  You have told us the names of half-
a-dozen trees already, and yet you say that you were never in the South
Seas before
I'm not up to _everything_, Peterkin, as you'll find out ere long
but I have been a great reader of books of
travel and adventure all my life, and that has put me up to a good many
things that you are, perhaps, not acquainted with
Oh, Jack, that's all humbug.  If you begin to lay everything to the
credit of books, I'll quite lose my opinion of you
I've seen a lot o' fellows that were _always_
poring over books, and when they came to try to _do_ anything, they were
no better than baboons
You are quite right
and I have seen a lot of fellows
who never looked into books at all, who knew nothing about anything
except the things they had actually seen, and very little they knew even
about these.  Indeed, some were so ignorant that they did not know that
cocoa-nuts grew on cocoa-nut trees
Humph! maybe you're right
but I would not give
_tuppence_ for a man of books, if he had nothing else in him
Neither would I
but that's no reason why you should run
books down, or think less of me for having read them.  Suppose, now,
Peterkin, that you wanted to build a ship, and I were to give you a long
and particular account of the way to do it, would not that be very
useful
No doubt of it
And suppose I were to write the account in a letter instead of telling
you in words, would that be less useful
Well -- no, perhaps not
Well, suppose I were to print it, and send it to you in the form of a
book, would it not be as good and useful as ever
Oh, bother! Jack, you're a philosopher, and that's worse than anything
Very well, Peterkin, we shall see
You said you were thirsty just a minute ago;
now, jump up that tree and bring down a nut,-- not a ripe one, bring a
green, unripe one
Now, cut a hole in it with your penknife, and clap it to your mouth, old
fellow
Nectar! perfect nectar!  I say, Jack, you're a Briton -- the best fellow I
ever met in my life.  Only taste that
Now, Peterkin, you unbeliever, I never saw or tasted a cocoa
nut in my life before, except those sold in shops at home; but I once
read that the green nuts contain that stuff, and you see it is true
And pray
what sort of 'stuff' does the ripe nut
contain
A hollow kernel
with a liquid like milk in it; but it
does not satisfy thirst so well as hunger.  It is very wholesome food I
believe
Meat and drink on the same tree
washing in the sea,
lodging on the ground,-- and all for nothing!  My dear boys, we're set up
for life; it must be the ancient Paradise,-- hurrah
Now, there's a fix!-- what shall we do
There are flints enough, no doubt, on the beach
but they are
of no use at all without a steel.  However, we must try
Oh dear
I would not care a button for the cooking of our
victuals,-- perhaps they don't need it,-- but it's so dismal to eat one's
supper in the dark, and we have had such a capital day, that it's a pity
to finish off in this glum style.  Oh, I have it
the spy-glass,-- the big glass at the end is a burning-glass
You forget that we have no sun
Ah, boys, I've got it now
I recollect
seeing this done once at home.  Hand me the bit of whip-cord
Oh you monster
hurrah
slow
coach
Come along, Ralph, and I'll help you
Did you ever in your life, Ralph, see anything so lovely
Never
It appears to me like fairy realms.  I can scarcely
believe that we are not dreaming
Dreaming
do you know, Ralph, I'm half tempted to think
that we really are dreaming.  But if so, I am resolved to make the most
of it, and dream another dive; so here goes,-- down again, my boy
I declare, Ralph
that I actually tried to laugh under
water
So I saw
and I observed that you very nearly caught that
fish by the tail.  It would have done capitally for breakfast if you
had
Breakfast enough here
Hallo!  Peterkin, here you are, boy.  Split open
these fellows while Ralph and I put on our clothes.  They'll agree with
the cocoa nuts excellently, I have no doubt
Now, that _is_ capital.  There's
nothing I'm so fond of
Ah! that's lucky
I'll be able to keep you in good
order now, Master Peterkin.  You know you can't dive any better than a
cat.  So, sir, whenever you behave ill, you shall have no oysters for
breakfast
I'm very glad that our prospect of breakfast is so good
for
I'm very hungry
Here, then, stop your mouth with that, Ralph
Hallo
what's that
I can see nothing
I think it
Pooh! is that all
Why, I thought it was all the wild men and beasts in the
South Sea Islands galloping on in one grand charge to sweep us off the
face of the earth, instead of a mere stone tumbling down the mountain
side
Nevertheless
if that same stone had hit any of us, it
would have rendered the charge you speak of quite unnecessary, Peterkin
Is it celebrated
It is
That's odd, now
never heard of it before
Then it's not so celebrated as I thought it was
but listen, you ignorant boobie!
and hear of it now
So
we seem to have everything ready prepared to our
hands in this wonderful island,-- lemonade ready bottled in nuts, and loaf-
bread growing on the trees
Moreover
the
bread-fruit tree affords a capital gum, which serves the natives for
pitching their canoes; the bark of the young branches is made by them
into cloth; and of the wood, which is durable and of a good colour, they
build their houses.  So you see, lads, that we have no lack of material
here to make us comfortable, if we are only clever enough to use it
But are you sure that that's it
Quite sure
for I was particularly interested in the
account I once read of it, and I remember the description well.  I am
sorry, however, that I have forgotten the descriptions of many other
trees which I am sure we have seen to-day, if we could but recognise
them.  So you see, Peterkin, I'm not up to everything yet
Never mind, Jack
never mind,
Jack; you know a good deal for your age.  You're a clever boy, sir,-- a
promising young man; and if you only go on as you have begun, sir, you
will
Perhaps
some ship or other has touched here long ago
for wood, and only taken one tree
I can't understand it
I can only suppose that the savages have been here and
cut it for some purpose known only to themselves.  But, hallo! what have
we here
I'll tell you what, Jack, I'm not going to be
humbugged with catching such contemptible things any longer.  I want you
to swim out with me on your back, and let me fish in deep water
Dear me, Peterkin
I had no idea you were taking the
thing so much to heart, else I would have got you out of that difficulty
long ago.  Let me see
What say you to building a boat
Take far too long
can't be bothered waiting.  I want
to begin at once
I have it
We'll fell a large tree
and launch the trunk of it in the water, so that when you want to fish
you've nothing to do but to swim out to it
Would not a small raft do better
Much better; but we have no ropes to bind it together with.  Perhaps we
may find something hereafter that will do as well, but, in the meantime,
let us try the tree
Hurrah! now for it
let us off with its head
Now, then, Jack
be cautious; steer clear o' that sea-weed.
There; that's it; gently, now, gently.  I see a fellow at least a foot
long down there, coming to -- ha! that's it!  Oh! bother, he's off
Did he bite
Bite? ay!  He took it into his mouth, but the moment I began to haul he
opened his jaws and let it out again
Let him swallow it next time
There he's again
Look out!  Now then!  No!  Yes!  No!  Why, the brute _won't_ swallow
it
Try to haul him up by the mouth, then
Do it gently
Never mind, lad
we'll move on, and
offer it to some other fish
Got him this time,-- that's a fact
He's swallowed the bait right down to his tail, I declare.  Oh what a
thumper
Haul up your line, Peterkin; seize your paddle; quick,-- it's a shark
Look
out!-- there he comes
Throw the fish to him
we'll
make the shore in time yet if we can keep him off for a few minutes
Stop paddling
I see it coming up behind us.
Now, obey my orders quickly.  Our lives may depend on it Ralph.  Peterkin,
do your best to _balance the log_.  Don't look out for the shark.  Don't
glance behind you.  Do nothing but balance the log
Now then, strike out for shore
Here, Peterkin, catch
hold of my collar, and kick out with a will
two
great white sea-monsters
Besides
it won't do for us to live on cocoa-nuts and
oysters always.  No doubt they are very excellent in their way, but I
think a little animal food, now and then, would be agreeable as well as
good for us; and as there are many small birds among the trees, some of
which are probably very good to eat, I think it would be a capital plan
to make bows and arrows, with which we could easily knock them over
First rate
You will make the bows, Jack, and I'll
try my hand at the arrows.  The fact is, I'm quite tired of throwing
stones at the birds.  I began the very day we landed, I think, and have
persevered up to the present time, but I've never hit anything yet
You forget
you hit me one day on the shin
Ah, true
and a precious shindy you kicked up in
consequence.  But you were at least four yards away from the impudent
paroquet I aimed at; so you see what a horribly bad shot I am
But
Jack, you cannot make three bows and arrows before to-
morrow, and would it not be a pity to waste time, now that we have made
up our minds to go on this expedition?  Suppose that you make one bow and
arrow for yourself, and we can take our clubs
That's true, Ralph.  The day is pretty far advanced, and I doubt if I
can make even one bow before dark.  To be sure I might work by
fire-light, after the sun goes down
However
the captain knows you are
coming, so that's not of much consequence; but as you'll have to find the
ship yourself, you must remember her name and description.  D'ye hear,
boy
Now
Peterkin,
you're in a fix
Cast off
Hold on
Hold on! hold on
Where did
you come from, you scamp, and what do you want here
Please, sir,' said I, touching my cap, 'I'm you're new 'prentice come
aboard.'

"'New 'Prentice,' said he, stamping, 'I've got no new 'prentice.  My boys
are all aboard already.  This is a trick, you young blackguard.  You've
run away, you have;' and the captain stamped about the deck and swore
dreadfully; for, you see, the thought of having to stop the ship and
lower a boat and lose half an hour, all for the slake of sending a small
boy ashore, seemed to make him very angry.  Besides, it was blowin' fresh
outside the harbour, so that, to have let the steamer alongside to put me
into it was no easy job.  Just as we were passing the pier-head, where
several boats were rowing into harbour, the captain came up to me,--

"'You've run away, you blackguard,' he said, giving me a box on the ear.

"'No I haven't,' said I, angrily; for the box was by no means a light
one.

"Hark'ee, boy, can you swim?'

"'Yes,' said I.

"'Then do it,' and, seizing me by my trousers and the nape of my neck, he
tossed me over the side into the sea.  The fellows in the boats at the
end of the pier, backed their oars on seeing this; but observing that I
could swim, they allowed me to make the best of my way to the pier-head.
So, you see, Ralph, that I really did swim my first homeward voyage
But tell us about the
candle-nut tree
you were talking about it
Very true
but I fear I can remember little about it.  I
believe the nut is about the size of a walnut; and I think that the
leaves are white, but I am not sure
Eh! ha! hum
I saw a tree answering to that
description this very day
Did you
Is it far from this
No, not half a mile
Then lead me to it
Now, Peterkin, climb that cocoa-nut tree and cut me one of the long
branches
Now lads
I shall go and cut a young tree to
make my bow out of, and you had better each of you go and select good
strong sticks for clubs, and we'll set to work at them after dark
I told you so
Oh, Ralph, you're
incorrigible.  See, there's a club for you.  I was sure, when we left you
looking at that bit of stuff, that we would find you poring over it when
we came back, so I just cut a club for you as well as for myself
Thank you, Peterkin
It was kind of you to do that, instead
of scolding me for a lazy fellow, as I confess I deserve
Oh! as to that
I'll blow you up yet, if you wish
it -- only it would be of no use if I did, for you're a perfect mule
I intend to appropriate the bow for my own use
I used to be a pretty fair
shot once.  But what's that you're doing
I'm going to enlist into the Lancers
You see,
Jack, I find the club rather an unwieldy instrument for my delicately-
formed muscles, and I flatter myself I shall do more execution with a
spear
Well, if length constitutes power
you'll certainly be
invincible
That's a very good idea
Which -- this
Yes
Humph
you'd find it a pretty tough and matter-of-fact idea,
if you had it stuck through your gizzard, old boy
I mean the idea of making it is a good one
And,
now I think of it, I'll change my plan, too.  I don't think much of a
club, so I'll make me a sling out of this piece of cloth.  I used to be
very fond of slinging, ever since I read of David slaying Goliath the
Philistine, and I was once thought to be expert at it
I say,
Jack, I'm sorry to say I must apply to you for another strip of your
handkerchief, to tie on this rascally head with.  It's pretty well torn
at any rate, so you won't miss it
Hist, man
be tender; you should never be needlessly cruel if
you can help it.  Do try to shave past Lord Nelson's mouth without
tearing it, if possible!  Thanks.  There are plenty more handkerchiefs on
the cocoa-nut trees
What can it be
Do you know
I have heard that mysterious sound twice
before, but never so loud as to-night.  Indeed it was so faint that I
thought I must have merely fancied it, so, as I did not wish to alarm
you, I said nothing about it
Very strange
Do you believe in ghosts,
Ralph
No
I do not.  Nevertheless I must confess that strange,
unaccountable sounds, such as we have just heard, make me feel a little
uneasy
What say you to it, Jack
I neither believe in ghosts nor feel uneasy
I never saw
a ghost myself, and I never met with any one who had; and I have
generally found that strange and unaccountable things have almost always
been accounted for, and found to be quite simple, on close examination.  I
certainly can't imagine what _that_ sound is; but I'm quite sure I shall
find out before long,-- and if it's a ghost I'll
Eat it
Yes, I'll eat it!  Now, then, my bow and two arrows are finished; so if
you're ready we had better turn in
A feathered arrow without a barb
is a good weapon, but a
barbed arrow without feathers is utterly useless
for
a spear at close quarters is not worth a button
What's yon, think you
Mind your eye
there goes another
Where'll it spout this time, I wonder
What's to be done now
Make a fire, lad, and dry ourselves
And here is material ready to our hand
I say, Ralph, what's that in the water? is it a shark
It's like a fish of some sort
Hallo, Peterkin
fetch your spear; here's work for it
There, now
you were always telling me it
was too long
Very odd
That's a banian-tree
And what's a banian-tree
A very curious one, as you shall see presently
It is
called the _aoa_ here, if I recollect rightly, and has a wonderful
peculiarity about it.  What an enormous one it is, to be sure
_It_
why, there are dozens of banians here!  What
do you mean by talking bad grammar?  Is your philosophy deserting you,
Jack
There is but one tree here of this kind
as you will
perceive if you will examine it
Now, Ralph
put a stone in your sling,-- a
good big one,-- and let fly at that fat fellow with his back toward you.
I'll try to put an arrow into yon little pig
Don't you think we had better put them up first
it seems
cruel to kill them while asleep
If I wanted _sport_, Ralph, I would certainly set them up; but as we
only want _pork_, we'll let them lie.  Besides, we're not sure of killing
them; so, fire away
I've missed, after all
That's very provoking, now
Very
Well, we must make haste and rejoin Peterkin
It's getting
late
hurrah
I do believe
that Peterkin has met with the hogs
When Greek meets Greek
then comes the tug
of
Hurrah
Well done, my boy
you're the best shot amongst us
Look here Jack
Do you recognise that hole
and are you familiar with this arrow, eh
Well, I declare
Of course you do
but, pray, restrain your
declarations at this time, and let's have supper, for I'm uncommonly
hungry, I can tell you; and it's no joke to charge a whole herd of swine
with their great-grandmother bristling like a giant porcupine at the head
of them
and
the patch was somewhat in a square
form, which convinces me it must have been planted by man
Very likely
From all we have seen, I'm inclined to
think that some of the savages must have dwelt here long ago
Don't let us waste more time talking about it, boys.  Hold it up,
Peterkin.  There, lay the hind leg on this block of wood, so
Now the other,-- that's it
No
Now, what can it be
I tell you what
it is, if we are to go on being pulled up in a constant state of horror
and astonishment, as we have been for the last week, the sooner we're out
o' this island the better, notwithstanding the yams and lemonade, and
pork and plums
It comes from one of these islands
It must be the ghost of a jackass, then
for I never
heard anything so like
Soldiers they are,-- that's flat
Why, Peterkin, they are penguins
Penguins
Ay, penguins, Peterkin, penguins,-- nothing more or less than big sea-
birds, as you shall see one of these days, when we pay them a visit in
our boat, which I mean to set about building the moment we return to our
bower
So, then, our dreadful yelling ghosts and our murdering army of
soldiers
have dwindled down to penguins,-- big sea-
birds!  Very good.  Then I propose that we continue our journey as fast
as possible, lest our island should be converted into a dream before we
get completely round it
What raised the island to its
present height above the sea
A wild-cat
That's the most comical wild-cat I ever saw
It's a tame wild-cat, I think
Stop
I do believe the poor
beast is blind.  See, it strikes against the branches as it walks along.
It must be a very old one
Only think
of a superannuated
wild-cat
Poor thing
Poor pussy; chee, chee, chee; puss, puss, puss;
cheetie pussy
It's no more a wild cat than I am
It's quite tame.  Poor pussy, cheetie pussy
Hallo
this looks something like a clearing.  The axe
has been at work here.  Just look at these tree-stumps
I say, Jack
here is something that will be of use to us
What is it
An old pistol
That, indeed, might have been useful
if we
had any powder; but I suspect the bow and the sling will prove more
serviceable
True, I forgot that
but we may as well take it with
us, for the flint will serve to strike fire with when the sun does not
shine
Why, you precious humbug
how could
you expect it to be otherwise?  When fishes are accustomed to live in the
Pacific Ocean, how can you expect them to exist in a hole like that
Indeed, Peterkin
there seems to be truth in what you say.
Nevertheless, now I think of it, there must be some error in your
reasoning; for, if I put in but a few very small animals, they will bear
the same proportion to this pond that the millions of fish bear to the
ocean
I say, Jack
come here, like a good
fellow.  Ralph is actually talking philosophy.  Do come to our
assistance, for he's out o' sight beyond me already
What's the matter
Your best plan
will be to put very few animals at
first into your tank, and add more as you find it will bear them.  And
look here
you
must carry your philosophy a little farther, Ralph.  That water has
evaporated so much that it is too salt for anything to live in.  You will
require to add _fresh_ water now and then, in order to keep it at the
same degree of saltness as the sea
Very true, Jack, that never struck me before
And, now I think of it
it seems to me that the surest
way of arranging your tank so as to get it to keep pure and in good
condition, will be to imitate the ocean in it.  In fact make it a
miniature Pacific.  I don't see how you can hope to succeed unless you do
that
Most true
But I fear that
that will be very difficult
Not at all
Not at all.  Look here.  There is water
of a certain saltness in the sea; well, fill your tank with sea water,
and keep it at that saltness by marking the height at which the water
stands on the sides.  When it evaporates a little, pour in _fresh_ water
from the brook till it comes up to the mark, and then it will be right,
for the salt does not evaporate with the water.  Then, there's lots of
sea-weed in the sea;-- well, go and get one or two bits of sea-weed, and
put them into your tank.  Of course the weed must be alive, and growing
to little stones; or you can chip a bit off the rocks with the weed
sticking to it.  Then, if you like, you can throw a little sand and
gravel into your tank, and the thing's complete
Nay, not quite
not quite; you must first make three little men to dive
in it before it can be said to be perfect, and that would be rather
difficult, I fear, for two of them would require to be philosophers.  But
hallo! what's this?  I say, Ralph, look here.  There's one o' your crabs
up to something uncommon.  It's performing the most remarkable operation
for a crab I ever saw,-- taking off its coat, I do believe, before going
to bed
Well
I've _heard_ of a man
jumping out of his skin and sitting down in his skeleton in order to cool
himself, but I never expected to _see_ a crab do it
Come, Jack
let's be jolly to-day, and do something
vigorous.  I'm quite tired of hammering and hammering, hewing and
screwing, cutting and butting, at that little boat of ours, that seems as
hard to build as Noah's ark; let us go on an excursion to the mountain
top, or have a hunt after the wild ducks, or make a dash at the pigs.  I'm
quite flat -- flat as bad ginger-beer -- flat as a pancake; in fact, I want
something to rouse me, to toss me up, as it were.  Eh! what do you say to
it
Well
if that's what you want, I would recommend
you to make an excursion to the water-spouts; the last one we had to do
with tossed you up a considerable height, perhaps the next will send you
higher, who knows, if you're at all reasonable or moderate in your
expectations
Jack, my dear boy
you are really becoming too
fond of jesting.  It's a thing I don't at all approve of, and if you
don't give it up, I fear that, for our mutual good, we shall have to
part
Well, then, Peterkin
what would you
have
Have
I would _have_ nothing.  I didn't say I wanted to
_have_; I said that I wanted to _do_
By the by
I am reminded by
this that we have not yet discovered the nature of yon curious appearance
that we saw near the water-spouts, on our journey round the island.
Perhaps it would be well to go for that purpose
Humph
I know the nature of it well enough
What was it
It was of a _mysterious_ nature to be sure
Well then, let us away to the water-spouts
and bring your spear, Peterkin.  It may be
useful
Most remarkable
Exceedingly curious
Beats everything
Now, Jack
you made such a poor figure in your last attempt
to stick that object, that I would advise you to let me try it.  If it
has got a heart at all, I'll engage to send my spear right through the
core of it; if it hasn't got a heart, I'll send it through the spot where
its heart ought to be
Fire away, then, my boy
Now
that brute is a heartless monster; I'll
have nothing more to do with it
I'm pretty sure now
that it is merely a phosphoric light;
but I must say I'm puzzled at its staying always in that exact spot
But
there is nothing to hinder us
from diving down to it, now that we are sure it is not a shark
True
I'll go down, Ralph,
as I'm better at diving than you are.  Now then, Peterkin, out o' the
road
Oh, Peterkin
something has happened.  It is more than three minutes now
Oh, Jack, Jack! he is gone!  It must have been a shark, and he is gone
for ever
Ralph! Ralph! perhaps he has only fainted.  Dive for
him, Ralph
Oh, Jack, Jack
where were you?  What
kept you so long
Now, lads
yon green object is not a shark; it is a stream of light issuing from a
cave in the rocks.  Just after I made my dive, I observed that this light
came from the side of the rock above which we are now sitting; so I
struck out for it, and saw an opening into some place or other that
appeared to be luminous within.  For one instant I paused to think
whether I ought to venture.  Then I made up my mind, and dashed into it.
For you see, Peterkin, although I take some time to tell this, it
happened in the space of a few seconds, so that I knew I had wind enough
in me to serve to bring me out o' the hole and up to the surface again.
Well, I was just on the point of turning,-- for I began to feel a little
uncomfortable in such a place,-- when it seemed to me as if there was a
faint light right above me.  I darted upwards, and found my head out of
water.  This relieved me greatly, for I now felt that I could take in air
enough to enable me to return the way I came.  Then it all at once
occurred to me that I might not be able to find the way out again; but,
on glancing downwards, my mind was put quite at rest by seeing the green
light below me streaming into the cave, just like the light that we had
seen streaming out of it, only what I now saw was much brighter.

"At first I could scarcely see anything as I gazed around me, it was so
dark; but gradually my eyes became accustomed to it, and I found that I
was in a huge cave, part of the walls of which I observed on each side of
me.  The ceiling just above me was also visible, and I fancied that I
could perceive beautiful glittering objects there, but the farther end of
the cave was shrouded in darkness.  While I was looking around me in
great wonder, it came into my head that you two would think I was
drowned; so I plunged down through the passage again in a great hurry,
rose to the surface, and -- here I am
What's the matter, Peterkin
The matter
It's all very well for you two to be talking
away like mermaids about the wonders of this cave, but you know I must be
content to hear about it, while you are enjoying yourselves down there
like mad dolphins.  It's really too bad
I'm very sorry for you, Peterkin, indeed I am
but we
cannot help you.  If you would only learn to dive
Learn to fly, you might as well say
If you would only consent to keep still
we would take you
down with us in ten seconds
Hum
suppose a salamander was to propose to you
'only to keep still,' and he would carry you through a blazing fire in a
few seconds, what would you say
Now don't weary for us, Peterkin, should we be gone some time
we'll be sure to return in half-an-hour at the very latest,
however interesting the cave should be, that we may relieve your mind
Farewell
Farewell! and while you are gone I shall repose my weary limbs
under the shelter of this bush, and meditate on the changefulness of all
things earthly, with special reference to the forsaken condition of a
poor ship-wrecked sailor boy
Now, Ralph, are you ready
Quite ready
Come along, then
That's the ticket
Hist
these are your friends, Peterkin.  They must have
come over expressly to pay you a friendly visit, for it is the first time
we have seen them on this side the island
Come along
I say, Peterkin
Well, what is't
Stay a bit, man.  These grunters are just up there on the hill side.  If
you go and stand with Ralph in the lee of yon cliff, I'll cut round
behind and drive them through the gorge, so that you'll have a better
chance of picking out a good one.  Now, mind you pitch into a fat young
pig, Peterkin
Won't I, just
I feel quite a tender affection for young pigs in my
heart.  Perhaps it would be more correct to say in my s
There they come
bash
Capital, Ralph! that's your sort
Now, Peterkin
there's a nice little fat one; just spear it
What is it
Oh, Peterkin
what have you done
Done?  I've killed their great-great-grandmother, that's all
Hallo! what's this
Why, Peterkin, you must
be fond of a tough chop.  If you mean to eat this old hog, she'll try
your jaws, I warrant.  What possessed you to stick _her_, Peterkin
Why, the fact is I want a pair of shoes
What have your shoes to do with the old hog?' said I, smiling.

"My present shoes have certainly nothing to do with her
nevertheless she will have a good deal to do with my future
shoes.  The fact is, when I saw you floor that pig so neatly, Ralph, it
struck me that there was little use in killing another.  Then I
remembered all at once that I had long wanted some leather or tough
substance to make shoes of, and this old grandmother seemed so tough that
I just made up my mind to stick her, and you see I've done it
That you certainly have, Peterkin
a conglomerate
where there's a will
there's a way
There, lads, the boat's finished at last! so we've nothing to do now but
shape two pair of oars, and then we may put to sea as soon as we like
My dear fellow
you're a perfect trump.  But why did
you not tell us it was so nearly ready? won't we have a jolly sail to-
morrow? eh
Don't talk so much, Peterkin
and, pray, hand me a bit of
that pig
Certainly, my dear
what part will
you have? a leg, or a wing, or a piece of the breast; which
A hind leg, if you please
and, pray, be so good as to
include the tail
With all my heart
I'm only too glad, my
dear boy, to see that your appetite is so wholesale; and there's no
chance whatever of its dwindling down into re-tail again, at least in so
far as this pig is concerned.  Ralph, lad, why don't you laugh?-- eh
Laugh
what at, Peterkin? why should I laugh
Well, but
I was talking of a sail to-morrow.
Can't we have one, Jack
No
we can't have a sail, but I hope we shall have a
row, as I intend to work hard at the oars this afternoon, and, if we
can't get them finished by sunset we'll light our candle-nuts, and turn
them out of hands before we turn into bed
Very good
I'll help you, if I can
Afterwards
we will make a sail out of the cocoa-nut
cloth, and rig up a mast, and then we shall be able to sail to some of
the other islands, and visit our old friends the penguins
Cat
I love
you
Do you hear me
I love you -- I do.  Don't you
love me
Mew
Ah! that's right.  You're a jolly old rascal.  Why did you not speak at
once? eh
Yes
I love you.  D'you think I'd
say so if I didn't, you black villain?  I love you because I've got to
take care of you, and to look after you, and to think about you, and to
see that you don't die
Mew, me-a-w
Very good
quite true, I have no doubt; but you've
no right to interrupt me, sir.  Hold your tongue till I have done
speaking.  Moreover, cat, I love you because you came to me the first
time you ever saw me, and didn't seem to be afraid, and appeared to be
fond of me, though you didn't know that I wasn't going to kill you.  Now,
that was brave, that was bold, and very jolly, old boy, and I love you
for it -- I do
Well, cat, what are you thinking about now? won't speak? eh?  Now, tell
me; don't you think it's a monstrous shame that these two scoundrels,
Jack and Ralph, should keep us waiting for our supper so long
Just so, old boy, you're a clever fellow,-- I really do believe the brute
understands me
Bad luck to you, Jack! you've nearly made the heart jump out of my body,
you have
Perhaps I have
but,
as I don't intend to keep you or the cat any longer from your supper, I
hope that you'll both forgive me
I vote that we row to the reef
And I vote that we visit the islands within the lagoon
And I vote we do both
so pull away, boys
Now
as our boat answers so well, we will get a mast and
sail made immediately
So we will
we'll light our candle and set about it this very
night.  Hurrah, my boys, pull away
Hallo
That won't do.  Our keel will be
worn off in no time at this rate
So it will
It seems to me, Jack
that it is impossible to prevent the keel being worn off thus
Impossible
my dear Ralph, you are mistaken, there is
nothing so easy
How
Why, by not using the boat at all
Hold your impudent tongue, Peterkin
come along with me and I'll give you work to do.  In the first
place, you will go and collect cocoa-nut fibre, and set to work to make
sewing twine with it
Please, captain
I've got lots of it made
already,-- more than enough, as a little friend of mine used to be in the
habit of saying every day after dinner
Very well
then you'll help Ralph to collect cocoa-nut
cloth, and cut it into shape, after which we'll make a sail of it.  I'll
see to getting the mast and the gearing; so let's to work
marrow quake to think upon
You see
it might be all very well for a stupid fellow
like me to remain here and leave the penguins alone, but it would be
quite inconsistent with your characters as philosophers to remain any
longer in ignorance of the habits and customs of these birds; so the
sooner we go the better
Very true
there is nothing I desire so much as to have a
closer inspection of them
And I think
that you had better remain at home, Peterkin,
to take care of the cat; for I'm sure the hogs will be at it in your
absence, out of revenge for your killing their great-grandmother so
recklessly
Stay at home
my dear fellow, you would certainly lose
your way, or get upset, if I were not there to take care of you
Ah, true
that did not occur to me; no doubt you
must go.  Our boat does require a good deal of ballast; and all that you
say, Peterkin, carries so much weight with it, that we won't need stones
if you go
It may have been washed up into the woods
Jack, my friend, you were once so exceedingly sagacious and wise as to
make me acquainted with the fact that cocoa nuts grow upon trees; will
you now be so good as to inform me what sort of fruit that is growing on
the top of yonder bush? for I confess to being ignorant, or, at least,
doubtful on the point
You must know
I walked about all the forenoon, till I was as
tired as an old donkey, without seeing a single grunter, not so much as a
track of one; but, as I was determined not to return empty-handed, I
resolved to go without my dinner and
What
did you _really_ resolve to do that
Now, Jack, hold your tongue
I say that I resolved
to forego my dinner and to push to the head of the small valley, where I
felt pretty sure of discovering the hogs.  I soon found that I was on the
right scent, for I had scarcely walked half a mile in the direction of
the small plum tree we found there the other day, when a squeak fell on
my ear.  'Ho, ho,' said I, 'there you go, my boys;' and I hurried up the
glen.  I soon started them, and singling out a fat pig, ran tilt at him.
In a few seconds I was up with him, and stuck my spear right through his
dumpy body.  Just as I did so, I saw that we were on the edge of a
precipice, whether high or low I knew not, but I had been running at such
a pace that I could not stop, so the pig and I gave a howl in concert and
went plunging over together.  I remembered nothing more after that, till
I came to my senses and found you bathing my temples, and Ralph wringing
his hands over me
I wish we had a breeze
So do I
pulling is hard work.  Oh dear, if we could only catch a hundred or two
of these gulls, tie them to the boat with long strings, and make them fly
as we want them, how capital it would be
Or bore a hole through a shark's tail, and reeve a rope through it, eh
But, I say, it seems that my wish is going to be
granted, for here comes a breeze.  Ship your oar, Peterkin.  Up with the
mast, Ralph; I'll see to the sail.  Mind your helm; look out for
squalls
There go the soldiers
how
spruce their white trousers look, this morning!  I wonder if they will
receive us kindly.  D'you think they are hospitable, Jack
Don't talk, Peterkin, but pull away, and you shall see shortly
Bolt-up-right
Pull in a bit
and let's see what these are.  They
must be fond of noisy company, to consort with such creatures
That beats everything
I've heard of a
thing being neither fish, flesh, nor fowl, but I never did expect to live
to see a brute that was all three together,-- at once -- in one!  But look
there
look there! there's no end to it.  What _has_ that brute got under its
tail
She's going to choke
Now, just look yonder
if that
isn't the most abominable piece of maternal deception I ever saw.  That
rascally old lady penguin has just pitched her young one into the sea,
and there's another about to follow her example
Don't be afraid, darling!  I won't hurt you, my pet
It's
my opinion that these birds are all stark, staring mad, and that this is
an enchanted island.  I therefore propose that we should either put about
ship and fly in terror from the spot, or land valorously on the island,
and sell our lives as dearly as we can
I vote for landing, so pull in, lads
We shall at least have the shelter of the bushes
and the penguins will keep us company
Stand by, both of you
be ready
to dowse the sail.  I very much fear we won't make the island after all
Show a little bit more sail
Ay, ay
Out your oars now, lads; that's well done.  Give way
Why
it seems to me
that we have got into a mermaid's cave, for there is nothing but water
all round us; and as for earth or sky, they are things of the past
Now, boys
bestir yourselves, and let's make ourselves
comfortable.  Toss out our provisions, Peterkin; and here, Ralph, lend a
hand to haul up the boat.  Look sharp
Ay, ay, captain
What are yon, think you
I can't imagine
I've noticed them for some time, and
fancied they were black sea-gulls, but the more I look at them the more I
feel convinced they are much larger than gulls
They seem to be coming towards us
Hallo! what's wrong
Look there
Whales
No! eh! can
they be boats, Jack
I think you are about right, Peterkin;-- but they seem to me to move
strangely for boats
They are canoes, Ralph! whether war-canoes
or not I cannot tell, but this I know, that all the natives of the South
Sea Islands are fierce cannibals, and they have little respect for
strangers.  We must hide if they land here, which I earnestly hope they
will not do
How unfortunate
that
we have forgotten our arms
It matters not
here are clubs enough and to spare
Peterkin
have you got your knife
Yes
That will do.  Listen to me, and do my bidding quick.  Here is the small
knife, Ralph.  Fly both of you through the bush, cut the cords that bind
the prisoners and set them free.  There! quick, ere it be too late
Here, get out o' the way
I'll soon bring her
round
There, that's all right
Now Ralph and Peterkin, make the women and these fellows follow
me to the bower.  Well entertain them as hospitably as we can
Now, then
let's see
after breakfast.  Hallo!  Peterkin, lazy fellow, how long do you mean to
lie there
Well
if it isn't to-morrow morning, and me thinking it
was to-day all this time.  Hallo!  Venus, where did you come from? you
seem tolerably at home, any how.  Bah! might as well speak to the cat as
to you -- better, in fact, for it understands me, and you don't
Jack
Jack
Tararo
Chuck
I must look even more indignantly at you than I feel,
Peterkin, you rascal, for these fellows don't like to be laughed at
Avatea
What can that mean, I wonder
Perhaps
the chief means she is an angel come down to
stay here for a while.  If so, she's an uncommonly black one
Avatea
Come, come, you blackguard
pitch that into the hole.  Do you hear
Stop
you blockhead, I don't want you to kill the man
A sail! a sail!  Ralph, look!  Jack, away on the horizon there, just
over the entrance to the lagoon
So it is, and a schooner, too
What is to be done
If they take
us off the island, it will either be to throw us overboard for sport, or
to make pirates of us
There is but one hope
perhaps, after
all, we may not have to resort to it.  If these villains are anxious to
take us, they will soon overrun the whole island.  But come, follow me
You see what we may expect
The man who will
wantonly kill a poor brute for sport will think little of murdering a
fellow-creature.  Now, boys, we have but one chance left,-- the Diamond
Cave
The Diamond Cave
then my chance is a poor one, for I
could not dive into it if all the pirates on the Pacific were at my
heels
Nay, but
we will take you down, Peterkin, if you will only
trust us
Now, Peterkin
you must make up your mind
to do it, or we must make up our minds to die in your company
Oh, Jack, my dear friend
leave me; I
don't believe they'll think it worth while to kill me.  Go, you and
Ralph, and dive into the cave
That will not I
So now, Ralph, we must prepare to meet these
fellows.  Their motto is, 'No quarter.'  If we can manage to floor those
coming in this direction, we may escape into the woods for a while
There are five of them
we have no chance
Come, then
let us dive; I will go
Now, keep quite still, no struggling
or we are lost
Perhaps
they may take it into their heads to stop here
altogether, and so we shall be buried alive in this place
Don't you think, Peterkin, that it's the nearest thing to being drowned
alive that you ever felt
But I've no fear of
that.  These villains never stay long on shore.  The sea is their home,
so you may depend upon it that they won't stay more than a day or two at
the furthest
No, Jack
do you rest here.  You've had enough to do during
the last few days.  Rest yourself now, and take care of Peterkin, while I
go out to see what the pirates are about.  I'll be very careful not to
expose myself, and I'll bring you word again in a short time
Very well, Ralph
please yourself, but don't be long;
and if you'll take my advice you'll go in your clothes, for I would like
to have some fresh cocoa nuts, and climbing trees without clothes is
uncomfortable, to say the least of it
The pirates will be sure to keep a sharp lookout
so,
pray, be careful
No fear
good-bye
Good-bye
Yes, there she goes; the villains have been baulked of their prey this
time at least
Not so sure of that
So, youngster
the villains have been baulked of their prey,
have they?  We shall see, we shall see.  Now, you whelp, look yonder
Now, go, make a fire on that point; and
hark'ee, youngster, if you try to run away, I'll send a quick and sure
messenger after you
But where are the other cubs
I'll swear to it there were three, at least, if not
more
You hear what he says, whelp; where are the other dogs
If you mean my companions
I won't tell you
Now, youngster, listen to me.  I've no
time to waste here.  If you don't tell me all you know, I'll blow your
brains out!  Where are your comrades
Villain
to blow my
brains out would make short work of me, and be soon over.  Death by
drowning is as sure, and the agony prolonged, yet, I tell you to your
face, if you were to toss me over yonder cliff into the sea, I would not
tell you where my companions are, and I dare you to try me
Say you so
Here, lads, take him by the legs and heave
him in,-- quick
Hold on, lads, hold on.  We'll give him a taste of the thumb-
screws before throwing him to the sharks.  Away with him into the boat.
Look alive! the breeze is freshening
So you're blubbering, are you, you obstinate whelp
I don't allow any such weakness aboard o' this
ship.  So clap a stopper on your eyes or I'll give you something to cry
for
I thought you were made of better stuff
I'd rather have a mad bull-dog aboard than a water-eyed puppy.
But I'll cure you, lad, or introduce you to the sharks before long.  Now
go below, and stay there till I call you
Boy! whelp! what mean you by
that
If you lower your hand
I'll tell you.  Until you do so I'm dumb
Now
I threw that keg into the sea because the wind and
waves will carry it to my friends on the Coral Island, who happen to have
a pistol, but no powder.  I hope that it will reach them soon, and my
only regret is that the keg was not a bigger one.  Moreover, pirate, you
said just now that you thought I was made of better stuff!  I don't know
what stuff I am made of,-- I never thought much about that subject; but
I'm quite certain of this, that I am made of such stuff as the like of
you shall never tame, though you should do your worst
Well done, lad! you're a brick, and I have no doubt will
turn out a rare cove.  Bloody Bill, there, was just such a fellow as you
are, and he's now the biggest cut-throat of us all
Take a can of beer, lad
and wet your whistle after
that speech o' your'n to the captain.  If any one o' us had made it,
youngster, he would have had no whistle to wet by this time
Stop your clapper, Jack
give the boy a junck o'
meat.  Don't you see he's a'most goin' to kick the bucket
And no wonder
after the tumble
you gave him into the boat.  I guess it would have broke _your_ neck if
you had got it
Hallo there! one o' you, tumble up and light the cabin lamp, and send
that boy aft to the captain -- sharp
Now then, do you hear, youngster? the captain wants you.  Look alive
Boy
what is your name
Ralph Rover
Where did you come from, and how came you to be on that island?  How
many companions had you on it?  Answer me, now, and mind you tell no
lies
I never tell lies
Boy, I believe
you
And what
makes you think that this schooner is
a pirate
The black flag
showed me what you are; and if any further
proof were wanting I have had it in the brutal treatment I have received
at your hands
Boy,
you are too bold.  I admit that we treated you roughly, but that was
because you made us lose time and gave us a good deal of trouble.  As to
the black flag, that is merely a joke that my fellows play off upon
people sometimes in order to frighten them.  It is their humour, and does
no harm.  I am no pirate, boy, but a lawful trader,-- a rough one, I grant
you, but one can't help that in these seas, where there are so many
pirates on the water and such murderous blackguards on the land.  I carry
on a trade in sandal-wood with the Feejee Islands; and if you choose,
Ralph, to behave yourself and be a good boy, I'll take you along with me
and give you a good share of the profits.  You see I'm in want of an
honest boy like you, to look after the cabin and keep the log, and
superintend the traffic on shore sometimes.  What say you, Ralph, would
you like to become a sandal-wood trader
If it be as you state, then why did you take me from my
island, and why do you not now take me back
I took you off in anger, boy, and I'm
sorry for it.  I would even now take you back, but we are too far away
from it.  See, there it is
and we are now here,-- fifty miles at least.  It would not be fair to my
men to put about now, for they have all an interest in the trade
Bill, why is it that you are so gloomy?  Why do you never speak to any
one
Why, I s'pose it's because I haint
got nothin' to say
That's strange
you look like a man that could
think, and such men can usually speak
So they can, youngster
and I could
speak too if I had a mind to, but what's the use o' speakin' here!  The
men only open their mouths to curse and swear, an' they seem to find it
entertaining; but I don't, so I hold my tongue
Well, Bill, that's true, and I would rather not hear you speak at all
than hear you speak like the other men; but _I_ don't swear, Bill, so you
might talk to me sometimes, I think.  Besides, I'm weary of spending day
after day in this way, without a single soul to say a pleasant word to.
I've been used to friendly conversation, Bill, and I really would take it
kind if you would talk with me a little now and then
An' where have you been used to friendly conversation
not on that Coral Island, I take it
Yes, indeed
I have spent many of the happiest
months in my life on that Coral Island
Boy, boy
this is
no place for you
That's true
I'm of little use on board, and I don't like my
comrades; but I can't help it, and at anyrate I hope to be free again
soon
Free
Yes, free
the captain said he would put me ashore after
this trip was over
_This trip_!  Hark'ee, boy
what said
the captain to you the day you came aboard
He said that he was a trader in sandal-wood and no pirate, and told me
that if I would join him for this trip he would give me a good share of
the profits or put me on shore in some civilized island if I chose
Ay, he said truth when he
told you he was a sandal-wood trader, but he lied when
Sail ho
Where, away
On the starboard quarter, hull down, sir
Take in top-sails
Take in top-sails
Ay, ay, sir-r-r
A
stern chase is a long one
Lower the boat
jump into the stern sheets, Ralph, I may want
you
Where's the commander of this ship
I is capin
You
Where do you come from, and where
are you bound?  What cargo have you aboard
We is come
from Aitutaki; we
was go for Rarotonga.  We is native miss'nary ship; our name is de _Olive
Branch_; an' our cargo is two tons cocoa-nuts, seventy pigs, twenty cats,
and de Gosp'l
I am very glad to have fallen in with you
and I wish you
much success in your missionary labours.  Pray take me to your cabin, as
I wish to converse with you privately
Me most glad to find you trader; we t'ought you be
pirate.  You very like one 'bout the masts
I wonder
why our captain looked so sweet on yon swallow-
tailed super-cargo o' pigs and Gospels.  If it had been an ordinary
trader, now, he would have taken as many o' the pigs as he required and
sent the ship with all on board to the bottom
Why, Dick, you must be new to these seas if you don't know that
The captain cares as much for the gospel as you do (an' that's
precious little), but he knows, and everybody knows, that the only place
among the southern islands where a ship can put in and get what she wants
in comfort, is where the gospel has been sent to.  There are hundreds o'
islands, at this blessed moment, where you might as well jump straight
into a shark's maw as land without a band o' thirty comrades armed to the
teeth to back you
Ay
Dick's new to the
work.  But if the captain takes us for a cargo o' sandal-wood to the
Feejees he'll get a taste o' these black gentry in their native
condition.  For my part I don't know, an' I don't care, what the gospel
does to them; but I know that when any o' the islands chance to get it,
trade goes all smooth an' easy; but where they ha'nt got it, Beelzebub
himself could hardly desire better company
Well, you ought to be a good judge
for
you've never kept any company but the worst all your life
Ralph Rover
Captain wants you,
aft
Tell me, Bill, is this schooner really a trader in sandal-wood
Yes, Ralph, she is; but she's just as really a pirate.  The black flag
you saw flying at the peak was no deception
Then how can you say she's a trader
Why, as to that, she trades when she can't take by force, but she takes
by force, when she can, in preference.  Ralph
if you had seen the bloody deeds that I have witnessed done on
these decks you would not need to ask if we were pirates.  But you'll
find it out soon enough.  As for the missionaries, the captain favours
them because they are useful to him.  The South-Sea islanders are such
incarnate fiends that they are the better of being tamed, and the
missionaries are the only men who can do it
Don't fire
Pull off to the point ahead of you
Don't distress yourselves, lads
Obey orders.  The captain's not the man to take an
insult tamely.  If Long Tom does not speak presently I'll give myself to
the sharks
Pull ashore, lads, and fill your water casks
And this
this is the man who favours the missionaries
because they are useful to him and can tame the savages better than any
one else can do it
No, no, Ralph
you must not think of running away
here.  Among some of the groups of islands you might do so with safety,
but if you tried it here you would find that you had jumped out of the
fryin' pan into the fire
How so, Bill
would the natives not receive me
That they would, lad; but they would eat you too
Eat me
I thought the South Sea islanders never
ate anybody except their enemies
Humph
I s'pose 'twas yer tender-hearted friends in
England that put that notion into your head.  There's a set o'
soft-hearted folk at home that I knows on, who don't like to have their
feelin's ruffled, and when you tell them anything they don't like -- that
shocks them, as they call it -- no matter how true it be, they stop their
ears and cry out, 'Oh, that is _too_ horrible!  We can't believe that!'
An' they say truth.  They can't believe it 'cause they won't believe it.
Now, I believe there's thousands o' the people in England who are sich
born drivellin' _won't-believers_ that they think the black fellows
hereaway, at the worst, eat an enemy only now an' then, out o' spite;
whereas, I know for certain, and many captains of the British and
American navies know as well as me, that the Feejee islanders eat not
only their enemies but one another; and they do it not for spite, but for
pleasure.  It's a _fact_ that they prefer human flesh to any other.  But
they don't like white men's flesh so well as black.  They say it makes
them sick
Why, Bill
you told me just now that they would eat _me_ if
they caught me
So I did; and so I think they would.  I've only heard some o' them say
they don't like white men _so well_ as black; but if they was hungry they
wouldn't be particular.  Anyhow, I'm sure they would kill you.  You see,
Ralph, I've been a good while in them parts, and I've visited the
different groups of islands oftentimes as a trader.  And thorough goin'
blackguards some o' them traders are.  No better than pirates, I can tell
you.  One captain that I sailed with was not a chip better than the one
we're with now.  He was tradin' with a friendly chief one day, aboard his
vessel.  The chief had swam off to us with the things for trade tied a-
top of his head, for them chaps are like otters in the water.  Well, the
chief was hard on the captain, and would not part with some o' his
things.  When their bargainin' was over they shook hands, and the chief
jumped over board to swim ashore; but before he got forty yards from the
ship the captain seized a musket and shot him dead.  He then hove up
anchor and put to sea, and as we sailed along shore, he dropped six black-
fellows with his rifle, remarkin' that 'that would spoil the trade for
the next comers.'  But, as I was sayin', I'm up to the ways o' these
fellows.  One o' the laws o' the country is, that every shipwrecked
person who happens to be cast ashore, be he dead or alive, is doomed to
be roasted and eaten.  There was a small tradin' schooner wrecked off one
of these islands when we were lyin' there in harbour during a storm.  The
crew was lost, all but three men, who swam ashore.  The moment they
landed they were seized by the natives and carried up into the woods.  We
knew pretty well what their fate would be, but we could not help them,
for our crew was small, and if we had gone ashore they would likely have
killed us all.  We never saw the three men again; but we heard frightful
yelling, and dancing, and merry-making that night; and one of the
natives, who came aboard to trade with us next day, told us that the
_long pigs_, as he called the men, had been roasted and eaten, and their
bones were to be converted into sail needles.  He also said that white
men were bad to eat, and that most o' the people on shore were sick
There are two or three ways that we might escape, Ralph,
but none o' them's easy.  If the captain would only sail for some o' the
islands near Tahiti, we might run away there well enough, because the
natives are all Christians; an' we find that wherever the savages take up
with Christianity they always give over their bloody ways, and are safe
to be trusted.  I never cared for Christianity myself
and I don't well know what it means; but a man
with half an eye can see what it does for these black critters.  However,
the captain always keeps a sharp look out after us when we get to these
islands, for he half suspects that one or two o' us are tired of his
company.  Then, we might manage to cut the boat adrift some fine night
when it's our watch on deck, and clear off before they discovered that we
were gone.  But we would run the risk o' bein' caught by the blacks.  I
wouldn't like to try that plan.  But you and I will think over it, Ralph,
and see what's to be done.  In the meantime it's our watch below, so I'll
go and turn in
It's only a volcano
I knew there was one hereabouts, but
thought it was extinct.  Up there and furl top-gallant-sails; we'll
likely have a breeze, and it's well to be ready
Ha
I know that island well.  They call it Emo
Have you been here before, then
Ay, that I have, often, and so has this schooner.  'Tis a famous island
for sandal-wood.  We have taken many cargoes off it already, and have
paid for them too; for the savages are so numerous that we dared not try
to take it by force.  But our captain has tried to cheat them so often,
that they're beginnin' not to like us overmuch now.  Besides, the men
behaved ill the last time we were here; and I wonder the captain is not
afraid to venture.  But he's afraid o' nothing earthly, I believe
Give way, lads
It is beneath his dignity, I believe, to feed himself
but I daresay he's not particular, except on great occasions.  They've a
strange custom among them, Ralph, which is called _tabu_, and they carry
it to great lengths.  If a man chooses a particular tree for his god, the
fruit o' that tree is tabued to him; and if he eats it, he is sure to be
killed by his people, and eaten, of course, for killing means eating
hereaway.  Then, you see that great mop o' hair on the chief's head?
Well, he has a lot o' barbers to keep it in order; and it's a law that
whoever touches the head of a living chief or the body of a dead one, his
hands are tabued; so, in that way, the barbers' hands are always tabued,
and they daren't use them for their lives, but have to be fed like big
babies, as they are, sure enough
That's odd, Bill.  But look there
I've
seen a few of these light-skinned fellows among the Fejeeans.  They seem
to me to be of quite a different race
So they are
These fellows come from the Tongan
Islands, which lie a long way to the eastward.  They come here to build
their big war-canoes; and as these take two, and sometimes four years, to
build, there's always some o' the brown-skins among the black sarpents o'
these islands
By the way, Bill
your mentioning serpents, reminds me that I
have not seen a reptile of any kind since I came to this part of the
world
No more there are any
if ye except the niggers themselves,
there's none on the islands, but a lizard or two and some sich harmless
things.  But I never seed any myself.  If there's none on the land,
however, there's more than enough in the water, and that minds me of a
wonderful brute they have here.  But, come, I'll show it to you
There
what do you think of
that for a god, Ralph?  This is one o' their gods, and it has been fed
with dozens o' livin' babies already.  How many more it'll get afore it
dies is hard to say
Babies
Ay, babies
Your soft-hearted folk at home would say,
'Oh, horrible! impossible!' to that, and then go away as comfortable and
unconcerned as if their sayin' 'horrible! impossible!' had made it a lie.
But I tell you, Ralph, it's a _fact_.  I've seed it with my own eyes the
last time I was here, an' mayhap if you stop a while at this accursed
place, and keep a sharp look out, you'll see it too.  They don't feed it
regularly with livin' babies, but they give it one now and then as a
treat.  Bah! you brute!' cried Bill, in disgust, giving the reptile a
kick on the snout with his heavy boot, that sent it sweltering back in
agony into its loathsome pool.  I thought it lucky for Bill, indeed for
all of us, that the native youth's back happened to be turned at the
time, for I am certain that if the poor savages had come to know that we
had so rudely handled their god, we should have had to fight our way back
to the ship.  As we retraced our steps I questioned my companion further
on this subject.

"How comes it, Bill, that the mothers allow such a dreadful thing to be
done
Allow it? the mothers _do_ it!  It seems to me that there's nothing too
fiendish or diabolical for these people to do.  Why, in some of the
islands they have an institution called the _Areoi_, and the persons
connected with that body are ready for any wickedness that mortal man can
devise.  In fact they stick at nothing; and one o' their customs is to
murder their infants the moment they are born.  The mothers agree to it,
and the fathers do it.  And the mildest ways they have of murdering them
is by sticking them through the body with sharp splinters of bamboo,
strangling them with their thumbs, or burying them alive and stamping
them to death while under the sod
But it's a curious fact
it's
a curious fact, that wherever the missionaries get a footin' all these
things come to an end at once, an' the savages take to doin' each other
good, and singin' psalms, just like Methodists
God bless the missionaries
God bless and
prosper the missionaries till they get a footing in every island of the
sea
I would say Amen to that prayer, Ralph, if I could
but it would be a mere mockery for a man to ask a
blessing for others who dare not ask one for himself.  But, Ralph
I've not told you half o' the abominations I have seen durin'
my life in these seas.  If we pull long together, lad, I'll tell you
more; and if times have not changed very much since I was here last, it's
like that you'll have a chance o' seeing a little for yourself before
long
come and see
What sort of amusement is this surf swimming
It's a very favourite lark with these 'xtr'or'nary critters
Ye see, Ralph, them fellows take to the water as soon
a'most as they can walk, an' long before they can do that anything
respectably, so that they are as much at home in the sea as on the land.
Well, ye see, I 'spose they found swimmin' for miles out to sea, and
divin' fathoms deep, wasn't exciting enough, so they invented this game
o' the surf.  Each man and boy, as you see, has got a short board or
plank, with which he swims out for a mile or more to sea, and then,
gettin' on the top o' yon thundering breaker, they come to shore on the
top of it, yellin' and screechin' like fiends.  It's a marvel to me that
they're not dashed to shivers on the coral reef, for sure an' sartin am I
that if any o' us tried it, we wouldn't be worth the fluke of a broken
anchor after the wave fell.  But there they go
Hallo, Ralph
that chap seems to have taken a
sudden fancy to you, or he must be an old acquaintance
Right, Bill
he is indeed an old acquaintance
And ask him
who
she is, for I am persuaded she is of a different race from the
Feejeeans
You're right, Ralph
she's not a Feejee girl, but a Samoan.  How she ever came to this place
the chief does not very clearly explain, but he says she was taken in
war, and that he got her three years ago, an' kept her as his daughter
ever since.  Lucky for her, poor girl, else she'd have been roasted and
eaten like the rest
But why does Tararo frown and look so angry
Because the girl's somewhat obstinate, like most o' the sex, an' won't
marry the man he wants her to.  It seems that a chief of some other
island came on a visit to Tararo and took a fancy to her, but she
wouldn't have him on no account, bein' already in love, and engaged to a
young chief whom Tararo hates, and she kicked up a desperate shindy; so,
as he was going on a war expedition in his canoe, he left her to think
about it, sayin' he'd be back in six months or so, when he hoped she
wouldn't be so obstropolous.  This happened just a week ago; an' Tararo
says that if she's not ready to go, when the chief returns, as his bride,
she'll be sent to him as a _long pig_
As a long pig
why what does he mean by
that
He means somethin' very unpleasant
You
see these blackguards eat men an' women just as readily as they eat pigs;
and, as baked pigs and baked men are very like each other in appearance,
they call men _long_ pigs.  If Avatea goes to this fellow as a long pig,
it's all up with her, poor thing
Is she on the island now
No, she's at Tararo's island
And where does it lie
About fifty or sixty miles to the south'ard o' this
but I
Mao! mao!-- a shark! a
shark
But
such a thing as you have
seen just now don't frighten them much.  They'll be at it again to-morrow
or next day, just as if there wasn't a single shark between Feejee and
Nova Zembla
Ah
there he's at his old tricks again.  That's his
way when he gets drink.  The natives make a sort of drink o' their own,
and it makes him bad enough; but when he gets brandy he's like a wild
tiger.  The captain, I suppose, has given him a bottle, as usual, to keep
him in good humour.  After drinkin' he usually goes to sleep, and the
people know it well and keep out of his way, for fear they should waken
him.  Even the babies are taken out of ear-shot; for, when he's waked up,
he rushes out just as you see him now, and spears or clubs the first
person he meets
Have these wretched creatures no law among themselves
which
can restrain such wickedness
None
The chief's word is law.  He might kill and eat a
dozen of his own subjects any day for nothing more than his own pleasure,
and nobody would take the least notice of it
I have only to raise my little finger just now, and
my big gun will blow your whole village to atoms in five minutes
Here, Ralph, I've got a mission for you, lad.  That blackguard Romata is
in the dumps, and nothing will mollify him but a gift; so do you go up to
his house and give him these whales' teeth, with my compliments.  Take
with you one of the men who can speak the language
They're paltry enough to you or me, Ralph, but they're considered of
great value by them chaps.  They're a sort o' cash among them.  The red
ones are the most prized, one of them bein' equal to twenty o' the white
ones.  I suppose the only reason for their bein' valuable is that there
ain't many of them, and they're hard to be got
Go
go, tell your captain that he
may cut wood to-day, but not to-morrow.  He must come ashore,-- I want to
have a palaver with him
There's mischief brewin' in that black rascal's head.  I know him of
old.  But what comes here
More murder
Surely they are not going to murder them
I don't know, Ralph
what they're goin' to do with them;
but I fear they mean no good when they tie fellows up in that way
I tell ye what it is, Ralph, I must be at the bottom o' that affair.  Let
us follow these black scoundrels and see what they're goin' to do
Come along, lad; let's away
I don't half like it
It seems to me that we'll only
have hard fightin' and no pay
No pay
Do you
call a good cargo all for nothing no pay
Very true
but we've got the cargo aboard.  Why not
cut your cable and take French leave o' them?  What's the use o' tryin'
to lick the blackguards when it'll do us no manner o' good
Mate
you talk like a fresh-water
sailor.  I can only attribute this shyness to some strange delusion; for
surely
surely I am not to suppose that _you_ have become soft-hearted!  Besides,
you are wrong in regard to the cargo being aboard; there's a good quarter
of it lying in the woods, and that blackguard chief knows it and won't
let me take it off.  He defied us to do our worst, yesterday
Defied us! did he
Poor
contemptible thing
And yet he seems not so contemptible but that you are afraid to attack
him
Who said I was afraid
I'm as ready as any
man in the ship.  But, captain, what is it that you intend to do
I intend to muffle the sweeps and row the schooner up to the head of the
creek there, from which point we can command the pile of sandal-wood with
our gun.  Then I shall land with all the men except two, who shall take
care of the schooner and be ready with the boat to take us off.  We can
creep through the woods to the head of the village, where these cannibals
are always dancing round their suppers of human flesh, and if the
carbines of the men are loaded with a heavy charge of buck-shot, we can
drop forty or fifty at the first volley.  After that the thing will be
easy enough.  The savages will take to the mountains in a body, and we
shall take what we require, up anchor, and away
Give the men an extra glass of grog, and don't forget the buck-shot
I'll tell you what I'll do, Ralph: I'll swim ashore after dark and fix a
musket to a tree not far from the place where we'll have to land, and
I'll tie a long string to the trigger, so that when our fellows cross it
they'll let it off, and so alarm the village in time to prevent an
attack, but not in time to prevent us gettin' back to the boat; so,
master captain
you'll be baulked at
least for once in your life by Bloody Bill
Now, lads
don't be in a hurry, aim low, and don't
waste your first shots
There's no need of leaving two in the boat
we shall want all our hands.  Let Ralph stay
Forward
Stop! Ralph, stop!-- there now, push off
Hallo! Ralph, boy, rouse up, lad, we're safe now.  Poor thing, I believe
he's fainted
Here, take a
drop o' this, it'll do you good, my boy
Well, Ralph, awake at last, my boy; you have slept long and soundly
Oh, Bill
what is the matter with you?  You
are ill.  You must have been wounded
Even so, lad
I've got an ugly
wound, I fear, and I've been waiting for you to waken, to ask you to get
me a drop o' brandy and a mouthful o' bread from the cabin lockers.  You
seemed to sleep so sweetly, Ralph, that I didn't like to disturb you.  But
I don't feel up to much just now
Ha
I'm
the better of that nap, Ralph; I feel twice the man I was
Nay, Bill you must not move, but lie still while I look at your wound.
I'll make a comfortable bed for you here on deck, and get you some
breakfast.  After that you shall tell me how you got it.  Cheer up,
Bill
you'll be all right
in a little, and I'll be a capital nurse to you though I'm no doctor
Now then, Bill
let's fall to.  I'm very hungry myself, I can tell you; but -- I
forgot -- your wound
let me look at it
However
sit down, Ralph, and I'll tell you all about it
You did that a-purpose, you villain!' he said, with a tremendous oath,
and, drawin' a pistol from his belt, let fly right into my breast.  I
fell at once, and remembered no more till I was startled and brought
round by the most awful yell I ever heard in my life, except, maybe, the
shrieks o' them poor critters that were crushed to death under yon big
canoe.  Jumpin' up, I looked round, and, through the trees, saw a fire
gleamin' not far off, the light o' which showed me the captain and men
tied hand and foot, each to a post, and the savages dancin' round them
like demons.  I had scarce looked for a second, when I saw one o' them go
up to the captain flourishing a knife, and, before I could wink, he
plunged it into his breast, while another yell, like the one that roused
me, rang upon my ear.  I didn't wait for more, but, bounding up, went
crashing through the bushes into the woods.  The black fellows caught
sight of me, however, but not in time to prevent me jumpin' into the
boat, as you know
But now, Bill
it behoves us to think about the future, and
what course of action we shall pursue.  Here we are, on the wide Pacific,
in a well-appointed schooner, which is our own,-- at least no one has a
better claim to it than we have,-- and the world lies before us.  Moreover,
here comes a breeze, so we must make up our minds which way to steer
Ralph, boy
it matters not to me which way we go.  I
fear that my time is short now.  Go where you will.  I'm content
Well then, Bill, I think we had better steer to the Coral Island, and
see what has become of my dear old comrades, Jack and Peterkin.  I
believe the island has no name, but the captain once pointed it out to me
on the chart, and I marked it afterwards; so, as we know pretty well our
position just now, I think I can steer to it.  Then, as to working the
vessel, it is true I cannot hoist the sails single-handed, but luckily we
have enough of sail set already, and if it should come on to blow a
squall, I could at least drop the peaks of the main and fore sails, and
clew them up partially without help, and throw her head close into the
wind, so as to keep her all shaking till the violence of the squall is
past.  And if we have continued light breezes, I'll rig up a complication
of blocks and fix them to the top-sail halyards, so that I shall be able
to hoist the sails without help.  'Tis true I'll require half a day to
hoist them, but we don't need to mind that.  Then I'll make a sort of
erection on deck to screen you from the sun, Bill; and if you can only
manage to sit beside the tiller and steer for two hours every day, so as
to let me get a nap, I'll engage to let you off duty all the rest of the
twenty-four hours.  And if you don't feel able for steering, I'll lash
the helm and heave to, while I get you your breakfasts and dinners; and
so we'll manage famously, and soon reach the Coral Island
And what will you do
if it comes on to blow a storm
Bill, when a man
has done all that he _can_ do, he ought to leave the rest to God
Oh, Ralph
I wish that I had the feelin's about God that you seem to have,
at this hour.  I'm dyin', Ralph; yet I, who have braved death a hundred
times, am afraid to die.  I'm afraid to enter the next world.  Something
within tells me there will be a reckoning when I go there.  But it's all
over with me, Ralph.  I feel that there's no chance o' my bein' saved
Don't say that, Bill
don't say that.  I'm
quite sure there's hope even for you, but I can't remember the words of
the Bible that make me think so.  Is there not a Bible on board, Bill
No; the last that was in the ship belonged to a poor boy that was taken
aboard against his will.  He died, poor lad, I think, through ill
treatment and fear.  After he was gone the captain found his Bible and
flung it overboard
Bill
Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and
thou shalt be saved
Ay, Ralph, I've heard the missionaries say that before now, but what
good can it do me?  It's not for me that.  It's not for the likes o' me
Ralph, I've
led a terrible life.  I've been a sailor since I was a boy, and I've gone
from bad to worse ever since I left my father's roof.  I've been a pirate
three years now.  It is true I did not choose the trade, but I was
inveigled aboard this schooner and kept here by force till I became
reckless and at last joined them.  Since that time my hand has been
steeped in human blood again and again.  Your young heart would grow cold
if I --; but why should I go on?  'Tis of no use, Ralph; my doom is
fixed
Bill
Though your sins be red like crimson, they shall be
white as snow.'  'Only believe
Only believe
I've heard men
talk o' believing as if it was easy.  Ha! 'tis easy enough for a man to
point to a rope and say, 'I believe that would bear my weight;' but 'tis
another thing for a man to catch hold o' that rope, and swing himself by
it over the edge of a precipice
Hist! Ralph
there's a squall coming,
lad.  Look alive, boy.  Clew up the fore-sail.  Drop the main-sail peak.
Them squalls come quick sometimes
Now, boy
keep her close to the wind
Ralph, let me hear those two texts
again
Are ye sure, lad, ye saw them in the Bible
Quite sure
Hallo
what, ho! Peterkin!  Jack!
hallo! it's me
pumped me dry
Well, you must know
after you had dived out of the cave,
on the day you were taken away from us, we waited very patiently for half
an hour, not expecting you to return before the end of that time.  Then
we began to upbraid you for staying so long, when you knew we would be
anxious; but when an hour passed, we became alarmed, and I resolved at
all hazards to dive out, and see what had become of you, although I felt
for poor Peterkin, because, as he truly said, 'If you never come back,
I'm shut up here for life.'  However, I promised not to run any risk, and
he let me go; which, to say truth, I thought very courageous of him
I should just think it was
Well
you may guess my consternation when you did not
answer to my halloo.  At first I imagined that the pirates must have
killed you, and left you in the bush, or thrown you into the sea; then it
occurred to me that this would have served no end of theirs, so I came to
the conclusion that they must have carried you away with them.  As this
thought struck me, I observed the pirate schooner standing away to the
nor'ard, almost hull-down on the horizon, and I sat down on the rocks to
watch her as she slowly sank from my sight.  And I tell you, Ralph, my
boy, that I shed more tears that time, at losing you, than I have done, I
verify believe, all my life before
Pardon me, Jack, for interrupting
surely you must be
mistaken in that; you've often told me that, when you were a baby, you
used to howl and roar from morning to
Hold your tongue, Peterkin
Well, after the schooner had
disappeared, I dived back into the cave, much to Peterkin's relief, and
told him what I had seen.  We sat down and had a long talk over this
matter, and then we agreed to make a regular, systematic search through
the woods, so as to make sure, at least, that you had not been killed.
But now we thought of the difficulty of getting out of the cave without
your help.  Peterkin became dreadfully nervous when he thought of this;
and I must confess that I felt some alarm, for, of course, I could not
hope alone to take him out so quickly as we two together had brought him
in; and he himself vowed that, if we had been a moment longer with him
that time, he would have had to take a breath of salt water.  However,
there was no help for it, and I endeavoured to calm his fears as well as
I could: 'for,' said I, 'you can't live here, Peterkin;' to which he
replied, 'Of course not, Jack, I can only die here, and, as that's not at
all desirable, you had better propose something.'  So I suggested that he
should take a good long breath, and trust himself to me.

"'Might we not make a large bag of cocoa-nut cloth, into which I could
shove my head, and tie it tight round my neck?' he asked, with a haggard
smile.  'It might let me get one breath under water!'

"'No use,' said I; 'it would fill in a moment and suffocate you.  I see
nothing for it, Peterkin, if you really can't keep your breath so long,
but to let me knock you down, and carry you out while in a state of
insensibility.'

"But Peterkin didn't relish this idea.  He seemed to fear that I could
not be able to measure the exact force of the blow, and might, on the one
hand, hit him so softly as to render a second or third blow necessary,
which would be very uncomfortable; or, on the other hand, give him such a
smash as would entirely spoil his figure-head, or, mayhap, knock the life
out of him altogether!  At last I got him persuaded to try to hold his
breath, and commit himself to me; so he agreed, and down we went.  But I
had not got him half way through, when he began to struggle and kick like
a wild bull, burst from my grasp, and hit against the roof of the tunnel.
I was therefore, obliged to force him violently back into the cave gain,
where he rose panting to the surface.  In short, he had lost his presence
of mind, and
Nothing of the sort
I had only lost my
wind; and if I had not had presence of mind enough to kick as I did, I
should have bu'st in your arms
Well, well, so be it
but the upshot of it
was, that we had to hold another consultation on the point, and I really
believe that, had it not been for a happy thought of mine, we should have
been consulting there yet
I wish we had
I'm sure,
Ralph, if I had thought that you were coming back again, I would
willingly have awaited your return for months, rather than have endured
the mental agony which I went through!  But proceed
The thought was this
that I should tie Peterkin's
hands and feet with cords, and then lash him firmly to a stout pole about
five feet long, in order to render him quite powerless, and keep him
straight and stiff.  You should have seen his face of horror, Ralph, when
I suggested this: but he came to see that it was his only chance, and
told me to set about it as fast as I could; 'for,' said he, 'this is no
jokin', Jack, _I_ can tell you, and the sooner it's done the better.'  I
soon procured the cordage and a suitable pole, with which I returned to
the cave, and lashed him as stiff and straight as an Egyptian mummy; and,
to say truth, he was no bad representation of what an English mummy would
be, if there were such things, for he was as white as a dead man
Now,' said Peterkin, in a tremulous voice, 'swim with me as near to the
edge of the hole as you can before you dive, then let me take a long
breath, and, as I sha'nt be able to speak after I've taken it, you'll
watch my face, and the moment you see me wink -- dive!  And oh!' he added,
earnestly, 'pray don't be long!'

"I promised to pay the strictest attention to his wishes, and swam with
him to the outlet of the cave.  Here I paused.  'Now then,' said I, 'pull
away at the wind, lad
Peterkin had taken in such an awful load of wind that, on reaching the
free air, he let it out with a yell loud enough to have been heard a mile
off, and then, the change in his feelings was so sudden and great, that
he did not wait till we landed, but began, tied up as he was, to shout
and sing for joy as I supported him with my left arm to the shore.
However, in the middle of a laugh that a hyaena might have envied, I let
him accidentally slip, which extinguished him in a moment.

"After this happy deliverance, we immediately began our search for your
dead body, Ralph, and you have no idea how low our hearts sank as we set
off, day after day, to examine the valleys and mountain sides with the
utmost care.  In about three weeks we completed the survey of the whole
island, and had at least the satisfaction of knowing that you had not
been killed.  But it occurred to us that you might have been thrown into
the sea, so we examined the sands and the lagoon carefully, and
afterwards went all round the outer reef.  One day, while we were upon
the reef, Peterkin espied a small dark object lying among the rocks,
which seemed to be quite different from the surrounding stones.  We
hastened towards the spot, and found it to be a small keg.  On knocking
out the head we discovered that it was gunpowder
It was I who sent you that, Jack
Fork out
Down with the money, sir, else I'll
have you shut up for life in a debtor's prison the moment we return to
England
I'll give you an I.O.U. in the meantime
so
sit down and be quiet.  The fact is, Ralph, when we discovered this keg
of powder, Peterkin immediately took me a bet of a thousand pounds that
you had something to do with it, and I took him a bet of ten thousand
that you had not.

"Peterkin was right then
Well, we found it very useful
although some of it had
got a little damp; and we furbished up the old pistol, with which
Peterkin is a crack shot now.  But, to continue.  We did not find any
other vestige of you on the reef, and, finally, gave up all hope of ever
seeing you again.  After this the island became a dreary place to us, and
we began to long for a ship to heave in sight and take us off.  But now
that you're back again, my dear fellow, it looks as bright and cheerful
as it used to do, and I love it as much as ever
And now
I have a great desire to visit some of the
other islands of the South Seas.  Here we have a first-rate schooner at
our disposal, so I don't see what should hinder us
Just the very thing I was going to propose
I vote for
starting at once
Well, then
it seems to me that we could not do better than
shape our course for the island on which Avatea lives, and endeavour to
persuade Tararo to let her marry the black fellow to whom she is engaged,
instead of making a long pig of her.  If he has a spark of gratitude in
him he'll do it.  Besides, having become champions for this girl once
before, it behoves us, as true knights, not to rest until we set her
free; at least, all the heroes in all the story-books I have ever read
would count it foul disgrace to leave such a work unfinished
I'm sure I don't know, or care, what your knights in story-books would
do
but I'm certain that it would be capital fun, so I'm
your man whenever you want me
But there may be great danger in this attempt
will you, lads, go with me in spite of
this
Go with you
Can you doubt it
For a moment
Now, boys
before we go farther in this business, we must go over the
pros and cons of it; for, although you have so generously consented to
stick by me through thick and thin, it would be unfair did I not see that
you thoroughly understand the danger of what we are about to attempt
Oh! bother the danger
I wonder to hear _you_, Jack,
talk of danger.  When a fellow begins to talk about it, he'll soon come
to magnify it to such a degree that he'll not be fit to face it when it
comes, no more than a suckin' baby
Nay, Peterkin
I won't be jested out of it.  I
grant you, that, when we've once resolved to act, and have made up our
minds what to do, we should think no more of danger.  But, before we have
so resolved, it behoves us to look at it straight in the face, and
examine into it, and walk round it; for if we flinch at a distant view,
we're sure to run away when the danger is near.  Now, I understand from
you, Ralph, that the island is inhabited by thorough-going, out-and-out
cannibals, whose principal law is --'Might is right, and the weakest goes
to the wall
Yes
so Bill gave me to understand.  He told me, however,
that, at the southern side of it, the missionaries had obtained a footing
amongst an insignificant tribe.  A native teacher had been sent there by
the Wesleyans, who had succeeded in persuading the chief at that part to
embrace Christianity.  But instead of that being of any advantage to our
enterprise, it seems the very reverse; for the chief Tararo is a
determined heathen, and persecutes the Christians,-- who are far too weak
in numbers to offer any resistance,-- and looks with dislike upon all
white men, whom he regards as propagators of the new faith
'Tis a pity
that the Christian tribe is so small, for we
shall scarcely be safe under their protection, I fear.  If Tararo takes
it into his head to wish for our vessel, or to kill ourselves, he could
take us from them by force.  You say that the native missionary talks
English
So I believe
Then, what I propose is this
We will run round to the
south side of the island, and cut anchor off the Christian village.  We
are too far away just now to have been descried by any of the savages, so
we shall get there unobserved, and have time to arrange our plans before
the heathen tribes know of our presence.  But, in doing this, we run the
risk of being captured by the ill-disposed tribes, and being very ill
used, if not -- a
Roasted alive and eaten
Come, out with it, Jack;
according to your own showing, it's well to look the danger straight in
the face
Well, that is the worst of it, certainly.  Are you prepared, then, to
take your chance of that
I've been prepared and had my mind made up long ago
The fact is, Jack, I don't believe that Tararo will be so
ungrateful as to eat us; and I'm quite sure that he'll be too happy to
grant us whatever we ask: so the sooner we go in and win the better
Good day, gentlemen; we are happy to see you at Mango -- you are heartily
welcome
You must be the native
missionary teacher of whom I have heard -- are you not
I am.  I have the joy to be a servant of the Lord Jesus at this
station
You're the very man I want to see, then
that's lucky.
Come down to the cabin, friend, and have a glass of wine.  I wish
particularly to speak with you.  My men there
will look after your people
Thank you
I do
not drink wine or any strong drink
Oh! then, there's lots of water, and you can have biscuit
Now, 'pon my word, that's cool
his _men_, forsooth!
Well, since we are to be men, we may as well come it as strong over these
black chaps as we can.  Hallo, there
here's for you
Well, captain, have you any communications to make to your _men_
Yes
ready about, mind the helm and clew up your tongue,
while I con the schooner through the passage in the reef.  The teacher,
who seems a first-rate fellow, says it's quite deep, and good anchorage
within the lagoon close to the shore
Moreover
I find that she belongs to one of the Samoan
Islands, where Christianity had been introduced long before her capture
by the heathens of a neighbouring island; and the very day after she was
taken, she was to have joined the church which had been planted there by
that excellent body, the London Missionary Society.  The teacher tells
me, too, that the poor girl has fallen in love with a Christian chief,
who lives on an island some fifty miles or so to the south of this one,
and that she is meditating a desperate attempt at escape.  So, you see,
we have come in the nick of time.  I fancy that this chief is the fellow
whom you heard of, Ralph, at the Island of Emo.  Besides all this, the
heathen savages are at war among themselves, and there's to be a battle
fought the day after to-morrow, in which the principal leader is Tararo;
so that we'll not be able to commence our negotiations with the rascally
chief till the day after
What a convincing proof that Christianity is of God
I say, Mister Teacher, why don't you set traps for these brutes?-- surely
you are not fond of them
No
we would be glad to get rid of
them if we could; but if we were to trap all the rats on the island, it
would occupy our whole time
Are they, then, so numerous
They swarm everywhere.  The poor heathens on the north side eat them,
and think them very sweet.  So did my people formerly; but they do not
eat so many now, because the missionary who was last here expressed
disgust at it.  The poor people asked if it was wrong to eat rats; and he
told them that it was certainly not wrong, but that the people of England
would be much disgusted were they asked to eat rats
What a pity you have no cats
We would, indeed, be glad to have a few
but
they are difficult to be got.  The hogs, we find, are very good
rat-killers, but they do not seem to be able to keep the numbers down.  I
have heard that they are better than cats
I smiled just now when I remembered the fate of the first cat that was
taken to Raratonga.  This is one of the stations of the London Missionary
Society.  It, like our own, is infested with rats, and a cat was brought
at last to the island.  It was a large black one.  On being turned loose,
instead of being content to stay among men, the cat took to the
mountains, and lived in a wild state, sometimes paying visits during the
night to the houses of the natives; some of whom, living at a distance
from the settlement, had not heard of the cat's arrival, and were
dreadfully frightened in consequence, calling it a 'monster of the deep,'
and flying in terror away from it.  One night the cat, feeling a desire
for company, I suppose, took its way to the house of a chief, who had
recently been converted to Christianity, and had begun to learn to read
and pray.  The chief's wife, who was sitting awake at his side while he
slept, beheld with horror two fires glistening in the doorway, and heard
with surprise a mysterious voice.  Almost petrified with fear, she awoke
her husband, and began to upbraid him for forsaking his old religion, and
burning his god, who, she declared, was now come to be avenged of them.
'Get up and pray! get up and pray!' she cried.  The chief arose, and, on
opening his eyes, beheld the same glaring lights, and heard the same
ominous sound.  Impelled by the extreme urgency of the case, he
commenced, with all possible vehemence, to vociferate the alphabet, as a
prayer to God to deliver them from the vengeance of Satan!  On hearing
this, the cat, as much alarmed as themselves, fled precipitately away,
leaving the chief and his wife congratulating themselves on the efficacy
of their prayer
they seemed to
know a considerable deal more than Jack himself
The islands of the Pacific
are of three different
kinds or classes.  Those of the first class are volcanic, mountainous,
and wild; some shooting their jagged peaks into the clouds at an
elevation of ten and fifteen thousand feet.  Those of the second class
are of crystalized limestone, and vary in height from one hundred to five
hundred feet.  The hills on these are not so wild or broken as those of
the first class, but are richly clothed with vegetation, and very
beautiful.  I have no doubt that the Coral Island on which you were
wrecked was one of this class.  They are supposed to have been upheaved
from the bottom of the sea by volcanic agency, but they are not
themselves volcanic in their nature, neither are they of coral formation.
Those of the third class are the low coralline islands usually having
lagoons of water in their midst; they are very numerous.

"As to the manner in which coral islands and reefs are formed; there are
various opinions on this point.  I will give you what seems to me the
most probable theory,-- a theory, I may add, which is held by some of the
good and scientific missionaries.  It is well known that there is much
lime in salt water; it is also known that coral is composed of lime.  It
is supposed that the polypes, or coral insects, have the power of
attracting this lime to their bodies; and with this material they build
their little cells or habitations.  They choose the summit of a volcano,
or the top of a submarine mountain, as a foundation on which to build;
for it is found that they never work at any great depth below the
surface.  On this they work; the polypes on the mountain top, of course,
reach the surface first, then those at the outer edges reach the top
sooner than the others between them and the centre, thus forming the
coral reef surrounding the lagoon of water and the central island; after
that the insects within the lagoon cease working.  When the surface of
the water is reached, these myriads of wonderful creatures die.  Then
birds visit the spot, and seeds are thus conveyed thither, which take
root, and spring up, and flourish.  Thus are commenced those coralline
islets of which you have seen so many in these seas.  The reefs round the
large islands are formed in a similar manner.  When we consider
the smallness of the architects used by our heavenly
Father in order to form those lovely and innumerable islands, we are
filled with much of that feeling which induced the ancient king to
exclaim, 'How manifold, O God, are thy works! in wisdom thou hast made
them all
When missionaries
were first sent here, three years ago, a small vessel brought them; and
the chief, who is now dead, promised to treat well the two native
teachers who were left with their wives on the island.  But scarcely had
the boat which landed them returned to the ship, than the natives began
to maltreat their guests, taking away all they possessed, and offering
them further violence, so that, when the boat was sent in haste to fetch
them away, the clothes of both men and women were torn nearly off their
backs.

"Two years after this the vessel visited them again, and I, being in her,
volunteered to land alone, without any goods whatever; begging that my
wife might be brought to me the following year,-- that is, _this_ year;
and, as you see, she is with me.  But the surf was so high that the boat
could not land me; so with nothing on but my trousers and shirt, and with
a few catechisms and a Bible, besides some portions of the Scripture
translated into the Mango tongue, I sprang into the sea, and swam ashore
on the crest of a breaker.  I was instantly dragged up the beach by the
natives; who, on finding I had nothing worth having upon me, let me
alone.  I then made signs to my friends in the ship to leave me; which
they did.  At fist the natives listened to me in silence, but laughed at
what I said while I preached the gospel of our blessed Saviour Jesus
Christ to them.  Afterwards they treated me ill sometimes; but I
persevered, and continued to dwell among them, and dispute, and exhort
them to give up their sinful ways of life, burn their idols, and come to
Jesus.

"About a month after I landed, I heard that the chief was dead.  He was
the father of the present chief, who is now a most consistent member of
the church.  It is a custom here that, when a chief dies, his wives are
strangled and buried with him.  Knowing this, I hastened to his house to
endeavour to prevent such cruelty if possible.  When I arrived, I found
two of the wives had already been killed, while another was in the act of
being strangled.  I pleaded hard for her, but it was too late; she was
already dead.  I then entreated the son to spare the fourth wife; and,
after much hesitation, my prayer was granted: but, in half an hour
afterwards, this poor woman repented of being unfaithful, as she termed
it, to her husband, and insisted on being strangled; which was
accordingly done.

"All this time the chief's son was walking up and down before his
father's house with a brow black as thunder.  When he entered, I went in
with him, and found, to my surprise, that his father was not dead!  The
old man was sitting on a mat in a corner, with an expression of placid
resignation on his face.

"'Why,' said I, 'have you strangled your father's wives before he is
dead?'

"To this the son replied, 'He is dead.  That is no longer my father.  He
is as good as dead now.  He is to be _buried alive_.'

"I now remembered having heard that it is a custom among the Feejee
islanders, that when the reigning chief grows old or infirm, the heir to
the chieftainship has a right to depose his father; in which case he is
considered as dead, and is buried alive.  The young chief was now about
to follow this custom, and, despite my earnest entreaties and pleadings,
the old chief was buried that day before my eyes in the same grave with
his four strangled wives!  Oh! my heart groaned when I saw this, and I
prayed to God to open the hearts of these poor creatures, as he had
already opened mine, and pour into them the light and the love of the
gospel of Jesus.  My prayer was answered very soon.  A week afterwards,
the son, who was now chief of the tribe, came to me, bearing his god on
his shoulders, and groaning beneath its weight.  Flinging it down at my
feet, he desired me to burn it!

"You may conceive how overjoyed I was at this.  I sprang up and embraced
him, while I shed tears of joy.  Then we made a fire, and burned the god
to ashes, amid an immense concourse of the people, who seemed terrified
at what was being done, and shrank back when we burned the god, expecting
some signal vengeance to be taken upon us; but seeing that nothing
happened, they changed their minds, and thought that our God must be the
true one after all.  From that time the mission prospered steadily, and
now, while there is not a single man in the tribe who has not burned his
household gods, and become a convert to Christianity, there are not a
few, I hope, who are true followers of the Lamb, having been plucked as
brands from the burning by Him who can save unto the uttermost.  I will
not tell you more of our progress at this time, but you see
the village and the church did not exist a
year ago
and if they
should
the Lord is on our side; of whom shall we be
afraid
Have the missionaries many stations in these seas
Oh, yes.  The London Missionary Society have a great many in the Tahiti
group, and other islands in that quarter.  Then the Wesleyans have the
Feejee Islands all to themselves, and the Americans have many stations in
other groups.  But still, my friend, there are hundreds of islands here
the natives of which have never heard of Jesus, or the good word of God,
or the Holy Spirit; and thousands are living and dying in the practice of
those terrible sins and bloody murders of which you have already heard.  I
trust, my friends
I trust
that if you ever return to England, you will tell your Christian friends
that the horrors which they hear of in regard to these islands are
_literally true_, and that when they have heard the worst, the '_half has
not been told them_;' for there are perpetrated here foul deeds of
darkness of which man may not speak.  You may also tell them
tell them of the blessings
that the gospel has wrought _here_
That is owing to the lime with which they are plastered
When the natives were converted, as I have described, I set
them to work to build cottages for themselves, and also this handsome
church which you see.  When the framework and other parts of the houses
were up, I sent the people to fetch coral from the sea.  They brought
immense quantities.  Then I made them cut wood, and, piling the coral
above it, set it on fire.

"'Look! look!' cried the poor people, in amazement; 'what wonderful
people the Christians are!  He is roasting stones.  We shall not need
taro or bread-fruit any more; we may eat stones!'

"But their surprise was still greater when the coral was reduced to a
fine soft white powder.  They immediately set up a great shout, and,
mingling the lime with water, rubbed their faces and their bodies all
over with it, and ran through the village screaming with delight.  They
were also much surprised at another thing they saw me do.  I wished to
make some household furniture, and constructed a turning-lathe to assist
me.  The first thing that I turned was the leg of a sofa; which was no
sooner finished than the chief seized it with wonder and delight, and ran
through the village exhibiting it to the people, who looked upon it with
great admiration.  The chief then, tying a string to it, hung it round
his neck as an ornament!  He afterwards told me that if he had seen it
before he became a Christian he would have made it his god
Now, lads
I'm off to see the battle.  I've no particular
fondness for seein' blood-shed, but I must find out the nature o' these
fellows and see their customs with my own eyes, so that I may be able to
speak of it again, if need be, authoritatively.  It's only six miles off,
and we don't run much more risk than that of getting a rap with a stray
stone or an over-shot arrow.  Will you go
To be sure we will
If they chance to see us we'll cut and run for it
Dear me
_you_ run! thought you would scorn to run
from any one
So I would, if it were my duty to fight
but as
I don't want to fight, and don't intend to fight, if they offer to attack
us I'll run away like the veriest coward that ever went by the name of
Peterkin.  So come along
You do not know
the danger you run in
venturing amongst these ferocious savages.  I feel much pity for poor
Avatea; but you are not likely to succeed in saving her, and you may die
in the attempt
Well
I am not afraid to die in a good cause
Nay, further
if such be your unhappy case, you
are, in the sight of God, much worse than these savages (forgive me, my
young friends, for saying so); for they have no knowledge, no light, and
do not profess to believe; while you, on the contrary, have been brought
up in the light of the blessed gospel and call yourselves Christians.
These poor savages are indeed the enemies of our Lord; but you, if ye be
not true believers, are traitors
Now, lads
I'm not going to take any weapons with me, and I recommend you to take
none either.  We are altogether in the power of these savages, and the
utmost we could do, if they were to attack us, would be to kill a few of
them before we were ourselves overpowered.  I think that our only chance
of success lies in mild measures.  Don't you think so
What says he
He says that the chief is just going to the temple of his god and cannot
see us yet; so we must be patient, my friend
Well
if he won't come to see me, I'll e'en go and
see him.  Besides, I have a great desire to witness their proceedings at
this temple of theirs.  Will you go with me, friend
I cannot
I must not go to the
heathen temples and witness their inhuman rites, except for the purpose
of condemning their wickedness and folly
Very good
then I'll go alone, for I cannot condemn
their doings till I have seen them
clothed and in their
right mind
Oh, Jack!  I have a terrible dread that they are going to commit some of
their cruel practices on these wretched men.  We had better not go to the
temple.  We shall only be horrified without being able to do any good,
for I fear they are going to kill them
No fear, Ralph; the sufferings of these poor fellows are over
long ago
lovo
Come, come
we have
seen enough, enough, far more than enough!  Let us go
And what is it that my friends wish to say to me
Tell him
that I consider that I have a right to ask this
of him, having not only saved the girl's life, but the lives of his own
people also; and say that I wish her to be allowed to follow her own
wishes, and join the Christians
What says he
I regret to say that he will not listen to the proposal.  He says he has
pledged his word to his friend that the girl shall be sent to him, and a
deputy is even now on this island awaiting the fulfilment of the pledge
Tell Tararo
that if he does not grant my demand, it will be worse for
him.  Say I have a big gun on board my schooner that will blow his
village into the sea, if he does not give up the girl
Nay, my friend
I will not tell him that; we
must overcome evil with good
What does my friend say
He is displeased
What are they doing there
I think that they are laying out a gift which they intend to present to
some one
Oh! my dear young friend
she is to be made a sacrifice
even now
Is she
Come on, the whole nation
of you, an ye like it, and do your worst
Stay your hands, warriors!  It is not your part to judge in this matter.
It is for Tararo, the chief, to say whether or not the young man shall
live or die
Desist.  The young man's life is mine
You have forfeited your liberty and life to
me.  Submit yourself, for we are more numerous than the sand upon the
shore.  You are but one; why should you die
Villain
I may die, but, assuredly, I
shall not perish alone.  I will not submit until you promise that this
girl shall not be injured
You are very bold
but very foolish.  Yet
I will say that Avatea shall not be sent away, at least for three days
You had better accept these terms
If you persist in this mad defiance, you will be slain, and Avatea will
be lost.  Three days are worth having
Do not give way to anger, my young friend.  God has given us three days,
and we must use the means that are in our power to free this poor girl
from slavery.  We must not sit in idle disappointment, we must act
Act
it
is mockery to balk of acting when one is bound hand and foot.  How can I
act?  I cannot fight a whole nation of savages single-handed.  Yes
I can fight them, but I cannot conquer them,
or save Avatea
Patience, my friend; your spirit is not a good one just now.  You cannot
expect that blessing which alone can insure success, unless you are more
submissive.  I will tell you my plans if you will listen
Listen
of course I will, my good fellow; I did
not know you had any plans.  Out with them.  I only hope you will show me
how I can get the girl on board of this schooner, and I'd up anchor and
away in no time.  But proceed with your plans
Ah! my friend, if one fathom of your anchor
chain were to rattle, as you drew it in, a thousand warriors would be
standing on your deck.  No, no, that could not be done.  Even now, your
ship would be taken from you were it not that Tararo has some feeling of
gratitude toward you.  But I know Tararo well.  He is a man of falsehood,
as all the unconverted savages are.  The chief to whom he has promised
this girl is very powerful, and Tararo _must_ fulfil his promise.  He has
told you that he would do nothing to the girl for three days; but that is
because the party who are to take her away will not be ready to start for
three days.  Still, as he might have made you a prisoner during those
three days, I say that God has given them to us
Well, but what do you propose to do
My plan involves much danger, but I see no other, and I think you have
courage to brave it.  It is this: There is an island about fifty miles to
the south of this, the natives of which are Christians, and have been so
for two years or more, and the principal chief is Avatea's lover.  Once
there, Avatea would be safe.  Now, I suggest that you should abandon your
schooner.  Do you think that you can make so great a sacrifice
Friend
when I make up my mind to go through with a
thing of importance, I can make any sacrifice
Well, then, the savages could not conceive it
possible that, for the sake of a girl, you would voluntarily lose your
fine vessel; therefore as long as she lies here they think they have you
all safe: so I suggest that we get a quantity of stores conveyed to a
sequestered part of the shore, provide a small canoe, put Avatea on
board, and you three would paddle to the Christian island
Bravo
Missionary, you're a regular brick.  I didn't think you had so much in
you
As for me
I will remain on board till they
discover that you are gone.  Then they will ask me where you are gone to,
and I will refuse to tell
And what'll be the result of that
I know not.  Perhaps they will kill me; but
I too am not afraid to die in a good cause
But how are we to get hold of Avatea
I have arranged with her to meet us at a particular spot, to which I
will guide you to-night.  We shall then arrange about it.  She will
easily manage to elude her keepers, who are not very strict in watching
her, thinking it impossible that she could escape from the island.
Indeed, I am sure that such an idea will never enter their heads.  But,
as I have said, you run great danger.  Fifty miles in a small canoe, on
the open sea, is a great voyage to make.  You may miss the island, too,
in which case there is no other in that direction for a hundred miles or
more; and if you lose your way and fall among other heathens, you know
the law of Feejee -- a cast-away who gains the shore is doomed to die.  You
must count the cost, my young friend
I have counted it
If Avatea consents to run the risk,
most certainly I will; and so will my comrades also.  Besides
your Bible,-- _our_
Bible, tells of ONE who delivers those who call on Him in the time of
trouble; who holds the winds in his fists and the waters in the hollow of
his hand
Ah! here you are
Now, then, tell
her what we've come about, and don't waste time
I understan' leetl English
Why, where did you pick up English
you
were dumb as a stone when I saw you last
She has learned all she knows of it from me
since
she came to the island
Then you're willing to go with us, are you
Yis, I am willing to go
And you're not afraid to trust yourself out on the deep sea so far
No, I not 'fraid to go.  Safe with Christian
Ha
is that
you, Avatea
Yis, it am me
All right!  Now, then, gently.  Help me to shove off the canoe
and Peterkin, do you shove these blankets
aboard, we may want them before long.  Avatea, step into the
middle;-- that's right
Is all ready
Not quite
Here, Ralph, lay hold o' this pair of
oars, and stow them away if you can.  I don't like paddles.  After we're
safe away I'll try to rig up rollicks for them
Now, then, in with you and shove off
There
we've put a
considerable breadth of water between us and these black rascals, so now
we'll have a hearty supper and a sound sleep
Hear, hear
Nobly spoken, Jack.  Hand me a drop
water, Ralph.  Why, girl what's wrong with you?  You look just like a
black owl blinking in the sunshine
I sleepy
That's uncommon sharp practice
Don't you think we should awake her to make her eat something first? or,
perhaps
perhaps we might put
some food in her mouth, which is so elegantly open at the present moment,
and see if she'd swallow it while asleep.  If so, Ralph, you might come
round to the front here and feed her quietly, while Jack and I are
tucking into the victuals.  It would be a monstrous economy of time
Down the wrong throat, man! why, a fellow with half an eye might see
that if it went down Avatea's throat it could not go down the wrong
throat!-- unless, indeed, you have all of a sudden become inordinately
selfish, and think that all the throats in the world are wrong ones
except your own.  However, don't talk so much, and hand me the pork
before Jack finishes it.  I feel myself entitled to at least one minute
morsel
Peterkin, you're a villain.  A paltry little villain
and I must again express my regret that unavoidable
circumstances have thrust your society upon me, and that necessity has
compelled me to cultivate your acquaintance.  Were it not that you are
incapable of walking upon the water, I would order you, sir, out of the
canoe
There! you've wakened Avatea with your long tongue
No
it was only a snore.  Perchance she dreameth of her black Apollo.  I
say, Ralph, do leave just one little slice of that yam.  Between you and
Jack I run a chance of being put on short allowance, if not -- yei -- a -- a -- ow
What's wrong
give way
I see something like land ahead
It
seems impossible that we could have made the island yet; still, if it is
so, we may reach it before these fellows can catch us, for our canoe is
light and our muscles are fresh
How comes it
that these youths
have abused our hospitality
Tell him
that we have not abused his hospitality, for
his hospitality has not been extended to us.  I came to the island to
deliver Avatea, and my only regret is that I have failed to do so.  If I
get another chance, I will try to save her yet
Nay, my young friend, I had better not tell
him that.  It will only incense him
Fear not
If you don't tell him that, you'll tell him
nothing, for I won't say anything softer
Go
presumptuous boy.  My debt to you is cancelled.  You and
your companions shall die
Alas! dear Jack and
Peterkin
what is to become of us?  I fear that we are doomed
to die
I know not
I know not; Ralph, I
regret deeply the hastiness of my violent temper, which, I must confess,
has been the chief cause of our being brought to this sad condition.
Perhaps the teacher may do something for us.  But I have little hope
Ah! no
I am sure he can't help us.
Tararo doesn't care more for him than for one of his dogs
Truly
there seems no chance of deliverance, unless the
Almighty puts forth his arm to save us.  Yet I must say that I have great
hope, my comrades, for we have come to this dark place by no fault of
ours -- unless it be a fault to try to succour a woman in distress
Thank the Lord
I am in time!  Now, seek
the shelter of the nearest rock
Well, Ralph, how have you slept
Were you much disturbed by
the wind last night
No
I dreamed of home all night, and I thought that my mother
smiled upon me, and beckoned me to go to her; but I could not, for I was
chained
And I dreamed, too
but it was of our happy home on the
Coral Island.  I thought we were swimming in the Water Garden; then the
savages gave a yell, and we were immediately in the cave at Spouting
Cliff, which, somehow or other, changed into this gloomy cavern; and I
awoke to find it true
Oh, I wonder if we shall ever see our dear
island more
Oh! my dear young friend, through the great goodness of God you are
free
Free
Ay, free
free to go and come as you will.  The Lord has unloosed the
bands of the captive and set the prisoners free.  A missionary has been
sent to us, and Tararo has embraced the Christian religion!  The people
are even now burning their gods of wood!  Come, my dear friends, and see
the glorious sight
I am overjoyed to meet you, my dear young friends
My
friend, and your friend, the teacher, has told me your history; and I
thank our Father in heaven, with all my heart, that he has guided me to
this island, and made me the instrument of saving you
I will tell you that at a more convenient time
meanwhile
we must not forget the respect due to the chief.  He waits to receive
you
And what of Avatea
That youth is her lover.  He came this very morning in his war-canoe to
treat with Tararo for Avatea.  He is to be married in a few days, and
afterwards returns to his island home with his bride
That's capital
I wish you joy, my lad;-- and you too,
Avatea
Young friend, you have seen few years, but your head is old.  Your heart
also is large and very brave.  I and Avatea are your debtors, and we
wish, in the midst of this assembly, to acknowledge our debt, and to say
that it is one which we can never repay.  You have risked your life for
one who was known to you only for a few days.  But she was a woman in
distress, and that was enough to secure to her the aid of a Christian
man.  We, who live in these islands of the sea, know that the true
Christians always act thus.  Their religion is one of love and kindness.
We thank God that so many Christians have been sent here -- we hope many
more will come.  Remember that I and Avatea will think of you and pray
for you and your brave comrades when you are far away
Now, then, Ralph and Peterkin
it seems to me that the object we came here for having been
satisfactorily accomplished, we have nothing more to do but get ready for
sea as fast as we can, and hurrah for dear old England
That's my idea precisely
however, I'm not going away till I see these fellows burn their gods
Farewell
Good-bye
homeward
bound
</text>
