<text>
four times one is four
four times seven is fifty-six
Go, child
O Hugh
What
do you think?-- But is the parlour-door shut?  Who shut it
Mother bade me shut it, as I passed
O dear
then she did not
mean us to hear what they were talking about
What was it?  Anything about the Crofton boys?  Anything about Phil
I cannot tell you a word about it.  Mamma did not know I heard them.
How plain anyone can hear what they say in that parlour, Hugh, when the
door is open!  What do you think I heard mamma tell Mrs Bicknor, last
week, when I was jumping Harry off the third stair
Never mind that.  Tell me what they are talking about now.  Do, Agnes
Now do, dear
dear
I should like to tell you every word; but I cannot now.  Mamma has made
you shut the door.  She does not wish you to hear it
Me!  Then will you tell Jane
Yes.  I shall tell Jane, when we are with mamma at work
That is too bad
What does Jane care about Crofton and the boys to what I do
There is one boy there that Jane cares about more than you do, or I, or
anybody, except papa and mamma.  Jane loves Phil
O, then, what they are saying in the parlour is about Phil
I did not say that
You pretend you love me as Jane loves Phil!  And now you are going to
tell her what you won't tell me!  Agnes, I will tell you everything I
know all my whole life, if you will just whisper this now.  Only just
whisper.-- Or, I will tell you what.  I will guess and guess; and you can
nod or shake your head.  That won't be telling
For shame, Hugh!  Phil would laugh at you for being a girl if you are
so curious.  What mamma told Mrs Bicknor was that Jane was her
right-hand.  What do you think that meant exactly
That Jane might give you a good slap when you are so provoking
There is something that I can tell you, Hugh; something that I want to
tell you, and nobody else
Well, come, what is it
You must promise beforehand not to be angry
Angry!  When am I angry, pray?  Come, tell me
You must -- you really must -- I have a particular reason for saying so --
you must learn how much four times seven is.  Now, remember, you
promised not to be angry
Well, then, how much is it
Twenty-eight, to be sure.  Who does not know that
Then pray do not call it fifty-six any more.  Miss Harold
There's the thing
When Miss Harold is here, I can think
of nothing but fifty-six.  It seems to sound in my ears, as if somebody
spoke it, &bquo;four times seven is fifty-six
You will make me get it by heart too, if you say it so often
You had better say &bquo;twenty-eight' over to yourself all day
long.  You may say it to me as often as you like.  I shall not get
tired.  Come, begin now --&bquo;four times seven
I have had enough of that for to-day -- tiresome stuff!  Now, I shall go
and play with Harry again
But wait -- just say that line once over, Hugh.  I have a reason for
wishing it.  I have, indeed
Mother has been telling Mr Tooke that I cannot say my
multiplication-table!  Now, that is too bad
And they
will make me say it after dinner!  What a shame
Why Hugh!  You know mamma does not like -- you know mamma would not -- you
know mamma never does anything unkind.  You should not say such things,
Hugh
Ay, there!  You cannot say that she has not told Mr Tooke that I say
my tables wrong
Well -- you know you always do say it wrong to her
I will go somewhere.  I will hide myself.  I will run to the market
while the cloth is laying.  I will get away, and not come back till Mr
Tooke is gone.  I will never say my multiplication table to him
Never
However, do not
talk of running away, or hiding yourself.  You will not have to say
anything to Mr Tooke to-day
How do you know
I feel sure you will not.  I do not believe Mr Tooke will talk to you,
or to any of us.  There you go!  You will be in the water-butt in a
minute, if you tumble so
I don't care if I am.  Mr Tooke will not come there to hear me say my
tables.  Let me go
If I do tumble in, the water is not up to my chin, and
it will be a cool hiding-place this hot day
But there is Susan gone to lay the cloth; and you must be brushed; for
you are all over dust.  Come up, and I will brush you
There!  What will Jane say
There never was anything like boys for mischief
Let that alone
I will have the top off this afternoon, and it will
make good fishing for Harry and me
Eh
Then you can get Mr Tooke to tell you about Phil, if you want nothing
else
And did you say
that your youngest pupil is
nine
Just nine;-- the age of my own boy.  I could have wished to have none
under ten, for the reason you know of.  But
I wish
I wish you would take boys at eight and
a quarter
That is your age
How did you know?  Mother told you
No; indeed she did not,-- not exactly.  My boy was eight and a quarter
not very long ago; and he
Did he like being in your school
He always seemed very happy there, though he was so much the youngest.
And they teased him sometimes for being the youngest.  Now you know, if
you came, you would be the youngest, and they might tease you for it
I don't think I should mind that.  What sort of teasing, though
Trying whether he was afraid of things
What sort of things
Being on the top of a wall, or up in a tree.  And then they sent him
errands when he was tired, or when he wanted to be doing something else.
They tried too whether he could bear some rough things without
telling
And did he
Yes, generally.  On the whole, very well.  I see they think him a brave
boy now
I think I could.  But do not you really take boys as young as I am
Such is really my rule
Constantinople
Come, children
we have all done
enough for to-day.  Away with books and slates
But, papa
Hugh has not quite done.  If he might have
just five minutes more, Miss Harold
Never mind what Miss Harold says!  That is, you girls must; but between
this and Michaelmas
Constantinople
Oh, mother!  Mother
you give me up!  What
shall I do if you will not help me any more
There
Keep him fast, Hugh, till the passage-door is shut.
What shall we do with the rogue when you are at Crofton, I wonder
Why, papa!  He will be big enough to take care of himself by that
time
Bless me!  I forgot again
He is thinking how much four times seven is
I tell you what, Hugh
if the Crofton people do
not teach you how much four times seven is when you come within four
weeks of next Christmas-day, I shall give you up, and them too, for
dunces all
There now
I have let the cat out of the bag.  Look at
Agnes
Agnes has taken more pains to keep the secret than her papa
The secret is, that Hugh is going to Crofton next month
Am I ten, then
Scarcely; since you were only eight and a quarter yesterday afternoon
I will tell you all about it by-and-by, my dear
Well, Hugh
I have not learned quite down to &bquo;Constantinople
Papa
told me I need not, and not to mind you
Why, Hugh!  Hush
He did,-- he said exactly that.  But he meant, Miss Harold, that I am to
be a Crofton boy,-- directly, next month
Then have we done with one another, Hugh
Will you not learn any more from me
That is for your choice, Miss Harold
Hugh
has not deserved the pains you have taken with him: and if you decline
more trouble with him now he is going into other hands, no one can
wonder
It is on account of the little boys themselves
that Mr
Tooke does not wish to have them very young, now that there is no kind
lady in the house who could be like a mother to them
But there is Mrs Watson.  Phil has told me a hundred things about Mrs
Watson
Mrs Watson is the housekeeper.  She is careful, I know, about the
boys' health and comfort; but she has no time to attend to the younger
ones, as Mrs Tooke did,-- hearing their little troubles, and being a
friend to them like their mothers at home
There is Phil
Yes.  You will have Phil to look to.  But neither Phil, nor any one
else, can save you from some troubles you are likely to have from being
the youngest
Such as Mr Tooke told me his boy had;-- being put on the top of a high
wall, and plagued when he was tired: and all that.  I don't think I
should much mind those things
So we hope, and so we believe.  Your fault is not cowardice
You have faults,-- faults which give your father and me great pain; and
though you are not cowardly about being hurt in your body, you sadly
want courage of a better kind,-- courage to mend the weakness of your
mind.  You are so young that we are sorry for you, and mean to send you
where the example of other boys may give you the resolution you want so
much
All the boys learn their lessons at Crofton
Yes; but not by magic.  They have to give their minds to their work.
You will find it painful and difficult to learn this, after your idle
habits at home.  I give you warning that you will find it much more
difficult than you suppose; and I should not wonder if you wish yourself
at home with Miss Harold many times before Christmas
If you can bring yourself to learn your lessons well
you need not fear the usher.  But remember it depends upon that.  You
will do well enough in the playground, I have no doubt
You know, my dear
that I do not approve of dwelling upon
troubles.  You know I never encourage my children to fret about what
cannot be helped
And yet I tell you
that you will not be nearly so
happy at Crofton as you expect -- at least, at first.  It grieves me to
see you so full of expectation
Does it indeed, mother
It does indeed.  But my comfort is
You think I can bear it
You think
I can bear anything
I think you are a brave boy, on the whole.  But that is not the comfort
I was speaking of; for there is a world of troubles too heavy for the
bravery of a thoughtless child, like you.  My comfort is, my dear, that
you know where to go for strength when your heart fails you.  You will
be away from your father and me; but a far wiser and kinder parent will
be always with you.  If I were not sure that you would continually open
your heart to Him, I could not let you go from me
I will -- I always do
Then remember this,
my boy.  If you have that help, _you must not fail_.  Knowing that you
have that help, I expect of you that you do your own duty, and bear your
own troubles, like a man.  If you were to be all alone in the new world
you are going to, you would be but a helpless child: but remember, when
a child makes God his friend, God puts into the youngest and weakest the
spirit of a man
You will ask Him too, mother;-- you will pray Him to make me brave,
and -- and
And what else
And steady
for that is what I
want most of all
It is
I do, and always will, pray for you
Lunch
Do eat it
You had no breakfast, you know
Because I did not want it; and I can't eat anything now
Jane
if you are not mending that glove,
give it to me.  It is getting late
Now, my boy, up with you
I say, Hugh,-- can you tell me,-- how much is four times seven
There is some joke in that last remark, I imagine
There was some joke, I fancy, in that last remark of your father's
Yes
Are you in the habit of saying the multiplication-table when you
travel
If so, we shall be happy to hear it
Exceedingly happy
I never say it when I can help it
and I see no occasion
now
To Crofton.  I am going to be a Crofton boy
A what?  Where is he going
Eight-and-twenty
and Crofton is two miles
from my uncle's
Eight-and-twenty.  The father's joke lies there
No, it does not
Ay!  And how do the Crofton boys take care of their money
Why, there's Phil
This is Shaw's mill, and there is Shaw; which is all I have to do
with
I say, young master
remember the coachman.  Where's
your sixpence
Oh, my sixpence
Lest you find a hole in your pocket, here is a sixpence for you
Thank you for
teaching us the secret of such a curious pocket
A pretty story this is for our usher to have against you, to begin
with
Every boy will know it before you show
yourself; and you will never hear the last of it, I can tell you
Your usher
Yes, our usher.  That was he on the box, beside coachee.  Did not you
find out that much in all these eight-and-twenty miles
How should I?  He never told me
I hope you will find time to help Hugh up from the bottom, in a class
or two
You will not be too busy about your own
affairs to look to his, I suppose
Where is the use of my meddling
He can't rise for years
to come.  Besides
Why can't I rise
That is right, Hugh
Let nobody prophesy for you
till you show what you can do
Why, uncle, he is nearly two years younger than any boy in the school;
and
And there is little Page above you in algebra.  He is about two years
younger than you, Phil, if I remember right
True!-- quite true!  I am very glad you know that, my boy.  That will
help you to learn at Crofton, though it is better than anything they can
teach you in their school-room
I say; hollo there
Is that Prater you have got with
you
Prater the second
He could not have had his name if
there had not been Prater the first
There!  There's a scrape you have got me into already
Be a man, Phil, and bear your own share
and no spite,
because your words come back to you
Prater
What a name
Yes; that is you
You know now what your nick-name
will be.  Every boy has one or another: and yours might have been worse,
because you might have done many a worse thing to earn it
But the usher, uncle
What of him
He should not have told about me
Don't call him &bquo;Prater the third,' however.  Bear your own share, as I
said to Phil, and don't meddle with another's
Dear me
we
must have something different from this.  These collars tied with a
black ribbon are never tidy.  They are always over one shoulder or the
other
My sisters made them; and they worked so hard to get them done
Very well -- very right: only it is a pity they are not of a better make.
Every Sunday at church, I shall see your collar awry -- and every time
you go to your aunt's, she will think we do not make you neat.  I must
see about that.  Here are good stockings, however -- properly stout.  My
dear, are these all the shoes you have got
I have a pair on
Of course; I don't doubt that.  We must have you measured to-morrow for
some boots fitter for the country than these.  We have no London
pavement here
Perhaps, Mr Carnaby
you will find something for
this young gentleman to do, when he has had his supper, while the rest
are learning their lessons.  To-morrow he will have his own lessons; but
to-night
There is always the multiplication-table
The
young gentleman is partial to that, I fancy
Never mind a joke
We won't plague you with
the multiplication-table the first evening.  I will find you a book or
something.  Meantime, there is a companion for you -- I forgot that
Prater the second
Who prated, of Prater the second?  Who is Prater the third
O, don't, sir!  Don't hurt him so
Do you call that hurting?  You will soon find what hurting is, when you
become acquainted with our birch.  You shall have four times seven with
our birch -- Let us see,-- that is your favourite number, I think
You see I have your secret;-- four times seven
What do you shake your head for
Because you have not my secret about four times seven
Did not I hear your father?  Eh
What did you hear my father say?  Nobody here knows what he meant?  And
nobody need know, unless I choose to tell -- which I don't.-- Please don't
teaze Phil about it, sir: for he knows no more about it than you do
O God, I am all alone here, where nobody knows me; and everything is
very strange and uncomfortable.  Please, make people kind to me till I
am used to them; and keep up a brave heart in me, if they are not.  Help
me not to mind little things; but to do my lessons well, that I may get
to like being a Crofton boy, as I thought I should.  I love them all at
home very much,-- better than I ever did before.  Make them love me, and
think of me every day,-- particularly Agnes,-- that they may be as glad as
I shall be when I go home at Christmas
O Phil
I
meant to keep awake, to ask you to be sure and call me in the morning,
time enough,-- quite time enough, please
But I might not hear it
Not hear it?  You'll soon see that
Well, but you will see that I really do wake, won't you
The bell will take care of that, I tell you
Dirty
Dirty for washing my feet!
Mother says it is a dirty trick not to wash all over every day
There will be prayers in the school-room.  You must be in time for
them
You had better come with me
Do wait one moment, while I just comb my hair
Sal, Sol, Ren et Splen
Sit!  O!  I suppose you must have a desk, though you have nothing to
put in it.  If there is a spare desk, you shall have it: if not, we will
find a corner for you somewhere
Out!  Out
Have you a mind to come up
Yes, sir, I should like to try and climb a tree.  I never did
Well, this is a good one to begin with.  I'll lend you a hand; shall
I
Thank you, sir
Don't call me, &bquo;sir.'  I'm only a schoolboy, like you.  I am Dan Firth.
Call me Firth, as I am the only one of the name here.  You are little
Proctor, I think -- Proctor's brother
Yes: but, Firth, I shall pull you down, if I slip
Not you: but I'll come down, and so send you up to my seat, which is
the safest to begin with.  Stand off
Did anybody teach you
Yes; my father taught me to climb, when I was younger than you
And had you anybody to teach you games and things, when you came here
No: but I had learned a good deal of that before I came; and so I soon
fell into the ways here.  Have you anybody to teach you
No -- yes -- why, no.  I thought Phil would have showed me things; but he
does not seem to mind me at all
Ah!  He attends to you more than you think
Does he?  Then why -- but what good does it do me
What good?  His holding off makes you push your own way.  It lets you
make friends for yourself
I have no friends here
Yes, you have.  Here am I.  You would not have had me, if you had been
at Proctor's heels at this moment
Will you be my friend, then
That I will
What, a great boy like you, that sits reading in a tree!  But I may
read here beside you.  You said there was room for two
Ay; but you must not use it yet,-- at least, not often, if you wish to
do well here.  Everybody knows I can play at anything.  From the time I
became captain of the wall at fives, I have had liberty to do what I
like, without question.  But you must show that you are up to play,
before they will let you read in peace and quiet
But how can I, if -- if
Once show your spirit,-- prove that you can shift for yourself, and you
will find Phil open out wonderfully.  He and you will forget all his
shyness then.  Once show him that he need not be ashamed of you
Ashamed of me
Yes.  Little boys are looked upon as girls in a school till they show
that they are little men.  And then again, you have been brought up with
girls,-- have not you
To be sure; and so was he
And half the boys here, I dare say.  Well, they are called Bettys
till
I am not a Betty
They suppose you are, because you part your hair, and do as you have
been used to do at home
What business have they with my hair?  I might as well call them Bruins
for wearing theirs shaggy
Very true.  They will let you and your hair alone when they see what
you are made of; and then Phil will
He will own me when I don't want it; and now, when he might help me,
there he is, far off, never caring about what becomes of me
O yes, he does.  He is watching you all the time.  You and he will have
it all out some day before Christmas, and then you will see how he
really cares about you.  Really your hair is very long,-- too like a
girl's.  Shall I cut it for you
I should like it
but I don't want the boys to think I am
afraid of them; or to begin giving up to them
You are right there.  We will let it alone now, and cut it when it
suits our convenience
What a nice place this is, to be sure
But the rooks do not make so much noise as I
expected
You will find what they can do in that way when spring comes,-- when
they are building
And when may we go out upon the heath, and into the fields where the
lambs are
We go long walks on Saturday afternoons; but you do not expect to see
young lambs in October, do you
O, I forgot I never can remember the seasons for things
That shows you are a Londoner.  You will learn all those things here.
If you look for hares in our walks, you may chance to see one; or you
may start a pheasant; but take care you don't mention lambs, or
goslings, or cowslips, or any spring things; or you will never hear the
last of it
Thank you: but what will poor Holt do?  He is from India, and he knows
very little about our ways
They may laugh at him; but they will not despise him as they might a
Londoner.  Being an Indian, and being a Londoner, are very different
things
And yet how proud the Londoners are over the country!  It is very odd
People are proud of their own ways all the world over.  You will be
proud of being a Crofton boy, by-and-by
Perhaps I am now, a little
What, already?  Ah!  You will do, I see.  I have known old people proud
of their age, and young people of their youth.  I have seen poor people
proud of their poverty; and everybody has seen rich people proud of
their wealth.  I have seen happy people proud of their prosperity, and
the afflicted proud of their afflictions.  Yes; people can always manage
to be proud: so you have boasted of being a Londoner up to this time;
and from this time you will hold your head high as a Crofton boy
How long?  Till when
Ah!  Till when?  What next!  What do you mean to be afterwards
A soldier, or a sailor, or a great traveller, or something of that
kind.  I mean to go quite round the world, like Captain Cook
Then you will come home, proud of having been round the world; and you
will meet with some old neighbour who boasts of having spent all his
life in the house he was born in
Old Mr Dixon told mother that of himself, very lately.  Oh dear, how
often does the postman come
You want a letter from home, do you?  But you left them only yesterday
morning
I don't know how to believe that,-- it seems such an immense time!  But
when does the postman come
Any day when he has letters to bring,-- at about four in the afternoon.
We see him come, from the school-room; but we do not know who the
letters are for till school breaks up at five
O dear
What is the matter there
O dear!  Something very
terrible must have happened.  How that boy is screaming
It is only Lamb again
You will soon get used to his
screaming.  He is a very passionate boy -- I never saw such a passionate
fellow
But what are they doing to him
Somebody is putting him into a passion, I suppose.  There is always
somebody to do that
What a shame
Yes: I see no wit in it
Anybody may do it.  You have
only to hold your little finger up to put him in a rage
That is too bad
That would madden a saint
I am your friend
There stands your defender, Lamb
thinking he never saw a
boy in a passion before.  Come, have done with it for his sake: be a
man, as he is.  Here, help me to fill up this hole -- both of you.  Stamp
down the earth, Lamb.  Tread it well -- tread your anger well down into
it.  Think of this little friend of yours here -- a Crofton boy only
yesterday
I don't know what made you help me, but I will never be in a passion
with you;-- unless you put me out, that is
drunk old Tom
Don't say any more that you have no friends here.  You have me for one;
and you might have had another -- two in one morning -- but for your plain
speaking about drunk old Tom
Did I say any harm
No -- no harm
You will do, my boy -- when you
have got through a few scrapes.  I'm your friend, at any rate
Proceed, gentlemen
Hold your
din
I declare I can't learn my lesson --'tis too bad
'Tis a shame
We shall never be ready
We wont look at them
Let us cover our eyes, and not
look up at all
O!  Holt!  You have been telling tales
Telling tales
I never thought of that.  They asked me to tell Mr
Carnaby that we could not learn our lessons
They!  Who?  I am sure I never asked you
No; you did not: but Harvey and Prince did,-- and Gillingham.  They said
Mr Carnaby would soon make those fellows quiet; and they told me to
go
You hear!  They are calling you &bquo;tell-tale.'  That will be your name
now.  Oh, Holt!  You should not have told tales.  However, I will stand
by you
I meant no harm
Was not it a shame that they
would not let us learn our lessons
Yes, it was -- but
Mr Tooke, sir
Well
Please, sir
I saw little Proctor throw a sponge at
Tooke.  He did it twice
Never mind
I threw it at him first.  It is my
sponge
And Warner
considering that Warner has got off too easily for many
pranks of late,-- Warner seventy
Pray, sir
Not a word of intercession for those boys
I will
not hear a word in their favour
Then, sir
Well
I only want to say, then, that Proctor told no tales, sir.  I did not
mean any harm, sir, but I told because
Never mind that
I have nothing to do with that.  That is your affair
tell-tale
You had better say so
and then they will see that you
had never been at school, and did not know how to manage
What do they mean by that
Dale has a sister at a school not far off, and her name is Amelia; and
she came to see him to-day.  Ah!  You have not found out yet that boys
are laughed at about their sisters, particularly if the girls have fine
names
What a shame
I
have two sisters, and one of them is called Agnes
Don't let them come to see you, then, or these fellows will quiz you as
they do me.  As if I could help having a sister Amelia
Why, you are not sorry for that?  You would not wish your sister dead,
or not born, would you
No; but I wish she was not hereabouts: that is, I wish she had not come
up to the pales, with the maid-servant behind her, for everybody to see.
And then, when Mr Tooke sent us into the orchard together, some spies
were peeping over the wall at us all the time
I only wish Agnes would come
and I would
Ah!  You think so now; but depend upon it, you would like much better
to see her at home.  Why, her name is finer than my sister's!  I wonder
what girls ever have such names for
I don't see that these names are finer than some boys' names.  There's
Frazer, is not his name Colin?  And then there's Hercules Fisticuff
Why, you know -- to be sure you know that is a nick-name
Is it?  I never thought of that
What is his real
name
Samuel Jones.  However, there is Colin Frazer -- and Fry, his name is
Augustus Adolphus; I will play them off the next time they quiz Amelia.
How old is your sister Agnes
Ay, get a switch,-- a bunch of furze will do, and we will be
rid of the noisy things
Now we are here
I will show you a nice place,-- a place
where we can get something nice.  How thirsty I am
And so am I
Well, then, come along with me, and I will show you
But may we
To be sure; who is to prevent us?  You shall see how you like
ginger-beer when you are thirsty
Come, Proctor, you have half-a-crown
Out with it
My half-crown
You did not say I had anything to
pay
As if you did not know that, without my telling you!  You don't think
people give away their good things, I suppose!  Come,-- where's your
half-crown?  My money is all at home
But
the only thing we had to do with each other before
was by my being kind to him
That makes no difference
But what a bad boy he must be!  To be sure, he will pay me, when he
knows how much I want a comb
He will tell you to buy it out of your five shillings.  You let him
know you had five shillings in Mrs Watson's hands
Yes; but he knows how I mean to spend that,-- for presents to carry home
at Christmas.  But I'll never tell him anything again.  Oh!  Dale!  Do
you really think he will never pay me
He never pays anybody; that is all I know.  Come,-- forget it all, as
fast as you can.  Let us go and see if we can get any nuts
To make them
remember
It is not that
I have broken my cane; so bring me a stout switch
Bring me
one out of the orchard; one that will lay on well -- one that will not
break with a good hard stroke;-- mind what I say -- one that will not
break
Yes, sir
This won't break, I think, sir
Bring me a _switch_
One that is not too stout, or else it
will not sting.  It must sting, remember,-- sting well.  Not too stout,
remember
Yes, sir
I think this will not be too stout, sir
Are these boys not caned yet, Mr Carnaby
No, sir:-- I have not -- I
Have they been standing here all this while
Yes, sir.  I have no cane, sir.  I have been sending
I ordered them an immediate caning, Mr Carnaby, and not mental
torture.  School is up
You may
go -- you have been punished enough
Mr
Carnaby, have the goodness to remain a moment
The usher will catch it now
He will get well paid for his spite
What will be done to him
Oh, I don't know; and I don't care -- though he was just going to give my
head some sound raps against the wall, if Mr Tooke had not come up at
the moment
But what _will_ be done to Mr Carnaby
Never mind what: he won't be here long, they say.  Fisher says there is
another coming; and Carnaby is here only till that other is at liberty
Is he going?  Gone for good
Gone for good
What do you come here for?  This is no place for you
I only want to tell you one thing
No.  I don't want to amuse myself
Why, what's the matter?  Did you not come off well with your theme?  I
heard somebody say you were quite enough set up about it
Where is the use of doing a thing well, if nobody cares about it
I don't believe anybody at Crofton cares a bit about me -- cares
whether I get on well or ill -- except Dale.  If I take pains and succeed,
they only laugh at me
Ah!  You don't understand school and schoolboys yet
To do a difficult lesson well is a grand affair at home, and the whole
house knows of it.  But it is the commonest thing in the world here.  If
you learn to feel with these boys, instead of expecting them to feel
with you (which they cannot possibly do), you will soon find that they
care for you accordingly
You will find it in every school in England
that it
is not the way of boys to talk about feelings -- about anybody's feelings.
That is the reason why they do not mention their sisters or their
mothers -- except when two confidential friends are together, in a tree,
or by themselves in the meadows.  But, as sure as ever a boy is full of
action -- if he tops the rest at play -- holds his tongue, or helps others
generously -- or shows a manly spirit without being proud of it, the whole
school is his friend.  You have done well, so far, by growing more and
more sociable; but you will lose ground if you boast about your lessons
out of school.  To prosper at Crofton, you must put off home, and make
yourself a Crofton boy
I don't care about that
I give it all up.  There is
nothing but injustice here
Nothing but injustice!  Pray, am I unjust
No -- not you -- not so far.  But
Is Mr Tooke unjust
Yes -- very
Pray how, and when
He has been so unjust to me, that if it had not been for something, I
could not have borne it.  I am not going to tell you what that something
is: only you need not be afraid but that I can bear everything.  If the
whole world was against me
Well, never mind what that something is; but tell me how Mr Tooke is
unjust to you
He punished me when I did not deserve it; and he praised me when I did
not deserve it.  I was cheated and injured that Saturday; and, instead
of seeing me righted, Mr Tooke ordered me to be punished.  And to-day,
when my theme was so badly done that I made sure of being blamed, he
praised me
This might be injustice at home
because parents know,
or ought to know, all that is in their children's minds, and exactly
what their children can do.  A schoolmaster can judge only by what he
sees.  Mr Tooke does not know yet that you could have done your theme
better than you did -- as your mother would have known.  When he finds you
can do better, he will not praise such a theme again.  Meantime, how you
can boast of his praise, if you think it unjust, is the wonder to me
So it is to me now.  I wish I had never asked to do that theme at all
But why
did Mr Tooke order me to be caned?  Why did he not make Lamb and Holt
pay me what they owe?  I was injured before: and he injured me more
You were to be caned because you left the heath and entered a house
without leave -- not because you had been cheated of your money
But I did not know where I was going.  I never meant to enter a house
But you did both; and what you suffered will prevent your letting
yourself be led into such a scrape again.  As for the money part of the
matter -- a school is to boys what the world is when they become men.
They must manage their own affairs among themselves.  The difference is,
that here is the master to be applied to, if we choose.  He will advise
you about your money, if you choose to ask him: but, for my part, I
would rather put up with the loss, if I were you
Nobody will ever understand what I mean about justice
Suppose
while you are complaining of injustice in this
way, somebody else should be complaining in the same way of your
injustice
Nobody can -- fairly
Do you see that poor fellow, skulking there under the orchard-wall
What, Holt
Yes, Holt.  I fancy the thought in his mind at this moment is that you
are the most unjust person at Crofton
I!  Unjust
Yes; so he thinks.  When you first came, you and he were companions.
You found comfort in each other while all the rest were strangers to
you.  You were glad to hear, by the hour together, what he had to tell
you about India, and his voyages and travels.  Now he feels himself
lonely and forsaken, while he sees you happy with a friend.  He thinks
it hard that you should desert him because he owes you a shilling, when
he was cheated quite as much as you
Because he owes me a shilling
as
if
But it is so hard
And what do people leave home for but to learn hard lessons
But still, if it were not for
For what?  Do you see any comfort under it
That One understands us who cannot be unjust
I am
glad you feel that
Even home would be bad enough without that
And what
would school be
Or the world
But do not get cross, and complain again.
Leave that to those who have no comfort
When are you going to your uncle's
I suppose you _are_
going some day before Christmas
On Saturday, to stay till Sunday night
And Proctor goes too, I suppose
Yes; of course, Phil goes too
Anybody else
We are each to take one friend, just for Saturday, to come home at
night
Oh?  Then, you will take me.  You said you would
Did I?  That must have been a long time ago
But you did say so,-- that, whenever you went, you would ask leave to
take me
I don't remember any such thing.  And I am going to take Dale this
time.  I have promised him
I dare say!  And when will that be?  You know on Sunday it will want
only nineteen days to the holidays; and you will not be going to your
uncle's again this half-year.  A pretty way of putting me off
But Proctor has to take somebody
Yes; Phil takes Tooke.  They settled that a week ago
Oh!  Can't you ask him to take me
No; I shall not meddle with Phil.  Besides, I am glad he has chosen
Tooke.  Tooke behaved well to me about the sponge that day.  Tooke has
some spirit
Who was it that pulled you,-- that got the first hold of you?  Was it I?
O!  Say it was not I
It was you
But never mind!  You did not mean it
Don't you tell, and then nobody will know.  Mind you don't
Who did it, my dear boy
Never mind
To my bed
Who did it
Who pulled him down
He won't tell,-- noble fellow
Don't ask him.  Never ask
him who pulled him down
You will never repent it, my dear boy
Cry, my dear
if you want to cry.  Do not hide tears from
me
I can't help crying
but it is not the pain,-- not only
the pain; it is because you are so kind
Where _is_ Phil
He is so very unhappy, that we think he had better not see you till
this pain is over.  When you are asleep, perhaps
Oh!  When will that be
George rides fast; he is far on his way by this time
And one or other of the surgeons will soon be here; and they will tell
us what to do, and what to expect
Do tell Phil so,-- will you
Will the surgeon hurt me much, do you think
I will
bear it.  I only want to know
I should think you hardly could be in more pain than you are now
I trust they will relieve you of this pain.  I
should not wonder if you are asleep to-night as quietly as any of us;
and then you will not mind what they may have done to you
Which?  Who?  Who is crying
Poor Phil, and I do not know who else,-- not being acquainted with the
rest
How glad I am that Dale had nothing to do with it
He was
quite on the other side of the playground
They tell me below that I must not ask you how it happened
Oh, yes!  You may.  Everything except just who it was that pulled me
down.  So many got hold of me that nobody knows exactly who gave _the_
pull, except myself and one other.  He did not mean it; and I was cross
about playing with them; and the stone on the wall was loose or it would
not have happened.  O dear!  O dear!  Uncle, do you think it a bad
accident
Yes, my boy, a very bad accident
Do you think I shall die?  I never thought of that
No; I do not think you will die
Will they think so at home?  Was that the reason they were sent to
No: I have no doubt your mother will come to nurse you, and to comfort
you: but
To comfort me?  Why, Mr Tooke said the pain would soon be over, he
thought, and I should be asleep to-night
Yes; but though the pain may be over, it may leave you lame.  That will
be a misfortune; and you will be glad of your mother to comfort you
Lame
Oh!  Uncle, they are going to cut off my leg
Not your leg, I hope, Hugh.  You will not be quite so lame as that: but
I am afraid you must lose your foot
Was that what Mr Tooke meant by the surgeon's relieving me of my
pain
Yes, it was
Then it will be before night.  Is it quite certain, uncle
Mr Annanby thinks so.  Your foot is too much hurt ever to be cured.
Do you think you can bear it, Hugh
Why, yes, I suppose so.  So many people have.  It is less than some of
the savages bear.  What horrid things they do to their captives,-- and
even to some of their own boys!  And they bear it
Yes; but you are not a savage
But one may be as brave, without being a savage.  Think of the martyrs
that were burnt, and some that were worse than burnt!  And they bore
it
Mother!  Never mind, mother
I wish the surgeon had come first
and then they would
have had my foot off before you came.  When _will_ he come
He is here,-- they are both here
Oh, then, do make them make haste.  Mr Tooke says I shall go to sleep
afterwards.  You think so?  Then we will both go to sleep, and have our
talk in the morning.  Do not stay now,-- this pain is _so_ bad,-- I can't
bear it well at all.  Do go, now, and bid them make haste, will you
Don't let mother come
No, my boy, I will stay with you
Never mind, uncle!  I can bear it
I can't think how the Red Indians bear things so
Have you told mother
Yes; we sent to her directly
How long did it take
You have been out of bed only a few minutes -- seven or eight, perhaps
Oh, uncle, you don't mean really
Really: but we know they seemed like hours to you.  Now, your mother
will bring you some tea.  When you have had that, you will go to sleep:
so I shall wish you good-night now
When will you come again
Very often, till you come to me.  Not a word more now.  Good-night
I don't know what I have been about, I declare
But oh!  Mother, tell me,-- do tell me if I have let out who
pulled me off the wall
You have not,-- you have not indeed
I shall never ask.
I do not wish to know.  I am glad you have not told; for it would do no
good.  It was altogether an accident
So it was
and it would make the boy so unhappy to be
pointed at!  Do promise me, if I should let it out in my sleep, that you
will never, never tell anybody
I promise you.  And I shall be the only person beside you while you are
asleep, till you get well.  So you need not be afraid.-- Now, lie still
again
O, mother, if I am so lame, I can never be a soldier or a sailor.-- I
can never go round the world
Hugh, do you remember Richard Grant
What,-- the cabinet-maker?  The man who carved so beautifully
Yes.  Do you remember -- No, you could hardly have known: but I will tell
you.  He had planned a most beautiful set of carvings in wood for a
chapel belonging to a nobleman's mansion.  He was to be well paid,-- his
work was so superior; and he would be able to make his parents
comfortable, as well as his wife and children.  But the thing he most
cared for was the honour of producing a noble work which would outlive
him.  Well, at the very beginning of his task, his chisel flew up
against his wrist: and the narrow cut that it made,-- not more than half
an inch wide,-- made his right-hand entirely useless for life.  He could
never again hold a tool;-- his work was gone,-- his business in life
seemed over,-- the support of the whole family was taken away -- and the
only strong wish Richard Grant had in the world was disappointed
You have heard of Huber
The man who found out so much about bees.  Miss Harold read that
account to us
Bees and ants.  When Huber had discovered more than had ever been known
before about bees and ants, and when he was sure he could learn more
still, and was more and more anxious to peep and pry into their tiny
homes, and their curious ways, Huber became blind
Did you ever hear of Beethoven?  He was one of the greatest musical
composers that ever lived.  His great, his sole delight was in music.
It was the passion of his life.  When all his time and all his mind were
given to music, he became deaf -- perfectly deaf; so that he never more
heard one single note from the loudest orchestra.  While crowds were
moved and delighted with his compositions, it was all silence to him
Now, do you think
do you think that these people
were without a heavenly Parent
O no!  But were they all patient
Yes, in their different ways and degrees.  Would you say that they were
hardly treated?  Or would you rather suppose that their Father gave them
something more and better to do than they had planned for themselves
He must know best, of course: but it does seem hard that that very
thing should happen to them.  Huber would not have so much minded being
deaf, perhaps; or that musical man being blind; or Richard Grant losing
his foot, instead of his hand: for he did not want to go round the
world
No doubt their hearts often swelled within them at their
disappointments: but I fully believe that they found very soon that
God's will was wiser than their wishes.  They found, if they bore their
trial well, that there was work for their hearts to do, far nobler than
any work that the head can do through the eye, and the ear, and the
hand.  And they soon felt a new and delicious pleasure, which none but
the bitterly disappointed can feel
What is that
The pleasure of rousing their souls to bear pain, and of agreeing with
God silently, when nobody knows what is in their hearts.  There is a
great pleasure in the exercise of the body,-- in making the heart beat,
and the limbs glow, in a run by the sea-side, or a game in the
playground; but this is nothing to the pleasure there is in exercising
one's soul in bearing pain,-- in finding one's heart glow with the hope
that one is pleasing God
Shall I feel that pleasure
Often and often, I have no doubt,-- every time that you can willingly
give up your wish to be a soldier or a sailor,-- or anything else that
you have set your mind upon, if you can smile to yourself, and say that
you will be content at home.-- Well, I don't expect it of you yet.  I
dare say it was long a bitter thing to Beethoven to see hundreds of
people in raptures with his music, when he could not hear a note of it.
And Huber
But did Beethoven get to smile
If he did, he was happier than all the fine music in the world could
have made him
I wonder -- O!  I wonder if I ever shall feel so
We will pray to God that you may.  Shall we ask Him now
Now, my dear, you will sleep again
If you will lie down too, instead of sitting by the fire.  Do, mother
Your school-fellow is doing well
His brother
will tell you that he saw him quietly asleep; and I have just seen him
so.  He deserves to do well; for he is a brave little boy.  He is the
youngest of you; but I doubt whether there is a more manly heart among
you all
As to how this accident happened
I have only
to say this.  The coping-stone of the wall was loose,-- had become
loosened by the frost.  Of that I am aware.  But it would not,-- it could
not have fallen, if your school-fellow had not been pulled from the top
of the wall.  Several hands pulled him,-- as many as could get a hold.
Whose these hands were, it would be easy to ascertain; and it would not
be difficult to discover whose was the hand which first laid hold, and
gave the rest their grasp.  But
But your school-fellow considers the affair an
accident,-- says he himself was cross
No!  No!  We plagued him
Well!  He is sure no one meant him any harm, and earnestly desires that
no further inquiry may be made.  For his part, nothing, he declares,
shall ever induce him to tell who first seized him
I do not think that a promise of impunity can be any great comfort to
those concerned
but such comfort as they can
find in it, they may.  Both from my wish to indulge one who has just
sustained so great a misfortune, and because I think he is right, I
shall never inquire,-- never wish to know more than I do of the origin of
this accident.  His mother declares the same, on the part of both of his
parents.  I hope you will every one feel yourselves put upon honour, to
follow my example
The only thing you can now do for your school-fellow
is to be quiet throughout the day.  As soon as he can be
removed, he will be carried to Mr Shaw's.  Till then, you will take
care that he loses no rest through you,-- Now, first class, come up
Silence there
So you saw him!  Did you get a real good sight of him
Yes.  I stayed some time; half-an-hour, I dare say
What did he look like?  Did he say anything
Say anything
why, did you not hear he was asleep
What did he look like, then
He looked as he always does when he is asleep, as far as I could see.
But we did not bring the light too near, for fear of waking him
Did you hear -- did anybody tell you anything about it
Yes: my mother told me whatever I wanted to know
What?  What did she tell you
She says it will not be so very bad a lameness as it might have been --
as if he had not had his knee left.  That makes a great difference.
They make a false foot now, very light; and if his leg gets quite
properly well, and we are not too much in a hurry, and we all take pains
to help Hugh to practise walking carefully at first, he may not be very
lame
Oh!  Then, it is not so bad
Not so bad
Why, he will never be so strong -- so able
and active as other men.  He will never be able to take care of himself
and other people.  He will be so unlike other people always; and now,
while he is a boy, he will never
When will you see him again
To-day, if he is pretty well.  My mother promised me that
Do you think you could get leave for me too?  I would not make any
noise, nor let him talk too much, if I might just see him
I'll see about it
A quarter past ten!  Why, how odd!  The boys are half through school,
almost, and I am only just awake
They slept through the whole night, I dare say.  You were awake a good
many times; and you and I had some talk.  Do you remember that?  Or has
it gone out of your head with your sound sleep
No, no: I remember that
But it was the oddest, longest
night!-- and yesterday too!  To think that it is not a whole day yet
since it all happened!  Oh!  Here comes my breakfast.  What is it?
Coffee
Yes: we know you are fond of coffee; and so am I.  So we will have some
together
How comfortable
Are you there, Phil
Yes
how do you do this morning
Oh, very well.  Come here.  I want to know ever so many things.  Have
you heard yet anything real and true about the new usher
No
But I have no doubt it is really Mr Crabbe who is
coming, and that he will be here after Christmas.  Why, Hugh, you look
just the same as usual
So I am just the same, except under this thing
I am not hurt anywhere else, except this bruise
That's nothing
The other was, though, I can tell you
Was it very, very bad?  Worse than you had ever fancied
Oh!  Yes.  I could have screamed myself to death.  I did not, though.
Did you hear me, did anybody hear me call out
I heard you -- just outside the door there -- before the doctors came
Ah!  But not after, not while uncle was here.  He cried so!  I could
not call out while was he crying so.  Where were you when they were
doing it
Just outside the door there.  I heard you once -- only once; and that was
not much
But how came you to be there?  It was past bedtime.  Had you leave to
be up so late
I did not ask it; and nobody meddled with me
Was anybody there with you
Yes, Firth.  Dale would not.  He was afraid and he kept away
Oh!  Is not he very sorry
Of course.  Nobody can help being sorry
Do they all seem sorry?  What did they do?  What do they say
Oh!  They are very sorry; you must know that
Anybody more than the rest
Why some few of them cried; but I don't know that that shows them to be
more sorry.  It is some people's way to cry -- and others not
Do you know, Phil
you would hardly believe it, but I have
never been half so miserable as I was the first day or two I came here?
I don't care now, half so much, for all the pain, and for being lame,
and -- Oh!  But I can never be a soldier or a sailor -- I can never go round
the world!  I forgot that
Never mind
Here is a long
time before you; and you will get to like something else just as well.
Papa wanted to be a soldier, remember, and could not; and he is as happy
as ever he can be, now that he is a shop-keeper in London.  Did you ever
see anybody merrier than my father is?  I never did.  Come!  Cheer up,
Hugh!  You will be very happy somehow
Now I have a good mind to ask you
something that has been
in my mind ever since
Ever since when
Ever since I came to Crofton.  What could be the reason that you were
not more kind to me then
I!  Not kind
Was not I kind
No.  At least I thought not.  I was so uncomfortable,-- I did not know
anybody, or what to do; and I expected you would show me, and help me.
I always thought I could not have felt lonely with you here; and then
when I came, you got out of my way, as if you were ashamed of me, and
you did not help me at all; and you laughed at me
No; I don't think I did that
Yes, you did, indeed
Well, you know, little boys always have to shift for themselves when
they go to a great school
But why, if they have brothers there?  That is the very thing I want to
know.  I think it is very cruel
I never meant to be cruel, of course.  But -- but -- the boys were all
ready to laugh at me about a little brother that was scarcely any better
than a girl;-- and consider how you talked on the coach, and what
ridiculous hair you had,-- and what a fuss you made about your money and
your pocket,-- and how you kept popping out things about Miss Harold, and
the girls, and Susan
You _were_ ashamed of me, then
Well, what wonder if I was
And you never told me about all these things.  You let me learn them
all without any warning, or any help
To be sure.  That is the way all boys have to get on.  They must make
their own way
If ever little Harry comes to Crofton
I will not leave him in the lurch,-- I will never be ashamed of
him.  Pray
are you ashamed of me
still
Oh, no
You can shift for yourself,-- you can play,
and do everything like other boys, now.  You
Ah!  I see what you are thinking of
I am so afraid you
should be ashamed of me again, when I come into the playground.  The
boys will quiz me;-- and if you are ashamed of me
Oh, no, no
There is nobody in the world
that will quiz you;-- or, if there is, they had better take care of me, I
can tell them.  But nobody will.  You don't know how sorry the boys are.
Here comes Dale.  He will tell you the same thing
Why, Dale, how you have been crying
Is anything
wrong in school?  Can't you manage your verses yet
I'll try that to-night
Yes; I'll manage
them.  Never mind what made my eyes red; only, if such a thing had
happened to me, you would have cried,-- I am sure of that
Yes, indeed
Now, Proctor, you had better go
One at a time is enough
to-day; and I shall not stay long
Phil is so kind to-day
though he is
disappointed of going to uncle Shaw's on my account.  And I know he had
reckoned on it.  Now, I want to know one thing,-- where did Mr Tooke
sleep last night?  For this is his bed
Why, I never knew that
I suppose I was asleep.  Dale,
what do you think is the reason that our fathers and mothers and people
take care of us as they do
How do you mean
Why, Agnes and I cannot make it out.  When we were by the sea-side,
mother took us a great way along the beach, to a place we did not know
at all; and she bade us pick up shells, and amuse ourselves, while she
went to see a poor woman that lived just out of sight.  We played till
we were quite tired; and then we sat down; and still she did not come.
At last, we were sure that she had forgotten all about us; and we did
not think she would remember us any more: and we both cried.  Oh!  How
we did cry!  Then a woman came along, with a basket at her back, and a
great net over her arm: and she asked us what was the matter; and when
we told her, she said she thought it was not likely that mother would
forget us.  And then she bade us take hold of her gown, one on each
side, and she would try to take us to mother; and the next thing was
mother came in sight.  When the woman told her what we had said, they
both laughed; and mother told us it was impossible that she should leave
us behind.  I asked Agnes afterwards why it was impossible; and she did
not know; and I am sure she was as glad as I was to see mother come in
sight.  If she really never can forget us, what makes her remember us
Because
we can't do anything for anybody, and we
give a great deal of trouble.  Mother sits up very late, sometimes till
near twelve, mending our things.  There is that great basket of
stockings she has to mend, once a fortnight!  And papa works very hard
to get money; and what a quantity he pays for our schooling, and our
clothes, and everything
Everybody would think it very shameful if he did not
If he let you go ragged and ignorant, it would be wicked
But why
That is what I want to know.  We are
not worth anything.  We are nothing but trouble.  Only think what so
many people did yesterday!  My mother came a journey; and uncle and aunt
Shaw came: and mother sat up all night; and Mr Tooke never went to
bed,-- and all about me!  I declare I can't think why
Is it possible, my dear
that you did not know
this,-- you who love little Harry so much, and take such care of him at
home?  I am sure you never stopped to think whether Harry could do you
any service, before helping him to play
No; but then
But what
He is such a sweet little fellow, it is a treat to look at him.  Every
morning when I woke, I longed to be up, and to get to him
That is, you loved him.  Well: your papa and I love you all, in the
same way.  We get up with pleasure to our business -- your father to his
shop, and I to my work-basket -- because it is the greatest happiness in
the world to serve those we love
Susan and cook are far more useful to me than any of you children
and yet I could not work early and late for them,
with the same pleasure as for you
Perhaps she is
and the more she learns and does,
and the more she becomes my friend,-- the more I respect her: but it is
impossible to love her more than I did before she could speak or walk.
There is some objection in your mind still, my dear.  What is it
It makes us of so much consequence,-- so much more than I ever thought
of,-- that the minds of grown people should be busy about us
There is nothing to be vain of in that, my dear, any more than for
young kittens, and birds just hatched.  But it is very true that all
young creatures are of great consequence; for they are the children of
God.  When, besides this, we consider what human beings are,-- that they
can never perish, but are to live for ever,-- and that they are meant to
become more wise and holy than we can imagine, we see that the feeblest
infant is indeed a being of infinite consequence.  This is surely a
reason for God filling the hearts of parents with love, and making them
willing to work and suffer for their children, even while the little
ones are most unwise and unprofitable.  When you and Agnes fancied I
should forget you and desert you, you must have forgotten that you had
another Parent who rules the hearts of all the fathers and mothers on
earth
My dear boy
if you remember your
resolution, I think you will put away that book
O, mother
you want to take away the greatest pleasure
I have
If it is a pleasure, go on.  I was afraid it was becoming a pain
I will take away the book,-- shall I, my dear
Yes, mother.  O dear!  I shall never keep my vow, I know
Removed
Where
you will have more quiet and more liberty than
you can have here.  Your brother, and any other boys you like, can run
over to see you at any time; and you will be out of the noise of the
playground
I wonder how it is there is so little noise from the playground here
It is because the boys have been careful to make no noise since your
accident.  We cannot expect them to put themselves under such restraint
for long
O no, no!  I had better go.  But, mother, you -- you -- aunt Shaw is very
kind, but
I shall stay with you as long as you want me
But how in the world shall I get there
It is
two whole miles; and we can't lay my leg up in the gig: besides its
being so cold
What, to-morrow
Yes, if the sun shines
Now tell me
what person in all the world you would
like best for a companion
In all the world
Suppose I say the Great Mogul
Well; tell us how to catch him, and we will try.  Meantime, you can
have his picture.  I believe we have a pack of cards in the house
But do you mean really, uncle,-- the person I should like best in all
the world,-- out of Crofton
Yes; out with it
I should like Agnes best
We thought as much.  I am glad we were right.  Well, my boy, Agnes is
there
Agnes there!  Only two miles off!  How long will she stay
O, there is no hurry about that.  We shall see when you are well what
to do next
But will she stay till the holidays
O yes, longer than that, I hope
But then she will not go home with me for the holidays
Never mind about the holidays now.  Your holidays begin to-day.  You
have nothing to do but to get well now, and make yourself at home at my
house, and be merry with Agnes.  Now shall we go, while the sun shines?
Here is your mother all cloaked up in her warm things
O, mother!  Agnes is come
But how am I to go
Quietly in your bed
Come, I will lift you into it
I have been wanting to see you so!  But I did not like to ask for you
particularly
I wish I had known that
Come and see me,-- do
Come the very first, wont you
If I may
Oh, you may, I know
Well, I will, thank you.  Good-bye
What is it, my dear
Agnes, have we said anything
that could hurt him
No, no
I will tell you presently
Why, mother, you
Yes; that was the sort of little girl I was.  Well, I was in despair,
one day, at the thought that I should have to wash, and clean my teeth,
and brush my hair, and put on every daily article of dress every
morning, as long as I lived.  There was nothing I disliked so much; and
yet it was the thing that must be done every day of my whole life
Did you tell anybody
No; I was ashamed to do that: but I remember I cried.  You see how it
turns out.  Grown people, who have got to do everything by habit, so
easily as not to think about it, wash and dress every morning, without
ever being weary of it.  We do not consider so much as once a year what
we are doing at dressing-time, though at seven years old it is a very
laborious and tiresome affair to get ready for breakfast
It is the same about writing letters
The first
letter I ever wrote was to Aunt Shaw; and it took so long, and was so
tiresome, that, when I thought of all the exercises I should have to
write for Miss Harold, and all the letters that I must send to my
relations when I grew up, I would have given everything I had in the
world not to have learned to write.  Oh!  How I pitied papa, when I saw
sometimes the pile of letters that were lying to go to the post
And how do you like corresponding with Phil now
But that is not all -- nor half what I mean
No, my dear;
nor half what you will have to make up your mind to bear.  You will have
a great deal to bear, Hugh.  You resolved to bear it all patiently, I
remember: but what is it that you dread the most
Oh!  All manner of things.  I can never do things like other people
Some things.  You can never play cricket, as every Crofton boy would
like to do.  You can never dance at your sisters' Christmas parties
Oh!  Mamma
Go on!  Go on
You know what I feel,
mother; and you don't keep telling me, as Aunt Shaw does (and even Agnes
sometimes), that it wont signify much, and that I shall not care, and
all that; making out that it is no misfortune hardly, when I know what
it is, and they don't
That is a common way of trying to give comfort, and it is kindly
meant
But those who have suffered much themselves
know a better way.  The best way is not to deny any of the trouble or
the sorrow, and not to press on the sufferer any comforts which he
cannot now see and enjoy.  If comforts arise, he will enjoy them as they
come
Now then, go on
What else
There will be little checks and mortifications continually -- when you
see boys leaping over this, and climbing that, and playing at the other,
while you must stand out, and can only look on.  And some people will
pity you in a way you don't like; and some may even laugh at you
O mamma
I have seen and heard children in the street do it
This is a thing almost below notice; but I mentioned it while
we were reckoning up our troubles
Well, what else
Sooner or later, you will have to follow some way of life, determined
by this accident, instead of one that you would have liked better.  But
we need not think of this yet:-- not till you have become quite
accustomed to your lameness
Well, what else
I must ask you now.  I can think of nothing more; and I hope there is
not much else; for indeed I think here is quite enough for a boy -- or any
one else -- to bear
I will bear it, though,-- you will see
You will find great helps.  These misfortunes, of themselves,
strengthen one's mind.  They have some advantages too.  You will be a
better scholar for your lameness, I have no doubt.  You will read more
books, and have a mind richer in thoughts.  You will be more beloved;--
not out of mere pity; for people in general will soon leave off pitying
you, when once you learn to be active again; but because you have kept
faith with your schoolfellows, and shown that you can bear pain.  Yes,
you will be more loved by us all; and you yourself will love God more
for having given you something to bear for his sake
I hope so,-- I think so
O mother!  I may be very happy
yet
Very happy; and, when you have once made up your mind to everything,
the less you think and speak about it, the happier you will be.  It is
very right for us now, when it is all new, and strange, and painful, to
talk it well over; to face it completely; but when your mind is made up,
and you are a Crofton boy again, you will not wish to speak much of your
own concerns, unless it be to me, or to Agnes, sometimes, when your
heart is full
Or to Dale, when you are far off
Yes,-- to Dale, or some one friend at Crofton.  But there is only one
Friend that one is quite sure to get strength from,-- the same who has
given strength to all the brave people that ever lived, and comfort to
all sufferers.  When the greatest of all sufferers wanted relief, what
did He do
He went by Himself, and prayed
Yes, that is the way
I am too big a baby to be carried now
Let me try
if I cannot go alone
Why,-- there is the step at the parlour-door
At any rate, stop till I bring a light
Agnes
cannot you go somewhere, and leave us alone
I hardly know where I can go
I must not disturb
aunt; and there is no fire anywhere else
O, I am sure aunt won't mind, for this one afternoon.  You can be still
as a mouse; and she can doze away, as if nobody was there
I can be as still as a mouse here
I can take my
work to that farthest window; and if you whisper, I shall not hear a
word you say.  Or, if I do hear a word, I will tell you directly.  And
you will let me come, now and then, and warm myself, if I find I cannot
hold my needle any longer
No, no; that won't do.  We can't talk so.  Do just go, and see whether
aunt cannot let you be there for this one afternoon
Was that true that your sister said at dinner, about your always
longing so to come to Crofton
Yes
How sorry you must be that you came!  How you must wish that you had
never seen me
I knew that there would be things to bear, whenever I came; and
particularly while I was the youngest.  Your father told me that: and
one of the things that made me want to come more than ever was his
telling me how you bore things when you were the youngest -- being set on
the top of that wall, and so on
Indeed, indeed, I never meant to hurt you when I pulled your foot -- I
suppose you are quite sure that it was I that gave the first pull?  Are
you
Why, yes; I am sure of that; and so are you: but I know very well that
you meant no harm; and that is the reason I would not tell.  After what
you did about the sponge, I could not think you meant any harm to me
Do you think you shall never tell anybody, as long as you live, who
pulled you first
Never
unless I tell it in my sleep; and that is not
likely, for I never think about it in the daytime,-- or scarcely ever;
and when I can run about again, I dare say I shall never think of it at
all
But will you ever run about
O yes!  Finely, you will see.  I shall begin first with a little
stick-leg, very light.  Mother is going to send some for me to try.
When I am a man, I shall have one that will look like a real foot; but
that will not be so light as the one you will see me with after the
holidays.  But you do not half know what I can do now, with my crutches.
Here, I will show you
Now, I'll tell you what
I am a bigger and stronger boy
than you, without considering this accident I'll take care of you all
the time you are at Crofton: and always afterwards, if I can.  Mind you
that.  If anybody teases you, you call me,-- that's all.  Say you will
Why
I had rather take care of myself.  I had rather make
no difference between you and everybody else
There now!  You don't forgive me, after all
I do,-- upon my word, I do.  But why should I make any difference
between you and the rest, when you did not mean me any harm,-- any more
than they?  Besides, it might make people suspect
Well, let them.  Sometimes I wish
sometimes I wish that everybody
knew now.  They say murderers cannot keep their secret.  They are sure
to tell, when they cannot bear it any longer
That is because of their consciences
But you are not
guilty of anything, you know.  I am sure I can keep a secret easily
enough, when I am not to blame in it
Yes!  You have shown that.  But
Come!  Don't let us talk any more about that -- only just this.  Has
anybody accused you?  Because I must know,-- I must be on my guard
Nobody has said a word, because my father put us all upon honour never
to mention it: but I always feel as if all their eyes were upon me all
day,-- and sometimes in the night
Nonsense!  I don't believe anybody has pitched on you particularly.
And when school opens again, all their eyes will be on me, to see how I
manage.  But I don't mean to mind that.  Anybody may stare that likes
Whatever you say against it, I shall always take your part: and you
have only to ask me, and I will always run anywhere, and do anything for
you.  Mind you that
Thank you
Now tell me about the new usher; for I dare
say you know more than the other boys do.  Holt and I shall be under him
altogether, I suppose
Yes: and you will be well off, by what I hear.  He is as little like
Mr Carnaby as need be
My dear
you have let these boys keep you away from
the fire
Yes, aunt; never mind!  I shall be warm enough presently
But you should not allow it, Agnes.  How are they ever to learn
manners, if they are not made to give way to young ladies while they are
young?  Boys are sure to be rude enough, at any rate.  Their sisters
should know better than to spoil them
Yes
I am the only one not going home, unless you are to
stay hereabouts.  Even Tooke is to be at his uncle's in London.  When do
you go home
Not quite yet;-- not at the beginning of the holidays
I have a good mind to tell you what has been upon my mind this ever so
long
Wait a minute
I must find my example first
Remember, it is only sixpence that you owe me -- not a shilling
And you did
How silly
You would have done it, if you had been there
No: I should not
Yes, you would.  Or, if you had not, it would have been because of -- I
know what
Because of what, pray
Because of something the boys say about you.  They say you are very
fond of money
I!  Fond of money!  I declare I never heard of such a thing
Well, you know you made a great fuss about that half-crown
As if it was about the money
I should not have cared a
bit if my uncle had asked me for it back again the next day.  It was the
being cheated.  That was the thing.  What a shame
By-the-by, did your uncle ever ask what you did with that half-crown
No; but he will next week, at the January fair.  He will be sure to ask
then.  What a shame of the boys to say so, when I forgave
How much did you bet on the balloon
A shilling; and I lost
Then you owe eighteen-pence
But that is not all.  I borrowed a shilling of Meredith to pay
school-fines
What for
Chiefly for leaving my books about.  Meredith says I promised to pay
him before the holidays; but I am sure I never did.  He twitted me about
it, so that I declare I would have fought him, if I could have paid him
first
That's right
Why, Holt, what a different fellow you
are!  You never used to talk of fighting
But this fellow Meredith plagued me so!  If it had not been for that
shilling, I would have knocked him down.  Well, here is half-a-crown
altogether; and how am I ever to get half-a-crown
Cannot you ask your uncle
No; you know I can't.  You know he complains about having to pay the
bills for me before my father can send the money from India
I suppose it would take too long to ask your father.  Yes; of course it
would.  There would be another holidays before you could have an answer;
and almost another still.  I wonder what uncle Shaw would say.  He is
very kind always, but it might set him asking
And what should I do, staying here, if he should be angry and refuse?
What should I do every day at dinner
I know what I would do
I would tell Mr Tooke
all about it, and ask him for half-a-crown
Mr Tooke?  Oh!  I dare not
I dare,-- in holiday-time.  He is your master,-- next to being your
father, while your father is so far away.  You had better ask Mr Tooke,
to be sure
What go to Crofton, and speak to him?  I really want not to be a
coward,-- but I never could go and tell him
Write him a letter, then.  Yes: that is the way.  Write a letter, and I
will get one of my uncle's men to carry it, and wait for an answer: and
then you will not be long in suspense, at any rate
I wish I dare
The Mill, _January 6th_.

  "Dear Sir,

  "I am very unhappy; and Proctor thinks I had better tell you what is
  upon my mind.  I owe some money, and I do not see how I can ever pay
  it, unless you will help me.  You know I have owed Proctor sixpence
  for ginger-beer, this long time; and as Lamb has never paid him his
  share, Proctor cannot excuse me this debt.  Then I owe a boy a
  shilling, lent me for school-fines; and he never lets me alone about
  it.  Then I was led into betting a shilling on a balloon, and I lost;
  and so I owe half-a-crown.  If you would lend me that sum, sir, I
  shall be obliged to you for ever, and I shall never forget it.

  "Yours respectfully,

  "Thomas Holt
Well, now, Holt, let us see what can be done about your affairs
lend
I am glad you asked me
for people, whether they
be men or boys, can usually retrieve their affairs when they have
resolution to face their difficulties.  There is no occasion to say
anything about how you got into debt.  We must consider how you are to
get out of it
That is very kind indeed
As to my lending you half-a-crown
that would
not be helping you out of debt; for if you had had any prospect of being
able to pay half-a-crown, you would not have needed to apply to me at
all
I cannot give you the money.  I have less to give away than I should
like to have, for the sake of the poor people round us.  I cannot pay
for a bet and school-fines while the children of our neighbours want
clothes and fire
No, sir, certainly
What do people do, all the world over, when they want money
When men come begging to our doors
what is the first
question we ask them
Why, Holt, you must know very well.  We ask them whether they cannot
get work
Work
Yes
The fathers and uncles of both of you work for
what money they have; and so do I; and so does every man among our
neighbours who is satisfied with his condition.  As far as I see, you
must get the money you want in the same way
Work
How is he to get work
That is where I hope to assist him
Are you
willing to earn your half-crown, Holt
I don't know how, sir
Widow Murray thinks she should have a better chance for a new lodger if
her little parlour was fresh papered; but she is too rheumatic to do it
herself, and cannot afford to engage a workman.  If you like to try,
under her directions, I will pay you as your work deserves
But, sir, I never papered a room in my life
No more had the best paper-hanger in London when he first tried.  But
if you do not like that work, what do you think of doing some writing
for me?  Our tables of rules are dirty.  If you will make good copies of
our rules for all the rooms in which they hang, in the course of the
holidays, I will pay you half-a-crown.  But the copies must be quite
correct, and the writing good.  I can offer you one other choice.  Our
school library wants looking to.  If you will put fresh paper covers to
all the books that want covering, write the titles on the backs, compare
the whole with the catalogue, and arrange them properly on the shelves,
I will pay you half-a-crown
Do choose the papering
I can help you in that, I do
believe.  I can walk that little way, to widow Murray's; and I can paste
the paper.  Widow Murray will show you how to do it; and it is very
easy, if you once learn to join the pattern.  I found that, when I
helped to paper the nursery closet at home
It is an easy pattern to join
There now!  And that is the chief thing.  If you do the library books,
I cannot help you, you know.  And remember, you will have two miles to
walk each way; four miles a-day in addition to the work
He can sleep at Crofton, if he likes
That would be a queer way of staying at uncle Shaw's
Then there is copying the rules
I might do that here;
and you might help me, if you liked
Dull work
Think of copying the same rules three or
four times over!  And then, if you make mistakes, if you do not write
clearly, where is your half-crown?  I don't mean that I would not help
you, but it would be the dullest work of all
No debtor's hands are clean, however white they be: Who digs and pays
his way -- the true gentleman is he
And a pair of steps
Steps, of course
You will think it a pretty
paper, I am sure
But, sir, she must quite understand that she is not at all obliged to
us,-- that is, to me
Certainly.  You will tell her so yourself, of course
I do not want you to tell me what Mr Tooke wrote on that paper that he
burned.  I only want to know whether he asked you to choose so as to
indulge me
You!  O no!  There was not a word about you
O!  Very well
Never mind your theme
Nobody expected you to do one; and
you have only to say that you left it behind you
It is not that
I must show up my theme
You can't, you know, if you have it not to show
But it is there: it is at my uncle's, if any one would go for it
Go for it
What, in the dark,-- this freezing
afternoon
It is not near dark; it will not be dark this hour.  Anybody might run
there and back before supper
I took such pains with that theme,-- all the holidays!  And I can't go
for it myself
Little Holt has been beforehand with you
I refused
him, however, as he is not so fit as you to be out after dark.  Off with
you
There is your theme, and my aunt is very sorry
Oh!  Phil, and I am so sorry too!  I hope you are not very tired
Never mind
There is your theme
The thing is that it does not help me to say them to just anybody.
Saying them to somebody that I am afraid of is what I want
Why, you are not afraid of me
Yes I am -- rather
What for
Oh, because you are older;-- and you are so much more of a Crofton boy
than I am -- and you are very strict -- and altogether
Yes, you will find me pretty strict, I can tell you
Well, we must see what we can do.  I will hear you to-night, at
any rate
dunce
I know what Tooke is feeling
He is pleased to see me
lowered, as long as it is not his doing.  He is sorry to see me suffer
by my lameness; because that hurts his conscience: but he is pleased to
see me wrong and disgraced, because that relieves him of the feeling of
being obliged to me.  If I were now to put him in mind of his promise,
to stand by me, and protect me -- I declare I will -- it will stop his
wicked joy -- it will make him remember his duty
Ah!  And you little know
how deep a shame it is
Respected
Not a bit of it
They none of them remember: they don't
care a bit about it
I tell you they don't.  I know they don't.  I know it for certain; and
I will tell you how I know.  There is the very boy that did it,-- the
very boy that pulled me from the wall -- O!  If you knew who it was, you
_would_ say it was a shame
Would you like to know who it was that did it, Dale
Yes, if you like to tell; but -- And if he treats you ill, after the way
you used him, he cannot expect you should consider him so -- Besides, I am
your best friend; and I always tell you everything
Yes, that you do.  And he has treated me so shamefully to-day!  And I
have nobody to speak to that knows.  You will promise never -- never to
tell anybody as long as you live
To be sure
And you won't tell anybody that I have told you
To be sure not
Well, then
I don't want to interrupt you
and I know you wish I would
not come; but the others made me come.  The biggest boys lay that the
second-size can't jump the brook at the willow-stump; and the
second-size boys want Dale to try.  They made me come.  I could not help
it
You will not go -- you will not leave me at such a moment
You will not mind my going, just for one leap.  It will hardly take a
minute.  I shall not stay for a game.  But I must have just one leap
What, then, am I?  If Dale was selfish, what was I?  I was just going
to tell what would have pointed out Tooke to him for life.  I know as
well as can be that it was all accident his pulling me off the wall; and
yet I was going to bring it up against him; and for the very reason why
I should not,-- because he has not behaved well to me.  I was just going
to spoil the only good thing I ever did for anybody in my life.  But it
is spoiled -- completely spoiled.  I shall never be able to trust myself
again.  It is all by mere accident that it is not all over now.  If Holt
had not come that very instant, my secret would have been out, and I
could never have got it back again!  I could never have looked Tooke in
the face any more.  I don't know that I can now; for I am as wicked as
if I had told
I did it!  I took the leap, and came off with my shoe-soles as dry as a
crust.  Ah!  They are wet now; but that is with another leap I took for
sport.  I told you I should not be long gone.  Now for it!  Who did it
I am not going to tell you, Dale,-- not now, nor ever
Why, that is too bad!  I am sure I stay beside you often enough, when
the others are playing: you need not grudge me this one leap,-- when the
boys sent for me, too
It is not that, Dale.  You are very kind always in staying beside me;
and I do not wish that you should give up play for my sake half so much
as you do.  But I was very, very wrong in meaning to tell you that
secret.  I should have been miserable by this time if I had
But you promised.  You must keep your promise.  What would all the boys
say, if I told them you had broken your promise
If they knew what it was about, they would despise me for ever meaning
to tell -- not for stopping short in time.  That was only accident,
however.  But my secret is my own still
Dear Mother,--

  "It is Saturday afternoon, and I have come home from the meadows
  before the rest, to tell you something that has made me very uneasy.
  If I had told anybody in the world who pulled me off the wall, it
  should and would have been you,-- that night after it happened: and I
  am afraid I should have told you, if you had not prevented it: for I
  find I am not to be trusted when I am talking with anybody I love very
  much.  I have not told yet: but I should have told Dale if Holt had
  not run up at the very moment.  It makes me very unhappy,-- almost as
  much as if I had let it out: for how do I know but that I may tell a
  hundred times over in my life, if I could forget so soon?  I shall be
  afraid of loving anybody very much, and talking with them alone, as
  long as I live.  I never felt the least afraid of telling till to-day;
  and you cannot think how unhappy it makes me.  And then, the thing
  that provoked me to tell was that boy's being surly to me, and glad
  that I was in disgrace this morning, for doing my lessons badly all
  this week,-- the very thing that should have made me particularly
  careful how I behaved to him: for his pulling me off the wall was only
  accident, after all.  Everything has gone wrong to-day; and I am very
  unhappy, and I feel as if I should never be sure of anything again;
  and so I write to you.  You told me you expected me not to fail; and
  you see I have; and the next thing is that I must tell you of it.

  "Your affectionate son,

  "Hugh Proctor.

  "PS.  Phil has been very kind about my lessons, till this week
  &lsqb;_interlined_&rsqb;, when he has been very busy.

  "PS.  If you should answer this, please put &bquo;private' outside, or at
  the top; and then Mr Tooke will not read it, nor anybody.  But I know
  you are very busy always; so I do not quite expect an answer
Do you think
that all this is true
It is true that he is to go to India.  His father has interest to get
him out.  But I do not believe he will like it so well as he thinks.  At
least, I know that my father has to work pretty hard,-- harder than Lamb
ever worked, or ever will work
O dear!  I wish I could go and do the work; and I would send all the
money home to him (except just enough to live upon), and then he might
go to dinners and balls in London, as much as he liked, and I could see
the Hindoos and the cave-temples
That is another mistake of Lamb's,-- about the quantity of money
I do not believe anybody in India is so rich as he pretends, if
they work ever so hard.  I know my father works as hard as anybody, and
he is not rich; and I know the same of several of his friends.  So it is
hardly likely that such a lazy dunce as Lamb should be rich, unless he
has a fortune here at home; and if he had that, I do not believe he
would take the trouble of going so far, to suffer by the heat
I should not mind the heat
if I could go.  You must
write to me, Holt, all about India.  Write me the longest letters in the
world; and tell me everything you can think of about the natives, and
Juggernaut's Car
That I will, if you like.  But I am afraid that would only make you
long the more to go,-- like reading Voyages and Travels.  How I do wish,
though, that you were going with me by-and-by, as you let me go home
with you these holidays
Do you really and truly wish not to fail, as you say, Hugh
To be sure
Well, then, do try not to be cross
I am not cross
I know you think it is low spirits.  I am not quite sure of that: but
if it is, would not it be braver not to be low in spirits
That is true, I dare say; and I do not believe I should be half as
brave as you, but I _should_ like to see you quite brave
It is a pretty thing for you to lecture me, when I got down those books
on purpose for you,-- those Voyages and Travels.  And how can I look at
those same books, now and not
Was it for me
Then I am very
sorry.  I will carry them to Mrs Proctor, and ask her to put them quite
away till we are gone back to Crofton
No, no.  Don't do that.  I want them
I consider you a real friend to Hugh
I have dreaded seeing my boy capable only of
a short effort of courage;-- bearing pain of body and mind well while
everybody was sorry for him, and ready to praise him; and then failing
in the long trial afterwards.  When other people are leaving off being
sorry for him, you continue your concern for him, and still remind him
not to fail
Would not it be a pity, ma'am
would it not be
a pity for him to fail when he bore everything so well at first, and
when he helped me so that I don't know what I should have done without
him?  He made me write to Mr Tooke, and so got me out of debt; and a
hundred times, I am sure, the thought of him and his secret has put
spirit into me.  It would be a pity if he should fail without knowing
it, for want of somebody to put him in mind.  He might so easily think
he was bearing it all well, as long as he could talk about his foot, and
make a joke of being lame, when, all the while, he might be losing his
temper in other ways
Why, how true that is
I was going to ask if I was
ever cross about being lame: but I know I am about other things, because
I am worried about that, sometimes
It is so easy to put you in mind
and we shall all be
so glad if you are brave to the very end
I will
Only do you go on to put me in mind
And _you_ will grow more and more brave, too
That is Lamb
No, indeed
Now, Proctor
you must
consider what you have to say to this.  Your parents are willing to
agree if you are.  But if
it would
make you very unhappy to go to India, no one will force your
inclinations
Oh, sir
I will work very hard,-- I will work as hard as
ever I can, if I may go
Well: you may go, you see, if you will work hard.  You can consider it
quietly, or talk it over with your brother and Holt; and to-morrow you
are to dine at your uncle's, where you will meet your father; and he and
you will settle what to write to Mr Holt, by the next ship
And you, sir
Mr Holt asks your opinion
My opinion is that your brother can be what he pleases.  He wants some
inducement to pursue his learning more strenuously than he has done
yet
I will, sir.  I will
I believe you will.  Such a prospect as this will be an inducement, if
anything can.  You are, on the whole, a brave boy; and brave boys are
not apt to be ungrateful to God or man; and I am sure you think it would
be ungrateful, both to God and man, to refuse to do your best in the
situation which gratifies the first wish of your heart
I never should have gone to India if I had not lost my foot; and I
think it is well worth while losing my foot to go to India
Do you really?  Or do you say it because
I think so really
</text>
