<text>
Somewhat back from the village street
    Stands the old-fashioned country seat
I am glad there's a fire
Will it keep alight till
the morning, do you think
'Twould not be safe to leave it so that it would burn till morning
When you are in bed and asleep, little missie, you won't want
the fire. Bed's the warmest place
It isn't for that I want it
it's for the light I like
it. This house all looks so dark to me, and yet there seem to be lights
hidden in the walls too, they shine so
It will all seem strange to you, no doubt
but you'll get
to like it, missie. 'Tis a _good_ old house, and those that know best
love it well
Whom do you mean
Do you mean my great-aunts
Ah, yes, and others beside
The rooks love it
well, and others beside. Did you ever hear tell of the 'good people,'
missie, over the sea where you come from
Fairies, do you mean
Of course
I've _heard_ of them, but I never saw any. Did you ever
I couldn't say
My mind is not young like yours, missie, and there are times when
strange memories come back to me as of sights and sounds in a dream. I
am too old to see and hear as I once could. We are all old here, missie.
'Twas time something young came to the old house again
How strange and queer everything seems
I don't feel as if I belonged to it a bit. And they are all
_so_ old; perhaps they won't like having a child among them
I wonder what it will all look like in the morning
If it was summer now, or spring, I shouldn't
mind -- there would always be something nice to do then
If it was summer now, or spring
it is bitt
erly cold
If
only it was spring
Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo
What a funny cuckoo
I could almost fancy
it was in the house. I wonder if my great-aunts have a tame cuckoo in a
cage? I don't _think_ I ever heard of such a thing, but this is such a
queer house; everything seems different in it -- perhaps they have a tame
cuckoo. I'll ask them in the morning. It's very nice to hear, whatever
it is
Oh, aunt
have you got a cuckoo in a
cage
A cuckoo in a cage
what is
the child talking about
In a cage
a cuckoo in a cage
There is a cuckoo somewhere in the house
I heard it
in the night. It couldn't have been out-of-doors, could it? It would be
too cold
So like her
grandmother
We have a cuckoo, my dear, though it isn't in a cage, and it isn't
exactly the sort of cuckoo you are thinking of. It lives in a clock
In a clock
In a clock
In a clock
but it can't be alive, then
Why not
I don't know
I knew a little girl once
who was quite of
opinion the cuckoo _was_ alive, and nothing would have persuaded her it
was not. Finish your breakfast, my dear, and then if you like you shall
come with me and see the cuckoo for yourself
Thank you, Aunt Grizzel
Yes
you shall see the cuckoo for yourself
Thank you, Aunt Tabitha
thank you
no, thank you
We have beautiful roses in summer
I wish it was summer. I do love summer
But there is a
very rosy scent in the rooms even now, Aunt Grizzel, though it is
winter, or nearly winter
My pot-pourri
great saloon
Oh, how do you make them do that, Aunt Grizzel
Never you mind, my dear; it wouldn't do for _you_ to try to make them
nod. They wouldn't like it
Respect
to your elders, my dear, always remember that. The mandarins are _many_
years older than you -- older than I myself, in fact
Here is my last summer's pot-pourri
You may
smell it, my dear
It's lovely
May I smell it whenever I like, Aunt Grizzel
We shall see
It isn't _every_ little girl, you
know, that we could trust to come into the great saloon alone
No
It is on the stroke of ten
now, my dear, you shall make acquaintance with our cuckoo
that lived in a clock
Cuckoo! cuckoo! cuckoo
Seven, eight, nine, ten
Yes, he never makes a mistake
All these long years I have never known him wrong.
There are no such clocks made nowadays, I can assure you, my dear
But _is_ it a clock? Isn't he alive
He looked at
me and nodded his head, before he flapped his wings and went in to his
house again -- he did indeed, aunt
just like
saying, 'How do you do?' to me
Just what Sybilla used to say
Well, my dear
it is quite right he
_should_ say, 'How do you do?' to you. It is the first time he has seen
_you_, though many a year ago he knew your dear grandmother, and your
father, too, when he was a little boy. You will find him a good friend,
and one that can teach you many lessons
What, Aunt Grizzel
Punctuality, for one thing, and faithful discharge of duty
May I come to see the cuckoo -- to watch for him coming out, sometimes
You will see him several times a day
for it is in
this little room I intend you to prepare your tasks. It is nice and
quiet, and nothing to disturb you, and close to the room where your Aunt
Tabitha and I usually sit
What a _very_ funny house it is, Aunt Grizzel
Every room has so many doors, and you
come back to where you were just when you think you are ever so far
off. I shall never be able to find my way about
Oh yes, you will, my dear, very soon
She is very kind
but I wish she wouldn't call my
lessons tasks. It makes them sound so dreadfully hard. But, any way, I'm
glad I'm to do them in the room where that dear cuckoo lives
fairies but seldom appear;
    If we do wrong we must expect
      That it will cost us dear
over the sea
dreadfully
dull
Madame
rows
proving
I wouldn't mind so much
if it was any
good. But you see, Aunt Grizzel, it isn't. For I'm just as likely to do
the _proving_ wrong as the sum itself -- more likely, for I'm always so
tired when I get to the proving -- and so all that's proved is that
_something's_ wrong, and I'm sure that isn't any good, except to make me
cross
Hush
That is not the way for a little girl to
speak. Improve these golden hours of youth, Griselda; they will never
return
I hope not
if it means doing sums
Good little cuckoo
What an example he sets you.
His life is spent in the faithful discharge of duty
Faith -- ful, dis -- charge, of -- your, du -- ty
faith -- ful
You horrid little creature
what
business have you to mock me
I wish it was twelve o'clock
It is fine just now
but there is a prospect of
rain before long. You must leave your lessons for the present, and
finish them in the afternoon
I have finished them
_All_
Yes, all
Ah, well, then, this afternoon, if the rain holds off, we shall drive
to Merrybrow Hall, and inquire for the health of your dear godmother,
Lady Lavander
My
dear
a good little miss
I am not a good little girl at all
I'm very bad and cruel. I believe I've killed the
dear little cuckoo
It is past your supper-time, my dear
Go up at
once to your room, and Dorcas shall bring some supper to you. Late hours
are bad for young people
Cuckoo
I _must_ go
I am sure you are going to be ill, child
Sister
Grizzel must give you some medicine. I wonder what would be the best.
Tansy tea is an excellent thing when one has taken cold, or
Sister Tabitha
what can be going to happen? The
cuckoo clock has stopped
The cuckoo clock has stopped
_im_possible
But it has, or rather I should say -- dear me, I am so upset I cannot
explain myself -- the _cuckoo_ has stopped. The clock is going on, but the
cuckoo has not told the hours, and Dorcas is of opinion that he left off
doing so yesterday. What can be going to happen? What shall we do
What can we do
Should we send for the
watch-maker
'Twould be worse than useless. Were we to search the world over, we
could find no one to put it right. Fifty years and more, Tabitha, fifty
years and more, it has never missed an hour! We are getting old,
Tabitha, our day is nearly over; perhaps 'tis to remind us of this
Have you heard what has happened, little missie
Yes
My ladies are in great trouble
and no wonder. For fifty years
that clock has never gone wrong
Can't it be put right
No good would come of interfering
What must be, must be.
The luck of the house hangs on that clock. Its maker spent a good part
of his life over it, and his last words were that it would bring good
luck to the house that owned it, but that trouble would follow its
silence. It's my belief
that it's a _fairy_
clock, neither more nor less, for good luck it has brought there's no
denying. There are no cows like ours, missie -- their milk is a proverb
hereabouts; there are no hens like ours for laying all the year round;
there are no roses like ours. And there's always a friendly feeling in
this house, and always has been. 'Tis not a house for wrangling and
jangling, and sharp words. The 'good people' can't stand that. Nothing
drives them away like ill-temper or anger
I wish you wouldn't talk that way, Dorcas
it makes me so
unhappy
What a feeling heart the child has
It's true -- she is very like Miss Sybilla
I do think the cuckoo might have come back
again
if he is a fairy; and if he isn't, it
can't be true what Dorcas says
at her tasks
I am sure they are talking about me
Perhaps
they are fairies too. I am beginning to think I don't like fairies
cuckoo
If it's that cuckoo come back again, I'll catch him
Little girl, thou must thy part fulfil,
      If we're to take kindly to ours:
    Then pull up the weeds with a will,
      And fairies will cherish the flowers
It looks prettier with the light coming in at those holes at the top
than even if the shutters were open
How
goldy-silvery the cabinet looks; and, yes, I do declare, the mandarins
are nodding! I wonder if it is out of politeness to me, or does Aunt
Grizzel come in last thing at night and touch them to make them keep
nodding till morning? I _suppose_ they're a sort of policemen to the
palace; and I dare say there are all sorts of beautiful things inside.
How I should like to see all through it
WHY WON'T YOU SPEAK TO ME
Cuckoo
Cuckoo
Why won't you speak to me? I
know you are there, and you're not asleep, for I heard your voice in my
own room. Why won't you come out, cuckoo
Cuckoo
I didn't think you were so
hard-hearted. I have been _so_ unhappy about you, and I was so pleased
to hear your voice again, for I thought I had killed you, or hurt you
very badly; and I didn't _mean_ to hurt you, cuckoo. I was sorry the
moment I had done it, _dreadfully_ sorry. Dear cuckoo, won't you
forgive me
Cuckoo
Griselda
are you truly sorry
I told you I was
But I didn't _feel_ so very naughty,
cuckoo. I didn't, really. I was only vexed for one minute, and when I
threw the book I seemed to be a very little in fun, too. And it made me
so unhappy when you went away, and my poor aunts have been dreadfully
unhappy too. If you hadn't come back I should have told them to-morrow
what I had done. I would have told them before, but I was afraid it
would have made them more unhappy. I thought I had hurt you dreadfully
So you did
But you _look_ quite well
It was _my feelings_
and I couldn't help going
away. I have to obey orders like other people
How do you mean
Never mind. You can't understand at present
You can
understand about obeying _your_ orders, and you see, when you don't,
things go wrong
Yes
they certainly do. But, cuckoo
I never used to get into tempers at home -- _hardly_ never,
at least; and I liked my lessons then, and I never was scolded about
them
What's wrong here, then
It isn't often that things
go wrong in this house
That's what Dorcas says
It must be with my being a
child -- my aunts and the house and everything have got out of children's
ways
About time they did
And so
it is really very dull. I have lots of
lessons, but it isn't so much that I mind. It is that I've no one to
play with
There's something in that
I'll consider about it
Thank you
And in the meantime
you'd better obey present
orders and go back to bed
Shall I say good-night to you, then
You're quite welcome to do so
Why shouldn't
you
You see I wasn't sure if you would like it
for of
course you're not like a person, and -- and -- I've been told all sorts of
queer things about what fairies like and don't like
Who said I was a fairy
Dorcas did, and, _of course_, my own common sense did too
You must be a fairy -- you couldn't be anything else
I might be a fairyfied cuckoo
I don't understand
and I don't think it could make much
difference. But whatever you are, I wish you would tell me one thing
What
I want to know, now that you've forgiven me for throwing the book at
you, have you come back for good
Certainly not for evil
Cuckoo, you're laughing at me
I mean, have you come back to stay and cuckoo as usual and make
my aunts happy again
You'll see in the morning
Now go off to bed
Good night
and thank you, and please don't forget to
let me know when you've considered
Cuckoo, cuckoo
It must be late
I must have slept a long time. I feel so
beautifully unsleepy now. I must dress quickly -- how nice it will be to
see my aunts look happy again! I don't even care if they scold me for
being late
Cuckoo
Aunt Grizzel
isn't the cuckoo all right again
Yes, my dear. I am delighted to say it is
Did you get it put right, Aunt Grizzel
Little girls should not ask so many questions
It _is_ all right again, and that is enough. During fifty
years that cuckoo has never, till yesterday, missed an hour. If you, in
your sphere, my dear, do as well during fifty years, you won't have done
badly
No, indeed, you won't have done badly
I wonder when the cuckoo will have considered enough about my having no
one to play with
Caw, caw
Your voice isn't half so pretty as the cuckoo's, Mr. Rook
All the same, I dare say I should make friends with you, if I
understood what you meant. How funny it would be to know all the
languages of the birds and the beasts, like the prince in the fairy
tale! I wonder if I should wish for that, if a fairy gave me a wish? No,
I don't think I would. I'd _far_ rather have the fairy carpet that would
take you anywhere you liked in a minute. I'd go to China to see if all
the people there look like Aunt Grizzel's mandarins; and I'd first of
all, of course, go to fairyland
You must come in now, little missie
Miss Grizzel
says you have had play enough, and there's a nice fire in the ante-room
for you to do your lessons by
Play
Do you call walking up and down the terrace 'play,' Dorcas? I
mustn't loiter even to pick a flower, if there were any, for fear of
catching cold, and I mustn't run for fear of overheating myself. I
declare, Dorcas, if I don't have some play soon, or something to amuse
me, I think I'll run away
Nay, nay, missie, don't talk like that. You'd never do anything so
naughty, and you so like Miss Sybilla, who was so good
Dorcas, I'm tired of being told I'm like Miss Sybilla
She was my grandmother; no one would like to be told they
were like their grandmother. It makes me feel as if my face must be all
screwy up and wrinkly, and as if I should have spectacles on and a wig
_That_ is not like what Miss Sybilla was when I first saw her
She was younger than you, missie, and as pretty as a fairy
_Was_ she
Yes, indeed she was. She might have been a fairy, so sweet she was and
gentle -- and yet so merry. Every creature loved her; even the animals
about seemed to know her, as if she was one of themselves. She brought
good luck to the house, and it was a sad day when she left it
I thought you said it was the cuckoo that brought good luck
Well, so it was. The cuckoo and Miss Sybilla came here the same day. It
was left to her by her mother's father, with whom she had lived since
she was a baby, and when he died she came here to her sisters. She
wasn't _own_ sister to my ladies, you see, missie. Her mother had come
from Germany, and it was in some strange place there, where her
grandfather lived, that the cuckoo clock was made. They make wonderful
clocks there, I've been told, but none more wonderful than our cuckoo,
I'm sure
No, I'm _sure_ not
Why didn't Miss Sybilla
take it with her when she was married and went away
She knew her sisters were so fond of it. It was like a memory of her
left behind for them. It was like a part of her. And do you know,
missie, the night she died -- she died soon after your father was born, a
year after she was married -- for a whole hour, from twelve to one, that
cuckoo went on cuckooing in a soft, sad way, like some living creature
in trouble. Of course, we did not know anything was wrong with her, and
folks said something had caught some of the springs of the works; but
_I_ didn't think so, and never shall. And
Griselda, what are you loitering so for? Dorcas, you should have
hastened, not delayed Miss Griselda
And if he sees
if he sees how hard I am trying to
do my lessons well, it will perhaps make him be quick about
'considering
Is it you, cuckoo
Cuckoo, cuckoo
Cuckoo, cuckoo
Good evening, cuckoo
Good morning, you mean
Good morning, then, cuckoo
Have you considered about
me, cuckoo
Have you learnt to obey orders yet, Griselda
I'm trying
But you see, cuckoo, I've not had very
long to learn in -- it was only last night you told me, you know
You've a great deal to learn, Griselda
I dare say I have
But I can tell you one thing,
cuckoo -- whatever lessons I have, I _couldn't_ ever have any worse than
those addition sums of Mr. Kneebreeches'. I have made up my mind about
that, for to-day, do you know, cuckoo
Yesterday
Always be exact in your statements,
Griselda
Well, yesterday, then
though when you
know quite well what I mean, I don't see that you need be so _very_
particular. Well, as I was saying, I tried and _tried_, but still they
were fearful. They were, indeed
You've a great deal to learn, Griselda
I wish you wouldn't say that so often
I thought you
were going to _play_ with me
There's something in that
there's something in
that. I should like to talk about it. But we could talk more comfortably
if you would come up here and sit beside me
Sit beside you up there
Cuckoo, how _could_ I? I'm
far, far too big
Big
What do you mean by big? It's all a matter
of fancy. Don't you know that if the world and everything in it,
counting yourself of course, was all made little enough to go into a
walnut, you'd never find out the difference
_Wouldn't_ I
but, _not_
counting myself, cuckoo, I would then, wouldn't I
Nonsense
you've a great deal to learn, and
one thing is, not to _argue_. Nobody should argue; it's a shocking bad
habit, and ruins the digestion. Come up here and sit beside me
comfortably. Catch hold of the chain; you'll find you can manage if you
try
But it'll stop the clock
Aunt Grizzel said I was
never to touch the weights or the chains
Stuff
it won't stop the clock. Catch hold of the
chains and swing yourself up. There now -- I told you you could manage
it
We're all nodding, nid-nid-nodding
quite like other people
Thank you
Are you comfortable
Quite
Are all cuckoo clocks like this when you get up inside them
I can't think how there's room for this dear little place
between the clock and the wall. Is it a hole cut out of the wall on
purpose, cuckoo
Hush
we've got other things to talk about. First,
shall I lend you one of my mantles? You may feel cold
I don't just now
but perhaps I _might_
What a _lovely_ cloak
It's better than lovely
as you shall see. Now,
Griselda
now,
Griselda, let us talk
We have been talking
ever so long. I am very
comfortable. When you say 'let us talk' like that, it makes me forget
all I wanted to say. Just let me sit still and say whatever comes into
my head
That won't do
we must have a plan of action
A what
You see you _have_ a great deal to learn
You don't understand what I say
But I didn't come up here to learn
I can do that down
there
I want to play
Just so
that's what I want to talk about. What do
you call 'play'-- blindman's-buff and that sort of thing
No
I'm getting rather too big for that
kind of play. Besides, cuckoo, you and I alone couldn't have much fun at
blindman's-buff; there'd be only me to catch you or you to catch me
Oh, we could easily get more
The mandarins would be
pleased to join
The mandarins
Why, cuckoo, they're not alive! How
could they play
You have a _great_ deal to learn
Don't you know
that _everything's_ alive
No
I don't; and I don't know what you mean, and I
don't think I want to know what you mean. I want to talk about playing
Well
talk
What I call playing
is -- I have thought about it
now, you see -- is being amused. If you will amuse me, cuckoo, I will
count that you are playing with me
How shall I amuse you
Oh, that's for you to find out
You might tell
me fairy stories, you know: if you're a fairy you should know lots;
or -- oh yes, of course that would be far nicer -- if you are a fairy you
might take me with you to fairyland
That
I cannot do
Why not
Lots of children have been there
I doubt it
_Some_ may have been, but not lots. And
some may have thought they had been there who hadn't really been there
at all. And as to those who have been there, you may be sure of one
thing -- they were not _taken_, they found their own way. No one ever was
_taken_ to fairyland -- to the real fairyland. They may have been taken to
the neighbouring countries, but not to fairyland itself
And how is one ever to find one's own way there
That I cannot tell you either
There are many
roads there; you may find yours some day. And if ever you do find it, be
sure you keep what you see of it well swept and clean, and then you may
see further after a while. Ah, yes, there are many roads and many doors
into fairyland
Doors
Are there any doors into fairyland in this
house
Several
but don't waste your time looking for them
at present. It would be no use
Then how will you amuse me
Don't you care to go anywhere except to fairyland
Oh yes, there are lots of places I wouldn't mind seeing. Not geography
sort of places -- it would be just like lessons to go to India and Africa
and all those places -- but _queer_ places, like the mines where the
goblins make diamonds and precious stones, and the caves down under the
sea where the mermaids live. And -- oh, I've just thought -- now I'm so nice
and little, I _would_ like to go all over the mandarins' palace in the
great saloon
That can be easily managed
but -- excuse me for an
instant
Cuckoo,
cuckoo, cuckoo
As I was saying
nothing could be easier. But
that palace, as you call it, has an entrance on the other side, as well
as the one you know
Another door, do you mean
How funny! Does it go
through the wall? And where does it lead to
It leads
it leads to the country of the Nodding
Mandarins
_What_ fun
Cuckoo, do let us
go there. How can we get down? You can fly, but must I slide down the
chain again
Oh dear, no
by no means. You have only to stretch
out your feather mantle, flap it as if it was wings -- so
wish, and there you'll be
Where
Wherever you wish to be, of course
Are you ready?
Here goes
Wait -- wait a moment
Where am I to wish to be
Bless the child
Where _do_ you wish to be? You
said you wanted to visit the country of the Nodding Mandarins
Yes; but am I to wish first to be in the palace in the great saloon
Certainly
That is the entrance to Mandarin Land,
and you said you would like to see through it. So -- you're surely ready
now
A thought has just struck me
How will you know what
o'clock it is, so as to come back in time to tell the next hour? My
aunts will get into such a fright if you go wrong again! Are you sure we
shall have time to go to the mandarins' country to-night
Time
what is time? Ah, Griselda, you have a
_very_ great deal to learn! What do you mean by time
I don't know
Being slow or
quick -- I suppose that's what I mean
And what is slow, and what is quick
_All_ a matter
of fancy! If everything that's been done since the world was made till
now, was done over again in five minutes, you'd never know the
difference
Oh, cuckoo, I wish you wouldn't
you're worse
than sums, you do so puzzle me. It's like what you said about nothing
being big or little, only it's worse. Where would all the days and hours
be if there was nothing but minutes? Oh, cuckoo, you said you'd amuse
me, and you do nothing but puzzle me
It was your own fault. You wouldn't get ready
_Now_, here goes! Flap and wish
Go on
ladies first
I don't care for it
it's all
the same, and there's nothing to see. I thought my aunts kept ever so
many beautiful things in here, and there's nothing
Come along, then
I didn't expect you'd care for the
palace, as you called it, much. Let us go out the other way
Oh, how lovely
It'll be like
walking along a rainbow. Cuckoo, come quick
Stop
we've a good way to go. There's no need to
walk. Palanquin
I know
It's exactly like the one that stands under a
glass shade on Lady Lavander's drawing-room mantelpiece. I wonder if it
is the very one? Fancy me being able to get _into_ it
What do they mean
Get in
Yes, I'm just going to get in
but what do _they_ mean when
they nod at me like that
They mean, of course, what I tell you --'Get in
Why don't they say so, then
Griselda, you have a _very_ great
Cuckoo
if you say that again, I'll jump out of the
palanquin and run away home to bed. Of course I've a great deal to
learn -- that's why I like to ask questions about everything I see. Now,
tell me where we are going
In the first place
are you comfortable
Very
What nice silk
I'd like a dress of it. I never
noticed that the palanquin was lined so nicely
for I
suppose it _is_ the one from Lady Lavander's mantelpiece? There couldn't
be two so exactly like each other
What a goose you are, my dear
Excuse me
I didn't mean
to hurt your feelings, but you won't let me say the other thing, you
know. The palanquin from Lady Lavander's! I should think not. You might
as well mistake one of those horrible paper roses that Dorcas sticks in
her vases for one of your aunt's Gloires de Dijon! The palanquin from
Lady Lavander's -- a clumsy human imitation not worth looking at
I didn't know
Do they make such beautiful
things in Mandarin Land
Of course
Will you please tell me where we are going
You'll see directly
not that I mind telling you.
There's to be a grand reception at one of the palaces to-night. I
thought you'd like to assist at it. It'll give you some idea of what a
palace is like. By-the-by, can you dance
A little
Ah, well, I dare say you will manage. I've ordered a court dress for
you. It will be all ready when we get there
Thank you
What do they mean
It's a royal salute
A salute
I thought that meant kissing or guns
Hush
you must be dressed now
They don't hurt me a bit
yet they didn't look the
least the shape of my foot
mandarins
Is he the king of the mandarins
Thank you
I can't dance _very_ well, but perhaps you won't
mind
so the mandarins can't be deaf, though they are dumb
which is one good thing about them
Cuckoo
Cuckoo
I
wish you would eat something. You'll be so tired and hungry
No, thank you
It isn't my way.
I hope you are enjoying yourself
Oh, _very_ much
I
Hush
They're very fond of good music, you see
and they don't often get it
And she is always beautiful,
      And always is eighteen
Cuckoo! cuckoo! cuckoo
Griselda, it's time to go
Oh dear, why
I'm not a bit tired. Why need we go yet
Obeying orders
Must I say good-bye to the king and all the people
Oh,
cuckoo
you've trod on my foot
I beg your pardon
I must take off my shoe; it does so hurt
Take it off, then
Are we going home in the pal
What could have made me fall asleep so all of a sudden
I wasn't the least sleepy at the mandarins' ball. What fun it was! I
believe that cuckoo made me fall asleep on purpose to make me fancy it
was a dream. _Was_ it a dream
Ah, Mr. Cuckoo
you meant to play me a trick, but you
haven't succeeded, you see
To think that I should have been dancing with you on last night
And yet the cuckoo says being big or little is all a
matter of fancy. I wonder what he'll think of to amuse me next
Look, Dorcas
Bless me, it's one of the shoes off the Chinese dolls in the saloon
How ever did you get that, missie? Your
aunts wouldn't be pleased
It just isn't one of the Chinese dolls' shoes, and if you don't believe
me, you can go and look for yourself
It's my very own
shoe, and it was given me to my own self
so very like
Miss Sybilla
I wonder what 'Miss Sybilla' _was_ like
I have a
good mind to ask the cuckoo. He seems to have known her very well
I suppose
he thinks the mandarins' ball was fun
enough to last me a good while. It really was very good-natured of him
to take me to it, so I mustn't grumble
It would be so dull
Please let me stay in the
ante-room, for all my things are there; and, then, there's the cuckoo
Troubles never come singly
No, indeed, they never come singly
I don't know even what to wish for
I don't feel
the least inclined to play at anything, and I shouldn't care to go to
the mandarins again. Oh, cuckoo, cuckoo, I am so dull; couldn't you
think of anything to amuse me
any o'clock
Cuckoo, cuckoo
Oh, cuckoo
I am so glad you have come at last. I _am_
so dull, and it has nothing to do with lessons this time. It's that I've
got such a bad cold, and my head's aching, and I'm so tired of reading,
all by myself
What would you like to do
You don't want to go to
see the mandarins again
Oh no; I couldn't dance
Or the mermaids down under the sea
Oh, dear, no
it would be far
too cold. I would just like to stay where I am, if some one would tell
me stories. I'm not even sure that I could listen to stories. What could
you do to amuse me, cuckoo
Would you like to see some pictures
I could show
you pictures without your taking any trouble
Oh yes, that would be beautiful
What pictures will
you show me? Oh, I know. I would like to see the place where you were
born -- where that very, very clever man made you and the clock, I mean
Your great-great-grandfather
Very well. Now,
Griselda, shut your eyes. First of all, I am going to sing
pictures
picture
Well, my darling, and are you all ready for your _fete_
Yes, dear grandfather; and isn't my dress lovely
I
should be _so_ happy if only you were coming too, and would get yourself
a beautiful velvet coat like Mynheer van Huyten
I have no time for such things, my darling
and besides,
I am too old. I must work -- work hard to make money for my pet when I am
gone, that she may not be dependent on the bounty of those English
sisters
But I won't care for money when you are gone, grandfather
I would rather just go on living in
this little house, and I am sure the neighbours would give me something
to eat, and then I could hear all your clocks ticking, and think of you.
I don't want you to sell all your wonderful things for money for me,
grandfather. They would remind me of you, and money wouldn't
Not all, Sybilla, not all
The best of all, the
_chef-d'oeuvre_ of my life, shall not be sold. It shall be yours, and
you will have in your possession a clock that crowned heads might seek
in vain to purchase
Do you mean the cuckoo clock
Yes, my darling, the cuckoo clock, the crowning work of my life -- a
clock that shall last long after I, and perhaps thou, my pretty child,
are crumbling into dust; a clock that shall last to tell my
great-grandchildren to many generations that the old Dutch mechanic was
not altogether to be despised
You are not to talk like that, little grandfather
I shall
teach my children and my grandchildren to be so proud of you -- oh, so
proud!-- as proud as I am of you, little grandfather
Gently, my darling
Kiss me once again, my pet, and then thou must go;
thy little friends will be waiting
Poor aunts
how old they have grown since
then
Well, Griselda
so you don't like to be told you are like your grandmother, eh
It is Sybilla singing
But I don't see that it matters if it was
If it
was a dream, the cuckoo sent it to me all the same, and I thank you very
much indeed, cuckoo
The last
picture was rather sad, but still it was very nice to see it, and I
thank you very much, and I'll never say again that I don't like to be
told I'm like my dear pretty grandmother
ways
I expect he hears me quite well
and even if he doesn't,
it's only civil to _try_ to thank him
My aunts must have come back
Well, my love
and how are you? Has the
time seemed very long while we were away
Oh no, thank you, Aunt Grizzel
not at all. I've
been quite happy, and my cold's ever so much better, and my headache's
_quite_ gone
Come, that is good news
Not that I'm exactly
_surprised_
for there really
is nothing like tansy tea for a feverish cold
Nothing
there really is nothing like it
Aunt Grizzel
was my
grandmother quite young when she died
Yes, my love, very young
And was her husband _very_ sorry
Heart-broken
He did not live long after, and then
you know, my dear, your father was sent to us to take care of. And now
he has sent _you_ -- the third generation of young creatures confided to
our care
Yes
My grandmother died in the summer, when all the
flowers were out; and she was buried in a pretty country place, wasn't
she
Yes
And when she was a little girl she lived with her grandfather, the old
Dutch mechanic
He was a nice old man; and how clever of
him to have made the cuckoo clock, and such lots of other pretty,
wonderful things. I don't wonder little Sybilla loved him; he was so
good to her. But, oh, Aunt Grizzel, _how_ pretty she was when she was a
young lady! That time that she danced with my grandfather in the great
saloon. And how very nice you and Aunt Tabitha looked then, too
Your papa told you all these old stories, I suppose, my dear
Oh no
Papa never told me anything like
that. Dorcas told me a very little, I think; at least, she made me want
to know, and I asked the cuckoo, and then, you see, he showed me it all.
It was so pretty
Tabitha, my dear
do you hear
Tabitha
it is wonderful!
Ah, yes, how true it is, Tabitha, that 'there are more things in heaven
and earth than are dreamt of in our philosophy
and from the very first, Tabitha, we
always had a feeling that the child was strangely like Sybilla
Strangely like Sybilla
May she grow up as good, if not quite as beautiful -- _that_ we could
scarcely expect; and may she be longer spared to those that love her
See, Tabitha, the dear child is
fast asleep. How sweet she looks! I trust by to-morrow morning she will
be quite herself again: her cold is so much better
For now and then there comes a day
    When everything goes wrong
to-morrow morning
common sense
Tabitha
Tabitha, my dear, I think
the child is quite well again now. It seems to me it would be well to
send a note to good Mr. Kneebreeches, to say that she will be able to
resume her studies the day after to-morrow
The day after to-morrow
The day after
to-morrow -- to say that she will be able to resume her studies the day
after to-morrow -- oh yes, certainly. It would be very well to send a note
to good Mr. Kneebreeches, my dear Grizzel
I thought you would agree with me
It is such a satisfaction to consult together
about what we do. I was only a little afraid of being hard upon the
child, but as you agree with me, I have no longer any misgiving
Any misgiving, oh dear, no
You have no reason
for any misgiving, I am sure, my dear Grizzel
I have written to request Mr. Kneebreeches to resume his instructions
to-morrow
I think you are quite well again now, so
Dorcas must wake you at your usual hour
_Oh_, Aunt Grizzel
Well, my dear
I _wish_ you wouldn't make me begin lessons again just yet. I _know_
they'll make my head ache again, and Mr. Kneebreeches will be _so_
cross. I know he will, and he is so horrid when he is cross
Hush
obeying orders
Cuckoo! cuckoo!
cuckoo
What is the matter, my dear
Is the jelly not to
your liking
I don't know
a black frost
I hate winter
I hate winter, and I hate lessons. I would give
up being a _person_ in a minute if I might be a -- a -- what would I best
like to be? Oh yes, I know -- a butterfly. Butterflies never see winter,
and they _certainly_ never have any lessons or any kind of work to do. I
hate _must_-ing to do anything
Cuckoo
I don't care what you think, cuckoo
I know
you came out on purpose just now, but I don't care. I _do_ hate winter,
and I _do_ hate lessons, and I _do_ think it would be nicer to be a
butterfly than a little girl
so tired
tirers
I am by no means sure that I have done right in recalling Mr.
Kneebreeches so soon, Sister Tabitha
Oh yes, Sister Grizzel, you may be sure
you have done right in recalling Mr. Kneebreeches
I am glad you think so
I was only distressed to see the child looking so white and
tired
I wonder
I wonder if it really _is_ morning. I
should like to get up early -- I went so early to bed. I think I'll just
jump out of bed and open a chink of the shutters. I'll see at once if
it's nearly morning, by the look of the sky
I had better go back to bed
but I am not a bit
sleepy
Can it be dead
Poor little bird, how cold you must be
Cuckoo,
cuckoo -- cold, did you say, Griselda? Not so very, thank you
It's _you_, is it
Of course it is, and why shouldn't it be? You're not generally so sorry
to see me. What's the matter
Nothing's the matter
only, you see, if I had known it was _you_
You wouldn't have clambered up and hurt your poor fingers in opening
the window if you had known it was me -- is that it, eh
eh
No, I wouldn't have _needed_ to open the window
_You_ can
get in or out whenever you like; you're not like a real bird. Of
course, you were just tricking me, sitting out there and pretending to
be a starved robin
Dear me, dear me
You have a great deal to
complain of, Griselda. Your time and strength must be very valuable for
you to regret so much having wasted a little of them on me
Child
you are very
foolish. Is a kind thought or action _ever_ wasted? Can your eyes see
what such good seeds grow into? They have wings, Griselda -- kindnesses
have wings and roots, remember that -- wings that never droop, and roots
that never die. What do you think I came and sat outside your window
for
Cuckoo
I am very sorry
Very well
we'll leave it for the present. I have
something else to see about. Are you cold, Griselda
_Very_
I would very much like to go back to bed,
cuckoo, if you please; and there's plenty of room for you too, if you'd
like to come in and get warm
There are other ways of getting warm besides going to bed
A nice brisk walk, for instance. I was going to ask you to come
out into the garden with me
Out into the garden! _Oh_, cuckoo
how can you think
of such a thing? Such a freezing cold night. Oh no, indeed, cuckoo, I
couldn't possibly
Very well, Griselda
if you haven't yet learnt to
trust me, there's no more to be said. Good-night
by the keyhole, I dare say
he can
'scrooge' himself up any way
Cuckoo, cuckoo
It came so suddenly
some one must have lighted
a lamp in there all at once. But it can't be a lamp, it's too bright
for a lamp. It's more like the sun; but how ever could the sun be
shining in a room in the middle of the night? What shall I do? Shall I
open the door and peep in
Cuckoo, cuckoo
Can it be a trick of the cuckoo's to get me out into the garden
Cuckoo, cuckoo
He's waiting for me. I _will_ trust him
He has
always been good and kind, and it's horrid of me to think he's going to
trick me
Shut your eyes for a minute, Griselda
the light will dazzle you at first. Shut them, and I will brush
them with a little daisy dew, to strengthen them
I didn't know _daisies_ had any scent
Perhaps you didn't. You forget, Griselda, that you have a great
Oh, please don't, cuckoo. Please, please don't, _dear_ cuckoo
Don't say that, and I'll promise to believe
whatever you tell me. And how soon may I open my eyes, please, cuckoo
Turn round slowly, three times. That will give the dew time to take
effect
Here goes -- one -- two -- three. There, now
I'd be a butterfly
Cuckoo
I thank you _so_ much. This _is_ fairyland, at
last
No, Griselda
this is only butterfly-land
_Butterfly_-land
Well
it's where you were wishing to be yesterday,
isn't it
yesterday
It's a beautiful place, whatever it is
and I'm sure,
cuckoo, I'm _very_ much obliged to you for bringing me here. Now may I
run about and look at everything? How delicious it is to feel the warm
sunshine again! I didn't know how cold I was. Look, cuckoo, my toes and
fingers are quite blue; they're only just beginning to come right again.
I suppose the sun always shines here. How nice it must be to be a
butterfly; don't you think so, cuckoo? Nothing to do but fly about
Griselda
if you want me to answer your questions,
you must ask them one at a time. You may run about and look at
everything if you like, but you had better not be in such a hurry. You
will make a great many mistakes if you are -- you have made some already
How
_Have_ the butterflies nothing to do but fly about? Watch them
They do seem to be doing something
but I can't
think what. They seem to be nibbling at the flowers, and then flying
away something like bees gathering honey. _Butterflies_ don't gather
honey, cuckoo
No
They are filling their paint-boxes
What _do_ you mean
Come and see
mixty-maxty
How beautifully the flowers are planned
Is
it just to look pretty, or why
It saves time
The fetch-and-carry butterflies
know exactly where to go to for the tint the world-flower-painters
want
Who are the fetch-and-carry butterflies, and who are the
world-flower-painters
Wait a bit and you'll see, and use your eyes
It'll do your tongue no harm to have a rest now and then
What's the matter
They work very hard
It's a busy time of year
Come in
To fill his paint-box again
But what _are_ they painting, cuckoo
All the flowers in the world
Autumn, winter, and
spring, they're hard at work. It's only just for the three months of
summer that the butterflies have any holiday, and then a few stray ones
now and then wander up to the world, and people talk about 'idle
butterflies'! And even then it isn't true that they are idle. They go up
to take a look at the flowers, to see how their work has turned out, and
many a damaged petal they repair, or touch up a faded tint, though no
one ever knows it
_I_ know it now
I will never talk about idle
butterflies again -- never. But, cuckoo, do they paint all the flowers
_here_, too? What a _fearful_ lot they must have to do
No
the flowers down here are fairy flowers. They
never fade or die, they are always just as you see them. But the colours
of your flowers are all taken from them, as you have seen. Of course
they don't look the same up there
the coarse air and the ugly
things about must take the bloom off. The wild flowers do the best, to
my thinking; people don't meddle with them in their stupid, clumsy
way
But how do they get the flowers sent up to the world, cuckoo
They're packed up, of course, and taken up at night when all of you are
asleep
They're painted on elastic stuff, you see,
which fits itself as the plant grows. Why, if your eyes were as they are
usually, Griselda, you couldn't even _see_ the petals the butterflies
are painting now
And the packing up
do the butterflies do that too
No
the fairies look after that
How wonderful
Are you hungry, Griselda
Not so very
It's just as well perhaps that you're not
for I don't
know that you'd be much the better for dinner here
Why not
What do they have for dinner?
Honey? I like that very well, spread on the top of bread-and-butter, of
course -- I don't think I should care to eat it alone
You won't get any honey
Those were royal messengers
They have come with a message from the king and queen to invite us to
a banquet which is to be held in honour of your visit
What fun
Do let's go at once, cuckoo. But, oh dear
me
I was forgetting,
cuckoo. I can't go to the banquet. I have nothing on but my night-gown.
I never thought of it before, for I'm not a bit cold
Never mind
I'll soon have that put to rights
_ruche_
goffered
Now
now, Griselda,
come and look at yourself
It _is_ lovely
But, cuckoo, I'm just thinking -- how
shall I possibly be able to sit down without crushing ever so many
Bless you, you needn't trouble about that
the
butterflies are quite able to take care of themselves. You don't suppose
you are the first little girl they have ever made a dress for
gingerly
Are those the king and queen
Yes
Do you admire them
I should rather think I did
But, cuckoo, do they
never do anything but lie there in the sunshine
Oh, you silly girl
always jumping at
conclusions. No, indeed, that is not how they manage things in
butterfly-land. The king and queen have worked harder than any other
butterflies. They are chosen every now and then, out of all the others,
as being the most industrious and the cleverest of all the
world-flower-painters, and then they are allowed to rest, and are fed on
the finest essences, so that they grow as splendid as you see. But even
now they are not idle; they superintend all the work that is done, and
choose all the new colours
Dear me
how clever they must be
Are they going away
Oh no
they are welcoming you. Hold out your hands
You _do_ look nice now
but it's time for the feast to
begin, as it won't do for us to be late
What are they doing, cuckoo
that's not _eating_
It's their kind of eating
They don't require any other
kind of food than a sniff of perfume; and as there are perfumes
extracted from every flower in butterfly-land, and there are far more
flowers than you could count between now and Christmas, you must allow
there is plenty of variety of dishes
Um-m
I suppose there is. But all the same, cuckoo,
it's a very good thing I'm not hungry, isn't it? May I pour the scent on
my pocket-handkerchief when it comes round to me? I have my handkerchief
here, you see. Isn't it nice that I brought it? It was under my pillow,
and I wrapped it round my hand to open the shutter, for the hook
scratched it once
You may pour one drop on your handkerchief
but not
more. I shouldn't like the butterflies to think you greedy
I am so tired of the feast
Do let us do something else,
cuckoo
It is getting rather late
But see, Griselda, they
are going to have an air-dance now
What's that
Look, and you'll see
Come up on to the bank
you'll see them
better
It's like a kaleidoscope
and now it's like those
twisty-twirly dissolving views that papa took me to see once. It's
_just_ like them. Oh, how pretty! Cuckoo, are they doing it all on
purpose to please me
A good deal
Stand up and clap your hands loud three
times, to show them you're pleased
They're going to kiss you, Griselda
Cuckoo, cuckoo
they'll suffocate me. Oh, cuckoo
Shut your eyes, and clap your hands loud, very loud
Cuckoo, cuckoo
Miss Grizzel said I was to wake you at your usual time this morning,
missie
I hope you don't feel too tired to get up
Tired! I should think not
I was awake this morning
ages before you, I can tell you, my dear Dorcas. Come here for a minute,
Dorcas, please
There now, sniff my handkerchief. What do
you think of that
It's beautiful
It's out of the big blue chinay bottle
on your auntie's table, isn't it, missie
Stuff and nonsense
it's scent of my own, Dorcas.
Aunt Grizzel never had any like it in her life. There now! Please give
me my slippers, I want to get up and look over my lessons for Mr.
Kneebreeches before he comes. Dear me
how pretty my feet did look with the blue
butterfly shoes! It was very good of the cuckoo to take me there, but I
don't think I shall ever wish to be a butterfly again, now I know how
hard they work! But I'd like to do my lessons well to-day. I fancy it'll
please the dear old cuckoo
Who comes from the world of flowers?
    Daisy and crocus, and sea-blue bell,
    And violet shrinking in dewy cell --
    Sly cells that know the secrets of night,
    When earth is bathed in fairy light --
      Scarlet, and blue, and golden flowers
charminger
You may _scent_ them, my dear
but I cannot allow anything more
I suppose
he thinks I don't need amusing, now that the
fine days are come and I can play in the garden; and certainly, if I
had _any one_ to play with, the garden would be perfectly lovely
Cuckoo, cuckoo
Can that be the cuckoo
it must be my cuckoo
He must be coming out
to speak to me. How funny! I have never seen him by daylight
Cuckoo, cuckoo
Cuckoo
do come and talk to me. It's such a long time
since I have seen you, and I have nobody to play with
Unkind cuckoo
He is tricking me, I do believe; and
to-day too, just when I was so dull and lonely
Where are that cuckoo? Does _you_ know
WHERE ARE THAT CUCKOO
Who are you
What's your name, and what do you
want
My name's Master Phil, and I want that cuckoo
He camed up this way. I'm sure he did, for he called me all the
way
He's not here
and this is my aunts'
garden. No one is allowed to come here but friends of theirs. You had
better go home; and you have torn your clothes so
This aren't a garden
this are a wood. There are blue-bells and primroses here,
and that shows it aren't a garden -- not anybody's garden, I mean, with
walls round, for nobody to come in
But it _is_
If it isn't a garden it's _grounds_, private grounds, and nobody
should come without leave. This path leads down to the wood, and there's
a door in the wall at the bottom to get into the lane. You may go down
that way, little boy. No one comes scrambling up the way you did
But I want to find the cuckoo
I do so want to
find the cuckoo
How old are you
Five and a bit. I had a birthday after the summer, and if I'm good,
nurse says perhaps I'll have one after next summer too. Do you ever have
birthdays
Nurse says she used to
when she was young, but she never has any now
_Have_ you a nurse
Of course I have a nurse, and a mother too
Haven't you? Perhaps
you're too big, though. People leave off having nurses and mothers when
they're big, don't they? Just like birthdays. But _I_ won't. I won't
never leave off having a mother, any way. I don't care so much about
nurse and birthdays, not _kite_ so much. Did you care when you had to
leave off, when you got too big
I hadn't to leave off because I got big
I left
off when I was much littler than you
My mother died
I'm werry sorry
But perhaps you've a nice nurse. My
nurse is rather nice; but she _will_ 'cold me to-day, won't she
These
are my very oldestest things; that's a good thing, isn't it? Nurse says
I don't look like Master Phil in these, but when I have on my blue
welpet, then I look like Master Phil. I shall have my blue welpet when
mother comes
Is your mother away
Oh yes, she's been away a long time; so nurse came here to take care of
me at the farmhouse, you know. Mother was ill, but she's better now, and
some day she'll come too
Do you like being at the farmhouse? Have you anybody to play with
I never have anybody to play with
I'd like to play with you if you're not too big. And do you think you
could help me to find the cuckoo
What do you know about the cuckoo
He called me
he called me lots of times; and to-day nurse
was busy, so I thought I'd come. And do you know
I do believe the cuckoo's a fairy, and when I find him
I'm going to ask him to show me the way to fairyland
He says we must all find the way ourselves
_Does_ he
Do you know him, then?
and have you asked him? Oh, do tell me
You couldn't understand
Some
day perhaps I'll tell you -- I mean if ever I see you again
But I may see you again
You'll let me come, won't you? I
like to talk about fairies, and nurse doesn't understand. And if the
cuckoo knows you, perhaps that's why he called me to come to play with
you
How did he call you
First
it was in the night. I was asleep, and I
had been wishing I had somebody to play with, and then I d'eamed of the
cuckoo -- such a nice d'eam. And when I woke up I heard him calling me,
and I wasn't d'eaming then. And then when I was in the field he called
me, but I _couldn't_ find him, and nurse said 'Nonsense.' And to-day he
called me again, so I camed up through the bushes. And mayn't I come
again? Perhaps if we both tried together we could find the way to
fairyland. Do you think we could
I don't know
There's a great deal to learn first, the cuckoo says
Have you learnt a great deal
_I_ don't know scarcely
nothing. Mother was ill such a long time before she went away, but I
know she wanted me to learn to read books. But nurse is too old to teach
me
Shall I teach you
I can bring some of my old books
and teach you here after I have done my own lessons
And then mother _would_ be surprised when she comes back
Oh, _do_. And when I've learnt to read a
great deal, do you think the cuckoo would show us the way to fairyland
I don't think it was that sort of learning he meant
But I dare say that would help. I _think_
I
_think_ he means mostly learning to be very good -- very, _very_ good, you
know
Gooder than you
Oh dear, yes; lots and lots gooder than me
_I_ think you're very good
Gooder than mother
I don't know your mother, so how can I tell how good she is
_I_ can tell you
She is just as good as -- as
good as -- as good as _good_. That's what she is
You mean she couldn't be better
Yes, that'll do, if you like. Would that be good enough for us to be,
do you think
We must ask the cuckoo
But I'm sure it would be a
good thing for you to learn to read. You must ask your nurse to let you
come here every afternoon that it's fine, and I'll ask my aunt
I needn't ask nurse
she'll never know where I
am, and I needn't tell her. She doesn't care what I do, except tearing
my clothes; and when she scolds me, _I_ don't care
_That_ isn't good, Phil
You'll never be as
good as good if you speak like that
What should I say, then? Tell me
You should ask nurse to let you come to play with me, and tell her I'm
much bigger than you, and I won't let you tear your clothes. And you
should tell her you're very sorry you've torn them to-day
Very well
I'll say that. But, oh see
there's a field mouse! If only I could catch him
You're such a little boy
how do you know so much about
flowers
I've had no one else to play with
And then, you
know, the fairies are so fond of them
Now you can find your way home without scrambling through any more
bushes, can't you, Master Phil
Yes, thank you, and I'll come again to that place to-morrow afternoon,
shall I
I'll know when -- after I've had my dinner and
raced three times round the big field, then it'll be time. That's how it
was to-day
I should think it would do if you _walked_ three times -- or twice if you
like -- round the field. It isn't a good thing to race just when you've
had your dinner
And you mustn't try to come
if it isn't fine, for my aunts won't let me go out if it rains even the
tiniest bit And of course you must ask your nurse's leave
Very well
I'll try to remember
all those things. I'm so glad you'll play with me again; and if you see
the cuckoo, please thank him
_Helper_. Well, but if it was all dream, it would be the same as if
     it was all real, would it not?

     "_Keeper_. Yes, I see. I mean, Sir, I do _not_ see
just had her dinner
What a good thing it was I didn't make Phil run away before I found out
what a nice little boy he was
I must look out my
old reading books to-night. I shall so like teaching him, poor little
boy, and the cuckoo will be pleased at my doing something useful, I'm
sure
Sit down, Dorcas, and have some more tea, do
It
looks ever so much more comfortable, and I'm sure you could eat a
little more if you tried, whether you've had your tea in the kitchen or
not. I'm _fearfully_ hungry, I can tell you. You'll have to cut a whole
lot more bread and butter, and not 'ladies' slices' either
How your tongue does go, to be sure, Miss Griselda
And why shouldn't it
It doesn't do it any
harm. But oh, Dorcas, I've had such fun this afternoon -- really, you
couldn't guess what I've been doing
Very likely not, missie
But you might try to guess. Oh no, I don't think you need -- guessing
takes such a time, and I want to tell you. Just fancy, Dorcas, I've been
playing with a little boy in the wood
Playing with a little boy, Miss Griselda
Yes, and he's coming again to-morrow, and the day after, and every
day, I dare say
He _is_ such a nice little boy
But, missie
Well? What's the matter? You needn't look like that -- as if I had done
something naughty
But you'll tell your aunt, missie
Of course
Of course; why shouldn't I? I must ask her
to give the little boy leave to come into _our_ grounds; and I told the
little boy to be sure to tell his nurse, who takes care of him, about
his playing with me
His nurse
Then he must be
quite a little boy, perhaps Miss Grizzel would not object so much in
that case
Why should she object at all? She might know I wouldn't want to play
with a naughty rude boy
She thinks all boys rude and naughty, I'm afraid, missie
All, that is to say, excepting your dear papa. But then, of course, she
had the bringing up of _him_ in her own way from the beginning
Well, I'll ask her, any way
and if she says I'm not
to play with him, I shall think -- I know what I shall _think_ of Aunt
Grizzel, whether I _say_ it or not
Be careful, missie, now do, there's a dear good girl
Aunt Grizzel
Aunt Grizzel, when I was out in the garden to-day -- down the wood-path,
I mean -- I met a little boy, and he played with me, and I want to know if
he may come every day to play with me
Oh yes, you may have the little boy to play
with you whenever you like
flabbergasted
Playing with a boy
A boy in my grounds, and
you, my niece, to have played with him
Yes
and I want to play with him again
Griselda
I am too astonished to say more at present.
Go to bed
Why should I go to bed? It is not my bed-time
What have I done to be sent to bed as if I were in disgrace
Go to bed
I will speak to you to-morrow
You are very unfair and unjust
That's all the good of being honest and telling everything. I
might have played with the little boy every day for a month and you
would never have known, if I hadn't told you
Oh, missie, missie
it's just what I was afraid of
Already
She was never so violent before. Can one
afternoon's companionship with rudeness have already contaminated her?
Already, Tabitha -- can it be so
Already
already
Yet
it is true what
the child said. She might have deceived us. Have I been hard upon her,
Sister Tabitha
Hard upon her! Sister Grizzel
no, certainly not. For once, Sister Grizzel, I disagree with
you. Hard upon her! Certainly not
I thought you would not mind having me, instead of Martha, to-night,
ma'am
for I did so want to speak to you about Miss
Griselda. The poor, dear young lady has gone to bed so very unhappy
But do you know what she has done, Dorcas
Admitted a _boy_, a rude, common, impertinent _boy_, into my precincts,
and played with him -- with a _boy_, Dorcas
Yes, ma'am
I know all about it, ma'am. Miss Griselda
has told me all. But if you would allow me to give an opinion, it isn't
quite so bad. He's quite a little boy, ma'am -- between five and six -- only
just about the age Miss Griselda's dear papa was when he first came to
us, and, by all I can hear, quite a little gentleman
A little gentleman
and not six years old!
That is less objectionable than I expected. What is his name, as you
know so much, Dorcas
Master Phil
That is what he told Miss Griselda, and
she never thought to ask him more. But I'll tell you how we could get to
hear more about him, I think, ma'am. From what Miss Griselda says, I
believe he is staying at Mr. Crouch's farm, and that, you know, ma'am,
belongs to my Lady Lavander, though it is a good way from Merrybrow
Hall. My lady is pretty sure to know about the child, for she knows all
that goes on among her tenants, and I remember hearing that a little
gentleman and his nurse had come to Mr. Crouch's to lodge for six
months
Thank you, Dorcas
You have behaved with your usual discretion. I shall drive
over to Merrybrow to-morrow, and make inquiry. And you may tell Miss
Griselda in the morning what I purpose doing; but tell her also that,
as a punishment for her rudeness and ill-temper, she must have breakfast
in her own room to-morrow, and not see me till I send for her. Had she
restrained her temper and explained the matter, all this distress might
have been saved
to-morrow morning
Are you awake, missie
Yes
Is it you, cuckoo? I'm quite awake
Bless the child
how her head does run on
Miss Sybilla's cuckoo. It's really wonderful. There's more in such
things than some people think
It's Dorcas, missie. No fairy, only old Dorcas come to comfort you a
bit. Listen, missie. Your auntie is going over to Merrybrow Hall
to-morrow to inquire about this little Master Phil from my Lady
Lavander, for we think it's at one of her ladyship's farms that he and
his nurse are staying, and if she hears that he's a nice-mannered little
gentleman, and comes of good parents -- why, missie, there's no saying but
that you'll get leave to play with him as much as you like
But not to-morrow, Dorcas
Aunt Grizzel never goes to
Merrybrow till the afternoon. She won't be back in time for me to play
with Phil to-morrow
No, but next day, perhaps
Oh, but that won't do
Poor
little Phil will be coming up to the wood-path _to-morrow_, and if he
doesn't find me, he'll be _so_ unhappy -- perhaps he'll never come again
if I don't meet him to-morrow
Go to sleep, missie
and don't think anything more
about it till to-morrow It'll be all right, you'll see
You are very kind, Dorcas
I don't mean to be cross to
_you_; but I can't bear to think of poor little Phil. Perhaps he'll sit
down on my mossy stone and cry. Poor little Phil
Cuckoo
is that you
Cuckoo, cuckoo
Well, Griselda
and how are you? It's a good while since we
have had any fun together
That's not _my_ fault
That's
_certainly_ not my fault
I never said it was
Why will you jump at
conclusions so? It's a very bad habit, for very often you jump _over_
them, you see, and go too far. One should always _walk_ up to
conclusions, very slowly and evenly, right foot first, then left, one
with another -- that's the way to get where you want to go, and feel sure
of your ground. Do you see
I don't know whether I do or not, and I'm not going to speak to you if
you go on at me like that. You might see I don't want to be lectured
when I am so unhappy
What are you unhappy about
About Phil, of course. I won't tell you, for I believe you know
Wasn't it you that sent him to play with me? I was so
pleased, and I thought it was very kind of you; but it's all spoilt
now
But I heard Dorcas saying that your aunt is going over to consult my
Lady Lavander about it
It'll be all right; you
needn't be in such low spirits about nothing
Were you in the room _then_
How funny you are,
cuckoo. But it isn't all right. Don't you see, poor little Phil will be
coming up the wood-path to-morrow afternoon to meet me, and I won't be
there! I can't bear to think of it
Is that all
It really is extraordinary how some
people make troubles out of nothing! We can easily tell Phil not to come
till the day after. Come along
Come along
what do you mean
Oh, I forgot
You don't understand. Put out your
hand. There, do you feel me
Yes
Yes, I feel you
Well, then
put your arms round my neck, and hold me
firm. I'll lift you up
How _can_ you talk such nonsense, cuckoo
Why, one of
my little fingers would clasp your neck. How can I put my arms round
it
Try
That's right
Are you all right
You're not afraid of falling off
Oh no
not a bit
You needn't be
for you couldn't if you tried. I'm
going on, then
Where to
Up the chimney first
But there'll never be room
I might _perhaps_ crawl up
like a sweep, hands and knees, you know, like going up a ladder. But
stretched out like this -- it's just as if I were lying on a sofa -- I
_couldn't_ go up the chimney
Couldn't you
We'll see. _I_ intend to go, any way,
and to take you with me. Shut your eyes -- one, two, three -- here
goes -- we'll be up the chimney before you know
Well, wasn't that well done? Open your eyes and look about you
Cuckoo
I don't understand. Is it I that have grown little,
or you that have grown big
Whichever you please
You have forgotten. I told you
long ago it is all a matter of fancy
Yes, if everything grew little _together_
but it
isn't everything. It's just you or me, or both of us. No, it can't be
both of us. And I don't think it can be me, for if any of me had grown
little all would, and my eyes haven't grown little, for everything looks
as big as usual, only _you_ a great deal bigger. My eyes can't have
grown bigger without the rest of me, surely, for the moon looks just the
same. And I must have grown little, or else we couldn't have got up the
chimney. Oh, cuckoo, you have put all my thinking into such a muddle
Never mind
It'll show you how little consequence
big and little are of. Make yourself comfortable all the same. Are you
all right? Shut your eyes if you like. I'm going pretty fast
Where to
To Phil, of course
What a bad memory you have! Are
you comfortable
_Very_, thank you
That'll do, thank you. Don't throttle me, if it's quite the same to
you
Here goes -- one, two, three
Where are we
We've just come _down_ a chimney again
Open your
eyes and clamber down off my back, but don't speak loud, or you'll waken
him, and that wouldn't do. There you are -- the moonlight's coming in
nicely at the window -- you can see your way
Don't wake him
but whisper what you want to say
into his ear, as soon as I have called him. He'll understand; he's
accustomed to my ways
Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo. Listen, Phil
He thinks he's dreaming, I suppose
Phil, dear, don't come to play with me to-morrow, for I can't come. But
come the day after. I'll be at the wood-path then
Welly well
Phil's so sleepy
That'll do
Come along, Griselda
Shut your eyes and put your arms round my neck again
Where shall we go to now
Or would you rather go home? Are
you tired
Tired
I should rather think not. How could I be
tired, cuckoo
Very well, don't excite yourself about nothing, whatever you do
Say where you'd like to go
How can I
You know far more nice places than I do
You don't care to go back to the mandarins, or the butterflies, I
suppose
TIRED! HOW COULD I BE TIRED, CUCKOO
No, thank you
I'd like something new. And I'm not
sure that I care for seeing any more countries of that kind, unless
you could take me to the _real_ fairyland
_I_ can't do that, you know
Cuckoo
take me to the sea. It's _such_ a time since I
saw the sea. I can fancy I hear it; do take me to see it
That after supper time has come,
      And silver dews the meadow steep.
    And all is silent in the home,
      And even nurses are asleep,
    That be it late, or be it soon,
    Upon this lovely night in June
    They both will step into the moon
Very well
You would like to look about you a little
on the way, perhaps, Griselda, as we shall not be going down chimneys,
or anything of that kind just at present
Yes
I think I should. I'm rather tired of shutting my
eyes, and I'm getting quite accustomed to flying about with you,
cuckoo
Turn on your side, then
and you won't have to twist
your neck to see over my shoulder. Are you comfortable now? And,
by-the-by, as you may be cold, just feel under my left wing. You'll find
the feather mantle there, that you had on once before. Wrap it round
you. I tucked it in at the last moment, thinking you might want it
Oh, you dear, kind cuckoo
Yes, I've found it. I'll
tuck it all round me like a rug -- that's it. I _am_ so warm now, cuckoo
Here goes, then
How lovely the stars are, cuckoo
Is it true they're all
great, big _suns_? I'd rather they weren't. I like to think of them as
nice, funny little things
They're not all suns
Not all those you're looking
at now
I like the twinkling ones best
They look so
good-natured. Are they _all_ twirling about always, cuckoo? Mr.
Kneebreeches has just begun to teach me astronomy, and _he_ says they
are; but I'm not at all sure that he knows much about it
He's quite right all the same
Oh dear me! How tired they must be, then
Do they
never rest just for a minute
Never
Why not
Obeying orders
What's the use of it
It would be just as nice if they
stood still now and then
Would it
I know some body who would soon find
fault if they did. What would you say to no summer; no day, or no night,
whichever it happened not to be, you see; nothing growing, and nothing
to eat before long? That's what it would be if they stood still, you
see, because
Thank you, cuckoo
It's very nice to hear
you -- I mean, very dreadful to think of, but I don't want you to explain.
I'll ask Mr. Kneebreeches when I'm at my lessons. You might tell me one
thing, however. What's at the other side of the moon
There's a variety of opinions
What are they? Tell me the funniest
Some say all the unfinished work of the world is kept there
_That's_ not funny
What a messy place it must be!
Why, even _my_ unfinished work makes quite a heap. I don't like that
opinion at all, cuckoo. Tell me another
I _have_ heard
that among the places there you
would find the country of the little black dogs. You know what sort of
creatures those are
Yes, I suppose so
There are a good many of them in this world, as of course you know
But up there, they are much worse than here. When
a child has made a great pet of one down here, I've heard tell the
fairies take him up there when his parents and nurses think he's
sleeping quietly in his bed, and make him work hard all night, with his
own particular little black dog on his back. And it's so dreadfully
heavy -- for every time he takes it on his back down here it grows a pound
heavier up there -- that by morning the child is quite worn out. I dare
say you've noticed how haggard and miserable some ill-tempered children
get to look -- now you'll know the reason
Thank you, cuckoo
but I can't say I like this
opinion about the other side of the moon any better than the first. If
you please, I would rather not talk about it any more
Oh, but it's not so bad an idea after all
Lots of
children, they say, get quite cured in the country of the little black
dogs. It's this way -- for every time a child refuses to take the dog on
his back down here it grows a pound lighter up there, so at last any
sensible child learns how much better it is to have nothing to say to it
at all, and gets out of the way of it, you see. Of course, there _are_
children whom nothing would cure, I suppose. What becomes of them I
really can't say. Very likely they get crushed into pancakes by the
weight of the dogs at last, and then nothing more is ever heard of
them
Horrid
Don't let's talk about it any
more, cuckoo; tell me your _own_ opinion about what there really is on
the other side of the moon
Would you like to see for yourself, Griselda
There would be
about time to do it
and it would fulfil her
other wish, too
See the moon for myself, do you mean
I should rather think I would. Will you really take me there,
cuckoo
To the other side
I couldn't take you to this
side
Why not? Not that I'd care to go to this side as much as to the other;
for, of course, we can _see_ this side from here. But I'd like to know
why you couldn't take me there
For _reasons_
I'll give you one if you like.
If I took you to this side of the moon you wouldn't be yourself when you
got there
Who would I be, then
Griselda
I told you once that there are a great
many things you don't know. Now, I'll tell you something more. There are
a great many things you're not _intended_ to know
Very well
But do tell me when you're going on again,
and where you are going to take me to. There's no harm my asking that
No
I'm going on immediately, and I'm going to take
you where you wanted to go to, only you must shut your eyes again, and
lie perfectly still without talking, for I must put on steam -- a good
deal of steam -- and I can't talk to you. Are you all right
All right
Cuckoo, cuckoo; wake up, Griselda
Where am I, cuckoo
Where you wished to be
Look about you and see
What's the matter
You have the mantle on -- you're
not cold
No
I'm not cold; but somehow, cuckoo, I feel a little
frightened. The sea is so strange, and so dreadfully big; and the light
is so queer, too. What is the light, cuckoo? It isn't moonlight, is it
Not exactly
You can't both have your cake and eat
it, Griselda. Look up at the sky. There's no moon there, is there
No
but what lots of stars, cuckoo. The light comes
from them, I suppose? And where's the sun, cuckoo? Will it be rising
soon? It isn't always like this up here, is it
Bless you, no
There's sun enough, and rather too
much, sometimes. How would you like a day a fortnight long, and nights
to match? If it had been daytime here just now, I couldn't have brought
you. It's just about the very middle of the night now, and in about a
week of _your_ days the sun will begin to rise, because, you see
Oh, _dear_ cuckoo, please don't explain
I'll promise
to ask Mr. Kneebreeches, I will indeed. In fact, he was telling me
something just like it to-day or yesterday -- which should I say?-- at my
astronomy lesson. And that makes it so strange that you should have
brought me up here to-night to see for myself, doesn't it, cuckoo
An odd coincidence
What _would_ Mr. Kneebreeches think if I told him where I had been
Only, you see, cuckoo, I never tell anybody about
what I see when I am with you
No
better not. ('Not that you could if you
tried,' he added to himself.) You're not frightened now, Griselda, are
you
No, I don't think I am
But, cuckoo, isn't this sea
_awfully_ big
Pretty well
Just half, or nearly half, the size of
the moon; and, no doubt, Mr. Kneebreeches has told you that the moon's
diameter and circumference are respec
Oh _don't_, cuckoo
I want to
enjoy myself, and not to have lessons. Tell me something funny, cuckoo.
Are there any mermaids in the moon-sea
Not exactly
What a stupid way to answer
There's no sense in that;
there either must be or must not be. There couldn't be half mermaids
I don't know about that
They might have been
here once and have left their tails behind them, like Bopeep's sheep,
you know; and some day they might be coming to find them again, you
know. That would do for 'not exactly,' wouldn't it
Cuckoo, you're laughing at me
Tell me, are there any
mermaids, or fairies, or water-sprites, or any of those sort of
creatures here
I must still say 'not exactly
There are beings
here, or rather there have been, and there may be again; but you,
Griselda, can know no more than this
eerie
It's a dreadfully long way from home, any way
I feel as
if, when I go back, I shall perhaps find I have been away fifty years or
so, like the little boy in the fairy story. Cuckoo, I think I would like
to go home. Mayn't I get on your back again
Presently
Don't be uneasy, Griselda. Perhaps I'll
take you home by a short cut
Was ever any child here before
Yes
And did they get safe home again
Quite
It's so silly of you, Griselda, to have all
these ideas still about far and near, and big and little, and long and
short, after all I've taught you and all you've seen
I'm very sorry
but you see, cuckoo, I can't
help it. I suppose I'm made so
Perhaps
Look over there,
Griselda
There's the short cut
Am I to walk along there
No
wait
It is Phil! Oh, cuckoo, it is Phil. Have you turned into a fairy,
Phil
Cuckoo
where
is Phil gone? Why did you send him away
I didn't send him away
You don't understand. Never
mind, but get into the boat. It'll be all right, you'll see
But are we to go away and leave Phil here, all alone at the other side
of the moon
Oh, you silly girl
Phil's all right, and in some
ways he has a great deal more sense than you, I can tell you. Get into
the boat and make yourself comfortable; lie down at the bottom and cover
yourself up with the mantle. You needn't be afraid of wetting your feet
a little, moon water never gives cold. There, now
Who will row
_You_ can't, cuckoo, with your tiny
little claws, you could never hold the oars, I'm
Hush
Children, try to be good!
      That is the end of all teaching;
    Easily understood,
      And very easy in preaching.
    And if you find it hard,
      Your efforts you need but double;
    Nothing deserves reward
      Unless it has given as trouble
One of your tricks again, Mr. Cuckoo
However, I don't mind. It _was_ a short cut home, and it was
very comfortable in the boat, and I certainly saw a great deal last
night, and I'm very much obliged to you -- particularly for making it all
right with Phil about not coming to play with me to-day. Ah! that
reminds me, I'm in disgrace. I wonder if Aunt Grizzel will really make
me stay in my room all day. How tired I shall be, and what will Mr.
Kneebreeches think! But it serves me right. I _was_ very cross and
rude
Good morning, missie
I hope you've slept well
Exceedingly well, thank you, Dorcas. I've had a delightful night
That's good news
and I've good
news for you, too, missie. At least, I hope you'll think it so. Your
aunt has ordered the carriage for quite early this morning -- so you see
she really wants to please you, missie, about playing with little Master
Phil; and if to-morrow's a fine day, we'll be sure to find some way of
letting him know to come
Thank you, Dorcas. I hope it will be all right, and that Lady Lavander
won't say anything against it. I dare say she won't. I feel ever so much
happier this morning, Dorcas; and I'm very sorry I was so rude to Aunt
Grizzel, for of course I know I _should_ obey her
That's right, missie
It seems to me, Dorcas
it seems to me, Dorcas, that it's _all_ 'obeying
orders' together. There's the sun now, just getting up, and the moon
just going to bed -- _they_ are always obeying, aren't they? I wonder why
it should be so hard for people -- for children, at least
To be sure, missie, you do put it a way of your own
but I see how you mean, I think, and it's quite
true. And it _is_ a hard lesson to learn
I want to learn it _well_, Dorcas
So will
you please tell Aunt Grizzel that I'm very sorry about last night, and
I'll do just as she likes about staying in my room or anything. But, if
she _would_ let me, I'd far rather go down and do my lessons as usual
for Mr. Kneebreeches. I won't ask to go out in the garden; but I would
like to please Aunt Grizzel by doing my lessons _very_ well
I only hope the child's not going to be ill
I am particularly gratified
by the
intelligence and interest Miss Griselda displays with regard to the
study of astronomy, which I have recently begun to give her some
elementary instruction in. And, indeed, I have no fault to find with the
way in which any of the young lady's tasks are performed
I am extremely glad to hear it
What did you do yesterday, Phil
Were you sorry not
to come to play with me
No
I didn't mind. I was looking for the way
to fairyland to show you, and I do believe I've found it. Oh, it _is_
such a pretty way
I'm afraid the way to fairyland isn't so easily found
But
I'd like to hear about where you went. Was it far
A good way
Won't you come with me? It's in the wood. I
can show you quite well, and we can be back by tea-time
Very well
_Isn't_ it nice
It must have been a fairies' garden some time, I'm
sure, and I shouldn't wonder if one of the doors into fairyland is
hidden somewhere here, if only we could find it
If only
I don't think we shall find it, Phil; but,
any way, this is a lovely place you've found, and I'd like to come here
very often
And if the fairies _do_ come here
they'll be very pleased
to find a house all ready, won't they
Phil
it must be getting late
Past tea-time
I dare say it is. Look how low down the sun has got. Come, Phil, we
must be quick. Where is the place we came out of the wood at
Here
Phil
this isn't the way we came
Isn't it
Then we must have comed the
wrong way
I'm afraid so
and it seems to be so late already. I'm
so sorry, for Aunt Grizzel will be vexed, and I did so want to please
her. Will your nurse be vexed, Phil
I don't care if she are
You shouldn't say that, Phil. You know we _shouldn't_ have stayed so
long playing
Nebber mind
If it was mother I would mind. Mother's so
good, you don't know. And she never 'colds me, except when I _am_
naughty -- so I _do_ mind
She wouldn't like you to be out so late, I'm sure
and it's most my fault, for I'm the biggest. Now, which way
_shall_ we go
To think
to think that I should not know my way
in a little bit of a wood like this -- I that was up at the other side of
the moon last night
Cuckoo, cuckoo
couldn't you help us
cuckoo, cuckoo
He's calling us
He's going to show us the way.
That's how he calls me always. Good cuckoo, we're coming
I know the way now, good cuckoo
I can go home alone
now, if your aunt will be vexed with you
No
I must take you quite all the way home, Phil dear.
I promised to take care of you, and if nurse scolds any one it must be
me, not you
Here he is, Mr. Crouch
No need now to send to look
for him. Oh, Master Phil, how could you stay out so late? And to-night
of all nights, just when your -- I forgot, I mustn't say. Come in to the
parlour at once -- and this little girl, who is she
She isn't a little girl, she's a young lady
and she's to come into the parlour and have some
supper with me, and then some one must take her home to her auntie's
house -- that's what I say
supper
Phil
my own little Phil; where have you been to? You
didn't know I was waiting here for you, did you
Mother, mother
Mother, mother
you must kiss Griselda, too! She's
the little girl that is so kind, and plays with me; and she has no
mother
I think I know about Griselda
And what were you about, children, to lose your way
I took Griselda to see a place that I thought was the way to fairyland,
and then we stayed to build a house for the fairies, in case they come,
and then we came out at the wrong side, and it got dark
And _was_ it the way to fairyland
Phil doesn't understand yet
He isn't old enough.
The way to the true fairyland is hard to find, and we must each find it
for ourselves, mustn't we
Yes, dear child
But Phil and you may help each other, and I perhaps may help you both
You're not going to take Phil
away, are you
No, I have come to stay here
and Phil's father is
coming too, soon. We are going to live at the White House -- the house on
the other side of the wood, on the way to Merrybrow. Are you glad,
children
good-bye
For you will not need me now
I leave you in good hands, Griselda. You have friends now who will
understand you -- friends who will help you both to work and to play.
Better friends than the mandarins, or the butterflies, or even than your
faithful old cuckoo
Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo
good-bye
</text>
