<text>
Miss Winter, are you busy? Do you want this afternoon? Can you take a
good long walk
Ethel, my dear, how often have I told you of your impetuosity -- you have
forgotten
Very well
I beg your pardon. Good-morning,
Miss Winter
Good-morning, Ethel, good-morning, Flora
Good-morning
Will you
Is your mamma pretty well to-day
Oh! very well
she is coming to the reading
Papa is going to drive her out to-day
I am very glad. And the baby
I do believe she does it on purpose
If
you don't want this afternoon to yourself
Oh, Miss Winter, if you would
be so kind as to walk to Cocksmoor with us
To Cocksmoor, my dear
Yes, yes, but hear
It is not for nothing. Yesterday
No, the day before
There was a poor man brought into the hospital. He had been terribly
hurt in the quarry, and papa says he'll die. He was in great distress,
for his wife has just got twins, and there were lots of children before.
They want everything -- food and clothes -- and we want to walk and take
it
We had a collection of clothes ready, luckily
and we
have a blanket, and some tea and some arrowroot, and a bit of bacon, and
mamma says she does not think it too far for us to walk, if you will be
so kind as to go with us
How could you carry the blanket, my
dear
Oh, we have settled that
we mean to make the donkey a
sumpter-mule, so, if you are tired, you may ride home on her
But, my dear, has your mamma considered? They are such a set of wild
people at Cocksmoor; I don't think we could walk there alone
It is Saturday
we can get the boys
If you would reflect a little! They would be no protection. Harry would
be getting into scrapes, and you and Mary running wild
I wish Richard was at home
I know
Mr. Ernescliffe will come. I am sure he can walk
so far now. I'll ask him
Ethel does not consider
I don't think your
mamma will be pleased
Why not
My dear -- a gentleman walking with you, especially if Margaret is
going
I don't think he is strong enough
but I can't think
why there should be any harm. Papa took us all out walking with him
yesterday -- little Aubrey and all, and Mr. Ernescliffe went
But, my dear
Good-morning. Miss Winter. I suppose Flora has told you the request we
have to make to you
Yes, my dear Margaret, but did your mamma consider what a lawless place
Cocksmoor is
That was the doubt
but papa said he would answer for
it nothing would happen to us, and mamma said if you would be so kind
It is unlucky
Oh, Harry
Miss Winter, 'tis all right -- Mr.
Ernescliffe says he is quite up to the walk, and will like it very much,
and he will undertake to defend you from the quarrymen
Is Miss Winter afraid of the quarrymen
Shall I take
a club
I'll take my gun and shoot them
Did you ask him to come with us
Yes, he said he should like it of all things. Papa was there, and said
it was not too far for him -- besides, there's the donkey. Papa says it,
so we must go, Miss Winter
I'll
see about it. Don't say any more, please
What's in the wind
Are many of your reefs out there,
Ethel
Harry can talk nothing but sailors' language
and I am
sure he did not learn that of Mr. Ernescliffe. You never hear slang from
him
But aren't we going to Cocksmoor
We shall know soon
I suppose I had better wait till
after the reading to mend that horrid frock
I think so, since we are so nearly collected
the boys
The sphynx
You've crushed it
No, here 'tis
tis not hurt
Pax! Pax
Harry! you had
better do that again
Be off, out of this window,
and let Ethel and me read in peace
Here's the place
Crispin, Crispian's day. How I do like
Henry V
It is no use to try to keep those boys in order
Saturnalia, as papa calls Saturday
Is not your eldest brother coming home to-day
He
is not coming till he has passed that examination. He thinks it better
not
Now, Margaret, will you take her up to the nursery
Mamma, can we go to
Cocksmoor
You don't think it will be too far for you
Oh, no, not at all, thank you, that was not -- But Margaret has
explained
Yes, poor Margaret
She has settled it by
choosing to stay at home with me. It is no matter for the others, and he
is going on Monday, so that it will not happen again
Margaret has behaved very well
She has indeed
Well, Harry, how is the
caterpillar
They've just capsized it, mamma
and Mary is making
all taut
or you will have the
things mixed together in your heads
Acting nurse
What
an odd little face it is! I didn't think little white babies were so
pretty! Well, I shall always consider myself as the real godfather -- the
other is all a sham
I think so
but I must not stand with her in a
draught
So we are to have
an expedition to-day
Oh! lucky baby, to
have so many years to come before you are plagued with troublesome
propriety
I like the verse which explains that:


       'They who now sit lowest here,
        When their Master shall appear,
        He shall bid them higher rise,
        And be highest in the skies
I did not think of that being the meaning of 'when He that bade thee
cometh
It seemed to be only our worldly advantage that was meant before
Well, it means that too
I suppose it does
but the higher sense is the
one chiefly to be dwelt on. It is a lesson how those least known and
regarded here, and humblest in their own eyes, shall be the highest
hereafter
May we go, mamma
Yes, you three -- all of you, indeed, unless you wish to say any more
It means
altogether -- it is a lesson against ambition
True
the love of eminence for its own sake
And in so many different ways
Ay, worldly greatness, riches, rank, beauty
All sorts of false flash and nonsense, and liking to be higher than one
ought to be
I am sure there is nothing lower, or more
mean and shabby, than getting places and praise a fellow does not
deserve
Oh, yes
but no one fit to speak to would do that
Plenty of people do, I can tell you
Then I hope I shall never know who they are
But
I'll tell you what I was thinking of, mamma. Caring to be clever, and
get on, only for the sake of beating people
I think that might be better expressed
I know
I mean caring to do a thing only because nobody else can do
it -- wanting to be first more than wanting to do one's best
You are quite right, my dear Ethel
and I am glad
you have found in the Gospel a practical lesson, that should be useful
to you both. I had rather you did so than that you read it in Greek,
though that is very nice too
Now, go and mend that deplorable frock, and if you
don't dream over it, you won't waste too much of your holiday
I'll get it done in no time
Presently
What have you here
Oh! no
wonder you can't leave off. I've been wanting you to read it all the
week
I forgot, mamma told me
not to read those stories in the morning. Only five minutes, Norman
Wait a bit, I'll come
Oh, yes
don't you know, Norman? In a brown book on the
upper shelf in the dining-room. Don't you remember papa's telling us the
meaning of them, when we had the grand book-dusting
Alan
Where have you been living, then
Alan sent me to school at Miss Lawler's when my mother died, and there
I have been ever since, while he has been these three years and a half
on the African station
What, is he in the navy
Yes
Lieutenant Ernescliffe. He got his
promotion last week. My father was in the battle of Trafalgar; and
Alan has been three years in the West Indies, and then he was in the
Mediterranean, and now on the coast of Africa, in the Atalantis. You
must have heard about him, for it was in the newspaper, how, when he was
mate, he had the command of the Santa Isabel, the slaver they captured
He has been a small doctor
He has
been with me to see old Mrs. Robins, and she made so much of him, that
if I take him again he'll be regularly spoiled
Poor old woman, it must have been a pleasure to her
it is so seldom she has any change
Who is she
The butcher's old mother
She
is one of papa's pet patients, because he thinks her desolate and
ill-used
Her sons bully her
and that smart daughter is
worse still. She never comes to see the old lady but she throws her into
an agitated state, fit to bring on another attack. A meek old soul, not
fit to contend with them
Why do they do it
For the cause of all evil! That daughter marries a grazier, and wants
to set up for gentility; she comes and squeezes presents out of her
mother, and the whole family are distrusting each other, and squabbling
over the spoil before the poor old creature is dead! It makes one sick!
I gave that Mrs. Thorn a bit of my mind at last; I could not stand the
sight any longer. Madam, said I, you'll have to answer for your mother's
death, as sure as my name's Dick May -- a harpy dressed up in feathers and
lace
Mary
Maggie
It is the first time you have seen us in perfection
with mamma at the head of the table -- no, not quite perfection either,
without Richard
I am very glad to have seen it
What a blessing it
must be to your brothers to have such a home
Yes, indeed
I cannot fancy any advantage in life equal to it. Your father and
mother so entirely one with you all
You can't think how often I shall remember it, or how rejoiced I
What's that base proposal, Ethel
To put you on the donkey
They want to see a sailor riding
Dr. May
I assure you that Alan
rides like
Like a horse marine
Why, Norman, nonsense! Mr. Ernescliffe rode the new black
kicking horse till he made it quite steady
Made it steady! No, Mary, that is saying too much for it
It has no harm in it -- capital horse -- splendid
I
shall take you out with it this afternoon, Maggie
You have driven it several times
Yes, I drove him to Abbotstoke yesterday -- never started, except at a
fool of a woman with an umbrella, and at the train -- and we'll take care
not to meet that
It is only to avoid the viaduct at half-past four
and
that is easily done
So you are bound for Cocksmoor
I told the poor
fellow you were going to see his wife, and he was so thankful, that it
did one's heart good
Is he better? I should like to tell his wife
A bad business
he is a shade
better to-day; he may get through yet; but he is not my patient. I only
saw him because I happened to be there when he was brought in, and Ward
was not in the way
And what's his name
I can't tell -- don't think I ever heard
We ought to know
it would be awkward to go
without
To go roaming about Cocksmoor asking where the man in the hospital
lives
We can't wait till Monday
I've done
I'll run down to the hospital and find out.
May I, mamma
Without your pudding, old fellow
I don't want pudding
May I,
mamma
To be sure you may
Stop, stop! know what you are going after, sir
What will they know there of Cocksmoor, or the man whose wife has
twins? You must ask for the accident in number five
And oh, Norman, come back in time
I'll be bound I'm back before Etheldred the Unready wants me
By-the-bye, if there's any pudding owing to me, that
little chorister fellow of ours, Bill Blake, has got a lot of voracious
brothers that want anything that's going. Tom and Blanche might take it
down to 'em; I'm off! Hooray
Papa
will you lend me a pair of spectacles for the
walk
And make yourself one, Ethel
I don't care -- I want to see the view
It is very bad for you, Ethel
you will
make your sight much shorter if you accustom your eyes to them
Well, mamma, I never do wear them about the house
For a very good reason
because you haven't got them
No, I believe Harry stole them in the holidays
Stole them
as if they weren't my property,
unjustifiably appropriated by her
They were that pair that you never could keep on, papa
no use at all to you. Come, do lend me them
I'm sure I shan't let you wear them
I shan't go, if you
choose to make yourself such an object
Ah
the boys thought it time to put a stop to it
when it came to a caricature of the little doctor in petticoats
Yes, in Norman's Lexicon
a capital likeness of you,
papa; but I never could get him to tell me who drew it
I wish you were obliged to go about without them yourself, papa
and then you would know how tiresome it is not to see twice the
length of your own nose
Not such a very short allowance either
There, Maggie, you are complete, you old hen-and-chicken daisy. Can't
you take her portrait in the character, Margaret
With her pink cap, and Blanche and Aubrey as they are now, on each
side
Margaret ought to be in the picture herself
Fetch the
artist in Norman's Lexicon, Harry
Since he has hit off one of us so well
Well! I'm
off. I must see old Southern. You'll be ready by three? Good-bye, hen
and chicken
And I may have the spectacles
you
know I am an injured individual, for mamma won't let me carry baby about
the house because I am so blind
You are welcome to embellish yourself, as far as I am concerned
Oh, no
you can't be the hen-and-chicken daisy
properly, without all your chickens. It is the first christening we ever
had without our all being there
It was best not to press it, my dear
Your papa
would have had his thoughts turned to the disappointment again and it
makes Richard himself so unhappy to see his vexation, that I believe it
is better not to renew it
But to miss him for so long
Perhaps it is best, for
it is very miserable when papa is sarcastic and sharp, and he cannot
understand it, and takes it as meaning so much more than it really does,
and grows all the more frightened and diffident. I cannot think what he
would do without you to encourage him
Or you, you good sister
If we could only
teach him not to mind being laughed at, and to have some confidence in
himself, he and papa would get on together
It is very hard
that papa won't
believe it, when he does his best
I don't think papa can bear to bring himself to believe that it is his
best
He is too clever himself to see how other people can be slow
and yet
I cannot bear
to think of his telling Richard it was no use to think of being a
clergyman, and he had better turn carpenter at once, just because he
failed in his examination
My dear, I wish you would forget that
You know papa
sometimes says more than he means, and he was excessively vexed and
disappointed. I know he was pleased with Ritchie's resolve not to come
home again till he had passed, and it is best that it should not be
broken
The whole vacation, studying so hard, and this christening
it is treating him as if he had done wrong. I do believe Mr.
Ernescliffe thinks he has -- for papa always turns away the conversation
if his name is mentioned! I wish you would explain it, mamma; I can't
bear that
If I can
But, after all, Margaret, I never feel quite sure that poor Ritchie
does exert himself to the utmost, he is too desponding to make the most
of himself
And the more vexed papa is, the worse it grows
It is
provoking, though. How I do wish sometimes to give Ritchie a jog, when
there is some stumbling-block that he sticks fast at. Don't you remember
those sums, and those declensions? When he is so clear and sensible
about practical matters too -- anything but learning -- I cannot think
why -- and it is very mortifying
I dare say it is very good for us not to have our ambition gratified
There are so many troubles worse than these failures,
that it only shows how happy we are that we should take them so much to
heart
They are a very real trouble
Don't smile, mamma. Only
remember how wretched his schooldays were, when papa could not see any
difficulty in what to him was so hard, and how all papa's eagerness only
stupified him the more
They are a comfort not to have that over again! Yet
I often think there is more fear for Norman. I dread his talent and
success being snares
There is no self-sufficiency about him
I hope not, and he is so transparent, that it would be laughed down at
the first bud: but the universal good report, and certainty of success,
and being so often put in comparison with Richard, is hardly safe. I was
very glad he heard what Ethel said to-day
Ethel spoke very deeply
I was a good deal struck by
it -- she often comes out with such solid thoughts
She is an excellent companion for Norman
The desire of being first
I suppose that is a form
of caring for oneself! It set me thinking a good deal, mamma, how many
forms of ambition there are. The craving for rank, or wealth, or beauty,
are so clearly wrong, that one does not question about them; but I
suppose, as Ethel said, the caring to be first in attainments is as
bad
Or in affection
In affection -- oh, mamma, there is always some one person with whom one
is first
Ritchie -- I never
considered it -- but I know -- it is my great pleasure -- oh, mamma
Well, my dear, I do not say but that you are the first with Richard,
and that you well deserve to be so; but is the seeking to be the first
even in that way safe? Is it not self-seeking again
Well, perhaps it is. I know it is what makes jealousy
The only plan is not to think about ourselves at all
Affection is round us like sunshine, and there is no use in measuring
and comparing. We must give it out freely ourselves, hoping for nothing
again
Oh, mamma, you don't mean that
Perhaps I should have said, bargaining for nothing again. It will
come of itself, if we don't exact it; but rivalry is the sure means of
driving it away, because that is trying to get oneself worshipped
I suppose, then, you have never thought of it
Why, it would have been rather absurd
to
begin to torment myself whether you were all fond of me! You all have
just as much affection for me, from beginning to end, as is natural,
and what's the use of thinking about it? No, no, Margaret, don't go
and protest that you love me, more than is natural
that would be in the style of
Regan and Goneril. It will be natural by-and-by that you should, some
of you, love some one else better, and if I cared for being first, what
should I do then
Oh, mamma! But
you are always sure of papa
In one way, yes
but how do I know how long
No, Margaret, depend upon
it, the only security is not to think about ourselves at all, and not
to fix our mind on any affection on earth. The least share of the Love
above is the fullness of all blessing, and if we seek that first, all
these things will be added unto us, and are
Is this all the walking party
Harry won't go because of Ethel's spectacles
and
Mary and he are inseparable, so they are gone with Hector to have a
shipwreck in the field
And your other sisters
Margaret has ratted -- she is going to drive out with mamma
as to Etheldred the Unready, I'll run up and hurry her
Oh! Norman, come in. Is it time
I should think so! You're keeping every one waiting
Oh, dear! go on; only just tell me the past participle of 'offero', and
I'll catch you up
Oh, yes, how stupid. The 'a' long or short? Then that's right. I had
such a line in my head, I was forced to write it down. Is not it a
capital subject this time
The devotion of Decius? Capital. Let me see
Oh, you have taken up
quite a different line from mine. I began with Mount Vesuvius spouting
lava like anything
But Mount Vesuvius didn't spout till it overthrew Pompeii
Murder
I forgot! It's lucky you put me in mind. I must
make a fresh beginning. There go my six best lines! However, it was
an uncanny place, fit for hobgoblins, and shades, and funny customers,
which will do as well for my purpose. Ha! that's grand about its being
so much better than the vana gloria triumphalis -- only take care of the
scanning there
Ethel, Norman, what are you about
Do you mean to go to
Cocksmoor to-day
Oh, yes
only I've lost
my blue-edged handkerchief -- Flora, have you seen it
No; but here is your red scarf
Thank you, there is a good Flora. And oh! I finished a frock all but
two stitches. Where is it gone? Go on, all of you, I'll overtake you:


        "Purer than breath of earthly fame,
         Is losing self in a glorious aim.


"Is that better, Norman
You'll drive us out of patience
are you ready
Oh, my frock! my frock! There 'tis -- three stitches -- go on, and I'll
come
Go on, Miss Winter goes slowly up the hill, and I'll
overtake you
Come, Norman, then; it is the only way to make her come at all
I shall wait for her
Go on, Flora, we shall catch you
up in no time
Never mind your aims
and fames and trumpery English rhymes. Your verses will be much the
best, Ethel; I only went on a little about Mount Vesuvius and the
landscape, as Alan described it the other day, and Decius taking a last
look, knowing he was to die. I made him beg his horse's pardon, and say
how they will both be remembered, and their self-devotion would inspire
Romans to all posterity, and shout with a noble voice
Oh! yes; but oh, dear, I've done! Come along
It is a famous subject
Yes, you have made a capital beginning. If you won't break down
somewhere, as you always do, with some frightful false quantity, that
you would get an imposition for, if you were a boy. I wish you were. I
should like to see old Hoxton's face, if you were to show him up some of
these verses
I'll tell you what, Norman, if I was you, I would not make Decius
flatter himself with the fame he was to get -- it is too like the
stuff every one talks in stupid books. I want him to say -- Rome -- my
country -- the eagles -- must win, if they do -- never mind what becomes of
me
But why should he not like to get the credit of it, as he did? Fame and
glory -- they are the spirit of life, the reward of such a death
Oh, no, no
Fame is coarse and vulgar -- blinder than
ever they draw Love or Fortune -- she is only a personified newspaper,
trumpeting out all that is extraordinary, without minding whether it
is good or bad. She misses the delicate and lovely -- I wished they would
give us a theme to write about her. I should like to abuse her well
It would make a very good theme, in a new line
but I
don't give into it, altogether. It is the hope and the thought of fame,
that has made men great, from first to last. It is in every one that
is not good for nothing, and always will be! The moving spirit of man's
greatness
I'm not sure
I think looking for fame is like wanting
a reward at once. I had rather people forgot themselves. Do you think
Arnold von Winkelried thought about fame when he threw himself on the
spears
He got it
Yes; he got it for the good of other people, not to please himself.
Fame does those that admire it good, not those that win it
But
It is no use talking, Ethel, it
is all a fight and a race. One is always to try to be foremost. That's
the spirit of the thing -- that's what the great, from first to last, have
struggled, and fought, and lived, and died for
I know it is a battle, I know it is a race. The Bible says so
but is not there the difference, that here all may win -- not
only one? One may do one's best, not care whether one is first or last.
That's what our reading to-day said
That was against trumpery vanity -- false elevation -- not what one has
earned for oneself, but getting into other people's places that one
never deserved. That every one despises
Of course! That they do. I say, Norman, didn't you mean Harvey
Anderson
It is pretension that is
hateful -- true excelling is what one's life is for. No, no, I'll never be
beat, Ethel -- I never have been beat by any one, except by you, when you
take pains
and I never
will be
Oh, Norman
I mean, of course, while I have senses. I would not be like Richard for
all the world
Oh, no, no, poor Richard
He is an excellent fellow in everything else
I could
sometimes wish I was more like him -- but how he can be so amazingly slow,
I can't imagine. That examination paper he broke down in -- I could have
done it as easily as possible
I did it all but one question
but so did he, you know,
and we can't tell whether we should have it done well enough
I know I must do something respectable when first I go to Oxford, if
I don't wish to be known as the man whose brother was plucked
Yes
if papa will but let you try for the Randall
scholarship next year, but he says it is not good to go to Oxford so
young
And I believe I had better not be there with Richard
I
don't like coming into contrast with him, and I don't think he can like
it, poor fellow, and it isn't his fault. I had rather stay another year
here, get one of the open scholarships, and leave the Stoneborough ones
for those who can do no better
Here you are
I told them it was of no use to wait
when you and Norman had begun a dissertation
Now, Mr. Ernescliffe, I should like you to say
which
do you think is the best, the name of it, or the thing
Ethel
how is any one to understand you? The argument is
this: Ethel wants people to do great deeds, and be utterly careless of
the fame of them; I say, that love of glory is a mighty spring
A mighty one
but I think, as far as I understand the
question, that Ethel has the best of it
I don't mean that people should not serve the cause first of all
but let them have their right place and due honour
They had better make up their minds to do without it
Remember --


       'The world knows nothing of its greatest men
Then it is a great shame
But do you think it right
to care for distinction? It
is a great thing to earn it, but I don't think one should care for the
outer glory
I believe it is a great temptation
The being over-elated
or over-depressed by success or failure in the eyes of the world,
independently of the exertion we have used
You call it a temptation
Decidedly so
But one can't live or get on without it
I can't hardly tell, Miss --'tis so far to go
I suppose none of the children can go to school? I don't know their
faces there
No, Miss --'tis so far. I am sorry they should not, for they always was
used to it where we lived before, and my oldest girl she can work very
nicely. I wish I could get a little place for her
You would hardly know what to do without her
No, ma'am; but she wants better food than I can give her, and it is a
bad wild place for a girl to grow up. It is not like what I was used to,
ma'am; I was always used to keep to my school and to my church -- but it
is a bad place to live in here
There would be a worthy ambition
Let us propose that aim to ourselves, to build a church
on Cocksmoor
How many years do you give us to do it in
Few or many, I don't care. I'll never leave off thinking about it till
it is done
It need not be long
if one could get up a subscription
A penny subscription
I'd rather have it my own doing
You agree then
do you, Mr. Ernescliffe
I may safely do so
There's been an accident
you had better go down the
lane and in by the garden
Oh! Miss -- Miss -- have you heard
No -- what? What has happened? Not Mrs. May
Oh, ma'am! it is all of them. The carriage is overturned, and
Who's hurt? Mamma! papa! Oh, tell me
There's nurse
What is it? Oh, nurse
My poor, poor children
They are going to bring Miss May in
Oh, Norman, Norman, speak! What is it
I'll call
No -- no -- they can't
Is it -- oh, tell
me! Are they much hurt? Oh, try to say
They say Margaret is alive
but -- And papa -- he
stood up -- sat -- walked -- was better
Is he hurt -- much hurt
His arm
Mamma
Oh! what is the matter? What is it
Oh, Norman
Mr. Ward! Oh!
is he there
Yes
he was at the place. He
said it
What
Mamma
Where is she? What are they doing for her? What
There's nothing to be done. She -- when they lifted her up, she was
Dead
Dead
The carriage turned
right over -- her head struck on the kerb stone
Did you see
I saw them lift her up
And papa -- he was stunned -- but soon he
sat up, said he would go to her -- he looked at her -- felt her pulse, and
then -- sank down over her
And did you say -- I can't remember -- was he hurt
His arm -- all twisted -- broken
But he won't die
Oh! no, no, no
And Margaret
They were bringing her home. I'll go and see. Oh! what's the meaning of
this
You are still faint, dear Norman; you had better lie still, and I'll go
and see
Faint -- stuff -- how horridly stupid
Hush! don't wake baby for anything
Where are they
how is papa?
who is with him
Mr. Ward and Alan Ernescliffe
Nurse came up just now,
and said they were setting his arm
Where is he
On the bed in his dressing-room
Has he come to himself -- is he better
With
Margaret
Don't stop me
they want some
handkerchiefs
What, is not she in her own room
No
in mamma's
We can't judge of Margaret -- she has moved, and made a little
moaning -- there are no limbs broken, but we are afraid for her head. Oh!
if papa could but
And papa
Mr. Ward is with him now -- his arm is terribly hurt
But oh! Flora -- one moment -- is he sensible
Hardly; he does not take any notice -- but don't keep me
Can I do anything
No; I don't see what you can do. Miss Winter and I are with Margaret;
there's nothing to do for her
Norman, here's Mr. Wilmot come to
ask if he can do anything -- Miss Winter sent word that you had better go
to him
How is baby
Nurse has fed her, and is putting her to bed; she is quiet now
will you go down, Norman
Where is he
In the drawing-room
Nothing
nobody can do anything. Make haste. Don't you
want a candle
No, thank you, I had rather be in the dark. Come up as soon as you have
seen him
Then you think it would be better for me not to sit
up with him
I should decidedly say so
He has recognised
Mr. Ernescliffe, and any change might excite him, and lead him to ask
questions. The moment of his full consciousness is especially to be
dreaded
But you do not call him insensible
No, but he seems stunned -- stupified by the shock, and by pain. He spoke
to Miss Flora when she brought him some tea
And admirably she managed
I was much afraid
of some answer that would rouse him, but she kept her self-possession
beautifully, and seemed to compose him in a moment
She is valuable indeed -- so much judgment and activity
I don't know what we should have done without her. But we ought to have
Mr. Richard -- has no one sent to him
Is he at Oxford, or at his tutor's
At Oxford; he was to be there to-day, was he not, Norman
What o'clock is it? Is the post gone -- seven -- no; it is all safe
The best plan would be
for me to go to him at once
and bring him home. If I go by the mail-train, I shall get to him sooner
than a letter could
And it will be better for him
He will feel it
dreadfully, poor boy. But we shall all do better when we have him. You
can get back to-morrow evening
Sunday
I believe there is a train at four
Oh! thank you, sir
Since that is settled, perhaps I had better go up to the doctor
I don't like leaving Flora alone with him
How fortunate that that youth is here
he seems to
be quite taking Richard's place
And to feel it as much
He has been invaluable with
his sailor's resources and handiness
Well, what shall I tell poor Richard
Tell him there is no reason his father should not do very well, if
we can keep him from agitation -- but there's the point. He is of so
excitable a constitution, that his faculties being so far confused is
the best thing, perhaps, that could be. Mr. Ernescliffe manages him very
well -- used to illness on that African coast, and the doctor is very
fond of him. As to Miss May, one can't tell what to say about her
yet -- there's no fracture, at least -- it must be a work of time to judge
God bless and support you, and turn this to your good, my dear boy
I hope to bring your
brother to-morrow
Thank you, sir
Dear, dear! poor darlings
Bless your dear hearts
Can I see papa
No change
No
She only once said, thank
you
Margaret
Did you speak of her
Yes, dear papa
She is quiet and
comfortable, so don't be uneasy, pray
Let me hear
There is injury? What is it
You see he is quite himself, quite collected
you heard now
clear and coherent his questions were
Can't it be helped? Do try to stop him till I can send to Mr. Ward
I will try, but I think he is in a state to judge for himself. I do,
upon my word; and I believe trying to prevent him would be more likely
to do him harm than letting him satisfy himself. I really think you need
not be alarmed
But you know
she is there -- it is mamma's
room, that will tell all
I believe he knows
It was that which made him faint
after the accident, for he had his perceptions fully at first. I have
suspected all day that he was more himself than he seemed, but I think
he could not bear to awaken his mind to understand it, and that he was
afraid to hear about her -- your sister, so that our mention of her was a
great relief, and did him good. I am convinced he knows the rest. Only
go on, be calm, as you have been, and we shall do very well
Better than could be hoped, he walked alone into the room, and was
quite calm and composed. Oh! if this will not hurt him, if the seeing
baby was but over
Does he want her
Yes, he would have come up here himself, but I would not let him.
Nurse, do you hear? Papa wants baby; let me have her
Bless me, Miss Flora, you can't hold her while you are all of a
tremble! And he has been to Miss Margaret
Yes, nurse, and he was only rather stiff and lame
Did Margaret seem to know him
She just answered in that dreamy way when he spoke to her. He says
he thinks it is as Mr. Ward believes, and that she will soon come to
herself. He is quite able to consider
And he knows all
I am sure he does. He desired to see baby, and he wants you, nurse.
Only mind you command yourself -- don't say a word you can help -- do
nothing to agitate him
Papa!
should not she be christened
Yes
at
once
Some one must see to it
Is Richard here
Yes, papa
Send him up presently. Where's nurse
Papa wants you
How d'ye do, Ritchie
You'll see about it all -- I
am glad you are come
I am going to ask if I may wish papa good-night
Shall I
say anything about your coming
Better than it was, thank you, my dear
you must take care of the
little ones
Yes, papa
Are they all well
Yes, papa
And good
Yes, very good all day
My love to them all. I hope I shall see them to-morrow. God bless you,
my dear, good-night
mamma! mamma
Is
anything the matter
Maggie, my Maggie
I say
I've
been in to papa. His door was open, and he heard me, and called me. He
says he should like any of us to come in and see him. Hadn't you better
go, Norman
Dear Norman
there's nothing to mind. He looks just as
usual. You would not know there was anything the matter
I see it
won't do
don't try -- you will be better by-and-by, and he
has not asked for you in particular
I won't be beat by such stuff
What does make me so ridiculous
Oh
I'll set that to rights in a minute, if
you will ask for a tumbler of hot water Miss Ethel
Would
you like to come into the study
They will never remember her! Oh! why
should it be
a Christening Sunday
Really, Ethel, I think there never was a
person so entirely without consideration as you are
How shall we, how can we virtuously bring up our motherless little
sister
I trust we shall do well by her, dear little thing. I see, on
an emergency, that I know how to act. I never thought I was capable of
being of so much use, thanks to dear, dear mamma's training. I shall
manage, I am sure, and so they will all depend on me, and look up to me.
How nice it was to hear dear papa say what he did about the comfort of
my being able to look after Margaret
Poor darling, it is saddest of all for her, because she
knows nothing, and will never remember her mamma! But if Margaret is but
better, she will take care of her, and oh how we ought to try -- and I,
such a naughty wild thing -- if I should hurt the dear little ones by
carelessness, or by my bad example! Oh! what shall I do, for want of
some one to keep me in order? If I should vex papa by any of my wrong
ways
May we bring her to you
Yes, do, my dears
Gertrude Margaret
My Daisy blossom, my little
Maggie
Might we
might we take her to
her godmother to see if she would notice her
No, I think not, better not
rouse her
Girls, we must learn carefulness and
thoughtfulness. We have no one to take thought for us now
I'll try not to be naughty
I will be always good papa
Daisy -- papa's Daisy -- your vows are made
You have promised to be good and
holy. We have the keeping of you, mamma's precious flower, her pearl
of truth! Oh, may God guard you to be an unstained jewel, till you come
back to her again -- and a blooming flower, till you are gathered into the
wreath that never fades -- my own sweet poor little motherless Daisy
Through lawless camp, through ocean wild,
     Her prophet eye pursues her child;
     Scans mournfully her poet's strain,
     Fears for her merchant, loss alike and gain
I
thought you were all going
The others are -- but may I not stay with you and her, papa
I had rather be alone, my dears. I will take care of her. I should wish
you all to be there
In the midst of life, we are in death
Well, we have to begin afresh
Yes
it is a great responsibility. I do trust we may be
enabled to do as we ought
And now Margaret is getting better, she will be our stay
I must go to her
I wish I could be as useful as Flora
There is an object for all one does, in trying to be a comfort to
papa
That's no use
We never can
Oh, but, Norman, he won't be always as he is now -- I am sure he cares
for us enough to be pleased, if we do right and get on
We used to be so happy
I don't think it can
be right to lament for our own sakes so much, is it
I don't want to do so
I suppose we ought not to feel it either
We ought to think of her gain. You can't? Well, I am glad, for no more
can I. I can't think of her liking for papa and baby and all of us to
be left to ourselves. But that's not right of me, and of course it all
comes right where she is; so I always put that out of my head, and think
what is to come next in doing, and pleasing papa, and learning
That's grown horrid
There's no pleasure in getting on,
nor in anything
Don't you care for papa and all of us being glad, Norman
I wish
I
do believe it is having nothing to do. You will be better when you get
back to school on Monday
That is worst of all
You don't like going among the boys again? But that must be done some
time or other. Or shall I get Richard to speak to Dr. Hoxton to let you
have another week's leave
No, no, don't be foolish. It can't be helped
I am very sorry, but I think you will be better for it
Dear
papa
Dear papa
I hope I shall soon be better, and be some
comfort to you
My best -- my own -- my comfort
Baby -- is she well
Yes, thank Heaven, she has not suffered at all
I heard her this morning, I must see her to-morrow. But don't stay,
dear, dear papa, it is late, and I am sure you are not at all well. Your
arm -- is it very much hurt
It is nothing you need think about, my dear. I am much better than I
could have imagined possible
And you have been nursing me all the time! Papa, you must let me take
care of you now. Do pray go to bed at once, and get up late. Nurse will
take good care of me. Good-night, dear papa
Now I have him, I don't want you
I can endure better to go now
and I shall hear of you
often; Hector will let me know, and Richard has promised to write
Ay, you must let us often have a line. I should guess you were a
letter-writing man
I have hitherto had too few friends who cared to hear of me to write
much, but the pleasure of knowing that any interest is taken in me
here
Well
mind that a letter will always be welcome, and
when you are coming southwards, here are your old quarters. We cannot
lose sight of you anyway, especially
after
the help you gave my poor boys and girls in their distress
It would be the utmost satisfaction to think I had been of the smallest
use
More than I know
too much to speak of. Well, we shall
see you again, though it is a changed place, and you must come and see
your god-daughter -- poor child -- may she only be brought up as her sisters
were! They will do their best, poor things, and so must I, but it is sad
work
The world has run so light and easy with me hitherto,
that you see I don't know how to bear with trouble. All thinking and
managing fell to my Maggie's share, and I had as little care on my hands
as one of my own boys -- poor fellows. I don't know how it is to turn out,
but of all the men on earth to be left with eleven children, I should
choose myself as the worst
Confidence -- affection -- daughters
Yes, yes
they are good children every one of them.
There's much to be thankful for, if one could only pluck up heart to
feel it
And you are convinced that Marga -- that Miss May is recovering
She has made a great advance today. The head is right, at least
I am not satisfied
about her yet. That want of power over the limbs, is more than the mere
shock and debility, as it seems to me, though Ward thinks otherwise,
and I trust he is right, but I cannot tell yet as to the spine. If
this should not soon mend I shall have Fleet to see her. He was a
fellow-student of mine very clever, and I have more faith in him than in
any one else in that line
By all means -- Yes
But you will let
me know how she goes on -- Richard will be so kind
We will not fail
you shall
hear. I'll write myself as soon as I can use my hand, but I hope she may
be all right long before that is likely to be
Your kindness
Feeling as I
must
I beg your pardon, 'tis no fit time,
nor fit -- But you'll let me hear
That I will
Poor boy! poor fellow. I see. No
wonder! Heaven grant I have not been the breaking of their two young
hearts, as well as my own! Maggie looked doubtful -- as much as she ever
did when my mind was set on a thing, when I spoke of bringing him here.
But after all, she liked him as much as the rest of us did -- she could
not wish it otherwise -- he is one of a thousand, and worthy of our
Margaret. That he is! and Maggie thinks so. If he gets on in his
profession, why then we shall see
Pshaw! What am I running on to? I'm all astray for want of her! My poor
girl
Mr
Ernthcliffe
Mr Ernthcliffe, there's
a white rothe for you
Miss Blanche
rothe
Here is dear mamma's unfinished
letter to Aunt Flora. Papa says we elder ones are to read it. It is a
description of us all, and very much indeed we ought to learn from it. I
shall keep a copy of it
You say it is long since you had a portrait gallery of the chicken
daisies, and if I do not write in these leisure days, you will hardly
get it after I am in the midst of business again. The new Daisy is like
Margaret at the same age -- may she continue like her! Pretty creature,
she can hardly be more charming than at present. Aubrey, the moon-faced,
is far from reconciled to his disposition from babyhood; he is a sober,
solemn gentleman, backward in talking, and with such a will of his own,
as will want much watching; very different from Blanche, who is Flora
over again, perhaps prettier and more fairy-like, unless this is only
one's admiration for the buds of the present season. None of them has
ever been so winning as this little maid, who even attracts Dr. Hoxton
himself, and obtains sugar-plums and kisses. 'Rather she than I,' says
Harry, but notice is notice to the white Mayflower, and there is my
anxiety -- I am afraid it is not wholesome to be too engaging ever to get
a rebuff. I hope having a younger sister, and outgrowing baby charms may
be salutary. Flora soon left off thinking about her beauty, and the fit
of vanity does less harm at five than fifteen. My poor Tom has not such
a happy life as Blanche, he is often in trouble at lessons, and bullied
by Harry at play, in spite of his champion, Mary; and yet I cannot
interfere, for it is good for him to have all this preparatory teasing
before he goes into school. He has good abilities, but not much
perseverance or energy, and I must take the teaching of him into my
own hands till his school-days begin, in hopes of instilling them.
The girlishness and timidity will be knocked out of him by the boys,
I suppose; Harry is too kind and generous to do more than tease him
moderately, and Norman will see that it does not go too far. It is a
common saying that Tom and Mary made a mistake, that he is the girl,
and she the boy, for she is a rough, merry creature, the noisiest in the
house, always skirmishing with Harry in defence of Tom, and yet devoted
to him, and wanting to do everything he does. Those two, Harry and Mary,
are exactly alike, except for Harry's curly mane of lion-coloured wig.
The yellow-haired laddie, is papa's name for Harry, which he does not
mind from him, though furious if the girls attempt to call him so.
Harry is the thorough boy of the family, all spirit, recklessness, and
mischief, but so true, and kind, and noble-hearted, that one loves him
the better after every freely confessed scrape. I cannot tell you how
grateful I am to my boy for his perfect confidence, the thing that
chiefly lessens my anxiety for him in his half-school, half-home life,
which does not seem to me to work quite well with him. There are two
sons of Mrs. Anderson's at the school, who are more his friends than I
like, and he is too easily led by the desire not to be outdone, and to
show that he fears nothing. Lately, our sailor-guest has inspired him
with a vehement wish to go to sea; I wish it was not necessary that the
decision should be made so early in life, for this fault is just what
would make us most fear to send him into the world very young, though in
some ways it might not do amiss for him.

"So much for the younger bairns, whom you never beheld, dear Flora.
The three whom you left, when people used to waste pity on me for their
being all babies together, now look as if any pair of them were twins,
for Norman is the tallest, almost outgrowing his strength, and Ethel's
sharp face, so like her papa's, makes her look older than Flora. Norman
and Ethel do indeed take after their papa, more than any of the others,
and are much alike. There is the same brilliant cleverness, the same
strong feeling, not easy of demonstration, though impetuous in action;
but poor Ethel's old foibles, her harum-scarum nature, quick temper,
uncouth manners, and heedlessness of all but one absorbing object, have
kept her back, and caused her much discomfort; yet I sometimes think
these manifest defects have occasioned a discipline that is the
best thing for the character in the end. They are faults that show
themselves, and which one can tell how to deal with, and I have full
confidence that she has the principle within her that will conquer
them
If
My great hope is her entire indifference to praise -- not approval, but
praise. If she has not come up to her own standard, she works on, not
always with good temper, but perseveringly, and entirely, unheeding of
commendation till she has satisfied herself, only thinking it stupid not
to see the faults. It is this independence of praise that I want to see
in her brother and sister. They justly earn it, and are rightly pleased
with it; but I cannot feel sure whether they do not depend on it too
much. Norman lives, like all school-boys, a life of emulation, and has
never met with anything but success. I do believe Dr. Hoxton and
Mr. Wilmot are as proud of him as we are; and he has never shown any
tendency to conceit, but I am afraid he has the love of being foremost,
and pride in his superiority, caring for what he is, compared with
others, rather than what he is himself
I know
I have done so, but that's over. I see what it
is worth. I'd give all the quam optimes I ever got in my life to be the
help Richard is to papa
You would if you were his age
Not I, I'm not the sort. I'm not like her. But are we to go on about
the elders
Oh! yes, don't let us miss a word. There can't be anything but praise
of them
Your sweet goddaughter. I almost feel as if I had spoken in
disparagement of her, but I meant no such thing, dear girl. It would be
hard to find a fault in her, since the childish love of admiration was
subdued. She is so solid and steady, as to be very valuable with the
younger ones, and is fast growing so lovely, that I wish you could
behold her. I do not see any vanity, but there lies my dread, not
of beauty -- vanity, but that she will find temptation in the being
everywhere liked and sought after. As to Margaret, my precious companion
and friend, you have heard enough of her to know her, and, as to telling
you what she is like, I could as soon set about describing her papa.
When I thought of not being spared to them this time, it was happiness
indeed to think of her at their head, fit to be his companion, with so
much of his own talent as to be more up to conversation with him, than
he could ever have found his stupid old Maggie. It was rather a trial
of her discretion to have Mr. Ernescliffe here while I was upstairs,
and very well she seems to have come out of it. Poor Richard's last
disappointment is still our chief trouble. He has been working hard with
a tutor all through the vacation, and has not even come home to see his
new sister, on his way to Oxford. He had made a resolution that he would
not come to us till he had passed, and his father thought it best that
it should be kept. I hope he will succeed next time, but his nervousness
renders it still more doubtful. With him it is the very reverse of
Norman. He suffers too much for want of commendation, and I cannot
wonder at it, when I see how much each failure vexes his father, and
Richard little knows how precious is our perfect confidence in him, how
much more valuable than any honours he could earn. You would be amused
to see how little he is altered from the pretty little fair fellow,
that you used to say was so like my old portrait, even the wavy rings of
light glossy hair sit on his forehead, just as you liked to twist them;
and his small trim figure is a fine contrast to Norman's long legs and
arms, which
So there you are up for the day -- really you look very comfortable
Yes, is not it a charming contrivance of Richard's? It quite gives me
the use of my hands
I think he is doing something else for you
I heard him
carpentering at six o'clock this morning, but I suppose it is to be a
secret
And don't you admire her night-cap
Is it anything different
Oh, I see -- so
she has a fine day night-cap. Is that your taste, Flora
Partly
and partly my own. I put in all these little
white puffs, and I hope you think they do me credit. Wasn't it grand of
me
She only despises you for them
I'm very glad you could
but do you know? it
is rather like that horrid old lady in some book, who had a paralytic
stroke, and the first thing she did that showed she had come to her
senses was to write, 'Rose-coloured curtains for the doctors
Well, it was for the doctor
and it had its effect. He
told me I looked much better when he found me trying it on
And did you really have the looking-glass and try it on
Yes, really
Don't you think one may as well be fit to be
seen if one is ill? It is no use to depress one's friends by being more
forlorn and disconsolate than one can help
No -- not disconsolate
but the white puffiness -- and the
hemming -- and the glass
Poor Ethel can't get over it
But, Ethel, do you think
there is nothing disconsolate in untidiness
You could be tidy without the little puffs! Your first bit of work too!
Don't think I'm tiresome. If they were an amusement to you, I am sure I
am very glad of them, but I can't see the sense of them
Poor little things
It is only my foible for
making a thing look nice. And, Ethel
I did not think the trouble wasted, if seeing me look fresher
cheered up dear papa a moment
I spoke to papa about nurse's proposal
and he quite agrees to it. Indeed it is impossible that Anne
should attend properly to all the children while nurse is so much
engaged with me
I think so
and it does not answer to bring Aubrey into
the school-room. It only makes Mary and Blanche idle, and Miss Winter
does not like it
Then the question is, who shall it be? Nurse has no one in view, and
only protests against 'one of the girls out of the school here
That's a great pity
Don't you think we could make her
take to Jane White, she is so very nice
I thought of her, but it will never answer if we displease nurse.
Besides, I remember at the time Anne came, dear mamma thought there was
danger of a girl's having too many acquaintances, especially taking the
children out walking. We cannot always be sure of sending her out with
Anne
Do you remember
Well
Don't you recollect, Flora, that girl whose father was in the
hospital -- that girl at Cocksmoor
I do
She was a very nice girl; I wonder whether nurse
would approve of her
How old
Fourteen, and tall. Such a clean cottage
it was
the very thing wanted, only how could he have contrived it
Don't you recognise it
Oh, I see; it is the old drawing-desk that no one used. And you have
put legs to it -- how famous! You are the best contriver, Richard
Then see, you can raise it up for reading or writing; here's a corner
for your ink to stand flat; and there it is down for your dinner
Charming, you have made it go so easily, when it used to be so stiff.
There -- give me my work-basket, please, Ethel; I mean to make some more
white puffs
What's the matter now, Ethel
you look as if you did not
approve of the table
I was only thinking it was as if she was settling herself to lie in bed
for a very long time
I hope not
but I don't see why she should not be as
comfortable as she can, while she is there
I am sure I hope you will never be ill, Ethel
You would
be horrid to nurse
She will know how to be grateful when she is
I say, Richard
this is hospital-meeting day, so you
won't be wanted to drive papa
No, I am at your service; do you want a walk
Sometimes
It is just as it happens. Now and then he
goes on just like himself, and then at other times he will not speak for
three or four miles
And he sighs
Those sighs are so very sad, and long, and
deep! They seem to have whole volumes in them, as if there was such a
weight on him
Some people say he is not as much altered as they expected
Oh! do they? Well! I can't fancy any one feeling it more. He can't
leave off his old self, of course, but
Margaret is a great comfort to him
That she is. She thinks of him all day long, and I don't think either
of them is ever so happy as in the evening, when he sits with her. They
talk about mamma then
It will be a long business, I am afraid
Indeed, he
said the other day, he thought he should never have the free use of the
elbow
And do you think it is very painful? I saw the other day, when Aubrey
was sitting on his knee and fidgeting, he shrank whenever he even came
towards it, and yet it seemed as if he could not bear to put him down
Yes it is excessively tender, and sometimes gets very bad at night
Ah
there's a line -- here -- round his eyes, that there
never used to be, and when it deepens, I am sure he is in pain, or has
been kept awake
You are very odd, Ethel; how do you see things in people's faces, when
you miss so much at just the same distance
I look after what I care about
One sees more with one's
mind than one's eyes. The best sight is inside
But do you always see the truth
Quite enough. What is less common than the ordinary world
I wonder you don't wear spectacles
Dear mamma did not like me to use
them
I say -- ben't you the young
doctor up at Stoneborough
I am Dr. May's son
Granny's bad
her head was all of a goggle, her legs all of a fur, she
felt as if some one was cutting right through her
Well
I am no doctor myself, but I'll ask
my father about you, and perhaps he can give you an order for the
hospital
No, no, thank ye, sir; I can't go to the hospital, I can't leave these
poor children; they've no father nor mother, sir, and no one to do for
them but me
What do you live on, then
On Sam's wages, sir; that's that boy. He is a good boy to me, sir, and
his little sisters; he brings it, all he gets, home to me, rig'lar, but
'tis but six shillings a week, and they makes 'em take half of it out in
goods and beer, which is a bad thing for a boy like him, sir
How old are you, Sam
A wretched place
I don't know what help
there is for the people. There's no one to do any thing for them, and it
is of no use to tell them to come to church when it it so far off, and
there is so little room for them
It is miserable
Richard
I'll tell you what. Suppose we were to get up
a Sunday-school at Cocksmoor. We could get a room, and walk there every
Sunday afternoon, and go to church in the evening instead
Well, Richard
I cannot tell
Going to church in the evening would
interfere with tea-time -- put out all the house -- make the evening
uncomfortable
The evenings are horrid now, especially Sundays
But missing two more would make them worse for the others
Papa is always with Margaret
We are of no use to him.
Besides these poor children -- are not they of more importance
And, then, what is to become of Stoneborough school
I hate it
It is not as bad
for you among the boys, but, while that committee goes on it is not
the least use to try to teach the girls right. Oh! the fusses about the
books, and one's way of teaching! And fancy how Mrs Ledwich used us.
You know I went again last Sunday, for the first time, and there I found
that class of Margaret's, that she had just managed to get into some
degree of nice order, taken so much pains with, taught so well. She
had been telling me what to hear them -- there it is given away to
Fanny Anderson, who is no more fit to teach than that stick, and all
Margaret's work will be undone. No notice to us -- not even the civility
to wait and see when she gets better
If we left them now for Cocksmoor, would it not look as it we were
affronted
Papa would be very angry
if he knew it
I am glad you did not tell him
I thought it would only tease him
and that he might
call it a petty female squabble; and when Margaret is well, it will come
right, if Fanny Anderson has not spoiled the girls in the meantime. It
is all Mrs. Ledwich's doing. How I did hate it when every one came up
and shook hands with me, and asked after Margaret and papa, only just
out of curiosity
Hush, hush, Ethel, what's the use of thinking such things
But, indeed, Richard, you don't
fancy that I want to teach at Cocksmoor, because it is disagreeable at
Stoneborough
No, indeed
The history of it is this. Last time
we walked here, that day, I said, and I meant it, that I would never put
it out of my head; I would go on doing and striving, and trying, till
this place was properly cared for, and has a church and a clergyman. I
believe it was a vow, Richard, I do believe it was,-- and if one makes
one, one must keep it. There it is. So, I can't give money, I have but
one pound in the world, but I have time, and I would make that useful,
if you would help me
I don't see how
I wish I could pick my way better. Some people have the
gift, you have hardly a splash, and I'm up to the ankles in mud
It is only taking care
besides your frock is so long,
and full. Can't you tuck it up and pin it
My pins always come out
No wonder, if you stick them in that way
Oh! you'll
tear that crape. Here, let me help you. Don't you see, make it go in and
out, that way; give it something to pull against
That's the third thing you have taught me -- to thread a
needle, tie a bow, and stick in a pin! I never could learn those things
of any one else; they show, but don't explain the theory
Dear, dear, dear papa
my work must also be to do all I
can to comfort him
Ethel, don't make
such a figure of yourself. Those muddy ankles and petticoats are not
fit to be seen -- there, now you are sweeping the pavement. Have you no
medium? One would think you had never worn a gown in your life before
Miss Ethel! Miss Ethel, you aren't
going up with them boots on! I do declare you are just like one of the
boys. And your frock
Well, Ethel, have you had a pleasant walk
Yes -- no -- Oh, Margaret
Ethel, dear, what is the matter? Papa
No -- no -- only I draggled my frock, and Richard threw cold water. And I
am good for nothing! Oh! if mamma was but here
Darling Ethel, dear Ethel, I wish I could comfort you. Come a little
nearer to me, I can't reach you! Dear Ethel, what has gone wrong
Everything
No -- I'm too dirty to come on your white bed;
I forgot, you won't like it
You are wet, you are cold, you are tired
Stay here
and dress, don't go up in the cold. There, sit by the fire pull off your
frock and stockings, and we will send for the others. Let me see you
look comfortable -- there. Now tell me who threw cold water
It was figurative cold water
I was
only silly enough to tell Richard my plan, and it's horrid to talk to
a person who only thinks one high-flying and nonsensical -- and then came
the dirt
But what was the scheme, Ethel
Cocksmoor
I wish we could
It would be an excellent thing. But
how did Richard vex you
I don't know
only he thought it would not do. Perhaps he
said right, but it was coldly, and he smiled
He is too sober-minded for our flights
I know the
feeling of it, Ethel dear; but you know if he did see that some of
your plans might not answer, it is no reason you should not try to do
something at once. You have not told me about the girl
There
there are two ways of helping Cocksmoor already. Could you not make
some clothes for the two grandchildren? I could help you a little,
and then, if they were well clothed, you might get them to come to the
Sunday-school. And as to the twins, I wonder what the hire of a cart
would be to bring the christening party? It is just what Richard could
manage
Yes
but those are only little isolated individual
things
But one must make a beginning
Then, Margaret, you think it was a real vow? You don't think it silly
of me
Ethel, dear, I don't think dear mamma would say we ought to make vows,
except what the church decrees for us. I don't think she would like the
notion of your considering yourself pledged; but I do think, that, after
all you have said and felt about Cocksmoor, and being led there on that
day, it does seem as if we might be intended to make it our especial
charge
Oh, Margaret, I am glad you say so. You always understand
But you know we are so young, that now we have not her to judge for us,
we must only do little things that we are quite sure of, or we shall get
wrong
That's not the way great things were done
I don't know, Ethel; I think great things can't be good unless they
stand on a sure foundation of little ones
Well, I believe Richard was right, and it would not do to begin on
Sunday, but he was so tame; and then my frock, and the horrid deficiency
in those little neatnesses
Perhaps that is good for you in one way; you might get very high-flying
if you had not the discipline of those little tiresome things,
correcting them will help you, and keep your high things from being all
romance. I know dear mamma used to say so; that the trying to conquer
them was a help to you. Oh, here's Mary! Mary, will you get Ethel's
dressing things? She has come home wet-footed and cold, and has been
warming herself by my fire
Dear, dear Ethel, how noble and high she is! But
I am afraid! It is what people call a difficult, dangerous age, and the
grander she is, the greater danger of not managing her rightly. If those
high purposes should run only into romance like mine, or grow out into
eccentricities and unfemininesses, what a grievous pity it would be! And
I, so little older, so much less clever, with just sympathy enough not
to be a wise restraint -- I am the person who has the responsibility, and
oh, what shall I do? Mamma trusted to me to be a mother to them, papa
looks to me, and I so unfit, besides this helplessness. But God sent it,
and put me in my place. He made me lie here, and will raise me up if it
is good, so I trust He will help me with my sisters
Grant me to have a right judgment in all things, and evermore to
rejoice in Thy holy comfort
Oh, Ethel, good-morning, dear! you are come just in time
To take baby
Yes, thank you, she has been very good, but she was tired of lying
here, and I can't move her about
Oh, Margaret, I have such a plan
Margaret, will you see if I can say my lesson
Latin grammar! Margaret, this is really too much for you.
Good-morning, my dears. Ha! Tommy, take your book away, my boy. You must
not inflict that on sister now. There's your regular master, Richard, in
my room, if it is fit for his ears yet. What, the little one here too
How is your arm, papa
Did it keep you awake
Not long -- it set me dreaming though, and a very romantic dream it was,
worthy of Ethel herself
What was it, papa
Oh, it was an odd thing, joining on strangely enough with one I had
three or four and twenty years ago, when I was a young man, hearing
lectures at Edinburgh, and courting
The old dream was the night after a picnic on Arthur's Seat with the
Mackenzies; mamma and Aunt Flora were there. 'Twas a regular boy's
dream, a tournament, or something of that nature, where I was victor,
the queen -- you know who she was -- giving me her token -- a Daisy Chain
That is why you like to call us your Daisy Chain
Did you write it in verse
I think I once saw some
verses like it in her desk
I was in love, and three-and-twenty
Ay, those fixed it in my memory,
perhaps my fancy made it more distinct than it really was. An evening
or two ago I met with them, and that stirred it up I suppose. Last
night came the tournament again, but it was the melee, a sense of being
crushed down, suffocated by the throng of armed knights and horses -- pain
and wounds -- and I looked in vain through the opposing overwhelming
host for my -- my Maggie. Well, I got the worst of it, my sword arm was
broken -- I fell, was stifled -- crushed -- in misery -- all I could do was to
grasp my token -- my Daisy Chain
And, behold, the tumult and despair were passed. I lay on the
grass in the cloisters, and the Daisy Chain hung from the sky, and was
drawing me upwards. There -- it is a queer dream for a sober old country
doctor. I don't know why I told you, don't tell any one again
For he told me his dreams, talked of
eating and drinking
How beautiful
It has been a comfort to him, I am sure
You don't think it ominous
More soothing than anything else. It is what we all feel, is it not?
that this little daisy bud is the link between us and heaven
But about him. He was victor at first -- vanquished the next time
I think -- if it is to have an interpretation, though I am not sure we
ought to take it so seriously, it would only mean that in younger days
people care for victory and distinction in this world, like Norman, or
as papa most likely did then; but, as they grow older, they care less,
and others pass them, and they know it does not signify, for in our race
all may win
But he has a great name. How many people come from a distance to
consult him! he is looked upon, too, in other ways! he can do anything
with the corporation
All this does not sound grand -- it is not as if he had
set up in London
Oh, dear, I am so glad he did not
Shall I tell you what mamma told me he said about it, when Uncle
Mackenzie said he ought? He answered that he thought health and happy
home attachments were a better provision for us to set out in life with
than thousands
I am sure he was right
Then you don't think
the dream meant being beaten, only that our best things are not gained
by successes in this world
Don't go and let it dwell on your mind as a vision
I
think dear mamma would call that silly
I must
despatch him before prayers, I suppose. I've a great mind to say I never
will see any one who won't keep to my days
I can't imagine why they don't
He is always
saying so, but never acting on it. If he would once turn one away, the
rest would mind
There's another ring
Yes, he is caught now, they'll go on in a stream. I shall not keep
Margaret waiting for her breakfast, I shall take it up
de l'humeur
I am sorry
I thought you had
outgrown that habit of disputing over every phrase
I can't tell how a language is to be learned without knowing the
reasons of one's mistakes
That is what you always say, my dear. It is of no use to renew it all,
but I wish you would control yourself. Now, Mary, call Blanche, and you
and Ethel take your arithmetic
Oh, Mary, don't murder it
Murder what
That use of exaggerated language
I've heard papa say it
All that a gentleman may say, may not be a precedent for a young lady;
but you are interrupting Mary
Only let me show her. I can't bear to hear her, listen, Mary.


        "What shall one of us
         That struck the foremost
That is declaiming
It is not what we wish for in a
lady. You are neglecting your work and interfering
See here
I thought you would like to make up this old frock for
one of the Cocksmoor children; but what is the matter
Oh, nothing, only Miss Winter is so tiresome
What was it
Everything, it was all horrid. I was cross, I know, but she and M.
Ballompre made me so
Well, Norman, you are out of breath, sit down and rest. What is doing
at school; are you dux of your class
Yes
What mark for the verses
Quam bene
Not optime
No, they were tame
What is Harry doing
He is fourth in his form. I left him at football
Dinner
What will you have, Margaret
I'll fetch it
Ethel has been poking the fire
Norman, dear, are you sure you are well
Yes, very well
You had better not come racing home. I'm not worth inquiries now, I am
so much better
I don't like you to lose your football
I could not
It would be much better for you
If
you please, Miss Margaret, there is a girl come to see about the place
Her name is Taylor, and she comes from Cocksmoor, but she is a nice,
tidy, strong-looking girl, and she says she has been used to children
If you please, nurse, but if you think she will do, that is enough
Yes, Miss, but you should look to them things yourself. If you please,
I'll bring her up
Charming
that's your capital management, Flora; nurse
thinks she has done it all herself
She is your charge though
coming from your own beloved
Cocksmoor
I have
been thinking of what you said about Miss Winter, and really I don't
know what is to be done
Oh, Margaret, I did not mean to worry you
I like you to tell me everything, dear Ethel; but I don't see clearly
the best course. We must go on with Miss Winter
Of course
We could not get on without her even if I were well
and dear mamma had such perfect trust in her, and we all know
and love her so well -- it would make us put up with a great deal
It is all my own fault
I wish you would not say anything about it
Yes, it does seem wrong even to think of it
when she
has been so very kind. It is a blessing to have any one to whom Mary and
Blanche may so entirely be trusted. But for you
It is my own fault
I don't think it is quite all your own fault
and that
is the difficulty. I know dear mamma thought Miss Winter an excellent
governess for the little ones, but hardly up to you, and she saw that
you worried and fidgeted each other, so, you know, she used to keep the
teaching of you a good deal in her own hands
I did not know that was the reason
Was it not like her
but now, my poor Ethel, I don't
think it would be right by you or by Miss Winter, to take you out of the
school-room. I think it would grieve her
I would not do that for the world
Especially after her kind nursing of me, and even, with more reason, it
would not be becoming in us to make changes. Besides, King Etheldred
we all know you are a little bit of a sloven,
and, as nurse says, some one must be always after you, and do you know?
even if I were well, I had rather it was Miss Winter than me
Oh, no, you would not be formal and precise -- you would not make me
cross
Perhaps you might make me so
or I should let you
alone, and leave you a slattern. We should both hate it so! No, don't
make me your mistress, Ethel dear -- let me be your sister and play-fellow
still, as well as I can
You are, you are. I don't care half so much when I have got you
And will you try to bear with her, and remember it is right in the
main, though it is troublesome
That I will. I won't plague you again. I know it is bad for you, you
look tired
Pray don't leave off telling me
it is just what I
wish on my own account, and I know it is comfortable to have a good
grumble
If it does not hurt you, but I am sure you are not easy now -- are you
Only my back
I have been sitting up longer than
usual, and it is tired. Will you call nurse to lay me flat again
It is of no use
Ethel will give no attention to anything
but her books! I've a great mind to put an end to all the Latin and
Greek! She cares for nothing else
Papa, papa, I do care -- now don't I, Margaret? I did my
best
Don't talk nonsense. Your best, indeed! If you had taken the most
moderate care
I believe Ethel took rather too much care
It will be all right
presently. Never mind, dear papa
My poor Ethel
I am sorry I have made such a fuss
Oh, you did not, it was too bad of me -- I am grieved; are you quite
comfortable now
Yes, quite, only a little headache, which I shall sleep off. It has
been so nice and quiet. Papa took up George Herbert, and has been
reading me choice bits. I don't think I have enjoyed anything so much
since I have been ill
I am glad of that, but I have been unhappy all the evening. I wish I
knew what to do. I am out of heart about everything
Only try to mind and heed, and you will learn. It will be a step if you
will only put your shoes side by side when you take them off
Don't grieve about me,
but put your clever head to rule your hands, and you will do for home
and Cocksmoor too. Good-night, dearest
I've vexed papa
Papa
here's poor Ethel, not half recovered from her
troubles
Ah! we must send her to the infant-school, to learn 'this is my right
hand, and this is my left
I was very stupid
Poor child
she is worse off than I am. If I have but
one hand left, she has two left hands
I do mean to try, papa
Yes, you must, Ethel. I believe I was hasty with you, my poor girl. I
was vexed, and we have no one to smooth us down. I am sorry, my dear,
but you must bear with me, for I never learned her ways with you when I
might. We will try to have more patience with each other
Tis not enough that Greek or Roman page
      At stated hours, his freakish thoughts engage,
      Even in his pastimes he requires a friend
      To warn and teach him safely to unbend,
      O'er all his pleasures gently to preside,
      Watch his emotions, and control their tide
I am sorry; this is the first time you ever have not managed so as to
make a real holiday of your Saturday
I could not help it, and there's nothing to do
I promised to go and read to Margaret while Flora does her music
I shall come after that and do my Latin and Greek with you
Halloo! Norman, that was a jump
You'll jump out of your skin some of these days,
if you don't take care
It's enough to startle any one to be waked up with such a noise
Then he ought to sleep at proper times
and not be waking
me up with tumbling about, and hallooing out, and talking in his sleep
half the night
Talking in his sleep! why, just now, you said he did not sleep
Harry knows nothing about it
Don't I? Well, I only know, if you slept in school, and were a junior,
you would get a proper good licking for going on as you do at night
And I think you might chance to get a proper good licking for not
holding your tongue
Where can he be going
I know
Where? Do tell me
Only don't tell papa. I went down with him to the playground this
morning, and there they settled it. The Andersons, and Axworthy, and he,
are going to hire a gun, and shoot pee-wits on Cocksmoor
But they ought not; should they
Papa would be very
angry
Anderson said there was no harm in it, but Harry told me not to tell.
Indeed, Anderson would have boxed my ears for hearing, when I could not
help it
But Harry would not let him
Ay. Harry is quite a match for Harvey Anderson, though he is so much
younger; and he said he would not have me bullied
That's a good Harry! But I wish he would not go out shooting
Mind, you don't tell
And where's Hector Ernescliffe? Would not he go
No. I like Hector. He did not choose to go, though Anderson teased him,
and said he was a poor Scot, and his brother didn't allow him tin enough
to buy powder and shot. If Harry would have stayed at home, he would
have come up here, and we might have had some fun in the garden
I wish he would. We never have any fun now
but oh! there
he is
not very
Poor things, a little thorough play will do
them a great deal of good
just one mile on the turnpike road and back
again; he would be much fresher for his Greek afterwards
There's no one who does see what
is the right thing. How horrid the room looks! Everything is nohow
What's wrong
Oh, never mind -- you can't do it. Don't try -- you'll only make it worse.
It will never be the same as long as we live
I wish you would not be so unhappy
Never mind
Have you done your Euripides? Can I help you? Will you construe it with
me, or shall I look out your words
Thank you, I don't mind that. It is the verses! I want some sense
Tis such a horrid subject, Coral Islands! As if there was anything to
be said about them
Dear me, Norman, I could say ten thousand things, only I must not tell
you what mine are, as yours are not done
No, don't
Did you read the description of them in the Quarterly? I am sure you
might get some ideas there. Shall I find it for you? It is in an old
number
Well, do; thank you
Nasty little brutes
Only three weeks to the holidays
I should have told mamma directly
He never did so
things never went wrong then
Oh, yes, they did; don't you remember how naughty Harry was about
climbing the wall, and making faces at Mrs. Richardson's servants
And how ill I behaved the first day of last Christmas holidays
She knew, but I don't think she told papa
Not that we knew of, but I believe she did tell him everything, and I
think, Flora, he ought to know everything, especially now. I never could
bear the way the Mackenzies used to have of thinking their parents must
be like enemies, and keeping secrets from them
They were always threatening each other, 'I'll tell mamma
and calling us tell-tales because we told our own dear mamma
everything. But it is not like that now -- I neither like to worry papa,
nor to bring Harry into disgrace -- besides, Tom and Mary meant it for a
secret
Papa would not be angry with him if we told him it was a secret
I wish Harry would come in. There's the door -- oh! it is only
you
Whom did you expect
He is come in
I saw him running up to his own room,
very muddy
Oh, I'm glad! But do you think papa ought to hear it? I don't know
what's to be done. 'Tis the children's secret
It will never do to have him going out with those boys continually
Harvey Anderson close by all the holidays
I'll try what I can do with him
Papa had better not
hear it now, at any rate. He is very tired and sad this evening! and
his arm is painful again, so we must not worry him with histories of
naughtiness among the children
No
I am glad you were there, Ritchie; I never
should have thought of one time being better than another
Just like Ethel
Why should not you learn
I can't
Why not? You are much sharper than most people, and, if you tried, you
would know those things much better than I do, as you know how to learn
history
It is quite a different sort of cleverness
Recollect Sir
Isaac Newton, or Archimedes
Then you must have both sorts
for you can do things
nicely, and yet you learn very fast
Take care, Ethel, you are singeing your frock! Well, I really don't
think you can help those things
Your short sight is the
reason of it, and it is of no use to try to mend it
Don't tell her so
It can't be all short sight -- it is
the not thinking. I do believe that if Ethel would think, no one would
do things so well. Don't you remember the beautiful perspective drawing
she made of this room for me to take to Oxford? That was very difficult,
and wanted a great deal of neatness and accuracy, so why should she not
be neat and accurate in other things? And I know you can read faces,
Ethel -- why don't you look there before you speak
Ah! before instead of after, when I only see I have said something
malapropos
I must go and see about the children
if the tea comes
while I am gone, will you make it, Ritchie
Flora despairs of me
I don't
Have you forgotten how to put in a pin yet
No; I hope not
Well, then, see if you can't learn to make tea; and, by-the-bye, Ethel,
which is the next christening Sunday
The one after next, surely. The first of December is Monday -- yes,
to-morrow week is the next
Then I have thought of something; it would cost eighteenpence to hire
Joliffe's spring-cart, and we might have Mrs. Taylor and the twins
brought to church in it. Should you like to walk to Cocksmoor and settle
it
Oh yes, very much indeed. What a capital thought. Margaret said you
would know how to manage
Then we will go the first fine day papa does not want me
I wonder if I could finish my purple frocks. But here's the tea. Now,
Richard, don't tell me to make it. I should do something wrong, and
Flora will never forgive you
Ah
it makes one hotter than double equations
I have not got it
The
foul copy was not like these; but when I was writing them out quite
late, it was all I don't know how. Flora's music was in my ears, and the
room seemed to get larger, and like an ocean cave; and when the candle
flickered, 'twas like the green glowing light of the sun through the
waves
As it says here
And the words all came to me of themselves in beautiful flowing Latin,
just right, as if it was anybody but myself doing it, and they ran off
my pen in red and blue and gold, and all sorts of colours; and fine
branching zig-zagging stars, like what the book described, only
stranger, came dancing and radiating round my pen and the candle. I
could hardly believe the verses would scan by daylight, but I can't find
a mistake. Do you try them again
I see nothing wrong
but it seems a shame to
begin scanning Undine's verses, they are too pretty. I wish I could copy
them. It must have been half a dream
I believe it was; they don't seem like my own
Did you dream afterwards
They had got into my head too much; my ears sang like the
roaring of the sea, and I thought my feet were frozen on to an iceberg:
then came darkness, and sea monsters, and drowning -- it was too horrid
But 'tis a
quarter to seven -- we must go
You are sure they are right, Ethel? Harry, come along
No; only
Dr. Hoxton said they were better than usual
Your boy has more of a poet
in him than any that has come in my way. He really sometimes makes very
striking verses
I'll walk back to school with you
I mean to run
Is there so much hurry
I am sorry for it, for I wanted
to speak to you, Harry; I have something to show you
Very well
I'll come into your room
It is a
bit of a letter that she was in course of writing to Aunt Flora, a
description of us all. The letter itself is gone, but here is a copy of
it. I thought you would like to read what relates to yourself
Well! be it you, sir, and the young lady
Yes; here we are come to see you again
I hope you are
not disappointed that I've brought my sister this time instead of the
doctor
No, no, sir; I've done with the doctor for this while
He have done me a power of good, and
thank him for it heartily; but the young lady is right welcome here -- but
'tis a dirty walk for her
Never mind that
I came -- where are your
grandchildren
Oh, somewhere out among the blocks. They gets out with the other
children; I can't be always after them
I wanted to know if these would fit them
Well, 'pon my word! If ever I see! Here
Polly -- Jenny! come in, I say, this moment! Come in, ye bad girls, or
I'll give you the stick; I'll break every bone of you, that I will
I'll find some one if that's all; my missus always thinks nobody can't
do nothing
To be sure
all the elder ones was
took to church, and I'm loath the little ones shouldn't; but you see,
sir, we are poor people, and it's a long way, and they was set down in
the gentleman's register book
But you know that is not the same, Mrs. Taylor. Surely Lucy could have
told you that, when she went to school
No, sir, 'tis not the same -- I knows that; but this is a bad place to
live in
Always the old song, missus
Thank you kindly,
sir -- you have been a good friend to us, and so was Dr. May, when I was
up to the hospital, through the thick of his own troubles. I believe you
are in the right of it, sir, and thank you. The children shall be ready,
and little Jack too, and I'll find gossips, and let 'em christened on
Sunday
I believe you will be glad of it
And his wife is such a horrible whining dawdle
there will be no good to be done if it depends on her
I have been thinking a great deal about what you said last time we took
this walk
Oh, have you
Do you really mean it
Yes, to be sure
Because I think I see a way to make a beginning, but you must make
up your mind to a great deal of trouble, and dirty walks, and you must
really learn not to draggle your frock
Well, well; but tell me
This is what I was thinking. I don't think I can go back to Oxford
after Christmas. It is not fit to leave you while papa is so disabled
Oh no, he could not get on at all. I heard him tell Mr. Wilmot the
other day that you were his right hand
He is very kind
No, I am sure I cannot be spared
till he is better able to use his arm, and I don't see any chance
of that just yet. Then if I stay at home, Friday is always at my own
disposal, while papa is at the hospital meeting
Yes, yes, and we could go to Cocksmoor, and set up a school. How
delightful
I don't think you would find it quite so delightful as you fancy
the children will be very wild and ignorant, and you don't
like that at the National School
Oh, but they are in such need, besides there will be no Mrs. Ledwich
over me. It is just right -- I shan't mind anything. You are a capital
Ritchie, for having thought of it
I don't think -- if I am ever to be what I wish, that is, if I can get
through at Oxford -- I don't think it can be wrong to begin this, if Mr.
Ramsden does not object
Oh, Mr. Ramsden never objects to anything
And if Mr. Wilmot will come and set us off. You know we cannot begin
without that, or without my father's fully liking it
Oh! there can be no doubt of that
This one thing, Ethel, I must stipulate. Don't you go and tell it all
out at once to him. I cannot have him worried about our concerns
But how -- no one can question that this is right. I am sure he won't
object
Stop, Ethel, don't you see, it can't be done for nothing? If we
undertake it, we must go on with it, and when I am away it will fall on
you and Flora. Well, then, it ought to be considered whether you are
old enough and steady enough; and if it can be managed for you to go
continually all this way, in this wild place. There will be expense
too
It will worry him to have to consider all this
and it
must not be pressed upon him
No
but you don't mean to give it up
You are always in extremes, Ethel. All I want is to find a good time
for proposing it
Mind
I'll have nothing to do with it
except on condition you are patient, and hold your tongue about it
I think I can, if I may talk to Margaret
Oh yes, to Margaret of course. We could not settle anything without her
help
And I know what she will say
Oh, I am so glad
And, Ethel, you must learn to keep your frock out of the dirt
I'll do anything, if you'll help me at Cocksmoor
Is Richard come in? pray call him
Oh,
Richard, would you be so kind as to take this to the bank. I don't like
to send it by any one else -- it is so much
What, he has given you the care of his money
Yes; I saw him turning something out of his waistcoat-pocket into the
drawer of the looking-glass, and sighing in that very sad way. He said
his fees had come to such an accumulation that he must see about sending
them to the bank; and then he told me of the delight of throwing his
first fee into dear mamma's lap, when they were just married, and his
old uncle had given up to him, and how he had brought them to her ever
since; he said she had spoiled him by taking all trouble off his hands.
He looked at it, as if it was so sorrowful to him to have to dispose
of it, that I begged him not to plague himself any more, but let me see
about it, as dear mamma used to do; so he said I was spoiling him too,
but he brought me the drawer, and emptied it out here: when he was gone,
I packed it up, and I have been waiting to ask Richard to take it all to
the bank, out of his sight
You counted it
Yes -- there's fifty -- I kept seventeen towards the week's expenses. Just
see that it is right
Oh, Ritchie
what can expense signify, when all that has
been kicking about loose in an open drawer? What would not one of those
rolls do
I think I had better take them out of your way
Am I to bring back the book to you, Margaret
Yes, do
pray do not tease him with it
I wish he was better. I think he
is more oppressed now than even at first. The pain of his arm, going on
so long, seems to me to have pulled him down; it does not let him sleep,
and, by the end of the day, he gets worn and fagged by seeing so many
people, and exerting himself to talk and think; and often, when there is
something that must be asked, I don't know how to begin, for it seems as
if a little more would be too much for him
Yes, Richard is right
it will not do to press
him about our concerns; but do you think him worse to-day
He did not sleep last night, and he is always worse when he does not
drive out into the country; the fresh air, and being alone with Richard,
are a rest for him. To-day is especially trying; he does not think poor
old Mr. Southern will get through the evening, and he is so sorry for
the daughter
Is he there now
Yes; he thought of something that might be an alleviation, and he would
go, though he was tired. I am afraid the poor daughter will detain him,
and he is not fit to go through such things now
No, I hope he will soon come; perhaps Richard will meet him. But, oh,
Margaret, what do you think Richard and I have been talking of
Hark! was not
that his step
Well
I was just too late. He died as I got there, and I
could not leave the daughter till old Mrs. Bowers came
Poor thing
He was a good old man
Yes
One can't lightly part with a man one has seen at church every
Sunday of one's life, and exchanged so many friendly words with over
his counter. 'Tis a strong bond of neighbourliness in a small place like
this, and, as one grows old, changes come heavier --'the clouds return
again after the rain.' Thank you, my dear
Papa, you will give me the treat of drinking tea with me
Thank you
Oh, Ethel, how could you leave it so
I was in a hurry, looking for something for Norman. I'll set it to
rights
My dear
what are you doing?
piling up those heavy books on the top of the little ones; how do you
think they will ever stand? let me do it
No, no, Flora
He is going to teach her to do it on the principles of gravitation
I managed nicely for her. I would
not let M. Ballompre blunder upon any of the subjects Ethel feels too
deeply to talk of in good French, and really Ethel has a great talent
for languages. How fast she gets on with Italian
That she does
Suppose you send her up, Flora -- you
must want to go and draw or practice, and she may do her arithmetic
here, or read to me
I practise in the evening
and I could draw here, if I
wished, but I have some music to copy
You know, dear Flora
I need not take up
all your time now
Don't regret that
I like nothing so well as waiting on
you, and I can attend to my own affairs very well here
I'll tell you why I proposed it
I think it would be a
relief for Ethel to escape from Miss Winter's beloved Friday questions
Great nonsense they are
Why don't you tell Miss Winter
they are of no use
Mamma never interfered with them
She only kept Ethel
in her own hands, and if you would be so kind as to change sometimes
and sit in the school-room, we could spare Ethel, without hurting Miss
Winter's feelings
Well, I'll call Ethel, if you like, but I shall go and practise in the
drawing-room. The old school-room piano is fit for nothing but Mary to
hammer upon
Oh, Margaret, I am so glad to come to you. Miss Winter has set Mary to
read 'To be, or not to be,' and it would have driven me distracted
to have stayed there. I have got a most beautiful sum in Compound
Proportion, about a lion, a wolf, and a bear eating up a carcase, and as
soon as they have done it, you shall hear me say my ancient geography,
and then we will do a nice bit of Tasso; and if we have any time after
that, I have got such a thing to tell you -- only I must not tell you now,
or I shall go on talking and not finish my lessons
Now
for what I have been longing to tell you -- Richard is going to
I should have been very glad of you last evening
for papa
went to sleep, and my book was out of reach
Oh, I am sorry; how I pity you, poor Margaret
I suppose I have grown lazy
for I don't mind
those things now. I am never sorry for a quiet time to recollect and
consider
It must be like the waiting in the dark between the slides of a magic
lantern
I never like to be quiet. I get so unhappy
I am glad of resting and recollecting
It has all been
so like a dream, that merry morning, and then, slowly waking to find
myself here in dear mamma's place, and papa watching over me. Sometimes
I think I have not half understood what it really is, and that I don't
realise, that if I was up and about, I should find the house without
her
Yes; that is the aching part
I am happy, sitting on her
bed here with you. You are a little of her, besides being my own dear
Peg-top! You are very lucky to miss the mealtimes and the evenings
That is the reason I don't feel it wrong to like to have papa sitting
with me all the evening
though it may make it worse
for you to have him away. I don't think it selfish in me to keep him. He
wants quiet so much, or to talk a little when it suits him; we are too
many now, when he is tired
Oh, it is best
Nothing that you do is selfish -- don't
talk of it, dear Margaret. It will be something like old times when you
come down again
But all this time you are not telling me what I want so much to hear
about Cocksmoor. I am so glad Richard has taken it up
That he has. We are to go every Friday, and hire a room, and teach the
children. Once a week will do a great deal, if we can but make them wish
to learn. It is a much better plan than mine; for if they care about it,
they can come to school here on Sunday
It is excellent
and if he is at home till Easter, it
will give it a start, and put you in the way of it, and get you through
the short days and dark evenings, when you could not so well walk home
without him
Yes, and then we can all teach; Flora, and Mary, and you, when you
are well again. Richard says it will be disagreeable, but I don't think
so -- they are such unsophisticated people. That Granny Hall is such a
funny old woman; and the whole place wants nothing but a little care, to
do very well
You must prepare for disappointments, dear Ethel
I know; I know nothing is done without drawbacks; but I am so glad to
make some beginning
So am I. Do you know, mamma and I were one day talking over those kind
of things, and she said she had always regretted that she had so many
duties at home, that she could not attend as much to the poor as she
would like; but she hoped now we girls were growing up, we should be
able to do more.

"Did she
I've been wanting to tell you. I knew you would like to hear it. It
seems to set us to work so happily
I only wish we could begin
but Richard is so slow! Of
course we can't act without papa's consent and Mr. Wilmot's help, and he
says papa must not be worried about it, he must watch for his own time
to speak about it
I know -- I would not have it otherwise; but what is tiresome is this.
Richard is very good, but he is so dreadfully hard to stir up, and
what's worse, so very much afraid of papa, that while he is thinking
about opportunities, they will all go by, and then it will be Easter,
and nothing done
He is not so much afraid of papa as he was
He has
felt himself useful and a comfort, and papa is gentler; and that has
cheered him out of the desponding way that kept him back from proposing
anything
Perhaps
but I wish it was you. Can't you? you always
know how to manage
No; it is Richard's affair, and he must do as he thinks fit. Don't
sigh, dear Ethel -- perhaps he may soon speak, and, if not, you can be
preparing in a quiet way all the time. Don't you remember how dear mamma
used to tell us that things, hastily begun, never turn out well
But this is not hasty. I've been thinking about it these six weeks
If one does nothing but think, it is all no better than a
vision. I want to be doing
Well, you can be doing -- laying a sound foundation
The
more you consider, and the wiser you make yourself, the better it will
be when you do set to work
You mean by curing myself of my slovenly ways and impatient temper
I don't know that I was exactly thinking of that
but
that ought to be the way. If we are not just the thing in our niche at
home, I don't think we can do much real good elsewhere
It would be hollow, show-goodness
Yes, that is true;
and it comes across me now, and then what a horrid wretch I am, to be
wanting to undertake so much, when I leave so much undone. But, do you
know, Margaret, there's no one such a help in those ways as Richard.
Though he is so precise, he is never tiresome. He makes me see things,
and do them neatly, without plaguing me, and putting me in a rage. I'm
not ready to bite off my own fingers, or kick all the rattle-traps over
and leave them, as I am when Miss Winter scolds me, or nurse, or even
Flora sometimes; but it is as if I was gratifying him, and his funny
little old bachelor tidyisms divert me; besides, he teaches me the
theory, and never lays hold of my poor fingers, and, when they won't
bend the wrong way, calls them frogs
He is a capital master for you
If he would only read our books, and enter into poetry and delight
in it; but it is all nonsense to him
I can't think how
people can be so different; but, oh! here he comes. Ritchie, you should
not come upon us before we are aware
What? I should have heard no good of myself
Great good
she was telling me you would make a
neat-handed woman of her in time
I don't see why she should not be as neat as other people
Has she been telling you our plan
I am so glad you
have taken it up, not only for the sake of Cocksmoor, but of Ethel. It
is good for her not to spend her high soul in dreams
I am afraid she does not know what she undertakes
She does not; but you will keep her from being turned back. It is just
the thing to prevent her energies from running to waste, and her being
so much with you, and working under you, is exactly what one would have
chosen
By contraries
That is what I was afraid of. I
don't half understand or follow her, and when I think a thing nonsense,
I see you all calling it very fine, and I don't know what to make of
it
You are making yourself out more dull than you are
I know I am stupid, and seem tame and cold
and you
are the only one that does not care about it. That is what makes me wish
Norman was the eldest. If I were as clever as he, I could do so much
with Ethel, and be so much more to papa
No, you would not. You would have other things in your head. You would
not be the dear, dear old Ritchie that you are. You would not be a calm,
cautious, steady balance to the quicksilver heads some of us have got.
No, no, Norman's a very fine fellow, a very dear fellow, but he would
not do half so well for our eldest -- he is too easily up, and down
again
And I am getting into my old way of repining
I don't
mind so much, since my father has at least one son to be proud of, and I
can be of some use to him now
Of the greatest, and to all of us. I am so glad you can stay after
Christmas, and papa was pleased at your offering, and said he could not
spare you at all, though he would have tried, if it had been any real
advantage to you
Well, I hope he will approve. I must speak to him as soon as I can find
him with his mind tolerably disengaged
Margaret, I wanted to speak
to you
I want you to speak to papa about my going to sea. It is
high time to see about it -- I shall be thirteen on the fourth of May
And you mean it seriously, Harry
Yes, of course I do, really and truly; and if it is to come to pass, it
is time to take measures. Don't you see, Margaret
It is time, as you say
I know what you will all tell me, that it is a hard life, but I must
get my own living some way or other, and I should like that way the
best
Should you like to be always far from home
I should come home sometimes, and bring such presents to Mary, and
baby, and all of you; and I don't know what else to be, Margaret. I
should hate to be a doctor -- I can't abide sick people; and I couldn't
write sermons, so I can't be a clergyman; and I won't be a lawyer, I
vow, for Harvey Anderson is to be a lawyer -- so there's nothing left but
soldiers and sailors, and I mean to be a sailor
Well, Harry, you may do your duty, and try to do right, if you are a
sailor, and that is the point
Ay, I was sure you would not set your face against it, now you know
Alan Ernescliffe
If you were to be like him
Then you will ask papa about it
You had better do so yourself. Boys had better settle such serious
affairs with their fathers, without setting their sisters to interfere.
What's the matter, Harry -- you are not afraid to speak to papa
Only for one thing
Margaret, I went out to shoot
pee-wits last Saturday with two fellows, and I can't speak to papa while
that's on my mind
Then you had better tell him at once
I knew you would say so; but it would be like a girl, and it would be
telling of the two fellows
Not at all; papa would not care about them
You see
I knew I ought not; but they
said I was afraid of a gun, and that I had no money. Now I see that was
chaff, but I didn't then, and Norman wasn't there
I am so glad you have told me all this, Harry dear, for I knew you had
been less at home of late, and I was almost afraid you were not going on
quite well
That's what it is
I can't stand things at all, and I
can't go moping about as Norman does. I can't live without fun, and now
Norman isn't here, half the time it turns to something I am sorry for
afterwards
But, Harry, if you let yourself be drawn into mischief here for want of
Norman, what would you do at sea
I should be an officer
I am afraid
that would not make much
difference inside, though it might outside. You must get the
self-control, and leave off being afraid to be said to be afraid
I should start fresh, and be out of the way of the
Andersons
That Anderson junior is a horrid fellow -- he spites
Norman, and he bullied me, till I was big enough to show him that it
would not do -- and though I am so much younger, he is afraid of me.
He makes up to me, and tries to get me into all the mischief that is
going
And you know that, and let him lead you? Oh, Harry
I don't let him lead me
but I won't have
them say I can't do things
There never was a May in
disgrace yet, and there never shall be
That is a thing to be very thankful for
but you know
there may be much harm without public disgrace. I never heard of one of
the Andersons being in disgrace yet
No -- shabby fellows, that just manage to keep fair with old Hoxton, and
make a show
They look at translations, and copy old stock
verses. Oh, it was such fun the other day. What do you think? Norman
must have been dreaming, for he had taken to school, by mistake,
Richard's old Gradus that Ethel uses, and there were ever so many rough
copies of hers sticking in it
Poor Ethel! What consternation she would be in! I hope no one found it
out
Why, Anderson junior was gaping about in despair for sense for his
verses -- he comes on that, and slyly copies a whole set of her old ones,
done when she -- Norman, I mean -- was in the fifth form. His subject was
a river, and hers Babylon; but, altering a line or two, it did just as
well. He never guessed I saw him, and thought he had done it famously.
He showed them up, and would have got some noted good mark, but that, by
great good luck, Ethel had made two of her pentameters too short, which
he hadn't the wit to find out, thinking all Norman did must be right. So
he has shown up a girl's verses -- isn't that rare
I hope no one knows they were hers
Bless you, no
D'ye think I could tell? No, that's the only
pity, that he can't hear it; but, after all, I don't care for anything
he does, now I know he has shown up a girl's verses
Are these verses of poor Ethel's safe at home
Yes, I took care of that. Mind you don't tell anyone, Margaret; I never
told even Norman
But all your school-fellows aren't like these? You have Hector
Ernescliffe
He's a nice fellow enough, but he is little, and down in the school.
'Twould be making a fourth form of myself to be after him. The fact is,
Margaret, they are a low, ungentlemanly lot just now, about sixth
and upper fifth form
and since Norman has been less amongst them, they've
got worse; and you see, now home is different, and he isn't like what he
was, I'm thrown on them, and I want to get out of it. I didn't know that
was it before, but Richard showed me what set me on thinking of it, and
I see she knew all about it
That she did! There is a great deal in what you say, Harry, but you
know she thought nothing would be of real use but changing within.
If you don't get a root of strength in yourself, your ship will be no
better to you than school -- there will be idle midshipmen as well as idle
school-boys
Yes, I know
but do you think papa will consent? She
would not have minded
I can't tell. I should think he would; but if any scheme is to come to
good, it must begin by your telling him of the going out shooting
I'd have done it long ago if she was here
I
never did anything so bad before without telling, and I don't like it at
all. It seems to come between him and me when I wish him good-night
Then, Harry, pray do tell him. You'll have no comfort if you don't
I know I shan't; but then he'll be so angry! And, do you know,
Margaret, 'twas worse than I told you, for a covey of partridges got up,
and unluckily I had got the gun, and I fired and killed one, and that
was regular poaching, you know! And when we heard some one coming, how
we did cut! Ax -- the other fellow, I mean, got it, and cooked it in his
bedroom, and ate it for supper; and he laughs about it, but I have felt
so horrid all the week! Suppose a keeper had got a summons
I can only say again, the only peace will be in telling
Yes; but he will be so angry. When that lot of fellows a year or two
ago did something like it, and shot some of the Abbotstoke rabbits,
don't you remember how much he said about its being disgraceful, and
ordering us never to have anything to do with their gunnery? And he will
think it so very bad to have gone out on a lark just now! Oh, I wish I
hadn't done it
So do I, indeed, Harry! but I am sure, even it he should be angry at
first, he will be pleased with your confessing
Come, Harry
if he is ever so angry, though
I don't think he will be, do you think that will be half as bad as this
load at your heart? Besides, if you are not bold enough to speak to him,
do you think you can ever be brave enough for a sailor
I will
Harry here? This is company I did not expect
Harry has something to say to you, papa
Eh! my boy, what is it
Papa, I have killed a partridge. Two fellows got me to hire a gun, and
go out shooting with them last Saturday
We meant only to go after pee-wits,
but a partridge got up, and I killed it
And he could not be happy till he had told
you
Is it so? Is that the whole
Yes, papa
Only that
I know --'twas very wrong -- especially now -- and I am very sorry -- and I beg
your pardon
That's mamma's own brave boy
Take care of my arm
No harm done
I was only a little in dread of such
a young lion! Comeback, Harry
It was a bad
piece of work, and it will never do for you to let yourself be drawn
into every bit of mischief that is on foot; I believe I ought to
give you a good lecture on it, but I can't do it, after such a
straightforward confession. You must have gone through enough in the
last week, not to be likely to do it again
Yes, papa -- thank you
I suppose I must not ask you any questions about it, for fear of
betraying the fellows
Thank you, papa
Well, what now, boy? You have your
head full of something -- what's coming next
Papa will you let me be a sailor
Oh
that is come on again, is it? I thought that you
had forgotten all that
No, papa
it was not a mere fancy, and I have never had
it out of my head. I mean it quite in earnest -- I had rather be a sailor.
I don't wish to get away from Latin and Greek, I don't mind them; but
I think I could be a better sailor than anything. I know it is not all
play, but I am willing to rough it; and I am getting so old, it is time
to see about it, so will you consent to it, papa
Well! there's some sense in your way of putting it
You
have it strong in your head then, and you know 'tis not all fair-weather
work
That I do; Alan told me histories, and I've read all about it; but one
must rough it anywhere, and if I am ever so far away, I'll try not to
forget what's right. I'll do my duty, and not care for danger
Well said, my man; but remember 'tis easier talking by one's own
fireside than doing when the trial comes
And will you let me, papa
I'll think about it. I can't make up my mind as 'quick as directly,'
you know, Harry
but I won't treat
it as a boy's fancy, for you've spoken in a manly way, and deserve to
be attended to. Now run down, and tell the girls to put away their work,
for I shall come down in a minute to read prayers
That's a fine fellow! So
this is what comes of bringing sick sailors home -- one's own boys must be
catching the infection. Little monkey, he talks as wisely as if he were
forty! He is really set on it, do you think, Margaret? I'm afraid so
I think so
I don't think he ever has it out of his
mind
And when the roving spirit once lays hold of a lad, he must have his
way -- he is good for nothing else
I suppose a man may keep from evil in that profession as well as in any
other
Aha! you are bit too, are you
tis the husbandman
and viper, is it
Dear mamma did not think it would be a bad thing for him
I know
but it never came to this with
her
I wish he had chosen something else; but
Well, I'll set Ritchie to write
to Ernescliffe, and hear what he says. What must be, must be. 'Tis only
asking me to give up the boy, that's all
Oh, Maggie,
Maggie
Please ma'am, they said they would not come
a horrid, vile, false, hypocritical old creature! It was
no use having anything more to do with her
Very well
then I need not speak to my father
Ritchie now! you know I meant no such thing
You know, it is just what will happen continually
Of course there will be failures, but this is so abominable, when they
had those nice frocks, and those two beautiful eighteen-penny shawls!
There are three shillings out of my pound thrown away
Perhaps there was some reason to prevent them. We will go and see
We shall only hear some more palavering. I want to have no more to say
to
shepherd boy, ruddy, and of a fair countenance
So Tom and Blanche
can you tell me how we may be like
the shepherd-boy, David
There aren't giants now
Wrong is a giant
Right, my white May-flower, and what then
We are to fight
Yes, and mind, the giant with all his armour may be some great thing we
have to do: but what did David begin with when he was younger
The lion and the bear
Ay, and minding his sheep. Perhaps little things, now you are little
children, may be like the lion and the bear -- so kill them off -- get rid
of them -- cure yourself of whining or dawdling, or whatever it be,
and mind your sheep well
and if you do,
you will not find it near so hard to deal with your great giant struggle
when it comes
Here it is, Harry; papa said you were to have it, and
consider it well, and let him know, when you had taken time. You must do
it soberly. It is once for all
Would you mind my kissing you,
dear Harry
Pray that you may choose right
I can scarcely say he gave any direct advice
He would
not have thought that called for. He said, no doubt there were hardships
and temptations, more or less, according to circumstances; but weighing
one thing with another, he thought it gave as fair a chance of happiness
as other professions, and the discipline and regularity had been very
good for himself, as well as for many others he had known. He said, when
a man is willing to go wrong there is much to help him, but when he is
resolved on doing right, he need not be prevented
That is what you may say of anything
Just so; and it answered papa's question, whether it was exposing Harry
to more temptation than he must meet with anywhere. That was the reason
it was such a comfort to have anyone to write to, who understands it so
well
Yes, and knows Harry's nature
He said he had been fortunate in his captains, and had led, on the
whole, a happy life at sea; and he thought if it was so with him, Harry
was likely to enjoy it more, being of a hardy adventurous nature, and a
sailor from choice, not from circumstances
Then he advised for it? I did not think he would; you know he will not
let Hector be a sailor
He told me he thought only a strong natural bent that way made it
desirable, and that he believed Hector only wished it from imitation of
him. He said too, long ago, that he thought Harry cut out for a sailor.

"A spirited fellow
He is up to
anything, afraid of nothing, he can lick any boy in the school already.
It will be worse than ever without him
Yes, you will miss your constant follower. He has been your shadow
ever since he could walk. But there's the clock, I must not keep you any
longer; good-bye, Norman
Well
It is all right
June
I wish you were going too. I should not
mind it half so much if you were
Nonsense, Harry! you want to be July after June all your life, do you?
You'll be much more of a man without me
We shall not think a bit the worse of
you; better now, than too late
I did not think you would care so much, papa; I won't
go, if you do
You must not give it up on that account, my dear
I should not let you see this, if it did not happen at a time
when I can't command myself as I ought. If you were an only son, it
might be your duty to stay; being one of many, 'tis nonsense to make a
rout about parting with you. If it is better for you, it is better for
all of us; and we shall do very well when you are once fairly gone.
Don't let that influence you for a moment
Then, papa, I choose the navy
Then it is done, Harry. You have chosen in a dutiful, unselfish spirit,
and I trust it will prosper with you; for I am sure your father's
blessing -- aye, and your mother's too, go with you! Now then
go and call Richard. I want him to write to Ernescliffe about
that naval school. You must take your leave of the Whichcote foundation
on Friday. I shall go and give Dr. Hoxton notice tomorrow, and get Tom's
name down instead
But I am afraid, Mrs. Hall
if you served them so, they would never be
able to get to school at all, poor things
Bless you, sir, d'ye think I'd ever lay a finger near them; it's only
the way one must talk to children, you see
Perhaps they have found that out
ay, ay, that they
have, the lasses -- they be sharp enough for anything, that they be. Why,
when I tell little Jenny that there's the black man coming after her,
what does she do but she ups and says, 'Granny, I know 'tis only the
wind in the chimney
Then I don't think it seems to answer
Just suppose you
were to try for once, really punishing them when they won't obey you,
perhaps they would do it next time
Why, sir, you see I don't like to take the stick to them; they've got
no mother, you see, sir
I think it would be kinder to do it for once. What do you think they
will do as they grow older, if you don't keep them in order when they
are little
If you please, miss, I wanted to speak to you. I have got a little girl
here, and I want to send her to school, only I have no shoes for her
Why, surely, if she can run about here on the heath, she can go to
school
Oh! but there is all the other children to point at her. The poor thing
would be daunted, you see, miss; if I could but get some friend to give
her a pair of shoes, I'd send her in a minute. I want her to get some
learning; as I am always saying, I'd never keep her away, if I had
but got the clothes to send her in. I never lets her be running on the
common, like them Halls, as it's a shame to see them in nice frocks, as
Mrs. Hall got by going hypercriting about
What is your name
Watts, if you please, sir; we heard there was good work up here, sir,
and so we came; but I'd never have set foot in it if I had known what a
dark heathenish place it is, with never a Gospel minister to come near
it
You will soon get her clothed if she comes
regularly to school on Sundays, for she will be admitted into the club;
I will recommend her if she has a good character and comes regularly.
Good-morning, Mrs. Watts. Now we must go, or it will be dark before we
get home
Horrid woman
But Flora
why would you not let me give the
little girl my boots
Perhaps I may, if she is good and comes to school, said Flora.

"I think Margaret ought to settle what you do with your boots
It is the same
If I approve, Margaret will not object
How well you helped us out, Flora
I did not know in the
least what to say
It will be the best way of testing her sincerity, said Flora; and at
least it will do the child good; but I congratulate you on the promising
aspect of Cocksmoor
We did not expect to find a perfect place
if it were, it
would be of no use to go to it
I mean to try
say no more about it, pray
No wonder
But
never mind, Ethel, if he only beats Anderson, I don't care for anything
else
Oh, it will be unbearable if he does not! Do try, Norman, dear
Never you mind
He'll light up at the last moment
Dux!
James, he is Dux! Hurrah! Flossy, Ethel, Mary! There stands the Dux of
Stoneborough! Where's papa
Sent for to Whitford. But oh! Norman, Dux! Is he really
To be sure, but I must tell Margaret
But is it, is it true, Norman
Yes
But what was it for? How is it
I don't know
What's the matter
Are you tired, Norman, dear, does your
head ache
Yes
Won't you come to Margaret
Ah
he is regularly done for.
He ought to turn in at once. That Everard is a famous fellow for an
examiner. He said he never had seen such a copy of verses sent up by a
school-boy, and could hardly believe June was barely sixteen. Old Hoxton
says he is the youngest Dux they have had these fifty years that he
has known the school, and Mr. Wilmot said 'twas the most creditable
examination he had ever known, and that I might tell papa so. What did
possess that ridiculous old landlubber at Whitford, to go and get on the
sick-list on this, of all the nights of the year? June, how can you go
on sitting there, when you know you ought to be in your berth
I wish he was
but let him have some tea first
And tell us more, Harry
Oh! it is famous! I knew he
would come right at last. It is too delightful, if papa was but here
Isn't it? You should have seen how Anderson grinned -- he is only
fourth -- down below Forder, and Cheviot, and Ashe
Well, I did not think Norman would have been before Forder and Cheviot.
That is grand
It was the verses that did it
they had an hour to do
Themistocles on the hearth of Admetus, and there he beat them all to
shivers. 'Twas all done smack, smooth, without a scratch, in Alcaics,
and Cheviot heard Wilmot saying, 'twas no mere task, but had poetry, and
all that sort of thing in it. But I don't know whether that would have
done, if he had not come out so strong in the recitation; they put him
on in Priam's speech to Achilles, and he said it -- Oh it was too bad papa
did not hear him! Every one held their breath and listened
How you do go on
He construed a chorus in Sophocles without a blunder, but
what did the business was this, I believe. They asked all manner of
out-of-the-way questions -- history and geography, what no one expected,
and the fellows who read nothing they can help, were thoroughly posed.
Forder had not a word to say, and the others were worse, for Cheviot
thought Queen Elizabeth's Earl of Leicester was Simon de Montfort; and
didn't know when that battle was, beginning with an E.-- was it Evesham,
or Edgehill
O Harry, you are as bad yourself
But any one would know Leicester, because of Kenilworth
and I'm not sixth form. If papa had but been there! Every one was
asking for him, and wishing it. For Dr. Hoxton called me -- they shook
hands with me, and wished me joy of it, and told me to tell my father
how well Norman had done
I suppose you looked so happy, they could not help it
Ay
they had something to say to him on his
own score, which he has forgotten
I should think not
Why, what d'ye think they said? That
I had gone on as well as all the Mays, and they trusted I should still,
and be a credit to my profession
Oh! Harry! why didn't you tell us
Oh! that is grand
Get along, Mary, you are
throttling one. Mr. Everard inquired for my father and Margaret, and
said he'd call to-morrow, and Hoxton and Wilmot kept on wishing he was
there
I wish he had been
he would have taken such delight in
it; but, even if he could have gone, he doubted whether it would not
have made Norman get on worse from anxiety
Well, Cheviot wanted me to send up for him at dinner-time
for as soon as we sat down in the hall, June turned off giddy, and
could not stay, and looked so horrid, we thought it was all over with
him, and he would not be able to go up at all
And Cheviot thought you ought to send for papa
Yes, I knew he would not be in, and so we left him lying down on the
bench in the cloister till dinner was over
What a place for catching cold
So Cheviot said, but I couldn't help it; and when we went to call him
afterwards, he was all right. Wasn't it fun, when the names were called
over, and May senior at the head! I don't think it will be better when I
am a post-captain myself! But Margaret has not heard half yet
Norman is Dux
Poor fellow! he is sadly overdone
Oh
tis not like what I used to
fancy it would be when he came to the head of the school
It will be different to-morrow
Think how he has been on the strain this
whole day, and long before, doing so much more than older boys. No
wonder he is tired and worn out
I hope he will be like himself to-morrow
I
never saw him rough and hasty before. It was even with you, Margaret
No, no, Ethel you aren't going to blame your own Norman for unkindness
on this of all days in the year. You know how it was; you love him
better; just as I do, for not being able to bear to stay in this room,
where
Yes
it was a great shame of me! How could I?
Dear Norman! how he does grieve -- what love his must have been! But yet,
Margaret
I
cannot -- cannot bear it! To have him not caring one bit for all of us! I
want him to triumph! I can't without him
What, Ethel, you, who said you didn't care for mere distinction and
praise? Don't you think dear mamma would say it was safer for him not to
be delighted and triumphant
It is very tiresome
And does not one love those two dear boys to-night
Norman not able to rejoice in his victory without her, and Harry in
such an ecstacy with Norman's honours. I don't think I ever was so fond
of my two brothers
My boy
I had not expected this of you. Well done, Norman
Well
I should think it was, if it were not that you all
believe it
Harry had better go to sleep next
and see what
dreaming will make him. If it makes Dux of Norman, who knows but it may
make Drakes of him? Ha! Ethel --


       "Oh, give us for our Kings such Queens,
          And for our Ducks such Drakes
I don't want to be cross
but I cannot help it. I
wish people would not make such a fuss about it
I don't think you can be well, Norman
Nonsense. There's nothing the matter with me
But I don't understand your not caring at all, and not being the least
pleased
It only makes it worse
I only feel as if I wanted to be
out of the way. My only comfortable time yesterday was on that bench in
the cool quiet cloister. I don't think I could have got through without
that, when they left me in peace, till Cheviot and Harry came to rout me
up, and I knew it was all coming
Ah! you have overworked yourself, but it was for something. You have
given papa such pleasure and comfort, as you can't help being glad of.
That is very different from us foolish young ones and our trumpeting
What comfort can it be? I've not been the smallest use all this time.
When he was ill, I left him to Ernescliffe, and lay on the floor like
an ass; and if he were to ask me to touch his arm, I should be as bad
again. A fine thing for me to have talked all that arrogant stuff about
Richard! I hate the thought of it; and, as if to make arrows and barbs
of it, here's Richard making as much of this as if it was a double first
class! He afraid to be compared with me, indeed
Norman, indeed, this is going too far. We can't be as useful as the
elder ones; and when you know how papa was vexed about Richard, you must
be glad to have pleased him
If I were he, it would only make me miss her more. I believe he only
makes much of me that he may not disappoint me
I don't think so. He is really glad, and the more because she would
have been so pleased. He said it would have been a happy day for her,
and there was more of the glad look than the sorry one. It was the
glistening look that comes when he is watching baby, or hearing Margaret
say pretty things to her. You see it is the first bright morning we have
had
Yes
perhaps it was, but I don't know. I thought half of
it was din
Oh, Norman
And another thing, Ethel, I don't feel as if I had fairly earned it.
Forder or Cheviot ought to have had it. They are both more really good
scholars than I am, and have always been above me. There was nothing
I really knew better, except those historical questions that no one
reckoned on; and not living at home with their sisters and books, they
had no such chance, and it is very hard on them, and I don't like it
Well, but you really and truly beat them in everything
Ay, by chance. There were lots of places in construing, where I should
have broken down if I had happened to be set on in them; it was only a
wonder I did not in that chorus, for I had only looked at it twice; but
Everard asked me nothing but what I knew; and now and then I get into
a funny state, when nothing is too hard for me, and that was how it was
yesterday evening. Generally, I feel as dull as a post
I could not make a nonsense hexameter this
minute, if I was to die for it
A sort of Berserkar fury
like that night you did the
coral-worm verses. It's very odd. Are you sure you are well, dear
Norman
I want to know what you think
of Norman
How do you mean
in health or spirits
Both
Poor boy! he has never held up his head since
October, and, at his age, that is hardly natural. He goes moping about,
has lost flesh and appetite, and looks altogether out of order, shooting
up like a Maypole too
Mind and body
funny state
Yes, both. I fancied it was only his rapid growth, and the excitement
of this examination, and that it would go off, but I think there's more
amiss. He was lounging about doing nothing, when the girls were gone
to school after dinner, and I asked him to walk down with me to the
Almshouses. He did not seem very willing, but he went, and presently, as
I had hold of his arm, I felt him shivering, and saw him turn as pale as
a sheet. As soon as I noticed it, he flushed crimson, and would not hear
of turning back, stoutly protesting he was quite well, but I saw his
hand was quivering even when I got into church. Why, Ethel, you have
turned as red as he did
Then he has done it
What do you mean? Speak, Ethel
He has gone past it -- the place
you don't mean he has never been there since
Yes
he has always gone round Randall's alley or the
garden; he has said nothing, but has contrived to avoid it
Well
I hoped none of us knew the exact
spot
We don't; he never told us, but he was there
Was he
I had no notion of that. How came he
there
He went on with Mr. Ernescliffe, and saw it all
and then came up to
my room so faint that he was obliged to lie on the floor ever so long
Faint -- how long did it last
I don't know, things seemed so long that evening. Till after dark at
least, and it came on in the morning -- no, the Monday. I believe it was
your arm -- for talking of going to see you always brought it on, till Mr.
Ward gave him a dose of brandy-and-water, and that stopped it
I wish I had known this before. Derangement of the nervous system, no
doubt -- a susceptible boy like that -- I wonder what sort of nights he has
been having
Terrible ones
I don't think he ever sleeps quietly till
morning; he has dreams, and he groans and talks in his sleep; Harry can
tell you all that
Bless me
what have you all been
thinking about to keep this to yourselves all this time
He could not bear to have it mentioned
and I
didn't know that it signified so much; does it
It signifies so much, that I had rather have given a thousand pounds
than have let him go on all this time, to be overworked at school, and
wound up to that examination
Oh, dear! I am sorry
If you had but
been at home when Cheviot wanted Harry to have sent for you -- because he
did not think him fit for it
funny
state
A fine state of things
I wonder it has not brought on a
tremendous illness by this time. A boy of that sensitive temperament
meeting with such a shock -- never looked after -- the quietest and most
knocked down of all, and therefore the most neglected -- his whole system
disordered -- and then driven to school to be harassed and overworked; if
we had wanted to occasion brain fever we could not have gone a better
way to set about it. I should not wonder if health and nerves were
damaged for life
Oh! papa, papa
what shall I do! I
wish I had told you, but
I'm not blaming you, Ethel, you knew no better, but it has been
grievous neglect. It is plain enough there is no one to see after you
We may be taking it in time
it is very
well it has gone on no longer
Three months is long enough
I suppose
it will be better not to let dear
Norman know we are uneasy about him
No, no, certainly not. Don't say a word of this to him. I shall
find Harry, and ask about these disturbed nights, and then watch him,
trusting it may not have gone too far; but there must be dreadful
excitability of brain
But, oh
his success has been dearly purchased
It hath do me mochil woe
Yea hath it?  Use
this medicine;
      Every daie this Maie or that thou dine,
      Go lokin in upon the freshe daisie,
      And though thou be for woe in poinct to die,
      That shall full gretly lessen thee of thy pine
Papa! What's the matter
Is any one ill
No; no one, lie down again
But what made you come here? Have I disturbed any one? Have I been
talking
Only mumbling a little, but you looked very uncomfortable
But I'm not ill -- what are you feeling my pulse for
To see whether that restless sleep has quickened it
What o'clock is it
A little after twelve
What does make you stay up so late, papa
I often do when my arm seems likely to keep me awake. Richard has done
all I want
Pray don't stay here in the cold
Good-night
No hurry
There's nothing the matter
Do you often have such unquiet nights
Oh, it does not signify. Good-night
Norman
it will not
do to go on in this way. If your mother was here, you would not close
yourself against her
It is no good
saying it -- I thought it would only make it worse for you; but that's it.
I cannot bear the being without her
My poor boy
only One can comfort you
truly; but you must not turn from me; you must let me do what I can for
you, though it is not the same
I thought it would grieve you more
What, to find my children, feeling with me, and knowing what they have
lost? Surely not, Norman
And it is of no use
no one can
comfort
There you are wrong
there is much
comfort in everything, in everybody, in kindness, in all around, if one
can only open one's mind to it. But I did not come to keep you awake
with such talk: I saw you were not quite well, so I came up to see about
you; and now, Norman, you will not refuse to own that something is the
matter
I did not know it
I really believe I am well, if I
could get rid of these horrible nights. I either lie awake, tumbling and
tossing, or I get all sorts of unbearable dreams
Ay, when I asked master Harry about you, all the answer I could get
was, that he was quite used to it, and did not mind it at all. As if
I asked for his sake! How fast that boy sleeps -- he is fit for a
midshipman's berth
But do you think there is anything amiss with me
I shall know more about that to-morrow morning. Come to my room as
soon as you are up, unless I come to you. Now, I have something to read
before I go to bed, and I may as well try if it will put you to sleep
At it again
Carry it away, Ethel. I will have no
Latin or Greek touched these holidays
You know
if I don't sap, I shall have no chance of
keeping up
You'll keep nowhere if you don't rest
It is only Euripides, and I can't do anything else
Very likely, I don't care. You have to get well first of all, and the
Greek will take care of itself. Go up to Margaret. I put you in her
keeping, while I am gone to Whitford. After that, I dare say
Richard will be very glad to have a holiday, and let you drive me to
Abbotstoke
Papa, I did not think Euripides would hurt him -- he
knows it all so well, and he said he could not read anything else
Just so, Ethel. Poor fellow, he has not spirits or energy for anything:
his mind was forced into those classicalities when it wanted rest, and
now it has not spring enough to turn back again
Do you think him so very ill
Not exactly, but there's low fever hanging about him, and we must look
after him well, and I hope we may get him right. I have told Margaret
about him; I can't stop any longer now
How can you bear it, Margaret
Mercy, here's another
No, indeed, Mary, I could not think of such a thing. You had better go
back to your lessons, and don't be silly
No one but a Tom-boy would dream of it
There, I believe I have done. I hope
I was not cross with poor Mary, but it was rather too much to ask
I can't think how you can help being cross to every one
I am afraid I am
It does get trying at times
I should think so! This eternal worrying must be more than any one can
bear, always lying there too
It is only now and then that it grows tiresome
I am
too happy to be of some use, and it is too bad to repine, but sometimes
a feeling comes of its being always the same, as if a little change
would be such a treat
Aren't you very tired of lying in bed
Yes, very, sometimes. I fancy, but it is only fancy, that I could move
better if I was up and dressed. It has seemed more so lately, since I
have been stronger
When do you think they will let you get up
There's the question. I believe papa thinks I might be lifted to the
sofa now -- and oh! how I long for it -- but then Mr. Ward does not approve
of my sitting up, even as I am doing now, and wants to keep me flat.
Papa thinks that of no use, and likely to hurt my general health, and
I believe the end of it will be that he will ask Sir Matthew Fleet's
opinion
Is that the man he calls Mat
Yes, you know they went through the university together, and were at
Edinburgh and Paris, but they have never met since he set up in London,
and grew so famous. I believe it would be a great treat to papa to have
him, and it would be a good thing for papa too; I don't think his arm is
going on right -- he does not trust to Mr. Ward's treatment, and I am sure
some one else ought to see it
Did you know, Margaret, that he sits up quite late, because he cannot
sleep for it
Yes, I hear him moving about, but don't tell him so; I would not have
him guess for the world, that it kept me awake
And does it
Why, if I think he is awake and in pain I cannot settle myself to
sleep; but that is no matter; having no exercise, of course I don't
sleep so much. But I am very anxious about him -- he looks so thin, and
gets so fagged -- and no wonder
Ah! Mr. Everard told me he was quite shocked to see him, and would
hardly have known him
Well, I shall hope much from Sir Matthew's taking him in hand
he will mind him, though he will not Mr. Ward
I wish the holidays were over
That's not civil, on the third day
when I am
so glad to have you to look after me, so as to set Flora at liberty
What, can I do you any good
To be sure you can, a great deal. Better not come near me otherwise,
for I make every one into a slave. I want my morning reading now -- that
book on Advent, there
Shall I read it to you
Thank you, that's nice, and I shall get on with baby's frock
Where does this lead
It comes out at Abbotstoke, but I have to go to an outlying farm
Papa
I wish you would let me do my
Greek
Is that what you have been pondering all this time? What, may not the
bonus Homerus slumber sometimes
It is not Homer, it is Euripides. I do assure you, papa, it is no
trouble, and I get much worse without it
Well, stop here, the road grows so bad that we will walk, and let the
boy lead the horse to meet us at Woodcote
If you would but let me do
my work! I've got nothing else to do, and now they have put me up, I
should not like not to keep my place
Very likely, but -- hollo -- how swelled this is
This is too bad! Wait one moment, please, and let me
go back
Stop, Norman, don't try it. You are not fit
I can't bear to be such a wretch
I never used to be. I will
not -- let me conquer it
No, I won't have it done. You are only
making it worse by putting a force on yourself
There's no bearing it
let me
only run back. I'll overtake you. I must do it if no one looks on
No such thing
If you do, you'll
have it all over again at night
That's better than to know I am worse than Tom
I tell you, Norman, it is no such thing. You will recover your tone
if you will only do as you are told, but your nerves have had a severe
shock, and when you force yourself in this way, you only increase the
mischief
Nerves
I thought they were only fit
for fine ladies
Well, will it content you if I promise that as soon as
I see fit, I'll bring you here, and let you march over that bridge as
often as you like
I suppose I must be contented, but I don't like to feel like a fool
You need not, while the moral determination is sound
But my Greek, papa
At it again -- I declare, Norman, you are the worst patient I ever had
Well, let me hear
what you have to say about it. I assure you it is not that I don't want
you to get on, but that I see you are in great need of rest
Thank you, papa. I know you mean it for my good, but I don't think
you do know how horrid it is. I have got nothing on earth to do or care
for -- the school work comes quite easy to me, and I'm sure thinking is
worse; and then
now they have put me up, it
will never do to be beaten, and all the four others ought to be able to
do it. I did not want or expect to be dux, but now I am, you could not
bear me not to keep my place, and to miss the Randall scholarship, as I
certainly shall, if I do not work these whole holidays
Norman, I know it
I am very sorry for
you, and I know I am asking of you what I could not have done at your
age -- indeed, I don't believe I could have done it for you a few months
ago. It is my fault that you have been let alone, to have an overstrain
and pressure on your mind, when you were not fit for it, and I cannot
see any remedy but complete freedom from work. At the same time, if you
fret and harass yourself about being surpassed, that is, as you say,
much worse for you than Latin and Greek. Perhaps I may be wrong, and
study might not do you the harm I think it would; at any rate, it is
better than tormenting yourself about next half year, so I will not
positively forbid it, but I think you had much better let it alone. I
don't want to make it a matter of duty. I only tell you this, that you
may set your mind at rest as far as I am concerned. If you do lose your
place, I will consider it as my own doing, and not be disappointed. I
had rather see you a healthy, vigorous, useful man, than a poor puling
nervous wretch of a scholar, if you were to get all the prizes in the
university
Then you will not be displeased, papa, if I
do read, as long as I feel it does me no harm
I told you I don't mean to make it a matter of obedience. Do as you
please -- I had rather you read than vexed yourself
I am glad of it. Thank you, papa
Yes
it is very fine, is it not? I used to bring
mamma here now and then for a treat, because it put her in mind of her
Scottish hills. Well, your's are the golden hills of heaven, now, my
Maggie
I'll leave you here
I have to go to a farmhouse close
by, in the hollow behind us; there's a girl recovering from a fever.
I'll not be ten minutes, so wait here
Is it you?
I thought it was mamma. She said it was all ambition
I didn't know I had
been asleep. I was awake just now, thinking about it. Papa, I'll give
it up. I'll try to put next half out of my head, and not mind if they do
pass me
That's right, my boy
At least if Cheviot and Forder do, for they ought. I only hope Anderson
won't. I can stand anything but that. But that is nonsense too
You are quite right, Norman
and it is a great
relief to me that you see the thing so sensibly
No, I don't see it sensibly at all, papa. I hate it all the time, and
I don't know whether I can keep from thinking of it, when I have nothing
to do; but I see it is wrong; I thought all ambition and nonsense was
gone out of me, when I cared so little for the examination; but now
I see, though I did not want to be made first, I can't bear not to be
first; and that's the old story, just as she used to tell me to guard
against ambition. So I'll take my chance, and if I should get put down,
why, 'twas not fair that I should be put up, and it is what I ought to
be, and serves me right into the bargain
Well, that's the best sort of sense, your mother's sense
No wonder she came to you
in your dream, Norman, my boy, if you had come to such a resolution.
I was half in hopes you had some such notion when I came upon you, on
Far-view down
I think that sky did it
it made me
think of her in a different way -- and what you said too
What did I say? I don't remember
Golden
hills
I see
you had dwelt on the blank here, not taken
home what it is to her
Ay
I never could before -- that made me
and then I know how foolish I was, and how she would
say it was wrong to make this fuss, when you did not like it, about my
place, and that it was not for the sake of my duty, but of ambition. I
knew that, but till I went to bed to-night, I could not tell whether I
could make up my mind, so I would say nothing
Louisa and Fanny Anderson were bearing down on the front
door
Thank you, he was kept at home by a bad headache, but it is better
to-day
We came to congratulate you on his success -- we could not help it -- it
must have been such a pleasure to you
That it was
We were so surprised
It
must have been a delightful surprise. We could hardly believe it when
Harvey came in and told us. Every one thought Forder was sure, but they
all were put out by the questions of general information -- those were all
Mr. Everard's doing
Mr. Everard was very much struck with Norman's knowledge and
scholarship too
So every one says. It was all Mr. Everard's doing. Miss Harrison told
mamma, but, for my part, I am very glad for the sake of Stoneborough; I
like a town boy to be at the head
Norman was sorry for Forder and Cheviot
He felt
as if it was hardly right, when they are so much his
seniors, that he could scarcely enjoy it
Ah! that is just what people say
But it must be very
gratifying to you, and it makes him certain of the Randal scholarship
too, I suppose. It is a great thing for him! He must have worked very
hard
Yes, that he has
he is so fond of study, and that goes
halfway
So is dear Harvey. How earnest he is over his books! Mamma sometimes
says, 'Now Harvey, dear, you'll be quite stupified, you'll be ill; I
really shall get Dr. May to forbid you.' I suppose Norman is very busy
too; it is quite the fashion for boys not to be idle now
Poor Norman can't help it
Papa will not hear
of his doing any Latin or Greek these whole holidays
He thinks he will come to it better again for entire rest
By-the-bye, Ethel, it is you that are the great patroness of the wild
Cocksmoor children -- are not you
Richard and
Ethel have been there once or twice. You know our under nursery-maid is
a Cocksmoor girl
Well, mamma said she could not think how Miss May could take one from
thence. The whole place is full of thieves, and do you know, Bessie
Boulder has lost her gold pencil-case
Has she
And she had it on Sunday when she was teaching her class
Oh
surely she does not suspect any of those
poor children
I only know such a thing never happened at school before
and I shall never take anything valuable there again
But is she sure she lost it at school
Oh, yes, quite certain. She will not accuse any one, but it is not
comfortable. And how those children do behave at church
Poor things! they have been sadly neglected
They are quite spoiling the rest, and they are such figures! Why don't
you, at least, make them cut their hair? You know it is the rule of the
school
I know, but half the girls in the first class wear it long
Oh, yes, but those are the superior people, that one would not be
strict with, and they dress it so nicely too. Now these are like little
savages
Richard thinks it might drive them away to insist at first
we will try to bring it about in time
Well, Mrs. Ledwich is nearly resolved to insist, so you had better be
warned, Ethel. She cannot suffer such untidiness and rags to spoil the
appearance of the school, and, I assure you, it is quite unpleasant to
the teachers
I wish they would give them all to me
But I do hope Mrs.
Ledwich will have patience with them, for they are only to be gained
gently
And you, Ethel, how could you go and tell them
we were surprised, and Norman thought it was hard on the other boys?
They'll have it all over the town that he got it unjustly, and knows it,
as they say already it was partiality of Mr. Everard's
Oh, no, no, they never can be so bad
they must have
understood better that it was his noble humility and generosity
They understand anything noble! No, indeed! They think every one like
their own beautiful brother! I knew what they came for all the time;
they wanted to know whether Norman was able to work these holidays, and
you told them the very thing they wanted to hear. How they will rejoice
with that Harvey, and make sure of the Randall
Oh, no, no
Norman must get that
I don't think he will
losing all this time, while they
are working. It cannot be helped, of course, but it is a great pity
I almost wish he had not been put up at all, if it is to end in this
way
It is very provoking, and to have them triumphing as
they will! There's no bearing it
Norman, certainly, is not at all well, poor fellow
and I
suppose he wants rest, but I wish papa would let him do what he can.
It would be much better for him than moping about as he is always doing
now; and the disappointment of losing his place will be grievous, though
now he fancies he does not care for it
I wonder when he will ever care for anything again. All I read and tell
him only seems to tease him, though he tries to thank me
There is a strange apathy about him
but I believe it is
chiefly for want of exertion. I should like to rouse him if papa would
let me; I know I could, by telling him how these Andersons are reckoning
on his getting down. If he does, I shall be ready to run away, that I
may never meet any one here again
that Harvey
There you are wrong
Norman did care very much, and it
was not till he had seen clearly that it was a matter of duty to do
as papa thought right, and not agitate his mind about his chances of
keeping up, that he could bear to give up his work
But oh, Margaret, it is very hard, just to have
him put up for the sake of being put down, and pleasing the Andersons
Dear Ethel, why should you mind so much about the Andersons? May they
not care about their brother as we do for ours
Such a brother to care about
But I suppose they may like him the best
I suppose they do
but still I cannot bear to
see Norman doing nothing, and I know Harvey Anderson will beat him
Surely you had rather he did nothing than made himself ill
To be sure, but I wish it wasn't so
Yes; but, Ethel, whose doing is his getting into this state
It was wrong of me
but then papa is
not sure that Greek would hurt him
Not sure, but he thinks it not wise to run the risk. But, Ethel, dear,
why are you so bent on his being dux at all costs
It would be horrid if he was not
Don't you remember you used to say that outward praise or honour was
not to be cared for as long as one did one's duty, and that it might be
a temptation
Yes, I know I did
but that was for oneself
It is harder, I think, to feel so about those we care for
but after all, this is just what will show whether our pride
in Norman is the right true loving pride, or whether it is only the
family vanity of triumphing over the Andersons
There's some of that
but it is not
all. No -- I don't want to triumph over them, nobody would do that
Not outwardly perhaps, but in their hearts
I can't tell
but it is the being triumphed over that I
cannot bear
Perhaps this is all a lesson in humility for us
It is
teaching us, 'Whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that
humbleth himself shall be exalted
And
you think he will really be put down
I cannot guess, Ethel, but I'll tell you
one thing -- I think there's much more chance if he comes to his work
fresh and vigorous after a rest, than if he went on dulling himself with
it all this time
What do you think I heard, Ethel
I heard Miss
Graves say to Miss Boulder, 'I declare I must remonstrate. I undertook
to instruct a national, not a ragged school;' and then Miss Boulder
shook out her fine watered silk and said, 'It positively is improper to
place ladies in contact with such squalid objects
Ladies
A stationer's daughter and a banker's clerk's!
Why do they come to teach at school at all
Because our example makes it genteel
I hope you did something more in hopes of making it genteel
I caught one of your ragged regiment with her frock gaping behind, and
pinned it up. Such rags as there were under it! Oh, Ethel
Which was it
That merry Irish-looking child. I don't know her name
Oh! it is a real charming Irish name, Una M'Carthy. I am so glad you
did it, Flora. I hope they were ashamed
I doubt whether it will do good. We are sure of our station and can do
anything -- they are struggling to be ladies
But we ought not to talk of them any more, Flora; here we are almost at
the churchyard
I am very glad Aunt Flora married Uncle Arnott instead
I can't think why
I never saw a person of pleasanter
manners
Did they talk of old times
No
that was the thing
You would not have them talk of those matters in the middle of dinner
No
but papa has a way -- don't you know, Margaret,
how one can tell in a moment if it is company talk
What was the conversation about
They talked over some of their fellow-students
Yes
and then when papa told him that beautiful history
of Dr. Spencer going to take care of those poor emigrants in the fever,
what do you think he said? 'Yes, Spencer was always doing extravagant
things.' Fancy that to papa, who can hardly speak of it without having
to wipe his spectacles, and who so longs to hear of Dr. Spencer
And what did he say
Nothing; so Flora and Sir Matthew got to pictures and all that sort of
thing, and it was all company talk after that
Most entertaining in its kind
but -- oh, Norman
why, they are not out of the dining-room yet
No; they are talking of some new invention, and most likely will not
come for an hour
Are you going to bed
Papa followed me out of the dining-room to tell me to do so after tea
Then sit down there, and I'll go and make some, and let it come up
with Margaret's. Come, Ethel. Good-night, Norman. Is your head aching
to-night
Not much, now I have got out of the dining-room
It would have been wiser not to have gone in
It was not the dinner, but the man
It is
incomprehensible to me how my father could take to him. I'd as soon have
Harvey Anderson for a friend
You are like me
in being glad he is not our uncle
He presume to think of falling in love with Aunt Flora
Why, what is the matter with him
I can't find much
ground for Ethel's dislike, and Flora is pleased
She did not hear the worst, nor you either, Ethel
I
could not stand the cold hard way he spoke of hospital patients. I am
sure he thinks poor people nothing but a study, and rich ones nothing
but a profit. And his half sneers! But what I hated most was his way
of avoiding discussions. When he saw he had said what would not go down
with papa, he did not honestly stand up to the point, and argue it out,
but seemed to have no mind of his own, and to be only talking to please
papa -- but not knowing how to do it. He understand my father indeed
Asleep, Margaret?
I thought I had better go to Norman first in case he should be awake
Was he
Yes, but his pulse is better to-night. He was lying awake to hear what
Fleet thought of me. I suppose Richard told you
Yes, dear papa; what a comfort it is
Those fellows in London do keep up to the mark! But I would not be
there for something. I never saw a man so altered. However, if he can
only do for you as well -- but it is of no use talking about it. I may
trust you to keep yourself calm, my dear
I am trying -- indeed I am, dear papa. If you could help being anxious
for me -- though I know it is worse for you, for I only have to lie still,
and you have to settle for me. But I have been thinking how well off I
am, able to enjoy so much, and be employed all day long. It is nothing
to compare with that poor girl you told me of, and you need not be
unhappy for me. I have some verses to say over to myself to-night:


        "O Lord my God, do Thou Thy holy will,
                I will lie still,
        I will not stir, lest I forsake Thine arm
                And break the charm
        That lulls me, clinging to my Father's breast
                In perfect rest
Is not that comfortable
My child -- my dear child -- I will say no more, lest I should break your
sweet peace with my impatience. I will strive for the same temper, my
Margaret. Bless you, dearest, good-night
What, May, have you one as young as this
You did not hear the contemptuous,
compassionate tone when he asked papa what he meant to do with all these
boys
I'm glad he has not to settle
Papa said Harry was to be a sailor, and he said it was a good way to
save expenses of education -- a good thing
No doubt
he thinks papa only wants to get rid of us, or
if not, that it is an amiable weakness
But I can't see anything so shocking in this
It is not the words
the look and tone convey it; but
there are different opinions. Flora is quite smitten with him, he talks
so politely to her
And Blanche
The little affected pussy-cat made a set
at him, bridled and talked in her mincing voice, with all her airs, and
made him take a great deal of notice of her
Well, Margaret, I am glad we had him down. He thinks you may get about
again, though it may be a long time first
Does he?-- oh, papa
He has known the use of the limbs return almost suddenly after even a
year or two
though,
my poor child
I feared the harm I had done you was
irremediable, but thanks
I never saw such a change. Mat Fleet was one of the most
warm, open-hearted fellows in the world, up to anything. I can hardly
believe he is the same -- turned into a mere machine, with a moving spring
of self-interest! I don't believe he cares a rush for any living thing!
Except for your sake, Margaret, I wish I had never seen him again, and
only remembered him as he was at Edinburgh, as I remembered dear old
Spencer. It is a grievous thing! Ruined entirely! No doubt that London
life must be trying -- the constant change and bewilderment of patients
preventing much individual care and interest. It must be very hardening.
No family ties either, nothing to look to but pushing his way. Yes!
there's great excuse for poor Mat. I never knew fully till now the
blessing it was that your dear mother was willing to take me so early,
and that this place was open to me with all its home connections and
interests. I am glad I never had anything to do with London
Norman,
my boy, I'm more glad than ever you yielded to me about your Greek these
holidays, and for the reason you did. Take care the love of rising and
pushing never gets hold of you; there's nothing that faster changes a
man from his better self
Poor May! I never saw a man so thrown away. With his talent and
acuteness, he might be the most eminent man of his day, if he had only
known how to use them. But he was always the same careless, soft-hearted
fellow, never knowing how to do himself any good, and he is the same
still, not a day older nor wiser. It was a fatal thing for him that
there was that country practice ready for him to step into, and even of
that he does not make as good a thing as he might. Of course, he
married early, and there he is, left a widower with a house full of
children -- screaming babies, and great tall sons growing up, and he
without a notion what he shall do with them, as heedless as ever -- saving
nothing, of course. I always knew it was what he would come to, if he
would persist in burying himself in that wretched little country town,
but I hardly thought, after all he has gone through, to find him such a
mere boy still. And yet he is one of the cleverest men I ever met -- with
such talent, and such thorough knowledge of his profession, that it does
one good to hear him talk. Poor May! I am sorry for him, he might have
been anything, but that early marriage and country practice were the
ruin of him
fit to receive company
Did you ever hear anything like it! When the point
was, to teach the poor things to be Christians, to turn them back,
because their hair was not regulation length
What's that! Who did
Mrs. Ledwich. She sent back three of the Cocksmoor children this
morning. It seems she warned them last Sunday without saying a word to
us
Sent them back from church
Not exactly from church
It is the same in effect
to turn them from school; for
if they did try to go alone, the pew-openers would drive them out
It is a wretched state of things
When I am
churchwarden again, I'll see what can be done about the seats; but it's
no sort of use, while Ramsden goes on as he does
Now my poor children are done for
They will never come
again. And it's horrid, papa; there are lots of town children who wear
immense long plaits of hair, and Mrs. Ledwich never interferes with
them. It is entirely to drive the poor Cocksmoor ones away -- for nothing
else, and all out of Fanny Anderson's chatter
Ethel, my dear
Didn't I tell you, Margaret, how, as soon as Flora knew what Mrs.
Ledwich was going to do, she went and told her this was the children's
only chance, and if we affronted them for a trifle, there would be no
hope of getting them back. She said she was sorry, if we were interested
for them, but rules must not be broken; and when Flora spoke of all who
do wear long hair unmolested, she shuffled and said, for the sake of
the teachers, as well as the other children, rags and dirt could not be
allowed; and then she brought up the old story of Miss Boulder's pencil,
though she has found it again, and ended by saying Fanny Anderson told
her it was a serious annoyance to the teachers, and she was sure we
should agree with her, that something was due to voluntary assistants
and subscribers
I am afraid there has been a regular set at them
and
perhaps they are troublesome, poor things
As if school-keeping were for luxury
It is the worst
thing I have heard of Mrs. Ledwich yet! One's blood boils to think of
those poor children being cast off because our fine young ladies are
too grand to teach them! The clergyman leaving his work to a set of
conceited women, and they turning their backs on ignorance, when it
comes to their door! Voluntary subscribers, indeed! I've a great mind
I'll be one no longer
Oh, papa, that would not be fair
One thing I've said, and I'll hold to it
if they
outvote Wilmot again in your Ladies' Committee, I'll have no more to do
with them, as sure as my name's Dick May. It is a scandal the way things
are done here
Papa
Ethel
and I have been thinking, if you approved, whether we could not do
something towards teaching the Cocksmoor children, and breaking them in
for the Sunday-school
What did you think of doing
We thought of trying to get a room, and going perhaps once or
twice a week to give them a little teaching. It would be little enough,
but it might do something towards civilising them, and making them wish
for more
How do you propose to get a room
I have reconnoitred, and I think I know a cottage with a tolerable
kitchen, which I dare say we might hire for an afternoon for sixpence
Oh, papa! papa! do say
we may
What's all this about
Oh! you don't know how I have thought of it day and night these two
months
What! Ethel, have a fancy for two whole months, and the whole house
not hear of it
Richard was afraid of bothering you, and wouldn't let me. But do speak,
papa. May we
I don't see any objection
Thank you! thank you, papa! Oh,
Ritchie! Oh, Margaret
You have worked yourself up to a fine pass
Remember, slow
and steady
I've got Richard to help me
Sufficient guarantee
You will keep the
Unready in order, Ritchie
He does
he has taken her education into his hands,
and I really believe he has taught her to hold up her frock and stick in
pins
And to know her right hand from her left, eh, Ethel? Well, you deserve
some credit, then. Suppose we ask Mr. Wilmot to tea, and talk it over
Oh, thank you, papa! When shall it be? To-morrow
Yes, if you like. I have to go to the town-council meeting, and am not
going into the country, so I shall be in early
Thank you. Oh, how very nice
And what about cost? Do you expect to rob me
If you would help us
we meant
to make what we have go as far as may be, but mine is only fifteen and
sixpence
Well, you must make interest with Margaret for the turn-out of my
pocket to-morrow
Thank you, we are very much obliged
that is more than we expected
Ha! don't thank too soon. Suppose to-morrow should be a blank day
Oh, it won't
I shall tell Norman to make you go to
paying people
There's avarice
But look you here, Ethel, if you'll
take my advice, you'll make your bargain for Tuesday. I have a note
appointing me to call at Abbotstoke Grange on Mr. Rivers, at twelve
o'clock, on Tuesday. What do you think of that, Ethel? An old banker,
rich enough for his daughter to curl her hair in bank-notes. If I were
you, I'd make a bargain for him
If he had nothing the matter with him, and I only got one guinea out of
him
Prudence! Well, it may be wiser
in one
moment
now-or-never
Ethel, dear,
wait
I'll be back in a
twinkling
Aubrey! put that down
Ethel
Are you mad? What were you thinking of
What could make you let him
I didn't see
Didn't see! Didn't look, didn't think, didn't care! That's it, Ethel.
'Tis very hard one can't trust you in a room with the child any more
than the baby himself. His frock perfect tinder! He would have been
burned to a cinder, if I had not come in
There's no bearing it! I'll put a stop to all schools and
Greek, if it is to lead to this, and make you good for nothing
Oh, papa
Yes, Ethel
it was a frightful thing
One moment later! It is an escape to be for ever
thankful for -- poor little fellow!-- but, Ethel, Ethel, do let it be a
warning to you
Oh, I hope -- I'll try
You have said you would try before
I know I have
If I could but
Poor child
Ethel,
my dear, I am afraid of its being with you as -- as it has been with me
I grew up, thinking
my inbred heedlessness a sort of grace, so to say, rather manly -- the
reverse of finikin. I was spoiled as a boy, and my Maggie carried on the
spoiling, by never letting me feel its effects. By the time I had sense
enough to regret this as a fault, I had grown too old for changing of
ingrain, long-nurtured habits -- perhaps I never wished it really. You
have seen
what my carelessness
has come to -- let that suffice at least, as a lesson that may spare
you -- what your father must feel as long as he lives
Oh, Margaret, Margaret, how very
terrible it is! And does papa really think so
I believe he does
How can he, can he bear it
Oh! it is
enough to kill one -- I can't think why it did not
He bears it
because he is so very good, that help and
comfort do come to him. Dear papa! He bears up because it is right, and
for our sakes, and he has a sort of rest in that perfect love they had
for each other. He knows how she would wish him to cheer up and look to
the end, and support and comfort are given to him, I know they are; but
oh, Ethel! it does make one tremble and shrink, to think what he has
been going through this autumn, especially when I hear him moving
about late at night, and now and then comes a heavy groan -- whenever any
especial care has been on his mind
To have grieved him again
and
just as he seemed better and brighter! Everything I do turns out wrong,
and always will; I can't do anything well by any chance
Yes you can, when you mind what you are about
But I never can -- I'm like him, every one says so, and he says the
heedlessness is ingrain, and can't be got rid of
Ethel, I don't really think he could have told you so
I'm sure he said ingrain
Well, I suppose it is part of his nature, and that you have inherited
it, but
He said his was long-nurtured; yes, Margaret, you guessed right, and he
said he could not change it, and no more can I
Surely, Ethel, you have not had so many years. You are fifteen instead
of forty-six, and it is more a woman's work than a man's to be careful.
You need not begin to despair. You were growing much better; Richard
said so, and so did Miss Winter
What's the use of it, if in one moment it is as bad as ever? And
to-day, of all days in the year, just when papa had been so very, very
kind, and given me more than I asked
Do you know, Ethel, I was thinking whether dear mamma would not say
that was the reason. You were so happy, that perhaps you were thrown off
your guard
I should not wonder if that was it
You know
it was a sort of probation that Richard put me on. I was to learn to be
steady before he spoke to papa, and now it seemed to be all settled and
right, and perhaps I forgot I was to be careful still
I think it was something of the kind. I was a little afraid before, and
I wish I had tried to caution you, but I did not like to seem unkind
I wish you had
Dear little Aubrey! Oh, if papa had not
been there! And I cannot think how, as it was, he could contrive to put
the fire out, with his one hand, and not hurt himself. Margaret it was
terrible. How could I mind so little! Did you see how his frock was
singed
Yes, papa showed it to me. How can we be thankful enough! One thing I
hope, that Aubrey was well frightened, poor little boy
I know! I see now
he must have wanted me to make the
fire blaze up, as Richard did one evening when we came in and found it
low; I remember Aubrey clapping his hands and shouting at the flame;
but my head was in that unhappy story, and I never had sense to put the
things together, and reflect that he would try to do it himself. I only
wanted to get him out of my way, dear little fellow. Oh, dear, how bad
it was of me! All from being uplifted, and my head turned, as it used to
be when we were happier. Oh! I wish Mr. Wilmot was not coming
Oh, Margaret, I am so unhappy. I see the whole meaning of it now.
Do you not? When papa gave his consent at last, I was pleased and set
up, and proud of my plans. I never recollected what a silly, foolish
girl I am, and how unfit. I thought Mr. Wilmot would think great things
of it -- it was all wrong and self-satisfied. I never prayed at all that
it might turn out well, and so now it won't
Dearest Ethel, I don't see that. Perhaps it will do all the better for
your being humbled about it now. If you were wild and high flying, it
would never go right
Its hope is in Richard
So it is
I wish Mr. Wilmot was not coming to-night
It would
serve me right if papa were to say nothing about it
He likes him very much
He is a very pleasing
person, particularly kind-hearted and gentle, and likely to do a great
deal for the parish. They have been giving away beef and blankets at a
great rate this Christmas
What family is there
One daughter, about Ethel's age, is there with her governess. He
has been twice married, and the first wife left a son, who is in the
Dragoons, I believe. This girl's mother was Lord Cosham's daughter
We wanted you to talk over a
scheme that these young ones have been concocting. You see, I am obliged
to keep Richard at home this next term -- it won't do to have no one in
the house to carry poor Margaret. We can't do without him anyway, so
he and Ethel have a scheme of seeing what can be done for that wretched
place, Cocksmoor
Indeed
It is
sadly destitute. It would be a great thing if anything could be done
for it. You have brought some children to school already, I think. I saw
some rough-looking boys, who said they came from Cocksmoor
Ah
if he knew how ill I have behaved! It is all show
and hollowness with me
Ay, ay
there's much more in the boy than I used
to think. He's a capital fellow, and more like his mother than any of
them
He is
there was a just, well-weighed sense and
soberness in his plans that put me in mind of her every moment
Norman, do you feel up to a long day's work
I have to set off after breakfast to see old Mrs.
Gould, and to be at Abbotstoke Grange by twelve; then I thought of going
to Fordholm, and getting Miss Cleveland to give us some luncheon -- there
are some poor people on the way to look at; and that girl on Far-view
Hill; and there's another place to call in at coming home. You'll have a
good deal of sitting in the carriage, holding Whitefoot, so if you think
you shall be cold or tired, don't scruple to say so, and I'll take Adams
to drive me
No, thank you
This frost is famous
It will turn to rain, I expect -- it is too white
How will you get to Cocksmoor, good people
Ethel won't believe it rains unless it is very bad
Ha
there's a considerable change in this place since I was
here last. Well kept up indeed! Not a dead leaf left under the old
walnuts, and the grass looks as smooth as if they had a dozen gardeners
rolling it every day
And the drive
more like a garden walk than a road! But
oh! what a splendid cedar
Isn't it! I remember that as long as I remember anything. All this
fine rolling of turf, and trimming up of the place, does not make much
difference to you, old fellow, does it? You don't look altered since I
saw you last, when old Jervis was letting the place go to rack and ruin.
So they have a new entrance -- very handsome conservatory -- flowers -- the
banker does things in style. There
wrap yourself up well, don't get cold. The sun is gone in, and I
should not wonder if the rain were coming after all. I'll not be longer
than I can help
How much poor
Margaret would enjoy one of those camellias
and these
people have bushels of them for mere show. If I were papa, I should be
tempted to be like Beauty's father, and carry off one. How she would
admire it
Rollo! Rollo
Good
old fellow
Here, old Rollo
So, old fellow, you know what the dinner-bell means
I hope Mr. Rivers is hungry too. Miss Cleveland will have eaten up her
whole luncheon, if this old bore won't let my father go soon! I hope he
is desperately ill --'tis his only excuse! Heigh ho! I must jump out to
warm my feet soon! There, there's a drop of rain! Well, there's no end
to it! I wonder what Ethel is doing about Cocksmoor! It is setting in
for a wet afternoon
Jump
out, Norman, Mr. Rivers is so kind as to ask us to stay to luncheon
Is this your eldest son
No, this is my second. The eldest is not quite such a long-legged
fellow
At Stoneborough
He is the head of the
school -- a thing we Stoneborough men think much of
Will you come into the drawing-room with
us
Our holiday work
Meta has been making a drawing
for her papa, and is framing it in leather-work. Have you ever seen
any
Never
I wanted to learn
all about it, for I thought it would be such nice work for my eldest
sister
Is she the invalid
Yes
New fancy work is a great gain to her
How very good she must be
She is indeed
I don't know what papa would do
but for her
Meta wishes to know if your sister would like to have a few
flowers
Oh, thank you
How she will like it
It is very kind in you; you have given my poor girl a great treat.
Thank you with all my heart
Oh, please -- if you would tell me -- do you think -- is
papa very ill
You need not
be alarmed about him, I assure you. You must keep him from too much
business
make him ride with you, and not let him
tire himself, and I am sure you can be his best doctor
But do you think
do you think he
will be quite well again
You must not expect doctors to be absolute oracles
I will
tell you what I told him -- I hardly think his will ever be sound health
again, but I see no reason why he should not have many years of comfort,
and there is no cause for you to disquiet yourself on his account -- you
have only to be careful of him
thank you
Thank you, it is a great relief to
have an opinion, for we were not at all satisfied about Mr. Rivers
thank you
What a very nice
intelligent boy that was
Particularly gentlemanlike
Very clever -- the head of
the school, as his father tells me -- and so modest and unassuming -- though
I see his father is very proud of him
Oh, I am sure they are so fond of each other
didn't you
see his attentive ways to his father at luncheon! And, papa, I am
sure you must like Dr. May, Mr. Wilmot's doctor, as much as I said you
would
He is the most superior man I have met with for a long time
It is a great acquisition to find a man of such taste and
acquirements in this country neighbourhood, when there is not another
who can tell a Claude from a Poussin. I declare, when once we began
talking, there was no leaving off -- I have not met a person of so much
conversation since I left town. I thought you would like to see him,
Meta
I hope I shall know the Miss Mays some time or other
That is the prettiest little fairy I ever did see
How good-natured they are
I just said something about
Margaret, and she gave me all these flowers. How Margaret will be
delighted! I wish the girls could see it all
So you got on well with the ladies, did you
They were very kind to me. It was very pleasant
I was glad you should come in. Such a curiosity shop is a sight, and
those pictures were some of them well worth seeing. That was a splendid
Titian
That cast of the Pallas of the Parthenon -- how beautiful it was -- I knew
it from the picture in Smith's dictionary. Mr. Rivers said he would show
me all his antiques if you would bring me again
I saw he liked your interest in them. He is a good, kind-hearted
dilettante sort of old man; he has got all the talk of the literary,
cultivated society in London, and must find it dullish work here
You liked him, didn't you
He is very pleasant; I found he knew my old friend, Benson, whom I had
not seen since we were at Cambridge together, and we got on that and
other matters; London people have an art of conversation not learned
here, and I don't know how the time slipped away; but you must have been
tolerably tired of waiting
Not to signify
I only began to think he must be very
ill; I hope there is not much the matter with him
I can't say. I am afraid there is organic disease, but I think it may
be kept quiet a good while yet, and he may have a pleasant life for some
time to come, arranging his prints, and petting his pretty daughter. He
has plenty to fall back upon
Do you go there again
Yes, next week. I am glad of it. I shall like to have another look at
that little Madonna of his -- it is the sort of picture that does one good
to carry away in one's eye. Whay! Stop. There's an old woman in here. It
is too late for Fordholm, but these cases won't wait
Fine new blankets,
and a great kettle of soup, and such praises of the ladies at the
Grange
Well, 'tis no
mockery now to tell the poor creatures they want nourishing food. Slices
of meat and bottles of port wine rain down on Abbotstoke
Ha! How are you, Wilmot? So you braved the rain, Ethel. Jump in
I shall crowd you -- I shall hurt your arm, papa; thank you
No, you won't -- jump in -- there's room for three thread-papers in one
gig. Why, Wilmot, your brother has a very jewel of a squire! How did you
fare
Very well on the whole
I say! You are coming back to tea with us
I hope
you were prosperous in your expedition
Yes, papa, we have taken a very nice tidy room
What do you pay for it
Fourpence for each time
Well, here's for you
It is only two guineas to-day;
that banker at the Grange beguiled us of our time, but you had better
close the bargain for him, Ethel -- he will be a revenue for you, for this
winter at least
Oh, thank you, papa
Oh, how beautiful! how delicious! For me? Where did you get them
From Abbotstoke Grange; Miss Rivers sent them to you
How very kind! What a lovely geranium, and oh, that fern! I never saw
anything so choice. How came she to think of me
They asked me in because it rained, and she was making the prettiest
things, leather leaves and flowers for picture frames. I thought it was
work that would just suit you, and learned how to do it. That made them
ask about you, and it ended by her sending you this nosegay
How very kind everybody is! Well, Ethel, are you come home too
Papa picked me up. Oh, Margaret, we have found such a nice room, a
clean sanded kitchen
You never saw such a conservatory
And it is to be let to us for fourpence a time
The house is full of beautiful things, pictures and statues. Only think
of a real Titian, and a cast of the Apollo
Twenty children to begin with, and Richard is going to make some
forms
Mr. Rivers is going to show me all his casts
Oh, is he? But only think how lucky we were to find such a nice woman;
Mr. Wilmot was so pleased with her
The first place we thought
of would not do at all; the woman said she would not take half-a-crown a
week to have a lot of children stabbling about, as she called it; so
we went to another house, and there was a very nice woman indeed, Mrs.
Green, with one little boy, whom she wanted to send to school, only it
is too far. She says she always goes to church at Fordholm because it is
nearer, and she is quite willing to let us have the room. So we settled
it, and next Friday we are to begin. Papa has given us two guineas, and
that will pay for, let me see, a hundred and twenty-six times, and
Mr. Wilmot is going to give us some books, and Ritchie will print some
alphabets. We told a great many of the people, and they are so glad.
Old Granny Hall said, 'Well, I never!' and told the girls they must be
as good as gold now the gentlefolks was coming to teach them. Mr. Wilmot
is coming with us every Friday as long as the holidays last
I am very glad you think well of it
It is most desirable
that something should be done for those poor people, and Richard would
never act rashly; but I have longed for advice whether it was right to
promote Ethel's undertaking. I suppose Richard told you how bent on it
she was, long before papa was told of it
He said it was her great wish, and had been so for a long time past
I do believe she looks on it as a sort of call
and I have
felt as if I ought not to hinder her, and yet I did not know whether it
was right, at her age, to let her undertake so much
I understand
but, from what I have seen of Ethel,
I should think you had decided rightly. There seems to me to be such
a spirit of energy in her, that if she does not act, she will either
speculate and theorise, or pine and prey on herself. I do believe that
hard homely work, such as this school-keeping, is the best outlet for
what might otherwise run to extravagance -- more especially as you say the
hope of it has already been an incentive to improvement in home duties
That I am sure it has
Moreover
I think you were quite right in thinking
that to interfere with such a design was unsafe. I do believe that a
great deal of harm is done by prudent friends, who dread to let young
people do anything out of the common way, and so force their aspirations
to ferment and turn sour, for want of being put to use
Still girls are told they ought to wait patiently, and not to be eager
for self-imposed duties
I am not saying that it is not the appointed discipline for the girls
themselves
If they would submit, and do their best,
it would doubtless prove the most beneficial thing for them; but it is a
trial in which they often fail, and I had rather not be in the place of
such friends
It is a great puzzle
Ah! I dare say you are often perplexed
Indeed I am. There are so many little details that I cannot be always
teasing papa with, and yet which I do believe form the character more
than the great events, and I never know whether I act for the best. And
there are so many of us, so many duties, I cannot half attend to any.
Lately, I have been giving up almost everything to keep this room quiet
for Norman in the morning, because he was so much harassed and hurt by
bustle and confusion, and I found to-day that things have gone wrong in
consequence
You must do the best you can, and try to trust that while you work in
the right spirit, your failures will be compensated
It is a hard trial
I like your understanding it
I don't
know whether it is silly, but I don't like to be pitied for the wrong
thing. My being so helpless is what every one laments over; but, after
all, that is made up to me by the petting and kindness I get from all
of them; but it is the being mistress of the house, and having to settle
for every one, without knowing whether I do right or wrong, that is my
trouble
I am not sure, however, that it is right to call it a trouble, though
it is a trial
I see what you mean
I ought to be thankful. I know
it is an honour, and I am quite sure I should be grieved if they did
not all come to me and consult me as they do. I had better not have
complained, and yet I am glad I did, for I like you to understand my
difficulties
And, indeed, I wish to enter into them, and do or say anything in my
power to help you. But I don't know anything that can be of so much
comfort as the knowledge that He who laid the burden on you, will help
you to bear it
Yes
It is very odd how things turn out! I always
had a childish fancy that I would be useful and important, but I little
thought how it would be! However, as long as Richard is in the house,
I always feel secure about the others, and I shall soon be downstairs
myself. Don't you think dear papa in better spirits
I thought so to-day
It was
a lucky chance
that they brought Norman in. It was exactly
what I wanted to rouse and interest him, and he took it all in so well,
that I am sure they were pleased with him. I thought he looked a very
lanky specimen of too much leg and arm when I called him in, but he has
such good manners, and is so ready and understanding, that they
could not help liking him. It was fortunate I had him instead of
Richard -- Ritchie is a very good fellow, certainly, but he had rather
look at a steam-engine, any day, than at Raphael himself
Oh, Margaret, I wonder if you ever will! I would give something for you
to see the beautiful conservatory. It is a real bower for a maiden of
romance, with its rich green fragrance in the midst of winter. It is
like a picture in a dream. One could imagine it a fairy land, where no
care, or grief, or weariness could come, all choice beauty and sweetness
waiting on the creature within. I can hardly believe that it is a real
place, and that I have seen it
Though you have brought these pretty tokens that your fairy is as good
as she is fair
Oh, Margaret, will you look at these 'First Truths?' Do
you think they would be easy enough? Shall I take some of the Parables
and Miracles at once, or content myself with the book about 'Jane
Sparks
There's some very easy reading in 'Jane Sparks', isn't there? I would
not make the little books from the New Testament too common
Take care, that leaf has five points
Shall I bring you up 'Jane Sparks' to see? Because then you can judge
There, Norman, is that right?-- what a beauty! I should like to look
over them by-and-by, dear Ethel, very much
When
Margaret has a new kind of fancy work
she cares for
nothing else! as if my poor children did not signify more than trumpery
leather leaves
Oh, Flora, see here, what a famous parcel of books Mr. Wilmot has sent
us to choose from
All those
what a confusion
See, such a parcel of reading books. I want to know what you think of
setting them up with 'Jane Sparks', as it is week-day teaching
You will be very tired of hearing those spelled over for ever; they
have some nicer books at the national school
What is the name of them? Do you see any of them here
No, I don't think I do, but I can't wait to look now. I must write some
letters. You had better put them together a little. If you were to sort
them, you would know what is there. Now, what a mess they are in
Do let him off the
parsing, Ritchie
he has said it so well, and I
want you so much
I am afraid I must not
but come,
Tom, you shan't have many words, if you really know them
Very well, only two more -- affuit
Third person singular, praeter perfect tense of the verb affo, affis,
affui, affere
Did you find that in the dictionary
I thought affui
came from adsum
Oh, to be sure, stupid fool of a word, so it does
I had forgot -- adsum, ades, affui, adesse
Adjective
it was
objected
From oppositor
Hallo
No, now, Tom, pay attention
If you found
out its meaning, you must have seen its derivation
Oppositus
why, oppositus
from op-posor
A poser! ain't it
Don't, Harry, you distract him
Come, Tom, say at once
whether you know it or not -- it is of no use to invent
From op
What? I don't hear -- op
From
op-possum
That's right! let us hear him decline it
Oppossum, opottis, opposse, or oh-pottery
Harry
I wish you would
be so kind as not to stay, if you cannot help distracting him
Decline oppossum you say. I'll tell
you how: O-possum re-poses up a gum tree. O-pot-you-I will, says the
O-posse of Yankees, come out to ketch him. Opossum poses them and
declines in O-pot-esse by any manner of means of o-potting-di-do-dum,
was quite oppositum-oppotitu, in fact, quite contrairy
Do tell me, Ethel
Indeed I shan't
Why don't you say fairly if you don't
know
How did you find out the meaning of that
word, Tom, if you didn't look out the verb
I -- don't know
It is very odd
Ethel is out of sorts to-day
What's the matter
We have had a discussion
She has been terribly
shocked by finding out what we have often thought about poor little Tom,
and she thinks we ought to tell papa. Her principle is quite right, but
I doubt
I know exactly how Ethel would do it
blurt out all on
a sudden, 'Papa, Tom cheats at his lessons!' then there would be a
tremendous uproar, papa would scold Tom till he almost frightened him
out of his wits, and then find out it was only suspicion
And never have any comfort again
He would always
dread that Tom was deceiving him, and then think it was all for want
of -- Oh, no, it will never do to speak of it, unless we find out some
positive piece of misbehaviour
Certainly
And it would do Tom no good to make him afraid of papa
Ethel's rule is right in principle
that
papa ought to know all without reserve, and yet it will hardly do in
practice. One must use discretion, and not tease him about every
little thing. He takes them so much to heart, that he would be almost
distracted; and, with so much business abroad, I think at home he should
have nothing but rest, and, as far as we can, freedom from care and
worry. Anything wrong about the children brings on the grief so much,
that I cannot bear to mention it
It was very odd that people
should find amusement in such things. Margaret always had a turn for
them, but it was very strange in Norman
Prevent us, O Lord, in all our
doings
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John
Ave Maria
Margaret Fletcher
thank you
Oh, no -- it was only the first time
How nicely Ritchie managed! He carried me so comfortably
and easily. It is enough to spoil me to be so deftly waited on
I'm glad of it
I am sure the change is better for
you
Ritchie can take excellent care of me
You see it will do very well indeed for you to
take Harry to school
I should like to do so. I should like to see his master, and to take
Norman with me
It would be just the thing for him
now -- we would show him the dockyard, and all those matters, and such a
thorough holiday would set him up again
He is very much better
Much better -- he is recovering spirits and tone very fast. That
leaf-work of yours came at a lucky time. I like to see him looking out
for a curious fern in the hedgerows -- the pursuit has quite brightened
him up
And he does it so thoroughly
Ethel fancies it is
rather frivolous of him, I believe; but it amuses me to see how men give
dignity to what women make trifling. He will know everything about the
leaves, hunts up my botany books, and has taught me a hundred times more
of the construction and wonders of them than I ever learned
Ay
he has been talking a good deal to me about
vegetable chemistry. He would make a good scientific botanist, if
he were to be nothing else. I should be glad if he sticks to it as a
pursuit --'tis pretty work, and I should like to have gone further with
it, if I had ever had time for it
I dare say he will
It will be very pleasant if he can
go with you. How he would enjoy the British Museum, if there was time
for him to see it! Have you said anything to him yet
No; I waited to see how you were, as it all depends on that
I think it depends still more on something else; whether Norman is as
fit to take care of you as Richard is
That's another point. There's nothing but what he could manage now, but
I don't like saying anything to him. I know he would undertake anything
I wished, without a word, and then, perhaps, dwell on it in fancy, and
force himself, till it would turn to a perfect misery, and upset his
nerves again. I'm sorry for it. I meant him to have followed my trade,
but he'll never do for that. However, he has wits enough to make himself
what he pleases, and I dare say he will keep at the head of the school
after all
How very good he has been in refraining from restlessness
It's beautiful
Poor boy! I trust
he'll not be disappointed, and I don't think he will; but I've promised
him I won't be annoyed if he should lose his place -- so we must take
especial care not to show any anxiety. However, for this matter,
Margaret, I wish you would sound him, and see whether it would be more
pleasure or pain. Only mind you don't let him think that I shall be
vexed, if he feels that he can't make up his mind; I would not have him
fancy that, for more than I can tell
Ay, Ritchie
you may well look grave upon it. You won't see
it look so tidy when it comes back again, and I believe you are thinking
it will be lucky if you see it at all
lugging off his figure-head
How
was he looking
And when is he coming here again, papa
Eh! oh! I can't tell. I say, isn't it high time to ring
I say,
won't you come into my room while I unpack
Oh, yes, I should like it very much
Well, Ethel, papa says I may get to my
Euripides to-morrow, if I please, and only work an hour at a time
Oh, I am so glad. Then he thinks you quite well
Yes, I am quite well. I hope I've done with nonsense
And how did you get on with his arm
Very well -- he was so patient, and told me how to manage. You heard that
Sir Matthew said it had got much better in these few weeks. Oh, here it
is! There's a present for you
Oh, thank you. From you, or from papa
This is mine. Papa has a present for every one in his bag. He said, at
last, that a man with eleven children hadn't need to go to London very
often
And you got this beautiful 'Lyra Innocentium' for me? How very kind
of you, Norman. It is just what I wished for. Such lovely binding -- and
those embossed edges to the leaves. Oh! they make a pattern as they
open! I never saw anything like it
I saw such a one on Miss Rivers's table, and asked Ernescliffe where to
get one like it. See, here's what my father gave me
Bishop Ken's Manual'. That is in readiness for the Confirmation
Look. I begged him to put my name, though he said it was a pity to do
it with his left hand; I didn't like to wait, so I asked him at least to
write N. W. May, and the date
And he has added Prov. xxiii. 24, 25. Let me look it out
How it ought to make one
I'm glad he put both verses
How pleased with
you he must be
How well he has come to write with his left hand now
Yes. Did you know that he wrote himself to tell Ernescliffe Sir
Matthew's opinion of Margaret
No: did he
Do you know, Ethel
it is my belief that Ernescliffe
is in love with her, and that papa thinks so
Dear me
That is famous. We should always
have Margaret at home when he goes to sea
But mind, Ethel, for your life you must not say one word to any living
creature
Oh, no, I promise you I won't, Norman, if you'll only tell me how you
found it out
What first put it in my head was the first evening, while I was undoing
the portmanteau; my father leaned on the mantel-shelf, and sighed and
muttered, 'Poor Ernescliffe! I wish it may end well.' I thought he
forgot that I was there, so I would not seem to notice, but I soon saw
it was that he meant
How
Oh, I don't know -- by Alan's way
Tell me -- I want to know what people do when they are in love
Nothing particular
Did you hear him inquire for her? How did he look
I can't tell. That was when he met us at the station before I thought
of it, and I had to see to the luggage. But I'll tell you one thing,
Ethel; when papa was talking of her to Mrs. Mackenzie, at the other end
of the room, all his attention went away in an instant from what he was
saying. And once, when Harry said something to me about her, he started,
and looked round so earnestly
Oh, yes -- that's like people in books. And did he colour
No; I don't recollect that he did
but I observed he
never asked directly after her if he could help it, but always was
trying to lead, in some round-about way, to hearing what she was doing
Did he call her Margaret
I watched; but to me he always said, 'Your sister,' and if he had to
speak of her to papa, he said, 'Miss May.' And then you should have seen
his attention to papa. I could hardly get a chance of doing anything for
papa
Oh, sure of it
But, poor man, how
unhappy he must have been at having to go away when she was so ill
Ay, the last time he saw her was when he carried her upstairs
Oh, dear! I hope he will soon come here again
I don't suppose he will. Papa did not ask him
Dear me, Norman! Why not? Isn't papa very fond of him? Why shouldn't he
come
Don't you see, Ethel, that would be of no use while poor Margaret is no
better. If he gained her affections, it would only make her unhappy
Oh, but she is much better. She can raise herself up now without
help, and sat up ever so long this morning, without leaning back on her
cushions. She is getting well -- you know Sir Matthew said she would
Yes; but I suppose papa thinks they had better say nothing till she is
quite well
And when she is! How famous it will be
Then there's another thing; he is very poor, you know
I am sure papa doesn't care about people being rich
I suppose Alan thinks he ought not to marry, unless he could make his
wife comfortable
Look here -- it would be all very easy: she should stay with us, and be
comfortable here, and he go to sea, and get lots of prize money
And that's what you call domestic felicity
He might have her when he was at home
No, no; that would never do
Do you think Ernescliffe's
a man that would marry a wife for her father to maintain her
Why, papa would like it very much. He is not a mercenary father in a
book
Hey! what's that
Contraband talk
at contraband times? What's this
Did you hear, papa
Only your last words, as I came up to ask Norman what he had done with
my pocket-book. Mind, I ask no impertinent questions; but, if you have
no objection, I should like to know what gained me the honour of that
compliment
Norman
I'll find it
Ah! ha! so Master
June has his eyes and ears open, has he? A fine bit of gossip to regale
you with on his return
He told me to say not one word
Right -- mind you don't
I've put out the pocket-book, papa. I think
I should tell you I repeated what, perhaps, you did not mean me to
hear -- you talked to yourself something of pitying Ernescliffe
I can't say little pitchers have
long ears, to a May-pole like you, Norman
I think I ought
rather to apologise for having inadvertently tumbled in among your
secrets; I assure you I did not come to spy you
Oh, no, no, no, no
Then you didn't mind
our talking about it
Of course not, as long as it goes no further. It is the use of sisters
to tell them one's private sentiments. Is not it, Norman
And do you really think it is so, papa
The more I see of Alan, the finer fellow I think him,
and the more sorry I am for him. It seems presumptuous, almost wrong, to
think of the matter at all while my poor Margaret is in this state; and,
if she were well, there are other difficulties which would, perhaps,
prevent his speaking, or lead to long years of waiting and wearing out
hope
Money
Ay! Though I so far deserve your compliment, miss, that should be
foolish enough, if she were but well, to give my consent to-morrow,
because I could not help it; yet one can't live forty-six years in
this world without seeing it is wrong to marry without a reasonable
dependence -- and there won't be much among eleven of you. It makes my
heart ache to think of it, come what may, as far as I can see, and
without her to judge. The only comfort is, that poor Margaret herself
knows nothing of it, and is at peace so far. It will be ordered for
them, anyhow. Good-night, my dear
My dear child, what a storm you have had! how wet you must be
Oh no; I am quite dry; feel
Are you sure
Here,
come and take off your wet things, my dear, and Bellairs shall bring you
some tea
I'm dry. I'm warm
But where do you
think I have been? You have so much to hear. But first -- three guesses
where we were in the rain
In the Stoneborough Cloisters, that you wanted to see? My dear, you did
not keep your papa in the cold there
No, no; we never got there at all; guess again
At Mr. Edward Wilmot's
No
Could it have been at Dr. May's? Really, then, you must tell me
There! you deserve a good long story; beginning at the beginning
wasn't it curious? as we were coming up the
last hill, we met some girls in deep mourning, with a lady who looked
like their governess. I wondered whether they could be Dr. May's
daughters, and so it turned out they were.

"Presently there began to fall little square lumps, neither hail, nor
snow, nor rain; it grew very cold, and rain came on. It would have been
great fun, if I had not been afraid papa would catch cold, and he said
we would canter on to the inn. But, luckily, there was Dr. May walking
up the street, and he begged us to come into his house. I was so glad!
We were tolerably wet, and Dr. May said something about hoping the girls
were at home; well, when he opened the drawing-room door, there was the
poor daughter lying on the sofa
Poor girl! tell me of her
Oh! you must go and see her; you won't look at her without losing your
heart. Papa liked her so much -- see if he does not talk of her all the
evening. She looks the picture of goodness and sweetness. Only think
of her having some of the maidenhair and cape jessamine still in water,
that we sent her so long ago. She shall have some flowers every three
days. Well, Dr. May said, 'There is one at least, that is sure to be
at home.' She felt my habit, and said I must go and change it, and
she called to a little thing of six, telling her to show me the way to
Flora. She smiled, and said she wished she could go herself, but Flora
would take care of me. Little Blanche came and took hold of my hand,
chattering away, up we went, up two staircases, and at the top of the
last stood a girl about seventeen, so pretty! such deep blue eyes, and
such a complexion! 'That's Flora,' little Blanche said; 'Flora, this is
Miss Rivers, and she's wet, and Margaret says you are to take care of
her
So that was your introduction
Yes; we got acquainted in a minute. She took me into her room -- such a
room! I believe Bellairs would be angry if she had such a one; all up
in the roof, no fire, no carpet, except little strips by the beds; there
were three beds. Flora used to sleep there till Miss May was ill, and
now she dresses there. Yet I am sure they are as much ladies as I am
You are an only daughter, my dear, and a petted one
There are too many of them to make much of, as we do
of our Meta
I suppose so; but I did not know gentlewomen lived in such a way
There were nice things about, a beautiful inlaid work-box of
Flora's, and a rosewood desk, and plenty of books, and a Greek book and
dictionary were spread open. I asked Flora if they were hers, and she
laughed and said no; and that Ethel would be much discomposed that I had
see them. Ethel keeps up with her brother Norman -- only fancy! and he at
the head of the school. How clever she must be
But, my dear, were you standing in your wet things all this time
No; I was trying on their frocks, but they trailed on the ground upon
me, so she asked if I would come and sit by the nursery fire till my
habit was dry; and there was a dear little good-humoured baby, so fair
and pretty. She is not a bit shy, will go to anybody, but, they say, she
likes no one so well as her brother Norman
So you had a regular treat of baby-nursing
That I had; I could not part with her, the darling. Flora thought we
might take her down, and I liked playing with her in the drawing-room
and talking to Miss May, till the fly came to take us home. I wanted to
have seen Ethel; but, only think, papa has asked Dr. May to bring Flora
some day; how I hope he will
I have seen something of life to-day
I
had thought of the great difference between us and the poor, but I did
not know ladies lived in such different ways. I should be very miserable
without Bellairs, or without a fire in my room. I don't know what I
should do if I had to live in that cold, shabby den, and do my own hair,
yet they think nothing of it, and they are cultivated and ladylike! Is
it all fancy, and being brought up to it? I wonder if it is right? Yet
dear papa likes me to have these things, and can afford them. I never
knew I was luxurious before, and yet I think I must be! One thing I do
wish, and that is, that I was of as much use as those girls. I ought to
be. I am a motherless girl like them, and I ought to be everything to
papa, just as Miss May is, even lying on the sofa there, and only two
years older than I am. I don't think I am of any use at all; he is fond
of me, of course, dear papa; and if I died, I don't know what would
become of him; but that's only because I am his daughter -- he has only
George besides to care for. But, really and truly, he would get on as
well without me. I never do anything for him, but now and then playing
to him in the evening, and that not always, I am afraid, when I want
to be about anything else. He is always petting me, and giving me all I
want, but I never do anything but my lessons, and going to the school,
and the poor people, and that is all pleasure. I have so much that I
never miss what I give away. I wonder whether it is all right! Leonora
and Agatha have not so much money to do as they please with -- they are
not so idolised. George said, when he was angry, that papa idolises
me; but they have all these comforts and luxuries, and never think of
anything but doing what they like. They never made me consider as these
Mays do. I should like to know them more. I do so much want a friend of
my own age. It is the only want I have. I have tried to make a friend of
Leonora, but I cannot; she never cares for what I do. If she saw these
Mays she would look down on them. Dear Mrs. Larpent is better than any
one, but then she is so much older. Flora May shall be my friend. I'll
make her call me Meta as soon as she comes. When will it be? The day
after tomorrow
I am not afraid of not keeping my place
you were
quite right, papa. I am more up to my work than I was ever before, and
it comes to me quite fresh and pleasant. I don't promise to get the
Randall scholarship, if Forder and Cheviot stay on, but I can quite keep
up to the mark in school work
That's right
Are you sure you do it
with ease, and without its haunting you at night
Oh, yes; quite sure. I can't think what has made Dr. Hoxton set us on
in such easy things this time. It is very lucky for me, for one gets so
much less time to oneself as dux
What! with keeping order
Ay
I fancy they think they may take liberties because I
am new and young. I must have my eye in all corners of the hall at once,
and do my own work by snatches, as I can
Can you make them attend to you
Why, yes, pretty well, when it comes to the point --'will you, or will
you not?' Cheviot is a great help, too, and has all the weight of being
the eldest fellow amongst us
But still you find it harder work than learning? You had rather have to
master the dead language than the live tongues
A pretty deal
One knows what to be at with
the dead, better than with the living; they don't make parties against
one. I don't wonder at it. It was very hard on some of those great
fellows to have me set before them, but I do not think it is fair to
visit it by putting up the little boys to all sorts of mischief
Shameful
but never mind, Norman, keep your
temper, and do your own duty, and you are man enough to put down such
petty spite
I hope I shall manage rightly
but I shall be glad if I
can get the Randall and get away to Oxford; school is not what it used
to be, and if you don't think me too young
No, I don't; certainly not. Trouble has made a man of you, Norman, and
you are fitter to be with men than boys. In the meantime, if you can
be patient with these fellows, you'll be of great use where you are. If
there had been any one like you at the head of the school in my time, it
would have kept me out of no end of scrapes. How does Tom get on? he is
not likely to fall into this set, I trust
I am not sure
he does pretty well on the whole. Some
of them began by bullying him, and that made him cling to Cheviot and
Ernescliffe, and the better party; but lately I have thought Anderson,
junior, rather making up to him, and I don't know whether they don't
think that tempting him over to them would be the surest way of vexing
me. I have an eye over him, and I hope he may get settled into the
steadier sort before next half
Papa, there is a thing I can't settle in
my own mind. Suppose there had been wrong things done when older boys,
and excellent ones too, were at the head of the school, yet they never
interfered, do you think I ought to let it go on
Certainly not, or why is power given to you
So I thought
I can't see it otherwise. I wish I could,
for it will be horrid to set about it, and they'll think it a regular
shame in me to meddle. Oh! I know what I came into the study for; I
want you to be so kind as to lend me your pocket Greek Testament. I gave
Harry my little one
You are very welcome. What do you want it for
I met with a sermon the other day that recommended
reading a bit of it every day, and I thought I should like to try, now
the Confirmation is coming. One can always have some quiet by getting
away into the cloister
Bless you, my boy! while you go on in this way, I have not much fear
but that you'll know how to manage
Margaret, my dear, I wish to speak to you
I am very sorry for it
I wished to speak
to you about dear Ethel
you know how unwilling
I always am to make any complaint, but I cannot be satisfied with her
present way of going on
Indeed
I am much grieved to hear this. I thought she
had been taking great pains to improve
So she was at one time. I would not by any means wish to deny it, and
it is not of her learning that I speak, but of a hurried, careless way
of doing everything, and an irritability at being interfered with
Ethel's time is so fully occupied
That is the very thing that I was going to observe, my dear. Her time
is too much occupied, and my conviction is, that it is hurtful to a girl
of her age
You see there is that Cocksmoor
You do not know
how far off it is, my dear; much too great a distance for a young girl
to be walking continually in all weathers
That's a question for papa
Besides
those children engross almost all her
time and thoughts. She is working for them, preparing lessons, running
after them continually. It takes off her whole mind from her proper
occupations, unsettles her, and I do think it is beyond what befits a
young lady of her age
In addition
she is at every spare moment busy
with Latin and Greek, and I cannot think that to keep pace with a boy of
Norman's age and ability can be desirable for her
It is a great deal
but
I am convinced that she does more than is right
She may not feel any ill effects at present, but you may depend
upon it, it will tell on her by-and-by. Besides, she does not attend to
anything properly. At one time she was improving in neatness and orderly
habits. Now, you surely must have seen how much less tidy her hair and
dress have been
I have thought her hair looking rather rough
No wonder
for Flora and Mary tell me she hardly
spends five minutes over it in the morning, and with a book before her
the whole time. If I send her up to make it fit to be seen, I meet with
looks of annoyance. She leaves her books in all parts of the school-room
for Mary to put away, and her table drawer is one mass of confusion. Her
lessons she does well enough, I own, though what I should call much too
fast; but have you looked at her work lately
She does not work very well
She works a great deal worse than little Blanche
and though it may not be the fashion to say so in these days, I
consider good needlework far more important than accomplishments. Well,
then, Margaret, I should wish you only just to look at her writing
Won't you stay with me a little while, quietly
we
hardly ever have one of our talks
I didn't mean to vex you, dear Margaret; I like nothing so well, only
we are never alone, and I've no time
Pray do spare me a minute, Ethel, for I have something that I must say
to you, and I am afraid you won't like it -- so do listen kindly
Oh
Miss Winter has been talking to you. I know she said
she would tell you that she wants me to give up Cocksmoor. You aren't
dreaming of it, Margaret
Indeed, dear Ethel, I should be very sorry, but one thing I am sure of,
that there is something amiss in your way of going on
Did she show you that horrid exercise
Yes
Well, I know it was baddish writing, but just listen, Margaret. We
promised six of the children to print them each a verse of a hymn on a
card to learn. Ritchie did three, and then could not go on, for the
book that the others were in was lost till last evening, and then he
was writing for papa. So I thought I would do them before we went to
Cocksmoor, and that I should squeeze time out of the morning; but I got
a bit of Sophocles that was so horridly hard it ate up all my time, and
I don't understand it properly now; I must get Norman to tell me. And
that ran in my head and made me make a mistake in my sum, and have
to begin it again. Then, just as I thought I had saved time over the
exercise, comes Miss Winter and tells me I must do it over again, and
scolds me besides about the ink on my fingers. She would send me up at
once to get it off, and I could not find nurse and her bottle of stuff
for it, so that wasted ever so much more time, and I was so vexed that,
really and truly, my hand shook and I could not write any better
No, I thought it looked as if you had been in one of your agonies
And she thought I did it on purpose, and that made me angry, and so
we got into a dispute, and away went all the little moment I might have
had, and I was forced to go to Cocksmoor as a promise breaker
Don't you think you had better have taken pains at first
Well, so I did with the sense, but I hadn't time to look at the writing
much
You would have made better speed if you had
Oh, yes, I know I was wrong, but it is a great plague altogether.
Really, Margaret, I shan't get Thucydides done
You must wait a little longer, please, Ethel, for I want to say to
you that I am afraid you are doing too much, and that prevents you from
doing things well, as you were trying to do last autumn
You are not thinking of my not going to Cocksmoor
I want you to consider what is to be done, dear Ethel. You thought,
last autumn, a great deal of curing your careless habits, now you seem
not to have time to attend. You can do a great deal very fast, I know,
but isn't it a pity to be always in a hurry
It isn't Cocksmoor that is the reason
No; you did pretty well when you began, but you know that was in the
holidays, when you had no Latin and Greek to do
Oh, but, Margaret, they won't take so much time when I have once got
over the difficulties, and see my way, but just now they have put Norman
into such a frightfully difficult play, that I can hardly get on at all
with it, and there's a new kind of Greek verses, too, and I don't make
out from the book how to manage them. Norman showed me on Saturday, but
mine won't be right. When I've got over that, I shan't be so hurried
But Norman will go on to something harder, I suppose
I dare say I shall be able to do it
Perhaps you might, but I want you to consider if you are not working
beyond what can be good for anybody. You see Norman is much cleverer
than most boys, and you are a year younger; and besides doing all his
work at the head of the school, his whole business of the day, you have
Cocksmoor to attend to, and your own lessons, besides reading all the
books that come into the house. Now isn't that more than is reasonable
to expect any head and hands to do properly
But if I can do it
But can you, dear Ethel? Aren't you always racing from one thing to
another, doing them by halves, feeling hunted, and then growing vexed
I know I have been cross lately
but it's the being so
bothered
And why are you bothered? Isn't it that you undertake too much
What would you have me do
Not give up my children
No
but don't think me very unkind if I say, suppose
you left off trying to keep up with Norman
Oh, Margaret! Margaret
We have
hardly missed doing the same every day since the first Latin grammar was
put into his hands
I know it would be very hard
From hie haec hoc up to Alcaics and
beta Thukididou we have gone on together, and I can't bear to give it
up. I'm sure I can
Stop, Ethel, I really doubt whether you can. Do you know that Norman
was telling papa the other day that it was very odd Dr. Hoxton gave them
such easy lessons
You see
we all know that men have more power
than women, and I suppose the time has come for Norman to pass beyond
you. He would not be cleverer than any one, if he could not do more than
a girl at home
He has so much more time for it
That's the very thing. Now consider, Ethel. His work, after he goes to
Oxford, will be doing his very utmost -- and you know what an utmost that
is. If you could keep up with him at all, you must give your whole time
and thoughts to it, and when you had done so -- if you could get all
the honours in the University -- what would it come to? You can't take a
first-class
I don't want one
I only can't bear not to do as Norman
does, and I like Greek so much
And for that would you give up being a useful, steady daughter and
sister at home? The sort of woman that dear mamma wished to make you,
and a comfort to papa
You own that that is the first thing
Yes
And that it is what you fail in most
Yes
Then, Ethel dearest, when you made up your mind to Cocksmoor, you knew
those things could not be done without a sacrifice
Yes, but I didn't think it would be this
Margaret, if you would only let me leave
off that stupid old French, and horrid dull reading with Miss Winter,
I should have plenty of time for everything; and what does one learn by
hearing Mary read poetry she can't understand
You work, don't you? But indeed, Ethel, don't say that I can let you
leave off anything. I don't feel as if I had that authority. If it be
done at all, it must be by papa's consent, and if you wish me to ask
him about it, I will, only I think it would vex Miss Winter; and I don't
think dear mamma would have liked Greek and Cocksmoor to swallow up all
the little common ladylike things
Margaret, must I give up
everything, and forget all my Latin and Greek
I should think that would be a great pity
If you were
to give up the verse-making, and the trying to do as much as Norman, and
fix some time in the day -- half an hour, perhaps -- for your Greek, I think
it might do very well
Thank you
I'm glad you don't want me to
leave it all off. I hope Norman won't be vexed
Of course, you know, Ethel
it must have come
to this some time or other, and if you find those verses too hard, and
that they take up too much of your time, you had better give them up
I suppose it is a wrong sort of
ambition to want to learn more, in one's own way, when one is told it
is not good for one. I was just going to say I hated being a woman,
and having these tiresome little trifles -- my duty -- instead of learning,
which is yours, Norman
I'm glad you did not
for it would have been very silly
of you; and I assure you, Ethel, it is really time for you to stop, or
you would get into a regular learned lady, and be good for nothing. I
don't mean that knowing more than other people would make you so, but
minding nothing else would
It is perfectly ridiculous to think of her attempting it
I
am glad you have put a stop to it
I am glad I have
and dear Ethel behaved so very well.
If she had resisted, it would have puzzled me very much, I must have
asked you to settle it. But it is very odd, papa, Ethel is the one of
them all who treats me most as if I had real authority over her; she
lets me scold her, asks my leave, never seems to recollect for a moment
how little older I am, and how much cleverer she is. I am sure I
never should have submitted so readily. And that always makes it more
difficult to me to direct her; I don't like to take upon me with her,
because it seems wrong to have her obeying me as if she were a mere
child
She is a fine creature
It just shows the
fact, the higher the mind the readier the submission. But you don't mean
that you have any difficulty with the others
Oh, no, no. Flora never could need any interference, especially from
me, and Mary is a thorough good girl. I only meant that Ethel lays
herself out to be ruled in quite a remarkable way. I am sure, though she
does love learning, her real love is for goodness and for you, papa
Ha
here has Harrison left his book behind him that he was showing us the
gladiators in
It won't take it
out, will it
No, little stupid head, but don't you see, I'm stopping it from running
down the edges, or soaking in. He won't be the wiser till he opens it
again at that place
When he does, he will
Let him. It won't tell tales
He's coming
he is close at the door
Ha! old fellow, you
don't know what you've got there
Hallo! May junior, will you never leave off staring? you won't see a
bit farther for it
come
to your senses, and know your friends
He'll open it
So he will, but I'd bet ninety to one, it is not at that page, or if
he does, it won't tell tales, unless, indeed, he happened to see you
standing there, crouching and shaking. That's the right way to bring him
upon you
But suppose he opens it, and knows who was in school
What then? D'ye think we can't stand by each other, and keep our own
counsel
But the blotting-paper -- suppose he knows that
as if Harrison knew everyone's
blotting-paper
Yes, but Harry used to write his name all over his -- see -- and draw Union
Jacks on it
If he did, the date is not there. Do you think the ink is going to say
March 2nd? Why should not July have done it last half
July would have told if he had
That's no go
Ay! That's the way -- the Mays are all like girls -- can't keep a
secret -- not one of them. There, I've done more for you than ever one of
them would have done -- own it -- and he strode up to Tom, and grasped his
wrists, to force the confession from him
But -- but he'll ask when he finds it out
Let him. We know nothing about it. Don't be coming the good boy over
me like your brothers. That won't do -- I know whose eyes are not too
short-sighted to read upside down
Larkins, do you know how this happened
No, sir
Ernescliffe, were you there
No, sir
Remember, it is concealment that is the
evil, not the damage to the book. I shall have a good opinion ever after
of a boy honest enough to confess, May junior, I saw you
Don't be afraid to speak out if you did meet with
a mischance
No, sir
August
did I see you coming over the bridge
So you have been at Ballhatchet's gate? I can't think what could take
you there. If you want tarts, I am sure poor old Betty's are just as
good. What made you go there
Nothing
Well, mind you don't do it again, or I shall have to take you in hand,
which I shall be very sorry to do. That man is a regular bad character,
and neither my father nor Dr. Hoxton would have one of us have anything
to do with him, as you know
I am afraid you are
getting into a bad way. Why won't you mind what I have told you plenty
of times before, that no good comes of going after Ned Anderson, and
Axworthy, and that set. What were you doing with them to-day
You always sulk when I speak to you.
I suppose you think I have no right to row you, but I do it to save you
from worse. You can't never be found out
If you go on, you will get into some awful scrape,
and papa will be grieved. I would not, for all the world, have him put
out of heart about you. Think of him, Tom, and try to keep straight
If you let
Anderson junior get hold of you, and teach you his tricks, you'll
never be good for anything. He seems good-natured now, but he will turn
against you, as he did with Harry. I know how it is, and you had better
take my word, and trust to me and straightforwardness, when you get into
a mess
I'm in no scrape
You will be then, if you go out of
bounds, and run Anderson's errands, and shirk work. You'd better take
care. It is my place to keep order, and I can't let you off for being my
brother; so remember, if I catch you going to Ballhatchet's again, you
may make sure of a licking
What are you doing here
So you've been there again. What's that under your jacket
Only -- only what I was sent for
What is it? a bottle
Only -- only a bottle of ink
Oh, Tom, Tom, these fellows have brought you a
pretty pass. Who would have thought of such a thing from us
Speak truth
is this for
Anderson junior
I am glad it is not for yourself
but do you remember
what I said, in case I found you there again
Oh! don't, don't
I would never have gone if they had
not made me
Made you
how
They would have thrashed me -- they pinched my fingers in the box -- they
pulled my ears -- oh, don't
Poor little fellow
but it is your own fault. If you
won't keep with me, or Ernescliffe, of course they will bully you. But
I must not let you off -- I must keep my word
I can't help it
and now, don't howl! I
had rather no one knew it. It will soon be over. I never thought to have
this to do to one of us
There, that will do. Stop bellowing, I was obliged, and I
can't have hurt you much, have I
It is nothing to care about, I am
sure; look up
Say you are sorry -- speak
the truth -- keep with me, and no one shall hurt you again
I could not help it, Tom, you've no
business to be sulky
Oh, don't, don't! what will they do to me? give it to me
Did they give you the money to pay for it
Yes; let me have it
How much was it
Fourpence
I'll settle that
Now then,
Tom, don't brood on it any more. Here's a chance for you of getting quit
of their errands. If you will keep in my sight. I'll take care no one
bullies you, and you may still leave off these disgraceful tricks, and
do well
If you will go on in this way, I can't help it, but you'll be sorry
some day
Anderson Junior
there's your
money. I am not going to let Stoneborough School be turned into a gin
palace. I give you notice, it is not to be. Now you are not to bully May
junior for telling me. He did not, I found him out
Mother! mother
have I been
harsh to your poor little tender sickly boy? I couldn't help it. Oh! if
you were but here! We are all going wrong! What shall I do? How should
Tom be kept from this evil?-- it is ruining him! mean, false, cowardly,
sullen -- all that is worst -- and your son -- oh! mother! and all I do only
makes him shrink more from me. It will break my father's heart, and you
will not be there to comfort him
rowing
Suppose
that when you are a clergyman,
you could be Curate of Cocksmoor, when there is a church there
When
How came that book
here
It is Mr. Harrison's
Yes, I know, but how came it here
Richard borrowed it to look out something, and Ethel brought it down
Norman
do you know this book
Smith? Yes, it is in the school library
There's everything in it that one wants, I do believe. Here is such an
account of ancient galleys -- I never knew how they managed their banks of
rowers before -- oh! and the Greek houses -- look at the pictures too
Some of them are the same as Mr. Rivers's gems
Oh! what did I see? is that ink
Yes, didn't you hear
Mr. Harrison told Ritchie when he
borrowed it, that unluckily one day this spring he left it in school,
and some of the boys must have upset an inkstand over it; but, though he
asked them all round, each denied it. How I should hate for such things
to happen! and it was a prize-book too
Dear me! how funny! why,
how did Harry's blotting-paper get in there
Harry's
blotting-paper! How do you know that, Mary
It is Harry's
because of that anchor up
in one corner, and the Union Jack in the other. Don't you see, Ethel
Yes
nobody drew that but Harry
Ay, and there are his buttons
Don't you remember one day
last holidays, papa desired Harry to write and ask Mr. Ernescliffe what
clothes he ought to have for the naval school, and all the time he
was writing the letter, he was drawing sailors' buttons on his
blotting-paper. I wonder how ever it got into Mr. Harrison's book
I know! Harry gave his paper-case to Tom.
That's the way it got to school
Tom
where are you
going
To bed
Some one might have used the first blotting-paper that
came to hand
Come here, Tom
Look in my face
Don't be afraid to tell us the meaning
of this. If any of your friends have done it, we will keep your secret.
Look up, and speak out. How did your blotting-paper come there
I can't have you roaring here to distress Margaret
Come into the study with me
that, if dear Tom had not done it, she would come and
tell her
I am afraid there is no hope of that
After all
he has not said anything. If he has only done
it, and not confessed, that is not so bad -- it is only the usual fashion
of boys
Has he been asked? Did he deny it
I have sent him up to bed
I must take him to Harrison to-morrow morning. It is a
terrible business
Has he confessed it
I can hardly call such a thing a confession -- I wormed it out bit by
bit -- I could not tell whether he was telling truth or not, till I called
Norman in
But he has not said anything more untrue
Yes, he has though
He said Ned Anderson
put the paper there, and had been taking up the ink with it --'twas
his doing -- then when I came to cross-examine him I found that though
Anderson did take up the ink, it was Tom himself who knocked it down -- I
never heard anything like it -- I never could have believed it
It must all be Ned Anderson's doing
They are enough to
spoil anybody
I am afraid they have done him a great deal of harm
And what have you been about all the time
I should have thought that with you at the
head of the school, the child might have been kept out of mischief; but
there have you been going your own way, and leaving him to be ruined by
the very worst set of boys
I have
tried. I have not done as much as I ought, perhaps, but
No, I think not, indeed
Sending a boy there,
brought up as he had been, without the least tendency to deceit
Oh, no, no, papa
Poor little Tom
had not always been quite sincere
Indeed! and why was I left to send him to school without knowing it?
The place of all others to foster deceit
It was my fault, papa
And mine
Ethel told us we were
very wrong, and I wish we had followed her advice. It was by far the
best, but we were afraid of vexing you
Every one seems to have been combined to hide what they ought not
Pray, how came you not to identify this
paper
I did not know it
He ought
never to have been sent to school
that tendency was
the very worst beginning
It was a great pity; I was very wrong
I did not mean to blame you, my dear
I know you only meant to act for the best, but
Well, do you know, I think he will do better now. You see, Edward made
him conceal it, and he has been going on with it on his mind, and in
that boy's power ever since; but now it is cleared up and confessed, he
will begin afresh and do better. Don't you think so, Norman? don't you,
papa
I should have more hope if I had seen anything like confession or
repentance
but that provoked me more than all -- I
could only perceive that he was sorry to be found out, and afraid of
punishment
Perhaps, when he has recovered the first fright, he will come to his
better self
Papa, I
am very sorry you should think I neglected Tom. I dare say I might have
done better for him, but, indeed, I have tried
I am sure you have, Norman. I spoke hastily, my boy -- you will not think
more of it. When a thing like this comes on a man, he hardly knows what
he says
If Harry were here
it would all do better. He would make a link with Tom, but I have so
little, naturally, to do with the second form, that it is not easy to
keep him in sight
Yes, yes, I know that very well. It is no one's fault but my own; I
should not have sent him there without knowing him better. But you see
how it is, Norman -- I have trusted to her, till I have grown neglectful,
and it is well if it is not the ruin of him
Perhaps he will take a turn, as Ethel says
Good-night, papa
I have a blessing to be thankful for in you, at least
What other young fellow of that age and spirit would
have borne so patiently with my injustice? Not I, I am sure! a fine
father I show myself to these poor children -- neglect, helplessness,
temper -- Oh, Maggie
a very good thing, it will keep him out of
mischief
Dear, dear papa
how kind he is! But he can never depend upon me again -- I
have been the ruin of my poor little Tom
Well
I can't see why you should put yourself
into such a state about it
Have not I done very wrong, and perhaps
hurt Tom for life
I hope not
You and I made a mistake, but it does not
follow that Tom would have kept out of this scrape, if we had told my
father our notion
It would not have been on my conscience
he would not
have sent him to school
I don't know that
At any rate we meant to do right,
and only made a mistake. It was unfortunate, but I can't tell why you go
and make yourself ill, by fancying it worse than it is. The boy has
done very wrong, but people get cured of such things in time, and it is
nonsense to fret as if he were not a mere child of eight years old. You
did not teach him deceit
No, but I concealed it -- papa is disappointed, when he thought he could
trust me
Well! I suppose no one could expect never to make mistakes
Self-sufficiency
that has been the root of all!
Do you know, Ritchie, I believe I was expecting that I could always
judge rightly
You generally do
no one else could do half what you
do
So you have said, papa, and all of you, till you have spoilt me. I have
thought it myself, Ritchie
It is true
But then
I have grown to think much of it, and not
like to be interfered with. I thought I could manage by myself, and when
I said I would not worry papa, it was half because I liked the doing
and settling all about the children myself. Oh! if it could have been
visited in any way but by poor Tom's faults
Well
if you felt so, it was a pity, though I never
should have guessed it. But you see you will never feel so again, and as
Tom is only one, and there are nine to govern, it is all for the best
It is a good lesson against my love of being first. But
indeed it is difficult -- papa can so little bear to be harassed
He could not at first, but now he is strong and well, it is different
He looks terribly thin and worn still
so much
older
Ay, I think he will never get back his young looks; but except his weak
arm, he is quite well
And then his -- his quick way of speaking may do harm
Yes, that was what I feared for Tom
and there was the
mistake. I see it now. My father always is right in the main, though
he is apt to frighten one at first, and it is what ought to be that he
should rule his own house. But now, Margaret, it is silly to worry about
it any more -- let me fetch baby, and don't think of it
I don't want them. Only let me have one for Aubrey, because he
is so little. All the rest are for the poor children at Cocksmoor
Oh! how do you do? How delightful to meet you! I was wondering if we
should! Little Blanche too
and here's Mrs. Larpent -- Mrs.
Larpent -- Miss Flora May. How is Miss May
I hope you are not in a hurry
I want your advice. You know all about schools, don't you? I am come
to get some Easter presents for our children, and I am sure you can help
me
Are the children little or big
Oh! all sorts and sizes. I have some books for the great sensible ones,
and some stockings and shoes for the tiresome stupid ones, but there are
some dear little pets that I want nice things for. There -- there's a doll
that looks just fit for little curly-headed Annie Langley, don't you
think so, Mrs. Larpent
Papa has given me a benefaction of &pound;5 for my school-gifts
is not that charming? I wish you would come to the feast. Now, do! It
is on Easter Tuesday. Won't you come
Thank you, I am afraid we can't. I should like it very much
You never will come to me. You have no compassion
We should enjoy coming very much. Perhaps, in the summer, when Margaret
is better
Could not she spare any of you? Well, I shall talk to papa, and make
him talk to Dr. May. Mrs. Larpent will tell you I always get my way.
Don't I? Good-bye. See if I don't
I wish I
might have bought the writing-box for Janet Taylor! Why does not papa
give us money to get pretty things for the children
Because he is not so rich as Miss Rivers's papa
Was
not that carriage Mr. Rivers's of Abbotstoke Grange
Yes. We like Miss Rivers very much
Oh! do you visit her? I knew he was a patient of Dr. May
She has been begging us to come to her school
feast, but I do not think we can manage it
Oh, indeed! the Grange is very beautiful, is it not
Very
Good-morning
Why, Flora, have you
seen the Grange
No, but papa and Norman said so
I don't want it for myself, I want to have pretty things to give
away
I have had a sight, too, of little maidens preparing Easter gifts
Have you, papa? What were they? Were they as nice as Miss Rivers's
I don't know, but I thought they were the best sort of gifts, for I saw
that plenty of kind thought and clever contrivance went to them, ay, and
some little self-denial too
Papa, you look as if you meant something; but ours are nothing but
nasty old rubbish
Perhaps some fairy, or something better, has brought a wand to touch
the rubbish, Blanche; for I think that the maidens gave what would have
been worthless kept, but became precious as they gave it
Do you mean the list of our flannel petticoats, papa, that Mary has
made into a tippet
Perhaps I meant Mary's own time and pains, as well as the tippet. Would
she have done much good with them otherwise
No, she would have played. Oh! then you like the presents because they
are our own making? I never thought of that. Was that the reason you did
not give us any of your sovereigns to buy things with
Perhaps I want my sovereigns for the eleven gaping mouths at home,
Blanche. But would not it be a pity to spoil your pleasure? You would
have lost all the chattering and laughing and buzzing I have heard round
Margaret of late, and I am quite sure Miss Rivers can hardly be as happy
in the gifts that cost her nothing, as one little girl who gives her
sugar-plums out of her own mouth
They are our presents, not yours
Yes, I see. I like them
better now
Ay, ay
Seeing Miss Rivers's must not take the shine
out of yours, my little maids; for if you can't give much, you have the
pleasure of giving the best of all, your labour of love
The longer I live, the more I see the
blessing of being born in a state of life where you can't both eat your
cake and give it away
You would not have Blanche underrate Miss Rivers
No, indeed, she is as good and sweet a creature as ever came across
me -- most kind to Margaret, and loving to all the world. I like to see
one whom care and grief have never set their grip upon. Most likely she
would do like Ethel, if she had the opportunity, but she has not
So she has not the same merit
We don't talk of merit. I mean that the power of sacrifice is a great
advantage. The habit of small sacrifice that is made necessary in a
large family is a discipline that only-children are without: and so,
with regard to wealth, I think people are to be pitied who can give
extensively out of such abundance that they can hardly feel the want
In effect, they can do much more
I am not sure of that. They can, of course, but it must be at the cost
of personal labour and sacrifice. I have often thought of the words,
'Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee.' And 'such
as we have' it is that does the good; the gold, if we have it, but, at
any rate, the personal influence; the very proof of sincerity, shown by
the exertion and self-denial, tells far more than money lightly come by,
lightly spent
Do you mean that a person who maintained a whole school would do less
good than one who taught one child
If the rich person take no pains, and leave the school to take care
of itself -- nay, if he only visit it now and then, and never let it
inconvenience him, has he the least security that the scholars are
obtaining any real good from it? If the teacher of the one child is
doing his utmost, he is working for himself at least
Suppose we could build, say our church and school, on Cocksmoor at
once, and give our superintendence besides
If things were ripe for it, the means would come. As it is, it is a
fine field for Ethel and Richard. I believe it will be the making of
them both. I am sure it is training Ethel, or making her train herself,
as we could never have done without it. But here, come in and see old
Mrs. Robins. A visit from you will cheer her up
It was just
like papa
that it was
so nice; and now she did not care about Miss Rivers's fine presents at
all, for papa said what one made oneself was better to give than what
one bought. And papa said, too, that it was a good thing not to be rich,
for then one never felt the miss of what one gave away
Yes
those Riverses are open-handed. They really
seem to have so much money, that they don't know what to do with it. My
brother is ready to complain that they spoil his parish. It is all meant
so well, and they are so kind-hearted and excellent, that it is a shame
to find fault, and I tell Charles and his wife that their grumbling at
such a squire proves them the most spoiled of all
Indiscriminate liberality
I should guess the old
gentleman to be rather soft
That's one thing. The parish is so small, and there are so few to
shower all this bounty on, and they are so utterly unused to country
people. They seem to think by laying out money they can get a show set
of peasants in rustic cottages, just as they have their fancy cows and
poultry -- all that offends the eye out of the way
Making it a matter of taste
I'm sure I would
What's the use of
getting oneself disgusted
One must not begin with showing dislike
or
Ay -- you like rags, don't you? but hush
That is just what I should expect of Mr. Rivers
he
has cultivated his taste till it is getting to be a disease, but his
daughter has no lack of wit
Perhaps not. Charles and Mary are very fond of her, but she is entirely
inexperienced, and that is a serious thing with so much money to throw
about. She pays people for sending their children to school, and keeping
their houses tidy; and there is so much given away, that it is enough to
take away all independence and motive for exertion. The people speculate
on it, and take it as a right; by-and-by there will be a reaction -- she
will find out she is imposed upon, take offence, and for the rest of her
life will go about saying how ungrateful the poor are
It is a pity good people won't have a little common-sense
But there's something so bewitching in that little girl, that I
can't give her up. I verily believe she will right herself
I have scarcely seen her
She has won papa's heart
by her kindness to me
You see her beautiful
flowers? She seems to me made to lavish pleasures on others wherever she
goes
Oh, yes, they are most kind-hearted
It is only
the excess of a virtue that could be blamed in them, and they are most
valuable to the place. She will learn experience in time -- I only hope
she will not be spoiled
Don't you wish we had some of this superfluity of
the Riverses for poor Cocksmoor
I wish we had anything for Cocksmoor! Here's a great hole in my boot,
and nurse says I must get a new pair, that is seven-and-sixpence gone! I
shall never get the first pound made up towards building
And pounds seem nothing to them
Yes, but if they don't manage right with them! I'll tell you, Flora,
I got into a fit of wishing the other day; it does seem such a grievous
pity to see those children running to waste for want of daily teaching,
and Jenny Hall had forgotten everything. I was vexed, and thought it was
all no use while we could not do more; but just then I began to look out
the texts Ritchie had marked for me to print for them to learn, and the
first was, 'Be thou faithful over a few things, and I will make thee
ruler over many things,' and then I thought perhaps we were learning to
be faithful with a few things. I am sure what they said to-night showed
it was lucky we have not more in our hands. I should do wrong for ever
with the little we have if it were not for Ritchie and Margaret. By the
time we have really got the money together for the school, perhaps I
shall have more sense
Got the money! As if we ever could
Oh, yes! we shall and will. It need not be more than &pound;70, Ritchie says,
and I have twelve shillings for certain, put out from the money for hire
of the room, and the books and clothes, and, in spite of these horrid
boots, I shall save something out of this quarter, half-a-crown at
least. And I have another plan besides
Could not a window be opened
Where's Aubrey
With Norman. Norman said he would not let him go into the black-hole,
so he has got him out of doors. Ethel, we must come out! You don't know
what an atmosphere it is! Blanche, go out to Norman
Flora, Flora! you don't consider
Yes, yes. It is not at all cold. Let them have their presents out of
doors and eat their buns
that it had been rather
hot
ugly up in her face
Well, really, you have made a beginning. There is an
improvement in tone among those children, that is more satisfactory than
any progress they may have made
Will you drive home, Richard
Don't you wish it
No, thank you, I have a headache, and walking may take it off
A headache again -- I am sorry to hear it
It is only that suffocating den of yours. My head ached from the moment
I looked into it. How can you take Ethel into such a hole, Richard? It
is enough to kill her to go on with it for ever
It is not so every day
It is a warm
day, and there was an unusual crowd
I shall speak to my father
It is not fit that Ethel should give up everything, health
and all, to such a set as these. They look as if they had been picked
out of the gutter -- dirt, squalor, everything disgusting, and summer
coming on, too, and that horrid place with no window to open! It is
utterly unbearable
You
must get over such things as these if you mean to be a clergyman,
Norman
Whatever I am to be, it does not concern the girls being in such a
place as this. I am surprised that you could suffer it
Oh, papa, papa! thank you
How very kind of you! How I have wished to see the
Grange, and all Norman talks about! Oh, dear! I am so glad you are going
there too
Why, what should you do with me
Oh, dear! I should not like it at all without you! It would be no fun
at all by ourselves. I wish Flora would come home. How pleased she will
be! Papa, I do wish you would look as if you didn't mind it! I can't
enjoy it if you don't like going
I shall when I am there, my dear
It will be a fine day's
sport for you
But can't you like it beforehand, papa
Not just this minute, Ethel
All
I like just now is my girl's not being able to do without me; but we'll
do the best we can. So your flock acquitted themselves brilliantly? Who
is your Senior Wrangler
It will be very pleasant
it was very kind of
papa to consent. You will have Richard and Norman, Margaret, to be with
you in the evening
Ay, ay, I know the face Norman puts on
if he looks into a cottage
Well
all I know is, that my
head ached all the rest of the day
Very likely, but your head is not Ethel's, and there were twice as many
people as the place was intended to hold
A stuffy hole, full of peat-smoke, and with a window that can't open at
the best of times
Peat-smoke is wholesome
You don't know what it is, papa, or you would never let Ethel spend her
life there. It is poisonous
I'll take care of Ethel
But, Norman, it can't be so very bad, or Richard would not allow it
Richard is deluded
but if he chooses to run after dirty
brats, why should he take Ethel there
My dear Norman, you know it is all Ethel's doing
Yes, I know she has gone crazy after them, and given up all her Greek
for it. It is past endurance
Well, but surely, Norman, it is better they should do what they can for
those poor creatures, than for Ethel to learn Greek
I don't know that. Let those who are fit for nothing else go and
drone over A B C with ragged children, if they like. It is just their
vocation; but there is an order in everything, Margaret, and minds of a
superior kind are intended for higher purposes, not to be wasted in this
manner
I don't know whether they are wasted
Not wasted? Not in doing what any one can do? I know what you'll
say about the poor. I grant it, but high ability must be given for a
purpose, not to be thrown away. It is common-sense, that some one must
be meant to do the dirty work
I see what you mean, Norman, but I don't quite like that to be called
by such a name. I think
Don't you think you dislike
such things more than
Any one must abominate dirt and slovenliness. I know what you mean. My
father thinks 'tis all nonsense in me, but his profession has made him
insensible to such things, and he fancies every one else is the same!
Now, Margaret, am I unreasonable
I am sure I don't know, dear Norman
I dare say it was very
disagreeable
And you think, too, that I made a disturbance for nothing
No, indeed I don't, nor does dear papa. I have no doubt he will see
whether it is proper for Ethel. All I think he meant is, that perhaps
your not being well last winter has made you a little more sensitive in
such things
I told you I should
get my way
Why, Ethel,
you are quite overwhelming Mrs. Larpent
the feast ate merrily
I beg
your pardon
Meta
was that one of the
Miss Mays
Yes, papa, Ethel, the third, the clever one
I thought she must be one of them from her dress; but what a difference
between her and the others
Oh, I am sorry
Easter won't come again for a whole year,
and it has been so delightful. How that dear little Annie smiled and
nursed her doll! I wish I could see her show it to her mother! Oh, how
nice it is! I am so glad papa brought me to live in the country. I don't
think anything can be so charming in all the world as seeing little
children happy
It is not worth while to be unhappy about that, Ethel. If it is an
effort, it will be good for him when he is once here. I know he will
enjoy it
Yes, I should think he would -- I hope he will. He must like you to have
such a friend as Miss Rivers. How pretty she is
Now, Ethel, it is high time to dress. Pray make yourself look
nice -- don't twist up your hair in that any-how fashion
Never mind, Flora, it is quite tidy, I am sure, there -- do let me be in
peace. You are like old nurse
So those are all the thanks I get
Well, thank you very much, dear Flora. You are a famous person. How I
wish Margaret could see that lovely mimosa
And, Ethel, do take care. Pray don't poke and spy when you come into
the room, and don't frown when you are trying to see. I hope you won't
have anything to help at dinner. Take care how you manage
I'll try
As one star differeth
from another star in glory
that was the lesson to-day,
papa
So you are at that trick, Larkins
There! that bet is lost
I laid Hill half-a-crown
that you would not see me when you were mooning over your verses
Well, I have seen you. And now
Come, you would not thrash a fellow when you have just lost him
half-a-crown! Single misfortunes never come alone, they say; so
there's my money and my credit gone, to say nothing of Ballhatchet's
ginger-beer
You know, Larkins, I have
given out that such things are not to be. It is a melancholy fact
Ay, so you must make an example of me
Better call all the fellows together, hadn't you, and
make it more effective? It would be grateful to one's feelings, you
know; and June
if
you'll only lay it on soft, I'll take care it makes noise enough. Great
cry, little wool, you know
Come with me
I'll take care you are example enough.
What did you give for those articles
Fifteen-pence halfpenny. Rascally dear, isn't it? but the old rogue
makes one pay double for the risk! You are making his fortune, you have
raised his prices fourfold
I'll take care of that
Why, where are you taking me? Back to him
I am going to gratify your wish to be an example
I'm to be turned off on the spot
where the crime took place -- a warning to all beholders. Only let me send
home for old Neptune's chain, if you please, sir -- if you hang me in
the combined watch-chains of the school, I fear they would give way and
defeat the purposes of justice
Come in
Mr. May! can I have the pleasure, sir
Mr. Ballhatchet, you know that it is contrary to the rules that there
should be any traffic with the school without special permission
Yes, sir -- just nothing, sir -- only when the young gentlemen come
here, sir -- I'm an old man, sir, and I don't like not to oblige a young
gentleman, sir
Very likely
but I am come to give you fair notice. I
am not going to allow the boys here to be continually smuggling spirits
into the school
Spirits! bless you, sir, I never thought of no sich a thing! 'Tis
nothing in life but ginger-beer -- very cooling drink, sir, of my wife's
making; she had the receipt from her grandmother up in Leicestershire.
Won't you taste a bottle, sir
up to him
Give me yours, Larkins
Bless me! it is a little flat. I wonder how that happened? I'll be
most happy to change it, sir. Wife! what's the meaning of Mr. Larkins's
ginger-pop being so flat
It is very curious ginger-beer indeed, Mr. Ballhatchet
and since it is liable to have such strange properties, I cannot allow
it to be used any more at the school
Very well, sir-as you please, sir. You are the first gentleman as has
objected, sir
And, once for all, I give you warning
that if I
have reason to believe you have been obliging the young gentlemen, the
magistrates and the trustees of the road shall certainly hear of it
You would not hurt a poor man, sir, as is drove to it -- you as has such
a name for goodness
I have given you warning
The next time I find any of
your bottles in the school fields, your licence goes. Now, there are
your goods. Give Mr. Larkins back the fifteen-pence. I wonder you are
not ashamed of such a charge
Ha! there's Harrison
How he stared! My eyes! June, you'll be had up for
dealing with old Ball
You've
settled him, I believe. Well, is justice satisfied
It would be no use thrashing you
There's
nothing to be got out of you but chaff
But I'll tell you what, Larkins, I can't think how a fellow like you
can go and give in to these sneaking, underhand tricks that make you
ashamed to look one in the face
It is only for the fun of it
Well, I wish you would find your fun some other way. Come, Larkins,
recollect yourself a little -- you have a home not so far off. How do you
think your father and mother would fancy seeing you reading the book you
had yesterday, or coming out of Ballhatchet's with a bottle of spirits,
called by a false name
Our own
There she is
Who was that with you
That was May senior, our dux
Was it? I am very glad you should be with him, my dear George. He is
very kind to you, I hope
He is a jolly good fellow
That they do, my hearty
What would old Nicholas Randall say to these nineteenth-century
doings
Down, with them
Down with it! Hurrah, we'll have our footpath open again! Down with the
fences! Britons never shall be slaves
That's the way to bring it to bear
See if he
dares to bring an action against us. Hurrah
Yes, that's the way to settle it
Let's have it down. It
is an oppressive, arbitrary, shameful proceeding, and we'll show him we
won't submit to it
What will Dr. Hoxton say to the dux
I
didn't know he was to be dux in mischief as well as out of it
You can't call it mischief, papa, to resent an unwarranted encroachment
of our rights by such an old ruffian as that. One's blood is up to think
of the things he has done
He richly deserves it, no doubt
and yet I wish you
had been out of the row. If there is any blame, you will be the first it
will light on
I am glad of it, that is but just. Anderson and I seem to have stirred
it up -- if it wanted stirring -- for it was in every fellow there; indeed,
I had no notion it was coming to this when I began
Oratory
Ha, Norman! Think a little another
time, my boy, before you take the law into your own hands, or, what is
worse, into a lot of hands you can't control for good, though you may
excite them to harm
I am sorry, sir
but I believe it was the general
feeling that he had no right to stop the alley, and, therefore, that it
could not be wrong to break it down
Whether he has a right or not is not a question to be settled by you.
So I find that you, whose proper office it is to keep order, have been
inflaming the mischievous and aggressive spirit amongst the others. I am
surprised at you; I thought you were more to be depended upon, May, in
your position
I am sorry, sir
Take care, then, that nothing of the kind happens again
old Tomkins had his fence up five times
higher than before
Have at him again, say I
What business has he
coming stopping up ways that were made before he was born
We shall catch it from the doctor if we do
He
looked in no end of a rage yesterday when he talked about the credit of
the school
Who cares for the credit of the school
we
are out of the school now -- we are townsmen -- Stoneborough boys -- citizens
not bound to submit to injustice. No, no, the old rogue knew it would
not stand if it was brought into court, so he brings down old Hoxton on
us instead -- a dirty trick he deserves to be punished for
Anderson
you had better not excite them again, they are
ripe for mischief. It will go further than it did yesterday -- don't you
see
It is of no use to rave about old Tomkins
If it is illegal, some one will go to law
about it, and we shall have our alley again. We have shown him our mind
once, and that is enough; if we let him alone now, he will see 'tis only
because we are ordered, not for his sake. It would be just putting
him in the right, and maybe winning his cause for him, to use any more
violence. There's law for you, Anderson. So now no more about it -- let us
all go home like rational fellows. August, where's August
You are late at home to-night -- it
is half-past nine
I have been taking a walk, sir
Where's Tom
What! he is not come home
No! Was he not with you
I missed him after school. I was persuaded he was come home. I have
been to look for the yellow bog-bean. There, Margaret. Had not I better
go and look for him
Yes, do
The boy is never off one's mind
What have you been doing
You have got yourselves
into a tremendous scrape
Randall and Stoneborough for ever
August! May junior! Tom! answer me! Is he here
There they are, nothing like 'em
for mischief
Come, young gentlemen
be off, if you please. We
don't want to have none of you at the station to-night
Norman -- why, Norman, what's the
matter
Where's Tom
Has he got into disgrace
about this business of Tomkins? That boy
He has only got an imposition
No, it is not
that -- it is myself
I am turned down in the school
What-how -- speak, Norman.
What have you done
Nothing
nothing
That's right
What's the meaning
of it...a misunderstanding
Yes
It is all Anderson's doing -- a word
from him would have set all straight -- but he would not; I believe, from
my heart, he held his tongue to get me down, that he might have the
Randall
We'll see you righted
Come, tell me the
whole story, Norman. Is it about this unlucky business
Yes. The town-fellows were all up about it last evening, when we came
out of school. Anderson senior himself began to put them up to having
the fence down again. Yes, that he did -- I remember his very words -- that
Tomkins could not bring it into court, and so set old Hoxton at us.
Well, I told them it would not do -- thought I had settled them -- saw them
off home -- yes, Simpson, and Benson, and Grey, up the High Street, and
the others their way. I only left Axworthy going into a shop when I set
off on my walk. What could a fellow do more? How was I to know that
that Axworthy would get them together again, and take them to this
affair -- pull up the stakes -- saw them down -- for they were hard to get
down -- shy all sorts of things over into the court -- hoot at old Tomkins's
man, when he told them to be off -- and make a bonfire of the sticks at
last
And Harvey Anderson was there
No -- not he. He is too sharp -- born and bred attorney as he is -- he
talked them up to the mischief when my back was turned, and then sneaked
quietly home, quite innocent, and out of the scrape
But Dr. Hoxton can never entertain a suspicion that you had anything to
do with it
Yes, he does though. He thinks I incited them, and Tomkins and the
policeman declare I was there in the midst of the row -- and not one of
these fellows will explain how I came at the last to look for Tom
Not Tom himself
He did try to speak, poor little fellow, but, after the other affair,
his word goes for nothing, and so, it seems, does mine. I did think
Hoxton would have trusted me
And did not he
He did not in so many words accuse me of -- of -- but he told me he
had serious charges brought against me -- Mr. Harrison had seen me at
Ballhatchet's, setting an example of disregard to rules -- and, again, Mr.
Harrison saw me coming in at a late hour last night. 'I know he did,'
I said, and I explained where I had been, and they asked for proofs! I
could hardly answer, from surprise, at their not seeming to believe me,
but I said you could answer for my having come in with the flowers for
my sister
To be sure I will -- I'll go this instant
It is of no use, papa, to-night; Dr. Hoxton has a dinner-party
He is always having parties. I wish he would mind them less, and his
business more. You disbelieved! but I'll see justice done you, Norman,
the first thing to-morrow. Well
Well then, I said, old Ballhatchet could tell that I crossed the bridge
at the very time they were doing this pretty piece of work, for he was
sitting smoking in his porch when I went home, and, would you believe
it? the old rascal would not remember who passed that evening! It is all
his malice and revenge -- nothing else
Why -- what have you been doing to him
Cheviot
told me I should get nothing but ill-will, and so I have -- all those town
fellows turn against me now, and though they know as well as possible
how it was, they won't say a word to right me, just out of spite,
because I have stopped them from all the mischief I could
Well, then
They asked me whether -- since I allowed that I had been there at last -- I
had dispersed the boys. I said no, I had no time. Then they desired to
know who was there, and that I had not seen; it was all dark, and there
had not been a moment, and if I guessed, it was no affair of mine to
say. So they ordered me down, and had up Ned Anderson, and one or two
more who were known to have been in the riot, and then they consulted
a good while, and sent for me; Mr. Wilmot was for me, I am sure, but
Harrison was against me. Dr. Hoxton sat there, and made me one of his
addresses. He said he would not enter on the question whether I had been
present at the repetition of the outrage, as he called it, but what was
quite certain was, that I had abused my authority and influence in the
school; I had been setting a bad example, and breaking the rules
about Ballhatchet, and so far from repressing mischief, I had been the
foremost in it, making inflammatory harangues, leading them to commit
violence the first time, and the next, if not actually taking part in
it personally, at any rate not preventing it. In short, he said it was
clear I had not weight enough for my post -- it was some excuse I had been
raised to it so young -- but it was necessary to show that proficiency in
studies did not compensate for disregard of discipline, and so he turned
me down below the first six! So there's another May in disgrace
It shall not last -- it shall not last, my boy
I'll see you righted. Dr. Hoxton shall hear the whole
story. I am not for fathers interfering in general, but if ever there
was a case, this is! Why, it is almost actionable -- injuring your whole
prospects in life, and all because he will not take the trouble to make
an investigation! It is a crying shame
Every fellow in the school knows how it was
and plenty
of them would be glad to tell, if they had only the opportunity; but he
asked no one but those two or three worst fellows that were at the fire,
and they would not tell, on purpose. The school will go to destruction
now -- they'll get their way, and all I have been striving for is utterly
undone
You setting a bad example! Dr. Hoxton little knows what you have been
doing. It is a mockery, as I have always said, to see that old fellow
sit wrapped up in his pomposity, eating his good dinners, and knowing no
more what goes on among his boys than this umbrella! But he will listen
to me -- and we'll make those boys confess the whole -- ay, and have up
Ballhatchet himself, to say what your traffic with him was; and we will
see what old Hoxton says to you then, Norman
There's no need
they should know of it
Tell Adams to get the gig ready -- I'll let him know whether he is to go
with me
What, up already, Norman?
I came to tell you that our affairs must wait till the afternoon. It
is very provoking, for Hoxton may be gone out, but Mr. Lake's son, at
Groveswood, has an attack on the head, and I must go at once. It is a
couple of dozen miles off or more. I have hardly ever been there, and it
may keep me all day
Shall you go in the gig? Shall I drive you
That's what I thought of, if you like it. I thought you would sooner be
out of the way
Thank you -- yes, papa. Shall I come and help you to finish dressing
Yes, do, thank you; it will hasten matters. Only, first order in some
breakfast. What makes you up so early? Have not you slept
Not much -- it has been such a hot night
And you have a headache. Well, we will find a cure for that before the
day is over. I have settled what to say to old Hoxton
Thank Heaven you are come, sir
he is fearfully
bad
Not quite
so hopeless as at first
Papa, I have been thinking about it, and I believe it would be better
to let it alone, if you please
Not apply to Dr. Hoxton
Well, I think not. I have been considering it, and it does hardly seem
to me the right thing. You see, if I had not you close at hand, this
could never be explained, and it seems rather hard upon Anderson, who
has no father, and the other fellows, who have theirs farther off
Right, Norman, that is what my father before me always said, and the
way I have always acted myself; much better let a few trifles go on not
just as one would wish, than be for ever interfering. But I really think
this is a case for it, and I don't think you ought to let yourself be
influenced by the fear of any party-spirit
It is not only that, papa -- I have been thinking a good deal to-day, and
there are other reasons. Of course I should wish Dr. Hoxton to know that
I spoke the truth about that walk, and I hope you will let him know, as
I appealed to you. But, on cooler thoughts, I don't believe Dr. Hoxton
could seriously suspect me of such a thing as that, and it was not on
that ground that I am turned down, but that I did not keep up sufficient
discipline, and allowed the outrage, as he calls it. Now, you know, that
is, after a fashion, true. If I had not gone on like an ass the other
day, and incited them to pull down the fences, they would not have done
it afterwards, and perhaps I ought to have kept on guard longer. It was
my fault, and we can't deny it
Well, well, I suppose it
was -- but it was just as much Harvey Anderson's -- and is he to get the
scholarship because he has added meanness to the rest
He was not dux
It was more shabby than I
thought was even in him. But I don't know that the feeling about him is
not one reason. There has always been a rivalry and bitterness between
us two, and if I were to get the upper hand now, by means not in the
usual course, such as the fellows would think ill of, it would be worse
than ever, and I should always feel guilty and ashamed to look at him
Over-refining, Norman
Besides, don't you remember, when his father died, how glad you and
everyone were to get him a nomination, and it was said that if he gained
a scholarship it would be such a relief to poor Mrs. Anderson? Now he
has this chance, it does seem hard to deprive her of it. I should not
like to know that I had done so
Whew
You could not make it straight, papa, without explaining about the
dealing with Ballhatchet, and that would be unfair to them all, even the
old rogue himself; for I promised to say nothing about former practices,
as long as he did not renew them
Well! I don't want to compromise you, Norman. You know your own ground
best, but I don't like it at all. You don't know the humiliation
of disgrace. Those who have thought highly of you, now thinking you
changed -- I don't know how to bear it for you
I don't mind anything while you trust me
not
much I mean, except Mr. Wilmot. You must judge, papa, and do as you
please
No, you must judge, Norman. Your confidence in me ought not to be a
restraint. It has always been an understood thing that what you say
at home is as if it had not been said, as regards my dealings with the
masters
I know, papa. Well, I'll tell you what brought me to this. I tumbled
about all night in a rage, when I thought how they had served me, and
of Hoxton's believing it all, and how he might only half give in to your
representation, and then I gloried in Anderson's coming down from his
height, and being seen in his true colours. So it went on till morning
came, and I got up. You know you gave me my mother's little 'Thomas
a Kempis'. I always read a bit every morning. To-day it was, 'Of four
things that bring much inward peace'. And what do you think they were?--


    "'Be desirous, my son, to do the will of another
        rather than thine own.
     Choose always to have less rather than more.
     Seek always the lowest place, and to be inferior
        to everyone.
     Wish always and pray that the will of God may be
        wholly fulfilled in thee.'


"I liked them the more, because it was just like her last reading with
us, and like that letter. Well, then I wondered as I lay on the grass
at Groveswood, whether she would have thought it best for me to be
reinstated, and I found out that I should have been rather afraid of
what you might say when she had talked it over with you
So you took her for your
counsellor, my boy. That was the way to find out what was right
Well, there was something in the place and, in watching poor Lake's
windows, that made me not able to dwell so much on getting on, and
having prizes and scholarships. I thought that caring for those had been
driven out of me, and you know I never felt as if it were my right when
I was made dux; but now I find it is all come back. It does not do
for me to be first; I have been what she called elated, and been more
peremptory than need with the lower boys, and gone on in my old way with
Richard, and so I suppose this disgrace has come to punish me. I wish
it were not disgrace, because of our name at school, and because it
will vex Harry so much; but since it is come, considering all things,
I suppose I ought not to struggle to justify myself at other people's
expense
I can't say anything against it,
Norman, but I am sorry, and one thing more you should consider. If Dr.
Hoxton should view this absurd business in the way he seems to do, it
will stand in your way for ever in testimonials, if you try for anything
else
Do you think it will interfere with my having a Confirmation ticket
Why no, I should not think -- such a boyish escapade could be no reason
for refusing you one
Very well then, it had better rest. If there should be any difficulty
about my being confirmed, of course we will explain it
I wish every one showed themselves as well prepared
Well, Norman, I give up the
scholarship. Poor Mrs. Anderson wants it more than we do, and if the boy
is a shabby fellow the more he wants a decent education. But what do
you say to this? I make Hoxton do you full justice, and reinstate you
in your proper place, and then I take you away at once -- send you to a
tutor -- anything, till the end of the long vacation
Thank you
I don't know, papa. I am very
much obliged to you, but I think it would hardly do. You would be
uncomfortable at seeming to quarrel with Dr. Hoxton, and it would be
hardly creditable for me to go off in anger
You are right, I believe
You judge wisely, though I
should not have ventured to ask it of you. But what is to become of the
discipline of the school? Is that all to go to the dogs
I could not do anything with them if I were restored in this way; they
would be more set against me. It is bad enough as it is, but, even for
my own peace, I believe it is better to leave it alone. All my comfort
in school is over, I know
It is a most untoward business
I am very sorry your
schooldays should be clouded -- but it can't be helped, and you will work
yourself into a character again. You are full young, and can stay for
the next Randall
I really do think it is quite wrong of you to give up your
chance of doing good, and leave him in his evil ways
Has he told you,
poor fellow
Yes
Was there ever such a shame
That is just what I say
I cannot see why the
Andersons are to have a triumph over all of us
I used to think Harvey the best of the two
Now I think
he is a great deal the worst. Taking advantage of such a mistake as
this! How will he ever look Norman in the face
Really
I see no use in aggravating ourselves by
talking of the Andersons
I can't think how papa can consent
I am sure, if I
were in his place, I should not
Papa is so much pleased with dear Norman's behaviour that it quite
makes up for all the disappointment
Besides, he is
very much obliged to him in one way; he would not have liked to have
to battle the matter with Dr. Hoxton. He spoke of Norman's great good
judgment
Yes, Norman can persuade papa to anything
Yes, I wish papa had not yielded
It would have been just
as noble in dear Norman, and we should not have the apparent disgrace
Perhaps it is best as it is, after all
Why, how do you mean
I think very likely things might have come out. Now don't look
furious, Ethel. Indeed, I can't help it, but really I don't think it
is explicable why Norman should wish to hush it up, unless there were
something behind
Flora
If you are unfortunate enough to have such suspicions
I think it would be better to be silent
As if you did not know Norman
Well
I don't wish to think so. You know I did not hear
Norman himself, and when papa gives his vehement accounts of things, it
always puzzles us of the cooler-minded sort
It is as great a shame as ever I heard
Who would you trust, if not your own father and brother
Yes, yes
If there is such a thing as an excess of generosity, it is
sure to be among ourselves. I only know it does not suit me. It will
make us all uncomfortable whenever we meet the Andersons or Mr. Wilmot,
or any one else, and as to such tenderness to Harvey Anderson, I think
it is thrown away
Thrown away on the object, perhaps
but not in
Norman
To be sure
Better be than seem! Oh, dear! I am
sorry I was vexed with dear old June when he told me. I had rather have
him now than if he had gained everything, and every one was praising
him -- that I had! Harvey Anderson is welcome to be dux and Randall
scholar for what I care, while Norman is -- while he is, just what we
thought of the last time we read that Gospel -- you know, Margaret
He is -- that he is
and, indeed, it is most beautiful
to see how what has happened has brought him at once to what she wished,
when, perhaps, otherwise it would have been a work of long time
June 16th.

"Dear Dr. Hoxton,

"My son has appealed to me to confirm his account of himself on Thursday
evening last. I therefore distinctly state that he came in at half-past
nine, with his hands full of plants from the river, and that he then
went out again, by my desire, to look for his little brother.

                              -- Yours very truly,
                                   R. May
The fact was
that old Hoxton did it in a passion,
feeling he must punish somebody, and now, finding there's no uproar
about it, he begins to be sorry. I won't answer this note. I'll stop
after church to-morrow and shake hands, and that will show we don't bear
malice
Such prigs always come to a downfall
I say, June, there's no
end of river cray-fish under that bank
I have a letter from Alan
Tom, why are you running away? Come with me
Tom
do not let this go on.
Why do you serve me in this way? You surely need not turn against me
Tom, Tom! what is the matter? Have they been bullying you again? Look
up, and tell me -- what is it? You know I can stand by you still, if
you'll only let me
Oh! I cannot bear it. It is all my doing
What -- how -- you don't mean this happening to me? It is not your doing,
August -- what fancy is this
Oh, yes, it is
They would not hear me! I tried to tell them how you
told them not, and sent them home. I tried to tell about
Ballhatchet -- but -- but they wouldn't -- they said if it had been Harry,
they would have attended -- but they would not believe me. Oh! if Harry
was but here
I wish he was
but you
see, Tom, if this sets you on always telling truth, I shan't think any
great harm done
Oh, they are all so glad! They say such things! And the
Mays were never in disgrace before. Oh, Norman, Norman
Never mind about that
But you would mind
if you knew what
Anderson junior and Axworthy say! They say it serves you right, and they
were going to send me to old Ballhatchet's to get some of his stuff to
drink confusion to the mouth of June, and all pragmatical meddlers; and
when I said I could not go, they vowed if I did not, I should eat the
corks for them! And Anderson junior called me names, and licked me. Look
there
I could not write well for it these three days, and Hawes gave me
double copies
The cowardly fellows
But you did not
go
No, Anderson senior stopped them. He said he would not have the
Ballhatchet business begin again
That is one comfort
I see he does not dare not to keep
order. But if you'll only stay with me, August, I'll take care they
don't hurt you
Oh, June! June
I am so
very sorry! Oh! to see you put down -- and hear them! And you to lose the
scholarship! Oh, dear! oh, dear! and be in disgrace with them all
But, Tom, do cheer up. It is nothing to be in such distress at. Papa
knows all about it, and while he does, I don't care half so much
Oh, I wish -- I wish
You see, Tom
after all, though it is very kind of you
to be sorry for not being able to get me out of this scrape, the thing
one wants you to be sorry about is your own affair
I wish I had never come to school! I wish Anderson would leave me
alone! It is all his fault! A mean-spirited, skulking, bullying
Hush, hush, Tom, he is bad enough, but now you know what he is, you
can keep clear of him for the future. Now listen. You and I will make
a fresh start, and try if we can't get the Mays to be looked on as they
were when Harry was here. Let us mind the rules, and get into no more
mischief
You'll keep me from Ned Anderson and Axworthy
Yes, that I will. And you'll try and speak the truth, and be
straightforward
I will, I will
Then let us come home
Margaret, see here
A three years' business
But the thing is
done, and this is as good as we can hope
Far better
What pleasure it must have given him! Dear
Harry could not sail under more favourable circumstances
No, I would trust to Ernescliffe as I would to Richard. It is kindly
done, and I will thank him at once. Where does he date from
From Portsmouth. He does not say whether he has seen Harry
I suppose he waited for my answer. Suppose I enclose a note for him to
give to Harry. There will be rapture enough, and it is a pity he should
not have the benefit of it
Miss Rivers
Ah, your congeners are gone out
You must
put up with our sober selves
Is Flora gone far
To Cocksmoor
I am very sorry she has missed you
Shall I be in your way
Papa has several things to
do, and said he would call for me here
Good luck for Margaret
So they are gone to Cocksmoor
How I envy them
You would not if you saw the place
I believe Norman is
very angry with me for letting them go near it
Ah! but they are of real use there
And Miss Meta is obliged to take to envying the black-hole of
Cocksmoor, instead of being content with the eglantine bowers of
Abbotstoke! I commiserate her
If I did any good instead of harm at Abbotstoke
Harm
They went on very well without me
but ever since I have
had the class they have been getting naughtier and noisier every Sunday;
and, last Sunday, the prettiest of all -- the one I liked best, and had
done everything for -- she began to mimic me -- held up her finger, as I
did, and made them all laugh
Well, that is very bad
but I suppose she was a very
little one
No, a quick clever one, who knew much better, about nine years old. She
used to be always at home in the week, dragging about a great baby; and
we managed that her mother should afford to stay at home and send her to
school. It seemed such a pity her cleverness should be wasted
Ah! depend upon it, the tyrant-baby was the best
disciplinarian
Papa means
that if she was inclined to be conceited,
the being teased at home might do her more good than being brought
forward at school
I have done everything wrong, it seems
I thought it must be right and good -- but
it has only done mischief; and now papa says they are an ungrateful set,
and that, if it vexes me, I had better have no more to do with them
It does not vex you so much as that, I hope
Oh, I could not bear that
but it is so different from
what I thought
Ah! you had an Arcadia of good little girls in straw hats, such as I
see in Blanche's little books
all making the young
lady an oracle, and doing wrong -- if they do it at all -- in the simplest
way, just for an example to the others
Dr. May! How can you know so well? But do you really think it is their
fault, or mine
Do you think me a conjurer
Well, but what do you think
What do Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wilmot think
I know Mrs. Wilmot thinks I spoil my class. She spoke to me about
making favourites, and sometimes has seemed surprised at things which
I have done. Last Sunday she told me she thought I had better have a
steadier class, and I know whom she will give me -- the great big, stupid
ones, at the bottom of the first class! I do believe it is only out
of good-nature that she does not tell me not to teach at all. I have a
great mind I will not; I know I do nothing but harm
What shall you say if I tell you I think so too
Oh, Dr. May, you don't really? Now, does he, Miss May? I am sure I only
want to do them good. I don't know what I can have done
Margaret, our adviser general
what do you say? Put
yourself in the place of Mrs. Charles Wilmot, and say, shall Miss Rivers
teach or not
I had rather you would, papa
Not I -- I never kept school
Well, then, I being Mrs. Wilmot, should certainly be mortified if Miss
Rivers deserted me because the children were naughty. I think, I think I
had rather she came and asked me what she had better do
And you would answer 'teach,' for fear of vexing her
I should, and also for the sake of letting her learn to teach
The point where only trial shows one's ignorance
But I don't want to do it for my own sake
I do everything
for my own sake already
For theirs, then
If teaching will not come by
nature, you must serve an apprenticeship, if you mean to be of service
in that line. Perhaps it was the gift that the fairies omitted
But will it do any good to them
I can't tell; but I am sure it would do them harm for you to give it
up, because it is disagreeable
Well
I'll go and talk to Mrs. Wilmot. I
could not bear to give up anything that seems right just now, because of
the Confirmation
He said he should be here at about half-past four
He is
gone to the station to inquire about the trains. Do you know what time
the last comes in
At nine forty-five
That is what we were afraid of. It is for Bellairs, my maid. Her mother
is very ill, and she is afraid she is not properly nursed. It is about
five miles from the Milbury Station, and we thought of letting her go
with a day-ticket to see about her. She could go in the morning, after
I am up; but I don't know what is to be done, for she could not get back
before I dress for dinner
It would be quite impossible
Even going by the
eight o'clock train, and returning by the last, she would only have two
hours to spare -- short enough measure for a sick mother
Papa means to give her whatever she wants for any nurse she may get
Is there no one with her mother now
A son's wife, who, they think, is not kind. Poor Bellairs was so
grateful for being allowed to go home. I wonder if I could dress for
once without her
Do you know old Crabbe
The dear old man at Abbotstoke? Oh, yes, of course
There was a very sad case in his family. The mother was dying of
a lingering illness, when the son met with a bad accident. The only
daughter was a lady's-maid, and could not be spared, though the brother
was half crazy to see her, and there was no one to tend them but a
wretch of a woman, paid by the parish. The poor fellow kept calling for
his sister in his delirium, and, at last, I could not help writing to
the mistress
Did she let her come
As a great favour, she let her set out by the mail train, after
dressing her for a ball, with orders to return in time for her toilette
for an evening party the next day
Oh, I remember
her coming here at five in the
morning, and your taking her home
And when we got to Abbotstoke the brother was dead. That parish nurse
had not attended to my directions, and, I do believe, was the cause of
it. The mother had had a seizure, and was in the most precarious state
Surely she stayed
It was as much as her place was worth
and her wages
were the chief maintenance of the family. So she had to go back to dress
her mistress, while the old woman lay there, wailing after Betsy. She
did give warning then, but, before the month was out, the mother was
dead
I wonder whether Bellairs's mother is so very ill?
I have a great mind to let Susan try to do my hair, and let Bellairs
stay a little longer. I never thought of that
I do not think you will be sorry
Yes, I shall, for if my hair does not look nice, papa will not be
pleased, and there is Aunt Leonora coming. How odd it will be to be
without Bellairs! I will ask Mrs. Larpent
Oh, yes
You must not think we meant to advise; but
papa has seen so many instances of distress, from servants not spared to
their friends in illness, that he feels strongly on the subject
And I really might have been as cruel as that woman
Well,
I hope Mrs. Bellairs may be better, and able to spare her daughter. I
don't know what will become of me without her
I think it will have been a satisfaction in one way
In what way
Don't you remember what you began by complaining of, that you could not
be of use? Now, I fancy this would give you the pleasure of undergoing a
little personal inconvenience for the good of another
Physician's daughters; oh
Flora May
Mary! Mary
How was Margaret
And the baby
my dirk, the ship, our berth
Papa,
do ask Mr. Ernescliffe to come here. I know he could get leave
Mr. Ernescliffe! You used to call him Alan
Yes, but that is all over now. You forget what we do on board. Captain
Gordon himself calls me Mr. May
Ha! There's Ned Anderson coming
Now! Let him see you,
Harry
What matters Ned Anderson to me
Well
and how is Harvey
Oh, very well. We are expecting him home to-morrow
Where has he been
To Oxford, about the Randall
You must not keep him now, Ned
his sister has not seen him
yet
Poor Harry
this is worst of
all! I wish we had written it to him
So do I now, but we always trusted it would come right. Oh! if I were
but a boy to flog that Edward
Hush, Ethel, remember what we resolved
What is this
Come with me
Harry! why, Harry, my boy! We should have prepared you for this
We have left off breaking our hearts about
it. I don't want any comfort now for having gold instead of glitter;
though at first I was as bad as you
Oh, if I had but been there
Ah! so we all said, Norman and all. Your word would have cleared
him -- that is, if you had not been in the thick of the mischief. Ha!
July, should not you have been on the top of the wall
I would have stood by him, at least. Would not I have given Axworthy
and Anderson two such black eyes as they could not have shown in school
for a week? They had better look out
What! An officer in her Majesty's service! Eh, Mr. May
Don't, papa, don't. Oh! I thought it would have been so happy, when I
came home, to see Norman Randall-scholar. Oh! now I don't care for the
ship, nor anything
Come, come, Harry
don't let us make fools of ourselves, or they will
think we are dying for the scholarship
I don't care for the scholarship, but to have June turned down -- and
disgrace
What I care for, Harry, is having June what he is, and that I know
better now
He is! he is -- he is June himself, and no mistake
The prime of the year, is not it
That he is
I have never met one fellow like him
It will be a chance if you ever do
That is better than
scholarships
It should have been both
Norman thinks the disappointment has been very good for him
Perhaps it made him what he is now. All success is no discipline, you
know
Perhaps you will understand better by-and-by, but this I can tell you,
Harry, that the patient bearing of his vexation has done more to renew
Norman's spirits than all his prosperity. See if if has not. I believe
it is harder to every one of us, than to him. To Ethel, especially, it
is a struggle to be in charity with the Andersons
In charity
Papa! you don't want us to like a horrid,
sneaking, mean-spirited pair like those, that have used Norman in that
shameful way
No, certainly not; I only want you to feel no more personal anger
than if it had been Cheviot, or some indifferent person, that had been
injured
I should have hated them all the same
If it is all the same, and it is the treachery you hate, I ask no
more
I can't help it, papa, I can't! If I were to meet those fellows, do
you think I could shake hands with them? If I did not lick Ned all down
Minster Street, he might think himself lucky
Well, Harry, I won't argue any more. I have no right to preach
forbearance. Your brother's example is better worth than my precept.
Shall we go back to Margaret, or have you anything to say to me
There's nothing like home
Was that what you wanted to say
No; but it will be a long time before I come back. They think we shall
have orders for the Pacific
You will come home our real lion
How much you will
have to tell
Yes
but oh! it is very different from coming home every
night, not having any one to tell a thing to
Do you want to say anything now
I don't know. I told you in my letter about the half-sovereign
Ay, never mind that
And there was one night, I am afraid, I did not stand by a little
fellow that they bullied about his prayers. Perhaps he would have gone
on, if I had helped him
Does he sail with you
No, he was at school. If I had told him that he and I would stand by
each other -- but he looked so foolish, and began to cry! I am sorry now
Weak spirits have much to bear
and you stronger
ones, who don't mind being bullied, are meant, I suppose, to help them,
as Norman has been doing by poor little Tommy
It was thinking of Norman -- that made me sorry. I knew there was
something else, but you see I forget when I don't see you and Margaret
every day
You have One always near, my boy
I know, but I cannot always recollect. And there is such a row at night
on board, I cannot think or attend as I ought
Yes, your life, sleeping at home in quiet, has not prepared you for
that trial
But others have kept upright habits under
the same, you know -- and God helps those who are doing their best
I mean to do my best
and if it was not for feeling bad,
I should like it. I do like it
I know you do
and for feeling bad, my Harry,
I fear you must do that by sea, or land, as long as you are in this
world. God be thanked that you grieve over the feeling. But He is ready
to aid, and knows the trial, and you will be brought nearer to Him
before you leave us
Margaret wrote about the Confirmation. Am I old enough
If you wish it, Harry, under these circumstances
I suppose I do
But then, if I've got to forgive the Andersons
We won't talk any more of that
here is poor Mary,
reconnoitring, to know why I am keeping you from her
Pity to leave such good company
but I must go to the Union -- I promised Ward to meet him
there
Oh, let me walk with you
And me
What have we been doing all this time
Chattering, not conversing
Ay! the Cocksmoor board is going to sit
What is a board
Richard, Margaret, and Ethel, when they sit upon Cocksmoor
But Margaret never does sit on Cocksmoor, papa
Only allegorically, Blanche
But I don't understand what is a board
Mr. May in his ship
What is it really
Something wooden headed
A board is all wooden, not only its head
Exactly so, especially at Stoneborough
It is what papa is when he comes out of the council-room
Or what every one is while the girls are rigging themselves
Ha! here's Polly -- now we only want Flora
And my stethoscope! Has any one seen my stethoscope
Ah! now my goods will have a chance
I have my best right hand, and Margaret will
be saved endless sufferings
Papa
Ay! poor dear! don't I see what she undergoes, when nobody will
remember that useful proverb, 'A place for everything, and everything in
its place.' I believe one use of her brains is to make an inventory of
all the things left about the drawing-room; but, beyond it, it is past
her power
Yes
I do the best I can, but, when
nobody ever puts anything into its place, what can I do, single-handed?
So no one ever goes anywhere without first turning the house upside down
for their property; and Aubrey, and now even baby, are always carrying
whatever they can lay hands on into the nursery. I can't bear it; and
the worst of it is that
papa and Ethel have neither of them
the least shame about it
No, no, Flora, that is not fair
I have shame
And you don't leave things trainants as you used
That is
what I meant
I wish I did not
I was thinking whether I had better not
make myself pay a forfeit. Suppose you keep a book for me, Margaret,
and make a mark against me at everything I leave about, and if I pay
a farthing for each, it will be so much away from Cocksmoor, so I must
cure myself
And what shall become of the forfeits
Oh, they won't be enough to be worth having, I hope
Give them to the Ladies' Committee
Oh,
Ritchie! they are worse than ever. We are so glad that Flora is going to
join it, and see whether she can do any good
We
Ah! I know you aren't, but papa said she might -- and you know she has so
much tact and management
As Norman says
I cannot like the
notion of Flora going and squabbling with Mrs. Ledwich and Louisa
Anderson
What do you think, Ritchie
Is it not too bad that they
should have it all their own way, and spoil the whole female population?
Why, the last thing they did was to leave off reading the Prayer-book
prayers morning and evening! And it is much expected that next they will
attack all learning by heart
It is too bad
but Flora can hardly hinder them
It will be one voice
but oh! if I could only say half
what I have in my mind, they must see the error. Why, these, these -- what
they call formal -- these the ties -- links on to the Church -- on to what is
good -- if they don't learn them soundly -- rammed down hard -- you know what
I mean -- so that they can't remember the first -- remember when they did
not know them -- they will never get to learn -- know -- understand when they
can understand
My dear Ethel, don't frown so horribly, or it will spoil your
eloquence
I don't understand either
Not understand when
they can understand? What do you mean
Why, Ritchie, don't you see? If they don't learn them -- hard, firm, by
rote when they can't -- they won't understand when they can
If they don't learn when they can't, they won't understand when they
can
If they don't learn them by rote when they have strong memories. Yes,
that's it
they will not know them well enough to
understand them when they are old enough
Who won't learn and understand what
Oh, Ritchie, Ritchie! Why the children -- the Psalms -- the Gospels -- the
things. They ought to know them, love them, grow up to them, before they
know the meaning, or they won't care. Memory, association, affection,
all those come when one is younger than comprehension
Younger than one's own comprehension
Richard, you are grown more tiresome than ever. Are you laughing at
me
Indeed, I beg your pardon -- I did not mean it
I am very
sorry to be so stupid
My dear Ritchie, it was only my blundering -- never mind
But what did you mean? I want to know, indeed, Ethel
I mean that memory and association come before comprehension, so that
one ought to know all good things -- fa -- with familiarity before one can
understand, because understanding does not make one love. Oh! one does
that before, and, when the first little gleam, little bit of a sparklet
of the meaning does come, then it is so valuable and so delightful
I never heard of a little bit of a sparklet before
but
I think I do see what Ethel means; and it is like what I heard and liked
in a university sermon some Sundays ago, saying that these lessons and
holy words were to be impressed on us here from infancy on earth, that
we might be always unravelling their meaning, and learn it fully at
last -- where we hope to be
The very same thought
but
I am afraid the Ladies' Committee might not enter into it in
plain English, far less in Ethel's language
Now, Margaret! You know I never meant myself. I never can get the right
words for what I mean
And you leave about your faux commencements, as M. Ballompre would call
them, for us to stumble over
But Flora would manage
She has power over people, and
can influence them. Oh, Ritchie, don't persuade papa out of letting her
go
Does Mr. Wilmot wish it
I have not heard him say, but he was very much vexed about the
prayers
Will he stay here for the holidays
No, his father has not been well, and he is gone to take his duty. He
walked with us to Cocksmoor before he went, and we did so wish for you
How have you been getting on
Pretty well, on the whole
but, oh, dear! oh, dear,
Richard, the M'Carthys are gone
Gone, where
Oh, to Wales. I knew nothing of it till they were off. Una and Fergus
were missing, and Jane Taylor told me they were all gone. Oh, it is so
horrid! Una had really come to be so good and so much in earnest. She
behaved so well at school and church, that even Mrs. Ledwich liked
her, and she used to read her Testament half the day, and bring her
Sunday-school lessons to ask me about! Oh! I was so fond of her, and it
really seemed to have done some good with her. And now it is all lost!
Oh, I wish I knew what would become of my poor child
The only hope is that it may not be all lost
With such a woman for a mother
and going to some
heathenish place again! If I could only have seen her first, and begged
her to go to church and say her prayers. If I only knew where she is
gone! but I don't. I did think Una would have come to wish me good-bye
I am very sorry to lose her
Mr. Wilmot says it is bread cast on the waters
he was
very kind in consoling Ethel, who came home quite in despair
Yes, he said it was one of the trials
and that it might
be better for Una as well as for me. And I am trying to care for the
rest still, but I cannot yet as I did for her. There are none of the
eyes that look as if they were eating up one's words before they come,
and that smile of comprehension! Oh, they all are such stupid little
dolts, and so indifferent
Why, Ethel
Fancy last Friday -- Mary and I found only eight there
Do you remember what a broiling day Friday was
Miss Winter and Norman both told me I ought not to let them go, and I
began to think so when they came home. Mary was the colour of a peony
Oh! it would not have signified if the children had been good for
anything, but all their mothers were out at work, and, of those that
did come, hardly one had learned their lessons -- Willy Blake had lost his
spelling-card; Anne Harris kicked Susan Pope, and would not say she was
sorry; Mary Hale would not know M from N, do all our Mary would; and
Jane Taylor, after all the pains I have taken with her, when I asked how
the Israelites crossed the Red Sea, seemed never to have heard of them
I am so glad you are come, Richard
You will put a
little new life into them. They all looked so pleased when we told them
Mr. Richard was coming
I hope we shall get on
I want you to judge whether the Popes are civilised enough to
be dressed for Sunday-school. Oh, and the money! Here is the
account-book
How neatly you have kept it, Ethel
Ah! it was for you, you know. Receipts -- see, aren't you surprised
Four pounds eighteen and eightpence! That is a great deal
The three guineas were Mr. Rivers's fees, you know; then, Margaret
gave us half-a-sovereign, and Mary a shilling, and there was one that
we picked up, tumbling about the house, and papa said we might have, and
the twopence were little Blanche's savings. Oh, Ritchie
That is all I could save this term
Oh, it is famous! Now, I do think I may put another whole sovereign
away into the purse for the church. See, here is what we have paid.
Shoes -- those did bring our money very low, and then I bought a piece of
print which cost sixteen shillings, but it will make plenty of frocks.
So, you see, the balance is actually two pounds nine! That is something.
The nine shillings will go on till we get another fee; for I have two
frocks ready made for the Popes, so the two pounds are a real nest-egg
towards the church
The church
I looked in the paper the other day, and saw that a chapel had been
built for nine hundred pounds
And you have two
Two in eight months, Ritchie, and more will come as we get older. I
have a scheme in my head, but I won't tell you now
Nine hundred! And a church has to be endowed as well as built, you
know, Ethel
Oh! never mind that now. If we can begin and build, some good person
will come and help. I'll run and fetch it, Ritchie. I drew out a sketch
of what I want it to be
What a girl that is
Is not she
And she means all so heartily. Do you know
she has spent nothing on her own pleasures, not a book, not a thing has
she bought this year, except a present for Blanche's birthday, and some
silk to net a purse for Harry
I cannot help being sometimes persuaded that she will succeed
Faith, energy, self-denial, perseverance, they go a great way
And yet when we look at poor dear Ethel, and her queer
ungainly ways, and think of her building a church
That brave spirit is a reproof to us all
Yes
and so is the resolution to mend her little
faults
A very good plan
We can't do better than follow
her example
What you, papa? Oh, what fun
So you think I shall be ruined, Mr. Monkey. How do you know I shall
not be the most orderly of all? A penny for everything left about,
confiscated for the benefit of Cocksmoor, eh
And twopence for pocket-handkerchiefs, if you please
Very well. From Blanche, upwards. Margaret shall have a book, and set
down marks against us -- hold an audit every Saturday night. What say you,
Blanche
Oh, I hope Flora will leave something about
There are your decimals not done yet, Harry
I am going to do my sums now, Flora
What have you been doing, young ladies
Did you call
on Miss Walkingham
Flora and Blanche did
I thought you did not want me to
go, and I had not time. Besides, a London grand young lady -- oh
That is not the way you treat Meta Rivers
Oh, Meta is different! She has never been out
I should have been glad for you to have seen Miss Walkingham
Pretty manners are improving; besides, old Lady Walkingham
begged me to send my daughters
I should not have seen her
for she was not well enough
to let us in
Was it not pushing
There were the Andersons leaving
their card
Those Andersons
I am sick of the very sound of
the name. As sure as my name is Dick May, I'll include it in Margaret's
book of fines
They are always harping on that little trumpery girl's nonsense
Aught, aught, eight, that is eight thousandths, eh, Norman! If
it was about those two fellows, the boys
You would harp only on what affects you
No, I don't; men never do. That is one hundred and twenty-fifth
One man does it to an hundred and twenty-five women
It is rather a female defect, indeed
Defect
Yes
since it is not only irksome to the hearers, but
leads to the breaking of the ninth commandment
Andersons again
One, two, three, four, five, six
forfeits
Papa himself, for he said the name
I think I should like the rule to be made in earnest
What! in order to catch Flora's pence for Cocksmoor
No, but because it is malice. I mean, that is, if there is dislike,
or a grudge in our hearts at them -- talking for ever of nasty little
miserable irritations makes it worse
Then why do you do it
I heard you only on Sunday
declaiming about Fanny Anderson
Ha
There goes Flora
I know
It is the very reason I want the rule to be made,
just to stop us, for I am sure we must often say more than is right
Especially when we come to the pass of declaring that the ninth
commandment cannot be broken in regard to them
Most likely they are saying much the same of us
Or worse
The injured never hates as much as the
injurer
Now papa has said the severest thing of all
Proving the inexpedience of personalities
and in good
time enter the evening post.-- Why! how now, Mr. May, are you gone mad
Hallo! why ho! ha! hurrah
Harry
see what you have done
Hear!
hear! he has a fortune, an estate
Who? Tell us -- don't be so absurd. Who
Who, Mr. Ernescliffe. Here is a letter from Hector. Only listen:

"'Did you know we had an old far-away English cousin, one Mr. Halliday?
I hardly did, though Alan was named after him, and he belonged to my
mother. He was a cross old fellow, and took no notice of us, but within
the last year or two, his nephew, or son, or something, died, and now he
is just dead, and the lawyer wrote to tell Alan he is heir-at-law. Mr.
Ernescliffe of Maplewood! Does it not sound well? It is a beautiful
great place in Shropshire, and Alan and I mean to run off to see it as
soon as he can have any time on shore
Oh, of course he will; he must
He would never give up
now
He is no such nobody, as Louisa Anderson said,
when we
Yes, very. He is a good fellow, and will make a good use of it
And now, papa, does it not make -- You won't say now you are sorry he
came here
Much the same, thank you
What's the row
Miss Walkingham
but you won't understand. She seemed
half wild! Worse than me
How did you like the pretty improving manners
Manners! she had none
She, highly connected! used to the
best society
How do you know what the best society do
The poor thing seemed very shy
I don't know about shyness
She was stifling a laugh all the time, like a rude schoolboy. And I
thought papa said she was pretty
Ay? Did you think her so
A great broad red face -- and so awkward
If one could have seen her face, I think she might have been
nice-looking
She had pretty golden curls, and merry
blue eyes, rather like Harry's
Umph
beauty and manners seemed to me much on a par. This
is one of papa's swans, indeed
I can't believe it was Miss Walkingham at all
It must
have been some boy in disguise
Dear me
Do look whether anything is gone. Where's the silver inkstand
You don't think she could put that into her pocket
I don't know. Do, Harry, see if the umbrellas are safe in the hall. I
wish you would, for now I come to remember, the Walkinghams went at nine
this morning. Miss Winter said that she saw the old lady helped into
the carriage, as she passed
She must have been a spy -- the whole gang will come at night.
I wish Richard was here. Harry, it really is no laughing matter. You had
better give notice to the police
Never mind,
Margaret, I'll take care of you! Here's my dirk. I'll stick all the
robbers
Harry! Harry! Oh, don't
Oh, where is papa? Will nobody ring the bell,
and send George for the police
Police, police! Thieves! Murder! Robbers! Fire! All hands ahoy
Harry, how can you
don't you see that Margaret
is terribly frightened. Can't you say at once that it was you
You
Did you know it, Ethel
I only guessed at this moment
How well you did it,
Harry
Well
I did think her dress very like Margaret's shot
silk. I hope you did not do that any harm
But how did you manage
Where did your bonnet come from
It was a new one of Adams's wife. Mary got it for me. Come in, Polly,
they have found it out. Did you not hear her splitting with laughing
outside the window? I would not let her come in for fear she should
spoil all
And I was just going to give her such a scolding for giggling in the
garden
and to say we had been as bad as Miss Walkingham.
You should not have been so awkward, Harry; you nearly betrayed
yourself
He had nobody to teach him but Mary
Ah! you should have seen me at my ease in Minster Street. No one
suspected me there
In Minster Street. Oh, Harry, you don't really mean it
I do. That was what I did it for. I was resolved to know what the
nameless ones said of the Misses May
Oh, Dr. May was very clever, certainly, very clever. Had I seen the
daughters? I said I was going to call there, and they said
What, oh, what, Harry
They said Flora was thought pretty, but -- and as to Ethel, now, how do
you think you came off, Unready
Tell me. They could not say the same of me, at any rate
Quite the reverse! They called Ethel very odd, poor girl
I don't mind
They may say what they please of me;
besides that, I believe it is all Harry's own invention
Nay, that is a libel on my invention
If I had drawn
on that, could I not have told you something much droller
And was that really all
They said -- let me see -- that all our noses were too long, and, that as
to Flora's being a beauty! when their brothers called her -- so droll
of them -- but Harvey called her a stuck-up duchess. In fact, it was the
fashion to make a great deal of those Mays
I hope they said something of the sailor brother
No; I found if I stayed to hear much more, I should be knocking Ned
down, so I thought it time to take leave before he suspected
Margaret, my dear child, what is the
matter
it was nothing
she was silly
It was Harry's trick
Harry dressed
himself up, and she was frightened
Oh, no -- no -- he did not mean it
don't
Harry, I did not think you could be so cowardly and unfeeling
I did nothing to frighten
any one
Now, Harry, you know how you kept on
and when you saw
she was frightened
I can have no more of this
Go away to my study, sir, and wait
till I come to you. All of you out of the room. Flora, fetch the sal
volatile
Let me tell you
Don't be angry with Harry. It
was
Not now, not now, my dear. Lie quite still
I don't think I can be better till you
have heard the rights of it. He did not mean it
Boys never do mean it
I hoped better things
of Harry
He had no intention
Papa, you are quite mistaken! It was very foolish of
Margaret to be so frightened. He did nothing at all to frighten any
one
Do not interfere
You only encourage him in
his wanton mischief, and no one takes any heed how he torments my poor
Margaret
Papa
tormenting Margaret was the last thing I would do
That is not the way to speak, Harry. What have you been doing
You seem to think you have a licence to play off any impertinent freaks
you please, without consideration for any one
but I tell
you it is not so. As long as you are under my roof, you shall feel my
authority, and you shall spend the rest of the day in your room. I hope
quietness there will bring you to a better mind, but I am disappointed
in you. A boy who can choose such a time, and such subjects, for
insolent, unfeeling, practical jokes, cannot be in a fit state for
Confirmation
Oh, papa! papa
You have been as bad
I say nothing to you, Mary, you
knew no better; but, to see you, Ethel, first encouraging him in his
impertinence, and terrifying Margaret so, that I dare say she may be a
week getting over it, and now defending him, and calling her silly, is
unbearable. I cannot trust one of you
Only listen, papa
I will have no altercation; I must go back to Margaret, since no one
else has the slightest consideration for her
I have a great mind not to go down
What do you mean
I cannot bear to go down while poor Harry is so unjustly used
Hush, Ethel
I cannot hush. Just because Margaret fancies robbers and murderers, and
all sorts of nonsense, as she always did, is poor Harry to be accused of
wantonly terrifying her, and shut up, and cut off from Confirmation? and
just when he is going away, too! It is unkind, and unjust, and
Ethel, you will be sorry
Papa will be sorry
It is
very unfair, that I will say so. It was all nonsense of Margaret's,
but he will always make everything give way to her. And poor Harry
just going to sea! No, Ritchie, I cannot come down; I cannot behave as
usual
You will grieve Margaret much more
I can't help that -- she should not have made such a fuss
Go down, Ethel. The captain may punish any one he pleases, and it is
mutiny in the rest of the crew to take his part
Harry is in the right
It is our duty not to question
our father's judgments. It would be wrong of you to stay up
Wrong
Of course. It would be against the articles of war
But, Ritchie, I say, do tell me whether
it has hurt Margaret
She is better now
but she has a headache, chiefly, I
believe, from distress at having brought this on you. She is very sorry
for her fright
I had not the least intention of frightening the most fearsome little
tender mouse on earth
No, indeed
And at another time it would not have signified
but,
you know, Margaret always was timid, and now, the not being able to
move, and the being out of health, has made her nerves weak, so that she
cannot help it
The fault was in our never heeding her when we were so eager to hear
Harry's story
That was what made the palpitation so bad.
But, now papa knows all, does he not understand about Harry
He was obliged to go out as soon as Margaret was better
and was scarcely come in when I came up
Go down, Ethel
Never mind me. Norman told me that
sort of joke never answered, and I might have minded him
Oh, Harry! you did not deserve to be so punished for it
That is what you are not to say
I ought not to have
played the trick, and -- and just now too -- but I always forget things
I am afraid I was in a passion
It was very wrong in Harry
and particularly unlucky it
should happen with the Andersons
Very thoughtless
no more, even as regarded
Margaret; but thoughtlessness should not have been treated as a crime
I wish we could see him otherwise
He wants
Papa,
I am very sorry! Is Margaret better
Yes, she is; and I understand now, Harry, that her alarm was an
accident. I beg your pardon for thinking for a moment that it was
otherwise
No
of course I could never mean to frighten her;
but I did not leave off the moment I saw she was afraid, because it was
so very ridiculous, and I did not guess it would hurt her
I see, my honest boy. I do not blame you, for you did not know how
much harm a little terror does to a person in her helpless state. But,
indeed, Harry, though you did not deserve such anger as mine was, it is
a serious thing that you should be so much set on fun and frolic as to
forget all considerations, especially at such a time as this. It takes
away from much of my comfort in sending you into the world; and for
higher things -- how can I believe you really impressed and reverent, if
the next minute
I'm not fit! I'm not fit
Indeed, I hardly know whether it is not so
You are
under the usual age, and, though I know you wish to be a good boy, yet
I don't feel sure that these wild spirits do not carry away everything
serious, and whether it is right to bring one so thoughtless to
No, no
You understand, that it is not as punishment
for your trick, if I do not take you to Mr. Ramsden for a ticket, but
that I cannot be certain whether it is right to bring you to such solemn
privileges while you do not seem to me to retain steadily any grave or
deep feelings. Perhaps your mother would have better helped you
What is
to be done
I see nothing for it but for him to ask their pardon
That is right
I'll come with you
Oh, thank you
Say no more -- pray, say no more, Dr. May. We all know how to overlook a
sailor's frolic, and, I am sure, Master Harry's present behaviour; but
you'll take a bit of luncheon
I am sure you will wait one minute. Master Harry
must have a piece of my cake, and allow me to drink to his success
Thank
you
I knew you would be kind enough to rejoice
and
that you would have no -- no feeling about Mr. Norman; for, of course, at
his age, a little matter is nothing, and it must be better for the dear
boy himself to be a little while under a friend like Harvey, than to
have authority while so young
I believe it has done him no harm
for
I am sure no one can be more resolved on
doing right than July, and he has got through school better than I did
Yes
if we don't get into his sort of scrape, it is only
that we are older, not better. I am sure mine are worse, my letting
Aubrey be nearly burned -- my neglects
Papa must be doing right
but for July to be turned
back when we are taken, makes me think of man judging only by outward
appearance
A few outrageous-looking acts of giddiness that are so much grieved
over, may not be half so bad as the hundreds of wandering thoughts that
one forgets, because no one else can see them
And that
I wonder when I shall have another chance
If we should
get to Australia, or New Zealand -- but then, perhaps, there would be no
Confirmation going on, and I might be worse by that time
Oh, you must not let that be
Why, you see, if I can't be good here, with all this going on, what
shall I do among those fellows, away from all
You will have one friend
Mr. Ernescliffe! You are always thinking of him, Margaret; but perhaps
he may not go, and if he should, a lieutenant cannot do much for a
midshipman. No, I thought, when I was reading with my father, that
somehow it might help me to do what it called putting away childish
things -- don't you know? I might be able to be stronger and steadier,
somehow. And then, if -- if -- you know, if I did tumble overboard, or
anything of that sort, there is that about the -- what they will go to
next Sunday, being necessary to salvation
It is generally necessary, Harry
not in
impossible cases
Yes if it had been impossible, but it was not; if I had not been a
mad goose all this time, but when a bit of fun gets hold of me, I can't
think. And if I am too bad for that, I am too bad for -- for -- and I shall
never see mamma again! Margaret, it almost makes me af -- afraid to sail
Harry, don't, don't talk so
Oh, do come to papa, and
let us beg and pray. Take hold of my hand, and Margaret will beg too,
and when he sees how sorry you are, I am sure he will forgive, and let
you be confirmed
No, Mary
It is not that he does not
forgive. You don't understand. It is what is right. And he cannot help
it, or make it right for me, if I am such a horrid wretch that I can't
keep grave thoughts in my head. I might do it again after that, just the
same
You have been grave enough of late
This was enough to make me so
but even at church, since
I came home, I have behaved ill! I kicked Tom, to make him look at old
Levitt asleep, and then I went on, because he did not like it. I know I
am too idle
Dear, dear Harry! you are going with us then
Yes, papa wrote to ask what Mr. Wilmot thought, and he said
Oh, Margaret
I wish we had put Ethel into a veil! There is Meta all white from head
to foot, with such a veil! and Ethel, in her little white cap, looks as
if she might be Lucy Taylor, only not so pretty
Mamma thought the best rule was to take the dress that needs least
attention from ourselves, and will be least noticed
There is Fanny Anderson gone by in the fly with a white veil on
Then I am glad Ethel has not one
Making the
children think me worldly and frivolous
as if Margaret
did not know that I think and feel as much as any reasonable person
Ritchie, do you
know what the bishop's text was? 'No man having put his hand to the
plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God
Yes
I thought it might be a voice to me
besides what it says
to all, about our Christian course. It seems to tell me not to be out
of heart about all those vexations at Cocksmoor. Is it not a sort of
putting our hand to the plough
It was
a beautiful thing to watch
the faces of our own set.
Those four were really like a poem. There was little Meta in her snowy
whiteness, looking like innocence itself, hardly knowing of evil, or
pain, or struggle, as that soft earnest voice made her vow to be ready
for it all, almost as unscathed and unconscious of trial, as when they
made it for her at her baptism; pretty little thing -- may she long be as
happy. And for our own Ethel, she looked as if she was promising on and
on, straight into eternity. I heard her 'I do,' dear child, and it was
in such a tone as if she meant to be ever doing
And for the boys
There was Norman grave and steadfast, as if he knew what he was about,
and was manfully and calmly ready -- he might have been a young knight,
watching his armour
And so he is
And poor Harry
Poor Harry, he was
last of all, he turned his back and looked into the corner of the seat,
till all the voices had spoken, and then turned about in haste, and the
two words came on the end of a sob
You will not keep him away on Sunday
Far be it from me. I know not who should come, if he should not
I could not help it
that little witch
Meta Rivers? Oh! what, papa
It seems that Wednesday is her birthday, and nothing will serve her but
to eat her dinner in the old Roman camp
And are we to go? Oh, which of us
Every one of anything like rational years. Blanche is especially
invited
Meta's weather
Keep a good lockout
they used to bury their tears
in wheelbarrows
It was the right sort
of vehicle, evidently
Well
you know, Norman, I always told you that the
children's pots and pans in the clay ditch were very like Roman
pottery
Posthumus's patty pan
No doubt this was
the bottle filled with the old queen's tears when Cloten was killed
You see it is very small
she could not squeeze out
many
Come now, I do believe you are laughing at it
Now, they really are genuine, and very
curious things, are not they, Flora
ducks and geese
V.V
what can that mean
Five, five, of course
No, no! I have it, Venus Victrix
the ancestral Venus! Ha!
don't you see? there she is on the other side, crowning Claudius
Then there is an E
Something about Aeneas
Why, Ethel, what are you doing with Harry's old medal of the Duke of
Wellington
very immorally
Hallo! what are you doing there
Please, sir, Toby brought it to me
What, is Toby your dog
Yes, sir
Are you so hungry as to eat dog's meat
I have not had nothing before to-day, sir
Why, where do you live? hereabouts
Oh, no, sir; I lived with grandmother up in Cheshire, but she is dead
now, and father is just come home from sea, and he wrote down I was to
be sent to him at Portsmouth, to go to sea with him
How do you live? do you beg your way
No, sir; father sent up a pound in a letter, only Nanny Brooks said I
owed some to her for my victuals, and I have not much of it left, and
bread comes dear, so when Toby brought me this bit of meat I was glad of
it, sir, but I would not have taken it
My aunt in New Zealand
Have you an aunt in New Zealand
I never heard of her
Did not you? Oh! she does write such charming long letters
Is she Dr. May's sister
No; he was an only child. She is dear mamma's sister. I don't remember
her, for she went out when I was a baby, but Richard and Margaret were
so fond of her. They say she used to play with them, and tell them
stories, and sing Scotch songs to them. Margaret says the first sorrow
of her life was Aunt Flora's going away
Did she live with them
Yes; after grandpapa died, she came to live with them, but then Mr.
Arnott came about. I ought not to speak evil of him, for he is my
godfather, but we do wish he had not carried off Aunt Flora! That letter
of hers showed me what a comfort it would be to papa to have her here
Perhaps she will come
No; Uncle Arnott has too much to do. It was a pretty story altogether.
He was an officer at Edinburgh, and fell in love with Aunt Flora, but my
grandfather Mackenzie thought him too poor to marry her, and it was all
broken off, and they tried to think no more of it. But grandpapa died,
and she came to live here, and somehow Mr. Arnott turned up again,
quartered at Whitford, and papa talked over my Uncle Mackenzie, and
helped them -- and Mr. Arnott thought the best way would be to go out to
the colonies. They went when New Zealand was very new, and a very funny
life they had! Once they had their house burned in Heki's rebellion -- and
Aunt Flora saw a Maori walking about in her best Sunday bonnet; but,
in general, everything has gone on very well, and he has a great farm,
besides an office under government
Oh, so he went out as a settler! I was in hopes it was as a
missionary
I fancy Aunt Flora has done a good deal that may be called missionary
work
teaching the Maori women and girls. They call her
mother, and she has quite a doctor's shop for them, and tries hard to
teach them to take proper care of their poor little children when
they are ill; and she cuts out clothes for the whole pah, that is, the
village
And are they Christians
Oh! to be sure they are now! They meet in the pah for prayers every
morning and evening -- they used to have a hoe struck against a bit of
metal for a signal, and when papa heard of it, he gave them a bell, and
they were so delighted. Now there comes a clergyman every fourth Sunday,
and, on the others, Uncle Arnott reads part of the service to the
English near, and the Maori teacher to his people
How nice it must be! Ethel, did you
ever read the 'Faithful Little Girl
Yes; it was one of Margaret's old Sunday books. I often recollected it
before I was allowed to begin Cocksmoor
I'm afraid I am very like Lucilla
What? In wishing to be a boy, that you might be a missionary
Not in being quite so cross at home
I am not cross, because I have no opportunity
No opportunity. Oh, Meta, if people wish to be cross, it is easy enough
to find grounds for it. There is always the moon to cry for
Really and truly
I never do meet with any
reasonable trial of temper, and I am often afraid it cannot be right or
safe to live so entirely at ease, and without contradictions
Well, but
it is the state of life in which you are
placed
Yes; but are we meant never to have vexations
I thought you had them
Margaret told me about your maid.
That would have worried some people, and made them horridly cross
Oh, no rational person
It was so nice to think of her
being with the poor mother, and I was quite interested in managing for
myself; besides, you know, it was just a proof how one learns to be
selfish, that it had never occurred to me that I ought to spare her
And your school children -- you were in some trouble about them
Oh, that is pleasure
I thought you had a class you did not like
I like them now -- they are such steady plodding girls, so much in
earnest, and one, that has been neglected, is so pleased and touched by
kindness. I would not give them up for anything now -- they are just fit
for my capacity
Do you mean that nothing ever goes wrong with you, or that you do not
mind anything -- which
Nothing goes wrong enough with me to give me a handsome excuse for
minding it
Then it must be all your good temper
I don't think so
it is that nothing is ever disagreeable
to me
Stay
if the ill-temper was in you, you would only be the
crosser for being indulged -- at least, so books say. And I am sure myself
that it is not whether things are disagreeable or not, but whether one's
will is with them, that signifies
I don't quite understand
Why -- I have seen the boys do for play, and done myself, what would have
been a horrid hardship if one had been made to do it. I never liked any
lessons as well as those I did without being obliged, and always, when
there is a thing I hate very much in itself, I can get up an interest in
it, by resolving that I will do it well, or fast, or something -- if I can
stick my will to it, it is like a lever, and it is done. Now, I think it
must be the same with you, only your will is more easily set at it than
mine
What makes me uncomfortable is, that I feel as if I never followed
anything but my will
If our will and our duty run the same
that can't be wrong. The better people are, the more they 'love
what He commands,' you know. In heaven they have no will but His
Oh! but Ethel
that is putting it too high.
Won't you understand what I mean? We have learned so much lately about
self-denial, and crossing one's own inclinations, and enduring hardness.
And here I live with two dear kind people, who only try to keep every
little annoyance from my path. I can't wish for a thing without getting
it -- I am waited on all day long, and I feel like one of the women that
are at ease -- one of the careless daughters
I think still papa would say it was your happy contented temper that
made you find no vexation
But that sort of temper is not goodness. I was born with it; I never
did mind anything, not even being punished, they say, unless I knew papa
was grieved, which always did make me unhappy enough. I laughed, and
went to play most saucily, whatever they did to me. If I had striven for
the temper, it would be worth having, but it is my nature. And Ethel
don't you
remember last Sunday? I felt myself so vain and petted a thing! as if I
had no share in the Cup of suffering, and did not deserve to call myself
a member -- it seemed ungrateful
Discipline
would not that show the willingness to have the
part? Taking the right times for refusing oneself some pleasant thing
Would not that be only making up something for oneself
No, the Church orders it. It is in the Prayer-book
I
mean one can do little secret things -- not read storybooks on those days,
or keep some tiresome sort of work for them. It is very trumpery, but it
keeps the remembrance, and it is not so much as if one did not heed
I'll think
If only I felt myself at work, not
to please myself, but to be of use. Ha
I do
believe I see Dr. May coming
Let us run and meet him
You both look
grave, though -- have they deserted you
No, papa, we have been having a talk
May I tell him,
Meta? I want to know what he says
Meta is longing to be at work -- she thinks she is of no use
she says she never does anything but please herself
Pleasing oneself is not the same as trying to please oneself
And she thinks it cannot be safe or right
to live that
happy bright life, as if people without care or trouble could not be
living as Christians are meant to live. Is that it, Meta
Yes, I think it is
I seem to be only put here to be made
much of
What did David say, Meta
My Shepherd is the living Lord,
                 Nothing therefore I need;
               In pastures fair, near pleasant streams,
                 He setteth me to feed
Then you think
that I ought to look on this
as 'the pastures fair,' and be thankful. I hope I was not unthankful
Oh, no
It was the wish to bear hardness, and be a good
soldier, was it not
Ah! my dear
the rugged path and dark valley will come in
His own fit time. Depend upon it, the good Shepherd is giving you what
is best for you in the green meadow, and if you lay hold on His rod
and staff in your sunny days
Ethel, they sang that psalm the first Sunday I brought your
mamma home
Don't let any one long for external trial.
The offering of a free heart is the thing. To offer praise is the great
object of all creatures in heaven and earth. If the happier we are, the
more we praise, then all is well
No woman had
been to the summit of Mont Blanc
till one young girl, named
Marie, resolved to have this glory. The guides told her it was madness,
but she persevered. She took the staff, and everything requisite,
and, following a party, began the ascent. She bravely supported every
fatigue, climbed each precipice, was undaunted by the giddy heights she
attained, bravely crossed the fields of snow, supported the bitter cold,
and finally, though suffering severely, arrived at the topmost peak,
looked forth where woman had never looked before, felt her heart swell
at the attainment of her utmost ambition, and the name of Marie was
inscribed as that of the woman who alone has had the glory of standing
on the summit of the Giant of the Alps
Mine shall not be so stupid as Flora's
We have an old
sailor on board the Alcestis -- a giant he might be for his voice -- but he
sailed once in the Glory of the West, and there they had a monkey that
was picked up in Africa, and one day this old fellow found his queer
messmate, as he called him, spying through a glass, just like the
captain. The captain had a glorious collection of old coins, and the
like, dug up in some of the old Greek colonies, and whenever Master
Monkey saw him overhauling them, he would get out a brass button, or
a card or two, and turn 'em over, and chatter at them, and glory over
them, quite knowing
and I dare say
he saw V.V., and Tiberius Caesar, as well as the best of them
Thank you, Mr. Harry
I think we are at no loss for
monkeys here. But I have not the word yet. Who comes next? Ethel
I shall blunder, I forewarn you
but this is mine: There
was a young king who had an old tutor, whom he despised because he was
so strict, so he got rid of him, and took to idle sport. One day, when
he was out hunting in a forest, a white hind came and ran before him,
till she guided him to a castle, and there he found a lady all dressed
in white, with a beamy crown on head, and so nobly beautiful that he
fell in love with her at once, and was only sorry to see another prince
who was come to her palace too. She told them her name was Gloria,
and that she had had many suitors, but the choice did not depend on
herself -- she could only be won by him who deserved her, and for three
years they were to be on their probation, trying for her. So she
dismissed them, only burning to gain her, and telling them to come back
in three years' time. But they had not gone far before they saw another
palace, much finer, all glittering with gold and silver, and their Lady
Gloria came out to meet them, not in her white dress, but in one all
gay and bright with fine colours, and her crown they now saw was of
diamonds. She told them they had only seen her everyday dress and house,
this was her best; and she showed them about the castle, and all the
pictures of her former lovers. There was Alexander, who had been nearer
retaining her than any one, only the fever prevented it; there
was Pyrrhus, always seeking her, but slain by a tile; Julius
Caesar -- Tamerlane -- all the rest, and she hoped that one of these two
would really prove worthy and gain her, by going in the same path as
these great people.

"So our prince went home; his head full of being like Alexander and all
the rest of them, and he sent for his good old tutor to reckon up his
armies, and see whom he could conquer in order to win her. But the old
tutor told him he was under a mistake; the second lady he had seen was a
treacherous cousin of Gloria, who drew away her suitors by her deceits,
and whose real name was Vana Gloria. If he wished to earn the true
Gloria, he must set to work to do his subjects good, and to be virtuous.
And he did; he taught them, and he did justice to them, and he bore it
patiently and kindly when they did not understand. But by-and-by the
other king, who had no good tutor to help him, had got his armies
together, and conquered ever so many people, and drawn off their men to
be soldiers; and now he attacked the good prince, and was so strong that
he gained the victory, though both prince and subjects fought manfully
with heart and hand; but the battle was lost, and the faithful prince
wounded and made prisoner, but bearing it most patiently, till he was
dragged behind the other's triumphal car with all the rest, when the
three years were up, to be presented to Vana Gloria. And so he was
carried into the forest, bleeding and wounded, and his enemy drove the
car over his body, and stretched out his arms to Vana Gloria, and found
her a vain, ugly wretch, who grew frightful as soon as he grasped her.
But the good dying prince saw the beautiful beamy face of his lady -- love
bending over him. 'Oh!' he said, 'vision of my life, hast thou come to
lighten my dying eyes? Never -- never, even in my best days, did I deem
that I could be worthy of thee; the more I strove, the more I knew that
Gloria is for none below -- for me less than all.'

"And then the lady came and lifted him up, and she said, 'Gloria is
given to all who do and suffer truly in a good cause, for faithfulness
is glory, and that is thine
Out of an old French book, the 'Magazin des
enfans
But why did you alter the end
why kill the poor man? He
used to be prosperous, why not
Because I thought
that glory could not properly belong
to any one here, and if he was once conscious of it, it would be all
spoiled. Well, Meta, do you guess
Oh! the word! I had forgotten all about it. I think I know what it must
be, but I should so like another story. May I not have one
Mary, it is you
My story will not be as long as Ethel's
My story is of a humming-bird, a little
creature that loved its master with all its strength, and longed to do
somewhat for him. It was not satisfied with its lot, because it seemed
merely a vain and profitless creature. The nightingale sang praise, and
the woods sounded with the glory of its strains; the fowl was valued
for its flesh, the ostrich for its plume, but what could the little
humming-bird do, save rejoice in the glory of the flood of sunbeams, and
disport itself over the flowers, and glance in the sunny light, as its
bright breastplate flashed from rich purple to dazzling flame-colour,
and its wings supported it, fluttering so fast that the eye could hardly
trace them, as it darted its slender beak into the deep-belled blossoms.
So the little bird grieved, and could not rest, for thinking that it was
useless in this world, that it sought merely its own gratification, and
could do nothing that could conduce to the glory of its master. But
one night a voice spoke to the little bird, 'Why hast thou been placed
here,' it said, 'but at the will of thy master? Was it not that he might
delight himself in thy radiant plumage, and see thy joy in the sunshine?
His gifts are thy buoyant wing, thy beauteous colours, the love of all
around, the sweetness of the honey-drop in the flowers, the shade of the
palm leaf. Esteem them, then, as his; value thine own bliss, while it
lasts, as the token of his care and love; and while thy heart praises
him for them, and thy wings quiver and dance to the tune of that praise,
then, indeed, thy gladness conduces to no vain-glory of thine own, in
beauty, or in graceful flight, but thou art a creature serving -- as best
thou canst to his glory
I know the word
I know why you told the story, Dr. May, but one is not as good as
the humming-birds
And what would that little
humming-bird think of me if she knew me disgraced
But it
is of no use to think of it. I must go through with it, and as I always
am getting vain-glorious, I had better have no opportunity. I did not
declare I renounced vain pomp and glory last week, to begin coveting
them now again
Come in, come in, Norman!
Only hear. Margaret shall tell you herself! Hurrah
Norman! where is he? Dear Norman,
here is good news! Papa, Dr. Hoxton has been here, and he knows all
about it -- and oh! Norman, he is very sorry for the injustice, and you
are dux again
It is only that it is all right
they
have found out the truth
What?-- who?-- you
Yes
I was suspected, but never at home
And is it over now
Yes, yes
all is right, and Harry will not
leave me in disgrace
Oh, Norman, Norman, I am so glad
My boy, I am glad
Quite overcome
and no wonder. He felt it cruelly,
though he bore up gallantly. Well, July
I'll go down to school with him to-morrow, and see him dux again! I'll
have three-times-three
hip! hip! hurrah
What is all this
is every one
gone mad
Well, I am glad, and I hope the Andersons will make an apology. But
where is poor Meta? Quite forgotten
Meta would not wonder if she knew all
Oh, I am so glad -- so glad
Now I have seen true glory
May
senior
Never mind, Ned, we have often licked each other before now, and don't
let us bear a grudge now I am going away. We are Stoneborough fellows
both, you know, after all
Good-bye, I hope you will have plenty of fun
Are those to take with you
Margaret is going to make a cross of them for my Prayerbook
Ay, they will keep it in your mind -- say it all to you, Harry. She
may be nearer to you everywhere, though you are far from us. Don't put
yourself from her
I like that about fighting -- and I
always did like the church being like a ship -- don't you? I only found
that prayer out the day poor little Daisy was christened
poor Harry sailing away
Yes, dear Ethel, yes, but pray be calm; I know papa and Mr. Wilmot
would not put a stop to it if they could possibly help it, but if it is
not proper
Proper! that is as bad as Miss Winter
Ethel, you and I cannot judge of these things -- you must leave them to
our elders
And men always are so fanciful about ladies
Indeed, if you speak in that way, I shall think it is really hurting
you
I did not mean it, dear Margaret
but if you knew what I
feel for poor Cocksmoor, you would not wonder that I cannot bear it
I do not wonder, dearest; but if this trial is sent you, perhaps it is
to train you for better things
Perhaps it is for my fault
Oh, oh, if it be that I am
too unworthy! And it is the only hope; no one will do anything to teach
these poor creatures if I give it up. What shall I do, Margaret
Trust them Ethel,
dear. The decision will be whatever is the will of God. If He thinks fit
to give you the work, it will come; if not, He will give you some other,
and provide for them
If I have been too neglectful of home, too vain of persevering when no
one but Richard would
I cannot see that you have, dearest
but your
own heart must tell you that. And now, only try to be calm and patient.
Getting into these fits of despair is the very thing to make people
decide against you
I will! I will! I will try to be patient
I know to be
wayward and set on it would only hurt. I might only do more harm -- I'll
try. But oh, my poor children
Well, Ethel, he is come
Oh, papa, Mr. Ernes
Is he here
At the Swan. He came last night, and watched for me this morning as
I came out of the hospital. We have been walking over the meadows to
Fordholm
But is he not coming
Yes, poor fellow; but hush, stop, say nothing to the others. I must not
have her agitated till she has had her dinner in peace, and the house is
quiet. You know she cannot run away to her room as you would
Then he is really come for that
But why did he wait so long
He wished to see his way through his affairs, and also wanted to hear
of her from Harry. I am afraid poor July's colours were too bright
And why did he come to the Swan instead of to us
That was his fine, noble feeling. He thought it right to see me first,
that if I thought the decision too trying for Margaret, in her present
state, or if I disapproved of the long engagement, I might spare her all
knowledge of his coming
Oh, papa, you won't
I don't know but that I ought; but yet, the fact is, that I cannot.
With that fine young fellow so generously, fondly attached I cannot find
it in my heart to send him away for four years without seeing her, and
yet, poor things, it might be better for them both. Oh, Ethel, if your
mother were but here
One comfort is
that Margaret has more
composure than I. Do you go to Cocksmoor this afternoon
I wished it
Take them all with you. You may tell them why when you are out. I
must have the house quiet. I shall get Margaret out into the shade, and
prepare her, as best I can, before he comes at three o'clock
Had not
Flora better stay to keep off company
No, no
the fewer the better
You are going to Cocksmoor
It is the right day
Are you coming, Flora
Not to-day, I have to call on Mrs. Hoxton
Never mind Mrs. Hoxton
you had better go to-day, a
fine cool day for a walk
Oh, yes, Flora, you must come
we want you
I have engagements at home
And it really is a trying walk
You must
Come to our room, and I will tell you
why
I do not mean to go to Cocksmoor till something positive is settled. I
cannot have anything to do with that woman
If you would only come upstairs
I have
something to tell you alone
I shall come up in due time. I thought you had outgrown closetings and
foolish secrets
Well, Ethel, what is this grand secret
Oh, Flora! Mr. Ernescliffe is at the Swan! He has been speaking to papa
about Margaret
Proposing for her, do you mean
Yes, he is coming to see her this afternoon, and that is the reason
that papa wants us to be all out of the way
Did papa tell you this
Yes
but only because I was the first person he met; and Norman guessed it
long ago. Do put on your things! I'll tell you all I know when we are
out. Papa is so anxious to have the coast clear
I understand
but I shall not go with you. Do not be
afraid of my interfering with any one. I shall sit here
But papa said you were to go
If he had done me the favour of speaking to me himself
I
should have shown him that it is not right that Margaret should be left
without any one at hand in case she should be overcome. He is of no use
in such cases, only makes things worse. I should not feel justified
in leaving Margaret with no one else, but he is in one of those
hand-over-head moods, when it is not of the least use to say a word to
him
Flora, how can you, when he expressly ordered you
All he meant was, do not be in the way, and I shall not show myself
unless I am needed, when he would be glad enough of me. I am not bound
to obey the very letter, like Blanche or Mary
Well, papa
Well, poor things. She was quite overcome when first I told her -- said
it would be hard on him, and begged me to tell him that he would be much
happier if he thought no more of her
Did Margaret
Oh! could she mean it
She thought she meant it, poor dear, and repeated such things again and
again; but when I asked whether I should send him away without seeing
her, she cried more than ever, and said, 'You are tempting me! It would
be selfishness
Oh, dear! she surely has seen him
I told her that I would be the last person to wish to tempt her to
selfishness, but that I did not think that either could be easy in
settling such a matter through a third person
It would have been very unkind
I wonder she did not
think so
She did at last. I saw it could not be otherwise, and she said, poor
darling, that when he had seen her, he would know the impossibility; but
she was so agitated that I did not know how it could be
Has she
Ay, I told him not to stay too long, and left him under the tulip-tree
with her. I found her much more composed -- he was so gentle and
considerate. Ah! he is the very man! Besides, he has convinced her now
that affection brings him, not mere generosity, as she fancied
Oh, then it is settled
I wish it were! She has owned that if -- if she were in health -- but that
is all, and he is transported with having gained so much! Poor fellow.
So far, I trust, it is better for them to know each other's minds, but
how it is to be
But, papa, you know Sir Matthew Fleet said she was sure to get well;
and in three years' time
Yes, yes, that is the best chance. But it is a dreary lookout for two
young things. That is in wiser hands, however! If only I saw what
was right to do! My miserable carelessness has undone you all
Come, dear Ethel
Oh, Margaret, Margaret
Then you are glad
Glad in one way, dearest, almost too glad, and
grateful
Oh, I am so glad
I thought it was making everybody
unhappy
I don't believe I could be that, now he has come, now I know
There must be doubt and uncertainty
but
I cannot dwell on them just yet. They will settle what is right, I know,
and, happen what may, I have always this to remember
Oh, that is right! Papa will be so relieved! He was afraid it had only
been distress
Poor papa! Yes, I did not command myself at first; I was not sure
whether it was right to see him at all
Oh, Margaret, that was too bad
It did not seem right to encourage any such -- such
to such a poor helpless thing as I am. I did not know what to do, and I
am afraid I behaved like a silly child, and did not think of dear papa's
feelings. But I will try to be good, and leave it all to them
And you are going to be happy
For the present, at least. I cannot help it
Oh, he
is so kind, and so unselfish, and so beautifully gentle -- and to think of
his still caring! But there, dear Ethel, I am not going to cry; do call
papa, or he will think me foolish again. I want him to be quite at ease
about me before he comes
Then he is coming
Yes, at tea-time -- so run, dear Ethel, and tell Jane to get his room
ready
I give
you joy, my dear
You will show it to Alan
Will not you
I cannot
I wish I was more helpful to you, my child
but you will rest on him, and be happy together
while he stays, will you not
Indeed I will, dear papa
But
I see that papa does not believe
it
You promised to abide by it
I do; if you choose so to risk your hopes
But
there can be
no doubt! These words are as certain as language can make them. Why will
you not trust them
I see that papa does not
Despondency and self-reproach made him morbidly anxious. Believe so, my
Margaret! You know he is no surgeon
His education included that line
I believe he has
all but the manual dexterity. However, I would fain have faith in Sir
Matthew
and perhaps I am only swayed by the habit
of thinking that papa must know best
He does in indifferent cases; but it is an old axiom, that a medical
man should not prescribe for his own family; above all, in such a case,
where it is but reasonable to believe an unprejudiced stranger, who
alone is cool enough to be relied on. I absolutely depend on him
Yes
we will try to make papa take pleasure in the
prospect. Perhaps I could do more if I made the attempt
I am sure you could, if you would let me give you more support. If I
were but going to remain with you
Don't let us be discontented
when so much
more has been granted than I dare to hope. Be it as it may, let us be
happy in what we have
It makes you happy
Thank you!
Oh, this is charming! We could set up a regular school! Cherry Elwood is
the very woman! Alan, you have made our fortune! Oh, Margaret, Margaret!
I must go and tell Ritchie and Mary! This is the first real step to our
church and all
May I do it
perhaps I should have asked leave
I was going to thank you
It is the very kindest thing
you could have done by dear Ethel! the greatest comfort to us. She will
be at peace now, when anything hinders her from going to Cocksmoor
I wonder
whether we shall ever be able to help
her more substantially. I cannot do anything hastily, for you know
Maplewood is still in the hands of the executors, and I cannot tell what
claims there may be upon me; but by-and-by, when I return, if I find no
other pressing duty, might not a church at Cocksmoor be a thankoffering
for all I have found here
Oh, Alan, what joy it would be
It is a long way off
and perhaps her force of
perseverance will have prevailed alone
I suppose I must not tell her, even as a vision
It is too uncertain; I do not know the wants of the Maplewood people,
and I must provide for Hector. I would not let these vague dreams
interfere with her resolute work; but, Margaret, what a vision it is! I
can see you laying the first stone on that fine heathy brow
Oh, your godchild should lay the first stone
She shall, and you shall lead her. And there shall be Ethel's sharp
face full of indescribable things as she marshals her children, and
Richard shall be curate, and read in his steady soft tone, and your
father shall look sunny with his boys around him, and you
Oh, Alan
it is,
indeed, a long way off
I shall look to it as the haven where I would be
Ernescliffe!
Alan! it is past the quarter! You must not stay
Good luck to Cocksmoor
pilow
Dear papa and all, good-bye. We are out of sight of land. Three years,
and keep up a good heart. I shall soon be all right.

                                       "Your H. MAY
It is so lone without the church bells, you see, miss
Our tower had a real fine peal, and my man was one of the
ringers. I seems quite lost without them, and there was Cherry, went
a'most every day with the children
Every day
It was so near
I could get there easy, and I got used
to it when I was at school
Did it not take up a great deal of time
Why, you see, ma'am, it came morning and night, out of working times,
and I can't be stirring much
Then you miss it sadly
Yes, ma'am, it made the day go on well like, and settled a body's mind,
when I fretted for what could not be helped. But I try not to fret after
it now, and Mr. Hazlewood said, if I did my best wherever I was, the
Lord would still join our prayers together
outrageous dullness
Poor Cherry
Yes, ma'am, thank you, it is best
for him. I should not have wished him to grieve for what cannot be
helped
Resignation is the great comfort
Yes, ma'am. I have a great deal to be thankful for. I don't blame no
one, but I do see how some, as are married, seem to get to think more of
this world; and now and then I fancy I can see how it is best for me as
it is
Then, ma'am, there has been such goodness! I did vex at being a poor
helpless thing, nothing but a burden on father; and when we had to go
from home, and Mr. and Mrs. Hazlewood and all, I can't tell you how bad
it was, ma'am
Then you are comforted now
Yes, ma'am
It seems as if He had given me
something to do, and there are you, and Mr. Richard, and Miss Ethel,
to help. I should like, please God, to be of some good to those poor
children
I am sure you will, Cherry; I wish I could do as much
Ah! ma'am, you
Please, miss, I was thinking how Mr. Hazlewood said that God fits our
place to us, and us to our place
Thank you, Cherry, you are leaving me something to remember
The pearl of great price
if we hold that,
the rest will soon matter but little. It remaineth that both they that
have wives, be as they that have none, and they that weep, as though
they wept not, and they that rejoice, as though they rejoiced not! If
ever Alan and I have a home together upon earth, may all too confident
joy be tempered by the fears that we have begun with! I hope this
probation may make me less likely to be taken up with the cares and
pleasures of his position than I might have been last year. He is one
who can best help the mind to go truly upward. But oh, that voyage
What a bore
What's the matter now
Here has this old fellow asked me to dinner again
A fine pass we are come to
I should like to know what I should have said at your age if the
head-master had asked me to dinner
Papa is not so very fond of dining at Dr. Hoxton's
A
whipper-snapper schoolboy, who might be thankful to dine anywhere
It is very ungrateful of Norman
I cannot see what he
finds to complain of
You would know
if, instead of playing those perpetual
tunes of yours, you had to sit it out in that perfumy drawing-room,
without anything to listen to worth hearing. If I have looked over that
court album once, I have a dozen times, and there is not another book in
the place
I am glad there is not
I am quite ashamed to see you for
ever turning over those old pictures. You cannot guess how stupid you
look. I wonder Mrs. Hoxton likes to have you
I wish she would not, then. It is only to escort you
Nonsense, Norman, you know better
You know it is for
your own sake, and to make up for their injustice, that he invites you,
or Flora either
Hush, Ethel! he gives himself quite airs enough already
Papa
I am glad to hear they do
leave him to himself in a corner. A very good thing too! Where else
should a great gawky schoolboy be
Safe at home, where I wish he would let me be
Papa, I wish
Eh! Miss Ethel's bristles up
How could you, papa
How could I what, Miss Etheldred
Plague Norman
Accuse him of airs
I hate to see young fellows above taking an honour from their elders
Now, papa, papa, you know it is no such thing. Dr. Hoxton's parties are
very dull -- you know they are, and it is not fair on Norman. If he
was set up and delighted at going so often, then you would call him
conceited
Conceit has a good many lurking-places
It is harder to
go and be overlooked, than to stay at home
Now, papa, you are not to call Norman conceited
You
don't believe that he is any such thing
Why, not exactly
The boy has missed it
marvellously; but, you see, he has everything that subtle imp would wish
to feed upon, and it is no harm to give him a lick with the rough side
of the tongue, as your canny Scots grandfather used to say
Ah! if you knew, papa
If I knew
No, no, I must not tell
What, a secret, is there
I wish it was not; I should like to tell you very much, but then, you
see, it is Norman's, and you are to be surprised
Your surprise is likely to be very much like Blanche's birthday
presents, a stage aside
No, I am going to keep it to myself
Well, ma'am, I have found out your
mystery
About Norman? Oh, papa! Did he tell you
When I came home from the hospital last night, at an hour when all
respectable characters, except doctors and police, should be in their
warm beds, I beheld a light in Norman's window, so methought I would see
what Gravity was doing out of his bed at midnight
And you found him at his Greek
So that was the meaning of his looking so lank and careworn, just as he
did last year, and he the prince of the school! I could have found it in
my heart to fling the books at his head
But you consent, don't you, to his going up for the scholarship
I consent to anything, as long as he keeps within due bounds, and does
not work himself to death. I am glad of knowing it, for now I can put a
moderate check upon it
And did he tell you all about it
He told me he felt as if he owed it to us to gain something for
himself, since I had given up the Randall to gratify him -- a pretty sort
of gratification
Yes, and he will be glad to get away from school. He says he knows it
is bad for him -- as it is uncomfortable to be singled out in the way Dr.
Hoxton does now. You know
it is not ingratitude or
elation, but it is, somehow, not nice to be treated as he is, set apart
from the rest
True; Dr. Hoxton never had taste or judgment. If Norman were not a
lusus naturae
his head would
have been turned long ago. And he wants companions too -- he has been
forced out of boyhood too soon, poor fellow -- and Harry gone too. He
does not get anything like real relaxation, and he will be better among
youths than boys. Stoneborough will never be what it was in my time
I never thought to see the poor old place
come to this; but there -- when all the better class send their sons to
the great public schools, and leave nothing but riff-raff here, one is
forced, for a boy's own sake, to do the same
Oh, I am so glad! Then you have consented to the rest of Norman's
scheme, and will not keep poor little Tom at school here without him
By what he tells me it would be downright ruin to the boy. I little
thought to have to take a son of mine away from Stoneborough; but Norman
is the best judge, and he is the only person who seems to have made
any impression on Tom, so I shall let it be. In fact
I don't know what I could refuse old June
That's right
That is so nice! Then, if Norman gets the
scholarship, Tom is to go to Mr. Wilmot first, and then to Eton
If Norman gains the scholarship, but that is an if
Oh, papa, you cannot doubt of that
I cannot tell, Ethel. He is facile princeps here in his own world, but
we do not know how it may be when he is measured with public schoolmen,
who have had more first-rate tutorship than poor old Hoxton's
Ah! he says so, but I thought that was all his humility
Better he should be prepared. If he had had all those advantages -- but
it may be as well after all. I always had a hankering to have sent him
to Eton, but your dear mother used to say it was not fair on the others.
And now, to see him striving in order to give the advantage of it to his
little brother! I only hope Master Thomas is worthy of it -- but it is a
boy I can't understand
Nor I
he never seems to say anything he can help, and
goes after Norman without talking to any one else
I give him up to Norman's management
He says the
boy is very clever, but I have not seen it; and, as to more serious
matters -- However, I must take it on Norman's word that he is wishing to
learn truth. We made an utter mistake about him; I don't know who is to
blame for it
Have you told Margaret about Norman's plan
No; he desired me to say nothing. Indeed, I should not like Tom's
leaving school to be talked of beforehand
Norman said he did not want Flora to hear, because she is so much with
the Hoxton's, and he said they would all watch him
Ay, ay, and we must keep his secret. What a boy it is! But it is not
safe to say conceited things. We shall have a fall yet, Ethel. Not
seventeen, remember, and brought up at a mere grammar-school
But we shall still have the spirit that made him try
and
that is the thing
And, to tell the truth
for my own part,
I don't care a rush for it
Papa was so very kind
And you see he quite approves of the scheme for Tom, except for
thinking it disrespect to Bishop Whichcote. He said he only hoped Tom
was worthy of it
Tom
Take my word for it, Ethel, Tom will surprise you
all. He will beat us all to nothing, I know
If only he can be cured of
He will
when once he has outgrown his frights, and that
he may do at Mr. Wilmot's, apart from those fellows. When I go up for
this scholarship, you must look after his lessons, and see if you are
not surprised at his construing
When you go. It will be in a month
He has told no one, I hope
No; but I hardly think he will bear not telling Margaret
Well -- I hate a thing being out of one's own keeping. I should not so
much dislike Margaret's knowing, but I won't have Flora know -- mind that,
Ethel
I only hope Flora will not be vexed. But oh, dear! how nice it will be
when you have it, telling Meta Rivers, and all
And this is a fine way of getting it, standing talking here. Not that I
shall -- you little know what public schools can do! But that is no reason
against trying
Good-night, then. Only one thing more. You mean that, till further
orders, Margaret should not know
Of course
She won't take any of Flora's
silly affronts, and, what is more, she would not care half so much as
before Alan Ernescliffe came
Oh, Norman, Norman! I'm sure
Why, it is what they always say. Everybody can't be first, and
Ernescliffe has the biggest half of her, I can see
I am sure I did not
Why, of course, it always comes of people having lovers
Then I am sure I won't
You may laugh, Norman, but I will never let papa or any of you be
second to any one
Nobody asked you, sir, she said
I know
I am very ugly, and
very awkward, but I don't care. There never can be anybody in all the
world that I shall like half as well as papa, and I am glad no one is
ever likely to make me care less for him and Cocksmoor
Stay till you are tried
Yah! That's the face I
shall make at them
How excited and anxious Norman looks
I hope there is nothing
amiss. He has looked thin and worn for some time, and yet his work at
school is very easy to him
I wish there maybe nothing wrong there again
There!
there's the front door banging! He is off! Ethel
What did Norman want
Only to know whether papa had left a note for Dr. Hoxton
That was not all
Now don't be absurd, Ethel -- I hate
mysteries
Last time I had a secret you would not believe it
Come
why cannot you tell us at once what is going
on
Because I was desired not
You will hear it soon enough
Let her alone, Flora
I see there is nothing wrong
If she is desired to be silent, there is nothing to be said
Absurd
I cannot imagine why Ethel is always making
mysteries
She cannot help other people having confidence in her
She need not be so important, then
always having private
conferences with papa! I do not think it is at all fair on the rest
Ethel is a very superior person
And
if papa does find her his best companion and friend
we ought to be glad of it
I do not call it just
I do not think it can be helped
the best must be
preferred.

"As to that, Ethel is often very ridiculous and silly
She is improving every day; and you know dear mamma always thought her
the finest character amongst us
Then you are ready to be left out, and have your third sister always
put before you
No, Flora, that is not the case. Neither she nor papa would ever be
unfair; but, as she would say herself, what they can't help, they can't
help; and, as she grows older, she must surpass me more and more
And you like it
I like it -- when -- when I think of papa, and of his dear, noble Ethel. I
do like it, when I am not selfish
Only, Flora
pray do not say one word of this, on any
account, to Ethel. She is so happy with papa, and I would not for
anything have her think I feel neglected, or had any jealousy
Ah
you can give up sweetly, but you have Alan to fall
back upon. Now I, who certainly have the best right, and a great deal
more practical sense
You have them
Yes
Norman Walter, son of Richard and Margaret May, High Street, Doctor of
Medicine, December 21st, 18 --. Thomas Ramsden
What is that for, Norman
Ha
this is capital! The old doctor seems not to know
how to say enough for you. Have you read it
No, he only told me he had said something in my favour, and wished me
all success
Success
Oh, Norman, you are not going to sea too
No, no
he is going to be married.
I heard nurse wish her brother success when he was going to marry the
washerwoman with a red face
No
people never are married till they are twenty
But I tell you
people always write like this, in
a great book in church, when they are married. I know, for we always go
into church with Lucy and nurse when there is a wedding
Well, Norman, I wish you success with the bride you are to court
But is it really
Is it really
Oh, dear! is Norman going to be
married? I wish it was to be Meta Rivers, for then I could always ride
her dear little white pony
Tell them
Now then
I shall fail! I know I shall
I wish I had never
thought of it
What? did Dr. Hoxton think you not likely to succeed
Oh! he said I was certain, but what is that? We Stoneborough men only
compare ourselves with each other. I shall break down to a certainty,
and my father will be disappointed
You will do your best
I don't know that. My best will all go away when it comes to the
point
Surely not. It did not go away last time you were examined, and why
should it now
I tell you, Ethel, you know nothing about it. I have not got up half
what I meant to have done. Here, do take this book -- try me whether I
know this properly
This is
not right, Norman. Where are all your resolutions
I shall never do it. I ought never to have thought of it! I shall never
succeed
What if you do not
What? why, Tom's chance lost -- you will all be mortified
I will take care of Tom
And he will have been foiled
If he is
Are you striving for mere victory's sake, Norman
I thought not
Successful or not, you will have done your utmost for us. You would
not lose one jot of affection or esteem, and Tom shall not suffer. Is it
worth this agony
No, it is foolish
Oh, papa
It is foolish
It is rendering you unmanly. It is wrong
It is wrong, I know
but you don't know what it is
to get into the spirit of the thing
Do you think I do not
I can tell exactly what you
feel now. If I had not been an idle dog, I should have gone through it
all many more times
What shall I do
Put all this out of your mind, sleep quietly, and don't open another
book
I will read you something to calm your tone
Know ye not, that they which run in a race, run all,
but one receiveth the prize? So run that ye may obtain. And every man
that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do
it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible.' And, Norman,
that is not the struggle where the race is not to the swift, nor the
battle to the strong; nor the contest, where the conqueror only wins
vanity and vexation of spirit
Only a patient
Well, old fellow
I have got it
He has got
it
A happy face at least
Indeed
I fancy the men had never believed that I could have a clever
brother. I am glad they have seen what Norman can do
And how has Tom been getting on
Oh, I don't know
He will not have my help
Not let you help him
No. He says he wants no girls
Foolish fellow
I wonder what sort of work he has made
Very funny, I should think
judging by the verses I could
see
Come, August, how have things gone on
Oh! I don't know
What's your place
Thirteenth
How could you not come to read
Girls' work
But Norman, and Richard, and Harry, always come to the reading.
Everybody ought
You here, Tom! What have you hidden yourself here for? What can make
you so savage to Mary
She should not bother me
That is the kindest, most
forgiving little sister I ever did see. What possesses you to treat her
so ill
I wasn't going to hurt her
But why drive her away? Why don't you come to read
Come! there's
something wrong, and you will never be better till it is out. Tell
me -- don't be afraid. Those fellows have been at you again
So they have licked you? Eh? What have they been
doing
They said they would spiflicate me if I told
They shall never do anything to you
I knew it
None of you will ever speak to me again
You! Why, August, man, I have better hopes of you than ever. You are
more really sorry now than ever you were before
I had never been at the Green Man before
You never will again
When you are gone
Tom, you will not stay after me. It is settled that when I go to
Balliol, you leave Stoneborough, and go to Mr. Wilmot as pupil. Those
scamps shall never have you in their clutches again
Eight shillings and tenpence
halfpenny! Norman, if you would only lend it to me, you shall have all
my tin till I have made it up -- sixpence a week, and half-a-crown on New
Year's Day
I am not going to pay Mr. Axworthy's reckoning
You will never be better till you have told my father the
whole
Do you think they will send in the bill to my father
No, indeed! that is the last thing they will do
but I
would not have you come to him only for such a sneaking reason
But the girls would hear it. Oh, if I thought Mary and Margaret would
ever hear it -- Norman, I can't
Papa, can you come and speak to me
at the door
Coming! What now
What, Tom, my
boy, what is it
Come, my dear, let us see what is amiss
There, rest your head! Has it not been
aching all day
I do not think he is ill
but there is something he
thinks I had better tell you
My poor little fellow
I grieve to have exposed you to such usage as this! I little
thought it of Stoneborough fellows
He is very sorry
I see it -- I see it plainly
Tommy, my boy, why should
you tremble when you are with me
He has been in great dread of your being displeased
My boy, do you not know how I forgive you
Oh, papa! I thought you would never
Nay, you need never have thought so, my boy! What have I done that you
should fear me
There!
that's better! Poor child! what he must have suffered! He was not fit
for the place! I had thought him looking ill. Little did I guess the
cause
He says his head has ached ever since Sunday
and I
believe he has hardly eaten or slept properly since
He shall never be under their power again! Thanks to you, Norman. Do
you hear that, Tommy
You are better now, my boy
I thought you would be very angry
Never, while you are sorry for your faults, and own them freely
I'm glad I did
I did not know you
would be so kind
Ah! Tom, I fear it was as much my fault as yours that you did not know
it. But, my dear, there is a pardon that can give you better peace than
mine
I think
I think I could say my prayers
again now, if
If what, my dear
If you would help me, as mamma used
Norman
don't say a word -- it must be done -- Hoxton
must hear of this
It is not your doing. It is no concern of yours
I find my boy ill, broken down,
shattered -- it is the usage of this crew of fellows -- what right have I to
conceal it -- leave other people's sons to be so served
I believe they did so to Tom out of ill-will to me
and
because they thought he had ratted
Hush! don't argue against it
I have
stood a great deal to oblige you, but I cannot stand this. When it is
a matter of corruption, base cruelty -- no, Norman, it is not right -- not
another word
Don't you see
if they act thus, when your back
is turned, what is to happen next half? 'Tis not for Tom's sake, but how
could we justify it to ourselves, to expose other boys to this usage
Yes
I suppose it must be
That is right
I knew you must see
it in that light. I do not mean to abuse your confidence
No, indeed
But you see yourself, that where the welfare of so many is at stake,
it would be wickedness -- yes, wickedness -- to be silent. Could I see
that little fellow prostrated, trembling in my arms, and think of those
scamps inflicting the same on other helpless children -- away from their
homes
I see, I see
it is the
only thing to be done
It would be sharing the guilt to hide it
Very well
What do you wish me to do?
You see, as dux, I know nothing about it. It happened while I was away
True, true
You have learned it as brother, not as
senior boy. Yes, we had better have you out of the matter. It is I who
complain of their usage of my son
Thank you
You have not told me the names of these fellows! No, I had best not
know them
I think it might make a difference
No, no, I will not hear them. It ought to make none. The fact is the
same, be they who they may
Poor Mrs. Anderson, with her pride in her children
I shall never be able to look in her face again! I shall never see that
boy without feeling that I have ruined him
He needed nobody to do that for him
With every disadvantage
unable even to remember
his father! Why could I not be more patient and forbearing
Oh, papa
Perhaps
the shock may be the best thing for him
Right, Margaret
Sometimes such a thing is the first
that shows what a course of evil really is
They are an affectionate family too
and his mother's
grief may have an effect on him
If she does not treat him as an injured hero
besides, I
see no reason for regret. These are but two, and the school is not to be
sacrificed to them
Yes
I believe that Ashe will be able to keep much
better order without Axworthy. It is much better as it is, but Harry
will be very sorry to hear it, and I wish this half was over
I say, how is August
Better, thank you; he will be all right in a day or two
I say, we would not have bullied him so, if he had not been in such a
fright at nothing
I dare say not
I did not mean it all, but that sort of thing makes a fellow go on
If it had only been fair bullying; but to take him to that place -- to
teach him falsehood
Could not you speak to Dr. Hoxton for me
My father has said all he could in your behalf
Good-night
Ship Letters
Who gave you leave to take that
scratched out both his eyes
Miss Flora May
That is better
Poor Ethel! I condole with you
And I wonder at you
especially as Flora and Mrs. Hoxton
say it is all for your sake
Such a
nice occupation for her, poor thing, as if you were Mrs. Hoxton, and had
no resource but fancy-work
You know I am base enough to be so amused
but,
seriously, Ethel dear, I cannot bear to see you so much hurt by it. I
did not know you were really grieved
Grieved! I am ashamed -- sickened
Poor
Cocksmoor! As soon as anything is done there, Flora must needs go
about implying that we have set some grand work in hand, and want only
means
Stop, Ethel; Flora does not boast
No, she does not boast. I wish she did! That would be straightforward
and simple; but she has too good taste for that -- so she does worse -- she
tells a little, and makes that go a long way, as if she were keeping
back a great deal! You don't know how furious it makes me
Ethel
So
she stirs up all Stoneborough to hear
what the Miss Mays are doing at Cocksmoor. So the Ladies' Committee must
needs have their finger in! Much they cared for the place when it was
wild and neglected! But they go to inspect Cherry and her school -- Mrs.
Ledwich and all -- and, back they come, shocked -- no system, no order, the
mistress untrained, the school too small, with no apparatus! They all
run about in despair, as if we had ever asked them to help us. And so
Mrs. Hoxton, who cares for poor children no more than for puppy-dogs,
but who can't live without useless work, and has filled her house as
full of it as it can hold, devises a bazaar -- a field for her trumpery,
and a show-off for all the young ladies; and Flora treats it like an
inspiration! Off they trot, to the old Assembly Rooms. I trusted that
the smallness of them would have knocked it on the head; but, still
worse, Flora's talking of it makes Mr. Rivers think it our pet scheme;
so, what does he do but offer his park, and so we are to have a
regular fancy fair, and Cocksmoor School will be founded in vanity and
frivolity! But I believe you like it
I am not sure of my own feeling
It has been settled
without our interposition, and I have never been able to talk it over
calmly with you. Papa does not seem to disapprove
No
He will only laugh, and say it will spare him a great
many of Mrs. Hoxton's nervous attacks. He thinks of it nearly as I do,
at the bottom, but I cannot get him to stop it, nor even to say he does
not wish Flora to sell
I did not understand that you really had such strong objections
I thought it was only as a piece of folly, and
And interference with my Cocksmoor
I had better own to
what may be wrong personal feeling at first
I can hardly call it wrong
considering what
Cocksmoor is to you, and what the Ladies' Committee is
Oh, Margaret, if the lawful authority -- if a good clergyman would only
come, how willingly would I work under him! But Mrs. Ledwich and -- it
is like having all the Spaniards and savages spoiling Robinson Crusoe's
desert island
It is not come to that yet
but about the fancy fair.
We all know that the school is very much wanted
Yes, but I hoped to wait in patience and perseverance, and do it at
last
All yourself
Now, Margaret! you know I was glad of Alan's help
I should think so
You need not make a favour of
that
Yes, but, don't you see, that came as almsgiving, in the way which
brings a blessing. We want nothing to make us give money and work to
Cocksmoor. We do all we can already; and I don't want to get a fine bag
or a ridiculous pincushion in exchange
Not you, but
Well, for the rest. If they like to offer their money, well and good,
the better for them; but why must they not give it to Cocksmoor -- but for
that unnatural butterfly of Blanche's, with black pins for horns, that
they will go and sell at an extortionate rate
The price will be given for Cocksmoor's sake
Pooh! Margaret. Do you think it is for Cocksmoor's sake that Lady
Leonora Langdale and her fine daughter come down from London? Would Mrs.
Hoxton spend the time in making frocks for Cocksmoor children that
she does in cutting out paper, and stuffing glass bottles with it? Let
people be honest -- alms, or pleasure, or vanity! let them say which they
mean; but don't make charity the excuse for the others; and, above all,
don't make my poor Cocksmoor the victim of it
This is very severe
Do
you think no charity worth having but what is given on unmixed motives?
Who, then, could give
Margaret -- we see much evil arise in the best-planned institutions; nay,
in what are not human. Don't you think we ought to do our utmost to have
no flaw in the foundation? Schools are not such perfect places that we
can build them without fear, and, if the means are to be raised by a
bargain for amusement -- if they are to come from frivolity instead of
self-denial, I am afraid of them. I do not mean that Cocksmoor has not
been the joy of my life, and of Mary's, but that was not because we did
it for pleasure
No
you found pleasure by the way. But why
did you not say all this to Flora
It is of no use to talk to Flora
she would say it was
high-flown and visionary. Oh! she wants it for the bazaar's own sake,
and that is one reason why I hate it
Now, Ethel
I do believe it was very unfortunate for Flora that the Hoxtons took to
patronising her, because Norman would not be patronised. Ever since
it began, her mind has been full of visitings, and parties, and county
families, and she has left off the home usefulness she used to care
about
But you are old enough for that
It would be hard to
keep Flora at home, now that you can take her place, and do not care for
going out. One of us must be the representative Miss May, you know, and
keep up the civilities; and you may think yourself lucky it is not you
If it was only that, I should not care, but I may as well tell you,
Margaret, for it is a weight to me. It is not the mere pleasure in
gaieties -- Flora cares for them, in themselves, as little as I do -- nor
is it neighbourliness, as a duty to others, for, you may observe, she
always gets off any engagement to the Wards, or any of the town folk, to
whom it would be a gratification to have her -- she either eludes them, or
sends me. The thing is, that she is always trying to be with the great
people, the county set, and I don't think that is the safe way of going
on
You frighten me, Ethel! I cannot say it is not
so, and these are so like the latent faults that dear mamma's letter
spoke of
I wish I had not told you! I
don't always believe it myself, and it is so unkind, and you will make
yourself unhappy too. I ought not to have thought it of her! Think of
her ever-ready kindness and helpfulness; her pretty courteous ways to
the very least; her obligingness and tact
Yes
she is one of the kindest people there is, and
I am sure that she thought the gaining funds for Cocksmoor was the
best thing to be done, that you would be pleased, and a great deal of
pleasant occupation provided for us all
That is the bright side, the surface side
And not an untrue one
Meta will not be vain, and will
work the more happily for Cocksmoor's sake. Mary and Blanche, poor Mrs.
Boulder, and many good ladies who hitherto have not known how to help
Cocksmoor, will do so now with a good will, and though it is not what we
should have chosen, I think we had better take it in good part
You think so
Yes, indeed I do. If you go about with that dismal face and strong
disapproval, it will really seem as if it was the having your dominion
muddled with that you dislike. Besides, it is putting yourself forward
to censure what is not absolutely wrong in itself, and that cannot be
desirable
No
but I cannot help being sorry for Cocksmoor. I
thought patience would prepare the way, and the means be granted in good
time, without hastiness -- only earnestness
You had made a picture for yourself
Yes, we
all make pictures for ourselves, and we are the foremost figures in
them; but they are taken out of our hands, and we see others putting
in rude touches, and spoiling our work, as it seems; but, by-and-by, we
shall see that it is all guided
Then having protested to my utmost against this concern,
you think I ought to be amiable about it
And to let poor Mary enjoy it. She would be so happy, if you would not
bewilder her by your gloomy looks, and keep her to the hemming of your
endless glazed calico bonnet strings
Poor old Mary! I thought that was by her own desire
Only her dutiful allegiance to you; and, as making pincushions is
nearly her greatest delight, it is cruel to make her think it, in some
mysterious way, wrong and displeasing to you
I did not think Mary was in such awe of me.
I'll set her free, then. But, Margaret, do you really think I ought to
give up my time to it
Could you not just let them have a few drawings, or a little bit of
your company work -- just enough for you not to annoy every one, and seem
to be testifying against them? You would not like to vex Meta
It will go hard, if I do not tell Meta my mind. I cannot bear to see
her deluded
I don't think she is
but she does not set her face
against what others wish. As papa says of his dear little humming-bird,
she takes the honey, and leaves the poison
Yes; amid all that enjoyment, she is always choosing the good, and
leaving the evil; always sacrificing something, and then being happy in
the sacrifice
No one would guess it was a sacrifice, it is so joyously done -- least of
all Meta herself
Her coming home from London was exactly a specimen of that
sacrifice -- and no sacrifice
What was that
Did not you hear of it? It was a sort of material turning away from
vanity that made me respect the little rival Daisy, as much as I always
admired her.

"Tell me
When was it
Last spring. You know Mr. Rivers is always ill in London: indeed, papa
says it would be the death of him; but Lady Leonora Langdale thinks it
dreadful that Meta should not go to all the gaieties; and last year,
when Mrs. Larpent was gone, she insisted on her coming to stay with her
for the season. Now Meta thought it wrong to leave her father alone, and
wanted not to have gone at all, but, to my surprise, Margaret advised
her to yield, and go for some short fixed time
Yes
as all her elders thought it right, I did not
think we could advise her to refuse absolutely. Besides, it was a
promise
She declared she would only stay three weeks, and the Langdales were
satisfied, thinking that, once in London, they should keep her. They
little knew Meta, with her pretty ways of pretending that her resolution
is only spoiled-child wilfulness. None of you quite trusted her, did
you, Margaret? Even papa was almost afraid, though he wanted her very
much to be at home; for poor Mr. Rivers was so low and forlorn without
her, though he would not let her know, because Lady Leonora had
persuaded him to think it was all for her good
What did they do with her in London
They did their utmost
They made engagements for her, and
took her to parties and concerts -- those she did enjoy very much and she
had lessons in drawing and music, but whenever she wanted to see any
exhibitions, or do anything, they always said there was time to spare. I
believe it was very charming, and she would have been very glad to stay,
but she never would promise, and she was always thinking of her positive
duty at home. She seemed afterwards to think of her wishes to remain
almost as if they had been a sin; but she said -- dear little Meta -- that
nothing had ever helped her so much as that she used to say to herself,
whenever she was going out, 'I renounce the world.' It came to a crisis
at last, when Lady Leonora wanted her to be presented -- the Drawing-Room
was after the end of her three weeks -- and she held out against it;
though her aunt laughed at her, and treated her as if she was a silly,
shy child. At last, what do you think Meta did? She went to her uncle,
Lord Cosham, and appealed to him to say whether there was the least
necessity for her to go to court
Then she gained the day
He was delighted with that spirited, yet coaxing way of hers, and
admired her determination. He told papa so himself -- for you must know,
when he heard all Meta had to say, he called her a very good girl, and
said he would take her home himself on the Saturday she had fixed, and
spend Sunday at Abbotstoke. Oh! he was perfectly won by her sweet
ways. Was not it lucky? for before this Lady Leonora had written to Mr.
Rivers, and obtained from him a letter, which Meta had the next day,
desiring her to stay for the Drawing-Room. But Meta knew well enough how
it was, and was not to be conquered that way; so she said she must go
home to entertain her uncle, and that if her papa really wished it, she
would return on Monday
Knowing well that Mr. Rivers would be only too glad to keep her
Just so. How happy they both did look, when they came in here on their
way from the station where he had met her! How she danced in, and how
she sparkled with glee
and poor Mr. Rivers was quite
tremulous with the joy of having her back, hardly able to keep from
fondling her every minute, and coming again into the room after they had
taken leave, to tell me that his little girl had preferred her home, and
her poor old father, to all the pleasures in London. Oh, I was so glad
they came! That was a sight that did one good! And then, I fancy Mr.
Rivers is a wee bit afraid of his brother-in-law, for he begged papa
and Flora to come home and dine with them, but Flora was engaged to Mrs.
Hoxton
Ha! Flora
I suppose she would have given the
world to go
I was so sorry
but I had to go instead, and it was
delightful. Papa made great friends with Lord Cosham, while Mr. Rivers
went to sleep after dinner, and I had such a delightful wandering with
Meta, listening to the nightingales, and hearing all about it. I never
knew Meta so well before
And there was no more question of her going back
No, indeed! She said, when her uncle asked in joke, on Monday morning,
whether she had packed up to return with him, Mr. Rivers was quite
nervously alarmed the first moment, lest she should intend it
That little Meta
Her wishes for substantial use have
been pretty well realised
Um
What do you mean
I should call her present
position the perfection of feminine usefulness
So perhaps it is
but though she does it beautifully,
and is very valuable, to be the mistress of a great luxurious house like
that does not seem to me the subject of aspirations like Meta's
Think of the contrast with what she used to be
the pretty, gentle, playful toy that her father brought her up to
be, living a life of mere accomplishments and self-indulgence; kind
certainly, but never so as to endure any disagreeables, or make any
exertion. But as soon as she entered into the true spirit of our
calling, did she not begin to seek to live the sterner life, and train
herself in duty? The quiet way she took always seemed to me the great
beauty of it. She makes duties of her accomplishments by making them
loving obedience to her father
Not that they are not pleasant to her
Certainly
but it gives them the zest, and confidence
that they are right, which one could not have in such things merely for
one's own amusement
Yes
she does more; she told me one day that one reason
she liked sketching was, that looking into nature always made psalms and
hymns sing in her ears, and so with her music and her beautiful copies
from the old Italian devotional pictures. She says our papa taught her
to look at them so as to see more than the mere art and beauty
Think how diligently she measures out her day
getting
up early, to be sure of time for reading her serious books, and working
hard at her tough studies
And what I care for still more
her being bent on
learning plain needlework and doing it for her poor people. She is so
useful amongst the cottagers at Abbotstoke
And a famous little mistress of the house
When the
old housekeeper went away two years ago, she thought she ought to know
something about the government of the house; so she asked me about
it, and proposed to her father that the new one should come to her for
orders, and that she should pay the wages and have the accounts in
her hands. Mr. Rivers thought it was only a freak, but she has gone on
steadily; and I assure you, she has had some difficulties, for she has
come to me about them. Perhaps Ethel does not believe in them
No, I was only thinking how I should hate ordering those fanciful
dinners for Mr. Rivers. I know what you mean, and how she had
difficulties about sending the maids to church, and in dealing with the
cook, who did harm to the other servants, and yet sent up dinners that
he liked, and how puzzled she was to avoid annoying him. Oh! she has got
into a peck of troubles by making herself manager
And had she not been the Meta she is, she would either have fretted, or
thrown it all up, instead of humming briskly through all. She never
was afraid to speak to any one
that is one thing; I
believe every difficulty makes the spirit bound higher, till she springs
over it, and finds it, as she says, only a pleasure
She need not be afraid to speak
for she always does it
well and winningly. I have seen her give a reproof in so firm and kind a
way, and so bright in the instant of forgiveness
Yes
she does those disagreeable things as well as
Flora does in her way
And yet
doing things well does not seem to be a snare to
her
Because
she fulfils more than almost any
one -- the --'Whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God
Do you know
the derivation of Margarita
No further than those two pretty meanings, the pearl and the daisy
It is from the Persian Mervarid, child of light
A fit meaning for one who carries sunshine with her
I feel in better tune for a whole day after her bright eyes have been
smiling on me
You want no one to put you in tune
you, our own
pearl of light
No, call me only an old faded daisy
Not a bit, only our moon, la gran Margarita
I hear the real Daisy coming
Oh, Ethel, you will not mind
just doing this for me
Six years old! It is a comfort that he will soon forget the
whole
Cobwebs to catch Flies
Little Charles
One of our most
distinguished patronesses
Stoneborough crew
That chip hat you plaited
for Daisy, Margaret, you must let us have that. It will be lovely,
trimmed with pink
Do you wish for this
Thank you
so ornamental, especially the original
performance in the corner, which you would perpetrate, in spite of my
best efforts
I shall not be offended if you despise it. I only thought you might
have no more scruple in robbing Granny Hall than in robbing Daisy
Pray, send it. Papa will buy it as your unique performance
No; you shall tell me what I am to do
Does she mean it
Have you converted
her? Well done! Then, Ethel, we will get some pretty batiste, and you
and Mary shall make some of those nice sun-bonnets, which you really do
to perfection
Thank you. That is a more respectable task than I expected. People may
have something worth buying
I mean to study the useful
The Cleveland set will be
sure to deal in frippery, and I have been looking over Mrs. Hoxton's
stores, where I see quite enough for mere decoration. There are two
splendid vases in potichomanie, in an Etruscan pattern, which are coming
for me to finish
Mrs. Taylor, at Cocksmoor, could do that for you
Her two
phials, stuffed with chintz patterns and flour, are quite as original
and tasteful
Silly work
but it makes a fair show
The essence of Vanity Fair
It won't do to be satirical over much
You won't get on
without humouring your neighbours' follies
I don't want to get on
But you want -- or, at least, I want -- Cocksmoor to get on
Well, Flora, I don't mean to say any more about it. I see it
can't be helped, and you all think you intend it for good; so there's an
end of the matter, and I'll do anything for you in reason
Poor old King Ethel
You will see, my dear, your views are very pretty, but very
impracticable, and it is a work-a-day world after all -- even papa would
tell you so. When Cocksmoor school is built, then you may thank me. I do
not look for it before
that Elwood
Miss Ethel was a real lady -- that she was! and that
no real lady would ever come prying into other folk's work and finding
fault with what wasn't no business of theirs
I am sure
it would be hard to
find such a teacher in humility! Cherry bears it so much better than I,
that it is a continual reproof
Thank you
Did they stare
That's one advantage of being blind. No
one can stare me out of countenance
Why were you answering all your questions yourself
Because no one else would
You used such hard words
Indeed! I thought I was very simple
Oh
there were derive, and instruction, and implicate,
and -- oh, so many
Never mind
It is better for
them to be drawn up, and you will soon learn their language. If we only
had Una M'Carthy here
Then you don't like it
It is time to learn not to be fastidious
So, if you
will help me
Norman, I am so glad
Yes
I see now that these things that puff us up, and
seem the whole world to us now, all end in nothing but such as this!
Think of old Mr. Wilmot, once carrying all before him, but deeming all
his powers well bestowed in fifty years' teaching of clowns
Yes
One soul is worth
And these things, about which we are so elated, do not render us so fit
to teach -- as you, Mary, or as Richard
They do
The ten talents were doubled. Strength tells in
power. The more learning, the fitter to teach the simplest thing
You remind me of old Mr. Wilmot saying that the first thing he learned
at his parish was, how little his people knew; the second, how little he
himself knew
think soberly
rational employments
House that Jack
built
the box that Mary made
This one day and it will be over, and we shall be rational again
Here you are
Good girls,
to come early. Where's my little Daisy
Coming in good time
How pretty it all looks
But where's Flora?-- where's my watch-guard
She was here just now
What a genius she
is, Ethel! She worked wonders all yesterday, and let the Miss Hoxtons
think it was all their own doing, and she was out before six this
morning, putting finishing touches
Is this your stall
Yes, but it will not bear a comparison with hers. It has a lady's-maid
look by the side of hers. In fact, Bellairs and my aunt's maid did it
chiefly, for papa was rather ailing yesterday, and I could not be out
much
How is he now
Better; he will walk round by-and-by. I hope it will not be too much
for him
Oh, what beautiful things
Ay, we have been lazy, you see, and so Aunt Leonora brought down all
these smart concerns. It is rather like Howell and James's, isn't it
There she is
George is fixing that branch of
evergreen for her
Flora! I did not know her
Oh, how nice she looks
I don't know
Somewhere among the rest
You may look for it
if you will touch nothing
The guards! the guards
fancy fair
Eighteen-pence
Eh! is not this the best
Oh! please, take that instead
And why
I made this
Is that the reason I must not have it
No, don't tease her
I wonder for what it is reserved
Let us watch her for a minute or two. What an embellishment
children are! Ha! don't you see -- the little maid is fluttering and
reddening -- now! How pretty she looks! Ah! I see! here's the favoured!
Don't you see that fine bronzed lad -- Eton -- one can see at a glance! It
is a little drama. They are pretending to be strangers. He is turning
over the goods with an air, she trying to look equally careless, but
what a pretty carnation it is! Ha! ha! he has come to it -- he has it! Now
the acting is over, and they are having their laugh out! How joyously!
What next! Oh! she begs off from keeping shop -- she darts out to him,
goes off in his hand -- I declare that is the prettiest sight in the whole
fair! I wonder who the little demoiselle can be
Ship letter, sir,
double postage
I counsel
you to persevere in your laudable undertaking
You have no business to ask
And what is Ethel doing
Packing up parcels, papa
Packing parcels! How long will they last tied up
Lasting is the concern of nothing in the fair, papa
Indeed! What was it
Your great picture of Stoneborough
Is that gone? I am sorry you have parted with that, my dear; it was one
of your best
Oh, papa, I can do another. But, I wonder! I put that extortionate
price on it, thinking no one would give it, and so that I should keep it
for you. Who has it, Mary
Norman, there. He would have it, though I told him it was very dear
Oh! it is you
Oh, no, do not think of
exchanging it. I am rejoiced that one should have it who can appreciate
it. It was its falling into the hands of a stranger that I disliked. You
think with me, that it is one of her best drawings
Yes, I do
She did that with
C --, when he was here last year. He taught her very well. Have you that
other here, that you took with him, my dear? The view from the gate, I
mean
No, dear papa. You told me not to sell that
Ah! I remember; that is right. But there are some very pretty copies
from Prout here
If you could
persuade him to go indoors -- this confusion of people is so bad for him,
and I must not come away. I was in hopes of Dr. May, but he is with the
little ones
Those copies are not worth
seeing, but you know, papa, you have the originals in the library
a very good bazaar
It has been a delightful
day, has it not? It was so kind of your brother to take care of papa
Oh, it was delightful
and I took one pound fifteen and
sixpence
I hope it will do great good to Cocksmoor
but, if you
want real help, you know, you must come to us
shamefastness
Well, what are you thinking of
I was thinking, papa, that there is a great deal of trouble taken in
this world for a very little pleasure
The trouble is the pleasure, in most cases, most misanthropical miss
Yes, that is true; but, if so, why cannot it be taken for some good
They meant it to be good
Come, I cannot have you
severe and ungrateful
So I have been telling myself, papa, all along; but, now that the
day has come, and I have seen what jealousies, and competitions, and
vanities, and disappointments it has produced -- not even poor little
Blanche allowed any comfort -- I am almost sick at heart with thinking
Cocksmoor was the excuse
Spectators are more philosophical than actors, Ethel. Others have not
been tying parcels all day
I had rather do that than -- But that is the 'Fox and the Grapes
What I mean is, that the real gladness of life is not
in these great occasions of pleasure, but in the little side delights
that come in the midst of one's work, don't they, papa? Why is it worth
while to go and search for a day's pleasuring
Ethel, my child! I don't like to hear you talk so
It may be too true, but it is not youthful
nor hopeful. It is not as your mother or I felt in our young days, when
a treat was a treat to us, and gladdened our hearts long before and
after. I am afraid you have been too much saddened with loss and care
Oh, no, papa
You know I am your merry Ethel. You know I can be happy enough -- only at
home
The fact is, she is tired out
She is not a beauty or a grace, and she is thoughtful and
quiet, and so she moralises, instead of enjoying, as the world goes by.
I dare say a night's rest will make all the difference in the world
Ah! but there is more to come. That Ladies' Committee at Cocksmoor
They are not there yet, Ethel. Good-night, you tired little cynic
Ethel! what is all this? Mary has found Miss Bracy in floods of tears
in the schoolroom, because she says you told her she was ill-tempered
I am sure you will be quite as much surprised
when you hear that you lacerated her feelings yesterday
I? Why, what did I do
You showed your evident want of confidence in her
I? What can I have done
You met Aubrey and Gertrude in her charge, and you took them away at
once to walk with you
Well
Well, that was it. She saw you had no confidence in her
Ethel, what on earth can you mean? I saw the two children dragging on
her, and I thought she would see nothing that was going on, and would be
glad to be released; and I wanted them to go with me and see Meta's gold
pheasants
That was the offence. She has been breaking her heart all this time,
because she was sure, from your manner, that you were displeased to see
them alone with her -- eating bon-bons, I believe, and therefore took them
away
Daisy is the worse for her bon-bons, I believe, but the overdose of
them rests on my shoulders. I do not know how to believe you, Ethel. Of
course you told her nothing of the kind crossed my mind, poor thing
I told her so, over and over again, as I have done forty times before
but her feelings are always being hurt
Poor thing, poor thing! no doubt it is a trying situation, and she is
sensitive. Surely you are all forbearing with her
I hope we are
but how can we tell what vexes her
And what is this, of your telling her she was ill-tempered
Well, papa
I had often thought I ought to tell her that these
sensitive feelings of hers were nothing but temper; and perhaps -- indeed
I know I do -- I partake of the general fractiousness of the house to-day,
and I did not bear it so patiently as usual. I did say that I thought it
wrong to foster her fancies; for if she looked at them coolly, she would
find they were only a form of pride and temper
It did not come well from you, Ethel
No, I know it did not
but oh! to have these
janglings once a week, and to see no end to them
Once a week
It is really as often, or more often
If any of us
criticise anything the girls have done, if there is a change in any
arrangement, if she thinks herself neglected -- I can't tell you what
little matters suffice; she will catch me, and argue with me, till -- oh,
till we are both half dead, and yet cannot stop ourselves
Why do you argue
If I could only help it
Bad management
You want a
head
Oh, papa, I did not mean to distress you. I would not have told you if
I had remembered -- but I am worried to-day, and off my guard
Ethel, I thought you were the one on whom I could depend for bearing
everything
These were such nonsense
What may seem nonsense to you is not the same to her. You must
be forbearing, Ethel. Remember that dependence is prone to morbid
sensitiveness, especially in those who have a humble estimate of
themselves
It seems to me that touchiness is more pride than humility
You know nothing about it. Among our own kith and kin
we can afford to pass over slights, because we are sure the heart is
right -- we do not know what it is to be among strangers, uncertain of
any claim to their esteem or kindness. Sad! sad
Each trifle seems a token one way or the other!
I am very sorry I grieved the poor thing yesterday. I must go and tell
her so at once
He thinks I have been neglecting, or speaking harshly
to her! For fifty times that I have borne with her maundering, I have,
at last, once told her the truth; and for that I am accused of want of
forbearance! Now he will go and make much of her, and pity her, till she
will think herself an injured heroine, and be worse than ever; and he
will do away with all the good of my advice, and want me to ask her
pardon for it -- but that I never will. It was only the truth, and I will
stick to it
Ethel
you did not tell Miss Bracy she was ill-tempered
No -- not exactly. How could you tell papa I did
She said so. She was crying, and I asked what was the matter, and she
said my sister Ethel said she was ill-tempered
She made a great exaggeration then
I am sure she was very cross all day
Well, that is no business of yours
What now?
Mary, don't look out at the street window
It is Flora -- the Grange carriage
Miss Bracy
I
am concerned that I vexed you by taking the children to walk with me
yesterday. I thought such little brats would be troublesome to any but
their spoiling papa, but they would have been in safer hands with you.
You would not have been as weak as I was, in regard to sugar-plums
oh, no
being sure
You see, you must trust us sometimes, and
overlook it, if we are less considerate than we might be. We have rough,
careless habits with each other, and forget that all are not used to
them
Oh, no, never, they were most kind
We wish to be
but there are little neglects -- or
you think there are. I will not say there are none, for that would be
answering too much for human nature, or that they are fanciful -- for that
would be as little comfort as to tell a patient that the pain is only
nervous
You will let me speak to
you, as to one of my own girls? To them, I should say, use the only true
cure. Don't brood over vexations, small or great, but think of them as
trials that, borne bravely, become blessings
Oh! but Dr. May
nothing in your house could
call for such feelings
I hope we are not very savage
but, indeed, I still
say it is the safest rule. It would be the only one if you were really
among unkind people; and, if you take so much to heart an unlucky
neglect of mine, what would you do if the slight were a true one
You are right; but my feelings were always over-sensitive
Well, we must try to brace them
Will not you believe in our confidence and esteem, and harden
yourself against any outward unintentional piece of incivility
Or at least, try to forgive and forget them. Talking them over only
deepens the sense of them, and discussions do no good to any one. My
daughters are anxious to be your best friends, as I hope you know
Oh! they are most kind
But, you see, I must say this
as
they have no mother to -- to spare all this
I must beg you to be forbearing with them, and not
perplex yourself and them with arguing on what cannot be helped.
They have not the experience that could enable them to finish such a
discussion without unkindness; and it can only waste the spirits, and
raise fresh subjects of regret. I must leave you -- I hear myself called
No! I say-no
Another no, and that will be yes
No! I won't! I don't like you well enough
To see the fate of Cocksmoor
Do you think I cannot manage the Stoneborough folk
Poor Ethel!
I am doing you good against your will! Never mind, here is wherewith to
build the school, and the management will be too happy to fall into
our hands. Do you think every one is as ready as you are, to walk three
miles and back continually
I'll take care of your interests
You look as doleful as if you thought you should be robbed of
Cocksmoor; but that is the last thing that will happen, you will see
It would not be acting fairly to let them build for us, and then for us
to put them out of the management
My dear, they want importance, not action. They will leave the real
power to us of themselves
You like to build Cocksmoor with such instruments
Bricks are made of clay
There, that was said like Norman
himself! On your plan, we might have gone on for forty years, saving
seven shillings a year, and spending six, whenever there was an illness
in the place
You, who used to dislike these people more than even I did
That was when I was an infant, my dear, and did not know how to deal
with them. I will take care -- I will even save Cherry Elwood for you, if
I can. Alan Ernescliffe's ten pounds is a noble weapon
You always mean to manage everything, and then you have no time
I know
I have been using you ill, and
leaving the world on your shoulders, but it was all in your service and
Cocksmoor's; and now we shall begin to be reasonable and useful again
I hope so
Really, Ethel, to comfort you, I think I shall send you with Norman to
dine at Abbotstoke Grange on Wednesday. Mr. Rivers begged us to come; he
is so anxious to make it lively for his son
Thank you, I do not think Mr. George Rivers and I should be likely to
get on together. What a bad style of wit! You heard what Mary said about
him? and Ethel repeated the doubt between hating and detesting.

"Young men never know how to talk to little girls
Mrs. Perkinson's
niece
Ask Mrs. Ledwich
if we should not begin with some steps for getting the land
Just
so, the land is the first consideration. We must at once take steps
for obtaining it
always did things
methodically
I think that consideration had better wait
till we have some more definite view. Had we not better turn to this
land question
Quite true
If I am not mistaken, the land is a copyhold of
Sir Henry Walkinghame, held under the manor of Drydale, which belongs to
M ---- College, and is underlet to Mr. Nicolson
My dear Miss Flora
how am I to write to a
principal? Am I to begin Reverend Sir, or My Lord, or is he Venerable,
like an archdeacon? What is his name, and what am I to say
Why, it is not a correspondence much in my line
Ah! but you are so intimate with Dr. Hoxton, and your brothers at
Oxford! You must know
I'll take advice
Shall I come, and call
before Friday, and tell you the result
Oh, pray! It will be a real favour! Good-morning
There
Cherry is not
going to be turned out just yet
How could you, Flora? Now they will have that man from Whitford, and
you said not a word against it
What was the use of adding to the hubbub? A little opposition would
make them determined on having him. You will see, Ethel, we shall get
the ground on our own terms, and then it will be time to settle about
the mistress. If the harvest holidays were not over, we would try to
send Cherry to a training-school, so as to leave them no excuse
I hate all this management and contrivance. It would be more honest to
speak our minds, and not pretend to agree with them
My dear Ethel! have I spoken a word contrary to my opinion? It is not
fit for me, a girl of twenty, to go disputing and dragooning as you
would have me; but a little savoir faire, a grain of common sense,
thrown in among the babble, always works. Don't you remember how Mrs.
Ward's sister told us that a whole crowd of tottering Chinese ladies
would lean on her, because they felt her firm support, though it was out
of sight
I do not know whether this letter is
intended for Richard, or for me. At any rate, it concerns you most
Reverend Sir
Ah
My poor dear Una
I never saw a more engaging, though droll, wild expression, than that
with which she looked up to me
I found her far better instructed than her appearance had led
me to expect, and more truly impressed with the spirit of what she had
learned than it has often been my lot to find children. She was perfect
in the New Testament history
Ah! that she was not, when she went
away
and was in the habit of constantly attending church, and using
morning and evening prayers
Oh! how I longed, when she went away, to
beg her to keep them up! Dear Una
On my questions, as to how she had
been taught, she always replied, 'Mr. Richard May,' or 'Miss Athel.' You
must excuse me if I have not correctly caught the name from her Irish
pronunciation
I am afraid he thinks my name is Athaliah! But oh!
this dear girl! How I have wished to hear of her
Everything was
answered with 'Mr. Richard,' or 'Miss Athel'; and, if I inquired
further, her face would light up with a beam of gratitude, and she would
run on, as long as I could listen, with instances of their kindness. It
was the same with her mother, a wild, rude specimen of an Irishwoman,
whom I never could bring to church herself, but who ran on loudly with
their praises, usually ending with 'Heavens be their bed,' and saying
that Una had been quite a different girl since the young ladies and
gentleman found her out, and put them parables in her head.

"For my own part, I can testify that, in the seven months that she
attended my school, I never had a serious fault to find with her, but
far more often to admire the earnestness and devout spirit, as well as
the kindness and generosity apparent in all her conduct. Bad living, and
an unwholesome locality, have occasioned a typhus fever among the poor
strangers in this place, and Una was one of the first victims. Her
mother, almost from the first, gave her up, saying she knew she was one
marked for glory; and Una has been lying, day after day, in a sort
of half-delirious state, constantly repeating hymns and psalms, and
generally, apparently very happy, except when one distress occurred
again and again, whether delirious or sensible, namely, that she had
never gone to wish Miss May good-bye, and thank her; and that maybe she
and Mr. Richard thought her ungrateful; and she would sometimes beg, in
her phraseology, to go on her bare knees to Stoneborough, only to see
Miss Athel again.

"Her mother, I should say, told me the girl had been half mad at not
being allowed to go and take leave of Miss May; and she had been sorry
herself, but her husband had come home suddenly from the search for
work, and, having made his arrangements, removed them at once, early the
next morning -- too early to go to the young lady; though, she said, Una
did -- as they passed through Stoneborough -- run down the street before she
was aware, and she found her sobbing, fit to break her heart, before the
house
Oh, why, why was I not up, and at the window! Oh, my Una! to
think of that
When I spoke of writing to let Miss May hear how
it was, the poor girl caught at the idea with the utmost delight. Her
weakness was too great to allow her to utter many words distinctly,
when I asked her what she would have me say, but these were as well as
I could understand:--'The blessing of one, that they have brought peace
unto. Tell them I pray, and will pray, that they may walk in the robe
of glory -- and tell Mr. Richard that I mind what he said to me, of taking
hold on the sure hope. God crown all their crosses unto them, and fulfil
all their desires unto everlasting life.' I feel that I am not rendering
her words with all their fervour and beauty of Irish expression, but I
would that I could fully retain and transmit them, for those who have so
led her must, indeed, be able to feel them precious. I never saw a
more peaceful frame of penitence and joy. She died last night, sleeping
herself away, without more apparent suffering, and will be committed
to the earth on Sunday next, all her fellow-scholars attending; and, I
hope, profiting by the example she has left.

"I have only to add my most earnest congratulations to those whose
labour of love has borne such blessed fruit; and, hoping you will pardon
the liberty, etc
Oh, Ethel, how glad Richard will be
Yes; it is all Richard's doing. So much more good, and wise, and
humble, as he is. No wonder his teaching
It makes me very glad
and yet I don't know
why one cries. Ethel, do you think
that
Una has met dear mamma there
Dear Mary, we cannot tell -- we may think. It
is all one communion, you know
My dear child, I
wish you joy. This will be a pleasant message, to bid poor Ritchie good
speed for his ordination, will it not
That it will, papa
Why, Ethel, have you been crying over it all this time
Many other things, papa. I am so unworthy -- but it was not our
doing -- but the grace
No, but thankful you may be, to have been the means of awakening the
grace
And oh, papa! coming to-day, when I have been
behaving so ill to you, and Miss Bracy, and Flora, and all.

"Have you? I did not know you had behaved ill to me
About Miss Bracy -- I thought wrong things, if I did not say them. To
her, I believe, I said what was true, though it was harsh of me to say
it, and
What? about pride and temper? It was true, and I hope it will do her
good. Cure a piping turkey with a peppercorn sometimes. I have spoken to
her, and told her to pluck up a little spirit; not fancy affronts, and
not to pester you with them. Poor child! you have been sadly victimised
to-day and yesterday. No wonder you were bored past patience, with that
absurd rabble of women
It was all my own selfish, distrustful temper, wanting to have
Cocksmoor taken care of in my own way, and angry at being interfered
with. I see it now -- and here this poor girl, that I thought thrown
away
Ay, Ethel, you will often see the like. The main object may fail or
fall short, but the earnest painstaking will always be blessed some way
or other, and where we thought it most wasted, some fresh green shoot
will spring up, to show it is not we that give the increase. I suppose
you will write to Richard with this
That I shall
Then you may send this with it. Tell him my arm is tired and stiff
to-day, or I would have said more. He must answer the clergyman's
letter
Dear Richard,--

"May all your ministerial works be as blessed as this, your first labour
of love. I give you hearty joy of this strengthening blessing. Mine goes
with it --'Only be strong and of a good courage!'

                    "Your affectionate father,
                             R. May.

"PS.-- Margaret does not gain ground this summer; you must soon come home
and cheer her
Positively
I believe I may in time.
You see there are different ways of acting, as an authority, or as an
equal
The authority can move from without, the equal must from within
Just so. We must circumvent their prejudices, instead of trying to beat
them down
If you only could have the proper catechising restored
Wait; you will see. Let me feel my ground
Or if we could only abdicate into the hands of the rightful power
The rightful power would not be much obliged to you
That is the worst of it
It is sad to hear the sick
people say that Dr. May is more to them than any parson; it shows that
they have so entirely lost the notion of what their clergyman should
be
Dr. May is the man most looked up to in this town
and
that gives weight to us in the committee, but it is all in the using
Yes
You see, we have the prestige of better birth, and better education,
as well as of having the chief property in the town, and of being the
largest subscribers, added to his personal character
so that everything conspires to render us leaders, and our age alone
prevented us from assuming our post sooner
a honeycomb
All gone
You here, Ethel
I am more surprised to find you here
Excitement
one cause is as good as another for
it
Very pretty sport
You should write a poem on it,
Norman
It is an exhausted subject
bubble and trouble are too
obvious a rhyme
Ha! there it goes! It will be over the house! That's right
Whose is it
Blanche's
Hurrah for Blanche! Well done, white Mayflower, there
that is what I meant. See the applause gained by a proud bubble
that flies! Don't we all bow down to it, and waft it up with the whole
force of our lungs, air as it is; and when it fairly goes out of sight,
is there any exhilaration or applause that surpasses ours
The whole world being bent on making painted bubbles fly over the
house
It is a
fair pattern of life and fame
I was thinking
what was the most unalloyed
exultation I remember
Harry's, when you were made dux
Not mine
I believe
I never knew such glorification as when
Aubrey Spencer climbed the poor old market-cross. We all felt ourselves
made illustrious for ever in his person
Nay, papa, when you got that gold medal must have been the grandest
time
I, Blanche? Why, I was excessively
amazed, that is all, not in Norman's way, but I had been doing next to
nothing to the very last, then fell into an agony, and worked like a
horse, thinking myself sure of failure, and that my mother and my uncle
would break their hearts
But when you heard that you had it
Why, then I found I must be a much cleverer fellow than I thought for
but I was ashamed of myself, and of the authorities,
for choosing such an idle dog, and vexed that other plodding lads missed
it, who deserved it more than I
Of course
that is what one always
feels. I had rather blow soap-bubbles
Where was Dr. Spencer
Not competing. He had been ready a year before, and had gained it, or
I should have had no chance. Poor Spencer! what would I not give to see
him, or hear of him
The last was -- how long ago
Six years, when he was setting off, to return from Poonshedagore
I gave him up; his health was broken, and there was
no one to look after him. He was the sort of man to have a nameless
grave, and a name too blessed for fame
She is in Margaret's wardrobe
because Aubrey tied
her hands behind her, and was going to offer her up on the nursery
grate
Oh, Aubrey, that was too cruel
No
she was Iphigenia, going to be sacrificed
Mary unconsciously acted Diana
and bore the victim
away
Pray, was Daisy a willing Clytemnestra
Oh, yes, she liked it
I never could get proper respect paid to dolls
we
deal too much in their natural enemies
Yes
my only doll was like a heraldic lion, couped in all
her parts
Harry and Tom once made a general execution
there was a
doll hanging to every baluster -- the number made up with rag
I can't help feeling for a doll
They used to be like
sisters to me. I feel as if they were wasted on children, that see no
character in them, and only call them Dolly
I agree with you
If there had been no live dolls,
Richard and I should have reared our doll family as judiciously as
tenderly. There are treasures of carpentry still extant, that he made
for them
Oh, I am so glad
If I were to confess -- there is a dear old Rose in the secret
recesses of my wardrobe. I could as soon throw away my sister
Ha
here, little Daisy,
will you give your doll to Meta
My name is Gertrude Margaret May
Well done, little one
Though
shooting is rather a nuisance, especially alone
He comes in at eleven o'clock, poor fellow, quite tired with solitude
and comes to me to be entertained
Indeed
What can you do
What I can
Whatever is not 'a horrid nuisance'
to him
It would be a horrid nuisance to me
if my
brothers wanted me to amuse them all the morning
Your brothers, oh
besides, you have so much more to do. I am only too glad and grateful
when George will come to me at all. You see I have always been too young
to be his companion, or find out what suited him, and now he is so very
kind and good-natured to me
But what becomes of your business
I get time, one way or another. There is the evening, very often, when
I have sung both him and papa to sleep. I had two hours, all to myself,
yesterday night
and I had a
famous reading of Thirlwall's 'Greece
I should think that such evenings were as bad as the mornings
Come, Ethel, don't make me naughty. Large families, like yours, may
have merry, sociable evenings; but, I do assure you, ours are very
pleasant. We are so pleased to have George at home; and we really
hope that he is taking a fancy to the dear Grange. You can't think how
delighted papa is to have him content to stay quietly with us so long. I
must call him to go back now, though, or papa will be kept waiting
He is very amiable and good-natured
Ha! Norman, you are quite won by his invitation to shoot! How he
despised you for refusing -- as much as you despised him
Speak for yourself
You fancy no sensible man likes
shooting, but you are all wrong. Some of our best men are capital
sportsmen. Why, there is Ogilvie -- you know what he is. When I bring him
down here, you will see that there is no sort of sport that he is not
keen after
This poor fellow will never be keen after anything
I
pity him! Existence seems hard work to him
We shall have baby calling him 'the detestable' next
What a famous set down she gave him
She is a thorough lady, and allows no liberties
Ah
it is a proof of what I want to impression you. We
really must leave off calling her Daisy when strangers are there
It is so much nicer
The very reason
fondling names should be kept for our
innermost selves, not spread abroad, and made common. I remember when I
used to be called Peg-top -- and Flora, Flossy -- we were never allowed to
use the names when any visitor was near; and we were asked if we could
not be as fond of each other by our proper names. I think it was felt
that there was a want of reserve in publishing our pet words to other
people
Quite true
baby-names never ought to go beyond home.
It is the fashion to use them now; and, besides the folly, it seems, to
me, an absolute injury to a girl, to let her grow up, with a nickname
attached to her
Ay
I hear men talking of Henny, and Loo, and the
like; and you can't think how glad I have been that my sisters could not
be known by any absurd word
It is a case where self-respect would make others behave properly
True
but if girls won't keep up their own dignity,
their friends' duty is to do it for them. The mischief is in the
intimate friends, who blazon the words to every one
And then they call one formal, for trying to protect the right
name
It is, one-half of it, silliness, and, the other,
affectation of intimacy
Now, I know
why you are so careful to call Meta Miss
Rivers, to all the people here
I should hope so
Why, yes, Mary
I should hope lady-like feelings would
prevent you from calling her Meta before
The Andersons
Margaret was just going to
say it. We only want Harry, to exact the forfeit! Poor dear little
humming-bird! It gives one an oppression on the chest, to think of her
having that great do-nothing brother on her hands all day
Thank you
I shall know where I am not to look when I
want a sister
Ay
when you come yawning to me to find amusement for
you, you will see what I shall do
Stand over me with a stick while I print A B C for Cocksmoor, I
suppose
Well! why not? People are much better doing something than nothing
What, you won't even let me blow bubbles
That is too intellectual, as papa makes it
By the bye,
Norman
it
always was a bubble of mine that you should try for the Newdigate prize.
Ha
you really have begun
I could not help it, when I heard the subject given out for next year.
Our old friend, Decius Mus
Have you finished
By no means, but it brought a world of notions into my head, such as I
could not but set down. Now, Ethel, do oblige me, do write another, as
we used in old times
I had better not
If I throw
myself into it, I shall hate everything else, and my wits will be
woolgathering. I have neither time nor poetry enough
You used to write English verse
I was cured of it
How
I wanted money for Cocksmoor, and after persuading papa, I got leave
to send a ballad about a little girl and a white rose to that school
magazine. I don't think papa liked it, but there were some verses that
touched him, and one had seen worse. It was actually inserted, and I was
in high feather, till, oh, Norman! imagine Richard getting hold of this
unlucky thing, without a notion where it came from! Margaret put it
before him, to see what he would say to it
I am afraid it was not like a young lady's anonymous composition in a
story
By no means. Imagine Ritchie picking my poor metaphors to pieces, and
weighing every sentimental line! And all in his dear old simplicity,
because he wanted to understand it, seeing that Margaret liked it. He
had not the least intention of hurting my feelings, but never was I
so annihilated! I thought he was doing it on purpose, till I saw how
distressed he was when he found it out; and worse than all was, his
saying at the end that he supposed it was very fine, but he could not
understand it
Let me see it
Some time or other; but let me see Decius
Did you give up verses because Richard could not understand them
No; because I had other fish to fry. And I have not given them up
altogether. I do scrabble down things that tease me by running in my
head, when I want to clear my brains, and know what I mean; but I
can't do it without sitting up at night, and that stupefies me before
breakfast. And as to making bubbles of them, Ritchie has cured me of
that
It is a pity
Nonsense, let me see Decius. I know he is splendid
I wish you would have tried, for all my best ideas are stolen from
you
Norman, you must finish it! When will it be given in
Next spring, if at all, but keep the secret, Ethel. I cannot have my
father's hopes raised
I'll tell you of a motto
Do you remember Mrs. Hemans'
mention of a saying of Sir Walter Scott --'Never let me hear that brave
blood has been shed in vain. It sends a roaring voice down through all
time
If
if you won't let me put
'nascitur ridiculus mus
Too obvious
Depend upon it, every undergraduate has
thought of it already
What do you think of me
I have had Mr.
George Rivers here for two hours
Alone! what could bring him here
I told him that every one was out, but he chose to sit down, and seemed
to be waiting
How could you get on
Oh! we asked a few questions, and brought out remarks, with great
difficulty, at long intervals. He asked me if lying here was not a great
nuisance, and, at last, he grew tired of twisting his moustache, and
went away
I trust it was a call to take leave
No, he thinks he shall sell out, for the army is a great nuisance
You seem to have got into his confidence
Yes, he said he wanted to settle down, but living with one's father was
such a nuisance
By the bye
Margaret, it strikes me that this
is a Dumbiedikes' courtship
Of yourself
No, of Flora. You know, she has often met him at the Grange and
other places, and she does contrive to amuse him, and make him almost
animated. I should not think he found her a great nuisance
Poor man! I am sorry for him
Oh! rejection will be very good for him, and give him something to
think of
Flora will never let it come to that
But not one word
about it, Ethel
Well! was it a pleasant party
One moment, if you please, dear
papa
I think you ought to know it
What, my dear
Mr. George Rivers, papa
Ha
So that is what he is at, is
it? But what an opportunity to take
It was in the conservatory
The music was going on, and I don't know that
there could have been
A better opportunity, eh
well, I should have
thought it awkward; was he very much discomposed
I thought
that he had
better come to you
Indeed! so you shifted the ungracious office to me. I am very glad to
spare you, my dear; but it was hard on him to raise his hopes
I thought
that you could not disapprove
Flora
Surely
you do not mean
that you like this man
I did not think that you would be against it
Heaven knows, I would not be against anything for your happiness, my
dear
but have you considered what it would be to spend
your life with a man that has not three ideas! not a resource for
occupying himself -- a regular prey to ennui -- one whom you could never
respect
Come, come
we will
not talk of it any more to-night. It is your first offer, and you are
flattered, but we know

             "'Colours seen by candle-light,
              Will not bear the light of day.'

"There, good-night, Flora, my dear -- we will have a-tete-a-tete in the
study before breakfast, when you have had time to look into your own
mind
Bless you, my dear
child, and help you to come to a right decision
Well, Flora
have you thought
Do you know any cause against it
I know almost nothing of him. I have never heard anything of his
character or conduct. Those would be a subject of inquiry, if you wish
to carry this on
I see you are averse
I would do nothing against your
wishes
My wishes have nothing to do with it
The point
is -- that I must do right, as far as I can, as well as try to secure your
happiness; and I want to be sure that you know what you are about
I know he is not clever
but there may be many solid
qualities without talent
I am the last person to deny it; but where are these solid qualities? I
cannot see the recommendation
I place myself in your hands
Flora, Flora! why will you talk as if I were sacrificing you to some
dislike or prejudice of my own! Don't you think I should only rejoice
to have such a prosperous home offered to you, if only the man were
worthy
If you do not think him so, of course there is an end of it
It is not what I think, in the absence of proof, but what you think,
Flora. What I want you to do is this -- to consider the matter fairly.
Compare him with -- I'll not say with Norman -- but with Richard, Alan, Mr.
Wilmot. Do you think you could rely on him -- come to him for advice
Above all -- do you think
him likely to be a help, or a hindrance, in doing right
I think you underrate him
but, of course, if
you dislike it -- though, I think, you would change your mind if you knew
him better
Well
it is not always the most worthy
I have no dislike to him. Perhaps I may find that you
are right. Since your mind is made up, I will do this: first, we must be
assured of his father's consent, for they may very fairly object, since
what I can give you is a mere nothing to them. Next, I shall find out
what character he bears in his regiment, and watch him well myself; and,
if nothing appear seriously amiss, I will not withhold my consent. But,
Flora, you should still consider whether he shows such principle and
right feeling as you can trust to
Thank you, papa. I know you will do all that is kind
Mind, you must not consider it an engagement, unless all be
satisfactory
I will do as you please
Such a cub
Come in, Ethel; Margaret says you guessed
at this affair
At what affair
Oh, it is about Flora. Poor man; has
he done it
Poor! He is not the one to be pitied
You don't mean that she likes him
She does though! A fellow with no more brains than a turnip lantern
She does not mean it
Yes, she does! Very submissive, and proper spoken, of course, but bent
on having him; so there is nothing left for me but to consent -- provided
Mr. Rivers does, and he should turn out not to have done anything
outrageous; but there's no hope of that -- he has not the energy. What can
possess her? What can she see to admire
He is good-natured
and rather good-looking
Flora has more sense. What on earth can be the attraction
I am afraid it is partly the grandeur
Ethel
I won't have such motives ascribed to your sister
Ethel did not mean, dear papa
No
The
truth is, that I have made home so dreary, that my girls are ready to
take the first means of escaping
Oh, papa, papa! it was no want of happiness! I could not
help it. You know he had come before
I must go to my work; the man is coming here this
afternoon
Where shall you see him
In my study, I suppose. I fear there is no chance of Flora's changing
her mind first. Or do you think one of you could talk to her, and get
her fairly to contemplate the real bearings of the matter
It will be of no use
and, what is more, she will not
have it done
Pray try; a few of your forcible words would set it in a new light
Why! Do you think she will attend to me, when she has not chosen to
heed papa
No; whatever
Flora does, is done deliberately, and unalterably
Still, I don't know whether it is not our duty
More yours than mine
Oh, no, I cannot
But
there is Flora, walking in the garden with Norman
No doubt
he is doing it
What impression do you mean
Why, about this concern
this terrible man, that makes
papa so unhappy
Papa unhappy! Why, what does he know against him? I thought the
Riverses were his peculiar pets
The Riverses! As if, because one liked the sparkling stream, one must
like a muddy ditch
What harm do you know of him
Harm! Is he not a regular oaf
My dear Ethel, if you wait to marry till you find some one as clever as
yourself, you will wait long enough
I don't think it right for a woman to marry a man decidedly her
inferior
We have all learned to think much too highly of talent
I don't care for mere talent -- people are generally more sensible
without it; but, one way or other, there ought to be superiority on the
man's side
Well, who says there is not
My dear Norman! Why, this George Rivers is really below the average!
you cannot deny that! Did you ever meet any one so stupid
Really
I
cannot see why you think so. I do not see that he is at all less capable
of sustaining a conversation than Richard
I do not mean
that we have not much more to say to Richard; all I meant to say was,
merely as to the intellect
I tell you
it is not the intellect. Richard! why, you
know how we respect, and look up to him. Dear old Ritchie! with his
goodness, and earnestness, and right judgment -- to compare him to that
man! Norman, Norman, I never thought it of you
You do not understand me, Ethel. I only cited Richard, as a person who
proves how little cleverness is needed to insure respect
And, I tell you, that cleverness is not the point
It is the only objection you have put forward
I did wrong
It is not the real one. It is earnest
goodness that one honours in Richard. Where do we find it in this man,
who has never done anything but yawn over his self indulgence
Now, Ethel, you are working yourself up into a state of foolish
prejudice. You and papa have taken a dislike to him; and you are
overlooking a great deal of good safe sense and right thinking. I
know his opinions are sound, and his motives right. He has been
undereducated, we all see, and is not very brilliant or talkative; but I
respect Flora for perceiving his solid qualities
Very solid and weighty, indeed
I wonder if
she would have seen them in a poor curate
Ethel, you are allowing yourself to be carried, by prejudice, a
great deal too far. Are such imputations to be made, wherever there is
inequality of means? It is very wrong! very unjust
So papa said
He was
very angry with me for saying so. I wish I could help feeling as if that
were the temptation
You ought
You will be sorry, if you set yourself, and
him, against it
I only wish you to know what I feel; and, I think, Margaret and papa
do
and then you will not think us more unjust than
we are. We cannot see anything so agreeable or suitable in this man as
to account for Flora's liking, and we do not feel convinced of his being
good for much. That makes papa greatly averse to it, though he does not
know any positive reason for refusing; and we cannot feel certain that
she is doing quite right, or for her own happiness
You will be convinced
You will find out the
good that is under the surface when you have seen more of him. I have
had a good deal of talk with him
the detestable
Never my brother like Harry
No, indeed; nor like Alan
And I won't call him
George, I am determined, if it is ever so
It will not matter to him what such little girls call him
Now then, you are property of my own
May I not take you
all for sisters
Ethel
I see, and I wanted to talk to you. You don't think
poor George good enough for Flora
I never meant to show it
You need not mind
I was very much surprised
myself, and thought it all a mistake. But I am so very glad, for I know
it will make such a difference to him, poor fellow. I should like to
tell you all about him, for no one else can very well, and you will like
him better, perhaps. You know my grandfather made his own fortune, and
you would think some of our relations very queer. My Aunt Dorothy once
told me all about it -- papa was made to marry the partner's daughter, and
I fancy she could not have been much of a lady. I don't think he could
have been very happy with her, but she soon died, and left him with this
one son, whom those odd old aunts brought up their own way. By and by,
you know, papa came to be in quite another line of society, but when he
married again, poor George had been so spoiled by these aunts, and was
so big, and old, that my mother did not know what to make of him
A great lubberly boy
He is thirteen years older than I am
and you see it has
been hard on him altogether; he had not the education that papa would
have given him if he had been born later: and he can't remember his
mother, and has always been at a loss when with clever people. I never
understood it till within the last two or three years, nor knew
how trying it must be to see such a little chit as me made so much
of -- almost thrusting him aside. But you cannot think what a warm-hearted
good fellow he is -- he has never been otherwise than so very kind to
me, and he was so very fond of his old aunt. Hitherto, he has had such
disadvantages, and no real, sensible woman has taken him in hand; he
does not care for papa's tastes, and I am so much younger, that I never
could get on with him at all, till this time; but I do know that he has
a real good temper, and all sorts of good qualities, and that he only
needs to be led right, to go right. Oh! Flora may make anything of him,
and we are so thankful to her for having found it out
Thank you for telling me
It is much more satisfactory to
have no shamming
Dear Dr. May, I thought he would think his beautiful Flora not exactly
matched -- but tell him, Ethel, for if he once is sorry for poor George,
he will like him. And it will really be the making of George, to be
thrown with him and your brothers. Oh! we are so glad! But I won't tease
you to be so
I can like it better now
You know Norman thinks very
highly of your brother, and declares that it will all come out by and
by
the old
gentleman
a great nuisance
And
if dear Margaret ever should be ill, you may reckon on
me
Never mind, Ethel
I shall meet Sir Henry Walkinghame in
London, and will talk to him. We shall yet astonish the muses. If we can
get the land without them, we shall be able to manage it our own way,
without obligations
You forget the money
We will keep them from dissipating it -- or that might be no harm! A
hundred pounds will be easily found, and we should then have it in our
own hands. Besides, you know, I don't mean to give up. I shall write a
polite note to Mrs. Ledwich, begging to subscribe on my own account, and
to retain my seat! and you will see what we shall do
You mean to come down with the external authority
True! and though my driving in with a pair of horses may make little
difference to you, Ethel, depend upon it, Mrs. Ledwich will be the more
amenable. Whenever I want to be particularly impressive, I shall bring
in that smelling-bottle, with the diamond stopper that won't come out,
and you will find that carries all before it
A talisman
But I had rather they yielded to a
sense of right
So had I
Perhaps you will rule them that way
Not I
Then you must come to me, and secondary motives. Seriously -- I do mean
that George should do something for Stoneborough; and, in a position of
influence, I hope to be able to be useful to my poor old town. Perhaps
we shall have the minster restored
a parson's week
Oh, he looks so nice
So, Mr. Ritchie
you have made quite a sensation -- every one
shaking me by the hand, and thanking me for my son's sermon. You will be
a popular preacher at last
Oh!
Margaret! I cannot leave you! Oh! how happy we have been
You are going to be happier, we trust, dearest
Oh! what have I done? It is not worth it
For man
walketh in a vain shadow, and disquieteth himself in vain
assisted by
No, papa. I did not know my hand was shaky
Bless
you! my child
Only be what your mother was
I see
even schoolchildren will not be so good for
you as peace
Thank you
I should like to be quiet till the evening, if
you will let me off. It is very kind in you
I ought to know how to pity you
I who have gained what
you have lost
I want to think too
It is the beginning to me of a new
life, and I have not been able to look at it yet
Besides, Margaret will want you. Poor Margaret -- has it been very trying
to her
I fear so, but I shall keep out of her way, and leave her to a quiet
afternoon with Richard. It will be the greatest treat to those two to be
together
Very well, I will carry off the children, and leave the house quiet
N. B.  These are a standard -- not a bed of Procrustes.
   MUSTS -- To be first consulted.-- Mays -- last.  Ethel May's
          last of all.
          If I cannot do everything -- omit the self-chosen.
   MEM --  Neither hurry when it depends on myself,
          nor fidget when it depends on others.
   Keep a book going to pacify myself
But why
why should you wish to distress him
Because I cannot bear that he should be deceived, and should feed on
false hopes. Do you think it right, Richard
I will write to him, if you like
but I think he
must pretty well know the truth from all the letters to Harry and to
himself
It would be so much better for him to settle his mind at once
Perhaps he would not think so
Margaret, will you pardon me? I do think that this is a
little restlessness. The truth has not been kept from him, and I do
not see that we are called to force it on him. He is sensible and
reasonable, and will know how to judge when he comes home
It was to try to save him the pang
Yes; but it will be worse far away than near. I do not mean that we
should conceal the fact, but you have no right to give him up before he
comes home. The whole engagement was for the time of his voyage
Then you think I ought not to break it off before his return
Certainly not
It will be pain spared -- unless it should be worse by and by
I do not suppose we ought to look to by and by
How so
Do the clearly right thing for the present, I mean
without
anxiety for the rest. How do we -- any of us -- know what may be the case in
another year
Do not flatter me with hopes
I have
had too many of them
No
I do not think you will ever get well. But so much
may happen
I had rather have my mind made up once for all, and resign myself
His will is sometimes that we should be uncertain
And that is the most trying
Just so
I feel how much has been right
This wedding has
brought my real character before me. I feel what I should have been. You
have no notion how excited and elated I can get about a little bit of
dress out of the common way for myself or others
and then all the external show and things belonging to station -- I
naturally care much more for them than even Flora does. Ethel would bear
all those things as if they did not exist -- I could not
They would be a temptation
They would once have been. Yes, they would now
And
government, and management, and influence -- you would not guess what
dreams I used to waste on them, and now here am I set aside from it all,
good for nothing but for all you dear ones to be kind to
They would not say so
Not say it, but I feel it. Papa and Ethel are all the world to each
other -- Richard, I may say it to you. There has been only one thing more
hard to bear than that -- don't suppose there was a moment's neglect or
disregard; but when first I understood that Ethel could be more to him
than I, then I could not always feel rightly. It was the punishment for
always wanting to be first
My father would be grieved that you had the notion. You should not keep
it
He does not know it is so
I am his first care, I
fear, his second grief; but it is not in the nature of things that Ethel
should not be more his comfort and companion. Oh! I am glad it was not
she who married! What shall we do when she goes
Wild Sports of the West
Newdigate
Prize Poem
There! there
Yes! it is Flora! Only she has her hair
done in a funny way
How natural you look
And how is Margaret
Pretty well-but the heat makes her languid
Is there any letter yet
No
I do not see any cause for alarm -- letters are so often detained, but,
of course, she will be anxious. Has she had pain in the back again
Sometimes, but summer always does her good
I shall see her to-morrow -- and the Daisy. How do you all get on? Have
you broken down yet, Ethel
Oh! we do go on
the worst thing I have done was
expecting James to dress the salads with lamp-oil
A Greenland salad! But don't talk of oil -- I have the taste still in my
mouth after the Pyrennean cookery! Oh! Ethel, you would have been wild
with delight in those places
Snowy mountains! Are they not like a fairy-dream to you now? You must
have felt at home, as a Scotchwoman's daughter
Think of the peaks in the sunrise! Oh! I wanted you in the pass of
Roncevalles, to hear the echo of Roland's horn. And we saw the cleft
made by Roland's sword in the rocks
Oh! how delightful -- and Spain too
Ay, the Isle of Pheasants, where all the conferences took place
Where Louis XIV. met his bride, and Francois I. sealed his treason with
his empty flourish
Well, don't let us fight about Francois I. now; I want to know how Tom
likes Eton
He gets on famously. I am so glad he is in the same house with Hector
Mr. Ramsden -- how is he
No better; he has not done any duty for weeks. Tomkins and his set want
to sell the next presentation, but papa hopes to stave that off, for
there is a better set than usual in the Town Council this year
Cocksmoor? And how are our friends the muses? I found a note from the
secretary telling me that I am elected again. How have they behaved
Pretty well
Mrs. Ledwich has been away, so we have had
few meetings, and have been pretty quiet, except for an uproar about
the mistress beating that Franklin's girl -- and what do you think I did,
Flora? I made bold to say the woman should show her to papa, to see if
she had done her any harm, and he found that it was all a fabrication
from one end to the other. So it ended in the poor girl being expelled,
and Mary and I have her twice a week, to see if there is any grace in
her
To reward her
That is always your way
Why, one cannot give the poor thing quite up
You will manage the ladies at last
Not while Mrs. Ledwich is there
I'll cope with her! But, come, I want you in my room
May not I come
I must see when
Paris fashions
Yes; but I don't parade my own dresses here
Whose are they then? Your commissions, Meta
No
Your French maid's then
I dare say she dresses quite as
well; and the things are too really pretty and simple for an English
maid's taste
I am glad you like them
Now, please to be
good
Who are they for then
For a young lady, whose brother has got the Newdigate prize, and who is
going to Oxford
Me! Those! But I have not got four backs
Come
you may as well be quiet. Whatever you may like,
I am not going to have the Newdigate prizeman shown as brother to a
scarecrow. I knew what you would come to, without me to take care of
you. Look at yourself in the glass
I'm sure I see no harm in myself
And
besides, I have really got a new gown on purpose -- a good useful silk,
that papa chose at Whitford -- just the colour of a copper tea-kettle,
where it turns purple
Ethel! you will kill me
And I suppose
that you have sent it to
Miss Broad's, without any directions, and she will trim it with
flame-coloured gimp, and glass buttons; and, unless Margaret catches
you, you will find yourself ready to set the Thames on fire. No, my dear
tea-kettle, I take you to Oxford on my own terms, and you had better
submit, without a fuss, and be thankful it is no worse. George wanted me
to buy you a white brocade, with a perfect flower-garden on it, that you
could have examined with a microscope. I was obliged to let him buy that
lace mantle, to make up to him. Now then, Meta, the scene opens, and
discovers
I am the more sorry
as we shall dine so late. You desired Norman to bring any
friend he liked, did you not, Flora
Yes, and he spoke of bringing our old friend, Charles Cheviot, and Mr.
Ogilvie
Mr. Ogilvie
the Master of Glenbracken! Oh! I am so glad!
I have wanted so much to see him
Ah! he is a great hero of yours
Do you know him
No; but he is a great friend of Norman's, and a Scottish cousin -- Norman
Ogilvie. Norman has his name from the Ogilvies
Our grandmother, Mrs. Mackenzie, was a daughter of Lord Glenbracken
This man might be called the Master of Glenbracken at home
It is such a pretty title, and there is a beautiful history
belonging to them. There was a Master of Glenbracken who carried James
IV.'s standard at Flodden, and would not yield, and was killed with it
wrapped round his body, and the Lion was dyed with his blood. Mamma knew
some scraps of a ballad about him. Then they were out with Montrose,
and had their castle burned by the Covenanters, and since that they have
been Jacobites, and one barely escaped being beheaded at Carlisle! I
want to hear the rights of it. Norman is to go, some time or other, to
stay at Glenbracken
Yes
coming down to times present, this young heir seems
worthy of his race. They are pattern people -- have built a church, and
have all their tenantry in excellent order. This is the only son, and
very good and clever -- he preferred going to Balliol, that he might work;
but he is a great sportsman, George
you will get on with
him very well, about fishing, and grouse shooting, I dare say
Well done. Flora
Why! I have been telling Ogilvie that one
of my sisters was very plain
Then, I hope we have been preparing an agreeable surprise for him
Ethel is very much obliged to you. By the bye
I must ask Harvey Anderson to dinner one of
these days
Don't
Oh, very well; it is as you please. I thought it would please
Stoneborough, and that Edward was a protege of yours. What has he been
doing? Did we not hear he had been distinguishing himself? Dr. Hoxton
was boasting of his two scholars
Ask him
At least
do not let
anything from me prevent you
Has he been doing anything wrong
Not that I know of
Thanks are due, for our being spared an infliction
next week
Have you seen it
I read my friend's poems? But our lungs are prepared! Will you give
me my cue -- it is of no use to ask him when we are to deafen you. One
generally knows the crack passages -- something beginning with 'Oh,
woman!' but it is well to be in readiness -- if you would only forewarn me
of the telling hits
If they cannot tell themselves
I don't think
they deserve the name
Perhaps you think what does tell on the undergraduates, collectively,
is not always what ought to tell on them
I don't know. I dare say the same would not be a favourite with them
and with me
I should like to know which are your favourites. No doubt you have a
copy here -- made by yourself
Let me see
he told me the
thoughts were more yours than his own
Did he? That was not fair. One thought was an old one, long ago talked
over between us; the rest is all his own
Yes
May goes deep -- deeper than most men -- though I
doubt whether they will applaud this
I should like it better if they did not
It is rather to
be felt than shouted at
And I don't know how the world would go on if it were felt. Few men
would do much without the hope of fame
Is it the question what they would do
So you call fame a low motive? I see where your brother's philosophy
comes from
I do not call it a low motive
Nor allow that the Non omnis moriar of Horace has in it something
divine
For a heathen -- yes
And pray, what would you have the moving spring
Duty
Would not that end in 'Mine be a cot, beside the rill
Well, and suppose an enemy came, would duty prompt not the Hay with the
joke -- or Winkelried on the spears
Nay, why not --'It is my duty to take care of Lucy
Then Lucy ought to be broken on her own wheel
Not at all! It is Lucy's duty to keep her Colin from running into
danger
I hope there are not many Lucies who would think so
I agree with you. Most would rather have Colin killed than disgraced
To be sure
but what is disgrace
Some say it is misfortune
Is it not failure in duty
Well
Colin's first duty is to his king and country. If he fail in that, he
is disgraced, in his own eyes, before Heaven and men. If he does it,
there is a reward, which seems to me a better, more powerful motive
for Lucy to set before him than 'My dear, I hope you will distinguish
yourself,' when the fact is,


                "'England has forty thousand men,
                   We trust, as good as he.'


"'Victory or Westminster Abbey!' is a tolerable war-cry
Not so good as 'England expects every man to do his duty.' That serves
for those who cannot look to Westminster Abbey
Ah! you are an English woman
Only by halves. I had rather have been the Master of Glenbracken at
Flodden than King James, or
better to have been the
Swinton or the Gordon at Homildon than all the rest put together
I always thought Swinton a pig-headed old fellow, and I have little
doubt that my ancestor was a young ruffian
Why
It was the normal state of Scottish gentlemen
If I thought you were in earnest, I should say you did not deserve to
be a Scot
And so you wish to make me out a fause Scot
Ogilvie
are you fighting Scottish and English battles
with Ethel there? We want you to tell us which will be the best day for
going to Blenheim
Why, Flora! ask him! Norman
any day
Norman is wiser than you are, Ethel
He knows that
Stoneborough would be up in arms at any neglect from us to one of the
Andersons, and, considering the rivalship, it is the more graceful, and
becoming
I do not think it right
I believe that a line
ought to be drawn, and that we ought not to associate with people who
openly tamper with their faith
Never fear
I promise you that there shall be no
debates at my table
It is vain to argue with her
but, Norman, do not you think
it is clearly wrong to seek after men who desert and deny
If the secrets of men's hearts were probed, who could cast the
first stone
I don't want to cast stones
out with Montrose
A lucky step
A grand thing for Ethel -- a capital
connection for us all. Lady Glenbracken will not come too much into my
sphere either. Yes, I am doing well by my sisters
I suppose everything, our own happiness and all, are given to us to
turn into praise
Yes
Happy such as can do so
If one only could
You can -- don't say otherwise
I know, at least,
that you and my father can
Dr. May does so, more than any one I know
Yes
it is his secret of joy. To him, it is never,
I am half sick of shadows
To him they are not shadows, but foretastes
I have always thought it must be such a
happiness to have power of any kind that can be used in direct service,
or actual doing good
No
Whatever becomes a profession, becomes an
unreality
Surely not, in becoming a duty
Not for all
but where the fabric erected by ourselves,
in the sight of the world, is but an outer case, a shell of mere words,
blown up for the occasion, strung together as mere language;
then, self-convicted, we shrink within the husk, and feel our own
worthlessness and hypocrisy
As one feels in reproving the school children for behaving ill at
church
You never felt anything approaching to it
To know
oneself to be such a deception, that everything else seems a delusion
too
I don't know whether that is metaphysical
but I am sure
I don't understand it. One must know oneself to be worse than one knows
any one else to be
I could not wish you to understand
When the
wanderer in the desert fears that the spring is but a mirage; or when
all that is held dear is made hazy or distorted by some enchanter, what
do you think are the feelings, Meta
It must be dreadful
but he may know
it is a delusion, if he can but wake. Has he not always a spell, a
charm
What is the spell
Believe
I believe
What -- when we go beyond the province of
reason -- human, a thing of sense after all! How often have I so answered.
But Meta, when a man has been drawn, in self-sufficient security, to
look into a magic mirror, and cannot detach his eyes from the confused,
misty scene -- where all that had his allegiance appears shattered,
overthrown, like a broken image, or at least unable to endure
examination, then
Oh, Norman, is that the trial to any one here? I thought old Oxford was
the great guardian nurse of truth! I am sure she cannot deal in magic
mirrors or such frightful things. Do you know you are talking like a
very horrible dream
I believe I am in one
To be sure you are. Wake
You have read yourself into a maze, that's all -- what Mary calls,
muzzling your head; you don't really think all this, and when you get
into the country, away from books, you will forget it. One look at our
dear old purple Welsh hills will blow away all the mists
I ought not to have spoken in this manner
Forget
it, Meta
Forget it! Of course I will. It is all nonsense, and meant to be
forgotten
You will own that it is by-and-by
Don't think I am unfeeling
but I know it is all a fog
up from books, books, books -- I should like to drive it off with a good
fresh gust of wind! Oh! I wish those yellow lilies would grow in our
river
Ethel
only one thing: do ask my father not to put
on his spectacles to-morrow
Very well
Richard did not mind them
Richard has more humility -- I shall break down if he looks at me! I wish
you were all at home
Thank you
Never mind
I'll take care of him. He shall comport
himself as if you were all at Nova Zembla. A pretty fellow to talk of
despising fame, and then get a fit of stage-fright
Well, good-night
It will be over to-morrow;
only remember the spectacles
He will
This nervousness always wears off when it comes
to the point, and he warms with his subject
Oh! but think of all the eyes looking at him
Our's are all that he really cares for, and he will think of none of
them, when he begins. No, Meta, you must not encourage him in it. Papa
says, if he did not think it half morbid -- the result of the shock to his
nerves -- he should be angry with it as a sort of conceit
I should have thought that the last thing to be said of Norman
It was once in his nature
and I think it is the fault
he most beats down. There was a time, before you knew him, when he would
have been vain and ambitious
Then it is as they say, conquered faults grow to be the opposite
virtues
How very good he is, Ethel; one sees it more when
he is with other people, and one hears all these young men's stories
Everything Norman does not do, is not therefore wrong
Don't you like him the better for keeping out of all these follies
Norman does not call them so, I am sure
No, he is too good to condemn
It is not only that
I know papa thinks that the first
grief, coming at his age, and in the manner it did, checked and subdued
his spirits, so that he has little pleasure in those things. And he
always meant to be a clergyman, which acted as a sort of consecration on
him; but many things are innocent; and I do believe papa would like it
better, if Norman were less grave
Yes
but still, he would not
be all he is -- so different from others
Of course, I don't mean less good, only, less grave
and
certainly less nervous. But, perhaps, it is a good thing; dear mamma
thought his talents would have been a greater temptation than they seem
to be, subdued as he has been. I only meant that you must not condemn
all that Norman does not do. Now, goodnight
Ah! that resolve had seemed easy enough when it was made, when
I fancied no one could care for me! Shame on me! Now is
the time to test it! I must go home with papa
I will go home with papa
Papa! if you please, I should like to go home
to-morrow with you
Eh
How is this? I told you that Miss Bracy
and Mary are doing famously
Yes, but I had rather go back
Indeed
They make you
welcome, I hope
Oh, yes! nothing can be kinder
I am glad to hear it. This Rivers is such a lout, that I could not tell
how it might be. I did not look to see you turn homesick all at once
Yes, I have been very happy; but please, papa, ask no
questions -- only take me home
Come! it is all a homesick fit, Ethel -- never fear the ball. Think of
the concert. If it were not for that poor baby of Mrs. Larkins, I should
stay myself to hear Sonntag again. You won't have such another chance
I know, but I think I ought to go
Flora, please don't be
angry with me -- you have been very kind to me, but I mean to go home with
papa to-morrow
I declare
you are as bad as the children
at the infant school, crying to go home the instant they see their
mothers
No, Flora, but I must go. Thank you for all this pleasure, but I shall
have heard Norman's poem, and then I must go
My dear, never mind, it will all come right again -- only, don't run
away
What will come right
Any little misunderstanding with Norman Ogilvie
I don't know what you mean
My dear, you need not try to hide it. I see that you have got into a
fright. You have made a discovery, but that is no reason for running
away
Yes it is
Poor child! she is afraid
but I will take care
of you, Ethel. It is everything delightful. You are the very girl for
such a heros de Roman, and it has embellished you more than all my Paris
fineries
Hush, Flora! We ought not to talk in this way, as if
As if he had done more than walk with, and talk with, nobody else! How
he did hate papa last night. I had a great mind to call papa off, in
pity to him
Don't, Flora. If there were anything in it, it would not be proper to
think of it, so I am going home to prevent it
Proper
The Mays are a good old family, and our own
grandmother was an honourable Ogilvie herself. A Scottish baron, very
poor too, has no right to look down
They shall not look down. Flora, it is of no use to talk. I cannot be
spared from home, and I will not put myself in the way of being tempted
to forsake them all
Tempted
Is it such a wicked thing
Not in others, but it would be wrong in me, with such a state of things
as there is at home
I do not suppose he would want you for some years to come. He is only
two-and-twenty. Mary will grow older
Margaret will either be married, or want constant care. Flora, I will
not let myself be drawn from them
You may think so now; but it would be for their real good to relieve
papa of any of us. If we were all to think as you do, how should we
live? I don't know -- for papa told me there will be barely ten thousand
pounds, besides the houses, and what will that be among ten? I am not
talking of yourself, but think of the others
I know papa will not be happy without me, and I will not leave him
We are getting into the
heroics
when it would be very foolish to break up our
plans, only because we have found a pleasant cousin. There is nothing
serious in it, I dare say. How silly of us to argue on such an idea
It will be safer
Oh, Norman
At your service
Oh, I beg your pardon; I thought
Your thoughts were quite right
Your brother
desires me to present his respects to his honoured family, and to inform
them that his stock of assurance is likely to be diminished by the
pleasure of their company this morning
How is he
Pretty fair. He has blue saucers round his eyes, as he had before he
went up for his little go
Oh, I know them
Very odd
when the end always is, that he says
he has the luck of being set on in the very place he knows best. But I
think it has expended itself in a sleepless night, and I have no fears,
when he comes to the point
What is he doing
Writing to his brother Harry. He said it was the day for the Pacific
mail, and that Harry's pleasure would be the best of it
Ah
is there any naval
intelligence
Ha! No. Is your brother's
ship the Alcestis
Yes! Oh, what
Nothing then, I assure you. See, it is merely this -- she has not come
into Sydney so soon as expected, which you knew before. That is all
Let me see
But Norman
Ah! true. Poor May! He will break down to a certainty if he hears it. I
will go at once, and keep guard over him, lest he should meet with this
paper. But pray, don't be alarmed. I assure you there is no cause. You
will have letters to-morrow
the bear fight
Well, Ethel, are
you ready for the ball
We shall spare her the ball
there is a report about
the Alcestis in the newspaper that may make Margaret uncomfortable, and
this good sister will not stay away from her
What, papa
It is a mere nothing in reality
only what we knew
before
Serious apprehensions are entertained with regard
to H. M. S. Alcestis, Captain Gordon
If you had seen as many newspaper reports come to nothing, as I have,
you would not take this so much to heart
I expect to
hear that this very mail has brought letters
When do we set off
At five
You mean it, papa
I did intend it, if I had gone alone, but I shall not take you till
eight; nor you, Norman, at all
Are you really
going home
Yes, my eldest sister must not be left alone when she hears this
Good-bye; I hope you will find letters at home
it was not worth while -- this
carriage was a very transitory resting-place
Dick
himself
Spencer, old fellow, is it you
Ha! what is amiss with your arm
Ethel,
here! You have heard of him
Ay; and what for, do you think
You don't say that was your son who held forth yesterday! I thought his
voice had a trick of yours -- but then I thought you would have held by
old Cambridge
What could I do
the boy would go and get
a Balliol scholarship
Why! the lad is a genius! a poet -- no mistake about it! but I scarcely
thought you could have one of such an age
Of his age! His brother is in Holy Orders -- one of his sisters is
married. There's for you, Spencer
Bless me, Dick! I thought myself a young man
What! with hair of that colour
Bleached by that frightful sickly season at Poonshedagore, when I
thought I was done for. But you! you -- the boy of the whole lot! You
think me very disrespectful to your father
but you see what old times are
I know
So you were in the theatre yesterday
but there is
no seeing any one in such a throng. How long have you been in England
A fortnight. I went at once to see my sister, at Malvern; there I fell
in with Rudden, the man I was with in New Guinea. He was going up to be
made an honorary doctor, and made me come with him
And where are you bound for
For London. I meant to hunt up Mat. Fleet, and hear of you, and other
old friends
Does he expect you
No one expects me. I am a regular vagabond
Come home with us
I cannot
part with you so soon. Come, find your luggage. Take your ticket for
Gloucester
So suddenly! Will it not be inconvenient
Oh, no, no; pray come
We shall be so glad
All well at home
Yes, sir, Miss Margaret sent up the gig
I must go at once
the Larkins' child is worse.
Ethel, take care of him, and introduce him. Love to Margaret. I'll be at
home before tea
My dear, you must forgive me, I have heard nothing for many
years. Your mother
It was an accident
It was
when papa's arm was hurt. The carriage was over-turned
And
She was killed on the spot
Margaret had some harm done to her spine -- she cannot walk
Miss Ethel! Miss Ethel
Miss Ethel
I beg your pardon, but have you
heard from Harry
No
Have they had that paper at home
Not that I know of
My mother wanted to send it, but I
would not take it -- not while Dr. May was away
Thank you -- that was very kind of you
And oh! Miss Ethel, do you think it is true
We hope not
we saw a Captain at Oxford who
thought it not at all to be depended on
I am so glad
We are very anxious for news of my next brother's ship,
Alcestis, in the Pacific
More
Good Heavens! I
thought May, at least, was happy
He is not unhappy
How long ago was this
Four years, next October. I assure you, his spirits are almost always
good
When I was at Adelaide, little thinking
Forgive me, I have given you pain
No
or rather, I gave you more
I knew her
This garden is not much altered
But you know, Daisy, you are the captain of the forty
thieves
A startling announcement
Ethel! Ethel
That will do! that will do, old man -- let go! Speak to Dr. Spencer, my
dear
Coming, as soon as he has been to Mrs. Larkins's poor baby
George Larkins has been here
And I have finished
'Vipera et lima', Ethel, but Margaret makes such false quantities
What is your name, youngster
Aubrey Spencer May
Hey day! where did you steal my name
Oh
is it really
the boy that climbed the market cross
You see your fame lives here
He was a little boy
There
The tables turned
But do not let me keep
you. You would wish to prepare your sister for a stranger, and I shall
improve my acquaintance here. Where are the forty thieves
I am all of them
Naughty girl! running home at once! I did think you
would have been happy there
So I was
but who do you think I have brought
home
Ethel, have you heard
Have you
George Larkins rode in this morning to see when papa would come home,
and he told me. He said I had better not tell Margaret, for he did not
believe it
And you have not! That is very good of you, Mary
Oh! I am glad you are come! I could not have helped telling, if you had
been away a whole week! But, Ethel, does papa believe it
So Margaret does not know
No, Mary has been so very good
Well done, Mary, I must tell her so. She is a good girl on a pinch, you
see
And we don't speak of it now? Or will it hurt Margaret more to think we
keep things from her
That is the worst risk of the two. I have seen great harm done in that
way. Mention it, but without seeming to make too much of it
Won't you, papa
You had better -- it will seem of less importance. I think nothing of it
myself
How was the Larkins' baby
Doing better. What have you done with Spencer
I put him into Richard's room. The children were eating him up! He is
so kind to them
Ay! I say, Ethel, that was a happy consequence of your coming home with
me
What a delightful person he is
Is he not? A true knight errant, as he always was! I could not tell you
what I owed to him as a boy -- all my life, I may say. Ethel
we must do our best to make him happy here. I know it now -- I
never guessed it then, but one is very hard and selfish when one is
happy
What do you mean, papa
I see it now
the cause of his
wandering life -- advantages thrown aside. He! the most worthy. Things
I little heeded at the time have come back on me! I understand why he
banished himself
Why
She never had an idea of it; but I might have guessed from what fell
from him unconsciously, for not a word would he have said -- nor did he
say, to show how he sacrificed himself
Who was it? Aunt Flora
No, Ethel, it was your own dear mother! You will think this another
romantic fancy of mine, but I am sure of it
So am I
How -- what? Ah! I remembered after we parted that he might know
nothing
He asked me
And how did he bear it
It was wrong and cruel in me to bring him home unprepared! and then to
leave it to you. I always forget other people's feelings. Poor Spencer!
And now, Ethel, you see what manner of man we have here, and how we
ought to treat him
Indeed I do
The most unselfish -- the most self-sacrificing
And to see what it all turned on! I happened to have this place open to
me -- the very cause, perhaps, of my having taken things easy -- and so the
old Professor threw opportunities in my way; while Aubrey Spencer, with
every recommendation that man could have, was set aside, and exiled
himself, leaving the station, and all he might so easily have gained.
Ah, Ethel, Sir Matthew Fleet never came near him in ability. But not one
word to interfere with me would he say, and -- how I have longed to meet
him again, after parting in my selfish, unfeeling gladness; and now I
have nothing to do for him, but show him how little I was to be trusted
with her
Ah! well, you are her children
Ethel has introduced you, I see
Ay, I assure you, it was an alarming introduction. No sooner do I enter
your garden, than I hear that I am in the midst of the Forty Thieves.
I find a young lady putting the world to death, after the fashion of
Hamlet -- and, looking about to find what I have lost, I find this urchin
has robbed me of my name -- a property I supposed was always left to
unfortunate travellers, however small they might be chopped themselves
Well, Aubrey boy, will you make restitution
It is my name
He
is not without dread of the threat being fulfilled, and himself left to
be that Anon who, Blanche says, writes so much poetry
only in fun
I did not
think my name would have been remembered here so long
We had used up mine, and the grandfathers', and the uncles', and began
to think we might look a little further a-field
If I
had only known where you were, I would have asked you to be the varlet's
godfather; but I was much afraid you were nowhere in the land of the
living
I have but one godson, and he is coffee-coloured! I ought to have
written; but, you see, for seven years I thought I was coming home
That was
almost as bad as Ulysses
nasty people
Poor Norman, he suffered enough anent Randall's Alley
but as to the Market Cross, that came down a year before he was born
It was the Town Council
One of the ordinary stultifications of Town Councils
Take care, Spencer
I am a Town Council man my-self
You, Dick
As sure as my name is Dick May
Of course
Dost thou not suspect my place? Dost thou
not suspect my years? One that hath two gowns, and everything handsome
about him
Dick
Oh, May! I did not expect
this
I should have prepared you
but I never recollected
that you knew nothing
I had dwelt on your happiness
There never were two happier creatures for twenty-two years
Sorrow spared her! Yes, think of her
always in undimmed brightness -- always smiling as you remember her. She
was happy. She is
And you, Dick
Sorrow spared her
And hers are very good
children
What do you
think of my poor girl
You have been sorely tried
I have received much good
Goodnight! I am
glad to have you here -- if you can bear it
Bear it? Dick! how like that girl is to you! She is yourself
Such a self as I never was! Good-night
feelings
Cocksmoor speed
that it
was as well to be hot in the sun as in the shade
Ethel
Well, and how are you
Quite well now, thank you. Was Margaret frightened? Why did you come
I thought it would make her happier, as your father was not at home.
Here, let me feel your pulse. Do you think no one is a doctor but your
papa? There's not much the matter with you, however. Where is Ethel
In the school
No wonder
How many human creatures do you keep there
Forty-seven to-day
I shall indict you for cruelty to animals! I think I have known it
hotter at Poonshedagore, but there we had punkahs
It was very wrong of me
I should have thought of poor
Mary, in that sunny walk, but Mary never complains
Oh, never mind
it did not hurt
I'm not thinking of Mary
but of the wretched
beings you are leaving shut up there. I wonder what the mercury would be
there
We cannot help it
We cannot get the ground
Ethel, dearest
is
there anything the matter
No, nothing, but that Oxford has spoiled me
I am very cross and selfish
It will be better by-and-by
if only you are sure you
have nothing to make you unhappy
Nothing
If only we could do something for Cocksmoor
with that one hundred and fifty pounds lying idle
Dick
you seem to have found an expedient for making
havoc among your daughters
It does not hurt them
Pretty well, after the specimen of to-day
That was chance
If you like it, I have no more to say; but I should like to make you
sit for two hours in such a temperature. If they were mine
Very fine talking, but I would not take the responsibility of hindering
the only pains that have ever been taken with that unlucky place. You
don't know that girl Ethel. She began at fifteen, entirely of her own
accord, and has never faltered. If any of the children there are saved
from perdition, it is owing to her, and I am not going to be the man to
stop her. They are strong, healthy girls, and I cannot see that it does
them any harm -- rather good
Have you any special predilection for a room eight feet by nine
Can't be helped. What would you have said if you had seen the last
What is this about one hundred and fifty pounds in hand
The ladies here chose to have a fancy fair, the only result of which,
hitherto, has been the taking away my Flora. There is the money, but the
land can't be had
Why not
Tied up between the Drydale Estate and ---- College, and in the hands
of the quarry master, Nicolson. There was an application made to the
College, but they did not begin at the right end
Upon my word, Dick, you take it easy
I own I have not stirred in the matter
I knew nothing
would come to good under the pack of silly women that our schools
are ridden with
pish
and that old Ramsden, it is absolutely useless to work with
such a head -- or no head. There's nothing for it but to wait for better
times, instead of setting up independent, insubordinate action
You are the man to leave venerable abuses undisturbed
The cure is worse than the disease
There spoke the Corporation
Ah! it was not the way you set to work in Poonshedagore
Why, really, when the venerable abuses consisted of Hindoos praying to
their own three-legged stools, and keeping sacred monkeys in honour of
the ape Hanyuman, it was a question whether one could be a Christian
oneself, and suffer it undisturbed. It was coming it too strong, when
I was requested to lend my own step-ladder for the convenience of an
exhibition of a devotee swinging on hooks in his sides
Well, I have lashed about me at abuses, in my time
I dare say you have, Dick
Just so
and I made enemies enough to fetter me now.
I do not mean that I have done right -- I have not; but there is a good
deal on my hands, and I don't write easily. I have been slower to take
up new matters than I ought to have been
I see, I see
but must Cocksmoor be left to its fate, and your gallant daughter to
hers
The vicar won't stir. He is indolent enough by nature, and worse with
gout; and I do not see what good I could do. I once offended the tenant,
Nicolson, by fining him for cheating his unhappy labourers, on the
abominable truck system; and he had rather poison me than do anything to
oblige me. And, as to the copyholder, he is a fine gentleman, who never
comes near the place, nor does anything for it
Who is he
Sir Henry Walkinghame
Sir Henry Walkinghame! I know the man. I found him in one of the caves
at Thebes, among the mummies, laid up with a fever, nearly ready to be
a mummy himself! I remember bleeding him -- irregular, was not it? but one
does not stand on ceremony in Pharaoh's tomb. I got him through with
it; we came up the Nile together, and the last I saw of him was at
Alexandria. He is your man! something might be done with him
I believe Flora promises to ask him if she should ever meet him in
London, but he is always away. If ever we should be happy enough to get
an active incumbent, we shall have a chance
No thank you
But I am going to
Cocksmoor
Will you allow me to be your companion
I shall be very glad of the pleasure of your company, but I am not in
the least afraid of going alone
I forewarn you though that
I have business there
I will find occupation
And you must promise not to turn against me. I have undergone a great
deal already about that place. Norman was always preaching against it,
and now that he has become reasonable, I can't have papa set against it
again -- besides, he would mind you more
lions in the path
If you could get the land granted, where should you choose to have it
You know it will not do to go and say, 'Be pleased to give me
a piece of land,' without specifying what, or you might chance to have
one at the Land's End
I see, that was one of the blunders
But I had often
thought of this nice little square place, between two gardens, and
sheltered by the old quarry
Ha! hardly space enough, I should say
No, that won't do, so confined by the quarry. Let us look
farther
What do you think of this
It is of no use to do it at
twice. Your school can be only the first step towards a church, and you
had better have room -- enough at once. It will serve as an endowment in
the meantime
Now, I know all about it. I shall pack up my
goods, and be off for Vienna to-morrow
To Vienna
I am coming back
if you will have me. The college holds a
court at Fordholm on the 3rd, and on the last of this month, I hope to
return
College! Court! What are you going to do at Vienna? Where have you left
your senses
I find Sir Henry Walkinghame is there. I have been on an exploring
expedition to Drydale, found out his man of business, and where he is to
be written to. The college holds a court at Fordholm, and I hope to have
our business settled
Plenty of time
No news
from the Alcestis
Have I encountered Rajahs,
and smoked pipes with three-tailed Pachas, that I should dread the face
of the father of quarrymen
The land must be put into the hands of trustees
The
incumbent of course
Then yourself; and we must have another. Your son-in-law
You, I should think
I! Why, I am going
Going, but not gone
I must go! I tell you, Dick; I must have a place of my own to smoke my
pipe in
Is that all
I think you might be accommodated here,
unless you wished to be near your sister
My sister is always resorting to watering-places. My nieces do nothing
but play on the piano. No, I shall perhaps go off to America, the only
place I have not seen yet, and I more than half engaged to go and help
at Poonshedagore
Better order your coffin then
I shall try lodgings in London, near the old hospital, perhaps -- and go
and turn over the British Museum library
Look you here, Spencer, I have a much better plan. Do you know that
scrap of a house of mine, by the back gate, just big enough for you
and your pipe? Set up your staff there. Ethel will never get her school
built without you
Oh! that would be capital
It would be the best speculation for me. You would pay rent, and the
last old woman never did
A garden the length of
this one
But I say -- I want to be near the British Museum
Take a season-ticket, and run up once a week
I shall teach your boys to smoke
I'll see to that
You have given Cocksmoor one lift
and it will never go
on without you
It is such a nice house
it would be
such fun to have you there
Daisy will never be able to spare her other doctor
Run to Mrs. Adams, Tom, and get the key
Now, indeed, you must not disappoint us all
No
it is a settled thing
No, no, thanks, thanks to you all, but it cannot be. Let me go
You are very kind, but it is not to be thought of
Why not
Spencer, stay with me
Why should you go
It is of no use to talk about it. You are very kind, but it will not do
to encumber you with a lone man, growing old
We have been young together
And you must not leave papa
No
Trouble may be at hand. Help us through with it.
Remember, these children have no uncles
You will stay
Ah
what do you know about jackdaws' nests? You
that are no Whichcote scholars
Don't we
when there is a jackdaw's nest in Eton
Chapel, twenty feet high
Old Grey made that
Why, there is a picture of it on Jesse's book
But may not we get up on the roof, to see if we can get at the nest,
papa
You must ask Dr. Spencer. It is his house
Ah! I'm not a physician unattached, like him
Hullo! have you got up, Tom? There's a door up there. I'll show you
No, don't papa. Think of Mrs. Ledwich; and asking her to see two
trustees up there
Ah! Mrs. Ledwich; what is to be done with her, Ethel
I am sure I can't tell. If Flora were but at home, she would manage
it
Spencer can manage anything
That was the happiest
chance imaginable that you came home with me, and so we came to go by
the same train
There's nothing for it but for Aubrey to go to school
Ay, to Stoneborough
Will the other eight ladies
that's the point
Ha, Spencer! you did not know what you were undertaking. Do you wish to
be let off
Not I
Come, Ethel, let us hear what
should be done
There's no time
The court will be only on
the day after to-morrow
Ample time
What we have to do is this. The ladies to be
propitiated are
Nine Muses, to whom you will have to act Apollo
One and two, Ethel, and Mrs. Rivers
Rather eight and nine
though Flora may be somebody now
Seven then
Well then, Ethel, suppose we set out
on our travels this afternoon. Visit these ladies, get them to call a
meeting to-morrow, and sanction their three trustees
You little know what a work it is to call a meeting, or how many notes
Miss Rich sends out before one can be accomplished
Faint heart -- you know the proverb, Ethel. Allons. I'll call on Mrs.
Ledwich
Stay
Let Ethel do that, and ask her to tea, and we
will show her your drawing of the school
would be such an acquisition
Well
I think we have fixed them off -- have not we
Yes; but is it not heartless that everything should be done through so
much nonsense
Did you ever hear why the spire of Ulm Cathedral was never finished
No; why not
Because the citizens would accept no help from their neighbours
I am glad enough of help when it comes in the right way, and from good
motives
There are more good motives in the world than you give people credit
for, Ethel. You have a good father, good sense, and a good education;
and you have some perception of the system by which things like this
should be done. Unfortunately, the system is in bad hands here, and
these good ladies have been left to work for themselves, and it is no
wonder that there is plenty of little self-importance, nonsense, and the
like, among them; but for their own sakes we should rather show them the
way, than throw them overboard
If they will be shown
I can't say they seemed to me so very formidable
Gentle little women
Oh! it is only Mrs. Ledwich that stirs them up. I hope you are prepared
for that encounter
You will get on now, Ethel
Never fear but
that he will get the Ladies' Committee well in hand
Why do you think so, papa
Never you fear
To think of that one week at Oxford having so entirely turned this head
of mine
county families
much younger than Dr. May
Very clever, but an
old world man
He has made up his bundle of prejudices
Clever sort of lad
a cool hand, but very
shallow
You are a very unselfish father
I cannot imagine you
without your little fairy
It would be hard to part
yet I should be
relieved to see her in good hands, so pretty and engaging as she is, and
something of an heiress. With our dear Flora, she is secure of a happy
home when I am gone, but still I should be glad to have seen
She is so sensible, that we shall see her make a good choice
that is, if she choose at all, for I do not know who is
worthy of her
I am quite indifferent as to fortune
She will
have enough of her own
Enough not to be dependent, which is the point
though
I should have few fears for her any way
It would be a comfort
if she were only safe with a man
who knew how to value her and make her happy. Such a young man as your
Norman, now -- I have often thought
She
is the brightest little creature under the sun, and the sparkle is down
so deep within, that however it may turn out, I should never fear for
her happiness
Flora is my great reliance
Her aunt, Lady
Leonora, is very kind, but somehow she does not seem to suit with Meta
Oh, ho
have you made that discovery, my good
friend
Stop, Hector, let
me out here -- thank you
The carriage from the Grange, sir; Miss Rivers would be much
obliged if you would come directly
There
Poor little Meta
This will never do
DEAR E.--,

"I believe this attack will be the last. Come to Meta, and bring my
things.                                        R. M
Dear Ethel, you must calm yourself, or you will not be of use
I? I can't be of any use! Oh, if you could go! If Flora were but here!
But I must go, Margaret
I will put up your father's things
The carriage cannot be ready in a moment, so that there will be
full time
How kind of you, dear Ethel
Papa sent for me
He is so kind! Can Margaret spare you
Oh, yes; but you must leave me. You must want to be with him
He never lets me come in when he has these attacks
If he
only would! But will you come up to my room? That is nearer
Is papa with him
Yes
How is he? May I go to him
Not now, my dear
Yes, my
dear, the struggle is over
Thank Heaven, it has been shorter, and less painful, than I had dared
to hope
Oh! why did you not call me
I could not. He would not let me. His last conscious word to me was not
to let you see him suffer
I should like to go to bed
Right -- the best thing
Go
with her, but don't try to rouse her -- don't talk to her. Come back to
me, presently
No, no, thank you -- the dark and alone. Good-night
And how is the poor little dear
The same
I can't bear to leave her alone, and to have
said nothing to comfort her
It is too soon as yet
her mind has not taken it in. I
hope she will sleep all night, and have more strength to look at it when
she wakens
She was utterly unprepared
I could not make her understand me
And, oh, papa, what a pity she was not there
It was no sight for her, till the last few minutes; and his whole mind
seemed bent on sparing her. What tenderness it has been
Must we leave her to herself all night
Better so
She has been used to loneliness; and to
thrust companionship on her would be only harassing
I used to try to force consolation on people
but I
know, now, that it can only be done by following their bent
You have seen so many sorrows
I never understood till I felt
Those few first days
were a lesson
I did not think you knew what was passing
I doubt whether any part of my life is more distinctly before me than
those two days
Flora coming in and out, and poor Alan
sitting by me; but I don't believe I had any will. I could no more have
moved my mind than my broken arm; and I verily think, Ethel, that, but
for that merciful torpor, I should have been frantic. It taught me never
to disturb grief
And what shall we do
You must stay with her till Flora comes. I will be here as much as I
can. She is our charge, till they come home. I told him, between the
spasms, that I had sent for you, and he seemed pleased
If only I were anybody else
Cannot we help you
I don't know. Thank you. But, Dr. May, I must not keep you from other
people
I have no one to go to this morning
I am ready to stay
with you, my dear
Thank you
Now tell me
Thank you, for it
all. Dear papa
She has learned to dwell apart
How beautiful she bears up
It has been a life which, as she has used it, has taught her strength
and self-dependence in the midst of prosperity
Yes
she has trained herself by her dread of
self-indulgence, and seeking after work. But oh! what a break up it is
for her! I cannot think how she holds up. Shall I go to her
I think not. She knows the way to the only Comforter. I am not afraid
of her after those blessed tears
How is she
As good and sweet as she can be
I thought you would come -- he was so fond of you
There is so much to be thankful for
He has
been spared so much of the suffering Dr. May feared for him; and he was
so happy about George
Oh, Norman, these things are no mirage
It is the world that is the mirage
May I come back to-morrow
Why -- yes -- I think you may. No, no
I
think you had better not
And I think Norman's coming did her a great deal of good
Ha! yes
She thinks so much of Mr. Rivers having been fond of him
Yes
he was. I find, in glancing over the will,
which was newly made on Flora's marriage, that he has remembered
Norman -- left him &pound;100 and his portfolio of prints by Raffaelle
Has he, indeed?-- how very kind, how much Norman will value it
It is remarkable
You know, Ethel, this must be
as if it never had been mentioned
What! you will not tell Norman
No, certainly not, unless I see strong cause. They are very fond of
each other, certainly, but they don't know, and I don't know, whether it
is not like brother and sister. I would not have either of them guess
at this, or feel bound in any way. Why, Ethel, she has thirty thousand
pounds, and I don't know how much more
Thirty thousand
It would open a great prospect
with
Norman's talents, and such a lift as that, he might be one of the first
men in England, provided he had nerve and hardness enough, which I
doubt
He would not care for it
No; but the field of usefulness; but what an old fool I am, after all
my resolutions not to be ambitious for that boy; to be set a-going by
such a thing as this! Still Norman is something out of the common way. I
wonder what Spencer thinks of him
And you never mean them to hear of it
If they settle it for themselves
that sanction will
come in to give double value to mine; or if I should see poor Norman
hesitating as to the inequality, I might smooth the way; but you see,
Ethel, this puts us in a most delicate situation towards this pretty
little creature. What her father wanted was only to guard her from
fortune-hunters, and if she should marry suitably elsewhere -- why, we
will be contented
I don't think I should be
She is the most winning of humming-birds, and what we see of her now,
gives one double confidence in her. She is so far from the petted,
helpless girl that he, poor man, would fain have made her! And she has
a bright, brave temper and elastic spirits that would be the very thing
for him, poor boy, with that morbid sensitiveness -- he would not hurt
her, and she would brighten him. It would be a very pretty thing -- but we
must never think about it again
If we can help it
Ah! I am sorry I have put it into your head too. We shall not so easily
be unconscious now, when they talk about each other in the innocent way
they do. We have had a lesson against being pleased at match-making
You shall not lose your Cocksmoor
income, Ethel
I had never thought of that. You have taken no fees here since we have
been all one family
Well, he has been good enough to leave me &pound;500, and Cocksmoor can have
the interest, if you like
Oh, thank you, papa
It is only its due, for I suppose that is for attendance. Personally,
to myself, he has left that beautiful Claude which he knew I admired so
much. He has been very kind! But, after all, we ought not to be talking
of all this -- I should not have known it, if I had not been forced to
read the will. Well, so we are in Flora's house, Ethel! I wonder how
poor dear little Meta will feel the being a guest here, instead of the
mistress. I wish that boy were three or four years older! I should
like to take her straight home with us -- I should like to have her for a
daughter. I shall always look on her as one
As a Daisy
Don't talk of it
this is no time for such
things. After all, I am glad that the funeral is not here -- Flora and
Meta might be rather overwhelmed with these three incongruous sets of
relations. By their letters, those Riverses must be quite as queer a
lot as George's relations. After all, if we have nothing else, Ethel, we
have the best of it, in regard to such relations as we have
There is Lord Cosham
Yes, he is Meta's guardian, as well as her brother; but he could not
have her to live with him. She must depend upon Flora. But we shall
see
Yes, I should have been so sorry you had been over-tired. I was quite
well off
And you must look on us as your home
How can she
This is taking possession, and making
Meta a guest already
Did I tell you, Ethel, that he desired to be remembered to you
Yes, you said so
What has Coralie done with it
She must have put it away with my brooches. Oh, no, here
it is. I had been looking for Cairngorm specimens in a shop, saying I
wanted a brooch that you would wear, when Norman Ogilvie came riding
after the carriage, looking quite hot and eager. He had been to some
other place, and hunted this one up. Is it not a beauty
The
Glenbracken badge, you know
Was not it meant for
you
It was to oblige me, if you choose so to regard it
He gave me no injunctions; but, you see, you must wear it now.
I shall not wear coloured brooches for a year
Then it is your present, Flora
If you like better to call it so, my dear. I find Norman Ogilvie is
going abroad in a few months. I think we ought to ask him here on his
way
Flora, I wish you would not talk about such things
Do you really and truly, Ethel
Certainly not, at such a time as this
Shall I say you like the brooch, Ethel
Say what is proper
You know what I mean, in
the fullest sense of the word
Do I
I mean
that you may say, simply and rationally, that I
like the thing, but I won't have it said as a message, or that I take it
as his present
Very well
the whole affair is simple enough, if you
would not be so conscious, my dear
Flora, I can't stand your calling me my dear
I am very much obliged to you
Flora, I beg your pardon; I did not mean to be cross, only please don't
begin about that; indeed, I think you had better leave out about the
brooch altogether. No one will wonder at your passing it over in such a
return as this
You are right
Do you
think it would be wrong for me to cross the park to see that little
burned girl, as Mr. Wilmot is away to-day, and she has no one to go to
her
Well! I think there is quite as
much sweetness as sadness in this evening
Because of this calm autumn sunset beauty
Look at the
golden light coming in under the branches of the trees
Yes
one cannot help thinking how much more beautiful it
must be
It is odd
it is seeing other people
that makes one know it is all sad and altered -- it seems so bewildering,
though they are so kind
I know what you mean
One ought not to wish it to go on, because there are other people and
other duties
but quietness is so peaceful. Do you know,
Ethel, I shall always think of those two first days, before anybody
came, with you and Dr. May, as something very -- very -- precious
I am sure I shall
I don't know how it is, but there is something even in this affliction
that makes it like -- a strange sort of happiness
I know what it is
That He is so very good
Yes
It does make one feel more confidence
It is good for me to have been in trouble
Yes
I hope it is not wrong or unkind in me to feel it,
for I think dear papa would wish it; but I do not feel as if -- miss him
always as I shall -- the spring of life were gone from me. I don't think
it can, for I know no more pain or trouble can reach him, and there
is -- don't you think, Ethel, that I may think so?-- especial care for the
orphan, like a compensation. And there is hope, and work here. And I am
very thankful! How much worse it would have been, if George had not been
married! Dear Flora! Will you tell her, Ethel, how really I do wish her
to take the command of me? Tell her it will be the greatest kindness in
the world to make me useful to her
I will
And please tell her that I am afraid I may forget, and take upon me, as
if I were still lady of the house. Tell her I do not mean it, and I hope
that she will check it
I think there is no fear of her forgetting that
I hope I shall not
If I do, I shall drive myself away to
stay with Aunt Leonora, and I don't want to do that at all. So please
to make Flora understand that she is head, and I am ready to be hand and
foot
You won't go, Meta
It would be a horrid nuisance to part
with you
As long as you think so, dear George. When I am in your way, or
Flora's
That will never be! I say, Flora, will she ever be in our way
No, indeed! Meta and I understand that
Well,
I suppose Bruce can't be trusted to value the books and prints
Certainly, except Lord
Cosham, I never saw such an unpresentable crew as their relations. You
should have heard the boys afterwards! There was Master Tom turning up
his Eton nose at them, and pronouncing that there never were such a
set of snobs, and Norman taking him to task as I never heard him do
before -- telling him that he would never have urged his going to Eton,
if he had thought it would make him despise respectable folks, probably
better than himself, and that this was the last time in the world for
such observations -- whereat poor Tommy was quite annihilated; for a word
from Norman goes further with him than a lecture from any one else
Well, I think Norman was right as to the unfitness of the time
So he was. But we had a good deal of them, waiting in the inn parlour.
People make incongruities when they will have such things done in state.
It could not be helped here, to be sure; but I always feel, at a grand
undertaker's display like this, that, except the service itself, there
is little to give peace or soothing. I hate what makes a talk! Better be
little folk
One would rather think of our own dear cloister, and those who cared so
much
Ah! you were happy to be there
But it all comes to the
same
One may sleep sound without the lullaby
and the
waves
Oh! don't, papa. You don't give up hope
I believe we ought, Ethel. Don't tell her, but I went to the Admirality
to-day
And what did you hear there
Great cause for fear -- but they do not give up. My poor Margaret! But
those stars tell us they are in the same Hand
Oh, Norman, are you come already
Yes, I came away directly after collections. How are you, Margaret
Pretty brave, thank you
How is Flora
Going on beautifully, except that papa thinks she does too much in
every way. She declares that she shall bring the baby to show me in
another week, but I don't think it will be allowed
And the little lady prospers
Capitally, though I get rather contradictory reports of her. First,
papa declared her something surpassing -- exactly like Flora, and so I
suppose she is; but Ethel and Meta will say nothing for her beauty, and
Blanche calls her a fright. But papa is her devoted admirer -- he does so
enjoy having a sort of property again in a baby
And George Rivers
Poor George! he is very proud of her in his own way. He has just been
here with a note from Flora, and actually talked! Between her and the
election, he is wonderfully brilliant
The election? Has Mr. Esdaile resigned
Have you not heard? He intends it, and George himself is going to
stand. The only danger is that Sir Henry Walkinghame should think of
it
Rivers in Parliament! Well, sound men are wanted
Fancy Flora, our member's wife. How well she will become her position
How soon is it likely to be
Quickly, I fancy. Dr. Spencer, who knows all kinds of news (papa says
he makes a scientific study of gossip, as a new branch of comparative
anatomy), found out from the Clevelands that Mr. Esdaile meant to
retire, and happened to mention it the last time that Flora came to see
me. It was like firing a train. You would have wondered to see how it
excited her, who usually shows her feelings so little. She has been so
much occupied with it, and so anxious that George should be ready to
take the field at once, that papa was afraid of its hurting her, and
Ethel comes home declaring that the election is more to her than her
baby
Ethel is apt to be a little hard on Flora. They are too unlike to
understand each other
Ethel is to be godmother though, and Flora means to ask Mr. Ogilvie to
come and stand
I think he will be gone abroad, or I should have asked him to fulfil
his old promise of coming to us
I believe he must be lodged here, if he should come. Flora will have
her house full, for Lady Leonora is coming. The baby is to be called
after her
Indeed
Yes; I thought it unnecessary, as she is not George's aunt, but Flora
is grateful to her for much kindness, and she is coming to see Meta. I
am afraid papa is a little hurt, that any name but one should have been
chosen
Has Meta been comfortable
Dear little thing! Every one says how beautifully she has behaved. She
brought all her housekeeping books to Flora at once, and only begged to
be made helpful in whatever way might be most convenient. She explained,
what we never knew before, how she had the young maids in to read with
her, and asked leave to go on. Very few could have been set aside so
simply and sweetly in their own house
Flora was sensible of it, I hope
Oh, yes. She took the management of course, but Meta is charmed with
her having the girls in from the village, in turn, to help in the
scullery. They have begun family prayers too, and George makes the
stablemen go to church -- a matter which had been past Meta, as you may
guess, though she had been a wonderful little manager, and Flora owned
herself quite astonished
I wonder only at her being astonished
Meta owned to Ethel that what had been worst of all to her was the
heart sinking, at finding herself able to choose her occupations, with
no one to accommodate them to. But she would not give way -- she set up
more work for herself at the school, and has been talking of giving
singing lessons at Cocksmoor; and she forced herself to read, though it
was an effort. She has been very happy lately in nursing Flora
Is Ethel there
No; she is, as usual, at Cocksmoor. There are great councils about
sending Cherry to be trained for her new school
Would Flora be able to see me, if I were to ride over to the Grange
You may try; and, if papa is not there, I dare say she will
At least, I shall see Meta, and she may judge. I want to see Rivers
too, so I will ask if the bay is to be had. Ah! you have the Claude, I
see
Yes, it is too large for this room; but papa put it here that I might
enjoy it, and it is almost a companion. The sky improves so in the
sunset light
Norman, how kind to come to me the first thing
Margaret encouraged me to try whether you would be visible
They want to make a regular prisoner of me
Papa is as bad as the old nurse! But he has not been here to-day, so I
have had my own way. Did you meet George
No; but Margaret said he had been with her
I wish he would come. We expect the second post to bring the news that
Mr. Esdaile has accepted the Chiltern Hundreds. If he found it so, he
meant to go and talk to Mr. Bramshaw; for, though he is so dull, we must
make him agent
Is there any danger of opposition
None at all, if we are soon enough in the field. Papa's name will
secure us, and there is no one else on the right side to come forward,
so that it is an absolute rescue of the seat
It is the very moment when men of principle are most wanted
The questions of the day are no light matters; and it is an
immense point to save Stoneborough from being represented by one of the
Tomkins' set
Exactly so
I should feel it a crime to say one word to
deter George, at a time when every effort must be made to support the
right cause. One must make sacrifices when the highest interests are at
stake
Give it
I have been very disrespectful to my niece all this time
I do not mean to inflict her mercilessly on her relations
but I should like you to see her. She is so like Blanche
Not yet
Why can't you sit in the dark, and give yourself a
little rest
I want you to hear George's address. Norman has been looking at it, and
I hope you will not think it too strong
Let me see
This is a rough copy, too much scratched for you to make out
I will copy it fairly
if you will show it to Dr. Spencer, and ask whether he thinks
it too strong. Mr. Dodsley too; he would be more gratified if he saw it
first, in private, and thought himself consulted
Flora, my dear
this must not be. Have I not told you that
you must be content to rest
I did not get up till ten o'clock, and have been lying here ever
since
But what has this head of yours been doing? Has it been resting for ten
minutes together? Now I know what I am saying, Flora -- I warn you, that
if you will not give yourself needful quiet now, you will suffer for it
by and by
I thought I had been very good. But, what is to
be done when one's wits will work, and there is work for them to do
Is not there work enough for them here
Your mother used to value such a retirement from care
Mr. Esdaile should have
put off his resignation to suit me. It is an unfortunate time for the
election
And you can't let the election alone
My dear, if the election cannot go on without you, it had better not go
on at all
My dear
I know you desire to be of
use, especially to George; but do you not believe that he would rather
fail, than that you, or his child, should suffer
Does he stand by his own wish, or yours, Flora
He wishes it. It is his duty
I can say no more, except to beg him not to let you exert yourself
Rivers for ever
Rivers for ever
So she brought the baby
I should have thought she
would not have taken her out before her christening
Ethel
permit me to make a suggestion. When
relations live in the same neighbourhood, there is no phrase to be more
avoided than 'I should have thought
Rivers for ever
Jack among the maidens
A fine coming-out for you, little lady
If it was good luck for you to make your
first step in life upwards, what is this
Excelsior
May it be the right excelsior
Dear Miss Ethel, you understand so perfectly. There is no one like
you
Miss Bracy! Miss
Bracy! I can't have you sentimental. I am the worst person in the world
for it
I have offended. You cannot feel with me
Yes, I can, when it is sense; but please don't treat me like a heroine.
I am sure there is quite enough in the world that is worrying, without
picking shades of manner to pieces. It is the sure way to make an old
crab of me, and so I am going off. Only, one parting piece of advice,
Miss Bracy -- read 'Frank Fairlegh', and put everybody out of your head
The vain pomp and glory of the world, and all
covetous desires of the same
I pray not
that Thou wouldest take them out of the world, but that Thou wouldest
keep them from the evil
Keep her from the evil -- that shall be my prayer for my poor little
Leonora. His grace can save her, were the surrounding evil far worse
than ever it is likely to be. The intermixture with good is the trial,
and is it not so everywhere -- ever since the world and the Church have
seemed fused together? But she will soon be the child of a Father who
guards His own; and, at least, I can pray for her, and her dear mother.
May I only live better, that so I may pray better, and act better, if
ever I should have to act
A very superior person, extremely pleasing and
agreeable
Ethel, can you come and speak to me
Go!
go, Ethel
don't keep me waiting
Is it
Both
Both
The ship burned -- the boat lost
Ethel, come
Take it
I will
wait
Oh, Margaret, Margaret
I did not write the letter
What letter
Richard prevented me. The letter that would have parted us. Now all is
well
All is well, I know, if we could but feel it
He never had the pain. It is unbroken
Thank you
Where is your father
Either at the hospital, or at Mr. Ramsden's
Papa
If he were but here! But -- ah! I had forgotten
This is a more natural state
Don't be afraid
for her. I will find your father, and bring him home
oh! no! no
Go to him
You know it
Dr. Spencer told us. Did not you meet him
No. I read it at Bramshaw's office. How
Quiet. Like herself. Come
How much
there is to be thankful for
Papa, you must forgive me. You said sending him to sea was giving him
up
Did I. Well, Margaret, he did his duty. That is all we have to live
for. Our yellow-haired laddie made a gallant sailor, and
It falls hard on you, my poor girl
No, papa
I am content and thankful. He is spared pain
and perplexity
You are right, I believe
He would have been grieved
not to find you better
I ought to grieve for my own selfishness
I cannot
help it! I cannot be sorry the link is unbroken, and that he had not to
turn to any one else
He never would
I tried to think he ought
His life would have been
too dreary. But it is best as it is
It must be
Where are the rest, Ethel? Call them all
down
Dear Miss Ethel! if you can only let me help you
Thank you
Mary, my dear
you have a photograph
I am only come to know where I shall go for you
Thank you, Spencer. Thank you for taking care of my poor girls
They took care of themselves. They have the secret of strength
They have
Oh, Spencer! you have
been spared a great deal. If you missed a great deal of joy, you have
missed almost as much sorrow
Dick! dear old Dick, you must bear up. Think what treasures you have
left
I do. I try to do so
but, Spencer, you never saw
my yellow-haired laddie, with his lion look! He was the flower of them
all! Not one of these other boys came near him in manliness, and with
such a loving heart! An hour ago, I thought any certainty would be gain,
but now I would give a lifetime to have back the hope that I might see
my boy's face again! Oh, Spencer! this is the first time I could rejoice
that his mother is not here
She would have been your comforter
There, I can be thankful
She has
had her brave loving boy with her all this time, while we little
thought -- but there are others. My poor Margaret
Her patience must be blessed
I think she will be
better. Now that the suspense no longer preys on her, there will be more
rest
Rest
there remaineth a rest
If I only knew where dear, dear Harry is lying
and that it had not been very bad indeed, I could bear it better
Mary
that is the worst; but, after all, God willed that
we should not know. We must bear it like His good children. It makes no
differences to them now
I know
And, you know, we are all in the same keeping. The sea is a glorious
great pure thing, you know, that man cannot hurt or defile. It seems to
me
as if resting there was like being buried
in our baptism-tide over again, till the great new birth. It must be the
next best place to a churchyard. Anywhere, they are as safe as among the
daisies in our own cloister
Say it again -- what you said about the sea
Poor Mary
is she so fond of it? It
is rather a libel than a likeness
Don't say so to her, pray, papa. It is all the world to her. Three
strokes on paper would have been the same, if they had been called by
his name
Yes; a loving heart has eyes of its own, and she is a dear girl
It is exactly like
It can't help being so, in a certain sense
but
after all, Mary dear, he did not pout out his chin in that way
People in former times had
not so high an estimate of pastoral duty -- poor Mr. Ramsden had not much
education -- he was already old when better times came in -- he might have
done better in a less difficult parish with better laity to support him,
etc
Better have my Harry's seventeen years than his sixty-seven
Better improve a talent than lay it by
Hush! Ethel. How do you know what he may have done? If he acted up to
his own standard, he did more than most of us
Which is best
a high standard, not acted up to, or a
lower one fulfilled
I think it depends on the will
Some people are angry with those whose example would show that there is
a higher standard
And
some who have the high one set before them
content themselves with knowing that it cannot be fully attained, and
will not try
The standard is the effect of early impression
I
should be very sorry to think it could not be raised
Faithful in a little
I suppose all good people's
standard is always going higher
As they comprehend more of absolute perfection
I see
it is all right
They were going to have made a very absurd choice
But you prevented it? Who was it
Ah! I told you Master Ritchie was turning out a popular preacher
You don't mean that they chose Richard
As sure as my name is Dick May, they did, every man of them, except
Tomkins, and even he held his tongue; I did not think it of them
but there is much more goodness of heart
in the world than one gives it credit for
But it was Richard's own doing
Those sermons made a
great impression, and they love the boy, because he has grown up among
them. The old mayor waddled up to me, as I came in, telling me that they
had been talking it over, and they were unanimously agreed that they
could not have a parson they should like better than Mr. Richard
Good old Mr. Doddesley! I can see him
I expected it so little, that I thought he meant some Richards; but no,
he said Mr. Richard May, if he had nothing better in view -- they liked
him, and knew he was a very steady, good young gentleman, and if he took
after his fathers that went before him -- and they thought we might like
to have him settled near
How very kind
We shall love our
own townsfolk better than ever
I always told you so, if you would but believe it. They have warm,
sound hearts, every one of them! I declare, I did not know which way to
look, I was so sorry to disappoint them
Disappoint them
I was thinking
I do not believe Richard would think
himself equal to this place in such a state as it is. He is so
diffident
Yes
if he were ten or twelve years older, it would be
another thing; but here, where everything is to be done, he would not
bring weight or force enough. He would only work himself to death, for
individuals, without going to the root. Margaret, my darling, I am very
sorry to have disappointed you so much -- it would have been as great a
pleasure as we could have had in this world to have the lad here
And Cocksmoor
I shall be grateful all my life to those good people for thinking of
it
but look you here, it was my business to get
the best man chosen in my power and, though as to goodness, I
believe the dear Ritchie has not many equals; I don't think we can
conscientiously say he would be, at present, the best vicar for
Stoneborough
Besides
after having staved off the sale of the
presentation as a sin, it would hardly have been handsome to have let
my own son profit by it. It would have seemed as if we had our private
ends, when Richard helped poor old Mr. Ramsden
I was sure of it. The poor fellow would have been perplexed between the
right and consideration for us. A vicar here ought to carry things with
a high hand, and that is hardest to do at a man's own home, especially
for a quiet lad like him
Yes, papa, it was quite right
it
has spared Richard a great deal
But are we to have Mr. Wilmot
Think of our not having
heard
Ay. If they would not have had Wilmot, or a man of his calibre, perhaps
I might have let them offer it to Richard. I almost wish I had. With
help, and Ethel
No, no, papa
You are making me angry with myself for
my folly. It is much better for Richard himself, and for us all, as well
as the town. Think how long we have wished for Mr. Wilmot
He will be in time for the opening of Cocksmoor school
How did you manage it
I did not manage at all
I told them exactly my
mind, that Richard was not old enough for such arduous work; and though
no words could tell how obliged I was, if they asked me who was the best
man for it I knew, I should say Edward Wilmot, and I thought he deserved
something from us, for the work he did gratis, when he was second
master. Tomkins growled a little, but, fortunately, no one was prepared
with another proposal, so they all came round, and the mayor is to write
by this evening's post, and so shall I. If we could only have given
Richard a dozen more years
Well, Ethel, how is Cocksmoor? How like old times
Oh
we are so glad you will see the beginning of the
school
I hear you are finishing Cherry Elwood, too
Much against Ethel's will
but we thought Cherry not
easily spoiled. And Whitford school seems to be in very good order. Dr.
Spencer went and had an inspection of it, and conferred with all the
authorities
Ah! we have a jewel of a parishioner for you
I have
some hopes of Stoneborough now
Polly grew up quite civilised
She lives at Whitford,
with some very respectable people, and sends granny presents, which make
her merrier than ever. Last time it was a bonnet, and Jenny persuaded
her to go to church in it, though, she said, what she called the moon of
it was too small
How do the people go on
I cannot say much for them. It is disheartening. We really have done
nothing. So very few go to church regularly
None at all went in my time
Elwood always goes
and Taylor; yes, and Sam Hall, very
often, and many of the women, in the evening, because they like to walk
home with the children
The children? the Sunday scholars
Oh, every one that is big enough comes to school now, here, on Sunday.
If only the teaching were better
Have you sent out any more pupils to service
Not many. There is Willie Brown, trying to be Dr. Spencer's little
groom
But I am afraid it will take a great deal of the doctor's patience to
train him
It is hard
He did it purely to oblige Ethel; and, I
tell her, when he lames the pony, I shall expect her to buy another for
him, out of the Cocksmoor funds
There was Ben Wheeler
who went to work in the quarries;
and the men could not teach him to say bad words, because the young
ladies told him not
The young ladies have not quite done nothing
These are only little stray things, and Cherry has done the chief of
them
Oh, it is grievously bad still
Such want of truth, such ungoverned tongues and tempers, such
godlessness altogether! It is only surface-work, taming the children at
school, while they have such homes; and their parents, even if they do
come where they might learn better, are always liable to be upset, as
they call it -- turned out of their places in church, and they will not
run the chance
The church must come to them
Could the school be
made fit to be licensed for service
Ask our architect
There can be little doubt
I have been settling that I must have a curate specially for
Cocksmoor
Can you tell me of one, Ethel -- or perhaps
Margaret could
Seriously
do you think Richard
would come and help us here
This seems to be his destiny
only it
would not be fair to tell you, lest you should be jealous -- that the Town
Council had a great mind for him
The last wish I had
dared to make is granted
doing right in her own eyes
In fact
when women have enough to do, they are
perfectly tractable
We must make Cocksmoor Harry's heir
wooden-head
Nothing can do me much good or harm now
Is it not my greatest comfort that Hector can
still treat me as his sister, or, if I can only be of any use in keeping
him patient? Only think of the danger of a boy, in his situation, being
left without sympathy
special
correspondent
George says
George thinks
long day
A fine-looking, agreeable man, about five-and-thirty
very lively and entertaining. He talked a great deal of Dr.
Spencer, and of the life in the caves at Thebes; and he asked me whether
that unfortunate place, Cocksmoor, did not owe a great deal to me, or to
one of my sisters. I left Meta to tell him that story, and they became
very sociable over it
Sir Henry Walkinghame has been dining with us. He
has a very good voice, and we had some delightful music in the evening
What would Ethel say
to have our little Meta as Lady
of the Manor of Cocksmoor? He has begun to talk about Drydale, and there
are various suspicious circumstances that Lady Leonora marks with the
eyes of a discreet dowager. It was edifying to see how, from smiles, we
came to looks, and by and by to confidential talks, which have made her
entirely forgive me for having so many tall brothers. Poor dear old Mr.
Rivers! Lady Leonora owns that it was the best thing possible for that
sweet girl that he did not live any longer to keep her in seclusion; it
is so delightful to see her appreciated as she deserves, and with her
beauty and fortune, she might make any choice she pleases. In fact, I
believe Lady Leonora would like to look still higher for her, but this
would be mere ambition, and we should be far better satisfied with such
a connection as this, founded on mutual and increasing esteem, with a
man so well suited to her, and fixing her so close to us. You must not,
however, launch out into an ocean of possibilities, for the good aunt
has only infected me with the castle-building propensities of chaperons,
and Meta is perfectly unconscious, looking on him as too hopelessly
middle-aged, to entertain any such evil designs, avowing freely that
she likes him, and treating him very nearly as she does papa. It is
my business to keep 'our aunt,' who, between ourselves, has, below the
surface, the vulgarity of nature that high-breeding cannot eradicate,
from startling the little humming-bird, before the net has been properly
twined round her bright little heart. As far as I can see, he is much
smitten, but very cautious in his approaches, and he is wise
Could nothing prevent it? Could not Flora be
told of Mr. Rivers's wishes
His wishes would have lain this way
I do not know that
It is no concern of ours. There is nothing objectionable here, and
though I can't say it is not a disappointment, it ought not to be. The
long and short of it is, that I never ought to have told you anything
about it
Poor Norman
Absurd! The lad is hardly one-and-twenty. Very few marry a first
love
Poor old Rivers only mentioned it as a refuge from
fortune-hunters, and it stands to reason that he would have preferred
this. Anyway, it is awkward for a man with empty pockets to marry an
heiress, and it is wholesomer for him to work for his living. Better
that it should be out of his head at once, if it were there at all. I
trust it was all our fancy. I would not have him grieved now for worlds,
when his heart is sore
Somehow
though he is depressed and silent, I like it
better than I did last Christmas
Of course, when we were laughing out of the bitterness of our hearts
It is a luxury to let oneself alone to be
sorrowful
I dare say
I thought you would like it better
Truth is better than fiction, certainly. But I am afraid he has a
tendency to morbid self-contemplation, and you ought to shake him out of
it
What is the difference between self-contemplation and
self-examination
The difference between your brother and yourself. Ah! you think that
no answer. Will you have a medical simile? Self-examination notes the
symptoms and combats them; self-contemplation does as I did when I was
unstrung by that illness at Poonshedagore, and was always feeling my
own pulse. It dwells on them, and perpetually deplores itself. Oh,
dear! this is no better -- what a wretch I am. It is always studying its
deformities in a moral looking-glass
Yes, I think poor Norman does that, but I thought it right and humble
The humility of a self-conscious mind. It is the very reverse of your
father, who is the most really humble man in existence
Do you call self-consciousness a fault
No. I call it a misfortune. In the vain, it leads to prudent vanity; in
the good, to a painful effort of humility
I don't think I quite understand what it is
No, and you have so much of your father in you, that you never will.
But take care of your brother, and don't let his brains work
Ethel, I have been thinking
That you have
I want to consult you. Don't you think now that Richard is settled at
home, and if Tom will study medicine, that I could be spared
Spared
You are not much at home
I meant more than my present absences. It is my earnest wish
Do you think it
would give my father too much pain to part with me as a missionary to
New Zealand
Do you think he could bear it
He would consent
Oh, Norman, it is the most glorious
thing man can do! How I wish I could go with you
Your mission is here
I know it is -- I am contented with it
but oh! Norman,
after all our talks about races and gifts, you have found the more
excellent way
Hush! Charity finds room at home, and mine are not such unmixed motives
as yours
I cannot tell you all. Some you shall hear. I am weary of this feverish
life of competition and controversy
I thought you were so happy with your fellowship. I thought Oxford was
your delight
She will always be nearer my heart than any place, save this. It is not
her fault that I am not like the simple and dutiful, who are not fretted
or perplexed
Perplexed
It is not so now
God forbid! But where better men have
been led astray, I have been bewildered; till, Ethel, I have felt as if
the ground were slipping from beneath my feet, and I have only been able
to hide my eyes, and entreat that I might know the truth
You knew it
I did, I do; but it was a time of misery when, for my presumption, I
suppose, I was allowed to doubt whether it were the truth
It is past
Yes, thank Him who is Truth. You all saved me, though you did not know
it
When was this
The worst time was before the Long Vacation. They told me I ought
to read this book and that. Harvey Anderson used to come primed with
arguments. I could always overthrow them, but when I came to glory in
doing so, perhaps I prayed less. Anyway, they left a sting. It might be
that I doubted my own sincerity, from knowing that I had got to argue,
chiefly because I liked to be looked on as a champion
I read, and I mystified myself. The better I talked, the more my own
convictions failed me; and, by the time you came up to Oxford, I knew
how you would have shrunk from him who was your pride, if you could have
seen into the secrets beneath
You seemed bright
It melted like a bad dream before -- before the humming-bird, and with my
father. It was weeks ere I dared to face the subject again
How could you? Was it safe
I could not have gone on as I was. Sometimes the sight of my father, or
the mountains and lakes in Scotland, or -- or -- things at the Grange, would
bring peace back; but there were dark hours, and I knew that there could
be no comfort till I had examined and fought it out
I suppose examination was right
for a man, and defender
of the faith. I should only have tried to pray the terrible thought
away. But I can't tell how it feels
Worse than you have power to imagine
It is
over now. I worked out their fallacies, and went over the reasoning on
our side
And prayed
Indeed I did; and the confidence returned, firmer, I hope, than ever.
It had never gone for a whole day
It was life or death
and we never
knew it
Perhaps not; but I know your prayers were angel-wings ever round me.
And far more than argument, was the thought of my father's heart-whole
Christian love and strength
Norman, you believed, all the time, with your heart. This was only a
bewilderment of your intellect
I think you are right
To me the doubt was cruel
agony -- not the amusement it seems to some
Because our dear home has made the truth, our joy, our union
And you are sure the cloud is gone, and for ever
For ever, I trust
I hold the faith of my
childhood in all its fullness as surely as -- as ever I loved my mother
and Harry
I know you do
It was only a bad dream
I hope I may be forgiven for it
I do not know how
far it was sin. It was gone so far as that my mind was convinced last
Christmas, but the shame and sting remained. I was not at peace again
till the news of this spring came, and brought, with the grief, this
compensation -- that I could cast behind me and forget the criticisms and
doubts that those miserable debates had connected with sacred words
You will be the sounder for having fought the fight
I do not dread the like shocks
but I long to leave
this world of argument and discussion. It is right that there should be
a constant defence and battle, but I am not fit for it. I argue for my
own triumph, and, in heat and harassing, devotion is lost. Besides, the
comparison of intellectual power has been my bane all my life
I thought 'praise was your penance here
I would fain render it so, but -- in short, I must be away from it all,
and go to the simplest, hardest work, beginning from the rudiments, and
forgetting subtle arguments
Forgetting yourself
Right. I want to have no leisure to think about myself
I am never so happy as at such times
And you want to find work so far away
I cannot help feeling drawn towards those southern seas. I am glad you
can give me good-speed. But what do you think about my father
I know he would not hinder you
But you dread the pain for him? I had talked to Tom about taking his
profession; but the poor boy thinks he dislikes it greatly, though, I
believe, his real taste lies that way, and his aversion only arises a
few grand notions he has picked up, out of which I could soon talk him
Tom will not stand in your place
He will be more equable and more to be depended upon
None of you appreciate Tom. However, you must hear my alternative. If
you think my going would be too much grief for papa, or if Tom be set
against helping him in his practice, there is an evident leading of
Providence, showing that I am unworthy of this work. In that case I
would go abroad and throw myself, at once, with all my might, into the
study of medicine, and get ready to give my father some rest. It is a
shame that all his sons should turn away from his profession
I am more than ever amazed
I thought you detested it. I
thought papa never wished it for you. He said you had not nerve
He was always full of the tenderest consideration for me
With Heaven to help him, a man may have nerve for whatever is his
duty
How he would like to have you to watch and help. But New Zealand would
be so glorious
Glory is not for me
Understand, Ethel, the choice is
New Zealand, or going at once -- at once, mind -- to study at Edinburgh or
Paris
New Zealand at once
I suppose I mast stay for divinity lectures, but my intention must
be avowed
And now, will you sound my father? I
cannot
I can't sound
I can only do things point-blank
Do then
any way you can! Only let me know which is best
for him. You get all the disagreeable things to do, good old unready
one
I believe you are the one who would be shoved in
front, if we were obliged to face a basilisk
Whatever you think best. I do not want to grieve him, but he must not
think it fine in me
Papa, there is something that Norman cannot
bear to say to you himself
Humming-birds to wit
No, indeed, but he wants to be doing something at once. What should you
think of -- of -- there are two things; one is -- going out as a missionary
Humming-birds in another shape
You mean to treat it as a boy's fancy
It is rather suspicious
Well, what is the other of his two
things
The other is, to begin studying medicine at once, so as to help you
Heyday
does he
think me so very ancient and superannuated
No, but he thinks it hard that none of your
sons should be willing to relieve you
It won't be Norman
He is not made of the stuff. If
he survived the course of study, every patient he lost, he would bring
himself in guilty of murder, and there would soon be an end of him
He says that a man can force himself to anything that is his duty
This is not going to be his duty, if I can make it otherwise. What is
the meaning of all this? No, I need not ask, poor boy, it is what I was
afraid of
It is far deeper
Foolish boy, what business had he to meddle with those accursed
books, when he knew what they were made of -- it was tasting poison,
it was running into temptation! He had no right to expect to come out
safe
Stop! Blanche! Blanche, don't you know me
What's the matter! Blanche, it is I! Why, don't you know me -- Harry
Poor brother Harry is drowned
Put me down -- put me down, please
It is not Blanche! What? the little Daisy, I do believe
Yes, I am Gertrude, but please let me go
Ha! Adams' how are you? Are they all well
Tisn't never Master Harry! Bless me
when we had given you up for lost
My father well
Quite well, sir, but he never held up his head since he heard it, and
poor Miss Mary has so moped about. If ever I thought to see the like
So they did not get my letter, but I can't stop. Jennings will tell
you. Take care of him. Come, Daisy
But what's that for
Because of poor Harry
Oh, that's right
He says he is Harry!
he says he is not drowned
Ethel! Mary! home! Where's papa
Mary! oh, Ethel, see
Mary, Mary dear, it is Harry! It is himself! Don't you see? Speak
to her, Harry
Mary, dear old Polly, here I am! Oh, won't you speak to me
What have I done
What's this! Who is this frightening my dear
Oh, nurse, what have I done to her
It is joy -- it is sudden joy
See, she is better now
Master Harry! Well, I never
with one wring of the hand,
retreated, while old nurse was nearly hugged to death, declaring all the
time that he didn't ought to have come in such a way, terrifying every
one out of their senses! and as for poor Miss May --

"Where is she
Only upstairs
but where's Alan? Is not he come
Oh, Ethel, don't you know
Nurse! nurse, how shall we tell her
Poor dear
She'll never abear it without her papa. Wait for him, I should
say. But bless me, Miss Mary, to see you go on like that, when Master
Harry is come back such a bonny man
I'm better now
Oh, Harry! speak to me
again
But Margaret
but Margaret. Nurse, you must go up, or she will suspect. I'll
come when I can; speak quietly. Oh! poor Margaret! If Richard would but
come in
Please, Margaret wants Harry to come up directly
Go up, Miss Ethel
Oh! nurse, I can't be the first. Come, Harry, come
Oh, if he
could only have come back to you
Thank God
Tell me how and where
It was in the Loyalty Isles; it was fever -- the exertions for us. His
head was lying here
He sent his
love to you -- he bade me tell you there would be meeting by and by, in
the haven where he would be.-- I laid his head in the grave -- under the
great palm -- I said some of the prayers -- there are Christians round it
Kiss me
Thank
you, go down, please, all of you. You have brought great relief. Thank
you. But I can't talk yet. You shall tell me the rest by and by
Go to him, dearest. Let me be alone. Don't be uneasy. This is
peace -- but go
No, don't
He entered into his chamber and
Well, Harry
No, my dear, I cannot
No, dears
I had rather you did so. You must not be
unkind to Harry. He will not think I do not welcome him. I am only too
glad that Richard would not let my impatience take away my right to wear
this
How can you
be so silly? Come away
I can't think what's the use of Harry's coming home
It is very disagreeable
Richard! Richard! what is to be done with Mary? She can't help it, I
believe, but this is not the way to treat the mercy that
Mary had better go and lie down in her own room
Oh, please! please
I shall not see him when he comes
back
If you can't behave properly when he does come
there
is no use in being there
Remember, Ritchie
she has not been
well this long time
I am
going to church with Ritchie
What do you think of it? Shall we go, my
boy
at home
Amen
a fine-growed young man
You are much more like papa and Norman than I thought you would be
He has left his snub nose and yellow locks behind
though the shaggy mane seems to remain. I believe lions grow darker
with age. So there stand June and July together again
I shall see Flora and Tom to-morrow
Going
Why, don't you know
it is current in the nursery that
he is going to be tried by court-martial for living with the King of the
Cannibal Islands
Aubrey says he had a desert island, with Jennings for his man Friday
Harry
did you really poke out the giant's eye with the top of a fir-tree
Who told you so, Daisy
After all
I don't think our notions are much more
defined. Papa and Norman may know more, but we have heard almost
nothing. I have been waiting to hear more to close up my letters to
Flora and Tom. What a shame that has not been done
I'll finish
And tell her I'll be there to-morrow
I must report
myself; and what fun to see Flora a member of Parliament! Come with me,
June; I'll be back next day. I wish you all would come
Yes, I must come with you
I shall have to go to Oxford
on Thursday
Tell Flora I am coming,
Mary
How did you know that Flora was a married lady
I heard that from Aunt Flora. A famous lot of news I picked up there
Aunt Flora
Did you not know he had been at Auckland
Aunt Flora
had to nurse him well after all he had undergone. Did you not think her
very like mamma, Harry
Mamma never looked half so old
Flora was five years younger
She has got her voice and way with her
but you will soon
see. She is coming home soon
Yes, there is some money of Uncle Arnott's that must be looked after,
but he does not like the voyage, and can't leave his office, so perhaps
Aunt Flora may come alone. She had a great mind to come with me, but
there was no good berth for her in this schooner, and I could not wait
for another chance. I can't think what possessed the letters not to
come! She would not write by the first packet, because I was so ill, but
we both wrote by the next, and I made sure you had them, or I would have
written before I came
What was the first you knew of the fire, Harry
Owen shaking me awake; and I thought it was a hoax
But
it was true enough, and when we got on deck, there were clouds of smoke
coming up the main hatch-way
And
he
He met us, and told us to be steady -- but there was little need for
that! Every man there was as cool and collected as if it had been no
more than the cook's stove -- and we should have scorned to be otherwise!
He put his hand on my shoulder and said, 'Keep by me,' and I did
Then there was never much hope of extinguishing the fire
No; if you looked down below the forecastle it was like a furnace, and
though the pumps were at work, it was only to gain time while the boats
were lowered. The first lieutenant told off the men, and they went
down the side without one word, only shaking hands with those that were
left
Oh, Harry! what were you thinking of
Of the powder
Mr. Ernescliffe had the command of the second cutter. He asked to take
me with him; I was glad enough; and Owen -- he is mate, you know -- went
with us
Very glad to be safe out of her
If I dropped asleep at the
bottom of the boat, I was sure to find some one shading me from the sun.
If there was an extra drop of water, they wanted me to have it
Tell me their names, Harry
If ever I meet one of
them
But the storm, Harry, the storm
Was that not
terrible
Very comfortable at first, Blanche
Oh, that rain
But when it grew so very bad
We did not reck much what happened to us
It could not be
worse than starving. When we missed the others in the morning, most of
us thought them the best off
All that you can think
the very life and soul of us
all -- so kind, and yet discipline as perfect as on board. But don't now,
Margaret
Oh, Harry, Harry! I can't bear it
How long did it
last? How did it end
Fifteen days
It was time it should end, for all the
water we had caught in the storm was gone -- we gave the last drop to
Jones, for we thought him dying; one's tongue was like a dry sponge
How did it end
Jennings saw a sail. We thought it all a fancy of weakness, but 'twas
true enough, and they saw our signal of distress
There he was
laid up in a little bit of a stifling
cabin, just like an oven, without the possibility of a breath of air!
The skin-flint skipper carried no medicine; the water -- shocking stuff it
was -- was getting so low, that there was only a pint a day served out to
each, and though all of us Alcestes clubbed every drop we could spare
for him -- it was bad work! Owen and I never were more glad in our lives
than when we heard we were to cast anchor at the Loyalty Isles! Such a
place as it was! You little know what it was to see anything green! And
there was this isle fringed down close to the sea with cocoa-nut trees!
And the bay as clear!-- you could see every shell, and wonderful fishes
swimming in it! Well, every one was for going ashore, and some of the
natives swam out to us, and brought things in their canoes, but not
many; it is not encouraged by the mission, nor by David -- for those
Yankee traders are not the most edifying society -- and the crew vowed
they were cannibals, and had eaten a man three years ago, so they all
went ashore armed
You stayed with him
Ay, it was my turn, and I was glad enough to have some fresh fruit and
water for him, but he could not take any notice of it. Did not I want
you, papa? Well, by and by, Owen came back, in a perfect rapture
with the place and the people, and said it was the only hope for Mr.
Ernescliffe, to take him on shore
Then you did really go amongst the cannibals
That is all nonsense
Some of them may once have been,
and I fancy the heathens might not mind a bit of 'long pig' still; but
these have been converted by the Samoans
and so
I thought there was nothing for it but for me to stay
with him, and that you would say so. I got Owen to consent, after some
trouble, as we were sure to be fetched off one time or another. We said
not a word to Mr. Ernescliffe, for he was only sensible now and then, so
that Owen had the command. Owen made the skipper leave me a pistol and
some powder, but I was ashamed David should know it, and stowed it away.
As to the quarter-master, old Jennings, whose boy you remember we
picked up at the Roman camp, he had not forgotten that, and when we were
shaking hands and wishing good-bye, he leaped up, and vowed 'he would
never leave the young gentleman that had befriended his boy, to be eaten
up by them black savage niggers. If they made roast-pork of Mr. May, he
would be eaten first, though he reckoned they would find him a tougher
morsel.' I don't think Owen was sorry he volunteered, and no words can
tell what a blessing the good old fellow was to us both.

"So there we stayed, and, at first, Mr. Ernescliffe seemed mending. The
delirium went off, he could talk quite clearly and comfortably, and he
used to lie listening, when David and I had our odd sort of talks. I
believe, if you had been there, or we could have strengthened him any
way, he might have got over it; but he never thought he should, and he
used to talk to me about all of you, and said Stoneborough had been the
most blessed spot in his life; he had never had so much of a home, and
that sharing our grief, and knowing you, had done him great good, just
when he might have been getting elated. I cannot recollect it all,
though I tried hard, for Margaret's sake, but he said Hector would have
a great deal of temptation, and he hoped you would be a father to him,
and Norman an elder brother. You would not think how much he talked of
Cocksmoor, about a church being built there, as Ethel wished, and little
Daisy laying the first stone. I remember one night, I don't know whether
he was quite himself, for he looked full at me with his eyes, that had
grown so large, till I did not know what was coming, and he said, 'I
have seen a ship built by a sailor's vow; the roof was like the timbers
of a ship -- that was right. Mind, it is so. That is the ship that bears
through the waves; there is the anchor that enters within the veil.' I
believe that was what he said. I could not forget that -- he looked at me
so; but much more he said, that I dimly remember, and chiefly about poor
dear Margaret. He bade me tell her -- his own precious pearl, as he used
to call her -- that he was quite content, and believed it was best for her
and him both, that all should be thus settled, for they did not part for
ever, and he trusted -- But I can't write all that
It is too good to recollect anywhere but at
church. I have been there to-day, with my uncle and aunt, and I thought
I could have told it when I came home, but I was too tired to write
then, and now I don't seem as if it could be written anyhow. When I come
home, I will try to tell Margaret. The most part was about her; only
what was better seemed to swallow that up
For all Mr. Ernescliffe talked as I told you, he was so quiet and
happy, that I made sure he was getting well, but Jennings did not; and
there came an old heathen native once to see us, who asked why we did
not bury him alive, because he got no better, and gave trouble. At last,
one night -- it was the third of August -- he was very restless, and could
not breathe, nor lie easily; I lifted him up in my arms, for he was very
light and thin, and tried to make him more comfortable. But presently he
said, 'Is it you, Harry? God bless you;' and, in a minute, I knew he was
dead. You will tell Margaret all about it. I don't think she can love
him more than I did; and she did not half know him, for she never saw
him on board, nor in all that dreadful time, nor in his illness. She
will never know what she has lost
We buried him the next day, where one could see the sea, close under
the great palm, where David hopes to have a church one of these days.
David helped us, and said the Lord's Prayer and the Glory with us there.
I little thought, when I used to grumble at my two verses of the psalms
every day, when I should want the ninetieth, or how glad I should be to
know so many by heart, for they were such a comfort to Mr. Ernescliffe.

"David got us a nice bit of wood, and Jennings carved the cross, and
his name, and all about him. I should have liked to have done it, but I
knocked up after that. Jennings thinks I had a sun-stroke. I don't know,
but my head was so bad, whenever I moved, that I thought only Jennings
would ever have come to tell you about it. Jennings looked after me as
if I had been his own son; and there was David too, as kind as if he had
been Richard himself -- always sitting by, to bathe my forehead, or, when
I was a little better, to talk to me, and ask me questions about his
Christian teaching. You must not think of him like a savage, for he is
my friend, and a far more perfect gentleman than I ever saw any one,
but you, papa, holding the command over his people so easily and
courteously, and then coming to me with little easy first questions
about the Belief, and such things, like what we used to ask mamma. He
liked nothing so well as for me to tell him about King David; and we had
learned a good deal of each other's languages by that time. The notion
of his heart -- like Cocksmoor to Ethel -- is to get a real English mission,
and have all his people Christians. Ethel talked of good kings being
Davids to their line; I think that is what he will be, if he lives; but
those islanders have been dying off since Europeans came among them
It seemed
as if you all
were looking at me, and smiling to me in the stars. And there was
the Southern Cross upright, which was like the minster to me; and
I recollected it was Sunday morning at home, and knew you would be
thinking about me. I was so glad you had let me be confirmed, and be
with you that last Sunday, papa, for it seemed to join me on so much the
more; and when I thought of the words in church, they seemed, somehow,
to float on me so much more than ever before, and it was like the
minster, and your voice. I should not have minded dying so much after
that
They sent me below to see a hero
What I saw was a
scarecrow sort of likeness of you, dear Richard; but, when he opened his
eyes, there was our Maggie smiling at me. I suppose he would not forgive
me for telling how he sobbed and cried, when he had his arms round my
neck, and his poor aching head on my shoulder. Poor fellow, he was very
weak, and I believe he felt, for the moment, as if he had found his
mother.

"We brought him home with us, but when the next mail went, the fever was
still so high, that I thought it would be only alarm to you to write,
and I had not half a story either, though you may guess how proud I was
of my nephew
I never knew what the old Great Bear was to me till I saw him again
And you go to-morrow
I must. Jennings has to go on to Portsmouth, and see after his son
Oh, let me see Jennings
May I not, papa
My sister,
Jennings; my sister that you have heard of
Come in; come in, and see my boy among us all. Without you,
we never should have had him
Make him come to me
I could not help saying thank you
Mr. May, sir
tell them, sir, please, it was only my
duty -- I could not do no less, and you knows it, sir
We know you could not
and that is what we would thank
you for, if we could. I know he -- Mr. Ernescliffe -- must have been much
more at rest for leaving my brother with so kind a friend, and
Please, miss, don't say no more about it. Mr. Ernescliffe was as fine
an officer as ever stepped a quarter-deck, and Mr. May here won't fall
short of him; and was I to be after leaving the like of them to the
mercy of the black fellows -- that was not so bad neither? If it had only
pleased God that we had brought them both back to you, miss; but, you
see, a man can't be everything at once, and Mr. Ernescliffe was not so
stout as his heart
You did everything, we know
Twas a real pleasure
for two such real
gentlemen as they was. Mr. May, sir, I beg your pardon if I say it to
your face, never flinched, nor spoke a word of complaint, through it
all; and, as to the other
Margaret cannot bear this
It is too
much
He says he is glad he has seen Margaret; he says she is the right sort
of stuff for Mr. Ernescliffe
I wish I may be
How did you get it, Ethel? do you keep the purse
No, but papa took Cocksmoor in your stead, when
Nonsense, Ethel
I don't want it. Have I not all my
pay and allowance for the whole time I was dead? And as to robbing
Cocksmoor
Yes, keep it, Ethel
do you think I would take it
now, when if there were a thank-offering in the world.-- And, by the bye,
your Cocksmoor children must have something to remember this by
That's right, old June. There's nothing they want so much, as such as
you. How glad my aunt will be! Perhaps you will see David! Oh, if you
were to go out to the Loyalty group
Very possibly I might
Tell them you are my brother, and how they will receive you! I can see
the mop-heads they will dress in honour of you, and what a feast of pork
and yams you will have to eat! But there is plenty of work among the
Maoris for you -- they want a clergyman terribly at the next village to
my uncle's place. I say, Norman, it will go hard if I don't get a ship
bound for the Pacific, and come and see you
I shall reckon on you. That is, if I have not to stay to help my
father
To be sure
I thought you would have stayed at home,
and married little Miss Rivers
Nonsense
Well! you used to seem very much smitten, but so, to be sure, were
some of the Alcestes with the young ladies at Valparaiso. How we used to
roast Owen about that Spanish Donna, and he was as bad at Sydney about
the young lady whose father, we told him, was a convict, though he kept
such a swell carriage. He had no peace about his father-in-law, the
house-breaker! Don't I remember how you pinched her hand the night you
were righted
You know nothing about it
She is far beyond my
reach
A fine lady? Ha! Well, I should have thought you as good as Flora any
day
She is what she always was
but
it is unreasonable to think of it. She is all but engaged to Sir Henry
Walkinghame
Walkinghame
I have half a mind to send in
my name to Flora as Miss Walkinghame
It had nearly cost
me a great deal! But tell me, Norman, how has that Meta, as they called
her, turned out? I never saw anything prettier or nicer than she was
that day of the Roman encampment, and I should be sorry if that fine
fashionable aunt of hers, had made her stuck-up and disdainful
No such thing
Ha
I see how it is! She has gone and made
poor old June unhappy, with her scornful airs -- a little impertinent
puss!-- I wonder Flora does not teach her better manners
Norman
how are you? Are you come on your way to Oxford
Has not Flora had Mary's letter
Yes, she said she had one. She was keeping it till she had time to read
it
I am sure I ought to know you, but I am afraid I don't
Look again
See if you have ever seen him before
Indeed, I cannot
remember. I dare say I ought
I think you see a likeness
Oh, yes, I see
No? Impossible! Yes, it is
Yes, it is
Dear, dear Dr. May
Oh, how happy you must
all be! And Margaret
Is not
Mr. Ernescliffe come
No
No, Meta, but Margaret is much
comforted about him. He died in great peace -- in his arms
Perhaps it would have
been too perfect if he had come; but oh, Norman! how good she is to bear
it so patiently! And how gloriously he behaved! How can we make enough
of him! And Flora out! how sorry she will be
And she never opened Mary's letter
She little thought what it contained
Mary's letters are
apt to bear keeping, you know, and she was so busy, that she laid it
aside for a treat after the day's work. But there! inhospitable wretch
that I am! you have had no dinner
What makes her so busy
You don't know what an important lady you have for a sister
But tell me, what can she have to do? I thought you London ladies
had nothing to do, but to sit with your hands before you entertaining
company
Shall I begin at the beginning? I'll describe
to-day then, and you must understand that this is what Tom would call a
mild specimen -- only one evening engagement. Though, perhaps, I ought to
start from last night at twelve o'clock, when she was at the Austrian
Ambassador's ball, and came home at two; but she was up by eight -- she
always manages to get through her housekeeping matters before breakfast.
At nine, breakfast, and baby -- by the bye, you have never inquired for
our niece
I have not come to believe in her yet
Seeing is believing
but no, I won't take an unfair
advantage over her mamma; and she will be fast asleep; I never knew a
child sleep as she does. So to go on with our day. The papers come, and
Miss Leonora is given over to me; for you must know we are wonderful
politicians. Flora studies all the debates till George finds out what
he has heard in the House, and baby and I profit. Baby goes out walking,
and the post comes. Flora always goes to the study with George, and
writes, and does all sorts of things for him. She is the most useful
wife in the world. At twelve, we had our singing lesson
Singing lesson
Yes, you know she has a pretty voice, and she is glad to cultivate it.
It is very useful at parties, but it takes up a great deal of time,
and with all I can do to save her in note-writing, the morning is gone
directly. After luncheon, she had to ride with George, and came back in
a hurry to make some canvassing calls about the orphan asylum, and Miss
Bracy's sister. If we get her in at all, it will be Flora's diplomacy.
And there was shopping to do, and when we came in hoping for time for
our letters, there were the Walkinghames, who stayed a long time, so
that Flora could only despatch the most important notes, before George
came in and wanted her. She was reading something for him all the time
she was dressing, but, as I say, this is quite a quiet day
Stop
it sounds harder
than cleaning knives, like Aunt Flora! And what is an unquiet day like
You will see, for we have a great evening party to-morrow
Do you always stay at home
Not always, but I do not go to large parties or balls this year
I am very glad of a little time at
home
So you don't like it
Oh, yes! it is very pleasant
It is so entertaining when
we talk it over afterwards, and I like to hear how Flora is admired, and
called the beauty of the season. I tell George, and we do so gloat over
it together! There was an old French marquis the other night, a dear
old man, quite of the ancien regime, who said she was exactly like the
portraits of Madame de Maintenon, and produced a beautiful miniature on
a snuff-box, positively like that very pretty form of face of hers.
The old man even declared that Mistress Rivers was worthy to be a
Frenchwoman
I should like to kick him
I hope you won't to-morrow! But don't let us waste our time over this;
I want so much to hear about New Zealand
How glad you must be that you are likely to go
Now, then
Meta has told you
Ha! is
it possible! No, surely it cannot be
Miss Walkinghame
Harry! this is dear Harry! our own dear sailor come back
My brother Harry! our dear lost one
Your -- brother -- Harry
your brother that was lost? Upon my word
I am very glad
to see you. I never was more rejoiced in my life
When did you come? Have you been at home
I came home yesterday -- Mary wrote to tell you
Poor dear old Mary! There's a lesson against taking a letter on trust.
I thought it would be all Cocksmoor, and would wait for a quiet moment!
How good to come to me so soon, you dear old shipwrecked mariner
I was forced to come to report myself
or I could not
have come away from my father so soon
and
I am the more glad that she keeps no
one away, because we can only have evening prayers on Sunday. It is a
serious thing to arrange for such a household
She is equal to anything
I like to have the baby with us at breakfast
it is the
only time of day when we can be sure of seeing anything of her, and I
like her nurse to have some respite. Do you think her grown, Norman
Not very much
Is she not
rather pale
London makes children pale. I shall soon take her home to acquire a
little colour. You must know Sir Henry has bitten us with his yachting
tastes, and as soon as we can leave London, we are going to spend six
weeks with the Walkinghames at Ryde, and rival you, Harry. I think Miss
Leonora will be better at home, so we must leave her there. Lodgings and
irregularities don't suit people of her age
Does home mean Stoneborough
No. Old nurse has one of her deadly prejudices against Preston, and I
would not be responsible for the consequences of shutting them up in the
same nursery. Margaret would be distracted between them. No, miss, you
shall make her a visit every day, and be fondled by your grandpapa
I don't want you in one, sir
I have only one coat in the world, besides this
and
that is all over tar
George will see to that
Don't you think you would be
welcome in matting, with an orange cowry round your neck
All English people behave much the same in a room
I should have thought you would prefer finding out Forder in his
chambers, or going to one of the theatres
As you please
but Flora seems to want us, and I should
rather like to see what sort of company she keeps
only living man who knew how to cut hair
rather long
rather long
That is better
but, as to
that coat of yours, the rogue who made it should never make another.
Where could you have picked it up
At a shop at Auckland
Kept by a savage
See
that seam
Have done, May
He will think you a tailor's
apprentice
Or worse
Rivers's tailor kept all strictures to
himself
The fellows are not such asses as you
You don't
deserve that he should come to see you. If my
Oh, Harry, you were with him
tell me all about him
Go on
all for the best
He might say so. I suppose one ought to think so. But is not it hard,
when I had nobody but him? And there was Maplewood; and I might have
been so happy there, with him and Margaret
They say nothing could have made Margaret well
I don't care; he would have married her all the same, and we should
have made her so happy at Maplewood. I hate the place! I wish it were at
Jericho
You are captain of the ship now
and you must make the
best of it
I can't. It will never be home. Home is with Margaret, and the rest of
them
So Alan said he hoped you would make it; and you are just like one of
us, you know
What's the use of that, when Captain Gordon will not let me go near
you. Taking me to that abominable Maplewood last Easter, with half the
house shut up, and all horrid! And he is as dry as a stick
The captain
There's not a better captain to
sail with in the whole navy, and your brother would be the first to tell
you so! I'm not discharged yet. Hector -- you had better look out what you
say
Maybe he is the best to sail with, but that is not being the best to
live with
Alan himself
always said he never knew what home was, till he got to your father and
Margaret
So will you
why, my father is your master, or whatever
you may call it
No, Captain Gordon is my guardian
Eh! what's become of the will then
What will
Did Alan make one after all
Ay. At Valparaiso, he had a touch of fever; I went ashore to nurse
him, to a merchant's, who took us in for love of our Scottish blood. Mr.
Ernescliffe made a will there, and left it in his charge
Do you think he made Dr. May my guardian
He asked me whether I thought he would dislike it, and I told him, no
That's right
That's like dear old Alan! I shall
get back to the doctor and Margaret after all. Mind you write to the
captain, Harry
Not he
He is liked as much as any one in the house -- he
has been five times sent up for good. See there in the Eton list! He is
a real clever fellow
Ay, but what's the good of all that, if you let him be a puppy
Oh, he'll be cured. A fellow that has been a sloven always is a puppy
for a bit
You need not fear
He did not require Eton to make him a
gentleman. How now? Why, Tom, old man, you are not taking that to heart?
That's all over long ago
Well, what now, old fellow
One would think you were not glad to see Harry
I suppose he has made you all the more set upon that mad notion of
yours
So far as making me feel that that part of the world has a strong claim
on us
I'm sure you don't look as if you found your pleasure in it
Pleasure is not what I seek
What is the matter with you
You said I did not seem
rejoiced -- you look worse, I am sure
I wonder which would really make you happiest, to have your own way,
and go to these black villains
Remember, that but for others who have done so, Harry
Pshaw
If
it would keep you at home, I would say I never would hear of doctoring
I thought you had said so
What's the use of my coming here, if I'm to be a country doctor
I have told you I do not mean to victimise you. If you have a distaste
to it, there's an end of it -- I am quite ready
No
if I must, I must; I don't mind
the part of it that you do. I only hate the name of it, and the being
tied down to a country place like that, while you go out thousands of
miles off to these savages; but if it is the only thing to content you,
I wont stand in your way. I can't bear your looking disconsolate
Don't think yourself bound, if you really dislike the profession
I don't
It is my free choice. If it were not for horrid
sick people, I should like it
I say, old June
are you ready
I have not begun dressing yet. Will you wait
Not I. The fun is beginning
Where is Harry
Is he not rather out of his element
No, indeed
Why, he is the lion of the night
Poor fellow, how he must hate it
Come this way, into the front room. There, look at him -- is it not nice
to see him, so perfectly simple and at his ease, neither shy nor elated?
And what a fine-looking fellow he is
I suppose you cannot dance
I
Mr. May
Ha! June! what makes you stand sentry there? Come and dance, and have
some of the fun! Some of these girls are the nicest partners in the
world. There's that Lady Alice, something with the dangling things
in her hair, sitting down now -- famous at a polka. Come along, I'll
introduce you. It will do you good
I know nothing of dancing
Comes by nature, when you hear the music. Ha! what a delicious polka!
Come along, or I must be off! She will be waiting for me, and she is the
second prettiest girl here! Come
I have been trying to make something of him, Harry
but I don't know whether it is mauvaise honte, or
headache
I see! Poor old June
I'll get you an ice at once, old
fellow! Nothing like one for setting a man going
Flora
is -- are the Walkinghames here
Yes. Don't you see Sir Henry. That fine-looking man with the black
moustache. I want you to know him. He is a great admirer of your prize
poem and of Dr. Spencer
Here is Norman May
he knows them better than I do. Do you
remember which of these is the head of Diana, Norman
Why, Meta
you have not once danced!
We are a sort of brother and sister, to be sure, but that is no
hindrance, is it
No
thank you, Harry, but you must find some one
more worthy. I do not dance this season; at least, not in public. When
we get home, who knows what we may do
You don't dance! Poor little Meta! And you don't go out! What a pity
I had rather not work quite so hard
Think what good
fortune I had by staying at home last night
I declare
I can't imagine why Norman had said you had turned into a
fine lady! I can't see a bit of it
Norman said I had turned into a fine lady
Why
Never mind! I don't think so; you are just like papa's humming-bird, as
you always were, not a bit more of a fine lady than any girl here, and I
am sure papa would say so. Only old June had got a bad headache, and is
in one of his old dumps, such as I hoped he had left off. But he can't
help it, poor fellow, and he will come out of it, by and by -- so never
mind. Hallo! why people are going away already. There's that girl
without any one to hand her downstairs
Well done, Flora! It was capital fun! I
never saw a lot of prettier or more good-natured people in my life. If
I am at home for the Stoneborough ball, I wonder whether my father will
let me go to it
What's the matter now
Your comparing Flora's party to a Stoneborough ball
It is all the same, isn't it
I'm sure you are equally
disgusted at both
Much you know about it
I'm not going
to put conceit in that lion head of yours, but you were as good as an
Indian prince to my party. Do you know to whom you have been talking so
coolly
Of course. You see, Norman, it is just as I told you. All civilised
people are just alike when they get into a drawing-room
Harry takes large views of the Genus homo
Being used to the black and brown species, he takes little heed of
the lesser varieties
It is enough for him that he does not furnish the entertainment in
another way
But, good-night. Meta, you look tired
I have it
I don't
know how I came to forget it. The will was to be sent home to Mr.
Mackintosh's English partner. I'll go and overhaul him this very
morning. They won't mind my coming by a later train, when there is such
a reason
What is his name? Where shall you find him
I can't be sure; but you've a navy list of that sort of cattle, have
not you, Flora? I'll hunt him up
Will of Alan Halliday
Ernescliffe, Esquire, of Maplewood, Yorkshire, Lieutenant in H. M.
S. Alcestis
And yet
Harry will not hear a single word in
dispraise of him. I do believe he loves him with all his heart
I think
that in a strong character, there is an exulting
fear in looking up to a superior, in whose justice there is perfect
reliance. It is a germ of the higher feeling
I believe you are right
but it is a serious thing
for a man to have so little sympathy with those below him. You see how
Hector feels it, and I now understand how it told upon Alan, and how
papa's warmth was like a surprise to him
Because Captain Gordon had to be a father to them, and that is more
than a captain. I should not wonder if there were more similarity and
fellow-feeling between him and Harry than there could be with either of
them. Harry, though he has all papa's tenderness, is of a rougher sort
that likes to feel itself mastered. Poor Hector! I wonder if he is to be
given back to us
Do you know -- when -- whether they will find out this morning
Yes, I believe so. I was not to have told you, but
There is no reason that it should do me any harm
Go down, dear Ethel -- Aubrey will be
waiting for you
Margaret not downstairs yet
She is dressed, but will not come down till the evening
I'll go to her. She will be pleased. Come up presently, Ethel. Or,
where's Richard
Gone out
What, is it anything left to her
The best, the best
Ethel, listen -- twenty thousand, to
build and endow a church for Cocksmoor
My dear child
This is your wish. I give you joy,
indeed I do
My wish! my
wish
I'm glad it is found
Now I know why he talked of
Cocksmoor, and seemed to rest in planning for it. You will mind the roof
is as he said
You must talk to Dr. Spencer about that
The captain
means to leave it entirely in our hands
Dear Alan
My wish! Oh, yes, but how gained? Yet,
Cocksmoor with a church! I don't know how to be glad enough, and yet
You shall read the sentence
In testimony of
thankfulness for mercy vouchsafed to him here --' poor dear boy
What does the captain say
He is rather astounded, but he owns that the estate can bear it, for
old Halliday had saved a great deal, and there will be more before
Hector comes of age
And Hector
Yes, we get him back. I am fellow-trustee with Captain Gordon, and as
to personal guardianship, I fancy the captain found he could not make
the boy happy, and thinks you no bad specimen of our training
Famous
Hector will hurrah now! Is that all
Except legacies to Captain Gordon, and some Scottish relations. But
poor Margaret ought to hear it. Ethel, don't be long in coming
I thought so
Dear Ethel, are you not
glad
I think I am
You think
I beg your pardon
Dear Margaret, I
am glad -- don't you believe I am, but somehow, it is harder to deal with
joy than grief. It confuses one! Dear Alan -- and then to have been set
on it so long -- to have prayed so for it, and to have it come in this
way -- by your
Nay, Ethel, had he come home, it was his great wish to have done it.
He used to make projects when he was here, but he would not let me tell
you, lest he should find duties at Maplewood -- whereas this would have
been his pleasure
Dear Alan
If you are so kind, so dear as to be glad,
Margaret, I think I shall be so presently
You are sure you are glad
It would be strange if I were not
See, Ethel, here
are blessings springing up from what I used to think had served for
nothing but to bring him pain and grief. I am so thankful that he could
express his desire, and so grateful to dear Harry for bringing it to
light. How much better it is than I ever thought it could be! He has
been spared disappointment, and surely the good that he will have done
will follow him
And you
I shall lie here and wait
I shall see the plans, and
hear all about it, and oh
perhaps some day, I
may hear the bell
Had he heard
I have
She is so pleased
I thought she would be
Captain Gordon
seemed quite vexed that no special token of remembrance was left to
her
If he only knew how glad I am there
was not
Oh,
Richard! Richard! Richard
It is come at last! If it
had not been for you, this would never have been. How little likely it
seemed, that dirty day, when I talked wildly, and you checked me
You had faith and perseverance
or
You are right
It
was Ethel's steadiness that brought it before Alan's mind. If she had
yielded when we almost wished it, in the time of the distress about Mrs.
Green, I do believe that all would have died away
I didn't keep steady -- I was only crazy. You and Ritchie and Mr.
Wilmot
And there's Harry playing all sorts
of rigs with Aubrey! I shan't get any more sense out of him to-day
And as to Maplewood, I shall not hate it so much, if that
happens which I hope will happen
I'll be prudent, Dick
Trust me not to rival the
minster
We shall find work next for you there
Ay, we shall have May out of his family packing-box before many years
are over his head
Don't mention it
I know what I exposed myself to in
bringing Wilmot here
Yes
we shall put you in the van when we attack the
Corporation pen
I shall hold by the good old cause. As if the galleries had not been
there before you were born
As if poor people had a right to sit in their own church
Sit, you may well say
As if any one could do
otherwise, with those ingenious traps for hindering kneeling
Well, well, I know the people must have room
Yes, you would like to build another blue gallery, blocking up another
window, and with Richard May and Christopher Tomkins, Churchwardens, on
it, in orange-coloured letters -- the Rivers' colours. No disrespect to
your father, Miss May, but, as a general observation, it is a property
of Town Councillors to be conservative only where they ought not
I brought you here to talk of building a church, not of pulling one to
pieces
seemed to have taken a fancy to
him
Mrs. Rivers was an admirable woman
Ah
I understand it. I am living a life of ease and
uselessness, and with his higher aims and nobler purposes, he shrinks
from the frivolities among which I am cast. I saw his saddened
countenance among our gaieties, and I know that to deep minds there is
heaviness in the midst of display. He withdraws from the follies that
have no charms for him, and I -- ought I to be able to help being amused?
I don't seek these things, but, perhaps, I ought to avoid them more than
I do. If I could be quite clear what is right, I should not care what
effort I made. But I was born to be one of those who have trial of
riches, and such blessed tasks are not my portion. But if he sees the
vanities creeping into my heart, I should be grateful for that warning
Delicious
See, Flora, it is in good time, for those
vases were sadly shabby
Did we not thank him? I thought I did them all due honour, actually
using the Dresden bowl
You little wretch! quite insensible to the sentiment of the thing
Sentiment! One would think you had been reading about the language of
flowers
Whatever there was, poor Sir Henry did not mean it for the Dresden bowl
or Bohemian glass
Flora! do pray tell me whether you are in fun
You ridiculous child
What does she mean? Is it play? Oh, no, a hint would be far more like
her. But I hope it is nonsense. He is very kind and pleasant, and I
should not know what to do
However
I must see my way. If he should have any such
thing in his head, to go on as we do now would be committing myself, and
I will not do that, unless I am sure it is right. Oh, papa, you would
settle it for me! But I will have it out with Flora. She will find out
what I cannot -- how far he is a man for whom one ought to care. I do
not think Norman liked him, but then Norman has so keen a sense of
the world-touched. I suppose I am that! If any other life did but seem
appointed for me, but one cannot tell what is thwarting providential
leading, and if this be as good a man as -- What would Ethel say? If I
could but talk to Dr. May! But Flora I will catch, before I see him
again, that I may know how to behave
Flora, if you would only give me a minute, and would tell me
What
Whether, whether you meant anything in earnest
My dear little goose, did no one ever make an innocent joke in their
lives before
It was very silly of me
but you gave me a terrible
fright
Was it so very terrible, poor little bird
Well then, you may safely think of him as a man tame
about the house. It was much prettier of you not to appropriate the
flowers, as any other damsel would have done
Do you really and truly think
I know what he comes here
for -- it is only as a refuge from his mother's friend, old Lady Drummond,
who would give the world to catch him for her daughters -- that's all. Put
my nonsense out of your head, and be yourself, my sweet one
My dear
when do you think of going down to take the
baby to the Grange? She looks dull, I think
Really, I think it is hardly worth while to go down en masse
These last debates may be important, and it is a bad time to
quit one's post. Don't you think so
As you please -- the train is a great bore
And we will send the baby down the last day before we go to Ryde, with
Preston and Butts to take care of her. We can't spare him to take them
down, till we shut up the house. It is so much easier for us to go to
Portsmouth from hence
desirable connections
No, no, little miss
you don't talk to Ethel
till your fate is irrevocable. Why, if I had listened to her, I should
be thankful to be singing at Mrs. Hoxton's parties at this minute!
and, as for herself, look at Norman Ogilvie! No, no, after six weeks'
yachting -- moonlight, sea, and sympathy -- I defy her to rob Sir Henry of
his prize! And, with Meta lady of Cocksmoor, even Ethel herself must be
charmed
Papa, here is a message from Flora for you
she wants to know whom to consult about the baby
Ha! what's the matter
Will you ask papa whom I had better call in to see the
baby. There does not seem to be anything positively amiss, but I am
not happy about her. There is a sleepiness about her which I do not
understand, and, when roused, she is fretful, and will not be amused.
There is a look in her eyes which I do not like, and I should wish to
have some advice for her. Lady Leonora recommends Mr.--, but I always
distrust people who are very much the rage, and I shall send for no one
without papa's advice
Let me see
A look about the eyes! I shall go up and see her myself. Why
has not she brought her home
It would have been far better
Sleepy and dull! She was as lively a child when they took her away as
I ever saw. What! is there no more about her? The letter is crammed with
somebody's fete -- vote of want of confidence -- debate last night. What is
she about? She fancies she knows everything, and, the fact is, she knows
no more about infants -- I could see that, when the poor little thing was
a day old
Do you think there is cause for fear
I can't tell. With a first child, one can't guess what may be mamma's
fancy, or what may be serious. But Flora is not too fanciful, and I must
see her for my own satisfaction. Let some one write, and say I will
come up to-morrow by the twelve o'clock train -- and mind she opens the
letter
Flora is uneasy about her -- she seems heavy, and cries when she is
disturbed
Flora has not left her to-day, and hardly
yesterday
Have you had no advice for her
Flora preferred waiting till you should come
Oh, papa! I am so glad you are come
How long has she been so
For about two or three hours. She was very fretful before, but I did
not like to call in any one, as you were coming. Is it from her teeth
Her complexion is
always like that -- she cannot bear to be disturbed
This is the effect of opium
We must try some stimulant directly
What have you nearest
Godfrey's Cordial, sir
Ay -- anything to save time -- she is sinking for want of the drug that
has
Do not torment her further
it cannot be done. What have you all been doing
I tell you this child has been destroyed with opium
Hush! This is no presence
for the wrath of man
an exceeding bitter
cry
Carry her to her room
I will come
Oh, sir! oh, sir! indeed, I never did
Never did what
I never gave the dear baby anything to do her harm
You gave her this
Meta is with her! Where is
that woman? Have you given her up to the police
Silence
I believe this is no case for the police -- have mercy on the poor
woman
Mercy -- I'll have no mercy on my child's murderer! You said she had
destroyed my child
Ignorantly
I don't care for ignorance! She destroyed her -- I'll have justice
You shall
but it must be
investigated, and you are in no state to investigate. Go downstairs -- do
not do anything till I come to you
You will not let
her escape
No. Go down -- be quiet
Oh, Dr. May, do come to poor Flora! I don't know what to
do, and George is in such a state
Did Preston
really
Not knowingly
It is the way many children have gone;
but I never thought
Well
has
she confessed
But Flora
Flora, my poor, poor child
George
George, turn me out of the house too! If Preston killed her, I did
She must
go. They cannot see her again; but has she any friends in London
I think not
Find out. She must not be sent adrift. Send her to the Grange, if
nothing better offers. You must judge
Is she gone
Going. Meta is seeing to it
And that woman gets off free
while my poor little
girl
Flora! my own, my dearest -- my poor child! you should not turn from me.
Do I not carry with me the like self-reproachful conviction
Papa
I am not going, darling. I only wanted to speak to George
Don't let him come
Not till you wish it, my dear
Asleep
I hope the pulses are quieter. All depends on her
wakening
Poor, poor Flora
What have you done with the woman
I sent her to Mrs. Larpent's. I knew she would receive her and keep
her till she could write to her friends. Bellairs took her, but I could
hardly speak to her
She did it ignorantly
I could never be so merciful and forbearing as you
Ah! my dear, you will never have the same cause
good-night
Oh, papa! papa
Is it all true
It is true, my own poor dear
she
is gone to wait for you
Hush! Oh, don't! papa
Oh, think why
Nay, Flora, do not, do not speak as if that should exclude peace
or hope
Besides, it was no wilful
neglect -- you had other duties
You don't know me, papa
If I do not, the most Merciful Father does
Papa
I must see her
You shall, my dear
May it be
now -- while there is no daylight
If you wish it
Will you not see her face
I may not touch her
Of such is the kingdom of Heaven
You will all be with her there
She has flown on to point your aim more steadfastly
No, I shall not meet her
My child
do you know what you are saying
I know, I am not in the way
I never have been
Flora! How has this dear child been saved
What has released
her from the guilt she inherited through you, through me, through all?
Is not the Fountain open
She never wasted grace
My child! my Flora
you must not talk thus -- it is wrong! Only your own
morbid feeling can treat this -- this -- as a charge against you, and if
it were, indeed
that such consequences destroyed
hope, oh, Flora! where should I be
No
this is not what I meant. It is that I have never
set my heart right. I am not like you nor my sisters. I have seemed to
myself, and to you, to be trying to do right, but it was all hollow, for
the sake of praise and credit. I know it, now it is too late; and He
has let me destroy my child here, lest I should have destroyed her
everlasting life, like my own
If it were indeed so, her removal would be the greatest blessing
Yes
I meant the greatest blessing to you
if it be
sent to open your eyes, and raise your thoughts upwards. Oh, Flora, are
not afflictions tokens of infinite love
Mercy to her -- wrath to me
You will think otherwise by and by, my dear. Now
shall I say a prayer before we go down
Come, Flora, you must go to bed. See,
it is morning
You have sat up all night with me
So has George. He had just dropped asleep on the sofa when you awoke
I thought he was in anger
Not with you, dearest
No, I remember now, not where it was justly due. Papa
what did I do? I must have done
something very unkind to make him go away and leave me
I insisted on his leaving you, my dear. You seemed oppressed, and his
affectionate ways were doing you harm; so I was hardhearted, and turned
him out, sadly against his will
Poor George
has he been left to bear it alone all this
time? How much distressed he must have been. I must have vexed him
grievously. You don't guess how fond he was of her. I must go to him at
once
That is right, my dear
Don't praise me
All that is
left for me is to do what I can for him
George,
forgive
Papa! papa! you will not leave me
Oh, Meta, sorrow weighs more heavily in
town than in the country
Yes
If one only could go out and look at the flowers, and
take poor Flora up a nosegay
I don't think it would make much difference to her
Yes, I think it would
it did to me. The sights there
speak of the better sights
The power to look must come from within
Ay
as Mr. Ernescliffe said, 'heaven is as near --!' But
the skirts of heaven are more easily traced in our mountain view than
here, where, if I looked out of window, I should only see that giddy
string of carriages and people pursuing each other
Well, we shall get her home as soon as she is able to move, and I hope
it may soothe her. What a turmoil it is! There has not been one moment
without noise in the twenty-two hours I have been here
What would you say if you were in the city
Ah! there's no talking of it; but if I had been a fashionable London
physician, as my father-in-law wanted to make me, I should have been
dead long ago
No, I think you would have liked it very much
Why
Love's a flower that will not die
You
would have found so much good to do
And so much misery to rend one's heart
But, after all,
I suppose there is only a certain capacity of feeling
It is within, not without, as you said
Ha, there's another
It was Sir Henry Walkinghame's ring
It is always his time
of day
I suppose we must
Lady Walkinghame
must be anxious about Flora
That is a sensible superior man
He will be an acquisition
when he takes up his abode at Drydale
Yes
Meta,
dear, Preston is in the housekeeper's room. Will you go and speak to her
for a moment, to reassure her before I come
Oh, Flora
I sent for her
I thought it would be a good
opportunity while George is out. Will you be kind enough to prepare her,
my dear
You need not be afraid to see me, Preston
I am
very sorry for you -- you knew no better, and I should not have left so
much to you
Oh, ma'am -- so kind -- the dear, dear little darling -- I shall never
forgive myself
I know you did love her
I am sure you intended no
harm, and it was my leaving her that made her fretful
Only remember henceforth
remember strict obedience
and truth henceforth; the want of them will have worse results by and by
than even this. Now, Preston, I shall always wish you well. I ought not,
I believe, to recommend you to the like place, without saying why you
left me, but for any other I will give you a fair character. I will see
what I can do for you, and if you are ever in any distress, I hope you
will let me know. Have your wages been paid
Good-bye, then
Mind you let me
hear if you want help. Keep this
Dearest Flora, it has been too much
No
Poor thing, I am glad for her sake. But might she not have a book -- a
Bible
You may give her one, if you like. I could not
My dear
nothing can be better for both parties
than that he should be away. If he were here, he ought to leave all
attendance to me, and she would suffer from the sight of his distress
I cannot think what he will do or feel
Leave it to me. I will write to him, and we shall see her better before
post time
You will tell him exactly how it was, or I shall
Ho! you don't trust me
You shall speak for yourself, and I for myself;
and I shall say that nothing would so much hurt her as to have others
sacrificed to her
That is true
but she misses papa
Of course she does; but, depend on it, she would not have him leave
your sister, and she is under less restraint without him
I never saw her like this
The drop has made it overflow. She has repressed more than was good
for her, and now that her guard is broken down, she gives way under the
whole weight
Poor Margaret! I am pertinacious; but, if she is not better by post
time, papa will not bear to be away
I'll tell you what I think of her by that time. Send up your brother
Richard, if you wish to do her good. Richard would be a much better
person to write than yourself. I perceive that he is the reasonable
member of the family
Did not you know that before
All I knew of him, till last night, was, that no one could, by any
possibility, call him Dick
Surely
surely poor Flora must feel as
though an angel were waiting to comfort her
I hope I have done Margaret no harm
Don't talk of her,
poor child -- only pray for her
If Ethel could only see how she let herself
sink together, as it were, and her whole countenance relax, as soon as
he was out of sight
she could not doubt what misery these
efforts were to her
Why does she go on with them
George
What would become of him without her? If he misses
her for ten minutes he roams about lost, and he cannot enjoy anything
without her. I cannot think how he can help seeing what hard work it is,
and how he can be contented with those dreadful sham smiles; but as long
as she can give him pleasure, poor Flora will toil for him
It is very selfish
No, no, it is not
It is not that he will not see, but
that he cannot see. Good honest fellow, he really thinks it does her
good and pleases her. I was so sorry one evening when I tried to take
her place at that perpetual ecarte, and told him it teased her; he went
so wistfully to her, and asked whether it did, and she exerted herself
into such painful enjoyment to persuade him to the contrary; and
afterwards she said to me, 'Let me alone, dearest -- it is the only thing
left me
There is something in being husband and wife that one cannot
understand
I should like to bite
you! Coming here, are you
Oh, Ethel,
there you are! It is such a boon that you did not come home sooner, or
we should have had to ride home with him! I heard him asking for the
Miss Mays! And now I am in hopes that he will go home without falling in
with Flora and George
I did not know he was in these parts
He came to Drydale last week, but the place is forlorn, and George gave
him a general invitation to the Grange
Do you like him
I liked him very much in London
he is pleasant enough to
talk to, but somehow, he is not congruous here -- if you understand me.
And I think his coming oppresses Flora -- she turned quite pale when he
was announced, and her voice was lower than ever when she spoke to him
Does he come often
I don't think he has anything else to do
for our
house cannot be as pleasant as it was; but he is very kind to George,
and for that we must be grateful. One thing I am afraid of, that he will
persuade us off to the yachting after all
Oh
Yes
George seemed to like the plan, and I very much fear
that he is taking a dislike to the dear old Grange. I heard him say,
'Anything to get away
Poor George, I know he is restless
At least
you can't go till after your birthday, Miss
Heiress
No, Uncle Cosham is coming
Margaret, you must have your
stone laid before we go
Dr. Spencer promises it before Hector's holidays are over
What a blessing this church has been to that poor girl
How it beguiles her out
of her grief! I am glad she has the pleasure of the foundation; I doubt
if she will see the consecration
Indeed
Was that attack so serious
That recumbent position and want of exercise were certain to produce
organic disease, and suspense and sorrow have hastened it. The death of
Mrs. Rivers's poor child was the blow that called it into activity, and,
if it last more than a year, I shall be surprised
For such as she is, one cannot presume to wish, but her father -- is he
aware of this
He knows there is extensive damage; I think he does not open his eyes
to the result, but he will bear it. Never was there a man to whom it
came so naturally to live like the fowls of the air, or the lilies of
the field, as it does to dear Dick May
There is a strength of faith and love in him that carries him
through all
His childlike nature seems to have the
trustfulness that is, in itself, consolation. You said how Cocksmoor had
been blessed to Margaret -- I think it is the same with them all -- not only
Ethel and Richard, who have been immediately concerned; but that one
object has been a centre and aim to elevate the whole family, and give
force and unity to their efforts. Even the good doctor, much as I
always looked up to him -- much good as he did me in my young days -- I must
confess that he was sometimes very provoking
If you had tried to be his keeper at Cambridge, you might say so
He is so much less impetuous -- more consistent -- less desultory; I dare
say you understand me
His good qualities do not
entangle one another as they used to do
Exactly so. He was far more than I looked for when I came home, though
I might have guessed that such a disposition, backed by such principles
and such -- could not but shake off all the dross
One thing was
that a man must take himself
in hand at some time in his life, and Dr. May only began to think
himself responsible for himself when he lost his wife, who was wise for
both. She was an admirable person, but not easy to know well. I think
you knew her at
I say
it strikes me that we could not do
better than get up our S. P. G. demonstration on the day of the stone
Never could there be a better time
You have naturally
a gathering of clergy -- people ought to be liberal on such an occasion,
and, as Cocksmoor is provided for, why not give the benefit to the
missions, in their crying need
True, but there is no time to send for any one to make a speech
Husband your resources. What could you have better than young Harry and
his islanders
Harry would never make a speech
Let him cram Norman. Young Lake tells me Norman made a great sensation
at the Union at Oxford, and if his heart is in the work, he must not
shrink from the face of his townsmen
No doubt he had rather they were savages
And
yourself -- you will tell them of the Indian missions
With all my heart
When my Brahminhee godson -- the
deacon I told you of, comes to pay me his promised visit, what doings we
shall have! Seriously, I have just had letters from him and from others,
that speak of such need, that I could feel every moment wasted that is
not spent on their behalf
Yes
you have taken the best course for your own
happiness
Do then
If Lord Cosham will spare you, and your business
should be over in time, you could drive in, and try to bring papa home
with you
Oh, thank you, Flora. That is a kind treat, in case the morning should
be very awful
Ethel out and Norman? His seal is only too pretty
They are all helping Dr. Spencer at Cocksmoor
What a pity! But it is so very kind of him to treat me as a daisy. In
some ways I like his present for that the best of all
I will tell him so
Yes, no
I am not pretending to be anything half so nice
That is as she comports herself
Which means that you don't think her quite done for
Not quite
but I have not
seen what this morning may have done to her
Come and see, then
Flora told me to bring you home -- and
it is my birthday, you know. Never mind waiting to tell Ethel. Margaret
will let her know that I'll keep you out of mischief
Then you don't give me up yet
What have you been doing to make me
Doing or not doing -- one or the other
But indeed I wanted
to have you to myself. I am in a great puzzle
Sir Henry! I hope she won't consult me
Well, my dear
I fear it is a lasting puzzle
What shall I do with all
this money
Keep it in the bank, or buy railway shares
Thank you. That's a question for my cousins in the city. I want you to
answer me as no one else can do. I want to know what is my duty now that
I have my means in my own hands
There is need enough around
I do not mean only giving a little here and there, but I want you to
hear a few of my thoughts. Flora and George are kindness itself -- but,
you see, I have no duties. They are obliged to live a gay sort of
life -- it is their position; but I cannot make out whether it is mine. I
don't see that I am like those girls who have to go out as a matter of
obedience
You are very young
Too young to be independent
I must grow old enough to
be trusted alone, and in the meantime
Probably an answer will be found
You and your means
will find their -- their vocation
Marriage
I
think not
Why
I do not think good men like heiresses
Perhaps I should only do harm. It may be my duty to wait. All I wish to
know is, whether it is
I see you are not like girls who know their duty, and are restless,
because it is not the duty they like
Oh! I like everything. It is my liking it so much that makes me
afraid
Even going to Ryde
Don't I like the sailing? and seeing Harry too? I don't feel as if that
were waste, because I can sometimes spare poor Flora a little. We could
not let her go alone
You need never fear to be without a mission of comfort
Your 'spirit full of glee' was given you for something. Your presence
is far more to my poor Flora than you or she guess
I never meant to leave her now
I only wished to
be clear whether I ought to seek for my work
It will seek you, when the time comes
And meantime I must do what comes to hand, and take it as humiliation
that it is not in the more obviously blessed tasks! A call might come,
as Cocksmoor did to Ethel. But oh! my money! Ought it to be laid up for
myself
For your call, when it comes
There are but too many calls for the interest. The principal is your
trust, till the time comes
Oh, dear
I'm
afraid it is my nature to hate my neighbour
My dear Ethel, what is coming next
I like my neighbour at home, and whom I have to work for, very much
but oh! my neighbour that I have to be civil to
Poor old King! I am afraid your day will be spoiled with all your toils
as lady of the house. I wish I could help you
Let me have my grumble out, and you will
Indeed I am sorry you have this bustle, and so many to entertain, when
I know you would rather have the peaceful feelings belonging to the day
undisturbed. I should like to shelter you up here
It is very ungrateful of me
when Dr. Spencer works so
hard for us, not to be willing to grant anything to him
And -- but then I have none of the trouble of it -- I can't help liking the
notion of sending out the Church to the island whence the Church came
home to us
Yes
if we could do it without holding forth
Come, Ethel, it is much better than the bazaar -- it is no field for
vanity
Certainly not
What a mess every one will make! Oh, if I
could but stay away, like Harry! There will be Dr. Hoxton being sonorous
and prosy, and Mr. Lake will stammer, and that will be nothing to the
misery of our own people's work. George will flounder, and look at
Flora, and she will sit with her eyes on the ground, and Dr. Spencer
will come out of his proper self, and be complimentary to people who
deserve it no more!-- And Norman! I wish I could run away
Richard says we do not guess how well Norman speaks
Richard thinks Norman can do anything he can't do himself! It is all
chance -- he may do very well, if he gets into his 'funny state', but he
always suffers for that, and he will certainly put one into an agony at
the outset. I wish Dr. Spencer would have let him alone! And then there
will be that Sir Henry, whom I can't abide! Oh, I wish I were more
charitable, like Miss Bracy and Mary, who will think all so beautiful
So will you, when you come home
If I could only be talking to Cherry, and Dame Hall! I think the school
children enter into it very nicely, Margaret. Did I tell you how nicely
Ellen Reid answered about the hymn, 'From Greenland's icy mountains'?
She did not seem to have made it a mere geographical lesson, like Fanny
Grigg
You see
what he can do. They would have given anything to have had him for a
lecturer
the lamp
for well
did he know
that the universal brotherhood was drawn
closest in circles nearer home, that beneath the shadow of their own old
minster, gladness and mourning floated alike for all; and that all those
who had shared in the welcome to one, given back as it were from
the grave, would own the same debt of gratitude to the hospitable
islanders
Bless him
I told you so
Splendid speaker, Norman May, if he would oftener put himself out
Pity he has so many of the good doctor's
prejudices
Well, to be sure
I knew Mr. Norman was very
clever, but I declare I never thought of such as this! I will try my
poor utmost for those interesting natives
That youth has first-rate talents
Do you know what
he is designed for? I should like to bring him forward
Ah
The year I sent off May and Anderson was the
proudest year of my life
Upon my word
That Dr. Spencer is as good as a
book, but Mr. Norman -- I say, father, we will go without the new clock,
but we'll send somewhat to they men that built up the church, and has no
minister
A good move that
Worth at least twenty pounds.
That boy has the temperament of an orator, if the morbid were but a
grain less
Oh, Margaret
Dr. Spencer made the finest speech
you ever heard, only it was rather tiresome; and Norman made everybody
cry -- and Mary worse than all
There is no speaking of it. One should live such things, not talk over
them
We get on famously
Ethel does well when she is in for it,
like Norman. I had no notion what was in the lad. They are perfectly
amazed with his speech. It seems hard to give such as he is up to
those outlandish places; but there, his speech should have taught me
better -- one's best -- and, now and then, he seems my best
One comfort is
you would miss Ethel more
Gallant old King! I am glad she has had her wish. Good-bye, my
Margaret, we will think of you. I wish
I am very happy
The dear little
Daisy looks just as her godfather imagined her
Let me alone
Ethel and
Mary ought to have a lift, and I have had no walking to-day
My dear, you don't know how far it is. You can't go alone
I am lying in wait for Miss Bracy, or something innocent
In good time -- here comes Tom
I'll promise not to clack if you will be so kind as to take care of me
to Cocksmoor
Do you intend to walk
If you will let me be your companion
I shall be most happy
I wonder you did not stay away as Harry did
I thought it would be marked
You did quite right
I wished to hear Dr. Spencer, too
There is a man who does
know how to speak! He has seen something of the world, and knows what he
is talking of
But he did not come near Norman
I hated listening to Norman
Why should he go and set his
heart on those black savages
They are not savages in New Zealand
They are all niggers together
I cannot think
why Norman should care for them more than for his own brothers and
sisters. All I know is, that if I were my father, I would never give my
consent
It is lucky you are not
Dr. May makes the sacrifice with a free heart and
willing mind
Everybody goes and sacrifices somebody else
Who are the victims now
All of us. What are we to do without Norman? He is worth all of us
put together; and I
You might go out and follow in his steps
Not I. Don't you know what is to happen to me? Ah! Flora has not told
you. I thought she would not think it grand enough. She talked about
diplomacy
But what
Only that I am to stick to the old shop
Don't tell any
one; I would not have the fellows know it
Do you mean your father's profession
Ay
Oh, Tom! you don't talk of that as if you despised it
If it is good enough for him, it is good enough for me, I suppose
I hate everything when I think of my brothers going over the
world, while I, do what I will, must be tied down to this slow place all
the rest of my days
If you were away, you would be longing after it
Yes; but I can't get away
Surely, if the notion is so unpleasant to you, Dr. May would never
insist
It is my free choice, and that's the worst of it
I don't understand
Don't you see? Norman told me it would be a great relief to him if I
would turn my mind that way -- and I can't go against Norman. I found he
thought he must if I did not; and, you know, he is fit for all sorts of
things that -- Besides, he has a squeamishness about him, that makes him
turn white, if one does but cut one's finger, and how he would ever go
through the hospitals
So you
wanted to spare him
Ay! and papa was so pleased by my offering that I can't say a word of
the bore it is. If I were to back out, it would come upon Aubrey, and
he is weakly, and so young, that he could not help my father for many
years
What is
done for such reasons must make you happy
though there may
be much that is disagreeable
Not the study
The science is famous work. I like what I
see of it in my father's books, and there's a splendid skeleton at the
hospital that I long to be at. If it were not for Stoneborough, it
would be all very well; but, if I should get on ever so well at the
examinations, it all ends there! I must come back, and go racing about
this miserable circuit, just like your gold pheasant rampaging in his
cage, seeing the same stupid people all my days
I think
it is a noble,
beautiful thing to curb down your ambition for such causes. Tom, I like
you for it
I can't bear sick people
It has always seemed to me
that few lives could come up
to Dr. May's. Think of going about, always watched for with hope, often
bringing gladness and relief; if nothing else, comfort and kindness, his
whole business doing good
One is paid for it
Nothing could ever repay Dr. May
Can any one feel the fee
anything but a mere form? Besides, think of the numbers and numbers that
he takes nothing from; and oh! to how many he has brought the most real
good, when they would have shut their doors against it in any other
form! Oh, Tom, I think none of you guess how every one feels about your
father. I recollect one poor woman saying, after he had attended her
brother, 'He could not save his body, but, surely, ma'am, I think he was
the saving of his soul
It is of no use to talk of my being like my father
You will make it the same work of love, and
charity is the true glory
Hallo! Tom, what a guide you are
That fence which
even Ethel and Mary avoid
Mary climbs like a cow, and Ethel like a father-long-legs
Now Meta flies like a bird
And Tom helped me so cleverly
It was an excellent move,
to get into the shade and this delicious pine tree fragrance
Halt
this is too fast for Meta
I cannot
I must get there in time to set Dr. Spencer's
tackle to rights. He is tolerably knowing about knots, but there is a
dodge beyond him. Come on, Tom
I am afraid you do not know what you have undertaken
I am a capital walker. And I know, or do not know, how often Ethel
takes the same walk
Ethel is no rule
She ought to be
To be like her has always been my
ambition
Circumstances have formed Ethel
Circumstances! What an ambiguous word! Either Providence pointing to
duty, or the world drawing us from it
Stepping-stones, or stumbling-blocks
And, oh! the difficult question, when to bend them, or to bend to
them
There must be always some guiding
I believe there is
but when trumpet-peals are ringing
around, it is hard to know whether one is really 'waiting beside the
tent,' or only dawdling
It is great self-denial in the immovable square not to join the
charge
Yes; but they, being shot at, are not deceiving themselves
I suppose self-deception on those points is very common
Especially among young ladies
I hear so much of what
girls would do, if they might, or could, that I long to see them like
Ethel -- do what they can. And then it strikes me that I am doing the
same, living wilfully in indulgence, and putting my trust in my own
misgivings and discontent
I should have thought that discontent had as little to do with you as
with any living creature
You don't know how I could growl
Though
less from having anything to complain of, than from having nothing to
complain of
You mean
do you mean that this is not the course of life that you
would choose
All play and no work makes Jack a mere toy.


"Toys have a kindly mission, and I may be good for nothing else; but I
would have rather been a coffee-pot than a china shepherdess
Then you find no charm in the refinements to which you have been
brought up
Only too much
I mean that I never could dislike anything, and kindness
gives these things a soul; but, of course, I should be better satisfied,
if I lived harder, and had work to do
Meta
you tempt me very much! Would you?-- No, it is too
unreasonable. Would you share -- share the work that I have undertaken
Forgive me
It was very wrong. I never meant to have
vexed you by the betrayal of my vain affection
Stay, Norman
Why should it vex me? I should like it very much indeed
Meta, Meta! is it possible? Do you know
what you are saying
I think I do
You must understand me
You
have been -- words will not express what you have been to me for years
past, but I thought you too far beyond my hopes. I knew I ought to be
removed from you -- I believed that those who are debarred from earthly
happiness are marked for especial tasks. I never intended you to know
what actuated me, and now the work is undertaken, and -- and I cannot turn
back
No indeed
Then I may believe it
You do -- you will -- you
deliberately choose to share it with me
I will try not to be a weight on you
It would be the greatest
possible privilege. I really do not think I am a fine lady ingrain, and
you will teach me not to be too unworthy
I? Oh, Meta, you know not what I am! Yet with you, with you to inspire,
to strengthen, to cheer -- Meta, Meta, life is so much changed before me,
that I cannot understand it yet -- after the long dreary hopelessness
I can't think why
Hallo! Why, Meta! Norman! what brings you here? Where are you going
That is all your wits are good for. It is well I met you, or you would
have led poor Meta a pretty dance! You will know better than to trust
yourself to the mercies of a scholar another time. Let me give you a
lift
Oh
Yes
What, Meta, my pretty one, is it really so? Is he to be happy after
all? Are you to be a Daisy of my own
If you will let me
No flower on earth could come so naturally to us
And,
dear child, at last I may venture to tell you that you have a sanction
that you will value more than mine. Yes, my dear, on the last day of
your dear father's life, when some foreboding hung upon him, he spoke
to me of your prospects, and singled out this very Norman as such as he
would prefer
thank you
Did he
So, Meta, good men don't like
heiresses
Quite true
it was very much against me
Or it may be the other way
Eh? Good men don't like heiresses -- here's a man who likes an
heiress -- therefore here's a man that is not good? Ah, ha! Meta, you can
see that is false logic, though I've forgotten mine. And pray, miss,
what are we to say to your uncle
He cannot help it
Ha
we remember our twenty-one years, do
we
I did not mean -- I hope I said nothing wrong
Only after what you said, I can care for nothing else
If I could only thank him
I believe you know how to do that, my boy
We will be in good time for the proceedings
Tell them we are coming
I did not know you were walking
It is pleasant in the plantations
but I
am afraid we are late, and our punctual friends will be in despair. Will
you kindly say we are at hand
Poor Sir Henry
He has no right to be surprised
And so you were marching right upon Drydale
It was a happy dispensation that I met you
Oh, I am so glad of it
Though to be sure you were disarming suspicion by so cautiously keeping
the road between you. I should never have guessed what you had been at
Please -- I
think it should be known at once
Our idle deeds confessed without loss of time, miss
Meta is right -- it should be
known
I don't think Uncle Cosham would object, especially hearing it while he
is here
and if he knew what you told us
He goes to-morrow, does he not
Well, since it is not a case
for putting Ethel in the forefront, I must e'en get it over for you, I
suppose
Oh, thank you
The sooner the better, if
Meta
Oh, yes, yes, the sooner the better
And let me tell
Flora -- poor dear Flora -- she is always so kind
A pretty
guide
A shocking leader; Meta will never trust him again
Here comes Dr. Spencer
I hope he will scold you
This way
we are all ready
But where's my little Daisy
You'll see her in a minute. She is as good as gold
Etheldred
Etheldred, you must once let me say, God bless you for this
If you please, dearest, give this
to Dr. Spencer, and ask him to let it be set round the stem of the
chalice
I wish it
I shall like best to know it there
relic of a frail love lost
token
of endless love begun
Which
he would never have recollected for himself
Tom would have had to lend him the precious studs
He would not have
had them; who would wear imitation
I say, Tom, what did you give
for them
Better ask what the Jew gave for them, that bought them at
Windsor Fair; not a bad imitation, either -- pity they weren't Malachite;
but, no doubt, the Jew thought green would be personal
As if they had
any business to talk, who didn't know a respectable stud when they saw
it -- Harry, especially, with his hat set on the back of his head, like a
sailor on the stage
Fine experience of the stage -- all came from
Windsor Fair
Ay, Hector might talk, but didn't he pay a shilling
to see the Irish giant. He wouldn't confess, but it was a famous take
in -- giant had potatoes in his shoes
Not he; he was seven feet
ten high
Ay, when he stood upon a stool -- Hector would swallow
anything -- even the lady of a million postage stamps had not stuck in
his throat -- he had made Margaret collect for her
And, had not
Tom, himself, got a bottle of ointment to get the red out of his
hair
His hair wasn't red -- didn't want to change the
colour -- not half so red as Hector's own
What was it then? lively
auburn
Better colour than theirs could ever be
Then
what was the ointment for? to produce whiskers? that was the reason Tom
oiled himself like a Loyalty islander -- his hair was so shiny, that Harry
recommended a top-knot, like theirs, etc
old June had lost his way, and
found his spirits in Drydale -- he must have met with a private grog-shop
in the plantations -- would not Tom confess
not he; it was all in
private. He thought it was laughing-gas, or the reaction of being fried
all the morning, holding forth in that Town Hall. He had longed to make
a speech himself -- no end of the good it would have done the old stagers
to come out with something to the purpose. What would old Hoxton have
thought of it?


  "They shall dive for alligators, catch the wild goats by the beard;
  Whistle to the cockatoos, and mock the hairy-faced baboon;
  Worship mighty Mumbo Jumbo in the mountains of the moon.
  I myself, in far Timbuctoo, leopard's blood shall daily quaff;
  Ride a tiger hunting, mounted on a thoroughbred giraffe
Not you, Tom
You, the swell, the Eton fellow!  You, to seek such horrid places.
  You to haunt with squalid negroes, blubber lips, and monkey faces.
  Fool, again the dream, the fancy; don't I know the words are mad,
  For you count the gray barbarian lower than the Brocas cad
Nay, it is the consequence of misanthropy at the detection of the
frauds of unsophisticated society
Perhaps it was Miss Rivers forsaking him. Was not that rather
spider-hearted, Tom
Come, Harry, it is time to have done. We are getting into civilised
society -- here's Abbotstoke
Poor Norman, he is very far gone! He takes that scarecrow for civilised
society
Much better clothed than the society you have been accustomed to,
July
What a prize his wardrobe would be to the Black Prince
Don't
insult your betters
Which? The scarecrow, or the Black Prince
Dear Norman, this is pleasant
I will give you till Dr. Spencer comes
Then Norman can
dress, and you must be a good child, and come down to me
Poor Flora
She is so kind
Oh, if we could comfort her
I trust to her own kindness working comfort to her, at last
But is she often thus
Whenever she is not bearing up for George's sake
She
never says anything when she is alone with me, only she does not
struggle with her looks
It must be very trying for you
Nay, I feel grateful to her for even so far relaxing the restraint. If
I could but do her any good
You cannot help doing her good
She is so gentle
and considerate. I think this has been no fresh pain to her to-day, but
I cannot tell. The whole day has been a strange intermixture
The two strands of joy and grief have been very closely twisted
That rose is shedding its fragrant leaves in its glory, and
there is much that should have chastened the overflowing gladness of
to-day
As I was thinking
You were thinking
I had rather hear it from you
Was it not that we were taught to-day what is enduring, and gives
true permanence and blessedness to such -- to what there was between
Ernescliffe and Margaret
Theirs would, indeed, be a disheartening example
if it did
not show the strength and peace that distance, sickness, death, cannot
destroy
Yes. To see that church making Margaret happy as she lies smiling on
her couch, is a lesson of lessons
That what is hallowed must be blest
whatever the sundry
and manifold changes
But, Meta
have you heard nothing of -- of the elders
Oh, yes
have not you
I have seen no one
I have
Uncle Cosham is delighted. That speech of
yours has captivated him. He calls me a wise little woman to have found
out your first-rate abilities. There's for you, sir
I don't understand it! Surely he must be aware of my intentions
He said nothing about them; but, of course, Dr. May must have mentioned
them
I should have thought so, but I cannot suppose
That he would be willing to let me go
But then you know
he cannot help it
I believe you are taking a would-be missionary instead of Norman May
All would-be missionaries did not make dear papa so fond of them
and you would not be Norman May without such purposes
The purpose was not inspired at first by the highest motive
but it brought me peace, and, after the kind of dedication
that I inwardly made of myself in my time of trouble, it would take some
weighty reason, amounting to a clear duty, or physical impossibility,
to make me think I ought to turn back. I believe
that, if this
greatest of all joys were likely to hinder me from my calling, I ought
to seek strength to regard it as a temptation, and to forgo it
You ought, if it were so
I could not bear to keep back a soldier. If this were last year, and
I had any tie or duty here, it would be very hard. But no one needs me,
and if the health I have always had be continued to me, I don't think I
shall be much in the way. There
only tell me at once if you think me still too
much of a fine lady
I -- you -- a fine lady! Did anything ever give you the impression that I
did
I shall not get poor Harry into a scrape, shall I? He told me that you
said so, last spring, and I feared you judged me too truly
I
know, I know -- Harry interpreted my words in his own blunt fashion
Then you did say something like it
No, but -- but -- In short, Meta, these sailors' imaginations go to great
lengths. Harry had guessed more than I knew myself, before he had
sailed, and taxed me with it. It was a subject I could not bear then,
and I answered that you were too far beyond my hopes
Six years ago
Some
eyes saw it all that time, and you -- and
I should never have known it, if Tom had not taken me
through the plantations
Not if I had not discovered that your preferences did not lie
Among boudoirs and balls
Harry was right. You thought me
a fine lady after all
Dr. Spencer has brought your things, Norman. I am sorry to disturb
you -- but come down, Meta -- I ran away very uncivilly to fetch you. I hope
it is not too cruel
I
have not been able speak to George
Nonsense, Tom
don't you think Norman is better company
than you any day
Then why did you not walk him off instead of me
Out of consideration for Meta. She will tell you that she was very much
obliged to me
I beg your pardon, upon
my word, though I don't know what for
Nor I
You have no pardon
to beg. You will know it all to-morrow
Then I know it now
Well
done, Meta; there's nothing like old June in all the world! You may take
my word for it, and I knew you would have the sense to find it out
Hallo
Come along, Tom
she does not want any of your nonsense. We
will not plague her now
Thank you, Harry
I cannot talk rationally just yet. Don't
think me unkind, Tom
first-rate abilities
Ask dear Norman to let
me give him one kiss
New Zealand
If I wished to fail, she would keep me to it
I beg your pardon
I was
wrong to doubt either of you. Now, I know how to feel! But Margaret must
not wait
Time was that I should have grasped at such a prospect
but I am not the man for it. I have too much ambition, and too little
humility. You know, father, how often you have had to come to my rescue,
when I was running after success as my prime object
Vanity fair is a dangerous place, but you who have sound principles and
pure motives
How long would my motives be pure
Rivalry and
party-spirit make me distrust my motives, and then my principles feel
the shock. Other men are marked by station for such trials, and may be
carried through them, but I am not
Yet some of these men are far from your equals
Not perhaps in speechifying
but in steadiness
of aim, in patience, in callousness, in seeing one side of the question
at once
You judge rightly for your own peace; you will be the happier; I always
doubted whether you had nerve to make your wits available
It may be cowardice
but I think not. I could burn for
the combat; and if I had no scruples, I could enjoy bearing down such
as
I wish you were
at him
Whether I could is another matter
but the
fact is, that I stand pledged; and if I embraced what to me would be
a worldly career, I should be running into temptation, and could not
expect to be shielded from it
Your old rule
Seek to be less rather than more. But
there is another choice. Why not a parsonage at home
Pleasant parishes are not in the same need
I wonder what poor old Rivers would say to you, if he knew what you
want to do with his daughter! Brought up as she has been -- to expose her
to the roughness of a colonial life, such as I should hesitate about for
your sisters
It is her own ardent desire
True, but are girlish enthusiasms to be trusted? Take care, Norman,
take care of her -- she is a bit of the choicest porcelain of human kind,
and not to be rudely dealt with
No, indeed, but she has the brave enterprising temper, to which I fully
believe that actual work, in a good cause, is far preferable to what she
calls idleness. I do not believe that we are likely to meet with more
hardship than she would gladly encounter, and would almost -- nay, quite
enjoy
You do not know what your aunt has had to go through
A few years make a great difference in a colony. Still, it may be right
for me to go out alone and judge for her; but we shall know more if my
aunt comes home
Yes, I could trust a good deal to her. She has much of your mother's
sense. Well, you must settle it as you can with Meta's people! I do not
think they love the pretty creature better than I have done from the
first minute we saw her -- don't you remember it, Norman
Remember it? Do I not? From the frosted cedar downwards! It was the
first gem of spring in that dreary winter. What a Fairyland the Grange
was to me
You may nearly say the same of me
the
sight of that happy little sunny spirit, full of sympathy and sweetness,
always sent me brighter on my way. Wherever you may be, Norman, I am
glad you have her, being one apt to need a pocket sunbeam
I hope my tendencies are in no danger of depressing her
If so
No such thing -- she will make a different man of you. You have been
depressed by -- that early shock, and the gap at our own fireside -- all
that we have shared together, Norman. To see you begin on a new score,
with a bright home of your own, is the best in this world that I could
wish for you, though I shall live over my own twenty-two years in
thinking of you, and that sweet little fairy. But now go, Norman -- she
will be watching for you and news of Margaret. Give her all sorts of
love from me
If they showed themselves wilful children, they certainly did not
deserve to be trusted anywhere
It would be worse for him alone
That is not certain
A broken-down wife is a terrible
drag
I know it is so
but risks must be run, and he is
willing to take the chance. I do not think it can be presumption, for,
you know, I am strong; and Dr. May would say if he could not warrant me.
I fancy household work would be more satisfactory and less tiring than
doing a season thoroughly, and I mean to go through a course of Finchley
manuals in preparation
I hope you know what you are doing
You see it all
couleur de rose
I think not. It is because it is not couleur de rose that I am so much
bent upon it. I have had plenty of that all my life. I expect much that
will be very disagreeable and not at all heroic; but if I can only make
Norman think it fun, that will be one purpose answered. I do believe he
will do his work better for having me, and, at least, I shall pay his
passage
I could not -- I would not
poor Sir Henry
Indeed
I am afraid it would only tease you to hear how
much I am indebted to your decision and kindness
Nay
You have often had to
forget my savage ways
Pray don't say that
I think
the philosophy is this: I believe
that it is a trying life. I know teaching takes a great deal out of
one; and loneliness may cause tendencies to dwell on fancied slights in
trifles, that might otherwise be hurried over. But I think the thing
is, to pass them over, and make a conscience of turning one's mind to
something fresh
As you made me do, when you brought me amusing books, and taught me
botany
And, still more, when you took to working for the infant school. Yes, I
think the way to be happy and useful is to get up many interests, so as
to be fresh and vigorous, and think not at all of personalities. There's
a truism
Very true, though
Indeed, all your kindness and
consideration would never have done me half the good they have, dear
Miss Ethel, if you had not taught me that referring all to one's own
feelings and self is the way to be unhappy
Just so
It is the surest way for any one to be
miserable
If I could only persuade poor dear Ellen to think that even if a slight
were real, it ought to be borne forgivingly, and not brooded over. Ah!
you are laughing; perhaps you have said the same about me
You would forgive it now, I think
I never thought I did not forgive. I did not see that brooding over
vexations was not pardoning them. I have told her so now; and, oh! if
she could but have seen how true sorrows are borne here, she would be
cured, like me, of making imaginary ones
None could help being better for living with papa
Believing all things, bearing all things,
hoping all things, enduring all things
Enough of foresight sad, too much
      Of retrospect have I;
     And well for me, that I, sometimes,
      Can put those feelings by.

     There speaks the man we knew of yore,
      Well pleased, I hear them say;
     Such was he, in his lighter moods,
      Before our heads were gray.

     Buoyant he was in spirit, quick
      Of fancy, light of heart;
     And care, and time, and change have left
      Untouch'd his better part
Nervous, Ethel
That is for you
What, don't you know that prudent people say that
your fate depends on her report
At least
she is a living instance that every
one is not eaten up, and we shall see if she fulfils Tom's prediction
of being tattooed, or of having a slice out of the fattest part of her
cheek
I know very well
the worst she said it would be, the
more you would go
Not quite that
Come, don't be deceitful
You know very well that you are
still more bent on it than you were last year
To be sure I am
Norman and I know each other so much better now
Ay! I know you are ready to go through thick and thin, and that is
why I give my consent and approbation. You are not to be stopped for
nonsense
Not for nonsense, certainly
but
if Dr. May deliberately said it would be wrong, and that I
should be an encumbrance and perplexity, I am making up my mind to the
chance
But what would you do
I don't know. You should not ask such questions, Ethel
Well! it won't happen, so it is no use to talk about it
Fancy my having made you cry
Very silly of me
I
am only afraid Mrs. Arnott may think me individually unfit for the kind
of life, as if I could not do what other women can. Do I look so
You look as if you were meant to be put under a glass case
Oh, Ethel
What is the matter with me? Do tell me
You'll never get rid of it
unless you get yourself
tattooed! Even separation from Bellairs hasn't answered. And, after all,
I don't think it would be any satisfaction to Norman or papa. I assure
you, Meta, whatever you may think of it, it is not so much bother to be
prettier than needful, as it is to be uglier than needful
What is needful
I suppose to be like Mary, so that nobody should take notice of one,
but that one's own people may have the satisfaction of saying, 'she
is pleasing,' or 'she is in good looks.' I think Gertrude will come to
that. That's one comfort
That is your own case, Ethel. I have heard those very things said of
you
Of my hatchet face
Some one must have
been desperately bent on flattering the Member's family
I could repeat more
if I were to go back to the
Commemoration, and to the day you went home
Hark
It went past
It was the omnibus. She must be walking down
I did not think this would be so much to you
Oh, Meta, it seems like dear mamma coming to see how we have been going
on. And then papa! I wish I had gone up to the station with him
He has Richard
Ay, but I am afraid Margaret is listening and will be restless, and
have a palpitation; and I can't go and see, or I shall disturb her. Oh,
I wish it were over
Ay
I see you, Flora, now. I have found
you again
I found you as soon as I heard your voice, Richard
And now
for the bairnies
Here is one, but there is but a poor show forthcoming to-night. Do you
know her
This must be Ethel! My dear, how you tower above me -- you that I left in
arms! And
why, surely this is
not Margaret
A Margaret -- not the Margaret. I wish I were
See, Flora, these black
locks never belonged to Calton Hill daisies, yet a daisy of my own she
is. Can't you guess
Miss Rivers
Yes
We change Mary for this little woman as Flora's
lady-in-waiting, when she and her husband go out yachting and shooting
Flora and her husband! There's a marvellous sound! Where are they
They are staying at Eccleswood Castle
and Mary with
them. They would have been at home to receive you, but your note
yesterday took us all by surprise. Norman is away too, at a college
meeting
And Margaret -- my Margaret! Does not she come downstairs
Ah! poor dear
she has not been in this room since that
sultry day in July
The eighteenth
We can keep her quieter upstairs
but you must not see
her to-night. She will enjoy you very much to-morrow; but excitement at
night always does her harm, so we put her to bed, and told her to think
about no one
Then the babies
We don't keep babies, Gertrude would tell you
There
are three great creatures, whom Ethel barbarously ordered off to bed.
Ethel is master here, you must know, Flora -- we all mind what she says
Oh, papa
you know it was because I
thought numbers might be oppressive
I never dispute
We bow to a beneficial despotism, and
never rebel, do we, Meta
You are
making Mrs. Arnott think her the strong-minded woman of the family, who
winds up the clock and cuts the bread
No; that she makes you do, when the boys are away
Of course
I can't be vituperated about hunches of bread.
I have quite enough to bear on the score of tea
Your tea is very good
See how they propitiate her
Not at all; it is Richard standing up for his pupil
It
is all very well now, with people who know the capacities of mortal tea;
but the boys expect it to last from seven o'clock to ten, through an
unlimited number of cups, till I have announced that a teapot must
be carved on my tombstone, with an epitaph, 'Died of unreasonable
requirements
Is Harry one of these unreasonable boys
My dear Harry -- I
presume Ethel has not sent him to bed. Is there any hope of my seeing
him
Great hope
He has been in the Baltic fleet, a pretty
little summer trip, from which we expect him to return any day. My old
Lion! I am glad you had him for a little while, Flora.

"Dear fellow! his only fault was being homesick, and making me catch the
infection
I am glad you did not put off your coming
You are in time for the consecration
Ah! Cocksmoor! When will it take place
On St. Andrew's Day. It is St. Andrew's Church, and the bishop
fixed the day, otherwise it is a disappointment that Hector cannot be
present
Hector
Hector Ernescliffe -- poor Alan's brother, whom we don't well know from
ourselves
And you are curate, Ritchie
if I may still call you
so. You are not a bit altered from the mouse you used to be
Church mouse to Cocksmoor
nearly as poor. We are to
invest his patrimony in a parsonage as soon as our architect in ordinary
can find time for it. Spencer -- you remember him
I remember how you and he used to be inseparable! And he has settled
down, at last, by your side
The two old doctors hope to bolster each other up till Mr. Tom
comes down with modern science in full force. That boy will do great
things -- he has as clear a head as I ever knew
And more
Ay, as sound a heart. I must find you his tutor's letter, Flora. They
have had a row in his tutor's house at Eton, and our boys made a gallant
stand for the right, Tom especially, guarding the little fellows in a
way that does one good to hear of
I must express my strong sense of gratitude for his truth,
uprightness, and moral courage
Ah, ha! you have learned it by heart! I know you copied it out for
Norman, who has the best right to rejoice
You have a set of children to be proud of, Richard
To be surprised at -- to be thankful for
Must you go, my dear
I can't tell how to spare you. I want to hear of your dear father. He
looks aged and thin, Ethel, and yet that sweet expression is the same as
ever. Is he very anxious about poor Margaret
Not exactly anxious
there is not much room
for that
My dear Ethel -- you don't mean?-- I thought
I suppose we ought to have written more fully
but it has
been very gradual, and we never say it to ourselves. She is as bright,
and happy, and comfortable as ever, in general, and, perhaps, may be so
for a long time yet, but each attack weakens her
What kind of attack
Faintness-sinking. It is suspended action of the heart. The injury
to the spine deranged the system, and then the long suspense, and the
shock -- It is not one thing more than another, but it must go on. Dr.
Spencer will tell you. You won't ask papa too much about it
No, indeed. And he bears it
He bears everything. Strength comes up out of his great lovingness.
But, oh! I sometimes long that he may never have any more sorrows
My poor child
Aunt Flora! Aunt Flora! If any
words could tell what Margaret has been ever since we were left. Oh,
don't make me talk or think of ourselves without her. It is wrong to
wish. And when you see her, that dear face of hers will make you happy
in the present. Then
you have our Norman to see
Ah! Norman's project is too delightful to us; but I fear what it may be
to your father
He gives dear Norman, as his most precious gift, the flower and pride
of us all
But, Ethel, I am quite frightened at Miss Rivers's looks. Is it
possible that
Aunt Flora
don't say a word against it. The choicest
goods wear the best; and whatever woman can do, Meta Rivers can. Norman
is a great tall fellow, as clever as possible, but perfectly feckless.
If you had him there alone, he would be a bee without a queen
Well, but
Listen
Meta is a concentration of spirit and
energy, delights in practical matters, is twice the housewife I am, and
does all like an accomplishment. Between them, they will make a noble
missionary
But she looks
Hush
You will think me domineering; but please
don't give any judgment without seeing; for they look to you as an
arbitrator, and casual words will weigh
Thank you, Ethel; perhaps you are right. When does he think of coming
out
When he is ordained -- some time next year
Does she live with you
I suppose she lives with Flora; but we always manage to get her when
Norman is at home
You have told me nothing of Flora or Mary
I have little real to tell. Good old Mary! I dare say Harry talked
to you plentifully of her. She is a -- a nice old darling
We want her again very much, and did not quite bargain for the
succession of smart visits that she has been paying
With Flora
Yes. Unluckily George Rivers has taken an aversion to the Grange, and I
have not seen Flora this whole year
Auntie! dear auntie! that you should have come back to me
again
Architecture is all our rage at present
I am so glad to have come in time for the consecration
Is that a model of the church
Oh, yes
Richard made it for me
May I show it to Aunt Flora
Bring it here, if you can lift it
Why, my dear,
when have you seen it
Never
I have never seen
Cocksmoor; but Dr. Spencer and Meta are always sketching it for me, and
Ethel would not let an effect pass without telling me. I shall hear how
it strikes you next
I hope to see it by and by. What a comfortable deep porch! If we could
build such churches in the colonies, Margaret
See what little Meta will do for you! Yes, we had the porch deep for a
shelter -- that is copied from the west door of the minster, and is it
not a fine high-pitched roof? John Taylor, who is to be clerk, could not
understand its being open; he said, when he saw the timbers, that a man
and his family might live up among them. They are noble oak beams; we
would not have any sham -- here, Aubrey, take off the roof, and auntie
will see the shape
Like the ribs of a ship
Such fine oak beams! I rode with Dr. Spencer one day last year to
choose them. It is a two-aisled church, you see, that a third may be
added
Lessons,
Aubrey
So, Margaret, you are over your dear model
Not forestalling you too much I hope, Ethel dear
as
you will show her the church itself
You have the best right
but come, Aubrey, we must not
dawdle
I will show you the stones I laid myself, Aunt Flora
Ethel has him in excellent order
That she has; she brings him on beautifully, and makes him enjoy it.
She teaches him arithmetic in some wonderful scientific way that nobody
can understand but Norman, and he not the details; but he says it is all
coming right, and will make him a capital mathematical scholar, though
he cannot add up pounds, shillings, and pence
I expected to be struck with Ethel
and
Well
Yes, she does exceed my expectations. There is something curiously
winning in that quaint, quick, decisive manner of hers. There is so much
soul in the least thing she does, as if she could not be indifferent for
a moment
Exactly -- exactly so
It is really doing
everything with all her might. Little, simple, everyday matters did not
come naturally to her as to other people, and the having had to make
them duties has taught her to do them with that earnest manner, as
if there were a right and a wrong to her in each little mechanical
household office
Harry described her to me thus
As to
Ethel, she is an odd fish; but Cocksmoor will make a woman of her after
all
Quite true
I should not have thought Harry had so
much discernment in those days. Cocksmoor gave the stimulus, and made
Ethel what she is. Look there -- over the mantelpiece, are the designs for
the painted glass, all gifts, except the east window. That one of St.
Andrew introducing the lad with the loaves and fishes is Ethel's window.
It is the produce of the hoard she began this time seven years, when
she had but one sovereign in the world. She kept steadily on with it,
spending nothing on herself that she could avoid, always intending it
for the church, and it was just enough to pay for this window
Most suitable
Yes; Mr. Wilmot and I persuaded her into it; but I do not think she
would have allowed it, if she had seen the application we made of
it -- the gift of her girlhood blessed and extended. Dear King Etheldred,
it is the only time I ever cheated her
This is a beautiful east window. And this little one -- St. Margaret I
see
Ah! papa would not be denied choosing that for his subject. We
reproached him with legendary saints, and overwhelmed him with
antiquarianism, to show that the Margaret of the dragon was not the
Margaret of the daisy; but he would have it; and said we might thank him
for not setting his heart on St. Etheldreda
This one
That is mine
A. H. E
And, besides
George Rivers made us a beautiful present,
which Meta hunted up. Old Mr. Rivers, knowing no better, once bought all
the beautiful carved fittings of a chapel in France, meaning to fit up
a library with them; but, happily, he never did, and a happy notion came
into Meta's head, so she found them out, and Dr. Spencer has adapted
them, and set them all to rights; and they are most exquisite. You never
saw such foliage
Yes
it is her chief occupation and interest. I do
not mean that she has not always her own dear full sympathy for every
one's concerns, but Cocksmoor is her concern, almost more than even
Ethel's. I think she could chronicle every stage in the building better
than Dr. Spencer himself, and it is her daily delight to hear his
histories of his progress. And not only with the church but the people;
she knows all about every family; Richard and Ethel tell her all their
news; she talks over the school with the mistress every Sunday, and
you cannot think what a feeling there is for her at Cocksmoor. A kind
message from Miss May has an effect that the active workers cannot
always produce
don't tell any one, for it is a secret of secrets. Hector
told me one evening that, if he could be very steady, he hoped he might
yet have Blanche at Maplewood. Poor little White Mayflower, it won't
be for want of liking on her part, and she so blushes and watches
when Hector comes near, that I sometimes think that he might have said
something like it to her
The fact is, that he would like to be
ordained where he is to work; but I believe they do not like to say
anything about the wedding because of me. Now, of all persons, I must
chiefly rejoice in what may help to teach in those islands. I cannot
bear to be a hindrance. Whatever happens, Aunt Flora, will you take care
that they know this
Besides
it has been good for him to have been gradually weaned from depending
on me, so that it is Ethel who is really necessary to him
If I could see poor Flora comforted, or if even she would only let me
enter into her troubles
I should be content
Ha! he is come then! At least, I see
the little thing has found
Something extremely unlike itself
Something
I could easily set down as a student at Edinburgh; thirty years ago.
That's the very smile! I remember dear Maggie being more angry than I
ever saw her before, because Mr. Fleet said that you smiled to show your
white teeth
That is the best shadow of Maggie I ever saw
She has
taught the lad to smile. That is what I call a pretty sight
Come, Richard, it is a shame for old folks like us to stand spying
them
They care very little for me
but I shall have them
in. Cold winds blowing about that little head! Ah! here they are. Fine
leaves you gather, miss! Very red and brown
No, not the Bucephalus, a marriage in high life, a
relation
Not poor Mary
Mary! what could make you think of her
As a hen thinks of her ducklings when they go into waters beyond her
ken
Well, as long as it is not Mary, I don't care
High life
Oh, it can be only Agatha Langdale
There's only Lord Cosham further to guess
Eh! why not young Ogilvie
I am right, I see. Well, who
is the lady
A Miss Dunbar -- a nice girl that I met at Glenbracken. Her property fits
in with theirs, and I believe his father has been wishing it for a long
time
It does not sound too romantic
He writes as if he had the sense of having been extremely dutiful
No doubt thinking it needful in addressing a namesake, who has had an
eye to the main chance
Don't throw stones, young
people
Well
he did not look as if he would go and do such a
stupid thing as that
Probably, it is anything but a stupid thing
You are using him very ill among you
I believe
her to be excellent in every way; he has known her from childhood;
he writes as if he were perfectly contented, and saw every chance of
happiness
None the less for having followed his father's wishes -- I am glad he
did
I dare say you are right
but I am disappointed in
him. He always promised to come and stay with you, and made such friends
at Oxford, and he never came
I fancy there was a good deal to hinder him
You may defend Mr. Ogilvie, Norman, but it is not what I should have
expected from him. Why did he make promises, and then neglect his
relations
I believe that conscientiously he did not dare to come
I know that he was greatly struck with Ethel at the time of the
Commemoration, and therefore I could never again press him to come
here
Oh, Norman, you hard-hearted monster! What a bad conductor
I do not wish to be a conductor
If you had seen
Glenbracken and the old people, you would perceive that it would not
have been suitable on our part to promote anything of the kind
Would they have been so violent
Not violent, but it would have been a severe struggle. They are good,
kind people, but with strong prejudices; and, though I have no doubt
they would have yielded to steady attachment on their son's part,
and such conduct as Ethel's would have been, I could not lead in that
direction
Is that pride, Norman
I hope not
It is doing by others as you were doing by yourself
but, after all, if he had no constancy, Ethel had an escape
I was afraid that she had been rather touched, but I am glad to find
myself mistaken
If you thought so, how could you make such a public announcement
I had made myself so nervous as to the effect, that,
in desperation, I took her own way, and came out at once with it as
unconsciously as I could
Very naturally you acted unconsciousness! It was better than insulting
her by seeming to condole. Not that I do, though, for she deserves more
steadiness than he has shown! If a man could appreciate her at all, I
should have thought that it would have been once and for ever
Remember, he had barely known her a fortnight, and probably had no
reason to believe that he had made any impression on her. He knew how
such an attachment would grieve his parents, and, surely, he was acting
dutifully, and with self-denial and consideration, in not putting
himself in the way of being further attracted
Umph! You make a good defence, Norman, but I cannot forgive him for
marrying somebody else, who cannot be Ethel's equal
She is a good little girl; he will form her, and be very happy; perhaps
more so than with a great soul and strong nature like Ethel's
Only he is a canny Scot, and not a Dr. Spencer
Too short acquaintance! besides, there were the parents. Moreover, what
would become of home without Ethel
The unanswerable argument to make one contented
And,
certainly, to be wife to a Member of Parliament is not so very
delightful that one would covet it for her
Any more than she does for herself
Oh, it is so nice to be at home again
so funny
In spirit with us
Flora dear
do you dislike having the window opened
You always spoiled me
Come
and lie down by me. It is very nice to have you here
It is like the
old times to have you here taking care of me
Very unlike them in some ways
It has been a great renewal of still older times
to
have Aunt Flora here. I hope you will get to know her, Flora, it is
so like having mamma here
Hark
The bells -- his bells
Alan! Alan
It is enough! I am ready
Let us
follow the service. It will be best for us both
If they return to Thee with all their
heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, whither
they have carried them captives, and pray toward their land, which Thou
gavest unto their fathers, and toward the City which Thou hast chosen,
and toward the House which I have built for Thy Name; then hearing from
the Heavens, even from Thy dwelling-place
Margaret!
Margaret! pray for me, for it is a hard captivity, and my heart is very,
very sore. Oh! pray for me, that it may all be forgiven me -- and that I
may see my child again
My Flora; my own poor, dear Flora! do I not pray? Oh! look up, look up.
Think how He loves you. If I love you so much, how much more does not
He? Come near me, Flora. Be patient, and I know peace will come
Oh, Miss Ethel
if Miss May could only have been here
Her heart is
Well, ma'am, I believe it is. You would not think, ma'am, how all the
children take heed to anything about her. If I only begin to say 'Miss
May told me --' they are all like mice
She has done more for the real good of Cocksmoor than any one else
she had never seen nothing like it since the Jubilee,
when the squire roasted an ox whole, and there wasn't none of it fit to
eat; and when her poor father got his head broken. Well, to be sure,
who would have thought what would come of Sam's bringing in the young
gentleman and lady to see her the day her back was so bad
Ethel, I must
carry you away
my poor girl at
home is not so well
Cocksmoor really has a church
at the fun
It was a much worse attack than usual, and it did not go off
It won't do -- I believe it
is the death-stroke
Not immediate
No
Will there be no rally
Probably not
the brain is generally reached at this
stage. I have seen it coming for a long time. The thing was done seven
years ago. There was a rally for a time when youth was strong; but
suspense and sorrow accelerated what began from the injury to the
spine
I do
not think there will be much acute suffering
I fear it may be as trying
May God make it easy to her, and
grant us 'patient hearts.' We will not grudge her to all that she loves
best, my Ethel
I shall
be here to-morrow
it will be soon
over
it will soon be over
Ethel, she is going
Papa
dear papa
Mamma! Alan! oh, there they are! More! more
Over now
I say, sir
do you
belong to Dr. May
Then, maybe, sir, you have heard of one Bill Jennings
What could he
do for him
Come and see if you can do anything to soothe her
The first sight of the baby has put her into such a state of
agitation, that we do not know what to do with her
Now it is pardon -- now I can die
The cloud is gone! Thanks for that above all
Now, my dear, rest in thankful gladness -- you are too weak to talk or
think
I am weak -- I am tired of it all
I am glad to be going
while I am so happy -- there are Margaret -- my own darling -- rest -- peace
You are not going, dearest
at least, I trust not,
if you will not give way; here is a darling given to you, instead of the
first, who needs you more
Tell Ethel she will be the best mother to her. Name
her Margaret -- make her a Daisy of your own -- don't call her after me
Don't cry, Flora
I think that the blessings of
St. Andrew's Day helped us through what was to follow
I am going to work again! Tell me
what will be most useful to you at Cocksmoor
See what my perseverance has wrought
You will go
I ought
I believe I ought, and if it had only been at
any other time, it would have been easy. My aunt's company would have
been such a comfort for you
It cannot be helped
Considering the circumstances
I believe I should be justified
in waiting till such time as you could go with me. I could see what Mr.
Wilmot thinks
You don't think so yourself
Nobody else can give a
judgment. In a thing like this, asking is, what you once called, seeking
opinions as Balaam inquired
Turning my words against me
Still, Meta,
perhaps older heads would be fitter to judge what would be right for a
little person not far off
She can be the best judge of that herself
Norman
I always resolved that, with
God's help, I would not be a stumbling-block in the way of your call
to your work. I will not. Go out now -- perhaps you will be freer for it
without me, and I suppose I have a longer apprenticeship to serve to all
sorts of things before I come to help you
Oh, Meta, you are a rebuke to me
What? when I am going to stay by my own fireside
Seriously, I have much to do here.
When poor Flora gets well, she must be spared all exertion for a long
time to come; and I flatter myself that they want me at Stoneborough
sometimes. If your father can bear to spare you, there is no doubt that
you ought to go
My father is as unselfish as you are, Meta. But I cannot speak to
him until he is more easy about Flora. We always think the required
sacrifice the hardest, but I must own that I could not grieve if he laid
his commands on me to wait till the autumn
Oh, that would make it a duty and all easy
but
I don't think he will; and Aunt Flora will be only too glad to carry you
out without encumbrance
Has not Aunt Flora come to her senses about you
I believe she would rather I belonged to any of her nephews but
you. She is such a dear, sincere, kind-hearted person, and we are so
comfortable together, that it will be quite like home to come out to
her! I mean there, to convince her that I can be of something like use
Indeed
But that is a great pity
I thought you would be
glad
Did you think me so hard-hearted
I thought you believed he would be better without me
My dear, we have not kept house and nursed together for a month for
nothing
Thank you
You have taken a
load off me
I don't like it at all
It is a very uncomfortable
plan for every one. And yet when I know how great is the want of him out
there, I can say nothing against it without high treason. Well, my dear,
I'll take all the care I can of Norman, and when you come, I shall be
almost as glad as if we were coming home for good. Poor Flora! she is
one person who will not regret the arrangement
Poor Flora!-- you think her really better this evening
Much better, indeed; if we could only raise her spirits, I think she
would recover very well; but she is so sadly depressed. I must try to
talk to Ethel -- she may better understand her
I have never understood Flora
She has been as kind to
me as possible, and I very soon came to a certain point with her, but
I never have known her thoroughly. I doubt whether any one did but dear
Margaret
How does the dear Ethel look
She is looking better to-day; she has looked very worn and harassed,
but I thought her brighter to-day. She walked over by Aubrey on his
pony, and I think it did her good
Dear old Ethel! Aunt, it is a thing that no one has told me yet. Can
you tell me how she bore the news of Norman Ogilvie's engagement
Do you mean
Yes
But I thought young Ogilvie a most unexceptionable person
So he is
I was much annoyed at the time, but she was
resolute
In rejecting him
In running away as soon as she found what was likely to happen
Then it was entirely out of devotion to your father
Entirely
No one could look at her without seeing that
she liked him. I had left her to be the only effective one at home, and
she sacrificed herself
I am glad that I have seen her
I should never have
understood her by description. I always said that I must come home to
set my correspondence going rightly
Aunt Flora
do you remember my dear mother's
unfinished letter to you
To be sure I do, my dear
Nothing ever was more true
I read it over some little
time ago, when I set my papers in order, and understood it then. I never
did before. I used to think it very good for the others
It is what one generally does with good advice
Do you recollect the comparison between Norman, Ethel, and me? It is
so curious. Norman, who was ambitious and loved praise, but now dreads
nothing so much; Ethel, who never cared for anything of the kind, but
went straight on her own brave way; and oh! Aunt Flora -- me
Indeed, my dear, I should have thought you had her most full
approbation
Ah! don't you see the tone, as if she were not fully satisfied, as if
she only could not see surface faults in me
and how she
said she dreaded my love of praise, and of being liked. I wonder how
it would have been if she had lived. I have looked back so often in the
past year, and I think the hollowness began from that time. It might
have been there before, but I am not so sure. You see, at that dreadful
time, after the accident, I was the eldest who was able to be efficient,
and much more useful than poor Ethel. I think the credit I gained made
me think myself perfection, and I never did anything afterwards but seek
my own honour
You do not know
how greedy I was of credit and
affection. It made me jealous of Ethel herself, as long as we were in
the same sphere; and when I felt that she was more to papa than I could
be, I looked beyond home for praise. I don't think the things I did were
bad in themselves -- brought up as I have been, they could hardly be so. I
knew what merits praise and blame too well for that -- but oh! the motive.
I do believe I cared very much for Cocksmoor. I thought it would be a
grand thing to bring about; but, you see, as it has turned out, all
I thought I had done for it was in vain; and Ethel has been the real
person and does not know it. I used to think Ethel so inferior to me.
I left her all my work at home. If it had not been for that, she might
have been happy with Norman Ogilvie -- for never were two people better
matched, and now she has done what I never thought to have left to
another -- watched over our own Margaret. Oh! how shall I ever bear to see
her
My dear, I am sure nothing can be more affectionate than Ethel. She
does not think these things
She does
She always knew me better than I did myself.
Her straightforward words should often have been rebukes to me. I shall
see in every look and tone the opinion I have deserved. I have shrunk
from her steadfast looks ever since I myself learned what I was. I could
not bear them now -- and yet -- oh, aunt, you must bring her! Ethel! my
dear, dear old King -- my darling's godmother -- the last who was with
Margaret
I shall take you
in without any preparation
that she may not have time to be
flurried. Only, be quiet and natural
I have brought Ethel to you
Ethel! oh
There
now, if you will be good, I will
leave you alone. Nurse is by to look after you, and you know she always
separates naughty children
Flossy
King
I can't see you
Why, Flora,
you look like a little white shadow
I have had such weak eyes
and this dim light is
comfortable. I see your old sharp face quite plain
But what can you do here
Do? Oh, dear Ethel, I have not had much of doing. Papa says I have
three years' rest to make up
Poor Flora
but I should have thought it tiresome,
especially for you
I have only now been able to think again
and you will
say I am taking to quoting poetry. Do you remember some lines in that
drama that Norman admired so much
Philip von Artevelde
Yes. I can't recollect them now, though they used to be always running
in my head -- something about time to mend and time to mourn
These
He that lacks time to mourn, lacks time to mend.
               Eternity mourns that
I never had time before for either
You cannot think
how I used to be haunted by those, when I was chased from one thing to
another, all these long, long eighteen months. I am in no haste to take
up work again
Mending as well as mourning
And now you have that dear little Christmas gift to
She is not nearly so fine and healthy as her sister was
poor little dear. You know, Ethel, even now, I shall have very little
time with her in that London life. Her papa wants me so much, and I must
leave her to -- to the nurses
Our own dear old nurse
Oh! I wanted to thank you all for sparing her to us
George wished it so much. But how does poor little Daisy bear it
Very magnanimously
In fact, nurse has had but
little to do with Daisy of late, and would have been very forlorn at
home. It is better for Aubrey and for her, not to return to be babies
to comfort poor nurse. I have been breaking up the nursery, and taking
Gertrude to live with me
Have you gone back there again
It would not have been better for waiting
and Gertrude
was so proud to come to me. I could not have done it without her, but
papa must not have vacancy next to him
It has been hard on you for me to engross him
but oh,
Ethel, I could not spare him. I don't think even you can tell what papa
is
You have found it out
And my aunt
that I should have taken up such a
great piece of her short visit
Ah! it is coming to an end very fast
but you
had the best right to her, and she and Meta have seen so much of each
other. She tells me she is quite satisfied about Meta now
I am sorry to see Meta looking out of spirits
I almost
made her cry by saying something about Norman. Is there anything going
wrong
Only about Norman's going
out
This will never do
They must marry, and go with my aunt
They would not hear of it now
They must. It is the only reasonable thing. Why, Norman would be
miserable, and as to Meta -- Imagine his going out and returning -- a year's
work, such an expense and loss of time, besides the missing Aunt Flora
If it were not wrong
The waste would be the wrong thing. Besides
But, Flora, think -- the last week in February -- and you so ill
I am not to marry them
If it could be in a
fortnight, they could go and get their outfit afterwards, and come
back to us when I am stronger. Let me see -- there need be no fuss about
settlements -- Mr. Rivers's will arranges everything for her
It would be a good thing to get rid of a fine wedding
but they will never consent
Yes, they will, and be grateful
Papa would be happier about Norman
but I cannot fancy
his liking it. And you -- you can't spare Meta, for Aunt Flora must go to
the Arnotts' in a week or two more
Suppose papa was to let me have you
If he wants you, he
must come after you
If I am not too awkward for you, dear Flora. You will miss
Meta terribly
I can't keep the humming-bird caged, with her heart far away
very glad -- she meant she was very glad there would
be nobody there
natives
Fear not
They are your duty
Duty brings peace
They were not
They are now
Dinners and parties, empty talk and vain show
Are you come to their defence, Ethel? If you could guess how sick one
gets of them, and how much worse it is for them not to be hateful!
And to think of bringing my poor little girl up to the like, if she is
spared
If they are not duties, I would not do them
Ethel
I
will say it to you! What should you think of George resigning his seat,
and living in peace here
Would he
If I wished it
But what would he do with himself
Yachting, farming, Cochin-Chinese -- or something
Anything
not so wearing as this
That abominable candidate of Tomkins's would come in
Oh, Flora, that would be horrid
That might be guarded against
Perhaps Sir Henry -- But oh!
let us leave politics in peace while we can. I thought we should do some
great good, but it is all a maze of confusion. It is so hard to know
principles from parties, and everything goes wrong! It is of no use to
contend with it
It is never vain to contend with evil
We are not generalising
There is evil nearer home
than the state of parties, and I can't see that George's being in
Parliament -- being what he is -- is anything like the benefit to things
in general -- that it is temptation and plague to me, besides the risk of
London life for the baby, now and hereafter
I can't say that I think it is
How nice it would be to
have you here! I am so glad you are willing to give it up
It would have been better to have given it up untasted -- like Norman
I will talk to George
But, Flora
you ought not to do such a
thing without advice
There will be worry enough before it is done
No fear
of that
Stop a minute
I think you ought to consider well before
you set it going
Have not I longed for it day and night? It is an escape from peril for
ourselves and our child
I can't be sure
It may be more wrong to make George
desert the post which
Which I thrust him into
My father told me as much
I did not mean you to say that! But it is a puzzle. It seems as if it
were right to give up such things; yet, when I recollect the difficulty
of carrying an election right at Stoneborough, I think papa would be
very sorry. I don't think his interest would bring in any sound man but
his son-in-law; and George himself seems to like his parliamentary life
better than anything else
Yes
Then
I don't think it is
for his dignity, for you to put him into Parliament to please you and
then take him out to please you
I'll take care of his dignity
I know you would do it well
I am sick of doing things well
You little know how
I dread reading up all I must read presently! I shall lose all I have
scarcely gained. I cannot find peace any way, but by throwing down the
load I gave my peace for
Whether this is truth or fancy
If you would
ask some one competent
Don't you know there are some things one cannot ask
I
don't know why I spoke to you! Ah! come in! Why, George, that is a finer
egg than ever
And this is our senator
I wonder whether Honorius's
hen was a Shanghai! Poor Flora is right -- it is poor work to make a silk
purse out of a sow's ear! but, putting him into the place is one thing,
taking him out another. I wish she would take advice; but I never knew
her do that, except as a civil way of communicating her intentions.
However, she is not quite what she was! Poor dear! Aunt Flora will never
believe what a beautiful creature she used to be! It seems wrong to
think of her going back to that horrid London; but I can't judge. For
my part, I'd rather do work, than no work for George, and he is a good,
kind-hearted fellow after all! I won't be a crab
Meta set him upon this
I hope you will go, Ethel. You
see he can be very happy here
Still
the more I think, the more sure I am that you
ought to ask advice
I have asked yours
You
don't know what to say -- I shall do what I see to be the only way to
rest
I do know what to say
and that is, do as the Prayer-book
tells you, in any perplexity
I am not perplexed
Don't say so. This is either the station to which God has called you,
or it is not
He never called me to it
But you don't know whether you ought to leave it. If you ought not, you
would be ten times more miserable. Go to Richard, Flora -- he belongs to
you as much as I -- he has authority besides
Richard
He is the clearest of us all in practical matters
I don't mean only that
you should ask him about this Parliament matter alone; but I am sure
you would be happier and more settled if you talked things over with him
before -- before you go to church
You don't know what you propose
I do
You have been going all this time
by feeling. You have never cleared up, and got to the bottom of, your
troubles
I could not talk to any one
Not to any one but a clergyman. Now, to enter on such a thing is most
averse to your nature; and I do believe that, for that very reason, it
would be what would do you most good. You say you have recovered sense
of -- Oh, Flora! I can't talk of what you have gone through; but if you
have only a vague feeling that seems as if lying still would be the only
way to keep it, I don't think it can be altogether sound, or the 'quiet
conscience' that is meant
Oh, Ethel! Ethel! I have never told you what I have undergone, since I
knew my former quietness of conscience was but sleep! I have gone on in
agony, with the sense of hypocrisy and despair, because I was afraid,
for George's sake, to do otherwise
poor Ethel
I did it, Ethel! I have
spoken to Richard
I am so glad
You were right. He is as clear as he is kind
he showed
me that, for George's sake, I must bear with my present life, and do the
best I can with it, unless some leading comes for an escape; and that
the glare, and weariness, and being spoken well of, must be taken as
punishment for having sought after these things
I was afraid he would say so
But you will find happiness
again, Flora dear
Scarcely -- before I come to Margaret and to my child
I
suppose it was Mercy that would not let me follow when I wished it. I
must work till the time of rest comes
And your own little Margaret will cheer you
Well, humming-birds must be let fly
Ah! ha! Meta,
are they of no use
Stay till you hear
Oh! how I have thanked you, Ethel, for those first hints you gave me
how to make my life real. If I had only sat still and wished, instead of
trying what could be done as I was, how unhappy I should have been
Come, take your sprite away, Norman, if you don't want me to keep her
for good! God bless you, my dear children! Good-bye! Who knows but when
Doctor Tom sets up in my place, Ethel and I may come out and pay you a
visit
What is that to me? What will it be when it is
over? My course and aim are straight on, and He will direct my paths.
I don't know that I shall be alone, and I shall have the memory -- the
communion with them, if not their presence. Some one there must be to be
loved and helped, and the poor for certain. Only I must have my treasure
above, and when I think what is there, and of -- Oh! that bliss of being
perfectly able to praise -- with no bad old self to mar the full joy of
giving thanks, and blessing, and honour, and power! Need I dread a few
short years?-- and they have not begun yet -- perhaps they won't -- Oh! here
is actually papa coming home this way! how delightful! Papa, are you
coming to church here
Ay, Ethel. That weathercock of Spencer's is a magnet, I believe! It
draws me from all parts of the country to hear Richard in St. Andrew's
Church
</text>
