<text>
Do right, and thou hast nought to fear,
  Right hath a power that makes thee strong;
  The night is dark, but light is near,
  The grief is short, the joy is long
God is God, and right is right,
  And truth the day must win;
  To doubt would be disloyalty,
  To falter would be sin
Open the door! do you hear
All right
I know who you are, you cads.  See if I
don't tell Dr Senior
Oh, please, I say, I shall lose my train
Wait till I get out; see if I don't kick your shins
raised the
siege
A Nightingale Scholarship, value 50 pounds a year for three years, will
fall vacant at Michaelmas.  Boys under seventeen are eligible.
Particulars and subject of examination can be had any evening next week
in the secretary's room
Fifty-pounds a year _for_ three years
I wouldn't mind getting that
Well, why don't you, you avaricious young Jew?  You're under seventeen,
I suppose
This Society will meet on Tuesday.  Subject for debate, &bquo;That the
present age is degenerate,' moved by A.E. Callander, opposed by T.
Winter.  Boys from the Senior Fifth are invited as auditors
That the present age is degenerate
That the present
Sixth is degenerate
there would
be a row about it
Wanted, a Smart Fag.  No Tadpoles or Guinea-pigs need apply.  Horace
Wraysford, Fifth Form
Bravo, Horatius
A lucky young cub it will be that he
takes on
He'll
do your sums and look over your exercises for you like one o'clock.
Ugh! though, I suppose every man Jack of you is a Tadpole or a Pig
Cricket Notices.  To-morrow will be a final big practice, when the
elevens for the &bquo;A to M _versus_ N to Z' match on the 25th will be
chosen.  &bquo;Sixth _versus_ School' will be played on the 1st proxo.  The
School Eleven will be selected from among players in the two above
matches
A private meeting of the Fifth will be held this afternoon at 4.30 to
discuss an important matter
Hullo
it's half-past now!
Come along, Rick
private and important
business
The fact is, you fellows
I wanted to ask your opinion
about a little idea of my own.  You know the _Sixth Form Magazine_
Rather
awful rubbish too!  Papers a mile long in it
about Greek roots; and poetry about the death of Seneca, and all that
sort of thing
That's just it
it's rubbish, and unreadable; and
though they condescend to let us see it, I don't suppose two fellows in
the Form ever wade through it
I know _I don't_, for one
I _did_ make a
start at that ode on the birth of Senior junior in the last, which began
with --

  "&bquo;Hark, 'tis the wail of an infant that wakes the still echoes of
  lofty Olympus,'

"but I got no farther
Yes
Wren wrote that.  I felt it my duty to
challenge him for insulting the family, you know.  But he said it was
meant as a compliment, and that the Doctor was greatly pleased with it
Well
they won't allow any of us to
contribute.  I suggested it to the editor, and he said (you know his
stuck-up way), &bquo;They saw no reason for opening their columns to any but
Sixth Form fellows.'  So what I propose is, that we get up a paper of
our own
Upon my word, it's a splendid idea
We've as good a right, you know
as they have, and
ought to be able to turn out quite as respectable a paper
Rather
if you'll only get the fellows to write
Oh, I'll manage that
Of course you'll have to be editor, Tony
If you like
Well, I call that a splendid idea
Won't they be in a
fury?  (Look here, Senior, I wish you wouldn't stick your pins into my
neck, do you hear
What shall we call it
Ah, yes
we ought to give it a good name
Call it the _Senior Wrangler_
Sounds too like a family concern
Suppose we call it the _Fifth Form War Whoop_
Or the _Anti-Sixth_
Not at all
What's
the use of making fools of ourselves?  Call it the _Dominican_, and let
it be a paper for the whole school
Greenfield is right
If we can make it a regular
school paper it will be a far better slap at the Sixth than if we did
nothing but pitch into them.  Look here, you fellows, leave it to me to
get out the first number.  We'll astonish the lives out of them -- you
see
The first number of the _Dominican_ will appear on the 24th inst
What does it mean
there's no name to it
I suppose it's another prank of the Fifth.  By the way, do you see how
one of them has altered this debating society notice
Upon my word
they are getting far too impudent.  I must send a monitor to
complain of this
Well, I see the Nightingale is vacant at last.  Of course you are going
in, old man
Yes, I suppose so; and you
Oh, yes.  I'll have a shot, and do my best
I don't mean to let you have it, though
for the
money would be valuable to me if I ever go up to Oxford
Just the reason I want to get it
By the
way, when is your young brother coming
This week, I expect
I wonder if he'll fag for me
You'd better ask the captain about that.  I can't
answer for him.  But I must be off now.  Good-night
Good-Bye, my boy; God bless you! and don't forget to tell the
housekeeper about airing your flannel vests
Glide along, my bonny boat
Hullo! here you are!  Tumble out
I'll send up your traps by the carter; we can walk
Is it far
Only a mile
come on.  Hullo, Rick, where have you been
to
Oh! to Sherren's about my togs.  I wanted them for the match to-morrow,
you know.  I've told him if he doesn't send them up in time we'll all
get our things made in London, so I guess he'll hurry himself for once.
Oh, look here! did you get a paper with the result of the American
match?  Bother!  Here, you kid, what's your name, cut back to the
station and get a daily.  Look sharp!  Bring it to me in my room.  Come
on, Greenfield
This is my young brother, Rick, just come
Oh, I beg your pardon
I'll go
No, I'll go
much obliged to him
By the way
I ought to get my togs up too.
Bother that Sherren!  I say, Rick, see my young brother up to the
school, will you? while I cut back; he can wait in my study
Here, Tony
do you
mind showing this kid the way up?  I have to go back with Wren.  There's
a good fellow
Well, that's cool
I'm not a kid-conductor!
Come on, youngster; I suppose you haven't got a name, have you
Yes, Stephen Greenfield
Oh, brother of our dear friend Oliver; I hope you'll turn out a better
boy than him, he's a shocking character
I'm sure he doesn't mean to do what's
wrong
That's just it, my boy.  If he doesn't mean to do it, why on earth does
he do it?  I shall be sorry if he's expelled, very sorry.  But come on;
don't mind if I walk too fast
I'm lame, you see
You are quite sure you
see?  Look at my left leg
I see
I -- I hope it doesn't hurt
Only when I wash my face.  But never mind that Vulcan was lame too, but
then he never washed.  You know who Vulcan was, of course
No, I don't think so
Not know Vulcan!  My eye! where have you been brought up?  Then of
course you don't know anything about the Tenth Fiji War?  No?  I thought
not.  Dreadful!  We shall have to see what you do know.  Come on
Here
is your brother's study.  Sit here till he
returns, and make the most of your time, for you'll have to put your
best foot foremost to-morrow in the Doctor's examination
Hullo!  What do you want
I'm waiting for my brother
Who's your brother
Oliver Greenfield
Oh, all right! you can get his tea as well as I can; you'll find all
the things in the cupboard there.  And look here, tell him Bullinger
wants to know if he can lend him some jam -- about half a pint, tell him
Tell him I'll _owe_ it him
Well, here you are
Wray, this
is my young brother, just turned up
How are you
I heard you were coming.  Have you
Oh
If
that young wretch Paul hasn't been and made my tea with coal-dust and
cold water!  I'd like to scrag him!  And -- upon my word -- oh, this is too
much!-- just look, Wray, how he's laid the table out!  Those Guinea-pigs
are beyond all patience.  Where _is_ the beggar
Oh
it wasn't him.  I made the tea.  The boy told
me to, and I didn't know the way.  I had to guess
A pretty good guess, too, youngster
When you come
and fag for me I'll give you a few lessons to begin with
Oh! by the way, Wray
that's all knocked on the head.
Loman makes out the captain promised him the first new boy that came.
I'm awfully sorry
Just like Loman's cheek.  I believe he did it on purpose to spite me or
you.  I say, Greenfield, I'd kick-up a row about it if I were you
What's the use, if the captain says so
Besides,
Loman's a monitor, bad luck to him
Loman's a fellow I don't take a great fancy to
I
wouldn't care for a young brother of mine to fag to him
You are prejudiced, old man
But I wish all the same
Stephen was to fag for you.  It's a pity, but it can't be helped
I'll speak to the captain, anyhow
You'd better stick about in my room while I'm in school
and then you can come down to the cricket-field and see the practice.
By the way, some of the fellows may be in to bag my ink; they always run
short on Friday; but don't let them take it, for I shall want it
to-night.  Ta, ta; give my love to the _mater_ if you're writing home.
I'll be back for you after the twelve bell
Hullo
Where's Greenfield
He's in school
Hullo! what are you blubbering at
eh
I suppose you are a new kid, just left your mammy
what's your name, young 'un
Stephen Greenfield
Oh, my! is it?  What form are you in
I don't know yet
Haven't you been examined
No, not yet
Oh, of course; old Senior's away.  Never mind, you'll catch it
to-morrow, blub-baby
I suppose they call you Steenie at home
No, they don't
mother calls me Steevie
Oh, Steevie, does she?  Well, Steevie, were you ever licked over the
knuckles with a ruler
No
why
Because you will be -- I know who'll do it, too, and kick you on the
shins, too, if you're cheeky
_You_
won't
Won't I? that's all! you
see, you pretty little blubber boy!  Yow-ow-ow! little sneak! why don't
you cut behind your mammy's skirt, if you're afraid?  I would cry if I
were you.  Where's his bottle?  Poor infant!  Yow-ow-boo-boo
Wretched little sneak
I suppose he'll go
peaching to his big brother.  Never mind, _we'll_ pay you out, see if we
don't!  Go and kiss your mammy, and tell your big brother what they did
to little duckie Steevie, did they then? they shouldn't!  Give him a
suck of his bottle! oh, my
I want that inkpot
What for
What's that to you? give it up
I shan't give it up; Oliver said it was not to be taken
What do you say
It's my brother's ink, and I'm not to give it up
I'll kick you on the legs if you don't give it up
What are you doing here
Nothing
Yes, he is
he's been trying to take, away Oliver's
ink
Silence, young gentleman, pray
Oh, so you've been trying to bag some
ink, have you
Well, I only wanted a little; and this
Silence! how much ink did you want
Only half a potful
You shall have half a potful
Come here
Now, Master Greenfield
have the
kindness to hand me the ink
Do you hear
Do you hear
Oliver said I wasn't to let it go
Do you hear me, sir
Do you hear? give it up
Now, Master Tadpole, here's your ink; half a pot you said?  Put your
hands behind you, and stir if you dare
Now you can go, sir
Dr
Senior regrets that he should be absent at such an important time in the
history of Saint Dominic's as the day of your arrival, Master
Greenfield, but he will be back to-morrow.  Meanwhile, you are to occupy
yourself with answering the questions on this paper, and take the
answers to the head master's study at ten to-morrow.  Of course you will
not be so dishonourable as to show the questions to any one, not even
your brother, or attempt to get the slightest help in answering them.
Good-bye, my boy.  Don't trouble to stare at my left leg, if it _is_
shorter than the other.  Good-bye
Question 1.  Grammar.  Parse the sentence, &bquo;Oh, ah!' and state the
gender of the following substantives: &bquo;and,' &bquo;look,' &bquo;here
Question 2.  History
Hullo
they don't give many questions in grammar;
that's a good job
Question 2.  History.  Whose daughter was Stephen the Second, and why
was he nicknamed the &bquo;Green
Daughter,' the paper said, should be &bquo;son' of course.  Funny for Dr
Senior to make such a slip
Question 3.  History and Geography.  Who built England? and state the
latitude and longitude of Saint Dominic's, and the boundaries of Gusset
Weir
_However_ am I to know
I was never
here before in my life.  Oh, dear, I shall _never_ pass
Question 4.  Compound Theology.  Give a sketch of the rise and history
of the Dominicans from the time of Herod the Conqueror to the death of
Titmus
Whew
I never heard of Titmus;
it sounds like a Latin name
Question 5.  Pure Theology.  Who was Mr Finis?  Give a list of the
works bearing his signature, with a short abstract of their contents.
What is he particularly celebrated for
Mr Finis
How can they expect a boy like me to
know who he was?  And yet I seem to know the name.  Oh dear me
Question 6, and last but one
That's a comfort
Mathematics.  What is a minus?  Describe its shape, and say how many
are left when the whole is divided by seven.  Reduce your answer to
vulgar decimals
I'm certain I can never do that.  Minus?  Minus?  I know the name, too.
But here's the last
Question 7.  Miscellaneous.  Give a brief history of your own life from
the earliest times, being particular to state your vicious deeds in
chronological order
I can answer that, after a fashion
but I can't even then be sure of all the dates.  As for the
others
What am I to do?  They are all too hard for me.  Oh!  I wish I might
just show them to Oliver.  If I was only at home, mother could help me.
Oh, dear!  I wish I had never come here
Hullo, young 'un; in the dumps?  Never mind; you'll be used to it in a
day or two, won't he, Wray
Of course you will
it's hard lines at
first.  Keep your pecker up, young 'un
I've got to do my exam before ten to-morrow.  Some one brought me up
the paper and said so.  Perhaps I'd better stop here and do it
I thought you weren't to be had up till the Doctor came back.  Who
brought you the paper?  I suppose it was Jellicott, the second master
I suppose so
Let's have a look at it
I promised I wouldn't
Oh, all serene; I only wanted to see the questions.  It's a new dodge
giving papers, isn't it, Wray?  We were examined _viva voce_ in the
Doctor's study.  Well, come on, old man, or we shall be late.  You'll
have lots of time for that this evening
Well bowled, sir
rattling well bowled!  I say
if
Ricketts bowls like that to-day week, the others will be nowhere
Oh
Hullo, young 'un, is that you?  Jolly good play, isn't it?  Who are you
for, A or Z
What do you mean
Mean?  Do you back the A's or the Z's? that's what I mean.  Oh, I
suppose you don't twig, though.  A to M, you know, against N to Z
Oh
I back the A to M's, of course; my brother is in
that half
So he is -- isn't that him going in now?  Yes; you see if Ricketts
doesn't get him out in the first over
He's all right
I guess Raleigh
didn't fancy his balls being licked about like that.  Never
mind -- there goes Braddy in
I declare, the Fifth could lick the Sixth this year, Tom
I'm sure they could; I hope we challenge them
I say, Loman
we were just saying our men could lick
yours all to fits.  Don't you think so yourself
Can't say I do; but you are such a wonderful lot of heroes, you Fifth,
that there's no saying what you couldn't do if you tried
But you take such precious good care we shall not try, that's just it
Never mind, we'll astonish you
some day
Which of you is young Greenfield
I am
Run with this letter to the post, then, and bring me back some stamps
while you are there, and get tea ready for two in my study by half-past
six -- do you hear
I suppose you thought you were going to get off fagging.  I say, you'll
have to take that letter sharp, or you'll be late
Where's the post-office
About a mile down Maltby Road.  Look here, as you are going there, get
me a pound of raisins, will you?-- there's a good chap.  We'll square up
to-night
Oh, are you going to the post?  Look here, young 'un, just call in at
Splicer's about my bat, will you? thanks awfully
mixed sweets, chiefly
peppermint
Got them
How much
Eighteenpence
You duffer!  I didn't mean them -- pudding raisins I meant, about
sixpence.  I say, you'd better take them back, hadn't you
I can't now
I've got to get somebody's tea ready -- I say, where's his study
Whose?  Loman's?  Oh, it's about the eighth on the right in the third
passage; next to the one with the kicks on it.  What a young muff you
are to get this kind of raisin!  I say, you'd have plenty of time to
change them
I really wouldn't
You've chosen the very ones I hate
You said peppermint
But I didn't say green, beastly things
Here,
you can have one of them, it's sure to make you sick
Thank you
What a time you've been
Why couldn't you come straight back with it
The eighth door
on the right; next to the one with the kicks
Perhaps he's cut his name on the door
I'd better look and see if his name is on his collars
Take that, you young thief
I'll teach you to stick your finger in my jam.  What do you mean by
it
I really didn't -- I only wanted -- I was looking for
That'll do; don't tell lies as well as steal; get away
I never stole anything
That'll do.  A little boy like you shouldn't practise cheating.  Off
you go!  If I catch you again I'll take you to the Doctor
Hullo, I say, is tea ready
No
Why ever not, when I told you
Here's an oddity for you!  Why, what's the row, youngster
Nothing
That's a queer thing to howl at.  If you were weeping because you
hadn't made my tea, I could understand it.  Come along, I'll show you
how to do it this time, young greenhorn
Oh, ah
ah
oh
Why
here's a
picture of industry for you, Greenfield.  That young brother of yours is
beginning well
Mr Finis
Let's have a look at the questions
Greenfield junior, where are you
There's Loman wants his tea
cleared away
Come on
or they'll bag our blankets
There's young Bramble got your blanket, Greenfield
pitch
into him
Nix
Look sharp
here comes Rastle
Master Greenfield, junior, is to go to the head master's study at
half-past nine
If I write _something_ down to each
I might happen to get one thing right; it'll be
better than putting down no answer at all
Half-past nine
_ten_
was the time I was told
Who told you
The gentleman who gave me my paper
What paper? you don't have papers.  It's _viva voce_
I've got a paper, anyhow
and a precious hard one, too,
and I've only half done it
Well, you'll have to go at half-past nine, or you'll catch it
I say, there's Loman calling you
Come in, my man.  Let me see; Greenfield?  Oh, yes.  You got here on
Tuesday.  How old are you
Nearly eleven, sir
Just so; and I dare say your brother has shown you over the school, and
helped to make you feel at home.  Now suppose we just run through what
you have learned at home
I'm very sorry, sir
I've not had time
Tut, tut
put that away, and let us get on
It's the paper you gave me
I hope you are not a silly boy
I'm afraid they are all wrong
the questions were --
were -- rather hard
What questions
These you sent me
Hum! some mistake; let's see, perhaps Jellicott -- ah
Question 1.  Grammar
Humph
I'm afraid, Greenfield,
you are not a very clever boy
I know I'm not, sir
Or you would have seen that this paper was a practical joke
Oh,
ah
Come, now, let us waste no more time.  I'm not surprised
I'm not surprised
you found these questions hard.  How far have you got in arithmetic
Tell Mr Rastle kindly to step here
By the way
will you tell
the boy who gave you this paper I wish to see him
Didn't I tell
you ten o'clock, Greenfield
Yes, but the Doctor said half-past nine.  And you are a cad to make a
fool of me
and -- and -- and
Calm yourself, my young friend
It's such a hard thing
to make a fool of you that, you know, and -- and -- and
I shall not speak to you
Oh, don't apologise
Perhaps it would comfort you
to kick me.  Please choose my right leg, as the other is off the ground,
eh
The Doctor wants to speak to you, he says
Do you mean to say he saw the paper, and
you told him
I showed him the paper, because I thought he had sent it; but I didn't
tell him who gave it to me
Then why does he want me
He wants the boy who gave me the paper, that's all he said
Greenfield
I owe
your young brother an apology
What on earth for
I set him an examination paper to answer, which I'm afraid caused him
some labour.  Never mind, it was all for the best
What, did that paper he was groaning over come from you?  What a shame,
Tony, to take advantage of a little beggar like him
I'm awfully sorry, tell him; but I say, Greenfield, it'll make a
splendid paragraph for the _Dominican_.  By the way, are you going to
let me have that poem you promised on the Guinea-pigs
I can't get on with it at all
I'm stuck for a rhyme in
the second line
Oh, stick down anything.  How does it begin
Oh, dwellers in the land of dim perpetual
Very good; let's see; how would this do?--

  "&bquo;I hate the day when first I met you all,
  And this I undertake to bet you all,
  One day I'll into trouble get you all,
  And down the playground steps upset you all,
  And with a garden hose I'll wet you all,
  And then
Oh, look here
that'll do.  You may as well finish the
thing right out at that rate
Not at all, my dear fellow.  It was just a sudden inspiration, you
know.  Don't mention it, and you may like to get off that rhyme into
another.  But I say, Greenfield, we shall have a stunning paper for the
first one.  Tom Senior has written no end of a report of the last
meeting of the Sixth Form Debating Society, quite in the parliamentary
style; and Bullinger is writing a history of Saint Dominic's, &bquo;gathered
from the earliest sources,' as he says, in which he's taking off most of
the Sixth.  Simon is writing a love-ballad, which is sure to be fun; and
Ricketts is writing a review of Liddell and Scott's _Lexicon_; and
Wraysford is engaged on &bquo;The Diary of the Sixth Form Mouse
Good
and what are _you_ writing
Oh, the leading article, you know, and the personal notes, and &bquo;Squeaks
from Guineapigland and Tadpoleopolis,' and some of the advertisements.
Come up to my study, you and Wray, this evening after prayers, I say,
and we'll go through it
perpetual
What on earth have you got there
The _Dominican_, to be sure
Nonsense! you are not going to get it out in that shape
I am, though.  Look here, you fellows
I'll show you
the dodge of the thing.  The different articles will either be copied or
pasted into this big sheet.  You see each of these columns is just the
width of a sheet of school paper.  Well, here's a margin all round -- do
you twig?-- so that when the whole thing's made up it'll be ready for
framing
Framing
To be sure.  I'm getting a big frame, with glass, made for it, with the
title of the paper in big letters painted on the wood.  So the way we
shall publish it will be to hang it outside our class-room, and then
every one can come and read it who likes -- much better than passing it
round to one fellow at a time
Upon my word, Tony, it's a capital notion
it does you credit, my boy
Don't mention it
and don't whack me like that again, or
I'll refuse to insert your &bquo;Diary of the Sixth Form Mouse
But, I say
are you sure they'll allow it to hang
out there?  It may get knocked about
I dare say we may have a row with the monitors about it; but we must
square them somehow.  We shall have to keep a fag posted beside it,
though, to protect it
And to say &bquo;Move on!' like the policemen
Well,
it's evident you don't want any help, Tony, so I'll go
Good-bye; don't ask me to your study for supper, please
I'm awfully sorry, I promised Bullinger.  I know he has a dozen
sausages in his cupboard.  Come along there.  Are you coming,
Greenfield
Horrid young blub-baby
I don't want
you next to me
I can't help it
I was put here
Oh, yes, because you're such an ignorant young sneak; that's why
I suppose that's why you were at the bottom before I came -- oh
Who was that
Now then
sneak away -- tell tales, and get me into
a row -- I'll pay you
It was me
It was I, would be better grammar
Was any one
pinching you
Go it
Say it was me, you
sneak
Oh
Bramble
oblige me by standing on the form for half an hour.
I should be sorry to think you were as objectionable as your name
implies.  Sit down, Greenfield
Please, sir
Greenfield junior is trying
to knock me over
I was not
he was squashing me with his foot, and I
moved it away
Really, Bramble
you are either very unfortunate or
very badly behaved.  Come and stand on this empty form beside my desk.
There will be no danger here of &bquo;squashing' any one's leg or of being
knocked over.  Come at once
strained
Hullo, Greenfield
how are you? and how are you getting on?
I hear you are in the Fourth Junior; all among the Guinea-pigs and
Tadpoles, eh?  Which do you belong to
I don't know
they are going to draw lots for me
to-morrow
That's a nice way of being elected!  I say, have you any classes this
afternoon
No; Mr Rastle has given us a half-holiday
That's just the thing.  I'm going to scull up the river a bit after
dinner, and if you'd like you can come and steer for me
Which way shall you row
Oh, up stream.  Keep close in to the bank, out of the current
Hello, maister
Hullo, Jeff, is Cripps about
Yas; he be inside or somewheres, maister
All right! take the boat up; I want to see Cripps
broader than they were long
Nap
where
there ain't over much use for a
rod
I tell you what, young gentleman
I'll bring it up with me
next time I come, and you shall have a look at it.  Of course, you can
take it or not, as you like, but if my advice is worth anything -- well,
never mind, I suppose you are sure to be up stream in the course of the
next week or so
Oh, yes
when can you bring it
Well, my time ain't so very valuable, and I'd like to oblige you over
this little affair.  Suppose we say to-day week.  I'll have the rod
here, and you can try him
Thank you -- have you -- that is -- about what
You mean, about what figure will he want for it?  Well, I don't know
exactly.  They run so very various, do good rods.  You could get what
they call a rod for ten bob, I dare say.  But _you_ wouldn't hardly
fancy that style of thing
Oh no; if it was a really good one
I wouldn't mind
giving a good price.  I don't want a rotten one
That's just it.  This one I'm telling you of is as sound as a bell, and
as strong as iron.  And _you_ know, as well as I do, these things are
always all the better after a little use.  My friend has only used this
twice.  But I'll find out about the price, and drop you a line, you
know.  May be 2 pounds or 3 pounds, or so
I suppose that's about what a really good rod ought to cost
So it is.  It's just a guess of mine though; but I know for _me_ he'll
put it as low as he can
I'm sure I shall be very much obliged to you
if you can
manage it for me
Not at all, young gentleman.  I always like to oblige where I can;
besides, you would do as much for me, I'll wager.  Well, good-day, Mr --
what's your name
Loman -- at Saint Dominic's.  You'll send me a line, then about the
price
Yes, sir.  Good-day, sir
I want you to run up to Gusset Weir
to fetch me
a rod the keeper's son is getting for me.  Be quick back, will you? and
ask him what the price is
He warn't be long, young maister
Take a seat, do 'ee.  Nice to be a young gemm'un, I
says -- us poor coves as works wery 'ard, we'd like to be young gemm'un
too, with lots o' money, and all so comfortable off.  Why, young
maister, you don't know now what it is to be in want of a shillun.  I
do
Not that I complains o' my lot, young gemm'un
No, I says, the honest working man don't do no good
a-grumblin', but when he's got his famerly to feed
and on'y this here shillin' to do it with
Oh, yes
I like it more than anything
Ah, you should have seen the way we played.  Bless me!  I'd a bat, my
boy, that could tip the balls clean over the school-house.  You've got a
bat, of course, or else
No, I haven't
I shall get one as soon as I can
Well, that _is_ lucky!  Look here, young gentleman
I've taken a fancy to you.  It's best to be plain and
speak out.  I've taken a fancy to you, and you shall have that bat.
It's just your size, and the finest bit of willow you ever set eyes on.
I'll wager you'll make top score every time you use it.  You shall have
it.  Never mind about the stumpy
Stumpy
I don't want stumps, only a bat
What I meant to say was, never mind about the price.  You can give me
what you like for it.  I wish I could make you a present of it.  My eye,
it's a prime bat!  Spliced!  Yes.  Treble-cane, as I'm a poor man.  I'll
send it up to you, see if I don't, and you can pay when you like
If it's awfully dear
I
couldn't afford it.  My pocket-money's nearly all gone
Oh, never mind, not if you don't pay at all
You'll be having more tin soon, I bet
Not till June
Well, leave it till June -- no matter.  But you may as well have the use
of the bat now.  Good-day, Master Green
Greenfield, Stephen Greenfield
Good-day, and give my respects to Mr Loman, and I hope I shall see you
both again
Heads, Guinea-pigs; tails, Tadpoles
Our Special Correspondent in Guinea-pig Land.

"Last night the ceremony of admitting a new member into the ancient and
honourable craft of Guinea-pigs was celebrated with the usual mysteries.
The event took place in the fourth junior class-room.  The Guinea-pigs
assembled in force, with blackened faces and false whiskers.  The lights
being put out, Brother Bilke proposed, and Brother Smudge seconded, the
election of the new aspirant, and the motion being put to the
Guinea-pigs, was received with a unanimous grunt.  The Guinea-pig elect
was then admitted.  He was classically attired in a pair of slippers and
a collar, and the ceremony of initiation at once commenced.  The
candidate was stretched across the lowest desk, face downwards, and in
this position greeted with the flat side of a cricket-bat by the junior
brother present.  He was then advanced to the next desk, where a similar
compliment was paid by the next youngest; and so on to the senior
brother present.  Half way through the ceremony the new member expressed
a desire to withdraw his candidature, but this motion was negatived by a
large majority.  When our reporter left, the ceremony was being repeated
with the round side of the bat.  We understand the new Guinea-pig is
keeping his bed to-day after the exciting ceremony of initiation
Cricket Notice.

"The Alphabet Match will be played on Saturday.  The following are the
two elevens &lsqb;and here the list followed&rsqb;.  Of these twenty-two players,
it is worthy of mention that fourteen are from the Fifth, and only eight
from the Sixth.  What is our Sixth coming to
Sixth Form Debating Society.

"The usual meeting of the Sixth Form Debating Society was held last
week, the Doctor in the chair.  A sprinkling of lads from the Fifth, in
their Sunday coats and collars, was present, by kind permission.  The
subject for discussion was, &bquo;That the present Sixth is degenerate.'  In
the absence of any member of the Sixth to open the discussion, Master
Bramble, captain of the Tadpoles, kindly undertook the task.  He had no
hesitation in asserting that the Sixth were degenerate.  They had fallen
off in cricket since he could remember, and in intellect, he was sorry
to say, the falling off was still worse.  If they would take his advice,
they would avoid the playground during the present season, and by all
means withdraw their candidate for the Nightingale Scholarship, as he
was certain to be beaten by boys in a lower form.  As to behaviour, he
could point to virtuous behaviour among the Tadpoles, quite equal to
that of the monitors.  He didn't wish to ask questions, but would like
to know what they all found so attractive in Maltby.  Then, too, they
all oiled their hair.  No previous Sixth had ever been guilty of this
effeminacy, or of wearing lavender kid gloves on Sundays.  He repeated,
&bquo;What were we coming to
Mr R-g-h opened in the negative.  He denied all the charges made by
the young gentleman who had last spoken.  He undertook to get up an
eleven to beat any eleven the Tadpoles could put into the field; and as
to intellect, why, didn't the Tadpoles, some of them, get their sums
done by the Sixth?  Besides, even if their intellect was weak, couldn't
they use cribs?  He didn't use them himself, but he knew one or two who
did.  He didn't understand the objection to the hair-oil; he used it to
make the hair sit down on his head.  &lsqb;Raleigh, it should be said, had a
most irrepressible bunch of curls on his head.&rsqb;  He wore kid gloves on
Sunday because he had had a pair given him by his great-aunt Jane Ann.
He maintained the Sixth was not degenerate.

"Mr L-m-n followed on the same side.  He thought it the greatest
liberty of any one to discuss the Sixth.  He was a Sixth Form fellow,
and a monitor, and if he wasn't looked up to he ought to be, and he
intended to be.  He was in the cricket eleven, and he was intellectual --
very, very much so.  He was going in for the Nightingale Scholarship,
and had no doubt in his own mind as to the result.  He hardly understood
his friend's reference to Maltby.  Why shouldn't he go there and take
his fag too if he chose?  He didn't see what right the Fifth had to fags
at all.  He had a fag, but then he was in the Sixth.  His fag admired
him, and he never told him not to.  The Sixth _could not_ be degenerate
so long as _he_ was in it
Other speakers followed, including Mr W-r-n, who maintained that
Michael Angelo was a greater musician than Queen Anne.  He was here
called to order, and reminded that Michael Angelo had nothing to do with
the degeneracy of the Sixth.  He begged leave to explain --

"At this point our reporter fell asleep
What is a minus
What is a Minus
Minus' is derived from two English words, &bquo;my,' meaning my, and &bquo;nus,'
which is the London way of pronouncing &bquo;nurse.'  My nurse is a dear
creature; I love her still, especially now she doesn't wash my face.  I
hated having my face washed.  My nurse's name is Mrs Blake, but I
always call her my own Noodle-oodle-oo.  I do love her so!  How I would
like to hug her!  She sewed the strings of my little flannel vest on in
front just before I came here because she knew I couldn't tie them
behind by myself
She didn't
Love-Ballad
A Love-Ballad.

  "I wish I was a buttercup,
  Upon the mountain top,
  That you might sweetly pick me up,
  And sweetly let me drop.
  I wish I was a little worm,
  All rigling in the sun,
  That I myself towards thee might turn
  When thou along didst come.
  Oh, I wish I was a doormat, sweet,
  All prostrate on the floor,
  If only thou wouldst wipe thy feet,
  On me, what could I want more
Diary of the Sixth Form Mouse
Diary of the Sixth Form Mouse.

"Monday.-- Up early and took a good breakfast in one of the desks where
there was a jam sandwich and several toffee-drops.  The Sixth seem to
like jam sandwiches and toffee-drops, there are some of them in nearly
every desk.  The desk I was in had a packet of cigarettes in one corner.
They were labelled &bquo;Mild.'  I wonder why the Sixth like their
cigarettes mild.  In the same desk were one or two books written by a
man called Bohn; they seemed queer books, for they had Latin and Greek
names outside, but all the reading inside was English.  It is sad to see
the quarrelling that goes on in this room.  You would not suppose, to
see these monitors walking grandly up and down the passages striking
terror into the hearts of all the small boys, that they could possibly
condescend to quarrel over the possession of an inkpot or the ownership
of an acid-drop found among the cinders.  Alas! it is very sad.  They
don't seem anything like the Sixth of old days.  I shall emigrate if
this goes on.

"Wednesday.-- A great row to-day when the Doctor was out of the room.
The two senior monitors engaged in a game of marbles -- knuckle down -- in
the course of which one player accused the other of cheating.  There was
nearly a fight, only neither seemed exactly to like to begin, and both
appeared relieved when the Doctor came in and confiscated the marbles
A
gentleman about to clear out his desk, begs to give notice that he will
Sell by Auction to-morrow after &bquo;Lights out,' all those rare and
valuable articles, to wit:-- one and a half gross best cherry-stones,
last year's, in excellent condition.  About twelve assorted bread
crusts, warranted dry and hard -- one with a covering of fossilised
sardine.  Six quires of valuable manuscript notes on various subjects,
comprising Latin, Greek, Mathematics, French, and Crambo.  One apple,
well seasoned, and embellished with a brilliant green fur of two years'
growth.  And many other miscellaneous treasures, such as slate pencils,
nutshells, an antique necktie, several defunct silkworms, a noble
three-bladed knife (deficient of the blades), and half a pound of putty.
No reserve price.  Must be cleared out at whatever sacrifice
This is to give notice, that whereas certain parties calling themselves
Guinea-pigs have infringed on our patent rights, we, the Tadpoles of
Saint Dominic's, have been and are from time immemorial entitled to the
exclusive privilege of appearing in public with dirty faces, uncombed
hair, and inky fingers.  We have also the sole right of making beasts of
ourselves on every possible occasion; and we hereby declare that it is
our intention to institute proceedings against all parties, of whatever
name, who shall hereafter trespass on these our inalienable rights.  By
order, B. Smudgeface and T. Blacknose, Secretaries
There's a great row out in the passage to-day
why can't some of you monitors
keep a little better order?  The Doctor will be wanting to know what
it's all about
All very well
but if the Fifth
will stick their tomfoolery out in the passage, there's sure to be a
row
What tomfoolery?  Some of you are for ever grumbling at the Fifth
And so would you if you saw the complimentary remarks they make about
you in this precious newspaper of theirs
Oh, the _Dominican_?  I must have a look at it by and by; but meanwhile
something had better be done to stop that row, or we shall catch it
ourselves
Oh, you fellows
we can't have that thing of yours hanging
out in the passage like that.  It makes a crowd -- too much row.  Whose is
it
Not mine
ask Bully -- perhaps it's his
Not a bit of it
it's yours, isn't it, Simon
Only part
and I presented that
to the paper
Suppose it was mine
Then
all I can say is, the sooner you
clear it away the better
Oh! all right; only it's not mine
Look here
I'm not going to fool about with you.  You may
think it all very funny, but I'll report it to the Doctor, and then
you'll look foolish
How nice!  So pleasant it will be to look for once like what you look
always
The next time there's a row like that outside our door
we'll -- what do you mean by it, you young
blackguard
There, now!  Do you know this gentleman?  He's a monitor.  Have a good
look at him.  He's been complaining of the row you are making, and quite
rightly.  Take that, and tell all the little Pigs outside that if they
don't hold their noise they will find themselves, every man jack of
them, _mentioned by name_ in the next number
Good-bye
You aren't going to live here, are you
Any one got a toffee-drop
Hadn't you better go
Why didn't you knock him down, I say
Because I did not choose, if you want to know
Oh!  I beg your pardon
I suppose you _will_ fight him
Do you
He ought to be made to fight, whether he likes or not
Some one ought to pay Loman out
if Greenfield
doesn't
A nice name we shall get, all of us
when it gets
abroad all over the school
It's a shame, because one fellow funks, for the whole Form to be
disgraced; that's what I say
Who calls him a coward
I only meant, it looks as
if he didn't like to fight
And what business of yours is it what it looks like
Come, old man
don't eat him up!  I fancy Greenfield
might screw up courage to pull _his_ nose, whoever else he lets off, eh?
It's my private opinion, though, Oliver knew what he was about
Of course he did
he knew jolly well what he was
about
Dear me!  Is that you, Mr Braddy?  I had not noticed you here, or I
should not have ventured to speak on a matter having to do with pluck
and heroism.  I'm glad you agree with me, though, although I didn't say
he knew _jolly_ well what he was about.  That is an expression of your
own
on his own hook
Now they'll pick up
No they won't!  Greenfield senior skies his balls too much for my
taste
Run! no! yes, run
You are a fool
But then
if it's
really a good one, and worth half as much again, it would be a pity to
miss such a bargain
Mr Greenfield,
Saint Dominic's
Oh! that's your young brother's, I expect; he said he had got a bat
coming
All I can say is, he must be more flush of cash than I am, to go in for
a thing like this.  Send him here, Paul
Is this yours
Yes; did Mr Cripps send it
Mr Cripps the lock-keeper
No, his son.  He said he would get it for me.  I say, is that a good
bat, Oliver
Nothing out of the way.  But, I say, young 'un, how much have you given
for it
Not anything yet.  Mr Cripps said I could pay in June, when I get my
next pocket-money
What on earth has he to do with when you get your pocket-money
Who is this young Cripps?  He's a cad, isn't he
He seemed a very nice man
Well, look here! the less you have to do with men like him the better.
What is the price of the bat
I don't know; it's one Mr Cripps had himself when he was a boy.  He
says it's a beauty!  I say, it looks as good as new, Oliver
You young muff
I expect the fellow's
swindling you.  Find out what he wants for it at once, and pay him; I'm
not going to let you run into debt
But I can't; I've only two shillings left
Why, whatever have you done with the five shillings you had last week
I spent sixpence on stamps and
sixpence on -- on brandy-balls
I thought so.  And what did you do with the rest
Oh!  I -- I -- that is -- I -- gave them away
Gave them away!  Who to -- to Bramble
No
I gave them to a poor old
man
Where?-- when?  Upon my word, Stephen, you _are_ a jackass -- who to
I suppose you know a lot of the fellows are very sore at you for not
thrashing Loman
I guessed they would be.  Are you riled, too, Wray
Not I!  I know what _I_ should have done myself, but I suppose you know
your own business best
I was greatly tempted to let out
but the fact is -- I
know you'll jeer, Wray -- the fact is, I've been trying feebly to turn
over a new leaf this term
Oh
And one of the things I wanted to keep out of was losing my temper,
which you know is not a good one
Not at all
Well, if you'll believe me, I've lost my temper oftener in trying to
keep this resolution than I ever remember to have done before.  But on
Friday it came over me just as I was going to thrash Loman.  That's why
I didn't
You
are a rum fellow, Noll
and of course it is
all right; but the fellows don't know your reason, and think you showed
the white feather
Let them think
What do I care what they think
they can think what they like, but they had better let me
alone.  I'd like to knock all their heads together! so I would
Steady, old man
I quite agree with
you.  But I say, Noll, I think it's a pity you don't put yourself right
with them and the school generally, somehow.  Everybody heard Loman call
you a fool yesterday, and you know our fellows are so clannish that they
think, for the credit of the Fifth, something ought to be done
Let them send Braddy to thrash him, then; I don't intend to fight to
please _them_
Oh! that's all right.  And if they all knew what you've told me they
would understand it; but as it is, they don't
They'll find out some day, most likely
I'm not going
to bother any more about it.  I say, Wray, do you know anything of
Cripps's son
Yes.  Don't you know he keeps a dirty public-house in Maltby?-- a
regular cad, they say.  The fishing-fellows have seen him up at the Weir
now and then
I don't know how he came across him, but my young brother has just been
buying a bat from him, and I don't much fancy it
No, the youngster won't get any good with that fellow; you had better
tell him
So I have, and he won't do it again
You're a pretty fellow
not one of our fellows
cares a rush about the _Dominican_ since you made yourself into the
latest sensation
Oh, don't let us have that up again
All very well, but what is to become of the _Dominican_
Oh, have a special extra number about me.  Call me a coward, and a
fool, and a Tadpole, any mortal thing you like, only shut up about the
affair now
Allow me to feel your pulse
Feel away
Hum!  As I feared -- feverish.  Oliver, my boy, you are not well.
Wandering a bit in your mind, too; get to bed.  Be better soon.  Able to
talk like an ordinary rational animal then, and not like an animated
tom-cat.  Good-bye
the better part of valour
theme
Key
crib
Ah, Greenfield, is that you?  Nothing to do, eh?  Come and have tea
with me, will you, in my room
Thank
you
That's right, come along
Make yourself comfortable, my boy, while the tea is brewing
Have you been playing any cricket since you came
Only a little, sir
Well, if you only turn out as good a bat as your brother -- how well he
played in the Alphabet Match
And how do you like Saint Dominic's
I suppose you've made plenty of friends by this time
Oh yes, sir.  It's not as slow as it was at first
That's right.  You'll soon get to feel at home.  And how do you think
you are getting on in class
Not very well, I'm afraid, sir, thank you
Not?  That's a pity.  Are the lessons too hard for you
No, I don't think so -- that is -- no, they're not, sir
Ah, your Latin exercise I thought was very fair in parts to-day
I copied it off Raddleston
Ah
it's a funny thing, now, Greenfield, I
knew that myself.  No two boys could possibly have translated &bquo;nobody'
into &bquo;_nullus corpus_' without making common cause
I'm very sorry I did it.  I won't do it again
That's
right, my boy; Raddleston isn't infallible.  Much better do it yourself.
I venture to say, now, you can tell me what the Latin for &bquo;nobody' is
without a dictionary
_Nemo_
Of course! and therefore if you had done the exercise yourself you
wouldn't have made that horrid -- that fearful mistake
Yes, sir
Come now
I'm not going to scold you.  But
if you take my advice you will try and do the next exercise by yourself.
Of course you can't expect to be perfect all at once, but if you always
copy off Raddleston, do you see, you'll _never_ get on at all
I'll try, sir
I know you will, my boy.  It's not easy work to begin with, but it's
easier far in the long run.  Try, and if you have difficulties, as you
are sure to have, come to me.  I'm always here in the evenings, and
we'll hammer it out between us.  School will not be without its
temptations, and you will find it hard always to do your duty.  Yet you
have, I hope, learnt the power of prayer; and surely the Saviour is able
not only to forgive us our sins, but also to keep us from falling.  At
school, my boy, as elsewhere, it is a safe rule, whenever one is in
doubt, to avoid everything, no matter who may be the tempter, of which
one cannot fearlessly speak to one's father or mother, and above all to
our Heavenly Father.  Don't be afraid of Him -- He will always be ready to
help you and to guide you with His Holy Spirit.  Have another cup of
tea
Come on, quick!  Greenfield junior
What's the row
Row?  Why, what do you think?  Young Bellerby has been doctored for
tying a string across the passage
Had up before the Doctor?  My eye, Bramble
It is your eye indeed!  One of the monitors tripped over it, and got in
a rage, and there's Bellerby now catching it in the Black Hole.  Come on
to the meeting; quick
Here's a go
I wish it had been _me_
I have let them know
_I'd_ have kicked their legs
So would we; kicked their legs
They ought to be hanged
_I'll_ not fag any more for Wren
I'll not fag any more for Greenfield senior
I'll not fag any more for Loman
Why don't some of you put poison in their teas
Or blow them up when they're in bed with gunpowder
Or flay them alive
Or boil them in tar
Or throw them into the lions' den
Those who say we won't stand it any longer
hold up your hands
The next time there's a noise like that
the whole
class will be detained one hour
If young Bellerby has been flogged
I've a good mind to fight every one of them
Yes, every one of them
They're all as bad as each other
_We'll_ let them know
I'll tell you what I've a good mind to -- to -- ur -- ur -- I've a good mind
to -- ugh
Where's young Raddleston?-- What _are_ you young beggars up to?-- is
Raddleston here
Yes
Come here, then
Oh, and Greenfield junior
Loman wants to know when you are going to get his tea; you're to go at
once, he says
gentle craft
Well
well, of all
the grinning jackanapeses, this is the coolest go!  Do you take me for a
fool
I don't know what you
mean
Don't you, my young master?  All right!  Tell Mr Loman I'll wait upon
him one fine day, see if I don't!  Here's me, given up a whole blessed
day to serve him, and a pot of money out of my pocket, and here he goes!
not a penny for my pains!  Chucks the thing back on my 'ands as cool as
a coocumber, all because he's changed his mind.  I'll let him have a bit
of my mind, tell him, Mr Gentleman Schoolboy, see if I don't.  I ain't
a-going to be robbed, no! not by all the blessed monkeys that ever wrote
on slates!  _I'll_ wait upon him, see if I don't
You'll excuse me, young gentleman
but I'm a plain-spoken
man, and I was -- there, I won't deny it -- I was a bit put out about this
here rod first go off.  You'll excuse me -- of course I don't mean no
offence to you or Mister Loman neither, who's one of the nicest young
gentlemen I ever met.  Of course if you'd a' paid seventy bob out of
your own pocket it would give _you_ a turn; leastways, if you was a
struggling, honest working man, like me
That's it
that's it, Benny, my boy, honest Partisans, that's what we is,
who knows what it are to be in want of a shillin' to buy a clo' or two
for the little childer
Never mind him
He's a silly old man, and always
pretends he's starvin'.  If you believe me, he's a thousand pounds
stowed away somewheres.  I on'y wish
he'd give
me a taste of it, for its 'ard, up-'ill work makin' ends meet,
particular when a man's deceived by parties.  No matter.  I'll pull
through; you see
Oh, Mr Cripps, how much is that bat
Bat!  Bless me if I hadn't nearly forgot all about it.  Ain't it a
beauty, now
Yes, pretty well
Pretty well!  I like that.  You must be a funny cricketer, young
gentleman, to call that bat only pretty well.  I suppose you want me to
take _that_ back, too
Oh, no
I only want to know what I am to
pay for it
Oh, come now, we needn't mind about that.  That'll keep, you know.  As
if I wanted the money.  Ha, ha
Please, I want to know the price
As if I was a-going to name prices to a young gentleman like you!
Please yourself about it.  I shall not be disappointed if you gives me
only eighteenpence, and if _you_ thinks twelve bob is handsome, well,
let it be.  _I_ can struggle on somehow
Well, that there bat is worth a guinea, if you want to know, but I'll
say a sovereign for cash down
A sovereign!  I can't pay all that!  I thought it would be about seven
shillings
Did you?  You may think what you like, but that's my price, and you are
lucky to get it at that
I shall have to send it back.  I can't afford so much
Not if I know it!  I'll have none of your second-hand bats, if I know
it.  Come, young gentleman, I may be a poor man, but I'm not a fool, and
you'll find it out if I've any of your nonsense.  Do you suppose I've
nothing to do but wait on jackanapeses like you and your mates?  No
error!  There you are.  That'll do, and if you don't like it -- well, the
governor shall know about it
Ho, he! my young shaver
here you are at
last
Hullo, Cripps, how are
you?  It's a long time since I saw you; jolly day, isn't it
Jolly
Oh, Cripps
Oh, Cripps, about that rod,
by the way.  I hope you didn't mind my sending it back.  The fact is
the fact is, I find I'm to get a present of a
rod this summer at home, or else of course I would have kept it
I hope you got it back all right
They are such fragile things, you know.  I thought
I'd just leave it in the bag and not touch it, but send it straight
back, for fear it should be damaged
Then you
didn't have a look at it even
Well, no, I thought I would -- I thought I wouldn't run any risk
The fact is
the fact is
Love-Ballad
Hullo, Loman, I say, is that you
Oh, Simon, how are you
I've just popped
in to speak to Cripps about a fishing-rod.  You'd better not come in;
you might get into trouble
Oh, never mind.  You won't tell of me, and I won't tell of you.  Glass
of the usual, please, Cripps.  I say, Loman, was that the fishing-rod
you were switching about out of your window that afternoon three weeks
ago
I was below in the garden, you know, and could not make out what you
were up to.  You nearly had my eye out with that hook.  I say, what a
smash you gave it when it caught in the ivy.  Was it broken right off,
or only cracked, eh?  Cripps will mend it for you, won't you, Cripps
You know what it is, then
But how am I to get the 20 pounds?  I daren't ask for it at home, and
there's no one here will lend it me.  Oh, Cripps, what shall I do
Well, look here
that 20 pounds
I must have, there's no mistake about it; but I don't want to be too
hard on you, and I can put you up to raising the wind
Oh, can you
I'll do anything
Very good; then it's just this: I've just got a straight tip about the
Derby that I know for certain no one else has got -- that is, that Sir
Patrick won't win, favourite and all as he is.  Now there's a friend of
mine I can introduce you to, who's just wanting to put a twenty on the
horse, if he can find any one to take it.  It wouldn't do for me to make
the wager, or he'd smell a rat; but if you put your money _against_ the
horse, you're bound to win, and all safe.  What do you say
I don't know anything about betting
Are you quite
sure I'd win
Certain.  If you lose I'll only ask 10 pounds of you, there! that's as
good as giving you 10 pounds myself on the horse, eh
Well
I suppose I must.  Where is he
Wait here a minute, and I'll bring him round
Make it a 50 pounds note while you are about it
No, 20 pounds is all I want to go for
Twenty then, all serene, sir
What'll you take to drink
Nothing, thank you
Good-day, sir
Let them be
what do you want to make a row about it for?
If the boys do mistake them for monitors, so much the less row in the
passages
boilers
Were not these boys fools
What on earth am I to do
I've
not got a single contribution yet.  There's you making out you're too
busy, and Rick the same.  It's all humbug, I know!  What are you busy at
I'd like to know?  I never saw you busy yet
Upon my word, old man
I'm awfully sorry, but I've got a
tremendous lot to do.  I'm going to try for the French prize; I am,
really
And you'll get it, too; rather!  Wasn't it you who translated &bquo;I know
the way to write' into &bquo;_Je non le chemin a writer_' eh?  Oh, stick to
French by all means, Tom; it's in your line!  But you might just as well
write for Number 2
I really can't this time
Wray, old man
you and Noll and I shall have
to do the whole thing between us, that's all about it
Awfully sorry
you'll have to let me off this time.
I'm working like nails for the Nightingale
Bother the Nightingale, I say!  What is it to the _Dominican_?  Come, I
say, old man, that won't do! you aren't going to leave me in the lurch
like all the rest
Oh
I only brought this, if you'll put it in.  I think
it's not bad.  I could make it longer if you like.  I find poetry comes
so easily, you know
Thanks, awfully!  This will
do capitally; it would spoil it to make it any longer.  You're a brick,
Simon!  I wish _I_ could write poetry
Oh, never mind.  I could do some more bits about other things, you
know, if you like
bits
The Sole's Allegery -- a sacred
Poem
Reports of the Sixth Form Debates
Diary of the Sixth Form Mouse
To a Tadpole
Personal Notes
Squeaks from Tadpoleopolis
sporting style
At 4.30, sharp, the leather was taken into custody by &bquo;Gamey' Raikes,
at the wash-house end, who tried what his artful &bquo;yorkers' could do in
the way of dissolving partnership.  But Teddy Loman kept his willow
straight up, and said &bquo;Not at home' to every poser, leaving Noll to do
all the smacking.  This pretty business might have gone on till
to-morrow week had the men's upper stories been as &bquo;O.K.' as their
timbers, but they messed about over a pretty snick of Noll's, and, after
popping the question three times, Teddy got home just in time to see his
two bails tumble out of their groove.  Teddy didn't like this, and
bowled his partner a wide compliment, which Noll, like a sensible man,
didn't walk out to, and Teddy was astonished to find his party could get
on without him
The Sixth held a Cabinet Council to-day to discuss who should go out
for nuts.  The choice fell on Callonby.  I wonder why the Sixth are so
fond of nuts.  Why, monkeys eat nuts.  Perhaps that is the reason.  What
a popular writer Mr Bohn is with the Sixth! they even read him at
lesson time!  I was quite sorry when the Doctor had to bone Wren's Bohn.
I wonder, by the way, why that bird found it so hard to translate the
simplest sentence without his Bohn!  The Doctor really shouldn't -- I hope
he will restore to Wren his backbone by giving him back his Bohn.  Hum!
I heard some one smiling.  I'll go
whisk
inmost soul
Facetiae
Sole's Allegery
Market Intelligence.

"Half a dozen mixed Guinea-pigs and Tadpoles were offered for sale by
auction on the centre landing yesterday.  There was only a small
attendance.  The auctioneer said he couldn't honestly recommend the lot,
but they must be got rid of at any cost.  He had scrubbed their faces
and combed their hair for the occasion, but couldn't guarantee that
state of things to last.  But they might turn out to be of use as
substitutes in case worms should become scarce; and, any way, by boiling
down their fingers and collars, many gallons of valuable ink could be
obtained.  The first bid was a farthing, which seemed to be far beyond
the expectation of the salesman, who at once knocked the lot down.  The
sale was such a success that it is proposed to knock down several more
lots in a like manner
meeting
Reviews of Books
This book appears to be the praiseworthy attempt of some ambitious
little boys to enter the field of letters.  We are always pleased to
encourage juvenile talent, but we would suggest that our young friends
might have done better had they kept to their picture-books a little
longer before launching out into literature on their own account.  In
the words of the poet we might say --

  "Babies, wait a little longer,
  Till the little wings are stronger,
  Then you'll fly away
Nevertherless, we would refer to one or two of these interesting
attempts.  Take, for example, the essay on the &bquo;Character of Julius
Caesar,' by one who signs himself Raleigh.  This is very well written.
Pains have been taken about the formation of the letters, and some of
the capitals are specially worthy of praise.  For one so young, we
rarely saw the capital D so well done.  Dr Smith, were he alive, would
be pleased to see his remarks on Caesar so well and accurately copied
out.  Master Wren gives us some verse -- a translation out of Horace.  We
wonder if Mr Wren is any relation to the late Jenny Wren who married
Mr Cock Robin.  We should imagine from these verses that Mr Wren must
be well acquainted with _Robbin_.  Take one more, Master Loman's &bquo;A
Funny Story.'  We are sorry to find Master Loman tells stories.  Boys
shouldn't tell stories; it's not right.  But Master Loman unfortunately
does tell stories, and this is one.  He calls it &bquo;A Funny Story.'  That
is a story to begin with, for it is not funny.  We don't know what
Master Loman thinks funny; perhaps he calls being run out at cricket
funny, or hitting another boy in the mouth when he's looking another
way.  In any case, we can't make out why he calls this story funny.  The
only funny thing about it is its title, and his spelling &bquo;attach'
&bquo;attatch.'  The last is really funny.  It shows how partial Mr Loman is
to _tea_.  If this funny story is the result of his partiality to tea,
we are afraid it was very weak stuff
Hon. Sir,-- This comes hoping you are well.  You may like to know Sir
Patrick won.  The tip was all out.  Honourable Sir,-- My friend would
like his ten pounds sharp, as he's a poor man.  Please call in on
Saturday afternoon.  Your very humble servant, Ben Cripps
Greenfield
cut down at once to Maltby and bring me a
newspaper
I've got my lessons to do
Leave them here, I'll do them
look sharp
We aren't allowed out after seven without leave
I know that, and I give you leave -- there
I say, will it do in the morning
Look sharp back
and don't let any one see you going out.
Look here, you can get yourself some brandy-balls with this
paper-chase
Why
why, if it ain't young Master
Greenhorn.  Ha, ha!  How do, my young bantam?  Pretty bobbish, eh
bobbish
Never mind
you're a light weight.
And so you're taking a dander down town, are you? looking for lollipops,
eh
I came to get a paper for Loman
but they're all sold out
No, are they?  I wonder what Mr Loman wants with a paper, now
He said it was very important, and I was to be sure to get one of
to-day's
Do you know where I can get one
Of course.  Come along with me; I've got one at home you can have.  And
so he said it was very important, did he?  That's queer.  There's
nothing in to-day's paper at all.  Only something about a low
horse-race.  He don't want it for that, I guess; eh
Oh, no, I shouldn't think
I say
is this a public-house
Getting on that way
We aren't allowed to go in public-houses
it's one of
the rules
Ah, quite right too; not a good thing for boys at all.  We'll go in by
the private door into my house
You won't forget the paper
please.  I've got to be back in
school directly
I'll have a look for it.  Now, I guess you like ginger-beer, don't
you
That's the style
Walk into
that while I go and get the paper
Here you are, young governor.  Now don't hurry away.  It's lonely here
all by myself, and I like a young gentleman like you to talk to.  I knew
a nice little boy once, just your age, that used to come and see me
regular once a week and play bagatelle with me.  He was a good player at
it too
Could he get clear-board twice running with two balls
Eh!-- no, scarcely that.  He wasn't quite such a dab as that
I can do it
You?  Not a bit of you
Yes, I can
I must see it before I can believe that
Suppose
you show me on my board
I knew you couldn't
I know I can do it
Let's try again
That's what I call smart play
Now, if I was a betting man,
I'd wager a sixpence you couldn't do it again
Yes, I can, but I won't bet
I must go back now
Must you?  Well, come again soon.  I've a great fancy to learn that
there stoke.  I'm a born fool at bagatelle.  What do you say to another
ginger-beer before you go
Thank you
Good-bye, my fine young fellow.  You're one of the right sort, you are.
No stuck-up nonsense about you.  That's why I fancy you.  Bye-bye.  My
love to Mr Loman
Wherever have you been to all this time
The papers were all sold out
I tried seven places
Hullo, Loman
what's the
row with you
Sprained my wrist
How did you manage that
Mind you get it right
by to-morrow, or we _shall_ be in a fix
I'm afraid I
shan't be able to play
What!  Who's that won't be able to play
Loman; he's sprained his wrist
Have you shown it to Dr Splints
No
It's hardly bad
enough for that
Then it's hardly bad enough to prevent your playing
Whatever shall we do for bowlers
I'm awfully sorry
but how am I to help
Whatever induced you to sprain your wrist
You might just
as well have put it off till Monday
Just fancy how foolish we shall look if those young beggars beat us, as
they are almost sure to do
What's the use of talking like that
You ass, you! as
if I could help
Shouldn't wonder if you could help
Perhaps
it was the _Dominican_ put him out of
joint.  It certainly did give him a rap over the knuckles
What do you mean
Shut up, you fellows
Baynes
will play in the eleven to-morrow instead of Loman, so there's an end of
the matter
Never mind; I'm bound to go and see Cripps.  Besides
they'll miss me to-morrow, whatever they say to-day
What _shall_ I say to Cripps
Why, it's Mr Loman! so it is
Now who
_would_ have thought of seeing _you_ here
Why, you told me to come this afternoon
Did I?  Ah, I dare say!  Never mind.  Very kind of a young gentleman
like you to come and see the likes of me.  What'll you take
I came to see you about that -- that horse you told me to bet against
I remember.  What's his name?  Sir Patrick, wasn't it?  My friend told
me that he'd had the best of that.  What was it?  Ten bob
No, ten pounds.  That was what I was to pay if the horse won; and,
Cripps, I can't pay it, or the twenty pounds either, to you
That's a go and no mistake
Afraid it won't do, mister
You told me Sir Patrick was sure not to win
Ah, there was several of us took in over that there horse
I lost a shilling myself over him.  Nice to be you, flush
of cash, and able to pay straight down
I can't pay
Ah, but the governor can, I'll wager
He would never do it!  It's no use asking him
That's awkward.  And my friend wants his money, too, and so do I
I really can't pay
I say, Cripps, let us off that
twenty pounds.  I really didn't mean about that rod
Ah, I dare say, mister.  You'll come and snivel now, will you?  But you
were ready enough to cheat a honest man when you saw a chance.  No, I'll
have my twenty or else there'll be a rumpus.  Make no mistake of that
Come, now
I'll wager you can raise the
wind somewheres
I wish I knew how.  I see no chance whatever, unless
unless I get the Nightingale.  Of
course; I say, Cripps, will you wait till September
What!  Three months!  And how do you suppose I'm to find bread to eat
till then
Oh, do
I'm certain to be able to pay then.  I forgot
all about the Nightingale
The Nightingale?  It must be an uncommon spicy bird to fetch in thirty
pound
It's not a bird
it's a scholarship
A what
A scholarship.  I'm in for an exam, you know, and whoever's first gets
fifty-pounds a year for three years
But suppose you ain't first? what then
Oh, but I'm _sure_ to be.  I've only got Fifth Form fellows against me,
and I'm certain to beat them
Well
I don't so much care about your nightingales
and cock-sparrows and scholarships, and all them traps, but I'd like to
oblige you
Oh, thank you
And you'll get your friend to wait too, won't you
Can't do that.  I shall have to square up with him and look to you for
the lot, and most likely drop into the workhouse for my pains
Oh, no.  You can be quite certain of getting the money
Well, blessed if I ain't a easy-going cove
It ain't every one as 'ud wait three months on your poll-parrot
scholarships, or whatever you call 'em.  Come, business is business.
Give us your promise on a piece of paper -- if you must impose upon me
Of course I'm safe to get it!  Why ever didn't I think of that before?
Won't I just work the rest of the term!  Nothing like having an object
when you're grinding
The Sixth are going to win in a single innings, if you fellows want to
know
Not a bit of it
The Fifth are safe to win, I tell
you
But they've got no decent bowlers
Never mind
Loman's not going to play for the Sixth.
He's sprained his wrist
Hip, hip, hurrah
that _is_ jolly!  They are sure to be
licked now.  Are you sure he's out of it
Yes.  Look at him there with his arm in a sling
Well, that _is_ a piece of luck
Who's to take his
place
Baynes, they say.  He's no use, though
Don't you be too cock-sure, you two
I say we shall
beat you even if Loman don't play.  Got any brandy-balls left,
Greenfield
They mean hard work by sending in the captain now
I
don't like that
No more do I
He always knocks Oliver's bowling
about
Oh, bother; is your brother bowling
It's a pity they've got no
one better
Better look-out for your eyes
The captain
always knocks up this way, over square-leg's head
Play
Well bowled, sir
Hard lines
Hurrah for the Fifth
You'll beat them yet, Sixth
That wasn't a bad ball of Oliver's
He can bowl
very well when he tries
It was a beastly fluke
Shut up and don't make a row
Bravo! well played
Eighty-four's a lot
Ya, ha!  How do you like it, Guinea-pigs
I hope
_you'll_ get half as much.  _I_ knew how it would be
duck's-egg
They'll never do it, and serve them right
Why didn't they
put Mansfield in the eleven, or Banks?  They're far more use than Fisher
or Braddy
For all that, it'll be a sell if the Sixth lick
I wouldn't much care.  If we are going to be sat upon by those Fifth
snobs every time an eleven is made up, it's quite time we did go in with
the Sixth
Jolly for the Sixth
cheek
Did you ever see a fellow hit across wickets more horribly than
Senior
Just look at that
That Bullinger's a downright muff
not to get that last ball to leg!  I could have got it easily
Well, with that bowling, it's a disgrace if they _don't_ score; that's
all I can say
Now
it all depends on Oliver, and I back Oliver to do it,
don't you, Loamy
I do
Do you, really
Perhaps
you back yourself to talk when you're not spoken to, eh, Mr Greenhorn
Bravo! bravo!  Well run, sir!  Bravo, Fifth
Didn't I tell you
he'll save us; he's
got down to that end on purpose to take the bowling.  Do you twig,
Loamy?  And he'll stick to that end till the last ball of the over, and
then he'll run an odd number, and get up to the other end.  Do you
comprehend
You seem to know all about it
Do I, really
how odd that is, now --
particularly without a crib
Six to win
I'm _certain_ Oliver will do it
Yes, Oliver was always a plodding old blockhead
He's not a blockhead
Go it!  Come and kick my legs, young 'un; there's no one near but
Loamy, and he can't hurt
Look here, you lame little wretch
if
I have any more of your impudence I'll box your ears
I thought your wrist was sprained
Here,
young Paul, let's get behind you, there's a good fellow, I _am_ in such
a funk
I tell you what, Wray
I heartily wish this term was over
Why, that's just what I heard your young brother say.  He is going to
learn the bicycle, he says, in the holidays
Oh, it's not the holidays I want
But somehow things
have gone all wrong.  I've been off my luck completely this term
Off your luck!-- You great discontented, ungrateful bear.  Haven't you
got the English prize?  Aren't you in the School Eleven? and didn't you
make top score in the match with the Sixth last Saturday?  Whatever do
you mean by &bquo;off your luck
Oh, it's not that, you know
What I mean is -- oh, bother!-- a fellow can't explain it
So it seems
but I wish a fellow could, for I've
not a notion what you're driving at
Well, I mean I'm not doing much good.  There's that young brother of
mine, for instance.  What good have I been to him?  There have I let him
go and do just what he likes, and not looked after him a bit ever since
he came here
And I wager he's got on all the better for not being tied up to your
apron strings.  He's a fine honest little chap, is young Greenfield
Oh, I dare say; but somehow I don't seem to know as much of him now as
I used to do before he came here
That's Loman's fault, I bet you anything
I'm
sure he won't do the kid any good.  But Rastle was saying only yesterday
how well Stephen was getting on in class
Was he?  It's little thanks to me if he is
And what else have you got to grumble about
Why, you know how I'm out with the Fifth over that affair with Loman.
They all set me down as a coward, and I'm not that
Of course you aren't
But, Noll, you told
me a little while ago you didn't care a snap what they thought
No more I do, in a way.  But it's very uncomfortable
Why don't you tell them straight out why you didn't let out at Loman?
They are sure to respect your motive
Yes, and set me down as posing as a martyr or a saint!  No!  I'd sooner
pass as a coward than set up as a saint when I'm not one.  Why, Wray, if
you'll believe me, I've been a worse Christian since I began to try to
be one, than I ever was before.  I'm for ever losing my temper, and
Shut up that tune, now
If you are
beginning at that again, I'll go.  As if you didn't know you were the
best fellow in the school
I'm not the best, _or_ anything like
I hate
your saying so -- I wish almost I had never told you anything about it
Well, I don't know
Ever since you told me of it, I've been trying myself in a mild
way to go straight.  But it's desperate hard work
Desperate hard work even if you try in more than a mild way
And then, to proceed with my growl, I'm certain to come
a howler over the Nightingale
I suppose you expect me to sympathise with you about that, eh?  The
bigger the howler the better for me!  I only wish you were a true
prophet, Noll, in that particular
Why, of course you'll beat me -- and if you don't Loman will.  I hear
he's grinding away like nuts
Is he, though
Yes, and he's going to get a &bquo;coach' in the holidays too
More likely a dog-cart.  Anyhow, I dare say he will run us close.  But
he's such a shifty fellow, there's no knowing whether he will stay out
Whatever's up down there
Only the Guinea-pigs and Tadpoles.  By the way
they've got a grand &bquo;supper,' as they call it, on to-night to celebrate
their cricket match.  Suppose we go and see the fun
All right
Who won the match
Why, what a question!  Do you suppose a match between Guinea-pigs and
Tadpoles _ever_ came to an end?  They had a free fight at the end of the
first innings.  The Tadpole umpire gave one of his own men &bquo;not out'
when he hit his wicket, and they made a personal question of it, and
fell out.  Your young brother, I hear, greatly distinguished himself in
the argument
Well, it doesn't seem to interfere with their spirits now, to judge of
the row they are making.  Just listen
Look-out for the chorus
There was a little lad,
  (Well bowled!)
  And a little bat he had;
  (Well bowled!)
  He skipped up to the wicket,
  And thought he'd play some cricket,
  But he didn't, for he was --
  Well bowled!

  "He thought he'd make a score
  (So bold),
  And lead-off with a four
  (So bold);
  So he walked out to a twister,
  But somehow sort of missed her,
  And she bailed him, for he was
  Too bold.

  "Now all ye little boys
  (So bold),
  Who like to make a noise
  (So bold),
  Take warning by young Walker,
  Keep your bat down to a yorker,
  Or, don't you see? you'll be --
  Well bowled
Ladies and gentlemen
You all know me; I am one of
yourselves
a showy lead-off for his
cricket feast jaw
So you are
Bravo, Paul
Jemmy
Welch, I'll punch your head when we get outside, see if I don't
Now, ladies and gentlemen, I
shall not detain you with a speech (loud cheers from all, and &bquo;Jolly
good job!' from Bramble).  I shall go on speaking just as long as I
choose, Bramble, so now!  (Cheers.)  I've as much right to speak as you
have.  (Applause.)  You're only a stuck-up duffer.  (Terrific cheers,
and a fight down at the end of the table.)  I beg to drink the health of
the Guinea-pigs.  (Loud Guinea-pig cheers.)  We licked the old Tadpoles
in the match.  (&bquo;No you didn't!'  &bquo;That's a cram!' and groans from the
Tadpoles.)  I say we did!  Your umpire was a cheat -- they always are!  We
beat you hollow, didn't we, Stee Greenfield
Yes, rather
That's eight matches we've won
and -- all right,
Spicer!  I saw you do it this time!  See if I don't pay you for it
What do you think
Tony Pembury's kept me all this while brushing
his clothes!  I told him it was cricket feast, but he didn't care!  What
do you think of that?  Of course, you've finished all the grub; I knew
you would
Let's strike
Strike!  No more
fagging
Any boy who fags after this
will be cut dead!
Those who promise hold up your hands -- mind, it's a promise
Mind now, no giving in
Let's stick all together.
Greenfield senior shall _kill_ me before I do anything more for him
Poor fellow
what a lot of martyrdoms
he'll have to put up with
And Pembury shall kill me
I'm afraid
we've been eavesdropping
Anyhow, I don't mean to take
advantage of what I've heard
What a young ruffian your brother is
he looked
tremendously in earnest
Yes, he always is.  You'll find he'll keep his word far better than
most of them
If he does, I'm afraid Loman will make it unpleasant for him
Very likely
Then you'll have to interfere
Why, what a bloodthirsty chap you are, Wray!  You are longing for me to
quarrel with Loman.  I'll wait till young Stephen asks me to
Do you think he will?  He's a proud little chap
It'll serve him right if he does get a lesson.  Did
ever you see such a lot of young cannibals as those youngsters?  Are you
coming to have supper with me
They mean
business
What shall I do?  Paul
Shan't come
Ho, he
this is serious; they are sticking to their
strike with a vengeance!  I suppose I must go and look for my fag, eh,
Wray?  Discipline must be maintained
Shan't come
Come along, old boy
affair of Greenfield senior's right
foot
Why didn't you turn up and get my breakfast, you idle young vagabond
I'm not idle
Then what do you mean by not doing your work
It's not my work
What
what do you
say
It's not my work
Look here, young fellow
don't you play any of your little games with
me, or you'll be sorry for it
What do you mean by it
Just come to my room
We'll see who's master of us two
Now
Now
Are you going to do what you're told, or not
Not what _you_ tell me
Oh
you're quite sure
Yes
Then take that
Don't you hit me
Now
will you do what
you're told now, eh
No, I
won't
Why, Greenfield
what have you been
doing to yourself
Nothing, sir
How did you come by that black eye
Fighting, sir
Ah! what did you say forty-eight sixths was equal to
I'm afraid you got the worst of that fight
The fellow was bigger than me
I should guess that by the state of your face.  Now, I don't want to
know what the fight was about, though I dare say you'd like to tell me
&lsqb;Stephen was boiling to tell him&rsqb;.  You small boys have such peculiar
reasons for fighting, you know, no one can understand them
But this was because
Hush!  Didn't I tell you I won't hear what it was about, sir
Did you shake hands afterwards
No, I didn't, _and I won't_
Then
write me out one hundred lines of
Caesar, Greenfield; and when you have recollected how to behave
yourself, we will talk more about this.  You can go
Greenfield
how much of your imposition have
you done
Seventy lines, sir
Hum!  That will do this time.  You had better get to bed
Oh, sir
I'm so sorry I
was rude to you
Well, I was sorry, too; so we'll say no more about that.  Why, what a
crack you must have got on your cheek
Yes, sir; that was the ruler did that
The ruler!  Then it wasn't a fair fight?  Now don't begin telling me
all about it.  I dare say you were very heroic, and stood up against
terrible odds.  But you've a very black eye and a very sore cheek now,
so you had better get to bed as fast as you can
nigger-driver
Serve 'em right
they want a lesson.  I wish I'd two
fellows to strike against instead of one
One's enough if he strikes you back
I say, you look
just like a clown; doesn't he, Padger, with his eye all sorts of colours
and his cheek like a house on fire
All very well
I wish you'd got my cheek
Bramby's got cheek enough of his own, I guess
I don't mind the eye, that don't hurt; but I
can tell you, you fellows, my cheek's awful
I always said you'd got an awful cheek of your own, young Greenfield
Well, you said so yourself
But, I say, why don't you stick some
lotion or something on it?  It'll never get right if you don't, will it,
Padger
Oh, I say
don't do what you said you would
to Loman.  I'm not afraid of him, you know
I'd like to knock his ugly head off for him
No, don't; please don't!  I'd rather not.  I dare say he's sorry for
it
I'll see he is
Besides, I've forgiven him
and oughtn't to have told
tales of him; so mind you don't do it, Mr Cripps, will you
I'll see
Good-bye for the present, young
gentleman, and come again soon
Thank Goodness
Thank goodness, we are at last rid of the pest which has made Saint
Dominic's hideous for months past!  At a single blow, with a single clap
of the hands, we have sent Guinea-pigs and Tadpoles packing, and can now
breathe pure air.  No longer shall we have to put up with the plague.
We are to be spared the disgust of seeing them, much more of talking to
them or hearing their hideous voices.  No longer will our morning milk
be burned; no longer will our herrings be grilled to cinders; no longer
will our jam be purloined; no longer will our books and door-handles be
made abominable by contact with their filthy hands!  Thank goodness!
The Doctor never did a more patriotic deed than this!  The small animals
are in future to be kept to their own quarters, and will be forbidden
the liberty they have so long abused of mixing with their betters.  It
is as well for all parties; and if any event could have brightened the
last days of this term, it is this
squash
What does it mean, Padger
It's all a pack of crams
It means
the fellows say they are jolly glad to get
rid of us
Eh
oh, I say, you fellows, come to the meeting!
Jolly glad!  They aren't a bit glad
They say so
Hold hard, Bramble, let's read the rest
crams
The Doctor never did a more -- pat -- pat -- ri -- what do you call it?--
patriotic deed than this
Hullo, I say, look here
the
Doctor's in it, they say, Bramble.  &bquo;The small animals'-- that's you and
Padger --&bquo;are to be kept in their own quarters.'  Whew! there's a go
What
who says so?  The Doctor never said so.  I
shall do what I choose.  He never said so.  Bother the Doctor!  Who's
coming to the meeting, eh
Bother the Doctor
Go to your class-room
and wait there for me
Good morning, Mr
Rastle
Are your boys all here
Yes, sir, we have just called over
Ah!  And what class comes on first
English literature, sir
Well, Mr Rastle, I will take the class this morning, please -- instead
of you
What have the boys been reading
Grey's _Elegy_, sir.  We have just got through it
Oh!  Grey's _Elegy_
The curfew tolls the knell of parting day,
  The lowing herds wind slowly o'er the lea
The first boy,-- what can you tell me about the curfew
full, true, and particular
account
The rude Forefathers of the hamlet sleep
What does that line mean
Four old men
Four rude old men
Four rude old men who used to sleep in church
Nor Grandeur hear with a disdainful smile
  The short and simple annals of the Poor
On some fond _beast_ the parting soul relies
breast
Haply some hoary-headed swain may say,
  Oft have we seen him at the peep of dawn
Happy some hairy-headed swine may say
That will do, sir
That will do.  What is
your name, sir
Bramble, please, sir
Well, Bramble, how long have you been in this class
Two years, sir
And have you been all the while on the bottom desk
Yes, please, sir
Sir, it displeases me.  You are a dunce, sir
Come here, Bramble
and come here, you, and
you, and you
Now, you boys
I hadn't intended
to examine you to-day; but, from something I heard one of you say, I
felt rather anxious to know how some of you are doing in your studies.
These half-dozen boys I was particularly anxious to know of, because I
heard them talking to-day as if they were the most important boys in the
whole school.  They _are_ the most important; for they are the most
ignorant, and require, and in future will receive, the closest looking
after.  You, little boys
take a word of warning from me.  Do not be silly as
well as dunces.  Do not think, as long as you know least of any one in
the school you can pretend to rule the school.  I hope some of you have
been led to see to-day you are not as clever as you would like to be.
If you try, and work hard, and stick like men to your lessons, you will
know more than you do now; and when you do know more you will see that
the best way for little boys to get on is not by giving themselves
ridiculous airs, but by doing their duty steadily in class, and living
at peace with one another, and submitting quietly to the discipline of
the school.  Don't let me hear any more of this recent nonsense.  You'll
be going off in a day or two for the holidays.  Take my advice, and
think over what I have said; and next term let me see you in your right
minds, determined to work hard and do your part honestly for the credit
of the good old school.  Go to your places, boys
Do any of you know
anything about this
newspaper, the _Dominican_, which I see hanging outside the Fifth door
I hear a great many boys talking about it
It is the joint production of several of the boys in my form
Indeed!  A Fifth form paper
Has any one perused
it
I have
It seems to me to be cleverly managed,
though perhaps a little personal
Ah, only natural with schoolboys
I should like to
see it.  Can you fetch it, Rastle
It is nailed to the wall
like Luther's
manifesto; but I can get one of the boys, I dare say, to unfasten it for
you
No, do not do that
If the mountain will not come
to Mahomet, you know, Mahomet and his disciples must go to the mountain,
eh, Mr Harrison?  I think we might venture out and peruse it where it
hangs
It shows considerable ability on the part of its editor
but I rather fear
its tone may give offence to some of the boys -- in the Sixth for
instance
I fancy there is a considerable amount of rivalry between the two head
forms
If there is
this newspaper is hardly likely to
diminish it
And it seems equally severe on the juniors
Ah
about that &bquo;strike.'  I can't
understand that.  Really the politics of your little world, Rastle, are
too intricate for any ordinary mortal.  But I gather the small boys have
a grievance against the big ones
Yes, on the question of fagging, I believe
Oh
I hope that is not coming up.  You know I'm
heretic enough to believe that a certain amount of fagging does not do
harm in a school like ours
Certainly not
But these small boys are really
very amusing.  They appear to be regularly organised, and some of them
have quite a martyr spirit about them
As I can testify
Well, it is as well the holidays are coming.  Things are sure to calm
down in them; and next term I dare say we shall be all the wiser for the
lessons of this.  Meanwhile I should like to see the editor of this
paper to-morrow.  Who is he, Jellicott
I believe it is Pembury
Very well.  Send him to me, will you, to-morrow at ten?  Good-night.
Thank you for your advice
As long as you can keep on the broad round of humour and pure fun,
nothing can please us more than to see you improving your time in a
manner like this.  But you must be very careful to avoid what will give
pain or offence to any section of your schoolfellows.  I was sorry to
see in the present number a good deal that might have been well omitted
of that kind.  Remember this, Pembury, I want all you boys, instead of
separating off one set from another, and making divisions between class
and class, to try to make common cause over the whole school, and unite
all the boys in common cause for the good of Saint Dominic's.  Now your
paper could help not a little in this direction.  Indeed, if it does not
help, it had better not be issued.  There!  I shall not refer to the
matter again unless you give me cause.  I do not want to discourage you
in your undertaking, for it's really an excellent idea, and capitally
carried out.  And _verbum sap_, you know, is quite sufficient
Hart's Earnings
group
Come, Edward, put away your books to-day
I
want you to drive me over to Falkham in the pony-chaise
I really can't, mother; I must work for the scholarship
Nonsense, boy; what is a scholarship compared with your health?
Besides, you'll work all the better if you take some exercise
Why, if it ain't young Squire
Loman, riding a bit of very tidy horseflesh too, as I'm a Dutchman
Well, I never reckoned to see you now
Fact is, I was just trotting over to see _you_.  I wanted to
try what this here cob was made of, and, thinks I, I may as well kill
two birds with one stone, and look up my young squire while I'm about
it
Coming to see me
I say, Cripps, you
mustn't do that.  My father would be very angry, you know
Nice, that is!  As if I wasn't as good company as any one else
Oh! it's not that
What I
mean is
Oh, I know -- about that there rod.  Bless me!  I won't let out on you,
my beauty -- leastways, if you come up to scratch.  He'd like to hear the
story, though, the old gentleman, I fancy.  Wouldn't he now
I wouldn't have him know it for worlds.  It'll be all right, Cripps,
indeed it will about the money
All right, young swell, I hope it will.  Funny I feel such an interest
in you, 'specially since that young greeny friend of yours put in a word
for you.  He's a real nice sort, he is -- he owes you one, and no
mistake
What
who do you mean?  Young Greenfield
To be sure.  Regular young chum of mine, he is.  I know all about you,
my master, and no mistake
What -- the young sneak?  What has he been saying about me
Eh!-- what ain't he been saying!  In course you didn't half murder him,
eh?  In course you ain't a good hand at cheatin' all round up at the
school!  What?  In course you ain't saying nice things agin me all over
the place -- and in course some of us wouldn't like to see you get a
reg'lar good hiding, wouldn't we?  Bless you, I knows all about it; but
I'm mum, never fear
The young liar
I did owe him one; I'll pay him when
we get back
Hold hard, young gentleman
To be sure, he
ain't downright sweet on you; but I ain't a-going to have him smashed,
mind, all to bits.  Well, never mind that.  I'll turn back with you,
young gentleman, if I may.  We're only three miles from Maltby, and
maybe you'll honour a poor chap like me by having a look in at the
Cockchafer
No
to prevent Cripps having
the trouble of calling on him
Look here, Stee.  How would you like to come
with Wray and me next week
Like! wouldn't I rather
Thanks,
Noll, old man!  I say, it will be a spree
Athens
I say, can't we get out of
this rabble anyhow?  Why shouldn't we take the other side of the
islands
I don't know.  It would be a good deal quieter.  I wonder none of the
boats do it
Let's try, anyhow.  We can't be far from the lock, and then the river
will be wider.  Take us up inside the next island, Stee, and mind you
don't foul any one while you're about it
What a jolly pace the stream is going at
why don't you
drift, you fellows, instead of pulling like that
Good idea for you, young 'un
Keep a look-out ahead
and sing out if any
thing's coming
All right
Get out your oar, Noll -- quick
What's the row
The weir!  Quick, man, quick, or we shall be on to it
Pull your right -- hard
kick-up their heels
they could kick-up a row
to themselves
Go and kick-up a row in the monitor's room
Come along, old man, and have it out in the monitor's room
Now then, let him have it
Well parried
Bravo, Bully
Monitor's room.  This room is closed by
direction of the monitors
The blackguards! what do they mean
Monitor's room, indeed
_We'll_ let them see whose
room it is
Kick open the door, can't you
Fifth Form.  Private study.  Not to be entered without
permission
There is an unoccupied room at the end of the top landing, which some
boys in this class have been making use of to the annoyance of other
boys.  This room, please remember, is not to be entered in future
without my permission
What I say
is, it's a jolly good job
What's a jolly good job
Why, chucking them out!  I'm glad to see it, ain't you, Padger
They didn't chuck them out
they went and sneaked to the
Doctor, that's what they did
I don't care!  I say it's a jolly good job!  Those who say it's a jolly
good job hold up
Shut up your row
you're always sticking yourself up.
I say it's a beastly shame, and I hope the Fifth will let them know it
You're a young idiot, that's what you are
What business have you got at the meeting?  Turn him out
I'll turn _you_ out
I've as much
right here as you have.  So there
Turn him out, can't you
Bah! who goes and swills
ginger-beer down in a public-house in the town, eh
_I_ did, there!  But I didn't go in at
the public door.  And you've been sneaking
No, I haven't.  Padger told me, didn't you, Padger?  Padger peeped
through the door, and saw you.  Oh, my eye! won't I kick-up a shine
about it!  I'll let out on you, see if I don't.  Bah, public-house boy!
potboy, yah
Potboy
He'll be all right
he's a great deal steadier
than he was last term
I wish he'd read indoors, then, and not be everlastingly trotting out
with his books
Oh!  I don't know; it's much jollier reading out of doors, if you can
do it
As long as he _does_ read.  Well, it will be a regular sell if he comes
to grief; the Fifth will be intolerable
They're not far short of that now.  Hullo
It's all up with the
Nightingale, at that rate
Looks like it
I give it up; it's not a bit of use going on
Upon my word I think you're right, Noll
I've a good mind
to scratch, and
leave you and Loman to fight it out
Don't be a jackass, Noll
That
_would_ be a sensible thing to do
All very well for you to laugh
You
know you are well up and are going to win
I'm no better up than you are
You know you're going to win
I only wish I did
Why
I assure
you, Wray, I've forgotten half even of what I did know.  I was going
over some of those brutal Roman History dates in bed last night, for
instance, and I positively couldn't remember one.  Then I tried the map
of Greece, but I was still worse there; I couldn't remember where one
single place was except Athens and Corinth, and I'm sure I used to be
pretty well up in that
I expect you were half asleep at the time
No, I wasn't; I couldn't sleep a wink.  I say, Wray, _wouldn't_ it be
jolly if we only knew now what the questions are going to be on Monday
Why don't you go and ask the Doctor
he'd
be delighted to tell you
What a humbug you are, Wray!  I say, suppose we shut up work now and
have a turn on the river.  I'm certain it will do us more good than
cracking our skulls here
Just what I had been thinking.  I'm game, and it can't make much
difference
I suppose Loman is grinding up to the last
I suppose so; I was almost in hopes he wouldn't keep it up
Never mind, it will all be over on Monday; that's a comfort!  Come
along, old man.  Suppose we get young Stee to cox us up to the lock and
back
Oh, all right; you can come and cox us yourself, youngster
Cox you
why, ain't the Nightingale exam coming on,
then, on Monday
Of course it is
And you two going out to row!  I say, the Sixth will win it if you
don't look-out
You don't mean to say you're going out, you fellows
Yes, I do
But the Nightingale, I say
That's not till Monday
I know; but aren't you grinding for it?  I say, don't let them beat
you!  Hadn't you better work instead of going out
Hullo -- my eye -- hurrah
There they go!  I hope they get drowned; don't you, Padger
Go it.  _You'll_ get the Nightingale!  I thought you would!  Hope you
get drowned, do you hear!  Hurrah for the Sixth
Yah boo, Nightingale!  Hope you get drowned!  Yah
This old Shar isn't half such a jolly river as the Thames, is it,
Wray
Rather not
and yet it's
pretty enough in parts
Oh, up at the weir?-- yes.  But I'm out of love with weirs at present.
I shudder every time I think of that one up the Thames
It wasn't pleasant, certainly
Pleasant!  Old man, if you hadn't been there it would have been a good
deal worse than unpleasant.  Poor Stee
Pull your left, Greenfield senior, or you'll be into the bank
Shall we go through the lock or turn round
May as well turn, eh, Wray
Hullo!  I say, there's something up
there
That's young
Greenfield
What
Stephen
Yes, and -- what _on earth_ are they doing to him
Oh, don't!  Please, Cripps!  Don't let them, Loman -- don't let them
drown me
What is all this
Oh, Noll
I'll tell you all about it.  But let's get
away from here
No, I won't go
not till I know what it all means.
You fellow
you'd better speak or I'll
thrash you
Come, I say, you _do_ do it well, you do!  It
was a joke -- just a joke, young gentleman.  You've no occasion to flurry
yourself; we wouldn't have hurt a hair of the young gentleman's head.
Ask Mr Loman
Where's Loman
Gone
But I say,
Noll, do come away.  I'll tell you all about it.  Do come
Don't you swallow all that young swell tells you.
He's a nice boy, he is, but -- well, he'd better mind what he says, that's
all
Do come away
Yes, do come away
When I
calls up at the school I'll let them all know what a nice young prig he
is, coming down and drinking at my public-house and then turning round
on me.  Never fear!  _I'll_ let them know, my beauties!  I'll have a
talk with your Doctor and open his eyes for him.  Good-bye, you sneaking
young
Look here
if you don't stop instantly you'll be sorry
for it
Come on, how, old man
we can't do any good by
staying here
You'll have to walk
home, Paul; Stephen will steer
Why, you said I might steer
Now
Oh, Noll
I am so very, very sorry! it
was all
None of that
Just tell me
how it came about
Why
you know I promised you never to go to the Cockchafer
again, and I didn't, but I thought I ought to see Cripps and give him
back the bicycle-lamp
Young muff
So
I thought I'd come up
this afternoon
Well, go on, can't you
Cripps asked me into the cottage, and there were some fellows there,
smoking and drinking and playing cards
Was Loman one of them
I think so
_Think_ so, you young cad
Why can't you tell the
truth straight out?  Was he there or not
Yes, he was.  I did mean to tell the truth, Noll, really, only -- only
there's no need to get Loman in a row
Go on
They made fun of me because I wouldn't smoke and play with them.  You
know I promised mother not to play cards, Noll.  I didn't mind that,
though, but when I wanted to go away they -- that is, Cripps -- wouldn't let
me.  I tried to get away, but he stopped me, and they said they'd make
me play
Who said?  Did Loman
Why -- yes
he and the rest.  They held me down in a chair,
and made me take hold of the cards, and one of them opened my mouth and
shouted beastly words down into it -- ugh
Was that Loman
No
What did he do
They all
What did Loman do, I say
He pulled my ears, but not very hard.  Really I expect it was only fun,
Noll
I said I thought they were
very wicked to be doing what they did; but they only laughed at that,
and called me a prig
Much better if you'd kept what you thought to yourself
Well
Oh, then they did a lot of things to rile me, and knocked me about
because I wouldn't drink their stuff, and they swore too
Did Loman swear
They all swore, I think
and then, you know, when I
wouldn't do what they wanted they said they'd throw me in the river, and
then you fellows turned up
Did Loman tell them to throw you in the river
Oh, no
he didn't, really!  I think he was sorry
Did he try to prevent it, then
Well, no; I didn't hear him say
Wray, I shall thrash Loman
All serene
you'd better have it out to-night
Oh, Noll
don't fight, please.  It
was all my fault, for
Shut up, Stee
After tea, then, Wray, in the gymnasium
Right you are
I must go and challenge Loman at once
Let me go
Why
Because most likely if you go you'll have a row in his study.  Much
better wait and have it out decently in the gymnasium.  I'll go and tell
him
Look sharp, old man
that's all
Greenfield senior wants me to say he'll meet you after tea in the
gymnasium if you'll come there
Fight me?  What does he want to fight me for, I should like to
know
You know as well as I do
I know nothing about it, and what's more I'll have nothing to do with
the fellow.  Tell him that
Then you won't fight
No, I won't to please him.  When I've nothing better to do I'll do it
Do you hear what I say
Don't you see I'm working
Look here
I didn't think you were a coward
Think what you like.  Do you suppose I care?  If Greenfield wants so
badly to fight me, why didn't he do it last term when I gave him the
chance?  Get out of my study, and tell him I'll have nothing to do with
him or any of your stuck-up Fifth
I suppose you're
afraid to fight _me_, either
If you don't clear out of my study I'll report you to the Doctor,
that's what I'll do
He won't fight
Not fight
Why ever not
I suppose because he's a coward.  He says because he doesn't choose
But he _must_ fight, Wray.  We must make him
You can't.  I called him a coward, and that wouldn't make him.  You'll
have to give it up this time, Noll
It's no go
Oh, well, never mind
Even if you could have fought,
I dare say it wouldn't have done much good, for he's such a sullen
beggar there would have been no making it up afterwards.  If I were you
I wouldn't bother any more about it.  I'll let all the fellows know he
refused to fight you
What's the use of that
Why tell them anything about
it
I tell you
he
could finish him up easily in one round
Yes
Loman's got such a wretched knack
of keeping up his left elbow, that he's not a chance.  A child could get
in under his guard, I tell you; and as for wind, he's no more wind than
an old paper bag
I wish myself it was a closer thing, as long as our man won
It will be such a
miserably hollow affair I'm afraid
I'm sorry it's not Wren, or Callonby, or one of them
there'd be some pleasure in chawing them up
It's no fight after all, you fellows
Loman funks it
What! he won't fight
It must be wrong
Oh, all right, if it's wrong
I tell you there's no
fight; you can believe it or not as you like
When's it to come off, I say
To-night, I should say, or first thing in the morning
Sure to be to-night.  My eye! won't Greenfield senior look black and
blue after it
No, he won't
Turn him out
No one wants you here; do we, Padger?
Get yourself out of the meeting, you sneak
Get yourself out
Look sharp
it's half over by now.  They were
Where's the fight, young Greenfield
Nowhere
What! not coming off
No
Has your brother funked it again
He never funked, you young cad
Yes, he did, didn't he, Padger?  That time, you know, last term.  But I
say, Greenfield junior, why ever's the fight not coming off
Loman won't fight, that's why
After all
if the fellow is a coward why need I
bother?  Only I should have rather liked to thrash him for what he did
to Stee
Never mind -- thrash him over the Nightingale instead
You can go on if you like
I can't.  It's no
use.  I think I shall go to bed
What!  It's not quite nine yet
Is that all it is?  Never mind; good-night, old man.  I'm glad it will
all be over on Monday
What I advise you is, to make a clean breast of it to the Doctor at
once.  If he hears of it any other way, you're done for
Oh, Noll, I never could!  I know I couldn't.  I say, will you?  You can
tell him anything you like
All serene; I'll do it.
Mind, I must tell him everything, though
Oh, yes!  I say, do you think I'll be expelled
I hope not.  There's no knowing, though
Oh, Noll! what _shall_ I do
It's your only chance, I tell you.  If Cripps comes up and talks about
it, or Loman tells, you're sure to be expelled
Well
I suppose you'd better tell him,
Noll.  Need I come too
No, better not
I'll go and see if he's in his study
now.  You go up stairs, and I'll come and tell you what he says
Hullo, Greenfield
what have you been up to in
there
I want the Doctor
do you know where he is
If saw him go up stairs a minute ago; that is, I mean down stairs, you
know
Well
He wasn't there.  I'll see him in the morning
Good-night, Stee
Good-night, Noll, old man!  I say, you are a brick to me
You are a brick to me
You are a brick to
me -- a brick to me
Well, Greenfield, you've done a very
proper thing in telling me all this; it is a straightforward as well as
a brotherly act.  Your brother seems to have been very foolish, but I
have no doubt he has got a lesson.  You had better send him to me after
morning service
I say
I suppose you didn't say
anything about Loman, did you
Of course not! he's no concern of mine
But look here, young 'un, I'm not going to let you fag any more for
him, or have anything to do with him
All right
proprietor
But the captain will row me, won't he
If he does I'll make that square.  You can fag for Wraysford if you
like, though, he wants a fellow
Oh, all right
that'll be jolly!  I like
old Wray
Very kind of you
Hullo!  I say, look here, Wraysford
I'm
going to cut Loman and fag for you.  Isn't it jolly
Depends on whether I have you.  I don't want any Guinea-pigs in my
study, mind
I really wouldn't kick-up shines
You'd be a queer Guinea-pig if you didn't
And how many times a week would you go on strike, eh
Oh
I'll never go on strike again; I don't like it
Well, I'll have you; but mind, I'm awfully particular, and knock
my fags about tremendously, don't I, Noll
I don't mind that
Besides, you've not
had a fag to knock about
Forgetting those things which are behind -- reaching forth unto those
things which are before
You must thank your brother for my not dealing a great deal more
severely with the case
and I am quite ready to
believe it will not occur again.  Now, good-bye
He ought to be expelled
All very well
Greenfield senior's cramming too, he's
been in all the afternoon
He's not cramming, he's got a headache
Oh, yes, I dare say, don't you, Padger?  Got a headache -- that's a nice
excuse for copying out of cribs on a Sunday
He doesn't use cribs, and I tell you he's not working
Shut up, do you hear, or you'll get turned out, Potboy
one for himself
Look alive, old man.  What do you say to a dip in the river before
breakfast?  We've got plenty of time, and it will wash off the cobwebs
before the exam
All serene
Anything's
better than doing nothing
Why, Wray, I thought you weren't going to let yourself get down about
it
I thought you weren't going to let yourself get up -- why, you're quite
festive this morning
Well, you see, a fellow can't do better than his best, and so as I have
done my best I don't mean to punish myself by getting in the blues
Pity you didn't make that resolution yesterday.  You were awfully glum,
you know, then; and now I've got my turn, you see
Oh, never mind, a plunge in the Shar will set you all right
Stee
mind you have
breakfast ready sharp by eight, do you hear? the best you can get out of
Wray's cupboard.  Come along, old boy
What's wrong, old man
aren't you
well
I'm all right
But you're out of spirits.  It's odd that I was in dumps and you were
in good spirits up to the fatal day, and now things are just reversed.
But, I say, you mustn't get down, you know, or it'll tell against you at
the exam
It strikes me every answer I give will tell against me.  All I hope is
that you get the scholarship
I mean to try, just like you and Loman
Well, you fellows
do you feel
like winning
Not more than usual
How do you feel
Oh, particularly cheerful, for I've nothing to do all day, I find.  I'm
not in for the Nightingale, or for the Mathematical Medal, or for the
English Literature.  Simon's in for that, you know, so there's no chance
for any one
So you fellows
may command my services from morning
to night if you like
Loman was grinding hard all yesterday
I'm afraid he'll
be rather a hot one to beat
But we _must_ beat him, mind, you fellows
we
Why, Wray
how jolly blue you look!  Don't go and funk
it, old man, or it's all UP
Who's going to funk it
I tell you Wray will most likely win
Well, as long as one of you does
we don't care which; do we, Braddy
Of course not
The Mathematical Medal candidates will remain here for examination.
The English Literature and Nightingale Scholarship candidates will be
examined in the Sixth Form room.  Boys not in for either of these
examinations may go to their studies till the twelve o'clock bell rings.
Before you disperse, however
I want to mention one matter which I have already mentioned in
the Sixth.  I mention it not because I suspect any boy here of a
dishonourable act, but because -- the matter being a mystery -- I feel I
must not neglect the most remote opportunity of clearing it up
On Saturday evening I had occasion to leave my study for rather less
than five minutes, shortly after nine o'clock.  I had been engaged in
getting together the various papers of questions for to-day's
examinations, and left them lying on the corner of the table.  On
returning to my study -- I had not been absent five minutes -- I found that
one of the papers -- one of the Nightingale Scholarship papers, which I
had only just copied out, was missing.  If I were not perfectly sure the
full number was there before I left the room, I should conclude I was
mistaken, but of that I am sure.  I just wish to ask this one question
here, which I have already asked in the Sixth.  Does any boy present
know anything about the missing paper
No?  I expected not; I am quite satisfied.  You can disperse, boys, to
your various places
What a fellow the Doctor is for speeches, Wray
Yes.  But that's a very queer thing about the paper, though
Oh, he's certain to have mislaid it somewhere.  It's a queer thing
saying anything about it; for it looks uncommonly as if he suspected
some one
So it does.  Oh, horrors! here we are at the torture-chamber!  I wish
it was all over
Boys for the Greek verse prize come forward
Boys for the Nightingale Scholarship come forward
Boys for the English Literature prize come forward
Describe, in not more than twelve lines of
blank verse, the natural beauties of the River Shar
The Shar is a very beautiful stream,
  Of the Ouse a tributary;
  Up at Gusset Weir it's prettiest, I ween,
  Because there the birds sing so merry
Canto One
Art is long, time
is fleeting
How did you get on
Middling, not so bad as I feared; how did you
Not very grand, I'm afraid; but better than I expected
But I say, did you see how gravelled Loman seemed?  I fancy
he didn't do very much
So I thought; but I hadn't time to watch him much
You fellows are regular bricks if you get it
It'll be the best thing that has happened for the Fifth for a long
time
Oh, I say
wasn't it funny, that about the Doctor losing the paper?
Just the very time I met you coming out of his study, you know, on
Saturday evening.  But of course I won't say anything.  Only wasn't it
funny
What can he mean
Mean!  It's easy enough to see what he means
the
hypocrite
I should never have thought Greenfield senior went in for that sort of
thing
Went in for what sort of thing
Why -- cheating
You're a liar to say so
I tell you you're a liar to say so
He's not a
cheat, I tell you; he never cheated.  You're a pack of liars, all of
you
I say, draw it mild, Wray, you know
You needn't
include me in your compliments
_You_ don't call Oliver a cheat
I shouldn't till I was cock-sure of the fact
Do you mean to say you aren't sure
All I can say is
it looks uncommonly ugly, if what Simon says is true
I don't believe a word that ass says
Oh, but
I assure
you I'm not telling a lie, Wraysford.  I'm sorry I said anything about
it.  I never thought there would be a row about it.  I promise I'll not
mention it to anybody
You blockhead! who cares for your promises?  I don't believe you
Well, I know I met Greenfield senior coming out of the Doctor's study
on Saturday evening, about five minutes past nine.  I'm positive of
that
And I suppose he had the paper in his hand
No; I expect he'd put it in his pocket, you know, at least, that is, I
would have
I would sooner
have done the thing myself
than Oliver
But it's not true!  I'm certain of it!  He couldn't
do it!  I'll never believe it of him
I say, Wray
I'm regularly floored by all
this.  Do you believe it
No, I don't
I'd give anything to be sure it was all false
and so
would a lot of the fellows.  As for that fool Simon
Bah
the fellow ought to be kicked
round the school
He's getting on that way already, I fancy
I was
saying I'd think nothing at all about it if what he says was the only
thing to go by, but -- well, you saw what a state Greenfield got into
about it
Maybe he was just in a sudden rage with the fellow for thinking of such
a thing
It looked like something more than rage
something a good deal more
I don't see what good it could have done him if he did take
the paper.  He'd have no time to cram it up yesterday.  He was out with
you, wasn't he, all the afternoon
No
he had a headache and stayed in
I say, Wray
it really does look bad, don't you
think so yourself
I don't know what to think
I'm quite
bewildered
It's no use pretending not to see what's as plain as daylight
What makes you so sure of the exact time
Oh, because, you know, I wanted to get off a letter by the post, and
thought I was in time till I saw the clock opposite the Doctor's study
said five minutes past
Did Greenfield say anything to you when he saw you
Oh, yes, he asked me if I knew where the Doctor was
Did you tell him
Oh, yes, I said he'd gone down to the hall or somewhere
And did Greenfield go after him
Oh, no, you know, he went off the other way as quick as he could
How can you ask such an
absurd question
Did you ask him what he wanted in the study
Oh, yes; but of course he didn't tell me -- not likely.  But I say, I
suppose we're sure to win the Nightingale now, aren't we?  Mind, I'm not
going to tell anybody, because, of course, it's a secret
Shut up, you miserable blockhead, unless you want to be kicked
No one wants to know what you're going to do.
You've done mischief enough already
Oh, well, I didn't mean, you know
all I said was I
met him coming
Shut up, do you hear? or you'll catch it
I know this
I'd sooner have lost the
scholarship twenty times over than win it like this
Precious fine glory it will be if we do get it
Unless Wray wins
No such luck as that, I'm afraid
That's just the
worst of it.  He's not only disgraced us, but he's swindled his best
friend.  It's a blackguard shame
At any rate, Loman is out of it, from what I hear; he got regularly
stuck in the exam
I tell you
I'd sooner have had Loman take the
scholarship and our two men nowhere at all, than this
I suppose Greenfield will have the grace to confess it, now it's all
come out
If he doesn't I fancy we can promise him a pretty hot time of it among
us
How did you get on yesterday in the English Literature
How are you
I beg
your pardon for hitting you yesterday
Oh
Oh, it's all right, Greenfield, you
know; I never meant to let it out.  It'll soon get hushed up; I don't
intend to let it go a bit farther
And yet
why should _I go_ back?  If it is Oliver, what
have _I_ to feel ashamed of
Noll, old man
Well
Aren't we to be friends still
Why do you ask
Because I'm afraid we are not friends at this moment
And whose fault is that
Your fault, Greenfield; how can
you ask
Hullo, Wray
don't you wish it
was this time to-morrow?  I do, I'm mad to hear the result
Are you
Yes, and so are you, you old humbug.  Noll says he thinks he did pretty
well, and that you answered well too.  I say, what a joke if it's a dead
heat, and you both get bracketed first
Cut away now
and don't make
such a row
Never mind
Never mind; and there's just
this, Tony, if Wray is only second, it will be a splendid win for the
Fifth all the same
I see nothing splendid in the whole concern
Alas
I don't envy him his thoughts
The following are the results of the various examinations held on
Monday.  English Literature -- maximum number of marks 100. 1st,
Bullinger, 72 marks; 2nd, West, 68; 3rd, Maybury, 51; 4th, Simon, 23.
I'm afraid, Simon, you were a little too venturesome entering for an
examination like this.  Your paper was a very poor performance
I say
I know it's a
mistake: you know I wrote five cantos about the Shar -- good too.  He's
lost that.  I say, had I better tell him
Yes, sir
The Mathematical Medal -- maximum number of marks 80. 1st, Heath, 65;
2nd, Price, 54; 3rd, Roberts, 53.  Heath's answers, I may say, were very
good, and the examiners have specially commended him
The Nightingale Scholarship
The maximum number of marks possible, 120.
First, Greenfield, Fifth Form, 112 marks.  And I must say I and the
examiners are astonished as well as highly gratified with this really
brilliant performance.  Greenfield, I congratulate you as well as your
class-fellows on your success.  It does you the very greatest credit
Second, Wraysford, Fifth Form, 97 marks, also a
creditable performance
Loman, Sixth Form
Loman, Sixth Form, 70 marks
Bravo, Wray! old man.  Hurrah for the Fifth
Ninety-seven to seventy.  Splendid, old fellow
I was certain you'd win
I have not won
I'm second
So you are, I quite forgot
Allow me to congratulate you, Greenfield, on your
really brilliant success. 112 marks out of 120!  You could hardly have
done better if you had seen the paper a day or two before the exam!
Your class, I assure you, are very proud of you
Surely the fellow won't be allowed to take the scholarship after this
The Doctor must see through it all
It's very queer if he doesn't
The scholarship belongs to Wray
and I mean to say it's
a blackguard shame if he doesn't get it
It's downright robbery, that's what it is
the fellow
ought to be kicked out of the school
I vote some one tells the Doctor
Suppose you go and tell him now, yourself
you could do it capitally.  What do you say
I don't want to tell tales
What I mean is, Wraysford ought
not to be cheated out of his scholarship
It's a lucky thing Wray has got you to set things right for him
There's no use our saying or doing anything
We
shall probably only make things worse.  It's sure to come out in time,
and till then we must grin and bear it
All very well
but Greenfield will be grinning too
I fancy not
I'm not a particular angel myself, but
I've a notion if I had cheated a schoolfellow I should be a trifle off
my grinning form; I don't know
After all, I don't envy the fellow his feelings this minute
And I envy his prospects in the Fifth still less
If you take my advice
you'll leave him pretty much to
himself.  Greenfield is a sort of fellow it's not easy to score off; and
some of you would only make fools of yourselves if you tried to do it
Oh, I say, you know
all the fellows are going to cut you, you know, Greenfield.  About that
paper, you know, the time I met you coming out of the Doctor's study.
But _I_ won't cut you, you know.  We'll hush it all up, you know,
Greenfield; upon my word we will.  But the fellows think
That will do
Oh, but you know, Greenfield
Look here, if you don't get out of my study
I'll
I shall have to humbug the fellow some way
I shall have to humbug the fellow somehow
I only wish I
knew how
Hullo, Loman
would you have believed it
Believed what
Oh! you know, I thought you knew, about the Nightingale, you know.  I
say, how jolly low you came out
Look here! you'd better hold your row
unless
you want a hiding
Oh; it's not that, you know.  What I meant was about Greenfield senior.
Isn't that a go
What about him?  Why can't you talk like an ordinary person, and not
like a howling jackass
Why, you know
why, you know,
about that paper
What paper
The one that was stolen out of
the Doctor's study, you know.  Isn't that a go?  But we're going to hush
it up.  Honour bright
What do you mean, you miserable beast?
What about the paper
Oh
why,
don't you know? _we_ know who took it, we do; but we're all going to
Who took it
Why -- don't you know?-- oh!-- oh, I say, mind my throat!-- haven't you
heard?-- why, Greenfield senior, you know
Greenfield senior
Yes; would you have thought it?  None of us would -- we're all going to
hush it up, you know, honour bright we are
Who told you he took it
Why, you know, I saw him
_You_ saw him take it
Yes; that is, I saw him coming out of the Doctor's study with it
You did
Yes; that is, of course he must have had it; and he says so himself
What, Greenfield says he took the paper
Yes; that is, he doesn't say he didn't; and all the fellows are going
to cut him dead, but we mean to hush it up if we can
Hush yourself up, that's what you'd better do
The fellow seems quite proud of himself
He's the only fellow who is, if that's so
Hullo! you fellows
I wanted to see
you.  Which way are you going?-- back to the school
Wren and I are going a stroll together
good-bye
Half a minute
I suppose you heard the results of the
Nightingale read out
Considering I was sitting on the same form with you when they were, I
suppose I did
That's all right
Mine wasn't a very loud score, was it?
Seventy!  I was surprised it was as much
The fact is, I never tried to answer
and for a very good
reason.  I suppose you know
No -- what
Haven't you heard?  I thought it was all over the school.  You heard
about the Doctor missing a paper
Yes; what about it?  Was it found, or lost, or what
No one owned to having taken it, that's certain
I should hope not.  Not the sort of thing any fellow here would do
That's just what I should have thought
But the fact is,
some one did take it -- you can guess who -- and you don't suppose I was
going to be fool enough to take any trouble over my answers when I knew
one of the other fellows had had the paper in his pocket a day and a
half before the exam
Do you mean to say Greenfield stole it
I mean to say you're not far wrong.  But you'd better ask some of the
Fifth.  It's all come out, I hear, there
And you knew of it before the exam
I guessed it; or you may be sure I'd have taken a little more trouble
over my answers.  It wasn't much use as it was
I'm all right with the Sixth, anyhow
I only
wish I was as right with that blackguard Cripps
I promised to come and tell you about the exam, didn't I
Eh?  Oh, yes, to be sure.  That was last Saturday.  Upon my word, I'd
quite forgotten
Well, you see, my memory was better than yours
Right you are, young captain.  And what about this here fifty-pound
dicky-bird you've been after
The Nightingale
Oh, it's all right, of course; but the
fact is, I forgot when I promised you the money now, that of course
they
Oh, come now, none of your gammon
a
promise is a promise, and I expect young swells as makes them to keep
them, mind that
Oh, of course I'll keep them, Cripps.  What I was saying was that they
don't pay you the money till the beginning of each year
I don't care when they pay you your money!  All I know is I must have
mine now, my young dandy.  Next week the time's up
But, Cripps, how _can_ I pay you unless I've got the money
No, no; I've had enough of that, young gentleman.  This time I'm
a-going to have my way, or the governor shall know all about it,-- you
see
Oh, don't say that
Wait a little longer and it will be
all right, it really will
Not a bit of it.  That's what you said three months ago
I won't ask you again
just this time, Cripps
Why, you ought to be ashamed of yourself, that you ought
a keeping a honest man out of
his money
Oh, but I'm certain to have it then -- that is, next to certain
Oh! then what you're telling me about this here Nightingale of yours is
a lie, is it
A lie?  No; that is -- Why, Cripps, the fact is
Well, drive on
The fact is -- I was going to tell you, Cripps, I was really; there's
been something wrong about this exam.  One of the fellows stole one of
the papers, and so got the scholarship unfairly
And I can make a pretty good guess
which of the fellows that gentleman was
No, it wasn't me, Cripps, really
it was one of the others -- Greenfield in
the Fifth; the fellow, you know, who struck you on Saturday
What, him
That
bloke?  Why, he looked a honest sort of chap, he did, though I _do_ owe
him one
Oh
he's a regular
swindler, is Greenfield.  He stole the paper, you know, and so won the
scholarship, of course.  I was certain of it, if it hadn't been for
that.  I mean to have a row made about it, and there's certain to be
another exam, so that I'm sure of the money if you'll only wait
And how long do you want me to wait, I'd like to know
Oh, till after Christmas, please, at any rate.  It'll be all right
then, I'll answer for that
You'll answer for a lot of things, it strikes me, young gentleman
before you've done
_Do_ wait till then
I don't see how I can.  I'm a poor man, got my rent to pay and all
that.  Look here, young gentleman, I must have 10 pounds down, if I'm to
wait
Ten pounds!  I haven't as much in the world
I can
give you five pounds, though
I've just got a note from
home to-day
Five's no use
wouldn't pay not the
interest.  You'll have to make it a tenner, young gentleman
Don't say that, Cripps, I'd gladly do it if I could; I'd pay you every
farthing, and so I will if you only wait
That's just the way with you young swells.  You get your own ways, and
leave other people to get theirs best way they can.  Where's your
five-pound
Well, I suppose I'll have to give in.  How long do you say -- two
months
Three
Oh, thanks, Cripps, I really _will_ pay up then
You'd better, because, mind you, if you don't, I shall walk straight to
the governor.  Don't make any mistake about that
Oh, yes, so you may
There's eight pounds of it paid right off
and
before Christmas something is sure to turn up.  Besides, I'm sure to get
some more money from home between now and then.  Oh, it'll be all
right
leaving Oliver to himself
Do you hear the lies the fellows are telling about you, Noll
Yes
Why don't you stop it, and tell them
What's the use?  I've told them once.  If they don't choose to believe
it, they needn't
_I'll_ let them know, if _you_ won't
I say, Wray
do you hear all the lies the fellows are
telling about Noll
Don't make a row now
I'm busy
The fellows say he stole an exam paper, the blackguards!  I'd like to
punch all their heads, and I will too
Clear out of my study, now
I say, Wray, surely _you_ don't believe it
Go away now
Surely _you_ don't believe it
_you_ aren't a blackguard, like the rest
Do you hear what I tell you
No, and I don't mean to
If you were
anything of a friend you'd stand up for Oliver.  You're a beast,
Wraysford, that's what you are
You're a
blackguard! you're a liar!  I could kill you
Beastly young blub-baby
you're always
blubbing!  I never knew such a fellow to blub, did you, Padger
Yah, boo, howling young sucking pig! go
home to your mammy, or your great big cheat of a blackguard thief of a
caddish big brother!  Do you hear?  Who stole the exam paper?  Eh,
Padger?  Yah, boo, pack of sneaking Guinea-pigs
Shut up, you young cad, will you
you know well enough _you_
stole the paper
Yes,
and expelled too
They ought all to be expelled, every one of them
all
except Greenfield senior, and I hope they will be
All I know is
I'll let them have a bit of my mind, some
of them
So will I
You haven't got any to give 'em a bit of
so now
All right, I'll give 'em a bit of _you_ then
You wouldn't get any of them to touch him with a pair of tongs
I tell you
what, _I_ mean to stick to Greenfield senior
So do I
I mean _to
fag_ for him
So do I
So do I
We'll all fag for him, I vote, eh, Stee
the whole lot of
us!  My eye, that'll be prime!  Won't the others just about look black
and blue
Look here
when are you going to let me
have that paper of yours
What paper do you mean
Why for the _Dominican_, of course; you don't suppose I want one of
your cast-off exam papers, do you
Oh, I can't do anything for the _Dominican_ this time
Yes, you can, and yes, you will
Who says I will
It sounds as if _I_ do
Why of course you'll do
something for it, Rick
I'd be glad enough, but really I'm not in the humour
Why ever not
Why, the fact is
I fancy the Fifth is not exactly
looking up at present, and we've nothing particular to be proud of.  If
you take my advice you'll keep the _Dominican_ quiet for a bit
My dear fellow, that's the very thing we mustn't do.  Don't you see,
you old duffer you, that if we shut up shop and retire into private
life, everybody will be thinking we daren't hold up our heads?  I mean
to hold up my head, for one
if there were a
thousand Greenfields in the class; and I mean to make you hold up yours
too, old man.  It'll be time enough to do the hang-dog business when we
all turn knaves; but till we do, we've as good a right to be known at
Saint Dominic's as anybody else.  So none of your humbug, Rick.  We'll
get out an extra good _Dominican_, and let the fellows see we're alive
and kicking
An Elegy on the Wick of a Candle that had just been
blown out
My Little Lark
An Adventure outside the Dormitory Door
Mind Mewsings
pieces
New Code of
Regulations for the Better Management of Guinea-pigs and Tadpoles
A society has lately been started at Saint Dominic's for the
preservation and management of Guinea-pigs and Tadpoles.  The following
are some of the rules to be observed:--

"Any one owning a Guinea-pig or Tadpole is to be responsible for washing
it with soap and hot water at least twice a day.

"Any one owning a Guinea-pig or Tadpole is to supply the rest of the
school with cotton wool and scent.

"No Guinea-pig or Tadpole is on any account to use hair oil or grease
which has not been sanctioned by a joint committee of the Fifth, Sixth,
and masters.

"During the approaching winter, every one possessing a Guinea-pig or
Tadpole shall be at liberty, providing it is regularly washed, to use it
as a warming-pan for his own bed
first read
They won't!  I'll see they won't use me as a warming-pan, won't you,
Padger?  The brutes!  I'll bite their horrid cold feet if they stick
them against me, that's what I'll do
I'll keep a pin to stick into them
I'll get some leeches and put on their legs
I'll tell you what
it's cool
cheek of them calling us &bquo;it,' as if we were things
So they have
oh, I say, that's too much; I'll let
them know _I'm_ not a thing
Yes, you are a thing, isn't he, Padger?  A regular _it_
Yah, boo, old &bquo;_its_,' both of you
Hold hard
Listen to this
Immediate steps are to be taken to pickle a Tadpole as a specimen for
the school museum.  The following is a recipe for this.  Take the
ugliest, dirtiest, noisiest, and most ignorant specimen that can be
found.  Lift it carefully with a pair of tongs into a bath full of
vinegar.  Close the lid and let it remain there to soak for a week.  At
the end of that time lift it out and scrape it well all over with a
sharp substance, to get off the first coating of grime.  Soak again for
another week and scrape again, and so on till the ninth or tenth coating
is removed.  After that the creature will appear thinner than when it
began.  Hang it up to dry in a clean place, and be sure no other
Guinea-pigs or Tadpoles come near it.  Then put it in a clean gown, and
quickly, before it can get at the ink, put it in a large glass bottle
and fasten down the stopper.  Label it, &bquo;Specimen of a curious reptile
formerly found at Saint Dominic's.  Now happily extinct
There you are
There you are,
Bramble, my boy; what do you think of that
An Adventure
outside the Dormitory Door
epick
Outside the Dormitory door
  I walked me slow upon the floor
  And just outside the Doctor's study
  A youth I met all in a hurry;
  His name perhaps I had better not tell
  But like a snail retire into my shell
adventure
Now I must say farewell; yet stay, methinks
  How many many youths do sit on brinks.
  Oh joy to feel the soft breeze sigh
  And in the shady grove to wipe the eye,
  It makes me feel a man I know full well,
  But like a snail I'll now retire within my shell
The examination for the Nightingale Scholarship was held on the 1st
  October.  The scholarship was lost by Loman of the Sixth by 70 marks
  to 97.  A good performance on the whole
Notes from Coventry
If the fellow is at Coventry, why not let him stay there
The best thing we can possibly do is to let him alone
I don't see it
Everybody will think we are trying
to shield him if we keep so quiet.  Anyhow, here's my paper.  You can
put it in or not, which you like.  I'm not going to write anything
else
Notes from Coventry
The quaint old city of Coventry has lately been visited by a
&bquo;gentleman' from Saint Dominic's, who appears so charmed with all he has
seen and heard that it is expected he will remain there for some
considerable time.

"The object of his visit is of a private nature, possibly for the
purpose of scientific research, for which absolute quiet is necessary.
His experiments are chiefly directed to the making or taking of
examination papers, and on his return we may look for valuable
discoveries.  Meanwhile he sees very little company.  The society in
which he most delights is that of certain Guinea-pigs, between whom and
himself a special bond of sympathy appears to exist.  It is a touching
sight to see him taking his daily walks in company with these singular
animals; who, be it said, seem to be the only creatures able to
appreciate his character.  Curiously enough, since he left us, Saint
Dominic's has not collapsed; indeed, it is a singular fact that now he
is away it is no longer considered necessary for every fellow to lock
his study-door when he goes out, and keep the key
Hullo, Stee
You're just in
time.  Here's a letter from mother
Is there?  How jolly!  Read it out, Noll
I have been so proud
ever since I heard of dear Oliver's success in winning the
scholarship.  Not so much for the value of it, though that is pretty
considerable, but because I am so sure he deserves it
Hear, hear
Poor Mr Wraysford!  I hope he is not very much disappointed.  How nice
it would have been if there had been two scholarships, and each could
have had one!  I suppose the Fifth is making quite a hero of Oliver.  I
know one foolish old woman who would like to be with her boys this
moment to share their triumph
That _would_ be a treat for her
And if, instead of triumph, they should ever be in trouble or sorrow,
still more would I love to be with them, to share it.  But most of all
do I trust and pray they may both make a constant friend of the Saviour,
who wants us all to cast our burdens on Him, and follow the example He
has left us in all things
Christmas will not be so very long now in
coming.  We must have a real snug, old-fashioned time of it here.  Uncle
Henry has promised to come, and your cousins.  It would be nice if you
could persuade Mr Wraysford to come here then.  I am so anxious to see
him again.  Tell him from me I reckon on him to be one of our party if
he can possibly manage it
Baa
The beast!  I'll let her know what sort of
blackguard the fellow is
Easy all, young 'un
I shan't easy all, Noll
he _is_ a blackguard, you
know he is, and I hate him
I think he's a fool just now
but -- well, he fished you
out of the Thames, Stee; you oughtn't to call him a blackguard
I wish he'd left me in the Thames
I've been miserable enough this term for half a dozen
Don't
make a young fool of yourself, Stee, whatever you do.  It won't do a bit
of good
But, Noll, old man
why ever don't you
Because I don't choose, and it would be no use if I did
But the fellows all suspect you
I can't help that, if they do.  Come now, Stee, we've had enough of
this.  It'll all come right some day, you see, and meanwhile what do you
say to a turn in the gymnasium
Well, but
you surely aren't
going to give mother's message to Wraysford?  _I_ don't want him home at
Christmas
No one asked you if you did, you young duffer.  But I don't think, all
the same, I shall give it just yet
The Doctor ought to put a stop to it
Why, we've not got a single man worth twopence behind the scrimmage
I don't see why we shouldn't get him to play if he _is_ at Coventry
_we_ didn't send him there
All very well
if we got him we should lose
Ricketts, and Bullinger, and Tom Senior, and Braddy, which would come to
about the same thing
And I shouldn't play either
if Greenfield played
All child's play
They think it's very grand and a fine
spectacle and all that.  But they ought to have more consideration for
the credit of the school
It's not much to the credit of the school
to have a
fellow like him in the fifteen
It's less credit to have a pack of louts who tumble head over heels
every time they try to pick up a ball, and funk a charge twice out of
every thrice
Greenfield's worth any half-dozen of you, I tell you
Better get him to play Landfield by himself
It's a plaguey nuisance, that's what it is
we are
sure to get licked.  Who's to play half-back instead of him, I'd like to
know
Forrester, in the Fourth, plays a very good half-back
he's tremendously quick on his feet
Yes, but he can't kick.  I've a good mind to put Wraysford in the
place.  And yet he's such a rattling steady &bquo;back' I don't like to move
him
Wraysford told me yesterday
he wasn't going to play
What
Wraysford not going to play
So he said
Oh, this is a drop too much!  Why ever not
I don't know.  He's been awfully down in the mouth lately; whether it
is about the Nightingale, or
I wish that miserable brute of a Nightingale had been scragged, that I
do!  Everything's stopped for the Nightingale!  Who cares a button about
the thing, I'd like to know?  Wraysford can get dozens more of them
after the football season's over.  Why, the Doctor gave out another
scholarship to be gone in for directly after Christmas, only to-day.
Can't he go in for that
So he will, I expect
but I don't fancy he'll play, all
the same, on Saturday
There go my two best men
we may as
well shut up shop and go in for croquet
Oh, no, we can't
I say, Wraysford
I expect it's this Nightingale affair's at the bottom of all
this nonsense.  Can't you possibly patch it up, at any rate till after
Saturday?  I'd give my head to get you and Greenfield in the team
Do play, Wraysford
Don't let the school be beaten
just because you've got a row on with another fellow
It's not that at all
It's nothing to do with that.  It's just that I'm not
in the humour.  I'd really rather not
Oh, look here
that won't wash.  Come to oblige me,
there's a good fellow
little bill
Kick
Run
mush
It'll do at this rate
As long as they
keep it among the forwards we shan't hurt
What a jackass I was to put the fellow there
pals
Go up nearer the line: close up
What cheer, Nightingale?  What cheer, my
hearty?  Stick to your man; eh, let him have it, Mr Loman!  Two to one
in half-sovereigns on Mr Loman
Go up forward, for goodness' sake
if you must play the
fool!  I'll go half-back myself
Look-out behind there
Well
well, you _do_ do it, you do.  Bless
me!  I call that proper sport, I do.  What do you put on the game, bobs
or sovereigns, eh?  Never mind, I and my pals we wanted a dander, so we
thought we'd look you up, eh?  You know Tommy Granger here?  I heard him
saying as we came along he wondered what you'd stand to drink after it
all
I say
for goodness' sake go
away, Cripps!  I shall get into an awful row if you don't
Oh, all serene, my young bantam
I'll go if you want it so
particular as all that.  _I_ can tear myself away.  Only mind you come
and give us a look up soon, young gentleman, for I and my pals ain't
seen you for a good while now, and was afraid something was up.  Ta! ta!
Good-day, young gentlemen all.  By-bye, my young Nightingales
Jellicott
Greenfield in the Fifth is
not well, I'm afraid.  I never see him out in the playground
Really
I'm so rarely out there that I haven't
noticed.  I believe, however, he is quite well
I hope he is not overworking
He has done so very
well this term that it would be a pity if he spoiled his chance by
knocking himself up
Greenfield senior
appears to be unpopular just at
present; at least, so I gather from what I have heard.  I don't know
what crime he has committed, but the tribunal of his class have been
very severe on him, I fancy
Boys will be boys!  Well, it's a relief if that's the solution of the
mystery, for I was afraid he was ill.  We have no right to interfere
with these boyish freaks, as long as they are not mischievous.  But you
might keep your eye on the little comedy, Jellicott.  It would be a pity
for it to go too far
We might only make things worse
by meddling.  Things like
this always right themselves far better than an outsider can right them.
Besides, as Greenfield will get his move up after Christmas, he will be
less dependent on the good graces of his present class-fellows
My dearie
don't stamp so.  The poor old
gentleman can't hear his own voice
That's no matter
my dearie
If
we keep it up the old boy may give us an extra week's holiday
General proficiency
Watson
the second arithmetic
prize
Bravo, Guinea-pigs
That fellow
Paul is a beast
Third
arithmetic -- Padger
First Latin -- Greenfield junior
If you boys will make a _little_ less
noise I dare say we shall get through the list quite as satisfactorily,
and possibly a little more quickly
Hear, hear
Well kicked, sir
Hack it through
Fifth Form --(cheers)-- French --(cheers)-- Pembury --(terrific applause,
during which Tony walks in demurely on his crutches and receives his
well-merited award).  English history --(applause)-- Pembury
Bravo, Tony
Hurrah for the _Dominican_
Well done, Editor
First Greek prize -- Wraysford
I have great
pleasure, Wraysford, in handing you this prize.  Your schoolfellows are
all proud of you; I feel sure you deserve their good opinion.  I wish
you success, Wraysford
The next name
is that of the
winner of the Nightingale Scholarship --(sensation)-- and I may tell your
lordship that the boy is, in the opinion of his examiners and myself,
one of the most promising boys for his age that Saint Dominic's has
known.  The examiners report that his answers to the questions on the
paper deserve the greatest credit.  I will say only this before his
face: Nightingale Scholarship -- Greenfield senior
You off by this train
Yes; are you
I may as well.  I can get home by nine; and my people won't be in a
great rage if I turn up earlier than they expect
Well, we may as well get a fly as wait for the wretched omnibus
Come along; there are flies at the corner of Hall Street
Good-bye, Greenfield
I hope
I wonder
I wonder, Wray, if it's
possible we are wrong about that fellow
He doesn't act like a guilty person.  Just fancy, Wray
just fancy if you and I and
the rest have been making fools of ourselves all the term
Tom
that was
an extraordinary demonstration on prize-day, when Greenfield senior came
up to get his scholarship
It wasn't me
My dear boy, I never supposed it was
But
it surprised me very much, as well as pained me
I couldn't help it
Of course you couldn't, Tom.  But I am sorry to find Greenfield is so
unpopular in the school
What dreadful crime has he committed, Tom, to be treated so severely
I don't want to treat him severely
Tom
you are very foolish.  I was not referring to you
particularly, but to the whole school
What has he done to offend you all?  Has he missed a catch at cricket,
or a kick at football?  I hope, whatever it is
It isn't me
run of luck
In consequence of this
the removes gained last
term will not be put into force for a week or two, till the head master
returns; but, meanwhile, Dr Senior is anxious that the work of the
school should go on as usual.  We shall, therefore, resume studies
to-morrow; and on Monday next the examination for the Waterston
Exhibition will be held, as arranged.  The three boys -- Loman, Greenfield
senior, and Wraysford -- entered for this will be excused ordinary lessons
till after the examination
Of course -- he couldn't steal the paper this time, that's why
At any rate
this examination will settle it
Time will be up in five minutes,
boys
Look at those two beggars
There's a neck-and-neck race for
you
Cease writing and bring up your
papers
A second or
two more would have done it
There's that beast Wraysford
Noll, old man
the
youngster's right -- I _am_ a beast
The falling out of faithful friends
renewing is of love
Stee, you young beggar
if you
don't have my tea piping hot to-night, and fresh herrings for three done
to a regular turn, I'll flay you alive, my boy.  And now, if you're
good, you may come and kick me
Oh, Noll! _isn't_ this prime?  Why,
here's old Wray
That beast Wraysford
do give a
fellow his proper name, young 'un
You see
I can't imagine now what possessed me to
make such a fool of myself
Now you needn't begin at that again
If I hadn't cut up
so at that jackass Simon, when he began about my being in the Doctor's
study that evening, it would never have happened
Bah! any one might have known the fellow was telling lies
But he wasn't telling lies
I _was_ in the Doctor's
study all alone that evening, and at the very time the paper went too.
That's just the queer thing about it
You were
Yes, of course I was.  Don't you know I went to see him about Stephen,
and that row he had up at the Lock
Oh, yes
I remember.  I was in a regular blue funk that
evening
Well, the Doctor wasn't there.  I hung about a few minutes for him, and
then, as he didn't turn up, I left, and met that old booby just as I was
coming out of the door
And he's gone and told everybody he saw you coming out with the paper
in your pocket
Upon my word, the fellow must have sharp eyes if he could do that!
Well, I was so disgusted when he came up after the examination, and
began to insinuate that I knew all about the missing paper, that -- Well,
you know how I distinguished myself
It would have served him right if you'd throttled him
But I say, Noll
why on earth, old
man, didn't you say all this then?  What a lot of unpleasantness it
would have saved
What
do you suppose, when the
fellows all chose to believe that miserable idiot's story, I was going
to stir a finger or bother myself a snap about what they thought?  Bah!
I'm not angry now, Wray; but, upon my word, when I think of that time
What a pack of curs we all were
Hear, hear
But, Noll, I say, old man
of course you
didn't intend it, but if you meant to make every one believe you did it,
you couldn't have gone on better than you did.  I'm certain not half the
fellows would have believed Simon if you hadn't
Made such an ass of myself
Of course I can
see now how it would all work in beautifully against me, and I'm certain
I've myself to thank for the whole business
Now, don't say that.  Nothing can excuse the way all of us treated you,
poor old boy.  But, thank goodness, it's all right now.  I'll let them
know
Now, Wray, that's just what I won't have you do.  You must not say a
word to them about it, or, seriously, I'll be in a great rage.  If they
can't think well of me of their own accord, I won't have them do it for
anybody else's, so there
But, Noll, old man
Upon my word, Wray, I mean what I say.  Not a word to anybody
Do you mean to say you intend to live at Coventry all your life
It's not Coventry now, is it, Stee, old boy
And now, Wray
I want to know how you got on
in the exam to-day.  You were going ahead furiously, it seemed to me
Yes, but wasn't doing much good, I'm afraid.  How have you done
Pretty well; but I hadn't time to touch the last question
I knew, as soon as I saw you were entered for the exam
we had all been taking you up wrong.  I can guess now why
you went in for it
Well, it struck me it might be a way of putting myself right with the
fellows if I won; but I'm half afraid I won't win, and then their
highnesses will be doubly sure of my villainy
I know you will win
If I do I shall feel an awful blackguard, for you would have been
certain of it
I'm not so very sure.  However, I think I could have beaten Loman
He seemed out of it, quite.  Do you know I think that fellow is going
to the dogs altogether
Pity
if he is, but it does look like it
Why didn't he send it by post
Don't you know if you were seen up here
there'd be a row
Dunno so much about that, but the governor, he says he's dead on the
job this time, he says, and if you don't show up sharp with the stumpy,
he says he'll give you a call himself and wake you up, he says
Tell him I'll come, and go off quick
Beg pardon, mister
anything allowed for this here little job -- carrying up the
letter
I'll allow you a kick if you don't go
Oh, very good
Wait till the
governor walks up.  We'll see who'll kick then
Hullo
who's your friend,
Loman?  He looks a nice sort of boy
Oh, that boy?  Why -- oh, he's a
shop-boy from the town, come up about an order -- you know -- for a
hat-box
I don't know.  Do you mean Morris's boy
Ye -- yes.  A new boy of Morris's
Well, whoever he is, he's a precious cheeky specimen.  Why didn't you
kick him
Eh?  Kick him?  Yes, I was just going to
when
When I turned up?  Well, I shouldn't have interfered.  By the way,
Loman, I suppose you've given up going to that public now?  What's the
fellow's name
Cripps
Oh, I never go near the place now
That's a good job.  It was awkward enough his turning up as he did last
term, and all a chance the Doctor didn't hear of it, I can tell you.
Anyhow, now I'm captain, that sort of thing will have to drop, mind
Oh, I assure you I've never been near the place since
I'm glad of it
Hullo, Loman, I say.  I saw Cripps to-day.  He was asking after
you.  He says you've not been down since last Sat -- Hullo, Wren
So _you've_ been down to the Cockchafer, have you
Well.  Oh, don't tell, Wren, I say.  I don't often go.  Ask Loman if I
do.  He's always there, and could easily tell if I went.  Do I go often,
Loman?  Besides, I've given it up now
Quick work
if you were down there this
morning
Well
I didn't think there
could be any harm, as Loman goes.  _He's_ a monitor.  And then I don't
owe Cripps money, do I, Loman?  Or play cards and bet, like you, do I?
Oh, look here, Wren, do let us off this time.  Don't report me, there's
a good fellow.  I promise I won't do it again!  Oh, I say, Loman, beg us
off.  I never let out on you -- not even when you got
Wraysford takes your place as monitor.  The Doctor will be told you
have &bquo;resigned.'-- C.W
the better part of valour
Well
Well
I suppose you've got my money
No, Cripps, I haven't
All right
that's quite enough for me
Cripps
Cripps, I want to
speak to you
You may want
I've done with you, young
gentleman
Oh, Cripps, don't talk like that!  I do mean to pay you, every
farthing, but
Yes, you're very good at meaning, you are
Anyhow,
it don't much matter to me _now_
What _do_ you mean, Cripps?  Oh, do give me a little more time!  A
week -- only a week longer
Aren't you done
aren't you going home
Will you, Cripps?  Have pity on me!  I'm so miserable
Give us just a week more
Do speak, Cripps; say you will; please do
Oh, what shall I do, what _shall_ I do
I
shall be ruined if you don't have some pity
Look here
you'd better stop that noise here, my
lad.  You can go; do you hear?  Look alive
I have just received
I have just
received from the examiners the report on the Waterston examination.
The result is as follows: First -- Greenfield, 108 marks; second --
Wraysford, 96 marks; third -- Loman, 20 marks
Bravo,
Loman! very good
The examiners add an expression of their very high approval
of Greenfield's answers.  The highest marks obtainable were 120, and,
considering he left the last question untouched -- doubtless for want of
time -- they feel that he has passed with very great distinction, and
fully in accordance with their expectations of the winner of the
Nightingale Scholarship last term.  We will now proceed to the usual
lessons
Isn't it queer
Whoever would have thought of it
turning out like this
One could understand it
if there had been any chance of
his repeating the dodge of last term.  But he couldn't have done that
I don't know
he may have been up to some other dodge.
Perhaps he copied off Wraysford
Hardly likely
up on the front desk just under
Jellicott's nose
Well, I can't make it out at all
Nor can I
What do _you_ think, Simon?  Did you see Greenfield stealing the
examination paper this time, eh
Oh, no, not this time
last term it was,
you know.  I didn't see him this time
Oh, you didn't even see him with it in his pocket?  Now, be very
careful.  Are you sure he didn't have it in his pocket a day before the
exam
Why
how could I see
what was in a fellow's pocket, Pembury, you silly!  I can't tell what's
in your pocket
Oh, can't you?  I thought you could, upon my honour.  I thought you saw
the paper in Greenfield's pocket last term
So I did.  That is
Suppose
suppose, when Braddy's done
playing the fool, if such a time ever comes
Suppose
suppose, instead
of Greenfield senior being a thief and liar, I and all of you have been
fools and worse for the last six months?  Wouldn't that be funny, you
fellows
Why, whatever do you mean
Why, you don't suppose I mean anything, do you
What's the use of saying what you mean
But do you really
I say, suppose I and you, Bullinger, and one or two others here who
ought to have known better, have been making fools of ourselves,
wouldn't that be funny
Very funny
I was certain how it would be, old boy
I wonder what the Fifth will say now?  Bah! it doesn't
become me to say too much, though, for I was as bad as any of them
myself
No, you weren't, old boy; you never really believed it.  But I say,
Wray, I don't intend to take this exhibition.  You must have it
I
Not a bit of me.  You won it
But I never meant to go in for it, and wouldn't have if it had not been
for the Fifth.  After all, it's only twenty pounds.  Do take it, old
man.  I've got the Nightingale, you know
What does that matter?  I wouldn't have this for anything.  The fellows
tried to make me think _I_ was the real winner of the Nightingale, and I
was idiot enough half to believe it.  But I think I've had a lesson
But, Wray
Not a word, my dear fellow; I won't hear of it
Very well, then; I shall shy the money when I get it into the nearest
fish-pond
All serene
I hope the fish will relish
it
Come in
Oh, Greenfield
excuse me.  I want to speak to you
Stay where you are, Wray
What is it, Loman
I was glad to hear you got the Waterston
I -- I thought you
would
You'll wonder what I have come here for.  I know we've not been
friends.  But -- but, Greenfield, I'm in awful trouble
What is it
Why, the fact is
the fact is,
Greenfield, I'm in debt.  I've been very foolish, you know, betting and
all that.  I say, Greenfield, _could_ you possibly -- would you lend me --
eight pounds?  I don't know why I ask you, but unless I can pay the
money to-day, I shall
What
eight pounds to pay your bets
Oh, no, not all bets.  I've been swindled too -- by Cripps.  You know
Cripps
I could pay you back in a month or so
or at any rate
before Easter.  Do lend it me, please, Greenfield.  I don't know where
else to go and ask, and I shall get into such an awful row if I can't
pay.  Will you
Wray
have you any money about you
I've three pounds
Noll, old man
you've got a spare
arm.  May I take it
Rather
Yours very sincerely, H. Bullinger
jolly day
It's all very well
I dare
say they are all right, but it makes it jolly uncomfortable for us
They oughtn't to have given in in this way without letting the rest of
us know first
Just see what a corner it puts us in
All I can say is
I'll be better satisfied when I
know who _did_ collar that paper if Greenfield didn't
Oh, but
I can assure you I saw him when
he took it.  I was going
Shut up, you great booby
who asked _you_ anything
about it
Yes, who did take the paper? that's it.  Greenfield must have done it.
Why, he as good as admitted it last term
Well, then, it's very queer those fellows making up to him
It's no use our trying to send the fellow to Coventry when
the others don't back us up
Wraysford always was daft about Greenfield
but I am
astonished at Pembury and Bullinger
All I can say is
Greenfield will have to ask me before
I have anything to do with him
And do you know
I heard to-day he is down to play in
the match against the County
Is he
very well, then.  _I_ shall
not play if he does.  That's all about that
Awfully sorry, old man, but you're not in the fifteen this time
What
I'm not in the
team
You'll see the list on the notice board; you'd better go and look
You're in the team, Ricketts, I see
Shall _you_
play if Greenfield does
Don't know
A fellow doesn't get a chance to play
against the County every day.  It's precious awkward
So it is; that's just where we began, too
Hullo, I say, Guinea-pigs, you can shut up shop now, you know.  We're
going to let off Greenfield senior this time, ain't we, Padger?  Jolly
fellow, Greenfield senior
Bah!  A lot he'll care for _your_ letting him off
He wouldn't touch you with a shovel
Oh, yes, he would, though, wouldn't he, Padger?  And what do you think,
Guinea-pigs? _we're going to get Greenfield senior to take the chair at
one of our meetings_
Now, you fellows
those who say three cheers for Greenfield senior hold up
what man has done man can do
universal hope of seeing him back in all his former vigour
The Guinea-pigs and Tadpoles
looked quite
unearthly in their cleanliness.  It was commonly reported that one or
two of them had washed their faces twice in one week.  But this is
hardly credible.  It is, however, a fact that Bramble was shut up in his
study for half an hour with his grandmother and a basin of hot water,
and that the conclusion come to from the yells and shrieks which
proceeded from the torture-chamber that evening, and the appearance of
the dear child next day, is that he undoubtedly underwent one scrubbing
this term
But the event of the day was the presentation of the Nightingale
Scholarship, which will be sufficiently fresh in our readers' memories
to need no comment here, save this one word -- that the only Dominican who
behaved himself like a gentleman during that remarkable scene was the
winner of the scholarship himself
The Waterston Exhibition, our readers will be glad to hear, has been
won -- and won brilliantly -- by Oliver Greenfield, now of the Sixth.  No
fellow in Saint Dominic's deserves the honour better
Speaking of Greenfield senior, it is time some of us who have been
doing him injustice for a whole term did what little we could to make
amends now.  So here goes.  Take notice, all of you, that we, the
undersigned, are heartily ashamed of our conduct to Greenfield senior,
and desire all Saint Dominic's to know it.  Signed, A. Pembury, H.
Wraysford, T. Bullinger
The following are also ashamed of themselves, but don't like to say so.
The _Dominican_ means to give them a leg up:-- Tom Senior, G. Ricketts,
R. Braddy, and the rest of the Fifth, except Simon, who never was or
could be ashamed of himself while he lived to write such pathetic,
soul-stirring lines as the following &bquo;Sonits
Oh, I say! read that last one again, some one
Oh!  I say
would you like a copy of it
Eh -- oh, rather
Very good.  You won't mind if I put a few more verses in, will you?
Pembury had to cut some out
My dear fellow, I shan't be happy unless I get at least twenty pages
Gone Up
Alas! our occupation's gone!  No longer will the _Dominican_ be
able to bring its sledge-hammer down on high places and walk into the
Sixth.  For two of our men, O Fifth!-- Greenfield and Wraysford -- have
joined the classic ranks of those who eat toffee in the top form, and
play &bquo;odds and evens' under the highest desks of Saint Dominic's.  We
must be careful now, or we shall catch it.  And yet we ought to
congratulate the Sixth!  At last they have got intelligence and high
principle, and two good men behind a scrimmage among them; and more are
coming!  There's some hope for the Sixth yet, and we would not grudge
even our two best men for such a good object as regenerating the top
form of Saint Dominic's
Notes from Coventry, continued
Since our last, the population of Coventry has undergone a change.  The
former inhabitant has walked out with flying colours, and the place is
empty.  Who wants to go
By the way, the _Dominican_ wants to know why Loman is no longer a
monitor?  Do his engagements with friends in Maltby prevent his giving
the necessary time to this duty? or are the Sixth beginning to see that
if they want order in the school they must have fellows who have at
least a little influence to do it?  They have done well in appointing
Wraysford.  But why is Loman resigned?  Who can tell?  It's a riddle.  A
prize for the best answer in our next
Notes and Queries from
Down Below
Lessons.-- Padger the Tadpole writes to ask, &bquo;How do you do lessons?'
The answer is a simple one, Padger.  If you are a member of the Fourth
Junior, as we have a vague idea you are, the way of &bquo;doing' lessons
there is as follows: Sit at a desk full of old cherry-stones,
orange-peel, and dusty sherbet, and put your elbows on it.  Then with
your pen scatter as much ink as you conveniently can over your own
collar and face, and everybody else, without unduly exerting yourself.
After that kick your right and left neighbours; then carefully rub your
hands in the dust and pass them several times over your countenance, all
the while making the most hideous and abominable howls and shrieks you
can invent.  And then your lessons are &bquo;done
To-morrow week the football match of the season, School against County,
will be played in the Saint Dominic's meadow.  We are glad to say the
School team will be a crack one, including this time Greenfield senior,
and excluding one or two of the &bquo;incompetents' of last term.  The
following is the school fifteen:-- Stansfield (football captain), Brown,
Winter, Callonby, Duncan, Ricketts, T. Senior, Henderson, Carter, and
Watkins, forwards; Wren (school captain) and Forrester (iv.),
quarter-back; Greenfield and Bullinger, half-back; and Wraysford, back.
With a team like this the school ought to give a good account of itself
against our visitors
Is Cripps at home
Yas
Who wants him
I do, you young blockhead
You do?  Oh, all right!  I'll tell him, mister.  Don't you collar no
mugs while I'm gone, mind
Oh
the governor can't see you, he says.  He's a-smoking his
pipe, he says, and he ain't a-goin' to put himself about, he says, for
the likes of you.  That's what he says!  Ti ridde tol rol ro
Look here
tell him I
_must_ see him; I've got some money for him, tell him
No! have you
Well, wait till I've done this here
job -- I'm dead on this here job, I am!  You can keep, you can
What do you mean, you thieving jackanapes, you!  Get out
of my shop, do you hear? or I'll get some one in who will help you out!
_I'll_ teach you to come here and make yourself at home, you lying
Now, Cripps
Hold your noise! do you hear
I'm very sorry, Cripps
I didn't mean to hurt
him, but he
Oh! you won't go, won't you?  Very good! we'll see if we can make you
Go and tell your master I'm here still, and want to see him
particularly
You're
got to wait
Here's the rest of the money
You can give me
back the bill now, Cripps
Give me the bill
What do you want the bill for
Want it for?  Why, Cripps
Fire away
I've paid you all I owe
What if you have
Then give me back that bill
I must tell father all about it
Steady there, young gentleman, what a hurry you are in!  A
man can't have a little bit of fun, just to see how you like it, but
there you go, and give it all up, and go and get yourself into a regular
perspiration!  Tell the governor, indeed!  You don't suppose I'd let you
get yourself into such a mess as all that, do you?  No, no.  You shall
have the bill, my man, never fear
Oh, thank you, Cripps, thank you
Pon my word, I might take offence, that I might, at your wanting the
paper.  As if _I'd_ ever take advantage of a young gentleman like you!
No, no; honesty's the best policy for us poor folks as well as for you
nobs.  No one can say I defrauded any one
Oh, no, of course not
I should like
to see any one who did
Is that it
Looks like it
Three months after date I promise to pay George
Cripps thirty-five pounds, value received.  Signed, E. Loman.'  That's
about it, eh, young gentleman?  Well, blessed if I ain't a soft-hearted
chap after the doing you've given me over this here business.  Look
here; here goes
Thanks, Cripps, thanks
I am so glad everything's
settled now, and I am so sorry to have kept you waiting so long
Oh, well, as long as it's been an obligement to you, I don't so much
care
And now you've done with me I suppose
you'll cut me dead, eh, young gentleman?  Just the way.  You stick to us
as long as you can get anything out of us, and then we're nobodies
Oh, no
I don't mean to cut you, Cripps.  I shall come
down now and then -- really I will -- when I can manage it.  Good-bye now
Good-day, young gentleman
It is a most remarkable thing, and I am really pleased we have fallen
on the passage
that this identical mistake, if it is a
mistake, occurs in a line of Juvenal; it is in the -- dear me, I have
forgotten how it begins!  Has any one here a Juvenal
I have one in my study, sir
Ah!  Would you fetch it, Loman, please?  I think I know precisely where
the line occurs
Thank you, Loman.  Now, it is in the Fourth -- no, the Fifth Satire
Let me see -- yes, not far from -- ah
Loman
will you come and find the passage for me?  Turn to
the Fifth Satire
The Fifth Satire
That will do.  Hand me the book, Loman
Hand me that paper, Loman
Obey me, Loman
This paper
this paper is
the missing paper of questions for the Nightingale Scholarship last
term.  Loman, remain here, please.  The other boys may go
How do you account for this, Loman
Answer me please, Loman.  Can you account for this
No
Did you ever see this paper before
No
Do you know how it came into your Juvenal
No
Did you know anything at all about the lost paper
No
Loman, are you sure you are telling me the truth?  You know nothing
whatever about the paper -- never saw it before this moment
No
You knew the paper had been missed off my desk
Yes
Had you the least reason for believing any boy took it
I would rather not say
You must please answer me frankly, Loman.  Had you any reason, I ask,
for believing any boy took the paper
Must I say
Yes -- you must
Well, then, I did fancy some one had taken it
Who
Greenfield senior
And what made you suspect Greenfield senior
All the boys suspected him
That is not an answer, Loman.  Why
Because, for one thing
he was seen coming out
of your study that evening
And why else
Because he came out so high in the exam
And for these reasons you suspected Greenfield of taking the paper?
Why did you not mention the matter to me
I did not wish to get any one into trouble
And you preferred to let an affair like this go on without taking any
steps to have it cleared up?  Did Greenfield deny the charge
No
Did he admit it
Very nearly.  He wouldn't speak to any one for months
And you really believe that Greenfield took the paper
Yes
Did you lend him your Juvenal at any time
Not that I remember
Do you suppose he put the paper in the book
I couldn't say; but I don't see who else could
That will do, Loman; you can go.  Kindly leave the paper and the
Juvenal with me
You know, I suppose, that the questions which you actually had set for
the Nightingale examination were quite different from those on the
paper
Yes
I mean -- that is
I see by this paper they were quite
different
Yes; you can go now, Loman
What -- whatever does it matter
if the fellow did take it?
_You_ didn't take it, Winter, or you, Wren; and what on earth's the use
of getting down in the mouth, and perhaps losing the match, because of
it?  We're always having our football spoiled by something or other
I'll tell you what it is, let's only lick these
fellows this afternoon, and then I'll howl and groan and do anything you
like, for a week
Fire away, you fellows, and peel
Did you ever expect it would be brought home to Loman like this, Noll
No, I didn't.  And yet in a way
Eh?  What do you say
Why, Wray, you remember me saying that evening, after I left the study,
the only fellow I met in the passage besides Simon was Loman
Yes; so you did
He was going towards the Doctor's study
Hum!  I remember now you said so
And yet
and yet I can't
see how, if he did take the paper, he didn't do better in the exam.  He
came out so very low
Yes, that's queer, unless he took a fit of repentance all of a sudden,
and didn't look at it
Then it's queer he didn't destroy it, instead of sticking it in his
Juvenal
Well, I suppose the Doctor will clear it up, now he's on the scent
I suppose so
but, I say, old man
of course
there's no need for us to say anything about it to anybody.  The poor
beggar doesn't want _our_ help to get him into trouble
No, indeed.  I'd be as glad, quite, if it were found to be another
wrong scent, after all
The fellow's in a bad enough
way as it is
Are you nearly ready, you two
Just ready
It's always the way
They'll simply eat us up while
they've got the chance, you see
No they won't
We're strong in backs.  It's not like last match, when
Greenfield wasn't playing, and Loman was there to make such a mess of
it
Well, it's a comfort, that, anyhow
Of course it is
What you fellows have got to do
is to keep the ball in close, and nurse it along all the while, or else
run -- but you'd better let the quarter-backs do that
Now, School, sit on it!  Do you hear
mush
Played up, Dominies
Stick to it
now
back
Can't you let it out there?  Play looser, and let it through
That's better
Never mind
they shan't get another before half-time
packing
backs
Stick close
Look-out there
mark that man
I'm here
Look-out for the ball there
There never was such a rush-up, or such a pretty piece of double play
Before we begin the lesson for the day, boys, I wish to refer to an
incident that happened here yesterday morning, which must be fresh in
your memories.  I mean the accidental discovery of the lost examination
paper for the Nightingale Scholarship.  I hope you will not draw hasty
conclusions from what then occurred.  The boy in whose book the paper
was found is present here, and has assured me on his honour he never saw
the paper before, and is quite ignorant how it came into his book.  That
is so, Loman
Yes, sir
When a boy makes a statement to me on his honour, I accept it as such
I accept
it as such
But
before I dismiss
the subject I must do justice to one among you who I find, much to my
pain, has been an object of suspicion in connection with this same lost
paper.  Greenfield senior, I have no hesitation in saying, is perfectly
clear of any such imputation as that you put upon him.  I may say in his
presence I believe him to be incapable of a fraudulent and mean act; and
further than that, you boys will be interested to hear that the
questions which he answered so brilliantly in that examination were not
the questions which appeared on the lost paper at all, but an entirely
new set, which for my own satisfaction I drew up on the morning of
examination itself
spec
Yah, boo!  Who stole the exam paper?-- there! old Loman
howlers
Vocal, Instrumental, and
Dramatic Entertainment
Vocal, Instrumental, and Dramatic Entertainment
V. I. and D. Society
thrown open
Vocal, Instrumental, and
Dramatic Entertainment
Rather
five bob each
Masters half price
Greenfield senior free
Bah! do you think Greenfield senior would come to hear you spout, you
young muff
I know what he would come for
and I'd come with him
too.  Guess
Shan't guess.  Shall I, Padger
May as well
He'd come
he'd
come a mile to see you hung.  So would I -- there
presenting
his card
Well, young 'un
I suppose Wray and I are to be allowed
to come and see the fun to-night
Yes
fun
All serene; we'll be there, won't we, Wray?  Not the first Guinea-pig
kick-up we've been witness to, either
Do you think Pembury will come
Oh, rather.  He'll have to report it in the next _Dominican_.  I'll see
he comes
Oh, I think he needn't mind
I
could write out a report for him
Oh, I dare say; a nice report that would be.  No, Tony must be there.
He wouldn't miss it for a five-pound note
Talking of five-pound notes
does
Loman ever mean to pay up that 8 pounds
I don't know; it doesn't look like it
The fact is, he
came to me yesterday to borrow another pound for something or another.
He said Cripps had been up to the school and tried to make out that
there was another owing, and had threatened, unless he got it, at once
to speak to the head master
Did you lend it him
It's a regular swindle
I hadn't got it to lend.  I told him I was sure the fellow was a thief,
and advised him to tell the Doctor
What did he say
Oh, he got in an awful state, and said he would get into no end of a
row, and wouldn't for the world have the Doctor know a word of it
I don't like it at all
Don't you have more to do
than you can help with that business, Noll, old man
But the poor beggar seems regularly at his wits' end
Never mind; you'll do him and yourself no good by lending him money
Well, I haven't done so, for a very good reason, as I tell you.  But
I'm sorry for him.  I do believe he can't see that he's being fleeced.
He made me promise not to utter a word of it to the Doctor, so I really
don't know how to help him
It's my impression he's good reason to be afraid of the Doctor just
now
That Nightingale business has yet to be cleared
up
Vocal, Instrumental, and
Dramatic Entertainment
Oh
oh, that was wrong; he doesn't
begin, and the other fellow's away.  Look here, Bramble, do your thing
now
No, I can't
I've forgotten
the first line
Something about a kid asleep
Oh, yes
Lines on Seeing my Wife and Two Children Asleep'-- Hood
And has the earth
And has the earth --(Go it, Padger, give a fellow a leg up, can't you
I can't find the place
And has the earth --(Look in the index, you lout!  Oh, won't I give it
to you afterwards
reading
Ben Battle
All turn round, and
don't look till I tell you
Now you can turn round
_Who's there_
Have you got a lucifer about you, any of you
_Nay, answer me.  Stand and unfold yourself_
Don't be a fool (in agitated accents); you're shoving me off the
platform
Why don't you light up
_Long live the king_
Ah, here's one.  What's become of the chair
Has any one here seen Loman
Is Greenfield senior here
Yes, sir
Will you come with me to the Doctor at once, please
I'm afraid
I'm afraid something has
happened to Loman
something that must have happened to Loman
Greenfield
when did you see
Loman last
Last night, sir, after preparation
He was not in his class this morning
No, sir -- he sent down word he had a headache
You saw him last night -- where
In my study
Are you and Loman great friends
No, we are not friends
Does he often come to your study
No, sir.  Very rarely
May I ask, Greenfield
why he was in your study last
night
He came to -- to ask me about something
Yes, what
He made me promise not to tell any one
Greenfield
Loman has disappeared from
Saint Dominic's.  Why, I cannot say.  If you know of anything which will
account for this proceeding, you owe it to yourself, to me, and to your
schoolfellow, who may yet be recovered, to speak plainly now
He came to borrow some money
Yes
And he wanted to borrow more money yesterday, then
Yes, sir.  He said Cripps had found there was another sovereign owing,
and had threatened to expose Loman before you and the whole school
unless he got it at once.  But I fancy that must only have been an
excuse
Yes.  And did you lend him the pound
I hadn't got it to lend
the last lot had completely
cleared me out
There is one other question I want to ask you, Greenfield
How long do you suppose
this has been going on
I don't know, sir -- but should think for some time
What makes you think so
Because
because at the
time I spoke to you about the scrape my young brother got into at the
lock, last autumn, Loman was very thick with Cripps
Indeed?  That was just before the Nightingale examination, was it not
Yes, sir
Do you suppose Loman was in debt at that time
I have no idea
You wonder why I ask this question
This letter will explain.  I will read it
to you, as you may be able to throw some light on it.  I received it
just now.  It is from Cripps
Hon. Sir,-- I take the liberty of informing you that one of your young
gents, which his name is Mister Loman, is a prig.  He's been a regular
down at my shop this twelve month, and never paid a farthing for his
liquor.  More than that, he's been a-drawing money from me up to
thirty-five pounds, which I've got his promissory note due last
Micklemas.  He said he was a-going to get a Nightingale or something
then that would pay it all off, and I was flat enough to believe him.
If that ain't enough, he's a-been and played me nicely over a rod I sold
him.  I might have persecuted him over that job but I didn't.  He
cracked it to rights, and then tries to pass it back on me for same as
when he got it, and if I hadn't a-been a bit sharper nor some folk I
should have been clean done.  This is to tell you I ain't a-going to
stand it no longer, and if I don't get my money there'll be a rumpus up
at the school which won't be pleasant for none of you.  So the shortest
cut is to send on the money sharp to your humble servant, Ben Cripps.

"P.S.-- I've wrote and told the young swell I've put you on the job
It is evident
this letter has something to do with
Loman's disappearance
Yes
he was awfully frightened of you or his father
getting to know about it all, sir
Foolish boy
up
along with the old 'un at the lock-'us
You see, Mister
I don't like a-getting young folk into
trouble, but when it comes to robbing a man downright, why, I considers
it my dooty to give your governor the tip and let him know
Not likely
he'd tell me where he was a-goin' to, when he'd
got thirty-five-pound of mine in his pocket, the young thief.  All I can
say is, he'd better not show up again in a hurry till that little bill's
squared up
Wait till he do come back, I says
I'll be on him,
mister, no error.  I'll let the folks know the kind of young gents you
turn out up at your school, so I will
Thirty-five pounds
and if you won't believe me, look at this.  This here bit
of paper's all I've got in return for my money -- all I've got
He really owed you this
He did so -- every brass farthing, which I've waited ever since
Michaelmas for it, mister.  But I ain't a-going to wait no longer.  I
must have my money slap down, I let you know, or somebody shall hear of
it
But he has paid you something
Has he
Oh, that's all right, only I
ain't seen it, that's all
Do you mean he hasn't paid you anything
Of course, as you says so, it ain't for me to say the contrairy; but if
you hadn't told me, I should have said he ain't paid me one brass
farthing, so now
Dear me, dear me
I tell you what
I don't want to do nothing unpleasant to you, or the governor, or
anybody.  What I say is, you'd better see this little bill put square
among you, and then the thing can be kept quiet, do you see?  It would
be awkward for you to have a regular shindy about it, my man, but that's
what it'll come to if I don't get my money
he wasn't a-going to be questioned and brow-beated as if he was a
common pickpocket
Very well
Has Greenfield returned
No
I have just been inquiring.  He has not
returned
Strange
which direction did he take
Up towards Grandham
we went together as far as the
cross roads, and then I went off on the Dallingford road and back by the
river
He ought to be back now
There is no railway or coach from Grandham
he
would have to walk back most likely
And in this rain
Perhaps
he may have heard something
He would have telegraphed
There is no telegraph office there
the Grandham
people have to come here or to Dallingford to telegraph
It is a dreadful night
Those two poor boys
You're cold, old boy
No, I'm not, Wray
but don't talk, Wray,
I
Some one called
A mistake, I fear
Greenfield, I think you had
better close the window.  It will be daylight in
There it is again; come, Wray
No use shouting
against the wind
I _must_ shout
Where -- what did you hear
Some one shouting.  I'm positive of it
Stand still, and listen again
we may be going all
wrong
Well
Hush
We may as well go on
Wait a second or two longer
Try
they may hear it.  Here, Roach, come and
shout -- one, two, three, and a
It's no go
Hullo,
here's the meadow ditch.  Hadn't we better follow it up and down?
Stephen and I will take the left
Oh, be quick
Where does it come from?  Come, Wray,
quick
Is it far
No, old man; that light there is Saint Dominic's
Is it?  I didn't know that when I shouted; I thought we were miles
away
Oh, no!  Hold up, old boy; we're just there
You're humbugging me
You
know I stole that paper
Oh, don't talk of that
Do come back
You know -- can't you get me something to eat
You'll promise to wait here, will
you
Oh, yes! be quick
And you can fancy how punished I was when, after all, the Doctor missed
the paper and altered the questions, Greenfield.  I was so taken aback
that I didn't even answer as well as I could.  And then I lost the paper
I had stolen -- couldn't find it anywhere, and for weeks I was in constant
terror lest it should turn up.  Then I saw the fellows were all
suspecting you to be the thief, and you know how meanly I took advantage
of that to hide my own guilt.  Oh, Greenfield, what a wretch, what a
miserable wretch I have been
Poor fellow
But, I say, do let's
be going back, it's getting late, and looks as if it might rain
I _must_ tell you the rest, Greenfield, please.  You're the only fellow
I can tell it to.  Somehow I think if I'd had a friend like you all the
last year I shouldn't have gone wrong as I have.  How I used to envy you
and Wraysford, always together, and telling one another your troubles!
Well, of course, after the Nightingale exam, things were worse than
ever.  I'd given Cripps a bill, you know, a promise to pay in September.
I don't know anything about bills, but he made me sign it.  Of course I
couldn't pay when it came due, and had to make all sorts of excuses and
tell all sorts of lies to get him to give me more time; as if I was more
likely to pay later on than then!  But, somehow, if I could only get the
thing off my mind for the present, I felt that was all I cared about.
He gave in at last, and I was able to pay it off bit by bit.  But I was
in constant terror all that term of his coming up to Saint Dominic's.
You know he did come once, at the football match against Landfield, and
I thought I was done for
Then there was that Waterston exam.  I fancied I might get that if I
worked.  Ass that I was to think, after all my wasted time and sin, I
had any chance against you or Wraysford!  I tried to work, but soon gave
it up, and went on going down to the Cockchafer instead, to keep Cripps
in good humour, till I was quite a regular there.  You know what a
fearful hash I made of the exam.  I could answer nothing.  That very day
Cripps had sent up to threaten to tell the Doctor everything unless I
paid what I still owed.  I had paid off all the bill but eight pounds.
I had got some of it from home, and some of it by gambling; I'd paid off
all but eight pounds.  You know, Greenfield, who lent me that
I'm thankful we were able to do it
If you'd known how I hated you and despised myself over that eight
pounds you would hardly have been glad.  Everything was hateful.  I took
the money down to Cripps and paid it him.  He pretended at first that he
wouldn't take it; and then when he did, and I asked him to give me back
my promissory note, he laughed at me.  I nearly went mad, Greenfield, at
the thought of not being clear after all.  At length he did make believe
to give in, and produced what I thought was the bill, and tore it up in
my presence.  I couldn't see it, but he read it out aloud, and I had no
doubt it was actually the thing.  I was so grateful I actually felt
happy.  But then came the discovery of that miserable exam paper.  I
must have left it in my Juvenal last September, and forgotten all about
it.  I was certain the Doctor knew quite well I was the thief, but I
denied it and tried feebly to put it on you.  Then everybody cut me; but
I hoped still all might blow over in time.  But every day it became
harder to bear; I should have had to confess at last, I believe.  Then
came Cripps's final villainy.  He had never destroyed my bill after all,
but now calmly claimed the whole amount
The scoundrel
I had no receipts to show what I had paid, and of course was at his
mercy.  This last move really drove me half crazy.  I daren't tell any
one about it.  I was too desperate to think of anything but running away
and hiding somewhere.  I had no money.  I came to you with a lie to try
to borrow a pound, so that I might go somewhere by train.  You couldn't
do it, and so I had to walk, and -- and -- oh!  Greenfield, what shall I do?
what will become of me
My dear fellow
we'll go back together, and I can promise you you'll find nothing but
kindness and forgiveness when you get back.  If I wasn't sure of that, I
wouldn't urge you to come.  There!  I wish you could have seen your poor
father's face last night
tomfoolery
cleanseth
us from all sin
Greenfield junior
youngsters
Bully did this
Rick did that
Hullo! what's become of Cripps
Oh! he's gone
Didn't you know
No!  When was that
The very time you and Noll went up to Cambridge.  The magistrates took
away his licence for allowing gambling to go on at his house.  He stuck
on at the lock-house for some time, and then disappeared suddenly.  They
said he was wanted for some bit of swindling or other.  Anyhow, he's
gone
And a very good riddance too
So it is
By the way, Noll, what's the last news of
Loman
Oh, I meant to tell you.  He's coming home; I had a letter from him a
week or two ago.  He says the four or five years' farming and knocking
about in Australia have pulled him together quite; you know how ill he
was when he went out
So he was
He's coming home to be near his father and mother.  He's been reading
law, he says, out in the backwoods, and means to go into his father's
office
I'm glad he's coming home
Poor fellow!  I wonder
when he'll come to this old place again
When he does, I tell you what: we
must all make up a jolly party and come down together and help him
through with it
Well, old man
if it hadn't
been for you, he
Hullo, I say! there's the train coming
Look
alive, you fellows, or we shall be late
</text>
