<text>
It was plain
that God Almighty ruled the world, or
how could things go on with a rogue like Alexander VI. at the head of the
Church, and a mere huntsman like himself at the head of the Empire
craving glory
Chermerci
pondering these things in her heart
bright eyes rain
influence, and judge the prize
Dome Kirk
Three cubits more
Child, hast thou found me fruits
enough for the completing of this border
O yes, mine uncle.  I have the wild rosehip, and the flat shield of the
moonwort, and a pea-pod, and more whose names I know not.  But should
they all be seed and fruit
Yea, truly, my Stina, for this wreath shall speak of the goodly fruits
of a completed life
Even as that which you carved in spring told of the blossom and fair
promise of youth
Methinks the one is the most
beautiful, as it ought to be
I have scarce seed-pods enough in store, uncle; might we not
seek some rarer shapes in the herb-garden of Master Gerhard, the
physician?  He, too, might tell me the names of some of these
True, child; or we might ride into the country beyond the walls, and
seek them.  What, little one, wouldst thou not
So we go not far
Ha, thou hast not forgotten the fright thy companions had from the
Schlangenwald reitern when gathering Maydew?  Fear not, little coward; if
we go beyond the suburbs we will take Hans and Peter with their halberts.
But I believe thy silly little heart can scarce be free for enjoyment if
it can fancy a Reiter within a dozen leagues of thee
At your side I would not fear.  That is, I would not vex thee by my
folly, and I might forget it
My gentle child
Moreover, if our good
Raiser has his way, we shall soon be free of the reitern of
Schlangenwald, and Adlerstein, and all the rest of the mouse-trap barons.
He is hoping to form a league of us free imperial cities with all the
more reasonable and honest nobles, to preserve the peace of the country.
Even now a letter from him was read in the Town Hall to that effect; and,
when all are united against them, my lords-mousers must needs become
pledged to the league, or go down before it
Ah! that will be well
Then will our wagons be no
longer set upon at the Debateable Ford by Schlangenwald or Adlerstein;
and our wares will come safely, and there will be wealth enough to raise
our spire!  O uncle, what a day of joy will that be when Our Lady's great
statue will be set on the summit
A day that I shall scarce see, and it will be well if thou dost
unless the hearts of the burghers of Ulm return to
the liberality of their fathers, who devised that spire!  But what
trampling do I hear
Housefather, O Housefather, there
are a troop of reitern at the door, dismounting already
and, if I
mistake not, one is thy brother
He is welcome
he brought us a choice gift last time he came; and it may be he is ready
to seek peace among us after his wanderings.  Come hither, Christina, my
little one; it is well to be abashed, but thou art not a child who need
fear to meet a father
Welcome, home,
brother Hugh
Your blessing, honoured father
Ha?  What, this is my girl?  What says she?  My blessing, eh?  There
then, thou hast it, child, such as I have to give, though they'll tell
thee at Adlerstein that I am more wont to give the other sort of
blessing!  Now, give me a kiss, girl, and let me see thee!  How now
thou art a mere feather, as slight as
our sick Jungfrau herself
Thou art not half the woman thy mother was--she was stately and
straight as a column, and tall withal
True
but both she and her
poor babe had been so harassed and wasted with long journeys and
hardships, that with all our care of our Christina, she has never been
strong or well-grown.  The marvel is that she lived at all
Our Christina is not beautiful, we know
but she is a good and meek maiden
Well, well
she will answer the purpose well
enough, or better than if she were fair enough to set all our fellows
together by the ears for her.  Camilla, I say--no, what's her name,
Christina?--put up thy gear and be ready to start with me to-morrow
morning for Adlerstein
For Adlerstein
Let us come up to the gallery, and understand what you desire, brother
Fill the cup of greeting, Hans.  Your
followers shall be entertained in the hall
Ay, ay
I will show you reason over a goblet of the old
Rosenburg.  Is it all gone yet, brother Goetz?  No?  I reckon there would
not be the scouring of a glass left of it in a week if it were at
Adlerstein
Just as it was in the old man's time
A handful of Lanzknechts would
make short work with your pots and pans, good sister Johanna
Heaven forbid
Much good they do
you, up in a row there, making you a slave to furbishing them.  There's
more sense in a chair like this--that does rest a man's bones.  Here,
Camilla, girl, unlace my helmet!  What, know'st not how?  What is a woman
made for but to let a soldier free of his trappings?  Thou hast done it!
There!  Now my boots
Hans shall draw off your boots, fair brother
What would you with Christina, brother
And
what is it to you what I do with mine own
Only this, that, having bred her up as my child and intended heiress, I
might have some voice
Oh! in choosing her mate!  Some mincing artificer, I trow, fiddling away
with wood and wire to make gauds for the fair-day!  Hast got him here?
If I like him, and she likes him, I'll bring her back when her work is
done
There is no such person as yet in the case
Christina
is not yet seventeen, and I would take my time to find an honest, pious
burgher, who will value this precious jewel of mine
And let her polish his flagons to the end of her days
What, hast no child of thine own
None, save in Paradise
And
thus, if Christina should remain with me, and be such as I would have
her, then, brother, my wealth, after myself and my good housewife, shall
be hers, with due provision for thee, if thou shouldst weary of thy wild
life.  Otherwise
my poor savings should go to the completion of the Dome Kirk
And who told thee, Goetz, that I would do ought with the girl that
should hinder her from being the very same fat, sourkrout-cooking,
pewter-scrubbing housewife of thy mind's eye
I have heard nothing of thy designs as yet, brother Hugh, save that thou
wouldst take her to Adlerstein, which men greatly belie if it be not a
nest of robbers
Aha! thou hast heard of Adlerstein!  We have made the backs of your
jolly merchants tingle as well as they could through their well-lined
doublets!  Ulm knows of Adlerstein, and the Debateable Ford
It knows little to its credit
and it knows
also that the Emperor is about to make a combination against all the
Swabian robber-holds, and that such as join not in it will fare the
worse
Let Kaiser Fritz catch his bear ere he sells its hide!  He has never
tried to mount the Eagle's Ladder!  Why, man, Adlerstein might be held
against five hundred men by sister Johanna with her rock and spindle!
'Tis a free barony, Master Gottfried, I tell thee--has never sworn
allegiance to Kaiser or Duke of Swabia either!  Freiherr Eberhard is as
much a king on his own rock as Kaiser Fritz ever was of the Romans, and
more too, for I never could find out that they thought much of our king
at Rome; and, as to gainsaying our old Freiherr, one might as well leap
over the abyss at once
Yes, those old free barons are pitiless tyrants
and I
scarce think I can understand thee aright when I hear thee say thou
wouldst carry thy daughter to such an abode
It is the Freiherr's command
Look you, they have had
wondrous ill-luck with their children; the Freiherrinn Kunigunde has had
a dozen at least, and only two are alive, my young Freiherr and my young
Lady Ermentrude; and no wonder, you would say, if you could see the
gracious Freiherrinn, for surely Dame Holda made a blunder when she
fished her out of the fountain woman instead of man.  She is Adlerstein
herself by birth, married her cousin, and is prouder and more dour than
our old Freiherr himself--fitter far to handle shield than swaddled babe.
And now our Jungfrau has fallen into a pining waste, that 'tis a pity to
see how her cheeks have fallen away, and how she mopes and fades.  Now,
the old Freiherr and her brother, they both dote on her, and would do
anything for her.  They thought she was bewitched, so we took old Mother
Ilsebill and tried her with the ordeal of water; but, look you, she sank
as innocent as a puppy dog, and Ursel was at fault to fix on any one
else.  Then one day, when I looked into the chamber, I saw the poor
maiden sitting, with her head hanging down, as if 'twas too heavy for
her, on a high-backed chair, no rest for her feet, and the wind blowing
keen all round her, and nothing to taste but scorched beef, or black
bread and sour wine, and her mother rating her for foolish fancies that
gave trouble.  And, when my young Freiherr was bemoaning himself that we
could not hear of a Jew physician passing our way to catch and bring up
to cure her, I said to him at last that no doctor could do for her what
gentle tendance and nursing would, for what the poor maiden needed was to
be cosseted and laid down softly, and fed with broths and possets, and
all that women know how to do with one another.  A proper scowl and hard
words I got from my gracious Lady, for wanting to put burgher softness
into an Adlerstein; but my old lord and his son opened on the scent at
once.  'Thou hast a daughter?' quoth the Freiherr.  'So please your
gracious lordship,' quoth I; 'that is, if she still lives, for I left her
a puny infant.'  'Well,' said my lord, 'if thou wilt bring her here, and
her care restores my daughter to health and strength, then will I make
thee my body squire, with a right to a fourth part of all the spoil, and
feed for two horses in my stable.'  And young Freiherr Eberhard gave his
word upon it
Take the child back with him into a very nest of robbers!--her
own innocent dove whom they had shielded from all evil like a very nun in
a cloister!  She should as soon think of yielding her up to be borne off
by the great Satan himself with his horns and hoofs
Hugh is her father, housewife
The right of parents is with those that have done the duty of parents
What said the kid in the fable to the goat that
claimed her from the sheep that bred her up?  I am ashamed of you,
housefather, for not better loving your own niece
Heaven knows how I love her
but Heaven also
knows that I see no means of withholding her from one whose claim is
closer than my own--none save one; and to that even thou, housemother,
wouldst not have me resort
What is it
To denounce him to the burgomasters as one of the Adlerstein retainers
who robbed Philipp der Schmidt, and have him fast laid by the heels
Nay, you could not do that, good man, but wherefore not
threaten him therewith?  Stand at his bedside in early dawn, and tell him
that, if he be not off ere daylight with both his cut-throats, the
halberdiers will be upon him
Threaten what I neither could nor would perform, mother?  That were a
shrewish resource
Yet would it save the child
It must be thus
I can bear it better since I
have heard of the poor young lady, sick and with none to care for her.  I
will go with my father; it is my duty.  I will do my best; but oh! uncle,
so work with him that he may bring me back again
This from thee, Stina
from thee who art sick for
fear of a lanzknecht
The saints will be with me, and you will pray for me
I tell thee, child, thou knowst not what these vile dens are.  Heaven
forfend thou shouldst
Go only to Father
Balthazar, housefather, and see if he doth not call it a sending of a
lamb among wolves
Mind'st thou the carving I did for Father Balthazar's own oratory
I talk not of carving!  I talk of our child
_Ut agnus inter lupos_
Alas!  I am not an apostle
Nay, but, in the path of duty, 'tis the same hand that sends thee
forth
and the same will guard thee
Duty, indeed
As if any duty could lead that silly
helpless child among that herd of evil men, and women yet worse, with a
good-for-nothing father, who would sell her for a good horse to the first
dissolute Junker who fell in his way
I will take care that he knows it is worth his while to restore her safe
to us.  Nor do I think so ill of Hugh as thou dost, mother.  And, for the
rest, Heaven and the saints and her own discretion must be her guard till
she shall return to us
How can Heaven be expected to protect her when you are flying in its
face by not taking counsel with Father Balthazar
That shalt thou do
Ho, ho!  Master Goetz
I see
thy game.  Thou wouldst make it worth my while to visit the father-house
at Ulm
It shall be worth thy while, indeed, if thou bringest me back my white
dove
And how if I bring her back with a strapping reiter son-in-law
What welcome should the fellow receive
That would depend on what he might be
Little fear of that.  Our fellows would look for lustier brides
than yon little pale face.  'Tis whiter than ever this morning,--but no
tears.  That is my brave girl
Yes, father, I am ready to do your bidding
That is well, child.  Mark me, no tears.  Thy mother wept day and night,
and, when she had wept out her tears, she was sullen, when I would have
been friendly towards her.  It was the worse for her.  But, so long as
thou art good daughter to me, thou shalt find me good father to thee
Well said, child.  Now canst sit on old Nibelung's croup?  His back-bone
is somewhat sharper than if he had battened in a citizen's stall; but, if
thine aunt can find thee some sort of pillion, I'll promise thee the best
ride thou hast had since we came from Innspruck, ere thou canst
remember
Christina has her own mule
without troubling
Nibelung to carry double
Ho! her own!  An overfed burgomaster sort of a beast, that will turn
restive at the first sight of the Eagle's Ladder!  However, he may carry
her so far, and, if we cannot get him up the mountain, I shall know what
to do with him
And now, my little one, the daughter of my heart, I must bid thee
farewell
The good God bless thee, my child
bless thee, and bring thee back in His own good time.  Thou
hast been a good child to us; be so to thine own father.  Do thy work,
and come back to us again
Not as well as my aunt
Well, do thy best, and thou wilt win favour with the baron
Festhold
Is it a sign that good angels will not let me be hurt
never in bondage to any man
Thou thinkest thyself in the land of the kobolds and dwarfs, my girl!
Never mind, thou wilt see worse than honest Jobst before thou hast done.
Now, eat a morsel and be ready--mountain air will make thee hungry ere
thou art at the castle.  And, hark thee, Jobst, thou must give
stable-room to yon sumpter-mule for the present, and let some of my
daughter's gear lie in the shed
O father
We'll bring it up, child, by piecemeal
as we
can; but if such a freight came to the castle at once, my lady would have
her claws on it, and little more wouldst thou ever see thereof.
Moreover, I shall have enough to do to look after thee up the ascent,
without another of these city-bred beasts
I hope the poor mule will be well cared for.  I can pay for
Jobst will take care of the beast, as belonging to me.  Woe betide him,
if I find it the worse
Look you, Christina
if thou hast any gold about thee,
let it be the last thing thou ownest to any living creature up there
Do not even tell me.  I _will_ not
know
Where is thy steed, father
I sent him up to the castle with the Schneiderlein and Yellow Lorentz
I shall have ado enough on foot with thee before
we are up the Ladder
Thou find'st it out, child?  Ay, 'tis worth all the feather-beds and
pouncet-boxes in Ulm; is it not?  That accursed Italian fever never left
me till I came up here.  A man can scarce draw breath in your foggy
meadows below there.  Now then, here is the view open.  What think you of
the Eagle's Nest
And this is Schloss Adlerstein
That is Schloss Adlerstein; and there shalt thou be in two hours' time,
unless the devil be more than usually busy, or thou mak'st a fool of
thyself.  If so, not Satan himself could save thee
Because
we are not eagles outright.  Seest thou not, just
beyond the castle court, this whole crag of ours breaks off short, falls
like the town wall straight down into the plain?  Even this cleft that we
are crossing by, the only road a horse can pass, breaks off short and
sudden too, so that the river is obliged to take leaps which nought else
but a chamois could compass.  A footpath there is, and Freiherr Eberhard
takes it at all times, being born to it; but even I am too stiff for the
like.  Ha! ha!  Thy uncle may talk of the Kaiser and his League, but he
would change his note if we had him here
Yet castles have been taken by hunger
What, knowest thou so much?--True!  But look you
yonder beck dashes
through the castle court, and it never dries; and see you the ledge the
castle stands on?  It winds on out of your sight, and forms a path which
leads to the village of Adlerstein, out on the other slope of the
mountains; and ill were it for the serfs if they victualled not the
castle well
What, Sorel, hast brought her!
Trudchen is wearying for her
City
bred--ho, ho
Thanks, sir
So that's the wench you have taken all this trouble for
She looks like another sick baby to
nurse; but I'll have no trouble about her;--that is all.  Take her up to
Ermentrude; and thou, girl, have a care thou dost her will, and puttest
none of thy city fancies into her head
And hark thee, girl
So thou
canst nurse her well, thou shalt have a new gown and a stout husband
That way
Thou saidst she was come, Ebbo
Yes, even so
but she is slow and
town-bred.  She was afraid of crossing the moat
Here she is
now will she
make thee quite well
Here is my sisterling
They say
you burgher women have ways of healing the sick.  Look at her.  Think you
you can heal her
What, wilt not look at her
Canst thou
cure her, maiden
I am no doctor, sir
but I could, at least, make
her more comfortable.  The stone is too hard for her
I will not go away; I want the fire
That is good
Is that what you burgher-women wear?  Father is to give
me a furred mantle, if only some court dame would pass the Debateable
Ford.  But the Schlangenwaldern got the last before ever we could get
down.  Jobst was so stupid.  He did not give us warning in time; but he
is to be hanged next time if he does not
Never mind,
Trudchen
meantime I have kept all the
wild catskins for thee, and may be this--this--_she_ could sew them up into
a mantle for thee
O let me see
Not now
there will be jangling and jingling enough
by and by--meat now
I was only looking forth from the window, lady
Ah! thou saw'st no travellers at the Ford
No, lady; I was gazing at the far distance.  Know you if it be indeed
Ulm that we see from these windows
Ulm?  That is where thou comest from
My happy home, with my dear uncle and aunt!  O, if I can but see it
hence, it will be joy
I do not know.  Let me see
Ah! if the steeple of the Dome Kirk were but finished, I could not
mistake it
How beauteous the white spire will look
from hence
Dome Kirk
what is that
She was too young and too delicate to reject civilization, and
 she let Christina braid her hair, bathe her, and arrange her dress, with
      sensations of comfort that were almost like health
Sunday didna
come abune the pass
After all there was little for us
It was only a wain of
wine barrels; and now will the drunkards down stairs make good cheer.
But Ebbo could only win for me this gold chain and medal which was round
the old merchant's neck
Was he slain
I only know I did not kill him
I had him down and
got the prize, and that was enough for me.  What the rest of the fellows
may have done, I cannot say
But he has brought thee something, Stina
Show
it to her, brother
My father sends you this for your care of my sister
Thanks, sir; but, indeed, I may not take it
So
They are no
townsfolk of yours, but Constance cowards
Take it, take it, Stina, or you will anger my father
No, lady, I thank the barons both, but it were sin in me
Look you
we have the full right--'tis a seignorial
right--to all the goods of every wayfarer that may be overthrown in our
river--as I am a true knight
A true knight
The true knight's part is to aid, not rob, the weak
Christina
know you what you have said?--that Eberhard is no true knight
I cannot help it, Lady Ermentrude
You may drive me from the castle--I only
long to be away from it; but I cannot stain my soul by saying that spoil
and rapine are the deeds of a true knight
My mother will beat you
Tush, Trudchen; keep thy tongue still, child!  What does it hurt me
Stina, Stina, don't cry; I will not tell my mother!  Come out, and
finish my kerchief!  Come out!  No one shall beat you
That is not what I wept for, lady
I do not think you
would bring harm on me.  But oh!  I would I were at home!  I grieve for
the bloodshed that I must see and may not hinder, and for that poor
merchant
Oh
you need not fear for him!  I saw his own folk
return and lift him up.  But what is he to thee or to us
I am a burgher maid, lady
Maiden, I trow thou wilt not taste
What's this
Is't a
fast-day
No matter
'Tis only her loss
Sir Eberhard, your sister is ill--you are
in no state to be here.  Go down at once, nor insult a free maiden
But since that time
my young lord has never
brought home a prisoner
Some
day wilt thou be another Good Freiherr Eberhard, whom all the
country-side loved, and who gave bread at the castle-gate to all that
hungered
Like an army defeated,
    The snow had retreated
Come with me
Who needs me
Follow him not, father
It is the young
Freiherr.--Oh have mercy on him, gracious sir; he has done your noble
lordships no wrong
I mean him no ill
I would but have him do his office.  Art thou afraid,
priest
Who needs my office
Show me fit cause, and
what should I dread?  Wherefore dost thou seek me
For my sister
My
little sister lies at the point of death, and I have sworn to her that a
priest she shall have.  Wilt thou come, or shall I drag thee down the
pass
I come, I come with all my heart, sir knight
A few moments and I am at your bidding
Good father, escape!
There will be full time ere he misses you.  The north door leads to the
Gemsbock's Pass; it is open now
Why should I baulk him?  Why should I deny my office to the dying
Alas! holy father, thou art new to this country, and know'st not these
men of blood!  It is a snare to make the convent ransom thee, if not
worse.  The Freiherrinn is a fiend for malice, and the Freiherr is
excommunicate
I know it, my son
but wherefore should their child
perish unassoilzied
Art coming, priest
carry his gear for him
You will have work enow for both hands ere the castle is reached
The Blessed Friedmund!  He is come for her
Come away, Herr Vater
he is
going to hear her confession, and make her too holy for the like of us to
touch
Father, father, pardon me; I would have been a better daughter if I had
only known
And oh! father, one day wilt thou seek to be absolved
Thou hast it, child, if it will ease thy
mind; but it is all along of these new fancies that ever an Adlerstein
thought of pardon.  There, there, I blame thee not, poor maid; it thou
wert to die, it may be even best as it is.  Now must I to thy father; he
is troubled enough about this gear
Not far, not far!  Oh! let them
let them not be quite out of sight
Out of hearing is all that is needed, daughter
It was the Blessed Friedmund
Never
hath he so greeted one of our race since the pious Freiherrinn
Hildegarde.  Maiden, hast thou brought us back a blessing
Ah! well may she be blessed--well may the saints stoop to greet her
Maiden
thou hast done a great and blessed work, such
as many a priest might envy thee
Depart, O Christian soul
Come after me; be the Good Baron Ebbo
What would you, my lord
What would I?  A little peace, and heed to her who is gone.  To see my
father and mother one would think that a partridge had but flown away.  I
have seen my father more sorrowful when his dog had fallen over the
abyss
Mayhap there is more sorrow for a brute that cannot live again
Our bird has her nest by an Altar that is lovelier and
brighter than even our Dome Kirk will ever be
Sit down, Christina
My
heart is sore, and I cannot bear the din below.  Tell me where my bird is
flown
Ah! sir; pardon me.  I must to the kitchen
Must?  And wherefore?  Thou hast nought to do there; speak truth!  Why
not stay with me
A burgher maid may not sit down with a noble baron
The devil!  Has my mother been plaguing thee, child
No, my lord
she reeks not of me; but
it behoves me the more to be discreet
And you would not have me come here
I have no power to forbid you; but if you do, I must betake me to Ursel
in the kitchen
Among the rude wenches there
Nay, nay, that
shall not be!  Rather will I go
But this is very cruel of thee, maiden
when I
give thee my knightly word that all should be as when she whom we both
loved was here
It could not so be, my lord
it would not be maidenly in me.  Oh, my lord, you are kind and
generous, make it not hard for me to do what other maidens less lonely
have friends to do for them
Kind and generous
This from you, who told me once I was
no true knight
I shall call you a true knight with all my heart
if you will respect my weakness and
loneliness
And how am I ever to be what the happy one bade me, if
you will not show me how
My error would never show you the right
Take them, Christina
they are very like yourself
Christina, if I bring your father with me, will you not let me
in
Entreat me not, my lord
Ah!  Why, what now?  What, is the young Baron after thee?  Ha! ha!
petticoats are few enough up here, but he must have been ill off ere he
took to a little ghost like thee!  I saw he was moping and doleful, but I
thought it was all for his sister
And so it is, father
Tell me that, when he watches every turn of that dark eye of thine--the
only good thing thou took'st of mine!  Thou art a witch, Stina
Hush, oh hush, for pity's sake, father, and let me go home
What, thou likest him not?  Thy mind is all for the mincing goldsmith
opposite, as I ever told thee
My mind is--is to return to my uncle and aunt the true-hearted maiden
they parted with
And oh, father,
as you were the son of a true and faithful mother, be a father to me now!
Jeer not your motherless child, but protect her and help her
Wilt have one, child?  Five hundred years is no bad
bargain
My uncle has small trust in indulgences
All lies, of course
yet they've the Pope's seal, and I
have more than half a mind to get one.  Five hundred years is no joke,
and I am sure of purgatory, since I bought this medal at the Holy House
of Loretto
Oh,
where is my father
I have sent him to the toll at the Gemsbock's Pass
There, little one
now
shalt thou never again shut me out
Sir
this is no place to
delude a poor maiden
I delude thee not.  The brother here waits to wed us
Impossible!  A burgher maid is not for such as you
None but a burgher maid will I wed
See, Christina, thou art
sweeter and better than any lady in the land; thou canst make me what
she--the blessed one who lies there--would have me.  I love thee as never
knight loved lady.  I love thee so that I have not spoken a word to
offend thee when my heart was bursting; and
I think thou lovest me a little
Ah
let me go
Thou canst not go home; there is none here fit to take charge of thee.
Or if there were, I would slay him rather than let thee go.  No, not so
but without
thee I were a mad and desperate man.  Christina, I will not answer for
myself if thou dost not leave this place my wedded wife
Oh
if you would only betroth me, and woo me like
an honourable maiden from my home at Ulm
Betroth thee, ay, and wed thee at once
I am not going to miss my opportunity, or baulk the friar
This maiden looks convent-bred!  Herr Reiter, pardon me; but if this be
the breaking of a cloister, I can have none of it
No such thing
she is town-bred, that is all
You would swear to it, on the holy mass yonder, both of you
Yea
and so dost thou, Christina
I am no cloister maid, holy father,
but
Oh, then, all is well!
Take thy place, pretty one, there, by the door, thou know'st it should be
in the porch, but--ach, I understand
No, no, little one, I have no time for bride scruples and
coyness; I have to train three dull-headed louts to be Shem, Ham, and
Japhet before dark.  Hast confessed of late
This morning
Well, my son, which of his
flock am I to report to your Pfarrer as linked together
The less your tongue wags on that matter till I call on you, the
better
Look you, no ill shall befall you if you
are wise, but remember, against the day I call you to bear witness, that
you have this day wedded Baron Eberhard von Adlerstein the younger, to
Christina, the daughter of Hugh Sorel, the Esquire of Ulm
Thou hast played me a trick, Sir Baron
I would have had no such gear as this
So I supposed
Young folks! young folks
the little bird so cunningly nestled in the
church to fly out my Lady Baroness!  Well, so thou hast a pretty, timid
lambkin there, Sir Baron.  Take care you use her mildly
Not for the poor friar himself
it all goes to the weal of the brotherhood
As you please
Silence, that is all!  And thy
friary
The poor house of St. Francis at Offingen for the present, noble sir
There will you hear of me, if you find me not.  And
now, fare thee well, my gracious lady.  I hope one day thou wilt have
more words to thank the poor brother who has made thee a noble Baroness
Ah, good father, pardon my fright and confusion
The Needfire alight already
So, master hermit
that's your hermit's abstraction, is it?  No whining, old man, I am not
going to hurt thee, so thou canst hold thy tongue.  Otherwise I will
smoke thee out of thy hole like a wild cat!  What, thou aiding me with my
belt, my lovely one?  Thanks; the snap goes too hard for thy little
hands.  Now, then, the fire will light us gaily down the mountain side
O do
not let him do it
Wait
for me here
The gracious lordship is wrong
Heaven forfend
that evil befall him and that mare in the course of the year
Alas! then
you would have this secret
Unless I would have to seek thee down the oubliette, my little one
or, what might even be worse, see thee burnt on the
hillside for bewitching me with thine arts!  No, indeed, my darling.
Were it only my father, I could make him love thee; but my mother--I could
not trust her where she thought the honour of our house concerned.  It
shall not be for long.  Thou know'st we are to make peace with the
Kaiser, and then will I get me employment among Kurfurst Albrecht's
companies of troops, and then shalt thou prank it as my Lady Freiherrinn,
and teach me the ways of cities
Alas!  I fear me it has been a great sin
For thee--thou couldst not help it
for me--who knows how
many deadly ones it may hinder?  Cheer up, little one; no one can harm
thee while the secret is kept
_Fulgebunt
justi et tanquam scintillae in arundinete discurrent_
There is the
Schneiderlein riding up the Eagle's Ladder upon Freiherr Ebbo's white
mare
Ah! no good could come of not leading that
mare through the Johannisfeuer
This shameful expedition!  Only harm could befall.  This is thy doing,
thou mincing city-girl
All was certain to go wrong when a pale mist widow came into the place
A pale, mist
widow
Ill news, gracious lady.  We have been set upon by the
accursed Schlangenwaldern, and I am the only living man left
Ah,
she is coming round.  Look up, sweet lady, and fear not.  You are our
gracious Lady Baroness
Is he here?  O, has he said so?  O, let me see him--Sir Eberhard
Ah, no, no
but see here
There,
you can hold up your head with the best of them; he took care of that--my
dear young Freiherr, the boy that I nursed
Oh, tell me
was it indeed so?  O
say it was not as he said
Ah, woe's me, woe's me, that it was even so
but oh,
be still, look not so wild, dear lady.  The dear, true-hearted young
lord, he spent his last breath in owning you for his true lady, and in
bidding us cherish you and our young baron that is to be.  And the
gracious lady below--she owns you; there is no fear of her now; so vex not
yourself, dearest, most gracious lady
Oh, let me see the Schneiderlein
Tell the Schneiderlein that
the gracious Lady Baroness desires his presence
He cannot come; he is quite spent, and he will let no one
touch his arm till Ursel can come, not even to get off his doublet
I will go to him
Here she is
Thanks, thanks, gracious lady!
This is the Lady Baroness for me!  My young lord was the only wise man!
Thanks, lady; now am I my own man again.  It had been long ere the old
Freiherrinn had done so much for me!  I am your man, lady, for life or
death
Nay
prithee do not; thou must
rest.  Only if--if thou canst only tell me if he, my own dear lord, sent
me any greeting, I would wait to hear the rest till thou hast slept
Ah! the dog of Schlangenwald
You see, lady, we had ridden merrily as far as Jacob Muller's
hostel, the traitor
Go home; tell my mother--all the world--that Christina Sorel is my wife,
wedded on the Friedmund Wake by Friar Peter of Offingen, and if she
should bear a child, he is my true and lawful heir.  My sword for him--my
love to her.  And if my mother would not be haunted by me, let her take
care of her
he fell back as I tried to
hold him up, and I saw that it was all at an end, and a kind and friendly
master and lord gone from me.  I laid him down, and put his cross on his
breast that I had seen him kissing many a time that evening; and I
crossed his hands, and wiped the blood from them and his face.  And,
lady, he had put on his ring; I trust the robber caitiff's may have left
it to him in his grave.  And so I came forth, walking soft, and opening
the door in no small dread, not of the snoring swine, but of the dogs
without.  But happily they were still, and even by the door I saw all our
poor fellows stark and stiff
My father
Ay! with his head cleft open by the Graf himself.  He died like a true
soldier, lady, and we have lost the best head among us in him.  Well, the
knave that should have watched the horses was as drunken as the rest of
them, and I made a shift to put the bridle on the white mare and ride
off
Your pardon, lady
Pardon
thou
hast naught to fear, girl.  As things stand, thou canst not have thy
deserts.  Dost hear
Ah, lady, it was not such pardon that I meant.  If you would let me be a
daughter to you
A daughter!  A wood-carver's girl to be a daughter of Adlerstein
Come here, wench
So
since better may not be, we must own thee for
the nonce.  Hark ye all, this is the Frau Freiherrinn, Freiherr
Eberhard's widow, to be honoured as such
There, girl, thou hast what thou didst strive for.  Is not that enough
Alas! lady
I would fain
have striven to be a comforter, or to weep together
What! to bewitch me as thou didst my poor son and daughter, and
well-nigh my lord himself!  Girl!  Girl!  Thou know'st I cannot burn thee
now; but away with thee; try not my patience too far
Gracious lady, we must begone.  Your mule is ready.  There is a
party at the Debateable Ford, whether Schlangenwald or Wildschloss we
know not yet, but either way you must be the first thing placed in
safety
I am Kasimir von Adlerstein Wildschloss
I have
hitherto been hindered by stress of weather from coming to take
possession of my inheritance.  Admit me, that I may arrange with the
widowed Frau Freiherrinn as to her dower and residence
The widowed Frau Freiherrinn, born of Adlerstein
thanks the Freiherr von Adlerstein Wildschloss; but she holds the castle
as guardian to the present head of the family, the Freiherr von
Adlerstein
It is false, old man
the Freiherr had no
other son
No
but Freiherr Eberhard hath left us twin heirs, our
young lords, for whom we hold this castle
This trifling will not serve
Eberhard von
Adlerstein died unmarried
Not so
our gracious Frau Freiherrinn, the younger,
was wedded to him at the last Friedmund Wake, by the special blessing of
our good patron, who would not see our house extinct
I must see thy lady, old man
Lady
I regret to disturb and intrude on a mourning family,
but I am much amazed at the tidings I have heard; and I must pray of you
to confirm them
I thought they would confound you
And pardon me, lady, but the Diet is very nice in requiring full proofs.
I would be glad to learn what lady was chosen by my deceased cousin
Eberhard
The lady is Christina, daughter of his esquire, Hugh Sorel, of an
honourable family at Ulm
Ha!  I know who and what Sorel was
Lady
cousin, thou wouldst not stain the shield of Adlerstein with owning aught
that cannot bear the examination of the Diet
Sir Kasimir
had I known the truth ere my
son's death, I had strangled the girl with mine own hands!  But I learnt
it only by his dying confession; and, had she been a beggar's child, she
was his wedded wife, and her babes are his lawful heirs
Knowest thou time--place--witnesses
The time, the Friedmund Wake; the place, the Friedmund Chapel
Come hither, Schneiderlein.  Tell the knight thy young
lord's confession
I must see the Frau herself
The Baroness tells me, that you, noble sir, would learn who wedded me to
my dear and blessed lord, Sir Eberhard.  It was Friar Peter of the
Franciscan brotherhood of Offingen, an agent for selling indulgences.
Two of his lay brethren were present.  My dear lord gave his own name and
mine in full after the holy rite; the friar promising his testimony if it
were needed.  He is to be found, or at least heard of, at his own
cloister; and the hermit at the chapel likewise beheld a part of the
ceremony
Enough, enough, lady
forgive me for having
forced the question upon you
Nay
it is but just and
due to us all
I would have all
inquiries made in full
They shall be made, lady, as will be needful for the establishment of
your son's right as a free Baron of the empire, but not with any doubt on
my part, or desire to controvert that right.  I am fully convinced, and
only wish to serve you and my little cousins.  Which of them is the head
of our family
Lady cousin
I am satisfied.  I
own this babe as the true Freiherr von Adlerstein, and far be it from me
to trouble his heritage.  Rather point out the way in which I may serve
you and him.  Shall I represent all to the Emperor, and obtain his
wardship, so as to be able to protect you from any attacks by the enemies
of the house
Thanks, sir
The right line of Adlerstein can take care
of itself without greedy guardians appointed by usurpers.  Our submission
has never been made, and the Emperor cannot dispose of our wardship
Thanks, noble sir, thanks
Let me at least win a friendly right in my young cousins
They are not baptized?
Let me become their godfather
It may be that you will have
more cause than the lady grandmother thinks to remember your offer of
protection to my poor orphans.  Their father and grandfather were, in
very deed, on their way to make submission
That is well known to me
Lady, I will do all in my
power for you.  The Emperor shall hear the state of things; and, while no
violence is offered to travellers
I doubt
not he will wait for full submission till this young Baron be of age to
tender it
We are scarce in force to offer violence
I
have no power to withstand the Lady Baroness.  I am like a stranger here;
but, oh! sir, if the Emperor and Diet will be patient and forbearing with
this desolate house, my babes, if they live, shall strive to requite
their mercy by loyalty.  And the blessing of the widow and fatherless
will fall on you, most generous knight
I would I could do more for you
Ask, and all I can
do is at your service
Ah, sir
there is one most
inestimable service you could render me--to let my uncle, Master
Gottfried, the wood-carver of Ulm, know where I am, and of my state, and
of my children
Yes
There was my home, there was I brought up by my dear
uncle and aunt, till my father bore me away to attend on the young lady
here.  It is eighteen months since they had any tidings from her who was
as a daughter to them
I will see them myself
I know the name.  Carved not
Master Gottfried the stall-work at Augsburg
Yes, indeed!  In chestnut leaves!  And the Misereres all with fairy
tales
Oh, sir, thanks indeed!  Bear to the dear,
dear uncle and aunt their child's duteous greetings, and tell them she
loves them with all her heart, and prays them to forgive her, and to pray
for her and her little ones!  And
my uncle may not have
learnt how his brother, my father, died by his lord's side.  Oh! pray
him, if ever he loved his little Christina, to have masses sung for my
father and my own dear lord
Lady,
the Schneiderlein sends you word that Matz has called him to help in
removing the props of the door you wot of when _he_ yonder steps across
it.  He would know if it be your will
The oubliette
My
best thanks to good Heinz.  Say to him that I forbid it.  If he loves the
life of his master's children, he will abstain!  Tell him so.  My
blessings on him if this knight leave the castle safe, Ursel
Oubliette
Gottfried
No son of Adlerstein shall bear abase craftsman's
name.  Call him Racher (the avenger
The lady mother loves not the sound
Lady, have you any other wish?  Then will I call him
Friedmund
One more favour, Sir Knight
I beg of you to take my two babes
down--yes, both, both, in your own arms, and show them to your men, owning
them as your kinsmen and godsons
Take them, take them, you know not how
much depends on it
Safe! safe out at the gate, and down the hillside, and my old lady ready
to gnaw off her hands for spite
if he did he should meet his
deserts
The toll!  It is for the Lady Baroness
You are my Lady Baroness.  I levy toll for this my young lord
Take it to her, good Heinz, she must have the charge, and needless
strife I will not breed
How now, knave Schneiderlein!
Come down with the toll instantly.  It shall not be tampered with!  Down,
I say, thou thief of a tailor
Go; prithee go, vex her not
Coming, lady
honour-worthy Lady
Baroness and love-worthy niece
for surely, thou poor child, thou must have suffered much, and, if
thou wiliest still to write to thy city kin, thine aunt would rejoice to
hear that thou and thy babes were in good health
Ebbo
Friedel
rained influence and judged the prize
He would bite me! the evil beast
Come with me, Ebbo
He shall suffer for it, the spiteful, ungrateful brute!  Let me alone,
mother
What now
Who is
thwarting the Baron
She; she will not let me deal with yonder savage whelp
She!  Take thy way, child
Visit him well for his
malice.  None shall withstand thee here.  At thy peril
What, art not content to have brought base
mechanical blood into a noble house?  Wouldst make slaves and cowards of
its sons
I would teach them true courage, not cruelty
What should such as thou know of courage?  Look here, girl: another word
to daunt the spirit of my grandsons, and I'll have thee scourged down the
mountain-side!  On!  At him, Ebbo!  That's my gallant young knight!  Out
of the way, girl, with thy whining looks!  What, Friedel, be a man, and
aid thy brother!  Has she made thee a puling woman already
Fie, poor little coward
never heed him, Ebbo,
my brave Baron
Oh, mother, the poor little
wolf!  Oh, mother, are you weeping too?  The grandmother should not so
speak to the sweetest, dearest motherling
Alas, Friedel, that Ebbo should learn that it is brave to hurt the
weak
It is not like Walther of Vogelwiede
Nor like any true Christian knight.  Alas, my poor boys, must you be
taught foul cruelty and I too weak and cowardly to save you
That never will be
Hark! what a howl was that
Listen not, dear child; it does but pain thee
But Ebbo is not shouting.  Oh, mother, he is vexed--he is hurt
The wolf! the poor
wolf
As if I would cry in that way for a bite
Go, grandame; you made me do it, the poor beast
Ulrich shall get thee another cub, my child
No, no; I never will have another cub!  Why did you let me kill it
For shame, Ebbo!  Weep for a spiteful brute!  That's no better than thy
mother or Friedel
I love my mother!  I love Friedel!  They would have withheld me.  Go,
go; I hate you
Peace, peace, Ebbo
you know not what you say.
Ask your grandmother's pardon
Peace, thou fool
The Baron speaks as he will
in his own castle.  He is not to be checked here, and thwarted there, and
taught to mince his words like a cap-in-hand pedlar.  Pardon!  When did
an Adlerstein seek pardon?  Come with me, my Baron; I have still some
honey-cakes
Not I
honey-cakes will not cure the wolf whelp.  Go: I
want my mother and Friedel
IT fell about the Lammas tide,
    When moor men win their hay
as if
winter kept in his service all the
jewel-forging dwarfs of the motherling's tales
Ah! good grandame
his father died with ours
The more honour for him!  The more he is bound to work for us.  Off,
junker, make no loiterers
Foolish lad not to have come to me
Where is
he?  I'll send him at once
Ah, then, the gracious lady has not heard of our luck.
Excellent booty, and two prisoners!  The young Baron has been a hero
indeed, and has won himself a knightly steed
Ach! did not the
young Baron spring like a young gemsbock?  And in midstream down came
their pack-horses and their wares!  Some of them took to flight, but,
pfui, there were enough for my young lord to show his mettle upon.  Such
a prize the saints have not sent since the old Baron's time
Mother
have you heard?  I have a horse!
a spirited bay, a knightly charger, and Friedel is to ride him by turns
with me.  Where is Friedel?  And, mother, Heinz said I struck as good a
stroke as any of them, and I have a sword for Friedel now.  Why does he
not come?  And, motherling, this is for you, a gown of velvet, a real
black velvet, that will make you fairer than our Lady at the Convent.
Come to the window and see it, mother dear
Don't you like the velvet
We always said that, the
first prize we won, the motherling should wear velvet.  Do but look at
it
Woe is me, my Ebbo
It was in the river, mother, the horses fell; it is our right
Fairly, Ebbo
Nay, mother, if Jobst _did_ hide a branch in midstream, it was no doing
of mine; and the horses fell.  The Schlangenwaldern don't even wait to
let them fall.  We cannot live, if we are to be so nice and dainty
Ah! my son, I thought not to hear you call mercy and honesty mere
niceness
What do I hear
Are you chiding and daunting this boy, as you have done with the other
My mother may speak to me
And quench thy spirit with whining fooleries!  Take the Baron's bounty,
woman, and vex him not after his first knightly exploit
Heaven knows, and Ebbo knows
that, were
it a knightly exploit, I were the first to exult
Thou! thou craftsman's girl! dost presume to call in question the
knightly deeds of a noble house!  There
Now! dare to be insolent again
Be still, grandame
No, mother, I am not hurting her
Retainers all, know that, as I am your lord and master, so is my
honoured mother lady of the castle, and she is never to be gainsay'ed,
let her say or do what she will
You are right, Herr Freiherr
The Frau Christina is our
gracious and beloved dame.  Long live the Freiherrinn Christina
And hear you all
she shall rule all, and never be
trampled on more.  Grandame, you understand
Friedel!  Was not he with thee
No; I never saw him
O
Ebbo, how can I let you go?  It is dark, and the crags are so perilous
Mother, I cannot stay
Friedel said it would be a treacherous attack, and
I called him a craven.  Oh, mother, we never parted thus before!  He went
up the hillside.  Oh, where is he
Let me
go, mother.  None know his haunts as I do
Hark
Towards the Red Eyrie
He will have been to the Ptarmigan's Pool
Depend upon it
that he has got up amongst
those rocks where the dead chamois rolled down last summer
Fear not, lady,
those are not the jodeln of one who has met with a hurt.  Baron Friedel
has the sense to be patient rather than risk his bones if he cannot move
safely in the dark
Up after him
Yonder lies the tarn
Don't stir.
This way lies the cliff.  Fried-mund
Here!--this way!  Under the Red Eyrie
I am here!  I am
safe; only it grew so dark that I durst not climb up or down
The mother!--and here
Oh, Friedel, where have you been?  What is this in your arms
Whence is it, Friedel
I was lying on my back by the tarn, when
my lady eagle came sailing overhead, so low that I could see this poor
little thing, and hear it bleat
Thou hast been to the Eyrie--the inaccessible Eyrie
That's a mistake.  It is not hard after the first
I
only waited to watch the old birds out again
Robbed the eagles!  And the young ones
Well
they were twin eaglets, and
their mother had left them, and I felt as though I could not harm them;
so I only bore off their provisions, and stuck some feathers in my cap.
But by that time the sun was down, and soon I could not see my footing;
and, when I found that I had missed the path, I thought I had best nestle
in the nook where I was, and wait for day.  I grieved for my mother's
fear; but oh, to see her here
Ah, Friedel! didst do it to prove my words false
What words
Thou knowest.  Make me not speak them again
Oh, those
No, verily; they
were but a moment's anger.  I wanted to save the kid.  I think it is old
mother Rika's white kid.  But oh, motherling!  I grieve to have thus
frightened you
I think I shall be a priest, Ebbo
Pfui
FRIEDEL, wake
Is it day
Surely the sun is not up
We must be before the sun
Hush, and come!  Do not wake the mother.  It must be ere
she or aught else be astir!  Thy prayers--I tell thee this is a work as
good as prayer
Stand thou still there, and pray the saints to keep her asleep
Sir, you have been brought here by a mistake in the absence of my
mother, the lady of the castle.  If you will follow me, I will restore
all that is within my reach, and put you on your way
Take all that can be carried
Here is your sword, and your purse
I will bring out your horse and
lead you to the pass
Give him food
No!  _Dormit in lecto_
What a poor coxcomb of a knight
But ah, _signorini miei_, I am an _infelice infelicissimo_, ever
persecuted by _le Fate_
By whom?  A count like Schlangenwald
_Das Schicksal_
Three long miserable years did I spend as a captive among the Moors,
having lost all, my ships and all I had, and being forced to row their
galleys, _gli scomunicati_
Galleys
there are some pictured in our _World History
before Carthage_.  Would that I could see one
The _signorino_ would soon have seen his fill, were he between the
decks, chained to the bench for weeks together, without ceasing to row
for twenty-four hours together, with a renegade standing over to lash us,
or to put a morsel into our mouths if we were fainting
The dogs!  Do they thus use Christian men
_Si_, _si--ja wohl_.  There were a good fourscore of us, and among them a
Tedesco, a good man and true, from whom I learnt _la lingua loro_
Our tongue!--from whom
A Tedesco, a fellow-countryman of _sue eccellenze_
_Deutscher_
our Germans so
treated by the pagan villains
Yea, truly, _signorini miei_.  This fellow-captive of mine was a
_cavaliere_ in his own land, but he had been betrayed and sold by his
enemies, and he mourned piteously for _la sposa sua_--his bride, as they
say here.  A goodly man and a tall, piteously cramped in the narrow deck,
I grieved to leave him there when the good _confraternita_ at Genoa paid
my ransom.  Having learnt to speak _il Tedesco_, and being no longer able
to fit out a vessel, I made my venture beyond the Alps; but, alas! till
this moment fortune has still been adverse.  My mules died of the toil of
crossing the mountains; and, when with reduced baggage I came to the
river beneath there--when my horses fell and my servants fled, and the
peasants came down with their hayforks--I thought myself in hands no
better than those of the Moors themselves
It was wrongly done
I have indeed a right to what may be stranded on the bank,
but never more shall foul means be employed for the overthrow
There
will they give you
harbourage, food, a guide, and a beast to carry the rest of your goods.
We are now upon convent land, and none will dare to touch your bales; so
I will unload old Schimmel
Ah, _signorino_, if I might offer any token of gratitude
Nay
make me not a spoiler
If the _signorini_ should ever come to Genoa
and would honour Gian Battista dei Battiste with a call, his whole house
would be at their feet
Thanks; I would that we could see strange lands
But come,
Friedel, the sun is high, and I locked them all into the castle to make
matters safe
May the liberated captive know the name of his deliverers, that he may
commend it to the saints
I am Eberhard, Freiherr von Adlerstein, and this is Freiherr Friedmund,
my brother.  Farewell, sir
Strange
strange how like one barbarous name is to another.  Eberardo!
That was what we called _il Tedesco_, and, when he once told me his
family name, it ended in _stino_; but all these foreign names sound
alike.  Let us speed on, lest these accursed peasants should wake, and be
beyond the control of the _signorino_
Ah
small use in being a baron if one is to be no better
mounted
Thou art glad to have let that fair creature go free, though
Nay, my mother's eyes would let me have no rest in keeping him.
Otherwise--Talk not to me of gladness, Friedel!  Thou shouldst know
better.  How is one to be a knight with nothing to ride but a beast old
enough to be his grandmother
Knighthood of the heart may be content to go afoot
Oh,
Ebbo, what a brother thou art!  How happy the mother will be
Pfui, Friedel; what boots heart without spur?  I am sick of being mewed
up here within these walls of rock!  No sport, not even with falling on a
traveller.  I am worse off than ever were my forefathers
But how is it?  I cannot understand
What has changed
thy mind
Thou, and the mother, and, more than all, the grandame.  Listen,
Friedel: when thou camest up, in all the whirl of eagerness and glad
preparation, with thy grave face and murmur that Jobst had put forked
stakes in the stream, it was past man's endurance to be baulked of the
fray.  Thou hast forgotten what I said to thee then, good Friedel
Long since.  No doubt I thrust in vexatiously
Not so
and I saw thou hadst reason, for the stakes were
most maliciously planted, with long branches hid by the current; but the
fellows were showing fight, and I could not stay to think then, or I
should have seemed to fear them!  I can tell you we made them run!  But I
never meant the grandmother to put yon poor fellow in the dungeon, and
use him worse than a dog.  I wot that he was my captive, and none of
hers.  And then came the mother; and oh, Friedel, she looked as if I were
slaying her when she saw the spoil; and, ere I had made her see right and
reason, the old lady came swooping down in full malice and spite, and
actually came to blows.  She struck the motherling--struck her on the
face, Friedel
I fear me it has so been before
Never will it be so again
I took the old
hag by the hands, and told her she had ruled long enough!  My father's
wife is as good a lady of the castle as my grandfather's, and I myself am
lord thereof; and, since my Lady Kunigunde chooses to cross me and beat
my mother about this capture, why she has seen the last of it, and may
learn who is master, and who is mistress
Oh, Ebbo!  I would I had seen it!  But was not she outrageous?  Was not
the mother shrinking and ready to give back all her claims at once
Perhaps she would have been, but just then she found thou wast not with
me, and I found thou wast not with her, and we thought of nought else.
But thou must stand by me, Friedel, and help to keep the grandmother in
her place, and the mother in hers
If the mother _will_ be kept
I fear me she will only
plead to be left to the grandame's treatment, as before
Never, Friedel!  I will never see her so used again.  I released this
man solely to show that she is to rule here.--Yes, I know all about
freebooting being a deadly sin, and moreover that it will bring the
League about our ears; and it was a cowardly trick of Jobst to put those
branches in the stream.  Did I not go over it last night till my brain
was dizzy?  But still, it is but living and dying like our fathers, and I
hate tameness or dullness, and it is like a fool to go back from what one
has once begun
No; it is like a brave man, when one has begun wrong
But then I thought of the grandame triumphing over the gentle mother--and
I know the mother wept over her beads half the night.  She _shall_ find
she has had her own way for once this morning
Let me tell thee what I
saw yesterday, Ebbo
So
I liked not to vex my mother by my tidings, so I climbed up to the tarn.
There is something always healing in that spot, is it not so, Ebbo?  When
the grandmother has been raving
it
is like getting up nearer the quiet sky in the stillness there, when the
sky seems to have come down into the deep blue water, and all is so
still, so wondrous still and calm.  I wonder if, when we see the great
Dome Kirk itself, it will give one's spirit wings, as does the gazing up
from the Ptarmigan's Pool
Thou minnesinger, was it the blue sky thou hadst to tell me of
No, brother, it was ere I reached it that I saw this sight.  I had
scaled the peak where grows the stunted rowan, and I sat down to look
down on the other side of the gorge.  It was clear where I sat, but the
ravine was filled with clouds, and upon them
The shape of the blessed Friedmund, thy patron
_Our_ patron
I saw him, a giant form in gown and hood,
traced in grey shadow upon the dazzling white cloud; and oh, Ebbo! he was
struggling with a thinner, darker, wilder shape bearing a club.  He
strove to withhold it; his gestures threatened and warned!  I watched
like one spell-bound, for it was to me as the guardian spirit of our race
striving for thee with the enemy
How did it end
The cloud darkened, and swallowed them; nor should I have known the
issue, if suddenly, on the very cloud where the strife had been, there
had not beamed forth a rainbow--not a common rainbow, Ebbo, but a perfect
ring, a soft-glancing, many-tinted crown of victory.  Then I knew the
saint had won, and that thou wouldst win
I!  What, not thyself--his own namesake
I thought, Ebbo, if the fight went very hard--nay, if for a time the
grandame led thee her way--that belike I might serve thee best by giving
up all, and praying for thee in the hermit's cave, or as a monk
Thou!--thou, my other self!  Aid me by burrowing in a hole like a rat!
What foolery wilt say next?  No, no, Friedel, strike by my side, and I
will strike with thee; pray by my side, and I will pray with thee; but if
thou takest none of the strokes, then will I none of the prayers
Ebbo, thou knowest not what thou sayest
No one knows better!  See, Friedel, wouldst thou have me all that the
old Adlersteinen were, and worse too? then wilt thou leave me and hide
thine head in some priestly cowl.  Maybe thou thinkest to pray my soul
into safety at the last moment as a favour to thine own abundant
sanctity; but I tell thee, Friedel, that's no manly way to salvation.  If
thou follow'st that track, I'll take care to get past the border-line
within which prayer can help
Stay
I said not I meant any such thing--so long as thou
wilt be with me.  My purpose is to be a good man and true, a guard to the
weak, a defence against the Turk, a good lord to my vassals, and, if it
may not be otherwise, I will take my oath to the Kaiser, and keep it.  Is
that enough for thee, Friedel, or wouldst thou see me a monk at once
Oh, Ebbo, this is what we ever planned.  I only dreamed of the other
when--when thou didst seem to be on the other track
Well, what can I do more than turn back?  I'll get absolution on Sunday,
and tell Father Norbert that I will do any penance he pleases; and warn
Jobst that, if he sets any more traps in the river, I will drown him
there next!  Only get this priestly fancy away, Friedel, once and for
ever
Never, never could I think of what would sever us
save--when
Friedmund von Adlerstein, give me thy solemn word that I never again
hear of this freak of turning priest or hermit.  What! art slow to speak?
Thinkest me too bad for thee
No, Ebbo.  Heaven knows thou art stronger, more resolute than I.  I am
more likely to be too bad for thee.  But so long as we can be true,
faithful God-fearing Junkern together, Heaven forbid that we should
part
It is our bond
nought shall part us
Nought but death
For my part
I do not believe
that one of us can live or die without the other.  But, hark! there's an
outcry at the castle!  They have found out that they are locked in!  Ha!
ho! hilloa, Hatto, how like you playing prisoner
Grandame
cease.
Remember my words yestereve
She has stolen the keys!  She has tampered with the servants!  She has
released the prisoner--thy prisoner, Ebbo!  She has cheated us as she did
with Wildschloss!  False burgherinn!  I trow she wanted another suitor!
Bane--pest of Adlerstein
Grandmother
I freed the captive.  I stole the
keys--I and Friedel!  No one else knew my purpose.  He was my captive, and
I released him because he was foully taken.  I have chosen my lot in
life
I will not be a treacherous robber-outlaw, but,
so help me God, a faithful, loyal, godly nobleman
And thou, grandame, peace!  Such reverence shalt thou have as befits my
father's mother; but henceforth mine own lady-mother is the mistress of
this castle, and whoever speaks a rude word to her offends the Freiherr
von Adlerstein
Henceforth mine own lady-mother is the mistress of this
  castle, and whoever speaks a rude word to her offends the Freiherr von
                          Adlerstein
Are we in time, mother
Who is that
It is Ebbo.  It is the Baron
Come in, Ebbo.  She is
somewhat revived
Will she be able to speak to the priest
Priest
No priest for me!  My lord
died unshriven, unassoilzied.  Where he is, there will I be.  Let a
priest approach me at his peril
So must it be
What! art not glad to take wing at last
Take wing, forsooth!  To be guest of a greasy burgher, and call cousin
with him!  Fear not, Friedel; I'll not vex the motherling.  Heaven knows
she has had pain, grief, and subjection enough in her lifetime, and I
would not hinder her visit to her home; but I would she could go alone,
nor make us show our poverty to the swollen city folk, and listen to
their endearments.  I charge thee, Friedel, do as I do; be not too
familiar with them.  Could we but sprain an ankle over the crag
Nay, she would stay to nurse us
besides, thou
art needed for the matter of homage
Look, Friedel
I shall not lightly yield
my freedom to king or Kaiser.  Maybe, there is no help for it; but it
irks me to think that I should be the last Lord of Adlerstein to whom the
title of Freiherr is not a mockery.  Why dost bend thy brow, brother?
What art thinking of
Only a saying in my mother's book, that well-ordered service is true
freedom
And methinks there will be freedom in rushing
at last into the great far-off
Here are we prisoners--to ourselves, if you like--but
prisoners still, pent up in the rocks, seeing no one, hearing scarce an
echo from the knightly or the poet world, nor from all the wonders that
pass.  And the world has a history going on still, like the _Chronicle_.
Oh, Ebbo, think of being in the midst of life, with lance and sword, and
seeing the Kaiser--the Kaiser of the holy Roman Empire
With lance and sword, well and good; but would it were not at the cost
of liberty
Understand, mother, that I will not be pledged to anything.  I
will not bend to the yoke ere I have seen and judged for myself
God
direct thee, my son
What ornament, what glory could any one desire better than two such
sons
Yea, truly, a great city is a
solemn and a glorious sight
Mother, it is all that I dreamt
Freiherrinn von Adlerstein!  Is it she?  Then must I greet my old
playmate
Welcome, gracious lady, welcome to your old city.  What! do you not
remember Lippus Grundt, your poor Valentine
Master Philip Grundt
and how fares it with my good Regina
Excellent well, good lady.  She manages her trade and house as well as
the good man Bartolaus Fleischer himself.  Blithe will she be to show you
her goodly ten, as I shall my eight
and Barbara--you remember Barbara Schmidt, lady
My dear Barbara?--That do I indeed!  Is she your wife
Ay, truly, lady
you
see, you returned not, and the housefathers, they would have it so--and
Barbara is a good housewife
Truly do I rejoice
I have my sons likewise to show her
Ah, on foot
I greet you well, sirs
Two lusty, well-grown Junkern indeed, to whom my Martin
will be proud to show the humours of Ulm.  A fair good night, lady!  You
will find the old folks right cheery
She is come! she is come
My child! my dear child
Art thou
indeed returned
Welcome, fair niece
I am right
glad to greet you here
Dear, dear mother
how have I longed for this moment!
and, above all, to show you my boys!  Herr Uncle, let me present my
sons--my Eberhard, my Friedmund.  O Housemother, are not my twins
well-grown lads
Welcome, fair Junkern
welcome both for your
mother's sake and your own!  These thy sons, my little one
Art sure I neither dream nor see double!  Come to the gallery,
and let me see thee better
All is as if I had left you but yesterday
Uncle, have you pardoned me?  You bade me return when my work was done
I should have known better, child.  Such return is not to be sought on
this side the grave.  Thy work has been more than I then thought of
Ah! and now will you deem it begun--not done
Ah, little one
the
change is all for the better!  Thou art grown a wondrously fair dame.
There will scarce be a lovelier in the Kaiserly train
When she is arrayed as becomes the Frau Freiherrinn
I
long to see our own lady ruffle it in her new gear.  I am glad that the
lofty pointed cap has passed out; the coif becomes my child far better,
and I see our tastes still accord as to fashion
Fashion scarce came above the Debateable Ford
I fear my boys look as if they came out of the _Weltgeschichte_, for I
could only shape their garments after my remembrance of the gallants of
eighteen years ago
Their garments are your own shaping
Spinning and weaving, shaping and sewing
Close woven, even threaded, smooth tinted!  Ah, Stina, thou didst learn
something!  Thou wert not quite spoilt by the housefather's books and
carvings
I cannot tell whose teachings have served me best, or been the most
precious to me
Thou art a good child.  Ah! little one, forgive me; you look so like our
child that I cannot bear in mind that you are the Frau Freiherrinn
Nay, I should deem myself in disgrace with you, did you keep me at a
distance, and not _thou_ me, as your little Stina
It is my young lord there who would not forgive the freedom
Not so
not so, if it makes my mother
happy
The noble Freiherr is, from all I have heard,
too good a son to grudge his mother's duteous love even to burgher
kindred
Truly, sir, my mother has ever taught us to look up to you as her
kindest and best
friend
father
It is true what
Ebbo says!  We have both longed for this day.  Bless us, honoured uncle,
as you have blessed my mother
Truly and heartily, my fair youths
do I pray the good God to bless you, and render you
faithful and loving sons, not only to your mother, but to your
fatherland
I cannot spare him, sir
priest, scholar, minstrel,
artist--all want him
What, Hans of all streets, Ebbo
And guildmaster of none
save as a warrior; the rest only
enough for a gentleman!  For what I am thou must be
Alms! if the fair
dame and knightly Junkern would hear what fate has in store for them
We meddle not with the future, I thank thee
Yet could I tell much, lady
What would some here present give to know that the locks that were
shrouded by the widow's veil ere ever they wore the matron's coif shall
yet return to the coif once more
Push on, Ebbo, mine; heed her not; she is a mere Bohemian
But how knew she your history, mother
That might be easily learnt at our Wake
Frau
Freiherrinn, Junkern, not so fast.  Here is your noble kinsman
Well met, noble dame; I felt certain that I knew you when
I beheld you in the Dome
He was gazing at her all the time
You do me too much honour, Herr
Freiherr
Once seen, never to be forgotten
and truly,
but for the stately height of these my godsons I would not believe how
long since our meeting was
The Junker is like an Englishman
So
thy kinsman might have
proved to thee that it is no derogation of thy lordly dignity.  I have
been patient with thee, but thy pride passes
Sir
it is not that; but you forget what
poor mountaineers we are.  Never did we tread a measure save now and then
with our mother on a winter evening, and we know no more than a chamois
of your intricate measures
Herr Burgomaster
let me commence the dance with your fair
lady niece.  By your testimony
she
can tread a measure.  And, after marking us, you may try your success
with the Rathsherrinn
Is it not beautiful to see the motherling
she sails like a white cloud in a soft wind.  And he stands grand as a
stag at gaze
Like a malapert peacock, say I
didst not see, Friedel,
how he kept his eyes on her in church?  My uncle says the Bohemians are
mere deceivers.  Depend on it the woman had spied his insolent looks when
she made her ribald prediction
See
it will be easy to dance it now.  It is a figure my mother
once tried to teach us.  I remember it now
Then go and do it, since better may not be
Nay, but it should be thou
Who will know which of us it is?  I hated his presumption too much to
mark his antics
See us in a downright fight
we could strike as hard as any
courtly minion
As hard, but scarce as dexterously
and be called for
our pains the wild mountaineers.  I heard the men-at-arms saying I sat my
horse as though it were always going up or down a precipice; and Master
Schmidt went into his shop the other day shrugging his shoulders, and
saying we hailed one another across the market-place as if we thought Ulm
was a mountain full of gemsbocks
Thou heardst! and didst not cast his insolence in his teeth
How could I
when the echo was casting back in my
teeth my own shout to thee?  I could only laugh with Rudiger
The chief delight I could have, next to getting home, would be to lay
that fellow Rudiger on his back in the tilt-yard
Sir, that is a
question for ripe consideration
It is the question
whether you like to have your castle pulled
down about your ears
That has never happened yet to Adlerstein
No, because since the days of the Hohenstaufen there has been neither
rule nor union in the empire.  But times are changing fast, my Junker,
and within the last ten years forty castles such as yours have been
consumed by the Swabian League, as though they were so many walnuts
The shell of Adlerstein was too hard for them, though.  They never
tried
And wherefore, friend Eberhard?  It was because I represented to the
Kaiser and the Graf von Wurtemberg that little profit and no glory would
accrue from attacking a crag full of women and babes, and that I, having
the honour to be your next heir, should prefer having the castle
untouched, and under the peace of the empire, so long as that peace was
kept.  When you should come to years of discretion, then it would be for
you to carry out the intention wherewith your father and grandfather left
home
Then we have been protected by the peace of the empire all this time
Even so; and, had you not freely and nobly released your Genoese
merchant, it had gone hard with Adlerstein
Could Adlerstein be taken
Your grandmother thought not
It would be a troublesome siege; but the League numbers
1,500 horse, and 9,000 foot, and, with Schlangenwald's concurrence, you
would be assuredly starved out
Only to aid the Emperor with sword and counsel in field or Diet, and
thereby win fame and honour such as can scarce be gained by carrying prey
to yon eagle roost
One may preserve one's independence without robbery
Nay, lad: did you ever hear of a wolf that could live without marauding?
Or if he tried, would he get credit for so doing
After all
does not the present agreement hold till we
are of age?  I suppose the Swabian League would attempt nothing against
minors, unless we break the peace
Probably not; I will do my utmost to give the Freiherr there time to
grow beyond his grandmother's maxims
If
Schlangenwald do not meddle in the matter, he may have the next five
years to decide whether Adlerstein can hold out against all Germany
Freiherr Kasimir von Adlerstein Wildschloss
I do you to wit once for all that threats will not
serve with me.  If I submit, it will be because I am convinced it is
right.  Otherwise we had rather both be buried in the ruins of our
castle, as its last free lords
So
such burials look grim when the time
comes, but happily it is not coming yet
It was all too sheen
she did
not want to be in Paradise yet, among the saints!  O! take her back!  The
two bright, holy Michaels would let her go, for indeed she had made but
one mistake in her Ave
I will never do so
again!  Yes, it was a fib, but Mother Hildegard gave me a bit of
marchpane not to tell
You have no wings
Are you St. George, or St. Michael
Neither the one nor the other, pretty one.  Only your poor cousin
Friedel von Adlerstein, and here is Ebbo, my brother
Friedel and Ebbo, too
Then I won't come!  I am the Freiherrinn Thekla, the heiress
of Adlerstein Wildschloss and Felsenbach.  I won't be a nun.  I'll be
married!  You shall be my husband
Ay, ay, you shall have him.  He will come for you, sweetest Fraulein
so only you will come home!  Nobody will
come for you if you are naughty
Will you come if I am good
Yes
come back, my child, and
one day shall you see Ebbo, and have him for a brother
The matron's coif should succeed the widow's veil
See! see
look! there is something among
the tracery of the Dome Kirk Tower.  Is it man or bird
Bird, folly!  Thou couldst see no bird less than an eagle from hence
No doubt they are about to hoist a banner
That is not their wont
I see him
Nay, but he is a bold climber!  We went
up to that stage, close to the balcony, but there's no footing beyond but
crockets and canopies
And a bit of rotten scaffold
Perhaps he is a builder
going to examine it!  Up higher, higher
A builder
a man with a head and foot like that should be a
chamois hunter!  Shouldst thou deem it worse than the Red Eyrie,
Friedel
Yea, truly!  The depth beneath is plainer!  There would be no climbing
there without
Without what, cousin
Without great cause
It is fearful!  He is like a fly
against the sky
Beaten again
I did think that none of these town-bred
fellows could surpass us when it came to a giddy height!  Who can he be
Look! look
The saints protect him!  He is on that
narrowest topmost ledge--measuring; his heel is over the parapet--half his
foot
Holding on by the rotten scaffold pole!  St. Barbara be his speed; but
he is a brave man
Oh! the pole has broken
Heaven forefend
I see him!  I see him!  Praise to St.
Barbara!  He is safe!  He has caught by the upright stone work
Where? where?  Show me
There! clinging to that upright bit of tracery, stretching his foot out
to yonder crocket
I cannot see.  Mine eyes swim and dazzle
Merciful
heavens! is this another tempting of Providence?  How is it with him now,
Ebbo
Swarming down another slender bit of the stone network.  It must be easy
now to one who could keep head and hand steady in such a shock
There
he is on the lower
parapet, whence begins the stair.  Do you know him, sir?  Who is he
Either a Venetian mountebank
or else there is only
one man I know of either so foolhardy or so steady of head
Be he who he may
he is the bravest man that ever I beheld.
Who is he, Sir Kasimir
An eagle of higher flight than ours, no doubt
But
come; we shall reach the Dome Kirk by the time the climber has wound his
way down the turret stairs, and we shall see what like he is
Ha, Adlerstein! well met!  I looked to see thee here.
No unbonneting; I am not come yet.  I am at Strasburg, with the Kaisar
and the Archduke, and am not here till we ride in, in purple and in pall
by the time the good folk have hung out their arras, and donned their
gold chains, and conned their speeches, and mounted their mules
Well that their speeches are not over the lykewake of his kingly
kaisarly highness
Ha!  Thou sawest?  I came out here to avoid the gaping throng, who don't
know what a hunter can do.  I have been in worse case in the Tyrol.
Snowdrifts are worse footing than stone vine leaves
Where abides your highness
I ride back again to the halting-place for the night, and meet my father
in time to do my part in the pageant.  I was sick of the addresses, and,
moreover, the purse-proud Flemings have made such a stiff little fop of
my poor boy that I am ashamed to look at him, or hear his French accent.
So I rode off to get a view of this notable Dom in peace, ere it be
bedizened in holiday garb; and one can't stir without all the Chapter
waddling after one
Your highness has found means of distancing them
Why, truly, the Prior would scarce delight in the view from yonder
parapet
Ha!  Adlerstein, where didst get such a
perfect pair of pages?  I would I could match my hounds as well
They are no pages of mine, so please you
rather this
is the head of my name.  Let me present to your kingly highness the
Freiherr von Adlerstein
Thou dost not thyself distinguish between them
No, no, Junkern, I shall owe you no
thanks for bringing all the street on me!--that's enough.  Reserve the
rest for Kaisar Fritz
I remember now.  Thou wentest after an inheritance
from the old Mouser of the Debateable Ford, and wert ousted by a couple
of lusty boys sprung of a peasant wedlock
Nay, my lord, of a burgher lady, fair as she is wise and virtuous; who,
spite of all hindrances, has bred up these youths in all good and noble
nurture
Is this so
Are ye
minded to quit freebooting, and come a crusading against the Turks with
me
Everywhere with such a leader
What? up there
Thou hast the tread of a
chamois-hunter
Friedel has been on the Red Eyrie
Which is the Red Eyrie
It is the crag above our castle
None other has been there
but he saw the eagle flying away with a poor widow's kid, and
the sight must have given him wings, for we never could find the same
path; but here is one of the feathers he brought down
Nay
thou shouldst say that I came to a ledge where I
had like to have stayed all night, but that ye all came out with men and
ropes
We know what such a case is
It has chanced to us to
hang between heaven and earth; I've even had the Holy Sacrament held up
for my last pious gaze by those who gave me up for lost on the
mountain-side.  Adlerstein?  The peak above the Braunwasser?  Some day
shall ye show me this eyrie of yours, and we will see whether we can
amaze our cousins the eagles.  We see you at our father's court
to-morrow
There
never blame me for rashness and imprudence.  Here has this
height of the steeple proved the height of policy.  It has made a loyal
subject of a Mouser on the spot
Pray Heaven it may have won a heart, true though proud
but mousing was cured before by the wise training of the
mother.  Your highness will have taken out the sting of submission, and
you will scarce find more faithful subjects
How old are the Junkern
Some sixteen years, your highness
That is what living among mountains does for a lad.  Why could not those
thrice-accursed Flemish towns let me breed up my boy to be good for
something in the mountains, instead of getting duck-footed and
muddy-witted in the fens
realm of
kings
fist-right
Nay, but I am always naughty
with Mother Ludmilla in the convent, and I know I should never be naughty
out here with you and the barons; I should be so happy
Hush! hush! little one; here they come
Mutterlein
the Romish King
The Kaisar was most gracious, and the king knew me
and asked for thee, Friedel, saying one of us was nought
without the other.  But thou wilt go to-morrow, for we are to receive
knighthood
Already
Yea
The Romish king said somewhat about waiting to win
our spurs; but the Kaisar said I was in a position to take rank as a
knight, and I thanked him, so thou shouldst share the honour
The Kaisar
is not the man to let a knight's fee
slip between his fingers.  The king would have kept off their grip, and
reserved you for knighthood from his own sword under the banner of the
empire; but there is no help for it now, and you must make your vassals
send in their dues
My vassals
what could they send
The aid customary on the knighthood of the heir
But there is--there is nothing
They can scarce pay meal
and poultry enough for our daily fare; and if we were to flay them alive,
we should not get sixty groschen from the whole
True enough!  Knighthood must wait till we win it
Nay, it is accepted
The Kaisar loves his iron
chest too well to let you go back.  You must be ready with your round sum
to the chancellor, and your spur-money and your fee to the heralds, and
largess to the crowd
Mother, the dowry
At your service, my son
If your vassals cannot aid, yet may not your kinsman
No
No, sir!  Rather
will my mother, brother, and I ride back this very night to unfettered
liberty on our mountain, without obligation to any living man
Less hotly, Sir Baron
You broke in
on your noble godfather, and you had not heard me speak.  You and your
brother are the old man's only heirs, nor do ye incur any obligation that
need fret you by forestalling what would be your just right.  I will see
my nephews as well equipped as any young baron of them
Thanks, kind uncle.  From _you_ I have learnt to look
on goodness as fatherly
Only
if the Baron's station renders knighthood fitting
for him, surely I might remain his esquire
Never, Friedel
Without thee, nothing
Well said, Freiherr
what becomes the one becomes
the other.  I would not have thee left out, my Friedel, since I cannot
leave thee the mysteries of my craft
To-morrow
Then must the vigil be kept
to-night
The boy thinks these are the days of Roland and Karl the Great
He would fain watch his arms in the moonlight in the Dome
Kirk!  Alas! no, my Friedel!  Knighthood in these days smacks more of
bezants than of deeds of prowess
Unbearable fellow
First, holding up my inexperience to scorn!
As though the Kaisar knew not better than he what befits me!  Then trying
to buy my silence and my mother's gratitude with his hateful advance of
gold.  As if I did not loathe him enough without!  If I pay my homage,
and sign the League to-morrow, it will be purely that he may not plume
himself on our holding our own by sufferance, in deference to him
You will sign it--you will do homage
How rejoiced
the mother will be
I had rather depend at once--if depend I must--on yonder dignified Kaisar
and that noble king than on our meddling kinsman
I shall
be his equal now!  Ay, and no more classed with the court Junkern I was
with to-day.  The dullards!  No one reasonable thing know they but the
chase.  One had been at Florence; and when I asked him of the Baptistery
and rare Giotto of whom my uncle told us, he asked if he were a knight of
the Medici.  All he knew was that there were ortolans at Ser Lorenzo's
table; and he and the rest of them talked over wines as many and as hard
to call as the roll of AEneas's comrades; and when each one must drink to
her he loved best, and I said I loved none like my sweet mother, they
gibed me for a simple dutiful mountaineer.  Yea, and when the servants
brought a bowl, I thought it was a wholesome draught of spring water
after all their hot wines and fripperies.  Pah
The rose-water, Ebbo!  No wonder they laughed!  Why, the bowls for our
fingers came round at the banquet here
Ah! thou hast eyes for their finikin manners!  Yet what know they of
what we used to long for in polished life!  Not one but vowed he abhorred
books, and cursed Dr. Faustus for multiplying them.  I may not know the
taste of a stew, nor the fit of a glove, as they do, but I trust I bear a
less empty brain.  And the young Netherlanders that came with the
Archduke were worst of all.  They got together and gabbled French, and
treated the German Junkern with the very same sauce with which they had
served me.  The Archduke laughed with them, and when the Provost
addressed him, made as if he understood not, till his father heard, and
thundered out, 'How now, Philip!  Deaf on thy German ear?  I tell thee,
Herr Probst, he knows his own tongue as well as thou or I, and thou shalt
hear him speak as becomes the son of an Austrian hunter.'  That Romish
king is a knight of knights, Friedel.  I could follow him to the world's
end.  I wonder whether he will ever come to climb the Red Eyrie
It does not seem the world's end when one is there
Even the Dom steeple never rose to its full height
Oh, Ebbo! this
knighthood has come very suddenly after our many dreams; and, even though
its outward tokens be lowered, it is still a holy, awful thing
Sweet niece
thou hast done well by these youths; yet I doubt me at times
whether they be not too much lifted out of this veritable world of ours
Ah, fair uncle, were they not above it, how could they face its
temptations
True, my child; but how will it be when they find how lightly others
treat what to them is so solemn
There must be temptations for them, above all for Ebbo
but still, when I remember how my heart sank when their grandmother
tried to bring them up to love crime as sport and glory, I cannot but
trust that the good work will be wrought out, and my dream fulfilled,
that they may be lights on earth and stars in heaven.  Even this matter
of homage, that seemed so hard to my Ebbo, has now been made easy to him
by his veneration for the Emperor
Yea, truly, Herr Guildmaster, I would see these masterpieces.  Ha!  What
have you here for masterpieces?  Our two new double-ganger knights
The Frau Freiherrinn von Adlerstein?  Fair lady, I
greet you well, and thank you in the Kaisar's name and mine for having
bred up for us two true and loyal subjects
May they so prove themselves, my liege
And not only loyal-hearted
but
ready-brained, which is less frequent among our youth.  What is thy book,
young knight?  Virgilius Maro?  Dost thou read the Latin
Not as well as we wish, your kingly highness
having learnt solely of our mother till we came hither
Never fear for that, my young blade
Knowst not
that the wiseacres thought me too dull for teaching till I was past ten
years?  And what is thy double about?  Drawing on wood?  How now!  An
able draughtsman, my young knight
My nephew Sir Friedmund is good to the old man
My eyes are failing me, and he
is aiding me with the graving of this border.  He has the knack that no
teaching will impart to any of my present journeymen
Born, not made
Nay
no blushes, my boy; it is a rare
gift.  I can make a hundred knights any day, but the Almighty alone can
make a genius.  It was this very matter of graving that led me hither
And
what is this
what is the daintily-carved group I see
yonder
Your highness means, 'The Dove in the Eagle's Nest
It
is the work of my young kinsmen, and their appropriate device
As well chosen as carved
Well is it
that a city dove should now and then find her way to the eyrie.  Some of
my nobles would cut my throat for the heresy, but I am safe here, eh, Sir
Kasimir?  Fare ye well, ye dove-trained eaglets.  We will know one
another better when we bear the cross against the infidel
A very white and tender dove indeed, and one who might easily
nestle in another eyrie, methinks
Deems your kingly highness that consent could be won
From the Kaisar?  Pfui, man, thou knowst as well as I do the golden key
to his consent.  So thou wouldst risk thy luck again!  Thou hast no male
heir
And I would fain give my child a mother who would deal well with her.
Nay, to say sooth, that gentle, innocent face has dwelt with me for many
years.  But for my pre-contract, I had striven long ago to win her, and
had been a happier man, mayhap.  And, now I have seen what she has made
of her sons, I feel I could scarce find her match among our nobility
Nor elsewhere
and I honour thee for not being so
besotted in our German haughtiness as not to see that it is our free
cities that make refined and discreet dames.  I give you good speed,
Adlerstein; but, if I read aright the brow of one at least of these young
fellows, thou wilt scarce have a willing or obedient stepson
Surely funds have come in for finishing the spire
Have they appointed thee Provost for next year, house-father
Neither the one nor the other
But heard you not the
horse's feet?  Here has the Lord of Adlerstein Wildschloss been with me
in full state, to make formal proposals for the hand of our child,
Christina
For Christina
truly that is
well.  Truly our maiden has done honour to her breeding.  A second
nobleman demanding her--and one who should be able richly to endow her
And who will do so
For morning gift he
promises the farms and lands of Grunau--rich both in forest and corn
glebe.  Likewise, her dower shall be upon Wildschloss--where the soil is
of the richest pasture, and there are no less than three mills, whence
the lord obtains large rights of multure.  Moreover, the Castle was added
to and furnished on his marriage with the late baroness, and might serve
a Kurfurst; and though the jewels of Freiherrinn Valeska must be
inherited by her daughter, yet there are many of higher price which have
descended from his own ancestresses, and which will all be hers
And what a wedding we will have
it shall be truly
baronial.  I will take my hood and go at once to neighbour Sophie
Lemsberg, who was wife to the Markgraf's Under Keller-Meister.  She will
tell me point device the ceremonies befitting the espousals of a baron's
widow
Now,
little one, thou wilt not shut me out
Hold, dear aunt--my sons
Nay, child, it is the best thing thou couldst do for them.  Wonders hast
thou wrought, yet are they too old to be without fatherly authority.  I
speak not of Friedel; the lad is gentle and pious, though spirited, but
for the baron.  The very eye and temper of my poor brother Hugh--thy
father, Stine--are alive again in him.  Yea, I love the lad the better for
it, while I fear.  He minds me precisely of Hugh ere he was 'prenticed to
the weapon-smith, and all became bitterness
Ah, truly
all would become
bitterness with my Ebbo were I to give a father's power to one whom he
would not love
Then were he sullen and unruly, indeed
none have shown him more kindness, none could better aid
him in court and empire.  The lad has never had restraint enough.  I
blame thee not, child, but he needs it sorely, by thine own showing
Alas, uncle! mine be the blame, but it is over late.  My boy will rule
himself for the love of God and of his mother, but he will brook no hand
over him--least of all now he is a knight and thinks himself a man.
Uncle, I should be deprived of both my sons, for Friedel's very soul is
bound up with his brother's.  I pray thee enjoin not this thing on me
Child
thou thinkst not that such a
contract as this can be declined for the sake of a wayward Junker
Stay, house-father, the little one will doubtless hear reason and
submit
Her sons were goodly and delightsome to her
in their upgrowth, but they are well-nigh men.  They will be away to
court and camp, to love and marriage; and how will it be with her then,
young and fair as she still is?  Well will it be for her to have a
stately lord of her own, and a new home of love and honour springing
round her
True
and though she be too pious and wise to reck
greatly of such trifles, yet it may please her dreamy brain to hear that
Sir Kasimir loves her even like a paladin, and the love of a tried man of
six-and-forty is better worth than a mere kindling of youthful fancy
Mine Eberhard loved me
And what was such love worth?  To force thee into a stolen match, and
leave thee alone and unowned to the consequences
Peace
Peace!  My own dear lord loved me with true and generous love!  None but
myself knows how much.  Not a word will I hear against that tender
heart
Yes, peace
peace to the
brave Sir Eberhard.  Thine aunt meant no ill of him.  He truly would
rejoice that the wisdom of his choice should receive such testimony, and
that his sons should be thus well handled.  Nay, little as I heed such
toys, it will doubtless please the lads that the baron will obtain of the
Emperor letters of nobility for this house, which verily sprang of a good
Walloon family, and so their shield will have no blank.  The Romish king
promises to give thee rank with any baroness, and hath fully owned what a
pearl thou art, mine own sweet dove!  Nay, Sir Kasimir is coming
to-morrow in the trust to make the first betrothal with Graf von Kaulwitz
as a witness, and I thought of asking the Provost on the other hand
To-morrow
and how is she to be meetly clad?  Look
at this widow-garb; and how is time to be found for procuring other
raiment?  House-father, a substantial man like you should better
understand!  The meal too!  I must to gossip Sophie
Verily, dear mother and father
have patience with me.  I may not lightly or suddenly betroth
myself; I know not that I can do so at all, assuredly not unless my sons
were heartily willing.  Have I your leave to retire
Granted, my child, for meditation will show thee that this is too fair a
lot for any but thee.  Much had I longed to see thee wedded ere thy sons
outgrew thy care, but I shunned proposing even one of our worthy
guildmasters, lest my young Freiherr should take offence; but this
knight, of his own blood, true and wise as a burgher, and faithful and
God-fearing withal, is a better match than I durst hope, and is no doubt
a special reward from thy patron saint
Let me entreat one favour more
Speak of this to
no one ere I have seen my sons
My husband! my loving Eberhard! left with none but me to
love thee, unknown to thine own sons!  I cannot, I will not give my heart
away from thee!  Thy little bride shall be faithful to thee, whatever
betide.  When we meet beyond the grave I will have been thine only, nor
have set any before thy sons.  Heaven forgive me if I be undutiful to my
uncle; but thou must be preferred before even him!  Hark
Mother,
mother, what insolence is this
Hush, Ebbo!  I prayed mine uncle to let me speak to thee
It is true, then
I had
soundly beaten that grinning 'prentice for telling Heinz
Truly the house rings with the rumour, mother
but we
had not believed it
I believed Wildschloss assured enough for aught
but I
thought he knew where to begin.  Does he not know who is head of the
house of Adlerstein, since he must tamper with a mechanical craftsman,
cap in hand to any sprig of nobility!  I would have soon silenced his
overtures
Is it in sooth as we heard
Mother, we know what you would say
Thou knewst it, Friedel, and now must thou
aid me to remain thy father's true widow, and to keep Ebbo from being
violent
Motherling, I will restrain myself, so you will give me your word
not to desert us
Nay, Ebbo
the motherling is too true and loving for us
to bind her
Children
hear me patiently.  I have been communing with
myself, and deeply do I feel that none other can I love save him who is
to you a mere name, but to me a living presence.  Nor would I put any
between you and me.  Fear me not, Ebbo.  I think the mothers and sons of
this wider, fuller world do not prize one another as we do.  But, my son,
this is no matter for rage or ingratitude.  Remember it is no small
condescension in a noble to stoop to thy citizen mother
He knew what painted puppets noble ladies are
Moreover
thine uncle is highly gratified, and
cannot believe that I can refuse.  He understands not my love for thy
father, and sees many advantages for us all.  I doubt me if he believes I
have power to resist his will, and for thee, he would not count thine
opposition valid.  And the more angry and vehement thou art, the more
will he deem himself doing thee a service by overruling thee
Come home, mother.  Let Heinz lead our horses to the door in the dawn,
and when we are back in free Adlerstein it will be plain who is master
Such a flitting would scarce prove our wisdom
to run
away with thy mother like a lover in a ballad.  Nay, let me first deal
gently with thine uncle, and speak myself with Sir Kasimir, so that I may
show him the vanity of his suit.  Then will we back to Adlerstein without
leaving wounds to requite kindness
My young lords
I fear me ye are vexing your gentle mother by
needless strife at what must take place
Pardon me, good uncle
I utterly decline the honour of Sir
Kasimir's suit to my mother
Sons are not wont to be the judges in such
cases, Sir Eberhard
Perhaps not
but my mother's will is to the nayward, nor
shall she be coerced
It is merely because of you and your pride
I think not so
my mother's love for my
father is still fresh
Young knights
it would scarce become me to
say, nor you to hear, how much matter of fancy such love must have been
towards one whom she knew but for a few short months, though her pure
sweet dreams, through these long years, have moulded him into a hero.
Boys, I verily believe ye love her truly.  Would it be well for her still
to mourn and cherish a dream while yet in her fresh age, capable of new
happiness, fuller than she has ever enjoyed
She is happy with us
And ye are good lads and loving sons, though less duteous in manner than
I could wish.  But look you, you may not ever be with her, and when ye
are absent in camp or court, or contracting a wedlock of your own, would
you leave her to her lonesome life in your solitary castle
All mine is hers.  No joy to me but shall be a joy to her.  We
can make her happier than could any stranger.  Is it not so, Friedel
It is
Ah, rash bloods, promising beyond what ye can keep.  Nature will be too
strong for you.  Love your mother as ye may, what will she be to you when
a bride comes in your way?  Fling not away in wrath, Sir Baron; it was so
with your parents both before you; and what said the law of the good God
at the first marriage?  How can you withstand the nature He has given
Belike I may wed
but if it be not for my mother's
happiness, call me man-sworn knight
Not so
but boy-sworn paladin, who
talks of he knows not what.  Speak knightly truth, Sir Baron, and own
that this opposition is in verity from distaste to a stepfather's rule
I own that I will not brook such rule
nor do I know what
we have done to deserve that it should be thrust on us.  You have never
blamed Friedel, at least; and verily, uncle, my mother's eye will lead me
where a stranger's hand shall never drive me.  Did I even think she had
for this man a quarter of the love she bears to my dead father, I would
strive for endurance; but in good sooth we found her in tears, praying us
to guard her from him.  I may be a boy, but I am man enough to prevent
her from being coerced
Was this so, Friedel
Ach, I thought ye all wiser.  And spake she not
of Sir Kasimir's offers?--Interest with the Romish king?--Yea, and a grant
of nobility and arms to this house, so as to fill the blank in your
scutcheon
My father never asked if she were noble
Nor will I barter
her for a cantle of a shield
There spake a manly spirit
Her worth hath
taught thee how little to prize these gewgaws!  Yet, if you look to
mingling with your own proud kind, ye may fall among greater slights than
ye can brook.  It may matter less to you, Sir Baron, but Friedel here,
ay, and your sons, will be ineligible to the choicest orders of
knighthood, and the canonries and chapters that are honourable
endowments
The order of
the Dove of Adlerstein is enough for us
Headstrong all, headstrong all
One romantic
marriage has turned all your heads
Lady,
I have preferred my suit to you through your honour-worthy uncle, who is
good enough to stand my friend
You are over good, sir.  I feel the honour, but a second wedlock may not
be mine
Now
now will the smooth-tongued fellow talk her out
of her senses.  Alack! that gipsy prophecy
While I, sir
beg to decline the honour in the name of the elder house of
Adlerstein
Burgomaster Sorel
let me hear whether I am a person of any
consideration in this family or not
Nephew baron
it is not the use of
us Germans to be dictated to by youths not yet arrived at years of
discretion
Then, mother
we leave this place to-morrow morn
Not so
We quit the house as poor as we came, in homespun and
with the old mare
Peace, Ebbo
peace, I entreat, house-mother!
pardon, uncle, I pray thee.  O, why will not all who love me let me
follow that which I believe to be best
Child
I cannot see thee domineered over by a youth
whose whole conduct shows his need of restraint
Nor am I
It is I who am utterly averse to this
offer.  My sons and I are one in that; and, uncle, if I pray of you to
consent to let us return to our castle, it is that I would not see the
visit that has made us so happy stained with strife and dissension!
Sure, sure, you cannot be angered with my son for his love for me
For the self-seeking of his love
It is to
gratify his own pride that he first would prevent thee from being
enriched and ennobled, and now would bear thee away to the scant--Nay,
Freiherr, I will not seem to insult you, but resentment would make you
cruel to your mother
Not cruel
My mother is willing.  And verily,
good uncle, methinks that we all were best at home.  We have benefited
much and greatly by our stay; we have learnt to love and reverence you;
but we are wild mountaineers at the best; and, while our hearts are
fretted by the fear of losing our sweet mother, we can scarce be as
patient or submissive as if we had been bred up by a stern father.  We
have ever judged and acted for ourselves, and it is hard to us not to do
so still, when our minds are chafed
Friedel
I will have no pardon asked for
maintaining my mother's cause.  Do not thou learn to be smooth-tongued
O thou wrong-headed boy
Why did not
all this fall out ten years sooner, when thou wouldst have been amenable?
Yet, after all, I do not know that any noble training has produced a more
high-minded loving youth
the motherling
Get thee gone, boy, I would not quarrel with you;
and it may be, as Friedel says, that we are best out of one another's
way.  You are used to lord it, and I can scarce make excuses for you
Then
I take home my mother, and you, sir,
cease to favour Kasimir's suit
No, Sir Baron.  I cease not to think that nothing would be so much for
your good.  It is because I believe that a return to your own old castle
will best convince you all that I will not vex your mother by further
opposing your departure.  When you perceive your error may it only not be
too late!  Such a protector is not to be found every day
My mother shall never need any protector save myself
but,
sir, she loves you, and owes all to you.  Therefore I will not be at
strife with you, and there is my hand
Wot you, Eberhard, Freiherr von Adlerstein, that your house have
    injured me by thought, word, and deed.  Your great-grandfather
    usurped my lands at the ford.  Your grandfather stole my cattle and
    burnt my mills.  Then, in the war, he slew my brother Johann and
    lamed for life my cousin Matthias.  Your father slew eight of my
    retainers and spoiled my crops.  You yourself claim my land at the
    ford, and secure the spoil which is justly mine.  Therefore do I
    declare war and feud against you.  Therefore to you and all yours, to
    your helpers and helpers' helpers, am I a foe.  And thereby shall I
    have maintained my honour against you and yours.

                                         WOLFGANG, Graf von Schlangenwald.
                               HIEROM, Graf von Schlangenwald--his cousin
The old miscreant
it is a feud brief
A feud brief
they are no longer according to the
law
Law?--what cares he for law or mercy either?  Is this the way men act by
the League?  Did we not swear to send no more feud letters, nor have
recourse to fist-right
We must appeal to the Markgraf of Wurtemburg
What could be done
Fire some Schlangenwald hamlet, and teach him to respect yours
The poor serfs are guiltless
Ha! ha! as if they would not rob any of yours.  Give and take, that's
the way the empire wags, Sir Baron.  Send him a feud letter in return,
with a goodly file of names at its foot, and teach him to respect you
But I have sworn to abstain from fist-right
Much you gain by so abstaining.  If the League will not take the trouble
to right you, right yourself
I shall appeal to the Emperor, and tell him how his League is
administered
Young sir, if the Emperor were to guard every cow in his domains he
would have enough to do.  You will never prosper with him without some
one to back your cause better than that free tongue of yours.  Hast no
sister that thou couldst give in marriage to a stout baron that could aid
you with strong arm and prudent head
I have only one twin brother
Ah! the twins of Adlerstein!  I remember me.  Was not the other
Adlerstein seeking an alliance with your lady mother?  Sure no better aid
could be found.  He is hand and glove with young King Max
That may never be
Schlangenwald should suffer next time he transgressed
It
should not again be said that he himself was a coward who appealed to the
law because his hand could not keep his head
Burn it, Herr Freiherr
Let them learn
how to make havoc of our corn
Friedel, what can we do
Not barbarous murder
But they brand us for cowards
The cowardice were in striking here
Peasants
I spare you.  You did not
this wrong.  But bear word to your lord, that if he will meet me with
lance and sword, he will learn the valour of Adlerstein
The halter is ready, Herr Freiherr
and yon rowan
stump is still as stout as when your Herr grandsire hung three
lanzknechts on it in one day.  We only waited your bidding
Quick then, and let me hear no more
Has he seen the priest
Hold, Ulrich!  Little Hans, do thou run down to the castle, and
bring Father Jodocus to do his office
It never was so seen before, Herr
Freiherr
fang and hang was ever the word
What shrift had my lord's father, or mine
Look you
If Schlangenwald be a godless
ruffian, pitiless alike to soul and body, is that a cause that I should
stain myself too
It were true vengeance
And now
will my lady hear, and there will be feeble
pleadings for the vermin's life
We had better tarry at hand.  Unless we hold the folk in
some check there will be no right execution.  They will torture him to
death ere the priest comes
Friedel,
how couldst ask me?  Knowst not that it sickens me to see a mountain cat
killed, save in full chase.  And thou--why, thou art white as the snow
crags
Better conquer the folly than that he there should be put to needless
pain
Ha
what do ye there?  Fang and hang may be fair; fang and torment is
base!  What was it, Lieschen
Only, Herr Freiherr, the caitiff craved drink, and the fleischerinn gave
him a cup from the stream behind the slaughter-house, where we killed the
swine.  Fit for the like of him
By heavens, when I forbade torture
Wretches
Now
hast ought to say for thyself
What brought thee here
Coming
Coming!
Let him wait
I must go and bring him, if the thing is to be done
And let it last all night
No, if the man were to
die, it should be at once, not by inches.  Hark thee, rogue
Well, sir
is the hanging ready yet?  You've been long
enough about it for us to have twisted the necks of every Adlerstein of
you all
Look thee, caitiff
thou meritest the rope as well as any
wolf on the mountain, but we have kept thee so long in suspense, that if
thou canst say a word for thy life, or pledge thyself to meddle no more
with my lands, I'll consider of thy doom
You have had plenty of time to consider it
Letting off the villain!  No!  No!  Out upon him!  He dares not
Dare
Rascals as ye are, think ye
to hinder me from daring?  Your will to be mine?  There, fellow; away
with thee!  Up to the Gemsbock's Pass!  And whoso would follow him, let
him do so at his peril
What, Friedel, turned stony-hearted?  Hadst never a
word for the poor caitiff
I knew thou wouldst never do the deed
It was such wretched prey
Yet shall I be despised for
this!  Would that thou hadst let me string him up shriftless, as any
other man had done, and there would have been an end of it
The matron's coif succeeding the widow's veil
Thou, who mockest my forebodings and fancies, to dwell on that gipsy
augury
As thou saidst at the time, Wildschloss's
looks gave shrewd cause for it
The answer is in mine own heart
Since our stay at
Ulm, I have ever felt as though the sweet motherling were less my own!
And the same with my house and lands.  Rule as I will, a mocking laugh
comes back to me, saying: 'Thou art but a boy, Sir Baron, thou dost but
play at lords and knights.'  If I had hung yon rogue of a reiter, I
wonder if I had felt my grasp more real
Nay
our whole life is but a play at lords and knights, with the
blessed saints as witnesses of our sport in the tilt-yard
Were it merely that
I were not so galled.
Something hangs over us, Friedel!  I long that these snows would melt,
that I might at least know what it is
It cannot be rightly
passable.  They will come to loss.  I shall get the men together to aid
them
The knaves will be alert enough
if they hope to meddle with honest men's luggage
See
is not the Snake in the wood?  Methinks
I spy the glitter of his scales
By heavens, the villains are lying in wait for the travellers at our
landing-place
We must speed the short way down the rock
and cannot be
cumbered with heavy harness.  Sweet motherling, fear not; but let a meal
be spread for our rescued captives.  Ho, Heinz, 'tis against the
Schlangenwald rascals.  Art too stiff to go down the rock path
No; nor down the abyss, could I strike a good stroke against
Schlangenwald at the bottom of it
Nor see vermin set free by the Freiherr
Now is our time
One
waggon may get over, but the second or third will stick in the ruts that
it leaves.  Now we will drop from our crag, and if the Snake falls on
them, why, then for a pounce of the Eagle
The Eagle to the rescue
There, mother, will you crown your
knights?  Could you see Ebbo bear down the chief squire? for the old
Snake was not there himself.  And whom do you think we rescued, besides a
whole band of Venetian traders to whom he had joined himself?  Why, my
uncle's friend, the architect, of whom he used to speak--Master Moritz
Schleiermacher
Moritz Schleiermacher!  I knew him as a boy
He had been laying out a Lustgarten for the Romish king at Innspruck,
and he is a stout man of his hands, and attempted defence; but he had
such a shrewd blow before we came up, that he lay like one dead; and when
he was lifted up, he gazed at us like one moon-struck, and said, 'Are my
eyes dazed, or are these the twins of Adlerstein, that are as like as
face to mirror?  Lads, lads, your uncle looked not to hear of you acting
in this sort.'  But soon we and his people let him know how it was, and
that eagles do not have the manner of snakes
Poor Master Moritz!  Is he much hurt?  Is Ebbo bringing him up hither
No, mother, he is but giddied and stunned, and now must you send down
store of sausage, sourkraut, meat, wine, and beer; for the wains cannot
all cross till daylight, and we must keep ward all night lest the
Schlangenwalden should fall on them again.  Plenty of good cheer, mother,
to make a right merry watch
Take heed, Friedel mine; a merry watch is scarce a safe one
Even so, sweet motherling, and therefore must Ebbo and I share it.  You
must mete out your liquor wisely, you see, enough for the credit of
Adlerstein, and enough to keep out the marsh fog, yet not enough to make
us snore too soundly.  I am going to take my lute; it would be using it
ill not to let it enjoy such a chance as a midnight watch
Pity
that this ford were not spanned by a
bridge, to the avoiding of danger and spoil
Who could build such a bridge
Yourself, Herr Freiherr, in union with us burghers of Ulm.  It were well
worth your while to give land and stone, and ours to give labour and
skill, provided we fixed a toll on the passage, which would be willingly
paid to save peril and delay
Peace instead of
war at home
with the revenue it will bring, I will build a
mill, and set our lads to work, so that they may become less dull and
doltish than their parents.  Then will we follow the Emperor with a train
that none need despise!  No one will talk now of Adlerstein not being
able to take care of himself
Honour-worthy sirs
no letter did the Graf von
Schlangenwald return
Sent he no message
Yea, worthy sir, but scarce befitting this reverend assembly
The Lord Count was pleased to swear
at what he termed the insolence of the city in sending him heralds, 'as
if,' said he, 'the dogs,' your worships, 'were his equals.'  Then having
cursed your worships, he reviled the crooked writing of Herr Clerk
Diedrichson, and called his chaplain to read it to him.  Herr Priest
could scarce read three lines for his foul language about the ford.
'Never,' said he, 'would he consent to raising a bridge--a mean trick,' so
said he, 'for defrauding him of his rights to what the flood sent him
But
took he no note of our explanation, that if he give
not the upper bank, we will build lower, where both sides are my own
He passed it not entirely over
What said he--the very words
He said--(the Herr Freiherr will pardon me for repeating the words)--he
said, 'Tell the misproud mongrel of Adlerstein that he had best sit firm
in his own saddle ere meddling with his betters, and if he touch one
pebble of the Braunwasser, he will rue it.  And before your city-folk
take up with him or his, they had best learn whether he have any right at
all in the case
His right is plain
full proofs were given in,
and his investiture by the Kaisar forms a title in itself.  It is mere
bravado, and an endeavour to make mischief between the Baron and the
city
Even so did I explain, Herr Guildmaster
but,
pardon me, the Count laughed me to scorn, and quoth he, 'asked the Kaisar
for proof of his father's death
Mere mischief-making, as before
His father's death was proved by an
eye-witness, whom you still have in your train, have you not, Herr
Freiherr
Yea
he is at Adlerstein now, Heinrich Bauermann, called
the Schneiderlein, a lanzknecht, who alone escaped the slaughter, and
from whom we have often heard how my father died, choked in his own
blood, from a deep breast-wound, immediately after he had sent home his
last greetings to my lady mother
Was the corpse restored
No
Almost all our retainers had perished, and when a
friar was sent to the hostel to bring home the remains, it appeared that
the treacherous foe had borne them off--nay, my grandfather's head was
sent to the Diet
Strife and blood will it cost
What can be had worth the having save at cost of strife and blood
Youth speaks of counting the cost.  Little knows it what it saith
Nay
were it otherwise, who would have the
heart for enterprise
Friedel
What
art musing on
What thou art thinking of
I do not think thereon at all
It is a figment
of the old serpent to hinder us from snatching his prey from him
Nevertheless
I cannot but remember that the Genoese
merchant of old told us of a German noble sold by his foes to the Moors
Folly!  That tale was too recent to concern my father
I did not think it did
but mayhap that noble's family
rest equally certain of his death
Pfui
hast not heard fifty times how he died even in
speaking, and how Heinz crossed his hands on his breast?  What wouldst
have more
Hardly even that
Tush
I meant only by way of proof.
Would an honest old fellow like Heinz be a deceiver
Not wittingly.  Yet I would fain ride to that hostel and make
inquiries
The traitor host met his deserts, and was broken on the wheel for
murdering a pedlar a year ago
I would I knew where my
father was buried, for then would I bring his corpse honourably back; but
as to his being a living man, I will not have it spoken of to trouble my
mother
To trouble her
To trouble her
Long since hath passed the pang of his
loss, and there is reason in what old Sorel says, that he must have been
a rugged, untaught savage, with little in common with the gentle one, and
that tender memory hath decked him out as he never could have been.  Nay,
Friedel, it is but sense.  What could a man have been under the
granddame's breeding
It becomes not thee to say so
Nay, he could learn
to love our mother
One sign of grace, but doubtless she loved him the better for their
having been so little together.  Her heart is at peace, believing him in
his grave; but let her imagine him in Schlangenwald's dungeon, or some
Moorish galley, if thou likest it better, and how will her mild spirit be
rent
It might be so
It may be best to keep
this secret from her till we have fuller certainty
Agreed then
unless the Wildschloss fellow should again
molest us, when his answer is ready
Is this just towards my mother
Just!  What mean'st thou?  Is it not our office and our dearest right to
shield our mother from care?  And is not her chief wish to be rid of the
Wildschloss suit
What, think you I would have quitted him while life was yet
in him
No, certainly, good Heinz; yet I would fain know by what tokens thou
knewest his death
Ah!  Sir Friedel; when you have seen a stricken field or two, you will
not ask how I know death from life
Is a swoon so utterly unlike death
I say not but that an inexperienced youth might be mistaken
but for one who had learned the bloody trade, it were impossible.
Why ask, sir
Because
my brother would not have
my mother know it, but--Count Schlangenwald demanded whether we could
prove my father's death
Prove!  He could not choose but die with three such wounds, as the old
ruffian knows.  I shall bless the day, Sir Friedmund, when I see you or
your brother give back those strokes!  A heavy reckoning be his
We all deem that line only meant to cross our designs
Yet, Heinz, I would I knew how to find out what passed when thou wast
gone.  Is there no servant at the inn--no retainer of Schlangenwald that
aught could be learnt from
By St. Gertrude
if you cannot be
satisfied with the oath of a man like me, who would have given his life
to save your father, I know not what will please you
The musing fit is on him!--he will stay all
night at the tarn if I fetch him not
Ah, dreamer
I knew where to seek thee!  Ever in the
clouds
Yes, I have been to the tarn
It has been very dear to me,
and I longed to see its gray depths once more
Once!  Yea manifold times shalt thou see them
Schleiermacher tells me that these are no Janissaries, but a mere
miscreant horde, even by whom glory can scarce be gained, and no peril at
all
I know not
but it is to me as if I were taking my leave
of all these purple hollows and heaven-lighted peaks cleaving the sky.
All the more, Ebbo, since I have made up my mind to a resolution
Nay, none of the old monkish fancies
against them thou
art sworn, so long as I am true knight
No, it is not the monkish fancy, but I am convinced that it is my duty
to strive to ascertain my father's fate.  Hold, I say not that it is
thine.  Thou hast thy charge here
Looking for a dead man
a proper quest
Not so
At the camp it will surely be possible to
learn, through either Schlangenwald or his men, how it went with my
father.  Men say that his surviving son, the Teutonic knight, is of very
different mould.  He might bring something to light.  Were it proved to
be as the Schneiderlein avers, then would our conscience be at rest; but,
if he were in Schlangenwald's dungeon
Folly!  Impossible
Yet men have pined eighteen years in dark vaults
and,
when I think that so may he have wasted for the whole of our lives that
have been so free and joyous on his own mountain, it irks me to bound on
the heather or gaze at the stars
If the serpent hath dared
though it is mere folly to
think of it, we would summon the League and have his castle about his
ears!  Not that I believe it
Scarce do I
but there haunts me evermore the
description of the kindly German chained between the decks of the
Corsair's galley.  Once and again have I dreamt thereof.  And, Ebbo,
recollect the prediction that so fretted thee.  Might not yon
dark-cheeked woman have had some knowledge of the East and its captives
So thou wouldst begin thine
errantry like Sir Hildebert and Sir Hildebrand in the 'Rose garden'?
Have a care.  Such quests end in mortal conflict between the unknown
father and son
I should know him
or, at least, he
would know my mother's son in me; and, could I no otherwise ransom him, I
would ply the oar in his stead
A fine exchange for my mother and me
to lose
thee, my sublimated self, for a rude, savage lord, who would straightway
undo all our work, and rate and misuse our sweet mother for being more
civilized than himself
Shame, Ebbo
or art thou but in jest
So far in jest that thou wilt never go, puissant Sir Hildebert
Thou wilt learn--as I also trust to
do--in what nameless hole the serpent hid his remains.  Then shall they be
duly coffined and blazoned.  All the monks in the cloisters for twenty
miles round shall sing requiems, and thou and I will walk bareheaded,
with candles in our hands, by the bier, till we rest him in the Blessed
Friedmund's chapel; and there Lucas Handlein shall carve his tomb, and
thou shalt sit for the likeness
So may it end
but either I will know him dead, or
endeavour somewhat in his behalf.  And that the need is real, as well as
the purpose blessed, I have become the more certain, for, Ebbo, as I rose
to descend the hill, I saw on the cloud our patron's very form--I saw
myself kneel before him and receive his blessing
Now know I that it is indeed as saith
Schleiermacher
and that these phantoms of the Blessed
Friedmund are but shadows cast by the sun on the vapours of the ravine.
See, Friedel, I had gone to seek thee at the chapel, and meeting Father
Norbert, I bent my knee, that I might take his farewell blessing.  I had
the substance, thou the shadow, thou dreamer
Be it so!  I have oft read
that men are too prone to take visions and special providences to
themselves, and now I have proved the truth of the saying
And
thou seest thy purpose is as baseless as thy vision
No, Ebbo.  It grieves me to differ from thee, but my resolve is older
than the fancy, and may not be shaken because I was vain enough to
believe that the Blessed Friedmund could stoop to bless me
Ha
Who goes there, skulking round the rocks?  Here, rogue, what
art after here
No harm
Whence art thou?  From Schlangenwald, to spy what more we can be robbed
of?  The lash
Hold
Perchance the poor lad had no evil
purposes.  Didst lose thy way
No, sir, my mother sent me
I thought so
This comes of sparing the nest of thankless
adders
Nay
mayhap it is because they are not thankless that
the poor fellow is here
Sir
I will tell _you_--_you_ I will
tell--not him who threatens.  Mother said you spared our huts, and the
lady gave us bread when we came to the castle gate in winter, and she
would not see the reiters lay waste your folk's doings down there without
warning you
My good lad!  What saidst thou
All the
lanzknechts and reiters are at the castle, and the Herr Graf has taken
all my father's young sheep for them, a plague upon him.  And our folk
are warned to be at the muster rock to-morrow morn, each with a bundle of
straw and a pine brand; and Black Berend heard the body squire say the
Herr Graf had sworn not to go to the wars till every stick at the ford be
burnt, every stone drowned, every workman hung
Craving your pardon, gracious lady
that blame
rests with him who provokes the war.  See, lord baron, there is time to
send to Ulm, where the two guilds, our allies, will at once equip their
trained bands and despatch them.  We meanwhile will hold the knaves in
check, and, by the time our burghers come up, the snake brood will have
had such a lesson as they will not soon forget.  Said I well, Herr
Freiherr
Right bravely
It consorts not with our honour or rights,
with my pledges to Ulm, or the fame of my house, to shut ourselves up and
see the rogues work their will scatheless.  My own score of men, besides
the stouter masons, carpenters, and serfs, will be fully enough to make
the old serpent of the wood rue the day, even without the aid of the
burghers.  Not a word against it, dearest mother.  None is so wise as
thou in matters of peace, but honour is here concerned
My question is
whether honour be not better
served by obeying the summons of the king against the infidel, with the
men thou hast called together at his behest?  Let the count do his worst;
he gives thee legal ground of complaint to lay before the king and the
League, and all may there be more firmly established
That were admirable counsel, lady
well suited to
the honour-worthy guildmaster Sorel, and to our justice-loving city; but,
in matters of baronial rights and aggressions, king and League are wont
to help those that help themselves, and those that are over nice as to
law and justice come by the worst
Not the worst in the long run
Thine unearthly code will not serve us here, Friedel mine
Did I not defend the work I have begun, I should be branded as
a weak fool.  Nor will I see the foes of my house insult me without
striking a fair stroke.  Hap what hap, the Debateable Ford shall be
debated!  Call in the serfs, Hatto, and arm them.  Mother, order a good
supper for them.  Master Moritz, let us summon thy masons and carpenters,
and see who is a good man with his hands among them
Keep back your men, Herr
Freiherr.  Let his design be manifest.  We must not be said to have
fallen on him on his way to the muster
It would be but as he served my father
The ruffian!  He is calling them on!  Now
Nay, there is no sign yet that he is not peacefully on his journey to
the camp
The lazy dogs are not astir yet.
We will give them a reveille.  Forward with your brands
Now
Who troubles the workmen on my land
Who you may be I care not
but when I find
strangers unlicensed on my lands, I burn down their huts.  On, fellows
Back, fellows
Whoso touches a stick on Adlerstein
ground shall suffer
So
this is the burgher-bred, burgher-fed varlet, that
calls himself of Adlerstein!  Boy, thou had best be warned.  Wert thou
true-blooded, it were worth my while to maintain my rights against thee.
Craven as thou art, not even with spirit to accept my feud, I would fain
not have the trouble of sweeping thee from my path
Herr Graf, as true Freiherr and belted knight, I defy thee!  I proclaim
my right to this ground, and whoso damages those I place there must do
battle with me
Thou wilt have it then
Ay
'twas a gallant
feat, Sir Friedel, and I trust there is no great harm done.  Were it the
mere dint of the count's sword, your brother will be little the worse
Ebbo!  Ebbo mine, look up
Friedel
O take away the horse
Have I
slain him?  It was the shot, not he, that sent me down.  Lives he?
See--thou, Friedel--thou.  Make him yield
Let me aid
Thou again,--thou whelp!
I thought at least I had made an end of thee
Herr Graf, variance and strife are ended now.  For heaven's sake, say
where I may find my father
So!  Wouldst find him
I would bless you for ever, could I but free him
Know then
know that thy villain father is a Turkish slave,
unless he be--as I hope--where his mongrel son may find him
Shame! treason
I call you to witness that I had not yielded
There's
an end of the brood
Fear not; it
is nothing
Ah!  Sir Friedel, the traitor did his work!  That is no slight hurt
Where?  How?  The ruffian
I do not
feel it.  This is more numb dulness than pain
A bad sign that
Herr Freiherr
have you breath to wind your
bugle to call the men back from the pursuit
Methinks
that I could ride if I were lifted on
horseback, and thus would our mother be less shocked
Well thought
Go on and cheer her.  Show her thou canst
keep the saddle, however it may be with me
The holy cross keep us and
her, Ebbo
We
shall be together again soon
It goes so with the backbone
Sir Friedmund, you had best be carried
Nay, for my mother's sake!  And I would fain be on my good steed's back
once again
Victory, dear mother.  Ebbo has
overthrown the count, and you must not be grieved if it be at some cost
of blood
Alas, my son
Nay, motherling
sorrow not, for Ebbo will need thee much.  And,
mother
there is joy coming to you.  Only I
would that I could have brought him.  Mother, he died not under the
Schlangenwald swords
Who?  Not Ebbo
Your own Eberhard, our father
The cruel count
owned it with his last breath.  He is a Turkish slave, and surely heaven
will give him back to comfort you, even though we may not work his
freedom!  O mother, I had so longed for it, but God be thanked that at
least certainty was bought by my life
Ah! poor fellow, thou too wilt be lonely.
May Ebbo yet ride thee
Is
that the hue of death on thy face, brother
I well believe so
Ever together
But alas!  My mother!
Would I had never sent thee to the traitor
Ah!  So comes her comfort
Heard you not?  He owned
that my father was among the Turks
And I
I have withheld thee!  O Friedel, had I listened
to thee, thou hadst not been in this fatal broil
Nay, ever together
Through Ulm merchants will my
mother be able to ransom him.  I know she will, so oft have I dreamt of
his return.  Then, mother, you will give him our duteous greetings
Friedel
is even like the holy
Sebastian or Maurice; but I--I was never such as he.  O father, will it be
my penance to be left alone when he is in paradise
What is that
Nay, Ebbo; one repentance,
one cross, one hope
There, motherling
It is well.  Tell the dear Ebbo
that I cannot help it if after all I go to the praying, and leave him the
fighting.  Dear, dear Ebbo!  One day together again and for ever!  I
leave thee for thine own sake
Take me now, Heinz, ere Ebbo revive
to be grieved.  The last sacrifice
Friedel
He is not singing now
Singing indeed, but where we cannot hear him
Whiter
than the snow, clearer than the ice-cave, more solemn than the choir.
They will come at last.'  That was what he said, even as he entered
there
Let him not be taken away,
mother; let him wait for me
Nay, Ebbo mine, wherefore wish ill to a good work that our blessed one
loved?  Listen, and let me tell you my dream for making yonder strand a
peaceful memorial of our peaceful boy
To honour Friedel
Yes, Ebbo, and as he would best brook honour.  Let us seek for ever to
end the rival claims to yon piece of meadow by praying this knight of a
religious order, the new count, to unite with us in building there--or as
near as may be safe--a church of holy peace, and a cell for a priest, who
may watch over the bridge ward, and offer the holy sacrifice for the
departed of either house.  There will we place our gentle Friedel to be
the first to guard the peace of the ford, and there will we sleep
ourselves when our time shall come, and so may the cruel feud of many
generations be slaked for ever
In his blood
Ah! would that it had been mine, mother.
It is well, as well as anything can be again.  So shall the spot where he
fell be made sacred, and fenced from rude feet, and we shall see his fair
effigy keeping his armed watch there
Art weary, my son
Only thinking how Friedel would have glowed towards these as his own
kinsmen
Then should I have cared to read of them
Let me take away the book
Thou hast read long, and it is
dark
So dark that there must surely be a snow-cloud
Snow is falling in the large flakes that our Friedel used to call
winter-butterflies
Butterflies that will swarm and shut us in from the weary world
And alack! when they go, what a turmoil it will be!  Councils in
the Rathhaus, appeals to the League, wranglings with the Markgraf, wise
saws, overweening speeches, all alike dull and dead
It will scarce be so when strength and spirit have returned, mine Ebbo
Never can life be more to me than the way to him
and I--never like him--shall miss the road without him
Gracious lady
here is a
huntsman bewildered in the hills, who has been asking shelter from the
storm that is drifting up
See to his entertainment, then, Hatto
My lady--Sir Baron
I had not come up but that this guest
seems scarce gear for us below.  He is none of the foresters of our
tract.  His hair is perfumed, his shirt is fine holland, his buff suit is
of softest skin, his baldric has a jewelled clasp, and his arblast!  It
would do my lord baron's heart good only to cast eyes on the perfect make
of that arblast!  He has a lordly tread, and a stately presence, and,
though he has a free tongue, and made friends with us as he dried his
garments, he asked after my lord like his equal
O mother, must you play the chatelaine
Who can the
fellow be?  Why did none ever so come when they would have been more
welcome
Welcomed must he be
and thy state shall be my
excuse for not tarrying longer with him than may be needful
Ebbo mine
the knight asks
to see thee either after supper, or to-morrow morn
Then a knight he is
Yea, truly, a knight truly in every look and gesture, bearing his head
like the leading stag of the herd, and yet right gracious
Gracious to you, mother, in your own hall
Ah! jealous champion, thou couldst not take offence!  It was the manner
of one free and courteous to every one, and yet with an inherent
loftiness that pervades all
Gives he no name
He calls himself Ritter Theurdank, of the suite of the late Kaisar, but
I should deem him wont rather to lead than to follow
Theurdank
I know no such name!  So, motherling,
are you going to sup?  I shall not sleep till I have seen him
Hold, dear son
See him thou must,
but let me first station Heinz and Koppel at the door with halberts, not
within earshot, but thou art so entirely defenceless
Less defenceless than when
the kinsman of Wildschloss here visited us, mother?  I see for whom thou
takest him, but let it be so; a spiritual knight would scarce wreak his
vengeance on a wounded man in his bed.  I will not have him insulted with
precautions.  If he has freely risked himself in my hands, I will as
freely risk myself in his.  Moreover, I thought he had won thy heart
Reigned over it, rather
It is but the disguise that
I suspect and mistrust.  Bid me not leave thee alone with him, my son
Nay, dear mother
the matters on which he is like to speak
will brook no presence save our own, and even that will be hard enough to
bear.  So prop me more upright!  So!  And comb out these locks somewhat
smoother.  Thanks, mother.  Now can he see whether he will choose
Eberhard of Adlerstein for friend or foe
Welcome, Herr Ritter
I am sorry we have been unable to give
you a fitter reception
No host could be more fully excused than you
I fear you have suffered much, and still
have much to suffer
My sword wound is healing fast
it is the shot in my broken
thigh that is so tedious and painful
And I dare be sworn the leeches made it worse.  I have hated all leeches
ever since they kept me three days a prisoner in a 'pothecary's shop
stinking with drugs.  Why, I have cured myself with one pitcher of water
of a raging fever, in their very despite!  How did they serve thee, my
poor boy
They poured hot oil into the wound to remove the venom of the lead
Had it been my case the lead should have been in their own brains first,
though that were scarce needed, the heavy-witted Hans Sausages.  Why
should there be more poison in lead than in steel?  I have asked all my
surgeons that question, nor ever had a reasonable answer.  Greater havoc
of warriors do they make than ever with the arquebus--ay, even when every
lanzknecht bears one
Alack
where will be room for
chivalry
Talk not old world nonsense
chivalry is in the heart,
not in the weapon.  A youth beforehand enough with the world to be
building bridges should know that, when all our troops are provided with
such an arm, then will their platoons in serried ranks be as a solid wall
breathing fire, and as impregnable as the lines of English archers with
long bows, or the phalanx of Macedon.  And, when each man bears a pistol
instead of the misericorde, his life will be far more his own
Ah
thou hast had foul experience of
these weapons
Not mine own hurt
that was but fair chance of war
I understand
it was the shot that severed the goodly
bond that was so fair to see.  Young man, none has grieved more truly
than King Max
And well he may
He has not lost merely one of his best
servants, but all the better half of another
There is still stuff enough left to make that _one_ well worth having
though I would it were more
substantial!  How didst get old Wolfgang down, boy?  He must have been a
tough morsel for slight bones like these, even when better covered than
now.  Come, tell me all.  I promised the Markgraf of Wurtemburg to look
into the matter when I came to be guest at St. Ruprecht's cloister, and I
have some small interest too with King Max
I hope
the merchants made up thy share?  These
overthrown goods are a seignorial right of one or other of you lords of
the bank
True, Herr Ritter; but we deemed it unknightly to snatch at what
travellers lost by misfortune
Freiherr Eberhard, take my word for it, while thou thus holdest, all the
arquebuses yet to be cut out of the Black Forest will not mar thy
chivalry.  Where didst get these ways of thinking
My brother was a very St. Sebastian!  My mother
Ah! her sweet wise face would have shown it, even had not poor Kasimir
of Adlerstein raved of her.  Ah! lad, thou hast crossed a case of true
love there!  Canst not brook even such a gallant stepfather
I may not
for with his last breath
Schlangenwald owned that my own father died not at the hostel, but may
now be alive as a Turkish slave
The devil
Well! that might have been a pretty
mess!  A Turkish slave, saidst thou!  What year chanced all this
matter--thy grandfather's murder and all the rest
The year before my birth
It was in the September of
1475
Ha
that was the year the
dotard Schenk got his overthrow at the fight of Rain on Sare from the
Moslem.  Some composition was made by them, and old Wolfgang was not
unlikely to have been the go-between.  So!  Say on, young knight
let us to the matter in hand.  How rose the strife that kept back
two troops from our--from the banner of the empire
Nay, I told thee I had some leechcraft.  Thou art weary, and must rest
more entirely
Good night, and the saints bless thee, brave
young knight.  Sleep well, and recover in spite of the leeches.  I cannot
afford to lose both of you
He hath done honour to our blessed one, my Ebbo; he knelt by him, and
crossed him with holy water, and when he led me from the chapel he told
me any mother in Germany might envy me my two sons even now.  Thou must
love him now, Ebbo
Love him as one loves one's loftiest model
value the old
castle the more for sheltering him
Hath he made himself known to thee
Not openly, but there is only one that he can be
Then all will be well, blessedly well
So I trust
but the bell broke our converse, and he laid me
down as tenderly as--O mother, if a father's kindness be like his, I have
truly somewhat to regain
Knew he aught of the fell bargain
Not he, of course, save that it was a year of Turkish inroads.  He will
speak more perchance to-morrow.  Mother, not a word to any one, nor let
us betray our recognition unless it be his pleasure to make himself
known
Certainly not
No, no, not till he
reveals himself
Where sleeps the guest
In the grandmother's room, which we fitted for a guest-chamber, little
thinking who our first would be
Never fear, lady; we will have a care to him
Yes, have a care
and take care all due honour is
shown to him!  Good night, Heinz
Gracious lady
never fear; I know
who the fellow is as well as you do.  I shall be at the foot of the
stairs, and woe to whoever tries to step up them past me
There is no reason to apprehend treason, Heinz, yet to be on our guard
can do no harm
Nay, lady, I could look to the gear for the oubliette if you would speak
the word
For heaven's sake, no, Heinz.  This man has come hither trusting to our
honour, and you could not do your lord a greater wrong, nor one that he
could less pardon, than by any attempt on our guest
Would that he had never eaten our bread
Vipers be
they all, and who knows what may come next
Watch, watch, Heinz; that is all
and, above all,
not a word to any one else
Not the hardiest cragsman, not my son himself
could venture
on such a morning to guide you to
Whither, gracious dame
Nay, sir, I would not utter what you would not make known
You know me then
Surely, sir, for our noble foe, whose generous trust in our honour must
win my son's heart
So
Theurdank--Dankwart--I see!  May I
ask if your son likewise smelt out the Schlangenwald
Verily, Sir Count, my Ebbo is not easily deceived.  He said our guest
could be but one man in all the empire
Then, lady, you shudder not at a man
whose kin and yours have shed so much of one another's blood
Nay, ghostly knight, I regard you as no more stained therewith than are
my sons by the deeds of their grandfather
If there were more like you, lady
deadly feuds
would soon be starved out.  May I to your son?  I have more to say to
him, and I would fain hear his views of the storm
We have been caught in snow
and hard work have we had to get
home!  Once indeed, after a bear hunt, we fully thought the castle stood
before us, and lo! it was all a cruel snow mist in that mocking shape.  I
was even about to climb our last Eagle's Step, as I thought, when behold,
it proved to be the very brink of the abyss
Ah! these ravines are well-nigh as bad as those of the Inn.  I've known
what it was to be caught on the ledge of a precipice by a sharp wind,
changing its course, mark'st thou, so swiftly that it verily tore my hold
from the rock, and had well-nigh swept me into a chasm of mighty depth.
There was nothing for it but to make the best spring I might towards the
crag on the other side, and grip for my life at my alpenstock, which by
Our Lady's grace was firmly planted, and I held on till I got breath
again, and felt for my footing on the ice-glazed rock
Ah
it sounds like a
gust of my mountain air thus let in on me
Truly it is dismal work for a lusty hunter to lie here
but soon shalt thou take thy crags again in full vigour, I hope.  How
call'st thou the deep gray lonely pool under a steep frowning crag
sharpened well-nigh to a spear point, that I passed yester afternoon
The Ptarmigan's Mere, the Red Eyrie
I remember
Ah, boy! thy
brother's flight has been higher yet.  Weep freely; fear me not.  Do I
not know what it is, when those who were over-good for earth have found
their eagle's wings, and left us here
I will not seek to comfort thee by counselling
thee to forget
I was scarce thine elder when my life
was thus rent asunder, and to hoar hairs, nay, to the grave itself, will
she be my glory and my sorrow.  Never owned I brother, but I trow ye two
were one in no common sort
Such brothers as we saw at Ulm were little like us
We were knit together so that all will begin
with me as if it were the left hand remaining alone to do it!  I am glad
that my old life may not even in shadow be renewed till after I have gone
in quest of my father
Be not over hasty in that quest
or the infidels may
chance to gain two Freiherren instead of one.  Hast any designs
Shame
that these Eastern locusts, these ravening
hounds, should prey unmolested on the fairest lands of the earth, and our
German nobles lie here like swine, grunting and squealing over the
plunder they grub up from one another, deaf to any summons from heaven or
earth!  Did not Heaven's own voice speak in thunder this last year, even
in November, hurling the mighty thunderbolt of Alsace, an ell long,
weighing two hundred and fifteen pounds?  Did I not cause it to be hung
up in the church of Encisheim, as a witness and warning of the plagues
that hang over us?  But no, nothing will quicken them from their sloth
and drunkenness till the foe are at their doors; and, if a man arise of
different mould, with some heart for the knightly, the good, and the
true, then they kill him for me!  But thou, Adlerstein, this pious quest
over, thou wilt return to me.  Thou hast head to think and heart to feel
for the shame and woe of this misguided land
I trust so, my lord
Truly, I have suffered bitterly for
pursuing my own quarrel rather than the crusade
I meant not thee
Thy bridge is a benefit to
me, as much as, or more than, ever it can be to thee.  Dost know Italian?
There is something of Italy in thine eye
My mother's mother was Italian, my lord; but she died so early that her
language has not descended to my mother or myself
Thou shouldst learn it.  It will be pastime while thou art bed-fast, and
serve thee well in dealing with the Moslem.  Moreover, I may have work
for thee in Welschland.  Books?  I will send thee books.  There is the
whole chronicle of Karl the Great, and all his Palsgrafen, by Pulci and
Boiardo, a brave Count and gentleman himself, governor of Reggio, and
worthy to sing of deeds of arms; so choice, too, as to the names of his
heroes, that they say he caused his church bells to be rung when he had
found one for Rodomonte, his infidel Hector.  He has shown up Roland as a
love-sick knight, though, which is out of all accord with Archbishop
Turpin.  Wilt have him
When we were together, we used to love tales of chivalry
Ah!  Or wilt have the stern old Ghibelline Florentine, who explored the
three realms of the departed?  Deep lore, and well-nigh unsearchable, is
his; but I love him for the sake of his Beatrice, who guided him.  May we
find such guides in our day
I have heard of him
If he will tell me where my Friedel
walks in light, then, my lord, I would read him with all my heart
Or wouldst thou have rare Franciscus Petrarca?  I wot thou art too young
as yet for the yearnings of his sonnets, but their voice is sweet to the
bereft heart
Not pallid, but yet whiter than the snow
    By wind unstirred that on a hillside lies;
    Rest seemed as on a weary frame to grow,
    A gentle slumber pressed her lovely eyes
Ah
it is ever to me as though the poet had
watched in that chamber at Ghent
Ha! what means this
Peace, Sir Baron
You know nothing of it.  We
are not going to lose you as well as your brother, and we mean to see how
this knight likes to serve as a hostage instead of opening the gates as a
traitor spy.  On him, Koppel! it is thy right
Hands off! at your peril, villains
By your leave, Herr Freiherr
this is no concern of yours.  While you cannot guard yourself
or my lady, it is our part to do so.  I tell you his minions are on their
way to surprise the castle
Sir Count, is this just, is this honourable,
thus to return my son's welcome, in his helpless condition
Mother, are you likewise distracted
What is all this
madness
Alas, my son, it is no frenzy!  There are armed men coming up the
Eagle's Stairs on the one hand and by the Gemsbock's Pass on the other
But not a hair of your head shall they hurt, lady
This
fellow's limbs shall be thrown to them over the battlements.  On,
Koppel
Off, Koppel
Would you brand me with shame for ever?
Were he all the Schlangenwalds in one, he should go as freely as he came;
but he is no more Schlangenwald than I am
He has deceived you, my lord
My lady's own letter to
Schlangenwald was in his chamber.  'Tis a treacherous disguise
Fool that thou art
I know this gentleman well.  I knew
him at Ulm.  Those who meet him here mean me no ill.  Open the gates and
receive them honourably!  Mother, mother, trust me, all is well.  I know
what I am saying
My lord has his fancies
I'll not be balked of my
right of vengeance for his scruples!  Will he swear that this fellow is
what he calls himself
I swear
that he is a true loyal knight, well known
to me
Swear it distinctly, Sir Baron
We have all too deep a
debt of vengeance to let off any one who comes here lurking in the
interest of our foe.  Swear that this is Theurdank, or we send his head
to greet his friends
I cannot swear that his real name is Theurdank
but this I swear, that he is neither friend nor fosterer of
Schlangenwald, that I know him, and I had rather die than that the
slightest indignity were offered him
Sir
if they try to lay hands on you, strike my death-blow
Now or never
Never, so please you
What if your young lord
could not forswear himself that my name is Theurdank!  Are you foes to
all the world save Theurdank
No masking
Tell your true name as an honest
man, and we will judge whether you be friend or foe
My name is a mouthful, as your master knows
I was baptized Maximilianus; Archduke of
Austria, by birth; by choice of the Germans, King of the Romans
The Kaisar
That Kaisar had done him no harm
Ah, then it was true!  Where is he?  Gone
No, in the hall below, busy with letters they have brought him.  Lie
still, my boy; he has done thee quite enough damage for one day
But, mother, what are you saying!  Something disloyal, was it not
Well, Ebbo, I was very angry that he should have half killed you when he
could so easily have spoken one word.  Heaven forgive me if I did wrong,
but I could not help it
Did _he_ forgive you, mother
He--oh yes.  To do him justice he was greatly concerned; devised ways of
restoring thee, and now has promised not to come near thee again without
my leave
And is he displeased with me?  Those cowardly vindictive rascals, to
fall on him, and set me at nought!  Before him, too
Nay, Ebbo, he thought thy part most gallant.  I heard him say so, not
only to me, but below stairs--both wise and true.  Thou didst know him
then
From the first glance of his princely eye--the first of his keen smiles.
I had seen him disguised before.  I thought you knew him too, mother; I
never guessed that your mind was running on Schlangenwald when we talked
at cross purposes last night
Would that I had; but though I breathed no word openly, I encouraged
Heinz's precautions.  My boy, I could not help it; my heart would tremble
for my only one, and I saw he could not be what he seemed
And what doth he here?  Who were the men who were advancing
They were the followers he had left at St. Ruprecht's, and likewise
Master Schleiermacher and Sir Kasimir of Wildschloss
Ha
What--he had not told thee
No.  He knew that I knew him, was at no pains to disguise himself, yet
evidently meant me to treat him as a private knight.  But what brought
Wildschloss here
It seems
that, on the return from Carinthia, the
Kaisar expressed his intention of slipping away from his army in his own
strange fashion, and himself inquiring into the matter of the Ford.  So
he took with him his own personal followers, the new Graf von
Schlangenwald, Herr Kasimir, and Master Schleiermacher.  The others he
sent to Schlangenwald; he himself lodged at St. Ruprecht's, appointing
that Sir Kasimir should meet him there this morning.  From the convent he
started on a chamois hunt, and made his way hither; but, when the snow
came on, and he returned not, his followers became uneasy, and came in
search of him
Ah
he meant to intercede for Wildschloss--it might be he
would have tried his power.  No, for that he is too generous.  How looked
Wildschloss, mother
How could I tell how any one looked save thee, my poor wan boy?  Thou
art paler than ever!  I cannot have any king or kaisar of them all come
to trouble thee
Nay, motherling, there is much more trouble and unrest to me in not
knowing how my king will treat us after such a requital!  Prithee let him
know that I am at his service
Yea, truly, fair dame, I know thou wouldst sooner trust Schlangenwald
himself than me alone with thy charge.  How goes it, my true knight
Well, right well, my liege
save for my shame and grief
Thou art the last to be ashamed for that
Have I never seen my faithful vassals more bent on their own feuds than
on my word?--I who reign over a set of kings, who brook no will but their
own
And may we ask your pardon
not only for ourselves, but for
the misguided men-at-arms
What! the grewsome giant that was prepared with the axe, and the honest
lad that wanted to do his duty by his father?  I honour that lad,
Freiherr; I would enrol him in my guard, but that probably he is better
off here than with _Massimiliano pochi danari_, as the Italians call me.
But what I came hither to say was this
thou art
sincere in desiring reconciliation with the house of Schlangenwald
With all my heart
do I loathe the miserable debt of blood
for blood
And
Graf Dankwart is of like mind.  Bred from
pagedom in his Prussian commandery, he has never been exposed to the
irritations that have fed the spirit of strife, and he will be thankful
to lay it aside.  The question next is how to solemnize this
reconciliation, ere your retainers on one side or the other do something
to set you by the ears together again, which, judging by this morning's
work, is not improbable
Alas! no
while I am laid by
Had you both been in our camp, you should have sworn friendship in my
chapel.  Now must Dankwart come hither to thee, as I trow he had best do,
while I am here to keep the peace.  See, friend Ebbo, we will have him
here to-morrow; thy chaplain shall deck the altar here, the Father Abbot
shall say mass, and ye shall swear peace and brotherhood before me.
And
I shall know how to trust thine
oaths as of one who sets the fear of God above that of his king
Who goes there?  I am not asleep
It is your kinsman, Freiherr
I come by your
mother's leave
Welcome, Sir Cousin
You come to
find everything changed
I have knelt in the chapel
And he loved you better than I
Your jealousy of me was a providential thing, for which all may be
thankful
yet it is no small thing to lose
the hope of so many years!  However, young Baron, I have grave matter for
your consideration.  Know you the service on which I am to be sent?  The
Kaisar deems that the Armenians or some of the Christian nations on the
skirts of the Ottoman empire might be made our allies, and attack the
Turk in his rear.  I am chosen as his envoy, and shall sail so soon as I
can make my way to Venice.  I only knew of the appointment since I came
hither, he having been led thereto by letters brought him this day; and
mayhap by the downfall of my hopes.  He was peremptory, as his mood is,
and seemed to think it no small favour
And meantime, what of my poor child?  There she is in the
cloister at Ulm, but an inheritance is a very mill-stone round the neck
of an orphan maid.  That insolent fellow, Lassla von Trautbach, hath
already demanded to espouse the poor babe; he--a blood-stained, dicing,
drunken rover, with whom I would not trust a dog that I loved!  Yet my
death would place her at the disposal of his father, who would give her
at once to him.  Nay, even his aunt, the abbess, will believe nothing
against him, and hath even striven with me to have her betrothed at once.
On the barest rumour of my death will they wed the poor little thing, and
then woe to her, and woe to my vassals
The King
Surely she might be made his ward
Young man
he may well have won your heart.  As friend, when one is at
his side, none can be so winning, or so sincere as he; but with all his
brilliant gifts, he says truly of himself that he is a mere reckless
huntsman.  To-day, while I am with him, he would give me half Austria, or
fight single-handed in my cause or Thekla's.  Next month, when I am out
of sight, comes Trautbach, just when his head is full of keeping the
French out of Italy, or reforming the Church, or beating the Turk, or
parcelling the empire into circles, or, maybe, of a new touch-hole for a
cannon--nay, of a flower-garden, or of walking into a lion's den.  He just
says, 'Yea, well,' to be rid of the importunity, and all is over with my
poor little maiden.  Hare-brained and bewildered with schemes has he been
as Romish King--how will it be with him as Kaisar?  It is but of his
wonted madness that he is here at all, when his Austrian states must be
all astray for want of him.  No, no; I would rather make a weathercock
guardian to my daughter.  You yourself are the only guard to whom I can
safely intrust her
My sword as knight and kinsman
No, no; 'tis no matter of errant knight or distressed damsel.  That is
King Max's own line
There is only one way in which you can save her,
and that is as her husband
My first wish for my
child
was to see her brought up by that peerless lady below
stairs.  The saints--in pity to one so like themselves--spared her the
distress our union would have brought her.  Now, it would be vain to
place my little Thekla in her care, for Trautbach would easily feign my
death, and claim his niece, nor are you of age to be made her guardian as
head of our house.  But, if this marriage rite were solemnized, then
would her person and lands alike be yours, and I could leave her with an
easy heart
But
what can I do?  They say I
shall not walk for many weeks to come.  And, even if I could, I am so
young--I have so blundered in my dealings with my own mountaineers, and
with this fatal bridge--how should I manage such estates as yours?  Some
better
Look you, Ebbo
you have erred--you have been hasty;
but tell me where to find another youth, whose strongest purpose was as
wise as your errors, or who cared for others' good more than for his own
violence and vainglory?  Brief as your time has been, one knows when one
is on your bounds by the aspect of your serfs, the soundness of their
dwellings, the prosperity of their crops and cattle above all, by their
face and tone if one asks for their lord
Ah! it was Friedel they loved.  They scarce knew me from Friedel
Such as you are, with all the blunders you have made and will make, you
are the only youth I know to whom I could intrust my child or my lands.
The old Wildschloss castle is a male fief, and would return to you, but
there are domains since granted that will cause intolerable trouble and
strife, unless you and my poor little heiress are united.  As for age,
you are
Eighteen next Easter
Then there are scarce eleven years between you.  You will find the
little one a blooming bride when your first deeds in arms have been
fought out
And, if my mother trains her up
she will be
all the better daughter to her.  But, Sir Cousin, you know I too must be
going.  So soon as I can brook the saddle, I must seek out and ransom my
father
That is like to be a far shorter and safer journey than mine.  The
Genoese and Venetians understand traffic with the infidels for their
captives, and only by your own fault could you get into danger.  Even at
the worst, should mishap befall you, you could so order matters as to
leave your girl-widow in your mother's charge
Then
she would still have one left to love and cherish
her.  Sir Kasimir, it is well; though, if you knew me without my Friedel,
you would repent of your bargain
Thanks from my heart
but you need not be concerned.
You have never been over-friendly with me even with Friedel at your side.
But to business, my son.  You will endure that title from me now?  My
time is short
What would you have me do?  Shall I send the little one a betrothal
ring, and ride to Ulm to wed and fetch her home in spring
That may hardly serve.  These kinsmen would have seized on her and the
castle long ere that time.  The only safety is the making wedlock as fast
as it can be made with a child of such tender years.  Mine is the only
power that can make the abbess give her up, and therefore will I ride
this moonlight night to Ulm, bring the little one back with me by the
time the reconciliation be concluded, and then shall ye be wed by the
Abbot of St. Ruprecht's, with the Kaisar for a witness, and thus will the
knot be too strong for the Trautbachs to untie
To-morrow
Knows my mother
I go to speak with her at once.  The Kaisar's consent I have, as he
says, 'If we have one vassal who has common sense and honesty, let us
make the most of him.'  Ah! my son, I shall return to see you his
counsellor and friend
Nay, lady
Neither lands
nor honours can weigh down the up-springing of true love
I know what you would say, lady; your son hardly knows as yet how much
is asked of him, and the little maid, to whom he vows his heart, is
over-young to secure it.  But, lady, I have often observed that men,
whose family affections are as deep and fervent as your son's are for you
and his brother, seldom have wandering passions, but that their love
flows deep and steady in the channels prepared for it.  Let your young
Freiherr regard this damsel as his own, and you will see he will love her
as such
I trust so, my liege
Moreover, if she turn out like the spiteful Trautbach folk
plenty of holes can be picked in a
baby-wedding.  No fear of its over-firmness.  I never saw one come to
good; only he must keep firm hold on the lands
you have let me sleep too long
Thou didst wake too long, I fear me
I hoped you knew it not.  Yes, my wound throbbed sore, and the wonders
of the day whirled round my brain like the wild huntsman's chase
And, cruel boy, thou didst not call to me
What, with such a yesterday, and such a morrow for you? while, chance
what may, I can but lie still.  I thought I must call, if I were still so
wretched, when the last moonbeam faded; but, behold, sleep came, and
therewith my Friedel sat by me, and has sung songs of peace ever since
And hath lulled thee to content, dear son
Content as the echo of his voice and the fulfilment of his hope can make
me
Gay braveries for me, while my Friedel is not yet in his
resting-place?  Here--the black velvet cloak
Alas, Ebbo! it makes thee look more of a corpse than a bridegroom.  Thou
wilt scare thy poor little spouse.  Ah! it was not thus I had fancied
myself decking thee for thy wedding
Poor little one
If, as your uncle says, mourning is the
seed of joy, this bridal should prove a gladsome one!  But let her prove
a loving child to you, and honour my Friedel's memory, then shall I love
her well.  Do not fear, motherling; with the roots of hatred and jealousy
taken out of the heart, even sorrow is such peace that it is almost joy
We have brought you together, Herr Graff von
Schlangenwald, and Herr Freiherr von Adlerstein, because ye have given us
reason to believe you willing to lay aside the remembrance of the foul
and deadly strifes of your forefathers, and to live as good Christians in
friendship and brotherhood
Sire, it is true
It is true
That is well
Nor can our reign better begin than
by the closing of a breach that has cost the land some of its bravest
sons.  Dankwart von Schlangenwald, art thou willing to pardon the heir of
Adlerstein for having slain thy father in free and honourable combat, as
well as, doubtless, for other deeds of his ancestors, more than I know or
can specify
Yea, truly; I pardon him, my liege, as befits my vow
And thou, Eberhard von Adlerstein, dost thou put from thee vengeance for
thy twin brother's death, and all the other wrongs that thine house has
suffered
I put revenge from me for ever
Ye agree, further, then, instead of striving as to your rights to the
piece of meadow called the Debateable Strand, and to the wrecks of
burthens there cast up by the stream, ye will unite with the citizens of
Ulm in building a bridge over the Braunwasser, where, your mutual
portions thereof being decided by the Swabian League, toll may be taken
from all vehicles and beasts passing there over
We agree
And I, also, on behalf of the two guilds of Ulm
Likewise
for avoidance of debate, and to
consecrate the spot that has caused so much contention, ye will jointly
erect a church, where may be buried both the relatives who fell in the
late unhappy skirmish, and where ye will endow a perpetual mass for their
souls, and those of others of your two races
Thereto I willingly agree
I consent
And in token of amity I here tear up and burn all the feuds of
Adlerstein
Then, holy Father Abbot
let us ratify this happy and
Christian reconciliation by the blessed sacrifice of peace, over which
these two faithful knights shall unite in swearing good-will and
brotherhood
half passion and half awe
But
I am told that a
she-bear wons in a den on yonder crag, between the pass you call the
Gemsbock's and the Schlangenwald valley.  They told me the right in it
had never been decided, and I have not been up myself.  To say truth, I
have lived so long in the sand plains as to have lost my mountain legs,
and I hesitated to see if a hunter could mount thither for fear of fresh
offence; but, if she bide there till Rogation-tide, it will be ill for
the lambs
Is that all
Then will I, a neutral, kill your bear
for you, gentlemen, so that neither need transgress this new crag of
debate.  I'll go down and look at your bear spears, friend Ebbo, and be
ready so soon as Kasimir has done with his bridal
That crag
Little good will it do either of us.  Sire, it
is a mere wall of sloping rock, slippery as ice, and with only a stone or
matting of ivy here and there to serve as foothold
Where bear can go, man can go
Oh, yes!  We have been there, craving your pardon, Herr Graf
after a dead chamois that rolled into a cleft, but it is the worst
crag on all the hill, and the frost will make it slippery.  Sire, if you
do venture it, I conjure you to take Koppel, and climb by the rocks from
the left, not the right, which looks easiest.  The yellow rock, with a
face like a man's, is the safer; but ach, it is fearful for one who knows
not the rocks
If I know not the rocks, all true German rocks know me
And, if my Margot be not
soon back on my hands, I shall give the French credit
Why, this bride is as
long of busking her as if she were a beauty of seventeen!  I must be off
to my Lady Bearess
Where is the beautiful young knight?  That's a lady going to take the
veil lying under the pall
You look rather like a little nun yourself
but we must take each other for such as we
are
You once said you would be my wife
Ah, but then there were two of you, and you were all shining bright
Jewels are not plenty with us
Must we borrow
None but this!  Unlucky
There
the little elf of a bride can get her
finger into this lesser one and you--verily this largest will fit, and the
goldsmith can beat it out when needed.  So on with you in St. Hubert's
name, Father Abbot
Go away with you!  I know I've never married _you_
The better for my eyes
My Lady Bearess is like to prove the more courteous bride!
Fare thee well, Sir Bridegroom
Heaven give thee joy of this day's work, and of thy
faithful little fury.  I'll send her the bearskin as her meetest
wedding-gift
Have a care, Lucas
I fear me you are chiselling
away too much.  It must be a softer, more rounded face than mine has
become; and, above all, let it not catch any saddened look.  Keep that
air of solemn waiting in glad hope, as though he saw the dawn through his
closed eyelids, and were about to take up his song again
Verily, Herr Freiherr, now the likeness is so far forward, the actual
sight of you may lead me to mar it rather than mend
So is it well that this should be the last sitting.  I am to set forth
for Genoa in another week.  If I cannot get letters from the Kaisar, I
shall go in search of him, that he may see that my lameness is no more an
impediment
Little lady
is this the Debateable Ford
No; now it is the Friendly Bridge
And what is yonder
castle
Schloss Adlerstein
And you are the little lady of Adlerstein Wildschloss
Yes
You are a holy
pilgrim!  Come up to the castle for supper and rest
Herr Freiherr,
here is a holy pilgrim, weary and hungry.  Let us take him home to the
mother
Did he take thee for a wild elf
Dost need a night's lodging,
holy palmer?  My mother will make thee welcome, if thou canst climb as
high as the castle yonder
See I yonder the bearing of Schlangenwald
Even so.  Schloss Schlangenwald is about a league further on, and thou
wilt find a kind reception there, if thither thou art bent
Is that Graff Wolfgang's tomb
What was his end
He fell in a skirmish
By whose hand
By mine
Ha
So thou art not bound for
Schlangenwald
I would to the village, so please you--to the shrine of the Blessed
Friedmund
Nay, at this rate thou wilt not be there till midnight
thou canst never brook our sharp
stones!  See, Thekla, do thou ride on with Heinz to tell the mother I am
bringing her a holy pilgrim to tend.  And thou, good man, mount my old
gray.  Fear not; she is steady and sure-footed, and hath of late been
used to a lame rider.  Ah! that is well.  Thou hast been in the saddle
before
But what is this
A road to the castle up here
Yes, we find it a great convenience.  Thou art surely from these parts
I was a man-at-arms in the service of the Baron
What!--of my grandfather
No
Of old Freiherr Eberhard.  Not of any of the Wildschloss
crew
But I am not a Wildschloss!  I am grandson to Freiherr Eberhard!  Oh,
wast thou with him and my father when they were set upon in the hostel
The son of
Christina
And you
have had vengeance on them!  When--how--where
Last harvest-tide--at the Debateable Strand
It was a meeting in full
career--lances broken, sword-stroke on either hand.  I was sore wounded,
but my sword went through his collar-bone
Well struck! good stroke
And with
that sword
With this sword.  Didst know it
It is
well.  You and that blade have paid off the score.  I should be content.
Let me dismount.  I know my way to the hermitage
Nay, what is this
thou must have rest and food.  The
hermitage is empty, scarce habitable.  My mother will not be balked of
the care of thy bleeding feet
But let me go, ere I bring evil on you all.  I can pray up there, and
save my soul, but I cannot see it all
See what
There may
be changes, but an old faithful follower of my father's must ever be
welcome
Not when his wife has taken a new lord
and he a Wildschloss!  Young man, I could have pardoned aught else
I know not who you may be who talk of pardoning my lady-mother
but new lord she has neither taken nor will take.  She has refused
every offer; and, now that Schlangenwald with his last breath confessed
that he slew not my father, but sold him to the Turks, I have been only
awaiting recovery from my wound to go in search of him
Who then is yonder child, who told me she was Wildschloss
That child
is my wife,
the daughter of Wildschloss, who prayed me to espouse her thus early,
that so my mother might bring her up
This pilgrim is one of
the old lanzknechts of my grandfather's time.  I wonder whether you or
Heinz will know him.  One of the old sort--supremely discontented at
change
And thou hast walked up, and wearied thyself
A rest will soon cure that
Unchanged! unchanged
What is this
What are you doing to the
lady
Hush! hush, Ebbo
It is thy father!  On thy
knees!  Thy father is come!  It is our son, my own lord.  Oh, embrace
him!  Kneel to him, Ebbo
Hold, mother
Is
it certain that this is indeed my father
Oh, Ebbo
how
could I not be sure?  I know him!  I feel it!  Oh, my lord, bear with
him.  It is his wont to be so loving!  Ebbo, cannot you see it is
himself
The young fellow is right
I will answer
all he may demand
Forgive me
forgive me
Ah!
Stine, Stine, thou alone art the same
My son!  Oh! my beautiful twins!
Our son!  Oh, see him, dear lord
Pardon, honoured father, and your blessing
Up, then!  The slayer of Schlangenwald kneeling!
Ah!  Stine, I knew thy little head was wondrous wise, but I little
thought thou wouldst breed him up to avenge us on old Wolfgang!  So
slender a lad too!  Ha!  Schneiderlein, old rogue, I knew thee
So thou didst get home safe
Ay, my lord; though, if I left you alive, never more will I call a man
dead
Worse luck for me--till now
The gyves
Little deemed I that they would ever
come under thy tender hands
So they never burnt thee for a witch after all,
little one?  I thought my mother would never keep her hands off thee, and
used to fancy I heard the crackling of the flame
She spared me for my children's sake
and truly Heaven
has been very good to us, but never so much as now.  My dear lord, will
it weary thee too much to come to the castle chapel and give thanks
With all my heart
I would go even on my
knees.  We were not without masses even in Tunis; but, when Italian and
Spaniard would be ransomed, and there was no mind of the German, I little
thought I should ever sing Brother Lambert's psalm about turning our
captivity as rivers in the south
Ah,
Friedel!  Friedel!  Would that we had changed places!  Thou wouldst brook
it better.  At least thou didst never know what it is to be lonely
Herr Baron
What is it, Thekla
Art sent to call me
No; only I saw that you stayed here all alone
No; only I saw that you stayed here all alone,' she said,
                     clasping her hands
Must I not be alone, child
Here lies my brother.
My mother has her husband again
But you have me
Indeed
I'll never be afraid of the helmet again, if only you will not lay
down your head there, and say you are alone
Never, Thekla! while you are my little wife
What are you going to do
To make thee gird on thine own knight's sword
Friedel
thou wouldst give
me thine.  Let me take up thy temper with it, thine open-hearted love and
humility
Thekla, never speak of what
I said just now--not even to the mother.  Remember, it is thy husband's
first secret
You are like to use it more than I,--nay, you have used it to some
purpose
Yet must I keep mine old comrade at least a little
while.  Wife, son, sword, should make one feel the same man again, but it
is all too wonderful
Alas! they had no opportunity
Gulden were scarce, or were
all in Kaisar Friedrich's great chest; the ransoms could not be raised,
and all died in captivity.  I heard about it when I was at Wurms last
month
The boy at Wurms
I had to be there about matters concerning the Wildschloss lands and the
bridge
and both Dankwart von Schlangenwald and I made
special inquiries about that company in case you should have shared their
fate.  I hoped to have set forth at that time, but the Kaisar said I was
still too lame, and refused me license, or letters to the Sultan
You would not have found me
And, by the
holy stone of Nicaea
I thought by that time that the
infidels had the advantage of us in good-will and friendliness; but, when
they told me women had no souls at all, no more than a horse or dog, I
knew it was but an empty dream of a religion; for did I not know that my
little Ermentrude, and thou, Stine, had finer, clearer, wiser souls than
ever a man I had known?  'Nay, nay,' quoth I, 'I'll cast in my lot where
I may meet my wife hereafter, should I never see her here
And, if it were thus with a saint like him, I thought, what must it be
with a rough freebooting godless sinner such as I had been?  See
that is what he left me
when he died, and what I meant to have been telling for ever up in the
hermitage
He died, then
Ay--he died on the shore of Corsica, while most of the dogs were off
harrying a village inland, and we had a sort of respite, or I trow he
would have rowed till his last gasp.  How he prayed for the poor wretches
they were gone to attack!--ay, and for all of us--for me also--There's
enough of it.  Such talk skills not now
Ha!--what
Truly I knew him, Merchant Gian as we
used to call him; but you twang off his name as they speak it in his own
stately city
Ebbo learnt the Italian tongue this winter from our
chaplain, who had studied at Bologna.  He was told it would aid in his
quest of you
Tell me not
the Junker is worse than a priest!  And yet he killed old Wolfgang!  But
what of Gian?  Hold,--did not he, when I was with him at Genoa, tell me a
story of being put into a dungeon in a mountain fortress in Germany, and
released by a pair of young lads with eyes beaming in the sunrise, who
vanished just as they brought him to a cloister?  Nay, he deemed it a
miracle of the saints, and hung up a votive picture thereof at the shrine
of the holy Cosmo and Damian
He was not so far wrong in deeming _one_ of the lads near of kin to the
holy ones
So!  How would a
lad have fared who so acted in my time?  My poor old mother!  She must
have been changed indeed not to have scourged him till he had no strength
to cry out
He was my prisoner
I had the
right
Ah, well! the Junker has always been master here, and I never
Nay, sir, you are the only lord and master, and I
stand ready to be the first to obey you
You!  A fine young book-learned scholar, already knighted, and with all
these Wildschloss lands too
Reach hither your hand, boy
Ah
it always grieved your mother that
the boys would resemble me and mine.  But, when daylight comes, Ebbo will
show you that he has not lost the old German strength
No doubt--no doubt
since he has slain
Schlangenwald; and, if the former state of things be at an end, the less
he takes after the ancient stock the better.  But I am an old man now,
Stine, though thou look'st fair and fresh as ever, and I do not know what
to make of these things.  White napery on the table; glass drinking
things;--nay, were it not for thee and the Schneiderlein, I should not
know I was at home
The name--the name
The name?  Gian was wont to make bad work of our honest German names,
but I tried to learn this--being so beholden to him.  I even caused it to
be spelt over to me, but my letters long ago went from me.  It seems to
me that the man is a knight-errant, like those of thy ballads, Stine--one
Ritter Theur--Theur
Theurdank
Ay, Theurdank.  What, you know him?  There is nothing you and your
mother don't know, I believe
Know him!  Father, he is our greatest and noblest!  He has been kind to
me beyond description.  He is the Kaisar!  Now I see why he had that
strange arch look which so vexed me when he forbade me on my allegiance
to set forth till my lameness should be gone!  Long ago had he asked me
all about Gian Battista.  To him he must have written
The Kaisar
Nay, the poor fellows I left in Turkey
ever said he was too close of fist for them to have hope from him
Oh! that was old Kaisar Friedrich.  This is our own gallant Maximilian--a
knight as true and brave as ever was paladin
and most
truly loving and prizing our Ebbo
And yet I wish--I wish
that he had let me win my father's
liberty for myself
Yea, well
there spoke the Adlerstein.  We never were
wont to be beholden to king or kaisar
Nay
it is true that I deserved it not.  Nay, Sir Father, it is well.  You
owe your freedom in very truth to the son you have not known.  It was he
who treasured up the thought of the captive German described by the
merchant, and even dreamt of it, while never doubting of your death; it
was he who caught up Schlangenwald's first hint that you lived, while I,
in my pride, passed it by as merely meant to perplex me; it was he who
had formed an absolute purpose of obtaining some certainty; and at last,
when my impetuosity had brought on the fatal battle, it was he who bought
with his own life the avowal of your captivity.  I had hoped to have
fulfilled Friedel's trust, and to have redeemed my own backwardness; but
it is not to be.  While I was yet lying helpless on my bed, the Emperor
has taken it out of my power.  Mother, you receive him from Friedel's
hands, after all
And well am I thankful that so it should be
Ah,
Ebbo! sorely should I have pined with anxiety when thou wast gone.  And
thy father knows that thou hadst the full purpose
Yea, I know it
and, after all, small blame to him
even if he had not.  He never saw me, and light grieves the heart for
what the eye hath not seen
But
since the Romish king freed you, dear lord, cared
he not better for your journey than to let you come in this forlorn
plight
By main strength
He was a loose-limbed, awkward fellow
less strong than he
looked
Not only that, Sir
but old iron is not a whit stronger than new steel, though
the one looks full of might, and you would think the other but a toy
And what have you done with the rogues' heads
I looked to see them on your spears.  Or have you hung them
Not so, Sir
I sent the men off to Stuttgard with an
escort.  I dislike doing execution ourselves; it makes the men so
lawless.  Besides, this farmer was Schlangenwalder
And yet he came to you for redress
Yes, for Sir Dankwart is at his commandery, and he and I agreed to look
after each other's lands
Look you here, fair son
these
things are all past me.  I'll have none of them.  You and your Kaisar
understand one another, and your homage is paid.  It boots not changing
all for an old fellow that is but come home to die
Nay, father, it is in the order of things that you should be lord here
I never was lord here, and, what is more, I would not, and could not be.
Son, I marked you yesterday.  You are master as never was my poor father,
with all the bawling and blows that used to rule the house, while these
fellows mind you at a word, in a voice as quiet as your mother's.
Besides, what should I do with all these mills and bridges of yours, and
Diets, and Leagues, and councils enough to addle a man's brain?  No, no;
I could once slay a bear, or strike a fair stroke at a Schlangenwalder,
but even they got the better of me, and I am good for nothing now but to
save my soul.  I had thought to do it as a hermit up there; but my little
Christina thinks the saints will be just as well pleased if I tell my
beads here, with her to help me, and I know that way I shall not make so
many mistakes.  So, young Sir, if you can give the old man a corner of
the hearth while he lives, he will never interfere with you.  And, maybe,
if the castle were in jeopardy in your absence, with that new-fangled
road up to it, he could tell the fellows how to hold it out
Sir--dear father
this is not a fit state of
things.  I will spare you all trouble and care; only make me not
undutiful; take your own place.  Mother, convince him
No, my son
your mother sees what is best for me.
I only want to be left to her to rest a little while, and repent of my
sinful life.  As Heinz says, the rusty old iron must lie by while the new
steel does the work.  It is quiet that I need.  It is joy enough for me
to see what she has made you, and all around.  Ah!  Stine, my white dove,
I knew thine was a wise head; but when I left thee, gentle little
frightened, fluttering thing, how little could I have thought that all
alone, unaided, thou wouldst have kept that little head above water, and
made thy son work out all these changes--thy doing--and so I know they are
good and seemly.  I see thou hast made him clerkly, quick-witted, and yet
a good knight.  Ah! thou didst tell me oft that our lonely pride was not
high nor worthy fame.  Stine, how didst do it
I did it not, dear husband; God did it for me.  He gave the boys the
loving, true tempers that worked out the rest!  He shielded them and me
in our days of peril
Yes, father
Providence guarded us; but, above all, our
chief blessing has been the mother who has made one of us a holy saint,
and taught the other to seek after him!  Father, I am glad you see how
great has been the work of the Dove you brought to the Eagle's Nest
dear grandmother
mid-day eating
No, motherling
I
signed it not; I will tell you all by and by
So it was as we feared, and this Schmalkaldic League did not suit thy
sense of loyalty, my son
No, mother.  I ever feared that further pressure would drive our friends
beyond the line where begin schism and rebellion; and it seems to me that
the moment is come when I must hold me still, or transgress mine own
sense of duty.  I must endure the displeasure of many I love and
respect
Surely, my son, they have known you too long and too well not to respect
your motives, and know that conscience is first with you
Scarce may such confidence be looked for, mother, from the most part,
who esteem every man a traitor to the cause if he defend it not precisely
in the fashion of their own party.  But I hear that the King of France
has offered himself as an ally, and that Dr. Luther, together with others
of our best divines, have thereby been startled into doubts of the
lawfulness of the League
And what think you of doing, my son
I shall endeavour to wait until such time as the much-needed General
Council may proclaim the ancient truth, and enable us to avouch it
without disunion.  Into schism I _will_ not be drawn.  I have held truth
all my life in the Church, nor will I part from her now.  If intrigues
again should prevail, then, Heaven help us!  Meantime, mother, the best
we can, as has ever been your war-cry
And much has been won for us.  Here are the little maidens, who, save
Vittoria, would never have been scholars, reading the Holy Word daily in
their own tongue
Ach, I had not told you, mother!  I have the Court Secretary's answer
this day about that command in the Kaisar's guards that my dear old
master had promised to his godson
Another put-off with Flemish courtesy, I see by thy face, Ebbo
Not quite that, mother.  The command is ready for the Baron Friedmund
Maximilianus von Adlerstein Wildschloss, and all the rest of it, on the
understanding that he has been bred up free from all taint of the new
doctrine
New?  Nay, it is the oldest of all doctrine
Even so.  As I ever said, Dr. Luther hath been setting forth in greater
clearness and fulness what our blessed Friedel and I learnt at your knee,
and my young ones have learnt from babyhood of the true Catholic
doctrine.  Yet I may not call my son's faith such as the Kaisar's Spanish
conscience-keepers would have it, and so the boy must e'en tarry at home
till there be work for his stout arm to do
He seems little disappointed.  His laugh comes ringing the loudest of
all
The Junker is more of a boy at two-and-twenty than I ever recollect
myself!  He lacks not sense nor wit, but a fray or a feast, a chase or a
dance, seem to suffice him at an age when I had long been dwelling on
matters of moment
Thou wast left to be thine own pilot; he is but one of thy gay crew, and
thus even these stirring times touch him not so deeply as thou wert
affected by thine own choice in life between disorderly freedom and
honourable restraint
I thought of that choice to-day, mother, as I crossed the bridge and
looked at the church; and more than ever thankful did I feel that our
blessed Friedel, having aided me over that one decisive pass, was laid to
rest, his tender spirit unvexed by the shocks and divisions that have
wrenched me hither and thither
Nay; not hither and thither.  Ever hadst thou a resolute purpose and
aim
Ever failed in by my own error or that of others--What, thou nestling
here, my little Vittoria, away from all yonder prattle
Dear father, if I may, I love far best to hear you and the grandmother
talk
Hear the child!  She alone hath your face, mother, or Friedel's eyes!
Is it that thou wouldst be like thy noble Roman godmother, the Marchesa
di Pescara, that makes thee seek our grave company, little one
I always long to hear you talk of her, and of the Italian days, dear
father, and how you won this noble jewel of yours
Ah, child, that was before those times!  It was the gift of good Kaisar
Max at his godson's christening, when he filled your sweet mother with
pretty spite by persuading her that it was a little golden bear-skin
Tell her how you had gained it, my son
By vapouring, child; and by the dull pride of my neighbours.  Heard'st
thou never of the siege of Padua, when we had Bayard, the best knight in
Europe, and 500 Frenchmen for our allies?  Our artillery had made a
breach, and the Kaisar requested the French knights to lead the storm,
whereto they answered, Well and good, but our German nobles must share
the assault, and not leave them to fight with no better backers than the
hired lanzknechts.  All in reason, quoth I, and more shame for us not to
have been foremost in our Kaisar's own cause; but what said the rest of
our misproud chivalry?  They would never condescend to climb a wall on
foot in company with lanzknechts!  On horseback must their worships
fight, or not at all; and when to shame them I called myself a
mountaineer, more used to climb than to ride, and vowed that I should
esteem it an honour to follow such a knight as Bayard, were it on all
fours, then cast they my burgher blood in my teeth.  Never saw I the
Kaisar so enraged; he swore that all the common sense in the empire was
in the burgher blood, and that he would make me a knight of the noblest
order in Europe to show how he esteemed it.  And next morning he was
gone!  So ashamed was he of his own army that he rode off in the night,
and sent orders to break up the siege.  I could have torn my hair, for I
had just lashed up a few of our nobles to a better sense of honour, and
we would yet have redeemed our name!  And after all, the Chapter of proud
Flemings would never have admitted me had not the heralds hunted up that
the Sorels were gentlemen of blood and coat armour long ago at Liege.  I
am glad my father lived to see that proved, mother.  He could not honour
thee more than he did, but he would have been sorely grieved had I been
rejected.  He often thought me a mechanical burgher, as it was
Not quite so, my son.  He never failed to be proud of thy deeds, even
when he did not understand them; but this, and the grandson's birth, were
the crowning joys of his life
Yes, those were glad triumphant years, take them all in all, ere the
Emperor sent me to act ambassador in Rome, and we left you the two elder
little girls and the boy to take care of.  My dear little Thekla!  She
had a foreboding that she might never see those children more, yet would
she have pined her heart away more surely had I left her at home!  I
never was absent a week but I found her wasted with watching for me
It was those weary seven years of Italy that changed thee most, my son
Apart from you, mother, and knowing you now indeed to be widowed, and
with on the one hand such contradictory commands from the Emperor as made
me sorely ashamed of myself, of my nation, and of the man whom I loved
and esteemed personally the most on earth, yet bound there by his express
command, while I saw my tender wife's health wasting in the climate day
by day!  Yet still, while most she gasped for a breath of Swabian hills,
she ever declared it would kill her outright to send her from me.  And
thus it went on till I laid her in the stately church of her own
patroness.  Then how it would have fared with me and the helpless little
ones I know not, but for thy noble godmother, my Vittoria, the wise and
ready helper of all in trouble, the only friend thy mother had made at
Rome, and who had been able, from all her heights of learning and
accomplishment, to value my Thekla's golden soul in its simplicity.  Even
then, when too late, came one of the Kaisar's kindest letters, recalling
me,--a letter whose every word I would have paid for with a drop of my own
blood six weeks before! and which he had only failed to send because his
head was running on the plan of that gorgeous tomb where he is not
buried!  Well, at least it brought us home to you again once more,
mother, and, where you are, comfort never has been utterly absent from
me.  And then, coming from the wilful gloom of Pope Leo's court into our
Germany, streamed over by the rays of Luther's light, it was as if a new
world of hope were dawning, as if truth would no longer be muffled, and
the young would grow up to a world far better and purer than the old had
ever seen.  What trumpet-calls those were, and how welcome was the voice
of the true Catholic faith no longer stifled!  And my dear old Kaisar,
with his clear eyes, his unfettered mind--he felt the power and truth of
those theses.  He bade the Elector of Saxony well to guard the monk
Luther as a treasure.  Ah! had he been a younger man, or had he been more
firm and resolute, able to act as well as think for himself, things might
have gone otherwise with the Church.  He could think, but could not act;
and now we have a man who acts, but _will_ not think.  It may have been a
good day for our German reputation among foreign princes when Charles V.
put on the crown; but only two days in my life have been as mournful to
me as that when I stood by Kaisar Max's death-bed at Wells, and knew that
generous, loving, fitful spirit was passing away from the earth!  Never
owned I friend I loved so well as Kaisar Max!  Nor has any Emperor done
so much for this our dear land
The young Emperor never loved thee
He might have treated me as one who could be useful, but he never
forgave me for shaking hands with Luther at the Diet of Worms.  I knew it
was all over with my court favour after I had joined in escorting the
Doctor out of the city.  And the next thing was that Georg of Freundsberg
and his friends proclaimed me a bigoted Papist because I did my utmost to
keep my troop out of the devil's holiday at the sack of Rome!  It has
ever been my lot to be in disgrace with one side or the other!  Here is
my daughter's marriage hindered on the one hand, my son's promotion
checked on the other, because I have a conscience of my own, and not of
other people's!  Heaven knows the right is no easy matter to find; but,
when one thinks one sees it, there is nothing to be done but to guide
oneself by it, even if the rest of the world will not view it in the same
light
Nothing else!  I doubt me whether it be ever easy to see the veritably
right course while still struggling in the midst.  That is for after
ages, which behold things afar off; but each man must needs follow his
own principle in an honest and good heart, and assuredly God will guide
him to work out some good end, or hinder some evil one
Ay, mother.  Each party may guard one side or other of the truth in all
honesty and faithfulness; he who cannot with his whole heart cast in his
lot with either,--he is apt to serve no purpose, and to be scorned
Nay, Ebbo, may he not be a witness to the higher and more perfect truth
than either party have conceived?  Nor is inaction always needful.  That
which is right towards either side still reveals itself at the due
moment, whether it be to act or to hold still.  And verily, Ebbo, what
thou didst say even now has set me on a strange thought of mine own
dream, that which heralded the birth of thyself and thy brother.  As thou
knowest, it seemed to me that I was watching two sparkles from the
extinguished Needfire wheel.  One rose aloft and shone as a star
My guiding-star
The other fulfilled those words of the Wise Man.  It shone and ran to
and fro in the grass.  And surely, my Ebbo, thy mother may feel that, in
all these dark days of perplexity and trial, the spark of light hath ever
shone and drawn its trail of brightness in the gloom, even though the way
was long, and seemed uncertain
The mother who ever fondled me _will_ think so, it may be!  But, ah! she
had better pray that the light be clearer, and that I may not fall
utterly short of the star
What is yonder castle
It is the castle of Adlerstein
Are the family still extant
Yea, yea; they built yonder house when the Schloss became ruinous.  They
have always been here
Who are these, good friend
They are the good Barons Ebbo and Friedel
No
they are twin brothers, the good Barons
Ebbo and Friedel, who were born when their father had been taken captive
by the Saracens while on a crusade.  Baron Friedel was slain by the Turks
at the bridge foot, and his brother built the church in his memory.  He
first planted vines upon the mountains, and freed the peasants from the
lord's dues on their flax.  And it is true that the two brothers may
still be seen hovering on the mountain-side in the mist at sunset,
sometimes one, sometimes both
Orate pro Anima Friedmundis Equitis Baronis Adlersteini.  A. D.
    mccccxciii
Hic jacet Eberardus Eques Baro Adlersteini.  A.D. mdxliii.  Demum
Here lies Christina Sorel, wife of Eberhard, xxth Baron von
    Adlerstein, and mother of the Barons Eberhard and Friedmund.  She
    fell asleep two days before her son, on the feast of St. John,
    mdxliii.

    "Her children shall rise up and call her blessed.

    "Erected with full hearts by her grandson, Baron Friedmund
    Maximilianus, and his brothers and sisters.  Farewell
</text>
