<text>
realms of gold
Young Ladies' Journal
I asked him not to
I said if he'd only please wait a
bit and Edward would be back soon, and it couldn't matter to _him_, and
the pig wouldn't mind, and Edward'd be pleased and everybody'd be happy.
But he just said he was very sorry, but bacon didn't wait for nobody. So
I told him he was a regular beast, and then I came away. And -- and I
b'lieve they're doing it now
Yes, he's a beast
D'you know what day it is
It's Trafalgar Day
Trafalgar Day -- and
nobody cares
Over there
over there the coaches used to go by. Uncle Thomas was
telling me about it the other day. And the people used to watch for 'em
coming, to tell the time by, and p'r'aps to get their parcels. And one
morning -- they wouldn't be expecting anything different -- one morning,
first there would be a cloud of dust, as usual, and then the coach would
come racing by, and then they would know! For the coach would be
dressed in laurel, all laurel from stem to stern! And the coachman would
be wearing laurel, and the guard would be wearing laurel, and then they
would know, then they would know
Why can't we _do_ something
_He_ -- he did
everything -- why can't we do anything for him
_Who_ did everything
Why, Nelson, of course
But he's -- he's _dead_, isn't he
What's that got to do with it
_Harold, ... with a vision of a frenzied gardener, pea-stickless, and
threatening retribution
Go 'n' get some more sticks
and shavings, 'n' chunks
of wood, 'n' anything you can find. Look here -- in the kitchen-garden
there's a pile of old pea-sticks. Fetch as many as you can carry, and
then go back and bring some more
But I say
Go and fetch 'em quick
Can't you get any more sticks
Go and hunt about. Get some old hampers and matting and
things out of the tool-house. Smash up that old cucumber frame Edward
shoved you into, the day we were playing scouts and Mohicans. Stop a
bit! Hooray! I know. You come along with me
You bring some coals
Here's a basket. _I'll_ manage the faggots
I _knew_ there
was something we could do! It isn't much -- but still it's _something_
them young devils at their tricks
again
The best of life is but intoxication
My God!' said the Czar,
'my plans are frustrated
Oh, it's my
sore knee
_And, last of all, you -- you, the General, the fabled hero -- you would
enter, on your coal-black charger, your pale set face seamed by an
interesting sabre cut
What hope is left us
save in the clemency of the General, the mysterious,
invincible General, of whom men tell such romantic tales
them
there fellows up by Halliday's
monks
a power o' good
We see our error now
we were always
dull dogs, slow to catch -- especially in those akin to us -- the finer
qualities of soul! We misunderstood you, misappreciated you, and we own
up to it. And now
Alas, my dear friends
Alas, you come too
late! This conduct is fitting and meritorious on your part, and indeed I
always expected it of you, sooner or later; but the die is cast, and you
may go home again and bewail at your leisure this too tardy repentance
of yours. For me, I am vowed and dedicated, and my relations henceforth
are austerity and holy works. Once a month, should you wish it, it shall
be your privilege to come and gaze at me through this very solid
grating; but
There's bin another letter come
to-day
and the hamper got joggled about on the
journey, and the presents worked down into the straw and all over the
place. One of 'em turned up inside the cold duck. And that's why they
weren't found at first. And Edward said, Thanks _awfully_
Hi-o
Hullo
Saw you in church on Sunday
only you looked different
then. All dressed up, and your hair quite smooth, and brushed up at the
sides, and oh, so shiny! What do they put on it to make it shine like
that? Don't you hate having your hair brushed
How your boots squeaked when you came down the
aisle! When mine squeak, I walk in all the puddles till they stop. Think
I'll get over the fence
I've been gardening
but I
didn't like it. There's so many worms about to-day. I hate worms. Wish
they'd keep out of the way when I'm digging
Oh, I like worms when I'm digging
seem to make
things more lively, don't they
Shouldn't mind 'em so much if they were warm and _dry_
but
I was watching you as you came along the road
and you had your head down and your hands in your pockets, and you
weren't throwing stones at anything, or whistling, or jumping over
things; and I thought perhaps you'd bin scolded, or got a
stomach-ache
No
it wasn't that. Fact is, I was -- I often -- but
it's a secret
Oh, do tell it me
You must! I'll never tell anyone else at all, I vow and declare
I won't
You won't care to hear about it
Besides, I can't
explain exactly. I think I won't tell you
But I _do_ care
I didn't think you'd be so
unkind
It's like this
This bit of road here -- up as
far as that corner -- you know it's a horrid dull bit of road. I'm always
having to go up and down it, and I know it so well, and I'm so sick of
it. So whenever I get to that corner, I just -- well, I go right off to
another place
What sort of a place
Of course it's just a place I imagine
but it's an awfully nice place -- the nicest place you ever
saw. And I always go off there in church, or during joggraphy lessons
I'm sure it's not nicer than my home
Oh,
you ought to see my home -- it's lovely! We've got
Yes it is, ever so much nicer
I mean
of course I know your home's beautiful and all that.
But this _must_ be nicer, 'cos if you want anything at all, you've only
_got_ to want it, and you can have it
That sounds jolly
Tell me more about it, please. Tell
me how you get there, first
I -- don't -- quite -- know -- exactly
I just go. But generally
it begins by -- well, you're going up a broad, clear river in a sort of a
boat. You're not rowing or anything -- you're just moving along. And
there's beautiful grass meadows on both sides, and the river's very
full, quite up to the level of the grass. And you glide along by the
edge. And the people are haymaking there, and playing games, and walking
about; and they shout to you, and you shout back to them, and they bring
you things to eat out of their baskets, and let you drink out of their
bottles; and some of 'em are the nice people you read about in books.
And so at last you come to the Palace steps -- great broad marble steps,
reaching right down to the water. And there at the steps you find every
sort of boat you can imagine -- schooners, and punts, and row-boats, and
little men-of-war. And you have any sort of boating you want to -- rowing,
or sailing, or shoving about in a punt
I'd go sailing
and I'd steer. No, _you'd_ have
to steer, and I'd sit about on the deck. No, I wouldn't though; I'd
row -- at least I'd make you row, and I'd steer. And then we'd -- Oh, no!
I'll tell you what we'd do! We'd just sit in a punt and dabble
Of course we'll do just what you like
I don't think we'd boat at all
It's always so
_wobbly_. Where do you come to next
You go up the steps
and in at the door, and the very
first place you come to is the Chocolate-room
Chocolate-room
It's got every sort of chocolate you can think of
soft
chocolate, with sticky stuff inside, white and pink, what girls like;
and hard shiny chocolate, that cracks when you bite it, and takes such
a nice long time to suck
I like the soft stuff best
cos you can eat such a lot
more of it
You can have all the creams
and I'll eat the
hard sticks, 'cos I like 'em best
Oh, but you mustn't
You must eat the same as
I do! It isn't nice to want to eat different. I'll tell you what -- you
must give _me_ all the chocolate, and then I'll give _you_ -- I'll give
you what you ought to have
Oh, all right
In the next room you come to
there's fizzy drinks!
There's a marble-slab business all round the room, and little silver
taps; and you just turn the right tap, and have any kind of fizzy drink
you want
What fizzy drinks are there
Oh, all sorts
Then you go down the corridor, and at the back of the palace
there's a great big park -- the finest park you ever saw. And there's
ponies to ride on, and carriages and carts; and a little railway, all
complete, engine and guard's van and all; and you work it yourself, and
you can go first-class, or in the van, or on the engine, just whichever
you choose
I'd go on the engine
No, I wouldn't, I'd
Then there's all the soldiers
There's any quantity of 'em, fine
big soldiers, and they all belong to me. And a row of brass cannons all
along the terrace! And every now and then I give the order, and they
fire off all the guns
No, they don't
I won't have 'em fire off
any guns! You must tell 'em not to. I hate guns, and as soon as they
begin firing I shall run right away
But -- but that's what they're _there_ for
I don't care
They mustn't do it. They can walk about
behind me if they like, and talk to me, and carry things. But they
mustn't fire off any guns
Any other boys there
Oh yes
Nice chaps, too. We'll have great
We'll play with them, of course
But you are going to be _my_ friend, aren't you? And you'll come in
_my_ boat, and we'll travel in the guard's van together, and I'll stop
the soldiers firing off their guns
Remember
you mustn't tell anybody about
what I've been telling you
It's a dead secret
A secret between us two, and
nobody knows it except ourselves
I suppose you call that thing a ship
Who ever heard of a pink ship? Hoo-hoo
There is a pink ship
lying in the
toy-shop window now. You can go and look at it if you like. D'you
suppose you know more about ships than the fellows who make 'em
Those are funny things, too
S'pose they're meant to be
trees. But they're _blue_
They _are_ trees
and they _are_ blue.
They've _got_ to be blue, 'cos you stole my gamboge last week, so I
can't mix up any green
_Didn't_ steal your gamboge
And I wouldn't tell lies, either,
if I was you, about a dirty little bit of gamboge
I only just want to see
_You_ can read it if you like
It's only a
Death-letter
my dear edward (it ran) when I die I leave all my
          muny to you my walkin sticks wips my crop my sord
          and gun bricks forts and all things i have
          goodbye my dear charlotte when i die I leave you
          my wach and cumpus and pencel case my salors and
          camperdown my picteres and evthing goodbye your
          loving brother armen my dear Martha I love you
          very much i leave you my garden my mice and rabets
          my plants in pots when I die please take care of
          them my dear
Why, you're not leaving _me_ anything
You're a regular mean little boy, and I'll take back the last birthday
present I gave you
I don't care
I
_was_ going to leave you something, but I sha'n't now, 'cos you tried to
read my death-letter before I was dead
Then I'll write a death-letter myself
and I sha'n't leave you a single thing
Hi
Hi
What, a circus
that would be nice to take the children to. Wednesday would
be a good day. Suppose we go on Wednesday. Oh, and pleats are being worn
again, with rows of deep braid
my mauve tulle
Circus
Circus
Circus
Some other time, dear
I should like to be a cave-man, like Uncle George
was tellin' us about: with a flint hatchet and no clothes, and live in a
cave and not know anybody
And if anyone came to see us we didn't like
we'd hit him on the head with the hatchet
till he dropped down dead
And then
we'd drag him into the cave and
_skin him_
You look bored
thoroughly bored. Or else -- let
me see; you're not married, are you
Then it's only boredom
Just satiety and world-weariness.
Well, if you assure me you aren't married you can climb into this cart
and I'll take you for a drive. I'm bored, too. I want to do something
dark and dreadful and exciting
My wife
has ordered me to go and look up the curate and
bring him home to tea. Does that sound sufficiently exciting for you
but I'm not going to
Then I was to stop at
some cottage and ask -- what was it? There was _nettle-rash_ mixed up in
it, I'm sure. But never mind, I've forgotten, and it doesn't matter.
Look here, we're three desperate young fellows who stick at nothing.
Suppose we go off to the circus
We're-goin'-to-the-circus
We're-goin'-to-the-circus
Wasn't she beautiful
_Oh, to be splendid fellow like this, self-contained, ready of speech,
agile beyond conception, braving the forces of society, his hand against
everyone, and yet always getting the best of it
Buffalo-book
Why, you talk as if you'd been in that crow's-nest
yourself
big house
_While every plunge of our bows brought us nearer to the happy
island
I've got ahead of Charlotte _this_ time
When I've grown up big, and have money of my own,
and a full-sized walking-stick, I will set out early one morning, and
never stop till I get to that little walled town
_All serious resistance came to an end as soon as I had reached the
quarter-deck and cut down the pirate chief
pour out
Don't you know
Thought you knew
all the beasts that ever was
No
they won't any of 'em quite do.
Seems like something _lizardy_. Did you say a iguanodon? Might be that,
p'raps. But that's not British, and we want a real British beast. _I_
think it's a dragon
Tisn't half big enough
Well, all dragons must be small to begin with
like
everything else. P'raps this is a little dragon who's got lost. A little
dragon would be rather nice to have. He might scratch and spit, but he
couldn't _do_ anything really. Let's track him down
May I inquire
what particular sort of a
Beast you may happen to be looking for
It's a _lizardy_ sort of Beast
Charlotte says it's a
dragon, but she doesn't really know much about beasts
I don't _think_
that I've seen a dragon in these parts recently. But if I come
across one I'll know it belongs to you, and I'll have him taken round to
you at once
Thank you very much
but don't _trouble_ about it,
please, 'cos p'raps it isn't a dragon, after all. Only I thought I saw
his little footprints in the snow, and we followed 'em up, and they
seemed to lead right in here, but maybe it's all a mistake, and thank
you all the same
Oh, no trouble at all
I should be
only too pleased. But of course, as you say, it _may_ be a mistake. And
it's getting dark, and he seems to have got away for the present,
whatever he is. You'd better come in and have some tea. I'm quite alone,
and we'll make a roaring fire, and I've got the biggest Book of Beasts
you ever saw. It's got every beast in the world, and all of 'em
coloured; and we'll try and find _your_ beast in it
Here, I'm coming along with you
I want another
pipe, and a walk'll do me good. You needn't talk to me unless you like
Now, then
tell us a story, please, won't you
I knew it
I
_knew_ I should have to tell a story. Oh, why did I leave my pleasant
fireside? Well, I _will_ tell you a story. Only let me think a minute
It's all up with me, Maria! Never no more can I go up on them there
Downs, was it ever so
Now don't you take on like that
but tell us all about it first, whatever it is as has
given you this shake-up, and then me and you and the son here, between
us, we ought to be able to get to the bottom of it
It began some nights ago
You know that cave up
there -- I never liked it, somehow, and the sheep never liked it neither,
and when sheep don't like a thing there's generally some reason for it.
Well, for some time past there's been faint noises coming from that
cave -- noises like heavy sighings, with grunts mixed up in them; and
sometimes a snoring, far away down -- _real_ snoring, yet somehow not
_honest_ snoring, like you and me o'nights, you know
_I_ know
Of course I was terrible frightened
yet
somehow I couldn't keep away. So this very evening, before I come down,
I took a cast round by the cave, quietly. And there -- O Lord! there I saw
him at last, as plain as I see you
Saw _who_
Why _him_, I'm a telling you
He was sticking
half-way out of the cave, and seemed to be enjoying of the cool of the
evening in a poetical sort of way. He was as big as four cart-horses,
and all covered with shiny scales -- deep-blue scales at the top of him,
shading off to a tender sort o' green below. As he breathed, there was
that sort of flicker over his nostrils that you see over our chalk roads
on a baking windless day in summer. He had his chin on his paws, and I
should say he was meditating about things. Oh, yes, a peaceable sort o'
beast enough, and not ramping or carrying on or doing anything but what
was quite right and proper. I admit all that. And yet, what am I to do?
_Scales_, you know, and claws, and a tail for certain, though I didn't
see that end of him -- I ain't _used_ to 'em, and I don't _hold_ with 'em,
and that's a fact
It's all right, father. Don't you worry. It's only a dragon
Only a dragon
What do you mean, sitting there, you
and your dragons? _Only_ a dragon indeed! And what do _you_ know about
it
Cos it _is_, and 'cos I _do_ know
Look
here, father, you know we've each of us got our line. _You_ know about
sheep, and weather, and things; _I_ know about dragons. I always said,
you know, that that cave up there was a dragon-cave. I always said it
must have belonged to a dragon some time, and ought to belong to a
dragon now, if rules count for anything. Well, now you tell me it _has_
got a dragon, and so _that's_ all right. I'm not half as much surprised
as when you told me it _hadn't_ got a dragon. Rules always come right if
you wait quietly. Now, please, just leave this all to me. And I'll
stroll up to-morrow morning -- no, in the morning I can't, I've got a
whole heap of things to do -- well, perhaps in the evening, if I'm quite
free, I'll go up and have a talk to him, and you'll find it'll be all
right. Only, please, don't you go worrying round there without me. You
don't understand 'em a bit, and they're very sensitive, you know
He's quite right, father
As he says,
dragons is his line and not ours. He's wonderful knowing about
bookbeasts, as every one allows. And to tell the truth, I'm not half
happy in my own mind, thinking of that poor animal lying alone up there,
without a bit o' hot supper or anyone to change the news with; and maybe
we'll be able to do something for him; and if he ain't quite respectable
our Boy'll find it out quick enough. He's got a pleasant sort o' way
with him that makes everybody tell him everything
Well, we live and learn
None
of my books ever told me that dragons purred
Hullo, dragon
Now don't you hit me
or bung stones, or squirt water, or
anything. I won't have it, I tell you
Not goin' to hit you
and don't, for goodness' sake, keep on saying
'Don't;' I hear so much of it, and it's monotonous, and makes me tired.
I've simply looked in to ask you how you were and all that sort of
thing; but if I'm in the way I can easily clear out. I've lots of
friends, and no one can say I'm in the habit of shoving myself in where
I'm not wanted
No, no, don't go off in a huff
fact
is,-- I'm as happy up here as the day's long; never without an
occupation, dear fellow, never without an occupation! And yet, between
ourselves, it _is_ a trifle dull at times
Going to make a long
stay here
Can't hardly say at present
It seems a nice
place enough -- but I've only been here a short time, and one must look
about and reflect and consider before settling down. It's rather a
serious thing, settling down. Besides -- now I'm going to tell you
something! You'd never guess it if you tried ever so!-- fact is, I'm such
a confoundedly lazy beggar
You surprise me
It's the sad truth
and I fancy
that's really how I came to be here. You see all the other fellows were
so active and _earnest_ and all that sort of thing -- always rampaging,
and skirmishing, and scouring the desert sands, and pacing the margin of
the sea, and chasing knights all over the place, and devouring damsels,
and going on generally -- whereas I liked to get my meals regular and then
to prop my back against a bit of rock and snooze a bit, and wake up and
think of things going on and how they kept going on just the same, you
know! So when it happened I got fairly caught
When _what_ happened, please
What's your mind always occupied about?' asked the Boy. 'That's what
I want to know
That's just what I don't precisely know
I
suppose the earth sneezed, or shook itself, or the bottom dropped out of
something. Anyhow there was a shake and a roar and a general stramash,
and I found myself miles away underground and wedged in as tight as
tight. Well, thank goodness, my wants are few, and at any rate I had
peace and quietness and wasn't always being asked to come along and _do_
something. And I've got such an active mind -- always occupied, I assure
you! But time went on, and there was a certain sameness about the life,
and at last I began to think it would be fun to work my way upstairs and
see what you other fellows were doing. So I scratched and burrowed, and
worked this way and that way and at last I came out through this cave
here. And I like the country, and the view, and the people -- what I've
seen of 'em -- and on the whole I feel inclined to settle down here
What's your mind always occupied about
That's what I
want to know
Did you ever -- just for fun -- try to make up poetry -- verses, you know
Course I have
Heaps of it. And some of it's quite
good, I feel sure, only there's no one here cares about it. Mother's
very kind and all that, when I read it to her, and so's father for that
matter. But somehow they don't seem to
Exactly
my own case exactly. They don't seem to,
and you can't argue with 'em about it. Now you've got culture, you have,
I could tell it on you at once, and I should just like your candid
opinion about some little things I threw off lightly, when I was down
there. I'm awfully pleased to have met you, and I'm hoping the other
neighbours will be equally agreeable. There was a very nice old
gentleman up here only last night, but he didn't seem to want to
intrude
That was my father
and he _is_ a nice old gentleman,
and I'll introduce you some day if you like
Can't you two come up here and dine or something to-morrow
Only, of course, if you've got nothing better to do
Thanks awfully
but we don't go out anywhere without my
mother, and, to tell you the truth, I'm afraid she mightn't quite
approve of you. You see there's no getting over the hard fact that
you're a dragon, is there? And when you talk of settling down, and the
neighbours, and so on, I can't help feeling that you don't quite realise
your position. You're an enemy of the human race, you see
Haven't got an enemy in the world
Too
lazy to make 'em, to begin with. And if I _do_ read other fellows my
poetry, I'm always ready to listen to theirs
Oh, dear
I wish you'd try and grasp the situation
properly. When the other people find you out, they'll come after you
with spears and swords and all sorts of things. You'll have to be
exterminated, according to their way of looking at it! You're a scourge,
and a pest, and a baneful monster
Not a word of truth in it
Character'll bear the strictest investigation. And now,
there's a little sonnet-thing I was working on when you appeared on the
scene
Oh, if you _won't_ be sensible
I'm going
off home. No, I can't stop for sonnets; my mother's sitting up. I'll
look you up to-morrow, sometime or other, and do for goodness' sake try
and realise that you're a pestilential scourge, or you'll find yourself
in a most awful fix. Good-night
they didn't know who he was
What's up
Is it the players, or bears, or a circus, or
what
It's all right
He's a-coming
_Who's_ a-coming
Why, St. George, of course
He's heard tell of
our dragon, and he's comin' on purpose to slay the deadly beast, and
free us from his horrid yoke. O my! won't there be a jolly fight
It's all up, dragon
He's coming! He's here now! You'll have to pull yourself
together and _do_ something at last
Don't be _violent_, Boy
Sit down and
get your breath, and try and remember that the noun governs the verb,
and then perhaps you'll be good enough to tell me _who's_ coming
That's right, take it coolly
Hope you'll be half as
cool when I've got through with my news. It's only St. George who's
coming, that's all; he rode into the village half-an-hour ago. Of course
you can lick him -- a great big fellow like you! But I thought I'd warn
you, 'cos he's sure to be round early, and he's got the longest,
wickedest-looking spear you ever did see
O deary, deary me
this is too awful. I won't see
him, and that's flat. I don't want to know the fellow at all. I'm sure
he's not nice. You must tell him to go away at once, please. Say he can
write if he likes, but I can't give him an interview. I'm not seeing
anybody at present
Now dragon, dragon
don't be perverse and
wrongheaded. You've _got_ to fight him some time or other, you know,
'cos he's St. George and you're the dragon. Better get it over, and then
we can go on with the sonnets. And you ought to consider other people a
little, too. If it's been dull up here for you, think how dull it's been
for me
My dear little man
just understand, once
for all, that I can't fight and I won't fight. I've never fought in my
life, and I'm not going to begin now, just to give you a Roman holiday.
In old days I always let the other fellows -- the _earnest_ fellows -- do
all the fighting, and no doubt that's why I have the pleasure of being
here now
But if you don't fight he'll cut your head off
Oh, I think not
You'll be able to
arrange something. I've every confidence in you, you're such a
_manager_. Just run down, there's a dear chap, and make it all right. I
leave it entirely to you
Arrange things indeed
The dragon treats the whole affair as if it was an
invitation to tea and croquet
May I come in, St. George
I want to talk to you about this little matter of the dragon, if
you're not tired of it by this time
Yes, come in, Boy
Another tale of misery and
wrong, I fear me. Is it a kind parent, then, of whom the tyrant has
bereft you? Or some tender sister or brother? Well, it shall soon be
avenged
Nothing of the sort
There's a misunderstanding
somewhere, and I want to put it right. The fact is, this is a _good_
dragon
Exactly
I quite understand. A
good _dragon_. Believe me, I do not in the least regret that he is an
adversary worthy of my steel, and no feeble specimen of his noxious
tribe
But he's _not_ a noxious tribe
Oh dear,
oh dear, how _stupid_ men are when they get an idea into their heads! I
tell you he's a _good_ dragon, and a friend of mine, and tells me the
most beautiful stories you ever heard, all about old times and when he
was little. And he's been so kind to mother, and mother'd do anything
for him. And father likes him too, though father doesn't hold with art
and poetry much, and always falls asleep when the dragon starts talking
about _style_. But the fact is, nobody can help liking him when once
they know him. He's so engaging and so trustful, and as simple as a
child
Sit down, and draw your chair up
I like a fellow
who sticks up for his friends, and I'm sure the dragon has his good
points, if he's got a friend like you. But that's not the question. All
this evening I've been listening, with grief and anguish unspeakable, to
tales of murder, theft, and wrong; rather too highly coloured, perhaps,
not always quite convincing, but forming in the main a most serious roll
of crime. History teaches us that the greatest rascals often possess all
the domestic virtues; and I fear that your cultivated friend, in spite
of the qualities which have won (and rightly) your regard, has got to be
speedily exterminated
Oh, you've been taking in all the yarns those fellows have been telling
you
Why, our villagers are the biggest
story-tellers in all the country round. It's a known fact. You're a
stranger in these parts, or else you'd have heard it already. All they
want is a _fight_. They're the most awful beggars for getting up
fights -- it's meat and drink to them. Dogs, bulls, dragons -- anything so
long as it's a fight. Why, they've got a poor innocent badger in the
stable behind here, at this moment. They were going to have some fun
with him to-day, but they're saving him up now till _your_ little
affair's over. And I've no doubt they've been telling you what a hero
you were, and how you were bound to win, in the cause of right and
justice, and so on; but let me tell you, I came down the street just
now, and they were betting six to four on the dragon freely
Six to four on the dragon
This is an evil world, and sometimes I begin to
think that all the wickedness in it is not entirely bottled up inside
the dragons. And yet -- may not this wily beast have misled you as to his
real character, in order that your good report of him may serve as a
cloak for his evil deeds? Nay, may there not be, at this very moment,
some hapless Princess immured within yonder gloomy cavern
I assure you, St. George
there's nothing of the
sort in the cave at all. The dragon's a real gentleman, every inch of
him, and I may say that no one would be more shocked and grieved than he
would, at hearing you talk in that -- that _loose_ way about matters on
which he has very strong views
Well, perhaps I've been over-credulous
Perhaps I've
misjudged the animal. But what are we to do? Here are the dragon and I,
almost face to face, each supposed to be thirsting for each other's
blood. I don't see any way out of it, exactly. What do you suggest?
Can't you arrange things, somehow
That's just what the dragon said
Really, the way you two seem to leave everything to me -- I suppose you
couldn't be persuaded to go away quietly, could you
Impossible, I fear
Quite against the rules. _You_
know that as well as I do
Well, then, look here
it's early yet -- would you mind
strolling up with me and seeing the dragon and talking it over? It's not
far, and any friend of mine will be most welcome
Well, it's _irregular_
but really it seems
about the most sensible thing to do. You 're taking a lot of trouble on
your friend's account
But cheer up! Perhaps there won't have to be
any fight after all
Oh, but I hope there will, though
I've brought a friend to see you, dragon
I was just -- er -- thinking about
things
Very pleased to make your
acquaintance, sir. Charming weather we're having
This is St. George
St. George, let me
introduce you to the dragon. We've come up to talk things over quietly,
dragon, and now for goodness' sake do let us have a little straight
common-sense, and come to some practical business-like arrangement, for
I'm sick of views and theories of life and personal tendencies, and all
that sort of thing. I may perhaps add that my mother's sitting up
So glad to meet you, St. George
because you've been a great traveller, I hear, and I've always been
rather a stay-at-home. But I can show you many antiquities, many
interesting features of our country-side, if you're stopping here any
time
I think
that we'd
really better take the advice of our young friend here, and try to come
to some understanding, on a business footing, about this little affair
of ours. Now don't you think that after all the simplest plan would be
just to fight it out, according to the rules, and let the best man win?
They re betting on you, I may tell you, down in the village, but I don't
mind that
Oh, yes, _do_, dragon
it'll save such a
lot of bother
My young friend, you shut up
Believe me,
St. George
there's nobody in the world I'd sooner oblige
than you and this young gentleman here. But the whole thing's nonsense,
and conventionality, and popular thick-headedness. There's absolutely
nothing to fight about, from beginning to end. And anyhow I'm not going
to, so that settles it
But supposing I make you
You can't
I should only go into my
cave and retire for a time down the hole I came up. You'd soon get
heartily sick of sitting outside and waiting for me to come out and
fight you. And as soon as you'd really gone away, why, I'd come up again
gaily, for I tell you frankly, I like this place, and I'm going to stay
here
But
this would be a beautiful place for a fight
These great bare rolling Downs for the arena,-- and me in
my golden armour showing up against your big blue scaly coils! Think
what a picture it would make
Now you're trying to get at me through my artistic sensibilities
But it won't work. Not but what it would make a very pretty
picture, as you say
We seem to be getting rather nearer to _business_
You must see, dragon, that there's got to be a fight of some sort, 'cos
you can't want to have to go down that dirty old hole again and stop
there till goodness knows when
It might be arranged
I _must_ spear
you somewhere, of course, but I'm not bound to hurt you very much.
There's such a lot of you that there must be a few _spare_ places
somewhere. Here, for instance, just behind your foreleg. It couldn't
hurt you much, just here
Now you're tickling, George
No, that place
won't do at all. Even if it didn't hurt,-- and I'm sure it would,
awfully,-- it would make me laugh, and that would spoil everything
Let's try somewhere else, then
Under
your neck, for instance,-- all these folds of thick skin,-- if I speared
you here you'd never even know I'd done it
Yes, but are you sure you can hit off the right place
Of course I am
You leave that to
me
It's just because I've _got_ to leave it to you that I'm asking
No doubt you would deeply regret
any error you might make in the hurry of the moment; but you wouldn't
regret it half as much as I should! However, I suppose we've got to
trust somebody, as we go through life, and your plan seems, on the
whole, as good a one as any
Look here, dragon
I
don't quite see where _you_ come in! There's to be a fight, apparently,
and you're to be licked; and what I want to know is, what are _you_
going to get out of it
St. George
just tell him, please,-- what will happen
after I'm vanquished in the deadly combat
Well, according to the rules I suppose I shall lead you in triumph down
to the market-place or whatever answers to it
Precisely
And then
And then there'll be shoutings and speeches and things
And I shall explain that you're converted, and see the error of
your ways, and so on
Quite so
And then
Oh, and then
why, and then there will be the usual
banquet, I suppose
Exactly
and that's where _I_ come in. Look here
I'm bored to death up here, and no
one really appreciates me. I'm going into Society, I am, through the
kindly aid of our friend here, who's taking such a lot of trouble on my
account; and you'll find I've got all the qualities to endear me to
people who entertain! So now that's all settled, and if you don't
mind -- I'm an old-fashioned fellow -- don't want to turn you out, but
Remember, you'll have to do your proper share of the fighting, dragon
I mean ramping,
and breathing fire, and so on
I can _ramp_ all right
as to
breathing fire, it's surprising how easily one gets out of practice; but
I'll do the best I can. Good-night
_Knew_ I had forgotten something
There ought to be a Princess. Terror-stricken and chained to a
rock, and all that sort of thing. Boy, can't you arrange a Princess
I'm tired to death
and I _can't_ arrange a Princess, or anything more, at this
time of night. And my mother's sitting up, and _do_ stop asking me to
arrange more things till to-morrow
Now then, dragon
Oo oo-oo
Oh, well done,
dragon
Didn't think he had it in him
Missed
End of Round One
How well they managed it! But I
hope the Saint won't get excited. I can trust the dragon all right. What
a regular play-actor the fellow is
It seems to be all planned out
Round Three
is to be the finishing one, evidently. Wish it could have lasted a bit
longer. Whatever's that old fool of a dragon up to now
Time
It's been a jolly fight, St. George
Can't you
let it last a bit longer
Well, I think I'd better not
The fact is, your
simple-minded old friend's getting conceited, now they've begun cheering
him, and he'll forget all about the arrangement and take to playing the
fool, and there's no telling where he would stop. I'll just finish him
off this round
Now
don't you be afraid
I've marked my spot exactly, and
he's sure to give me all the assistance in his power, because he knows
it's his only chance of being asked to the banquet
Bain't you goin' to cut 'is 'ed orf, master
Well, not to-day, I think
You see,
that can be done at any time. There's no hurry at all. I think we'll all
go down to the village first, and have some refreshment, and then I'll
give him a good talking-to, and you'll find he'll be a very different
dragon
Look here! you will
see me home afterwards, won't you
Jolly night it's been
Jolly stars! Jolly
little place this! Think I shall just stop here. Don't feel like
climbing up any beastly hill. Boy's promised to see me home. Boy had
better do it then! No responsibility on my part. Responsibility all
Boy's
Oh, get up, dragon
You know my mother's
sitting up, and I'm so tired, and you made me promise to see you home,
and I never knew what it meant or I wouldn't have done it
What's the matter, Boy
Oh, it's this great lumbering _pig_ of a dragon
First he makes me promise to see him home, and then he says I'd better
do it, and goes to sleep! Might as well try to see a _haystack_ home!
And I'm so tired, and mother's
Now don't take on
I'll stand by you, and we'll
_both_ see him home. Wake up, dragon
What a night, George
what a
Now look here, dragon
Here's this little
fellow waiting to see you home, and you _know_ he ought to have been in
bed these two hours, and what his mother'll say _I_ don't know, and
anybody but a selfish pig would have _made_ him go to bed long ago
And he _shall_ go to bed
Poor little
chap, only fancy his being up at this hour! It's a shame, that's what it
is, and I don't think, St. George, you've been very considerate -- but
come along at once, and don't let us have any more arguing or
shilly-shallying. You give me hold of your hand, Boy -- thank you, George,
an arm up the hill is just what I wanted
Here we are at your gate
Good-night. Cut along in sharp, or you'll catch it
Oh, but wait a minute
I want to know a heap of
things. Did the dragon really settle down? And did
There isn't any more of that story
At least, not tonight. Now be off! Good-bye
Wonder if it's all true
Sounded dreadfully like nonsense, in parts
P'raps it's true for all that
Then St. George: ee made rev'rence: in the stable so dim,
           Oo vanquished the dragon: so fearful and grim.
           So-o grim: and so-o fierce: that now may we say
           All peaceful is our wakin': on Chri-istmas Day
angusta
the hard heir strides
about the land
You can come too if you like
We
didn't think you'd care, 'cos you've got to catapults. But we're goin'
to do what we've settled to do, so it's no good sayin' we hadn't ought
and that sort of thing, 'cos we're goin' to
Here's Rosa
I know the feel of her hair. Will
you have Rosa out
Oh, give me Rosa
Here's something with sharp corners
Must be
Leotard, I think. Better let _him_ go
Oh, yes, we can't save Leotard
Now I've got to the Noah's Ark
Try and shove the lid back a bit
and pull out a dove
or a zebra or a giraffe if there's one handy
They're jammed in too tight
Can't get any more out.
But as I came up I'm sure I felt Potiphar
That'll have to do
We dursn't take any
more, 'cos we'll be found out if we do. Make the box all right, and
bring 'em along
_As we turned to go, the man in the moon, tangled in elm boughs, caught
my eye for a moment
</text>
