<text>
I hit him, I hit him!  Dame Astrida, do you hear?
'Tis a stag of ten branches, and I hit him in the neck
You! my Lord Richard! you killed him
Oh, no, I only struck him.  It was Osmond's shaft that took him in the
eye, and -- Look you, Fru Astrida, he came thus through the wood, and I
stood here, it might be, under the great elm with my bow thus
Have they brought home the haunch
Yes, Walter is bringing it.  I had a long arrow
This is something to tell my father.  Do you think he will come
soon
You will have enough to do with steel and dagger before your life is at
an end
without seeking to begin over soon
To be sure I shall
I will be called Richard of the
Sharp Axe, or the Bold Spirit, I promise you, Fru Astrida.  We are as
brave in these days as the Sigurds and Ragnars you sing of!  I only wish
there were serpents and dragons to slay here in Normandy
Never fear but you will find even too many of them
there be dragons of wrong here and everywhere, quite as venomous as any
in my Sagas
I fear them not
if you
would only let me have the dagger!  But, hark! hark
They come, they come!  There is the banner of Normandy
Let me hold his stirrup
William of the long Sword
God of His mercy
bless thee, my son
Dane
And, Richard
have you nought
to tell me of Father Lucas, and his great book?  What, not a word?  Look
up, Richard, and tell me how it goes with the learning
Oh, father
I don't like those crabbed letters on
the old yellow parchment
But you try to learn them, I hope
Yes, father, I do, but they are very hard, and the words are so long,
and Father Lucas will always come when the sun is so bright, and the wood
so green, that I know not how to bear to be kept poring over those black
hooks and strokes
Poor little fellow
You do not know this reading, noble
father
To my sorrow, no
And Sir Eric cannot read, nor Osmond, nor any one, and why must I read,
and cramp my fingers with writing, just as if I was a clerk, instead of a
young Duke
It is hard, no doubt, my boy, to you now, but it will be the better for
you in the end.  I would give much to be able myself to read those holy
books which I must now only hear read to me by a clerk, but since I have
had the wish, I have had no time to learn as you have now
But Knights and Nobles never learn
And do you think it a reason they never should?  But you are wrong, my
boy, for the Kings of France and England, the Counts of Anjou, of
Provence, and Paris, yes, even King Hako of Norway, {4} can all read
I tell you, Richard, when the treaty was drawn up for restoring this
King Louis to his throne, I was ashamed to find myself one of the few
crown vassals who could not write his name thereto
But none is so wise or so good as you, father
Sir Eric often says so
Sir Eric loves his Duke too well to see his faults
but far better and wiser might I have been, had I been taught by such
masters as you may be.  And hark, Richard, not only can all Princes here
read, but in England, King Ethelstane would have every Noble taught; they
study in his own palace, with his brothers, and read the good words that
King Alfred the truth-teller put into their own tongue for them
I hate the English
Hate them? and wherefore
Because they traitorously killed the brave Sea King Ragnar!  Fru Astrida
sings his death-song, which he chanted when the vipers were gnawing him
to death, and he gloried to think how his sons would bring the ravens to
feast upon the Saxon.  Oh! had I been his son, how I would have carried
on the feud!  How I would have laughed when I cut down the false
traitors, and burnt their palaces
Fru Astrida must sing you no more such Sagas
if they fill
your mind with these revengeful thoughts, fit only for the worshippers of
Odin and Thor.  Neither Ragnar nor his sons knew better than to rejoice
in this deadly vengeance, but we, who are Christians, know that it is for
us to forgive
The English had slain their father
Yes, Richard, and I speak not against them, for they were even as we
should have been, had not King Harold the fair-haired driven your
grandfather from Denmark.  They had not been taught the truth, but to us
it has been said, 'Forgive, and ye shall be forgiven.'  Listen to me, my
son, Christian as is this nation of ours, this duty of forgiveness is too
often neglected, but let it not be so with you.  Bear in mind, whenever
you see the Cross {5} marked on our banner, or carved in stone on the
Churches, that it speaks of forgiveness to us; but of that pardon we
shall never taste if we forgive not our enemies.  Do you mark me, boy
Yes, father, but I could
never have pardoned, had I been one of Ragnar's sons
It may be that you will be in their case, Richard
and
should I fall, as it may well be I shall, in some of the contests that
tear to pieces this unhappy Kingdom of France, then, remember what I say
now.  I charge you, on your duty to God and to your father, that you keep
up no feud, no hatred, but rather that you should deem me best revenged,
when you have with heart and hand, given the fullest proof of forgiveness
to your enemy.  Give me your word that you will
Yes, father
Oh, what is that
What does that key unlock
My greatest treasure
Your greatest treasure, father!  Is that your coronet
You will know one day
Oh, but tell of the paying homage
and how Sigurd
Bloodaxe threw down simple King Charles!  Ah! how would I have laughed to
see it
Nay, nay, Lord Richard
I love not that tale.  That
was ere the Norman learnt courtesy, and rudeness ought rather to be
forgotten than remembered, save for the sake of amending it.  No, I will
rather tell you of our coming to Centeville, and how dreary I thought
these smooth meads, and broad soft gliding streams, compared with mine
own father's fiord in Norway, shut in with the tall black rocks, and dark
pines above them, and far away the snowy mountains rising into the sky.
Ah! how blue the waters were in the long summer days when I sat in my
father's boat in the little fiord, and
Hark
Wake, wake, Sir Eric, my father
is come!  Oh, haste to open the gate, and admit him
Peace, dogs
Go, Osmond, with the porter, and see whether he who comes at
such an hour be friend or foe.  Stay you here, my Lord
Tidings from the Duke, I should guess
It can
scarce be himself at such an hour
Oh, it must be, dear Fru Astrida
He said he would come
again.  Hark, there are horses' feet in the court!  I am sure that is his
black charger's tread!  And I shall not be there to hold his stirrup!
Oh!  Sir Eric, let me go
Count Bernard of
Harcourt, and Sir Rainulf de Ferrieres
Richard, Duke of Normandy,
I am thy liegeman and true vassal
Is it even so
I am thy liegeman and true vassal, and swear fealty
to thee for my castle and barony of Centeville
Oh, no, no
What means it?  Oh!  Fru Astrida, tell me what means it?  Where is my
father
Alas, my child
The Duke dead
Even so
But how? when? where
There was no
note of battle when you went forth.  Oh, why was not I at his side
He fell not in battle
Ha! could sickness cut him down so quickly
It was not sickness
It was treachery.  He fell
in the Isle of Pecquigny, by the hand of the false Fleming
Lives the traitor yet
He lives and rejoices in his crime
safe in his own
merchant towns
I can scarce credit you, my Lords
Our Duke slain, and
his enemy safe, and you here to tell the tale
I would I were stark and stiff by my Lord's side
but for the sake of Normandy, and of that poor child, who is like to
need all that ever were friends to his house.  I would that mine eyes had
been blinded for ever, ere they had seen that sight!  And not a sword
lifted in his defence!  Tell you how it passed, Rainulf!  My tongue will
not speak it
You know how in an evil hour our good
Duke appointed to meet this caitiff, Count of Flanders, in the Isle of
Pecquigny, the Duke and Count each bringing twelve men with them, all
unarmed.  Duke Alan of Brittany was one on our side, Count Bernard here
another, old Count Bothon and myself; we bore no weapon -- would that we
had -- but not so the false Flemings.  Ah me!  I shall never forget Duke
William's lordly presence when he stepped ashore, and doffed his bonnet
to the knave Arnulf
Yes
And marked you not the words of the traitor,
as they met?  'My Lord,' quoth he, 'you are my shield and defence.' {6}
Would that I could cleave his treason-hatching skull with my battle-axe
So
they conferred together, and as words cost
nothing to Arnulf, he not only promised all restitution to the paltry
Montreuil, but even was for offering to pay homage to our Duke for
Flanders itself; but this our William refused, saying it were foul wrong
to both King Louis of France, and Kaiser Otho of Germany, to take from
them their vassal.  They took leave of each other in all courtesy, and we
embarked again.  It was Duke William's pleasure to go alone in a small
boat, while we twelve were together in another.  Just as we had nearly
reached our own bank, there was a shout from the Flemings that their
Count had somewhat further to say to the Duke, and forbidding us to
follow him, the Duke turned his boat and went back again.  No sooner had
he set foot on the isle
than we saw one Fleming strike him on the
head with an oar; he fell senseless, the rest threw themselves upon him,
and the next moment held up their bloody daggers in scorn at us!  You may
well think how we shouted and yelled at them, and plied our oars like men
distracted, but all in vain, they were already in their boats, and ere we
could even reach the isle, they were on the other side of the river,
mounted their horses, fled with coward speed, and were out of reach of a
Norman's vengeance
But they shall not be so long
Oh, that I were a man to chastise
them!  One day they shall feel
Ha! say you so, my young Lord
Yes, and I see a sparkle in your eye that tells me you will one day
avenge him nobly
Ay, truly, that will he!  You might search Normandy through,
yea, and Norway likewise, ere you would find a temper more bold and free.
Trust my word, Count Bernard, our young Duke will be famed as widely as
ever were his forefathers
I believe it well
He hath the port of his grandfather,
Duke Rollo, and much, too, of his noble father!  How say you, Lord
Richard, will you be a valiant leader of the Norman race against our
foes
That I will
I will ride at your head this very night if you
will but go to chastise the false Flemings
You shall ride with us to-morrow, my Lord
but it
must be to Rouen, there to be invested with your ducal sword and mantle,
and to receive the homage of your vassals
the child
Long live the little Duke
Nay, my Lord, to the
Church of our Lady
See you that, my Lord
I see it, and dearly shall the traitor Fleming abye it
Yes, Arnulf of Flanders, know that Duke William of Normandy shall not
rest unavenged!  On this good sword I vow, that, as soon as my arm shall
have strength
Richard of Normandy, what sayest thou
Yes, hang
thy head, and reply not, rather than repeat those words.  Dost thou come
here to disturb the peace of the dead with clamours for vengeance?  Dost
thou vow strife and anger on that sword which was never drawn, save in
the cause of the poor and distressed?  Wouldst thou rob Him, to whose
service thy life has been pledged, and devote thyself to that of His foe?
Is this what thou hast learnt from thy blessed father
Lord Abbot, Lord Abbot, this passes
Our
young Lord is no monk, and we will not see each spark of noble and
knightly spirit quenched as soon as it shows itself
Count of Harcourt
are these the words of a savage
Pagan, or of one who has been washed in yonder blessed font?  Never,
while I have power, shalt thou darken the child's soul with thy foul
thirst of revenge, insult the presence of thy master with the crime he so
abhorred, nor the temple of Him who came to pardon, with thy hatred.
Well do I know, ye Barons of Normandy, that each drop of your blood would
willingly be given, could it bring back our departed Duke, or guard his
orphan child; but, if ye have loved the father, do his bidding -- lay aside
that accursed spirit of hatred and vengeance; if ye love the child, seek
not to injure his soul more deeply than even his bitterest foe, were it
Arnulf himself, hath power to hurt him
These are tears of a softened heart, I trust
I well believe that thou didst scarce know what thou wert saying
Forgive me
See there
thou knowest the meaning of that sacred sign
It speaks of forgiveness
And knowest thou who
gave that pardon?  The Son forgave His murderers; the Father them who
slew His Son.  And shalt thou call for vengeance
But oh
must that cruel, murderous traitor
glory unpunished in his crime, while there lies
Vengeance shall surely overtake the sinner
the vengeance
of the Lord, and in His own good time, but it must not be of thy seeking.
Nay, Richard, thou art of all men the most bound to show love and mercy
to Arnulf of Flanders.  Yes, when the hand of the Lord hath touched him,
and bowed him down in punishment for his crime, it is then, that thou,
whom he hath most deeply injured, shouldst stretch out thine hand to aid
him, and receive him with pardon and peace.  If thou dost vow aught on
the sword of thy blessed father, in the sanctuary of thy Redeemer, let it
be a Christian vow
I will
So help me God
O God,
my Father, help me to keep it
Richard, by the grace of God, I invest thee with
the ducal mantle of Normandy
I, Alberic de Montemar, am thy liegeman and vassal for my
castle and barony of Montemar sur Epte
Poor child
he is
over-wearied with this day's work.  Take care of him, Count Bernard; thou
a kindly nurse, but a rough one for such a babe.  Ha! my young Lord, your
colour mantles at being called a babe!  I crave your pardon, for you are
a fine spirit.  And hark you, Lord Richard of Normandy, I have little
cause to love your race, and little right, I trow, had King Charles the
Simple to call us free Bretons liegemen to a race of plundering Northern
pirates.  To Duke Rollo's might, my father never gave his homage; nay,
nor did I yield it for all Duke William's long sword, but I did pay it to
his generosity and forbearance, and now I grant it to thy weakness and to
his noble memory.  I doubt not that the recreant Frank, Louis, whom he
restored to his throne, will strive to profit by thy youth and
helplessness, and should that be, remember that thou hast no surer friend
than Alan of Brittany.  Fare thee well, my young Duke
Farewell, Sir
Fair words, but I trust not the Breton
hatred is
deeply ingrained in them
He should know what the Frank King is made of
he was bred up with him in the days that they were both
exiles at the court of King Ethelstane of England
Ay, and thanks to Duke William that either Louis or Alan are not exiles
still.  Now we shall see whose gratitude is worth most, the Frank's or
the Breton's.  I suspect the Norman valour will be the best to trust to
Yes, and how will Norman valour prosper without treasure?  Who knows
what gold is in the Duke's coffers
Oh, yes
I know it.  He told me it was the key
to his greatest treasure
Ha! is this all?  What didst say, child
He told me it was his greatest treasure
And it was
Ay
well do I remember their bread; we asked if it was
made of fir-bark, like that of our brethren of Norway
And oh! my noble Duke
the Lord hath been very gracious unto thee!
He has taken thee home to thy rest, long before thou didst dare to hope
for it
Here, my
Lord
Oh, Fru Astrida!  I am very,
very tired of being Duke of Normandy
Ah! the young Baron de Montemar
I knew his father
well, and a brave man he was, though not of northern blood.  He was
warden of the marches of the Epte, and was killed by your father's side
in the inroad of the Viscount du Cotentin, {10} at the time when you were
born, Lord Richard
But where does he live?  Shall I not see him again
Montemar is on the bank of the Epte, in the domain that the French
wrongfully claim from us.  He lives there with his mother, and if he be
not yet returned, you shall see him presently.  Osmond, go you and seek
out the lodgings of the young Montemar, and tell him the Duke would see
him
Well, Lord Duke, here he is.  Have you no better greeting for him
The children are shame-faced
Is your Lady mother in good health, my young sir
I cannot speak the Norman tongue
Take him out, Lord Richard; take him to see the horses in the
stables, or the hounds, or what not
Can you
will you show us
I know I can with my own pony
for Bertrand will not let
me mount in any other way; but I will try with yours, if you desire it,
my Lord
Oh, this is nothing
Bertrand says it is
nothing.  Before he grew old and stiff he could spring into the saddle in
this manner fully armed.  I ought to do this much better
Hark ye, my Lord, what should you say to
have him yonder for a comrade
To stay with me
Oh, thanks, Sir Count; and
may he stay
You are Lord here
Oh, Alberic
will you not stay with me, and be my brother and
comrade
Oh, say that you will!  I will give you horses, and hawks, and hounds,
and I will love you -- almost as well as Osmond.  Oh, stay with me,
Alberic
I must obey you, my Lord
but
Come, young Frenchman, out with it
no buts!  Speak
honestly, and at once, like a Norman, if you can
I had rather not stay here
Ha! not do service to your Lord
I would serve him with all my heart, but I do not want to stay here.  I
love the Castle of Montemar better, and my mother has no one but me
Brave and true, Sir Frenchman
Bear the Count de Harcourt's greetings to
the noble Dame de Montemar, and say to her that her son is of a free bold
spirit, and if she would have him bred up with my Lord Duke, as his
comrade and brother in arms, he will find a ready welcome
So, Alberic, you will come back, perhaps
That must be as my mother pleases
It is Alberic himself, I am sure of it
Oh, I am very glad your mother has sent you
She said she was not fit to bring up a young warrior of the marches
Were you very sorry to come
I dare say I shall not mind it soon; and Bertrand is to come and fetch
me home to visit her every three months, if you will let me go, my Lord
it was to be always Lord and
vassal, and then he did not care for the game
I can't help it
if you take all the best chances to
yourself, 'tis no sport for me.  I will do your bidding, as you are the
Duke, but I cannot like it
Never mind my being Duke, but play as we used to do
Then let us play as I did with Bertrand's sons at Montemar.  I was their
Baron, as you are my Duke, but my mother said there would be no sport
unless we forgot all that at play
Then so we will.  Come, begin again, Alberic, and you shall have the
first turn
a talkation
What may this mean
There must surely be a great arrival
of the vassals.  The Duke of Brittany, perhaps
Oh
we have had one council already this
week.  I hope another is not coming
It must import something extraordinary
It is a
mischance that the Count of Harcourt is not at Rouen just now
They are French.  It is
the Frank tongue, not the Norman, that they speak
So please you, my Lord
we go not rashly
into the midst of them.  I would I knew what were best to do
My Lord Duke
Sir Eric has sent me to
bring you tidings that the King of France has arrived to receive your
homage
The King
Ay
Louis himself, and with a
train looking bent on mischief.  I wish it may portend good to my Lord
here.  You see I am accompanied.  I believe from my heart that Louis
meant to prevent you from receiving a warning, and taking the boy out of
his clutches
Ha! what
Why is the King come?  What must I
do
Go on now, since there is no help for it
Greet the king as becomes you, bend the knee, and pay him homage
The Duke, the Duke
Louis, King of France, I
And is this the son of my brave and noble friend, Duke William?  Ah!  I
should have known it from his likeness.  Let me embrace you again, dear
child, for your father's sake
It is
I, open
Right, Osmond
It is well to be on the alert, for peril enough is around
him -- The Frank means mischief!  I know from a sure hand that Arnulf of
Flanders was in council with him just before he came hither, with his
false tongue, wiling and coaxing the poor child
Ungrateful traitor
Do you guess his purpose
Yes, surely, to carry the boy off with him, and so he trusts doubtless
to cut off all the race of Rollo!  I know his purpose is to bear off the
Duke, as a ward of the Crown forsooth.  Did you not hear him luring the
child with his promises of friendship with the Princes?  I could not
understand all his French words, but I saw it plain enough
You will never allow it
If he does, it must be across our dead bodies; but taken as we are by
surprise, our resistance will little avail.  The Castle is full of
French, the hall and court swarm with them.  Even if we could draw our
Normans together, we should not be more than a dozen men, and what could
we do but die?  That we are ready for, if it may not be otherwise, rather
than let our charge be thus borne off without a pledge for his safety,
and without the knowledge of the states
The king could not have come at a worse time
No, just when Bernard the Dane is absent.  If he only knew what has
befallen, he could raise the country, and come to the rescue
Could we not send some one to bear the tidings to-night
I know not
The French have taken the
keeping of the doors; indeed they are so thick through the Castle that I
can hardly reach one of our men, nor could I spare one hand that may
avail to guard the boy to-morrow
Sir Eric
I did not mean to listen, but I could not
help hearing you.  I cannot fight for the Duke yet, but I could carry a
message
How would that be
Once out of the Castle, and
in Rouen, he could easily find means of sending to the Count.  He might
go either to the Convent of St. Ouen, or, which would be better, to the
trusty armourer, Thibault, who would soon find man and horse to send
after the Count
Ha! let me see
It might be.  But how is he to get
out
I know a way
I scrambled down that wide buttress by
the east wall last week, when our ball was caught in a branch of the ivy,
and the drawbridge is down
If Bernard knew, it would be off my mind, at least
Well, my young Frenchman, you may do good service
Osmond
only
ask one thing of Sir Eric -- never to call me young Frenchman again
Prove yourself Norman, my boy
Then
if it were possible to get the Duke himself out of
the castle to-morrow morning.  If I could take him forth by the postern,
and once bring him into the town, he would be safe.  It would be only to
raise the burghers, or else to take refuge in the Church of Our Lady till
the Count came up, and then Louis would find his prey out of his hands
when he awoke and sought him
That might be
but I doubt your success.  The French
are too eager to hold him fast, to let him slip out of their hands.  You
will find every door guarded
Yes, but all the French have not seen the Duke, and the sight of a
squire and a little page going forth, will scarcely excite their
suspicion
Ay, if the Duke would bear himself like a little page; but that you need
not hope for.  Besides, he is so taken with this King's flatteries, that
I doubt whether he would consent to leave him for the sake of Count
Bernard.  Poor child, he is like to be soon taught to know his true
friends
I am ready
Not by that way, to-day, my Lord
It is crowded with the French who have been
sleeping there all night; come to the postern
None passes without warrant
You will surely let us of the Castle attend to our daily business
You will hardly break your fast this morning if you stop all
communication with the town
You must bring warrant
What?  Do these men want to stop us
Let us go on, sirs
What means
this
The King has given orders that none should pass without warrant
We must wait
I will pass
What mean you, Osmond?  This is my Castle, and no
one has a right to stop me.  Do you hear, grooms? let me go.  I am the
Duke
Our orders are express
I tell you I am Duke of Normandy, and I will go where I please in my own
city
Let
me go, villain
Osmond,
Osmond, help
Nay, my Lord, it is
not for you to strive with such as these
I will strive
I will not have my way barred in my own
Castle.  I will tell the King how these rogues of his use me.  I will
have them in the dungeon.  Sir Eric! where is Sir Eric
Sir Eric, Sir Eric, those
French are villains! they will not let me pass
Hush, hush! my Lord
Silence! come here
So you have failed, Osmond
But what is all this?  How did Fru Astrida come up here?  May I not go
to the King and have those insolent Franks punished
Listen to me, Lord Richard
that smooth-spoken King
whose words so charmed you last night is an ungrateful deceiver.  The
Franks have always hated and feared the Normans, and not being able to
conquer us fairly, they now take to foul means.  Louis came hither from
Flanders, he has brought this great troop of French to surprise us, claim
you as a ward of the crown, and carry you away with him to some prison of
his own
You will not let me go
Not while I live
Alberic is gone to warn the Count of
Harcourt, to call the Normans together, and here we are ready to defend
this chamber to our last breath, but we are few, the French are many, and
succour may be far off
Then you meant to have taken me out of their reach this morning,
Osmond
Yes, my Lord
And if I had not flown into a passion and told who I was, I might have
been safe!  O Sir Eric!  Sir Eric! you will not let me be carried off to
a French prison
Here, my child
Sir Eric will
do all he can for you, but we are in God's hands
I wish I had not been in a
passion
But how came you up all this way
It is a long way for my old limbs
but my
son helped me, and he deems it the only safe place in the Castle
The safest
and that is not saying much for it
Hark
what a tramping the Franks are making.  They are
beginning to wonder where the Duke is
To the stairs, Osmond
On that narrow step one man may
keep them at bay a long time.  You can speak their jargon too, and hold
parley with them
Perhaps they will think I am gone
if they cannot
find me, and go away
Ha!  Norman
what are you doing
here
My duty
I am here to guard this stair
Norman -- good Norman
What would you say
What means all this, my friend
Our King
comes as a guest to you, and you received him last evening as loyal
vassals.  Wherefore have you now drawn out of the way, and striven to
bear off your young Duke into secret places?  Truly it looks not well
that you should thus strive to keep him apart, and therefore the King
requires to see him instantly
Sir Frenchman
your King claims the Duke as his ward.
How that may be my father knows not, but as he was committed to his
charge by the states of Normandy, he holds himself bound to keep him in
his own hands until further orders from them
That means, insolent Norman, that you intend to shut the boy up and keep
him in your own rebel hands.  You had best yield -- it will be the better
for you and for him.  The child is the King's ward, and he shall not be
left to be nurtured in rebellion by northern pirates
Haro!  Haro! our little
Duke
Ha Rollo
Haro
There is a Frank Baron come to entreat, and this time very
humbly, that the Duke may come to the King
Tell him
that save with consent of the council of
Normandy, the child leaves not my hands
He says
that you shall guard him
yourself, with as many as you choose to bring with you.  He declares on
the faith of a free Baron, that the King has no thought of ill -- he wants
to show him to the Rouennais without, who are calling for him, and
threaten to tear down the tower rather than not see their little Duke.
Shall I bid him send a hostage
Answer him
that the Duke leaves not this chamber
unless a pledge is put into our hands for his safety.  There was an
oily-tongued Count, who sat next the King at supper -- let him come hither,
and then perchance I may trust the Duke among them
_Dieu aide_
Notre Dame de Harcourt
There, there
the boy has sped well.  Bernard is here at last!
Now his head and hand are there, I doubt no longer
Here comes the Count
Now, mother, if aught of evil befalls the child, you know
your part.  Come, Lord Richard
What means this, my Lords
Here am I come in all
good will, in memory of my warm friendship with Duke William, to take on
me the care of his orphan, and hold council with you for avenging his
death, and is this the greeting you afford me?  You steal away the child,
and stir up the rascaille of Rouen against me.  Is this the reception for
your King
Sir King
what your intentions may be, I know not.
All I do know is, that the burghers of Rouen are fiercely incensed
against you -- so much so, that they were almost ready to tear me to pieces
for being absent at this juncture.  They say that you are keeping the
child prisoner in his own Castle and that they will have him restored if
they tear it down to the foundations
You are a true man, a loyal man -- you understand my good intentions
You
would not bring the shame of rebellion on your town and people.  Advise
me -- I will do just as you counsel me -- how shall I appease them
Take the child, lead him to the window, swear that you mean him no evil,
that you will not take him from us
Swear it on the
faith of a King
As a King -- as a Christian, it is true
Here, my boy!
Wherefore shrink from me?  What have I done, that you should fear me?
You have been listening to evil tales of me, my child.  Come hither
Long live Richard, our little Duke
I will do all I may, but our force is
small, and the King has the best of it.  We must not yet bring a war on
ourselves
Hark! he is going to speak
Fair Sirs!-- excellent burgesses
I rejoice to see the love ye bear to our young Prince!  I
would all my subjects were equally loyal!  But wherefore dread me, as if
I were come to injure him?  I, who came but to take counsel how to avenge
the death of his father, who brought me back from England when I was a
friendless exile.  Know ye not how deep is the debt of gratitude I owe to
Duke William?  He it was who made me King -- it was he who gained me the
love of the King of Germany; he stood godfather for my son -- to him I owe
all my wealth and state, and all my care is to render guerdon for it to
his child, since, alas!  I may not to himself.  Duke William rests in his
bloody grave!  It is for me to call his murderers to account, and to
cherish his son, even as mine own
Long live King Louis
Long live Richard
You will not let the child go
Not without provision for his safety, but we are not fit for war as yet,
and to let him go is the only means of warding it off
Bring me here
all that you deem most holy, and you
shall see me pledge myself to be your Duke's most faithful friend
swore that so
he would
Amen
and as thou keepest that
oath to the fatherless child, so may the Lord do unto thine house
And
no dearer vassal
do I hold in all my realm than this fair child, son of my murdered friend
and benefactor -- precious to me as my own children, as so on my Queen and
I hope to testify
Now, brave Normans
be ye ready speedily, for an onset
on the traitor Fleming.  The cause of my ward is my own cause.  Soon
shall the trumpet be sounded, the ban and arriere ban of the realm be
called forth, and Arnulf, in the flames of his cities, and the blood of
his vassals, shall learn to rue the day when his foot trod the Isle of
Pecquigny!  How many Normans can you bring to the muster, Sir Count
I cannot say, within a few hundreds of lances
it depends on the numbers that may be engaged in the Italian
war with the Saracens, but of this be sure, Sir King, that every man in
Normandy and Brittany who can draw a sword or bend a bow, will stand
forth in the cause of our little Duke; ay, and that his blessed father's
memory is held so dear in our northern home, that it needs but a message
to King Harold Blue-tooth to bring a fleet of long keels into the Seine,
with stout Danes enough to carry fire and sword, not merely through
Flanders, but through all France.  We of the North are not apt to forget
old friendships and favours, Sir King
Yes, yes, I know the Norman faith of old
but we should scarcely need such wild allies as you propose; the Count
of Paris, and Hubert of Senlis may be reckoned on, I suppose
No truer friend to Normandy than gallant and wise old Hugh the White
and as to Senlis, he is uncle to the boy, and doubly bound
to us
I rejoice to see your confidence
You shall soon hear
from me.  In the meantime I must return to gather my force together, and
summon my great vassals, and I will, with your leave, brave Normans, take
with me my dear young ward.  His presence will plead better in his cause
than the finest words; moreover, he will grow up in love and friendship
with my two boys, and shall be nurtured with them in all good learning
and chivalry, nor shall he ever be reminded that he is an orphan while
under the care of Queen Gerberge and myself
Let the child come to me, so please you, my Lord the King
I must hold some converse with him, ere I can
reply
Go then, Richard
go to your trusty vassal -- happy are you
in possessing such a friend; I hope you know his value
Here then, young Sir
what say
you to this proposal
The King is very kind
I am sure he is kind; but I do
not like to go from Rouen, or from Dame Astrida
Listen, my Lord
The
King is resolved to have you away; he has with him the best of his
Franks, and has so taken us at unawares, that though I might yet rescue
you from his hands, it would not be without a fierce struggle, wherein
you might be harmed, and this castle and town certainly burnt, and
wrested from us.  A few weeks or months, and we shall have time to draw
our force together, so that Normandy need fear no man, and for that time
you must tarry with him
Must I -- and all alone
No, not alone, not without the most trusty guardian that can be found
for you.  Friend Eric, what say you
Yet, I know not; true thou art, as a Norwegian
mountain, but I doubt me if thy brains are not too dull to see through
the French wiles and disguises, sharp as thou didst show thyself last
night
That was Osmond, not I
He knows their mincing tongue
better than I.  He were the best to go with the poor child, if go he
must
Bethink you, Eric
Osmond is the only
hope of your good old house -- if there is foul play, the guardian will be
the first to suffer
Since you think fit to peril the only hope of all Normandy, I am not the
man to hold back my son where he may aid him
The poor child will be lonely and uncared-for there, and it were hard he
should not have one faithful comrade and friend with him
It is well
young as he is, I had rather trust Osmond
with the child than any one else, for he is ready of counsel, and quick
of hand
Ay, and a pretty pass it is come to
that we,
whose business it is to guard the boy, should send him where you scarcely
like to trust my son
I will, grandmother, to the very best of my power
I may
die in his cause, but never will I be faithless
Alberic
are you glad to be going back to Montemar
Yes, my Lord
as glad as you will be to
come back to Rouen
Then I shall send for you directly, Alberic, for I shall never love the
Princes Carloman and Lothaire half as well as you
My Lord the King is waiting for the Duke
Farewell then, Fru Astrida.  Do not weep.  I shall soon come back.
Farewell, Alberic.  Take the bar-tailed falcon back to Montemar, and keep
him for my sake.  Farewell, Sir Eric -- Farewell, Count Bernard.  When the
Normans come to conquer Arnulf you will lead them.  O dear, dear Fru
Astrida, farewell again
Farewell, my own darling.  The blessing of Heaven go with you, and bring
you safe home!  Farewell, Osmond.  Heaven guard you and strengthen you to
be his shield and his defence
Long live Duke Richard!  Long live King Louis!  Death to
the Fleming
Long live the King!
Blessings on the little Duke
Sir Seneschal
this is the Duke of Normandy -- I pray you
conduct him to the King's presence
Place -- place for the high
and mighty Prince, my Lord Duke of Normandy
There he is
One thing secure
but what makes that northern giant
keep close to his heels
I tell you I will not
She looks cross, and I do not
like her
A thorough little Norwegian bear
fierce and unruly as
the rest.  Come, and perform your courtesy -- do you forget where you are
Place for the high and mighty Princes,
my Lord Lothaire and my Lord Carloman
There is a new
play-fellow for you
Is that the little Northman
Yes
your father has brought him home with him
I am the eldest; it is my business
to be first.  So, young Northman, you are come here for us to play with
Ha! why don't you answer?  Don't you hear?  Can you speak only your own
heathen tongue
The Norman is no heathen tongue
We are as good Christians as you are -- ay, and better
too
Hush! hush! my Lord
What now, Sir Duke
are
you brawling already?  Time, indeed, I should take you from your own
savage court.  Sir Squire, look to it, that you keep your charge in
better rule, or I shall send him instantly to bed, supperless
My Lord, my Lord
see you not that you are bringing
discredit on all of us
I would be courteous enough, if they would be courteous to me
So strong, so rough, the young savage is, he will surely
harm our poor boys
Never fear
he shall be watched.  And
for the present, at least, we must keep up appearances.
Hubert of Senlis, and Hugh of Paris, have their eyes on us, and were the
boy to be missed, the grim old Harcourt would have all the pirates of his
land on us in the twinkling of an eye.  We have him, and there we must
rest content for the present.  Now to supper
Do you
like salt beef or fresh
I like fresh
only we eat salt
all the winter
How old are you
I shall be nine on the eve of St. Boniface.  How old are you
Eight.  I was eight at Martinmas, and Lothaire was nine three days
since
Is that your Squire
Yes, that is Osmond de Centeville
How tall he is
We Normans are taller than you French
Don't say so to Lothaire, or you will make him angry
Why? it is true
Yes; but
there are some things which
Lothaire will not hear said.  Do not make him cross, or he will make my
mother displeased with you.  She caused Thierry de Lincourt to be
scourged, because his ball hit Lothaire's face
She cannot scourge me -- I am a free Duke
But why?  Did
he do it on purpose
Oh, no
And was Lothaire hurt
Hush! you must say Prince Lothaire.  No; it was quite a soft ball
Why
why was he scourged
I told you, because he hit Lothaire
Well, but did he not laugh, and say it was nothing?  Alberic quite
knocked me down with a great snowball the other day, and Sir Eric
laughed, and said I must stand firmer
Do you make snowballs
To be sure I do!  Do not you
Oh, no! the snow is so cold
Ah! you are but a little boy
It was as
if he had been in a church
Yes, truly
No wonder these poor creatures of French
cannot stand before a Norman lance, if they cannot sleep without glass to
their windows.  Well! what would my father say to this
And see! see, Osmond! they have put hangings up all round the walls,
just like our Lady's church on a great feast-day.  They treat us just as
if we were the holy saints; and here are fresh rushes strewn about the
floor, too.  This must be a mistake -- it must be an oratory, instead of my
chamber
No, no, my Lord; here is our gear, which I bade Sybald and Henry see
bestowed in our chamber.  Well, these Franks are come to a pass, indeed!
My grandmother will never believe what we shall have to tell her.  Glass
windows and hangings to sleeping chambers! I do not like it I am sure we
shall never be able to sleep, closed up from the free air of heaven in
this way: I shall be always waking, and fancying I am in the chapel at
home, hearing Father Lucas chanting his matins.  Besides, my father would
blame me for letting you be made as tender as a Frank.  I'll have out
this precious window, if I can
no wonder the Franks thought he had no more culture than a Viking
(or pirate), fresh caught from Norway.  A fine notion he was giving them
of the training he had at Centeville, if he could not even show common
civility to the Queen -- a lady!  Was that the way Alberic had behaved when
he came to Rouen
Fru Astrida did not make sour faces at him, nor call him a young
savage
No, and he gave her no reason to do so; he knew that the first teaching
of a young Knight is to be courteous to ladies -- never mind whether fair
and young, or old and foul of favour.  Till you learn and note that, Lord
Richard, you will never be worthy of your golden spurs
And the King told me she would treat me as a mother
Do you think the King speaks the truth, Osmond
That we shall see by his deeds
He was very kind while we were in Normandy.  I loved him so much better
than the Count de Harcourt; but now I think that the Count is best!  I'll
tell you, Osmond, I will never call him grim old Bernard again
You had best not, sir, for you will never have a more true-hearted
vassal
Well, I wish we were back in Normandy, with Fru Astrida and Alberic.  I
cannot bear that Lothaire.  He is proud, and unknightly, and cruel.  I am
sure he is, and I will never love him
Hush, my Lord!-- beware of speaking so loud.  You are not in your own
Castle
And Carloman is a chicken-heart
He
does not like to touch snow, and he cannot even slide on the ice, and he
is afraid to go near that great dog -- that beautiful wolf-hound
He is very little
I am sure I was not as cowardly at his age, now was I, Osmond?  Don't
you remember
Come, Lord Richard, I cannot let you wait to remember everything; tell
your beads and pray that we may be brought safe back to Rouen; and that
you may not forget all the good that Father Lucas and holy Abbot Martin
have laboured to teach you
I will not have it done
Do you
think you are master here, Sir pirate
I will not have it done
Shame on you, shame on
you, for thinking of such an unkingly deed
Shame on me! Do you know to whom you speak, master savage
I know who is the savage now
Hold
Hold
No one commands here but I and my father.
Go on Charlot -- where is the bird?  Keep her fast, Giles
Osmond.  You I can command
Come away, my Lord
We have no right to interfere here, and cannot hinder it.
Come away from such a foul sight
Shame on you too, Osmond, to let such a deed be done without hindering
it
Safe! safe
Oh, how
glad I am!  That young villain should never have hurt her.  Put me down,
Osmond, what are you doing with me
Saving you from your -- no, I cannot call it folly,-- I would hardly have
had you stand still to see such -- but let me see your face
It is nothing.  I don't care now the hawk is safe
'Tis not much
half bruise, half burn -- I wish my grandmother was
here -- however, it can't last long!  'Tis right, you bear it like a little
Berserkar, and it is no bad thing that you should have a scar to show,
that they may not be able to say you did _all_ the damage
Will it always leave a mark
I am afraid they will call
me Richard of the scarred cheek, when we get back to Normandy
Never mind, if they do -- it will not be a mark to be ashamed of, even if
it does last, which I do not believe it will
Oh, no, I am so glad the gallant falcon is out of his reach
Does it smart much?  Well, come and bathe it with cold water -- or shall I
take you to one of the Queen's women
No -- the water
How is this
What means this
conduct, my Lord of Normandy?  Know you what you have done in striking
the heir of France?  I might imprison you this instant in a dungeon where
you would never see the light of day
Then Bernard de Harcourt would come and set me free
Do you bandy words with me, child? Ask Prince Lothaire's pardon
instantly, or you shall rue it
I have done nothing to ask his pardon for.  It would have been cruel and
cowardly in me to let him put out the poor hawk's eyes
Hawk's eyes
Speak the truth, Sir Duke; do not add
slander to your other faults
I have spoken the truth -- I always speak it
Whoever
says otherwise lies in his throat
So you have escaped for this once
you had better beware another time.  Come with me, my poor darling
Lothaire
Oh, Sir
are you going to
Normandy
Not yet, my boy, but it may be that I may have to meet old Harcourt at
the Elm of Gisors
Oh, if I was but going with you
I wish I could take you, but it would scarcely do for me to steal the
heir of Normandy.  What shall I tell him
Tell him
tell him that I am sorry, now, that I was
sullen when he reproved me.  I know he was right.  And, sir, if he brings
with him a certain huntsman with a long hooked nose, whose name is
Walter, {12} tell him I am sorry I used to order him about so unkindly.
And tell him to bear my greetings to Fru Astrida and Sir Eric, and to
Alberic
Shall I tell him how you have marked your face
No
he would think me a baby to care about such a thing
as that
Well, my little Duke, I am as glad as you are
the gallant bird is safe -- it will be a tale for my own little Hugh and
Eumacette {13} at home -- and you must one day be friends with them as your
father has been with me.  And now, do you think your Squire could come to
my chamber late this evening when the household is at rest
Comes not
the Duke to the banquet
No
he eats not with the slayer of his father
The King will take it amiss; for the sake of the child you had better
beware
He had better beware himself
how he
brings the treacherous murderer of William Longsword into the presence of
a free-born Norman, unless he would see him slain where he stands.  Were
it not for the boy, I would challenge the traitor this instant to single
combat
Well, I can scarce blame you
but you had best have a
care how you tread.  Farewell
Tell Prince Lothaire
that I am not such a glutton as
he -- I had rather fast than be choked with eating with Arnulf
Here I am at last
Here,
Richard, I have brought you some bread, as you had no dinner: it was all
I could bring.  I saved it under the table lest Lothaire should see it
What was that great noise in the court
I scarcely like to tell you
What means this
Knew you not that the King has
left commands that the Duke quits not the Castle in his absence
I was only going as far as the river
Silence, child -- I will hear no excuses.  Perhaps you think,
Sieur de Centeville, that you may take liberties in the King's absence,
but I tell you that if you are found without the walls again, it shall be
at your peril; ay, and his!  I'll have those haughty eyes put out, if you
disobey
You will not lord it over your betters much longer, young
pirate
Oh, Osmond!  Osmond
they shall not hurt you.  I will
never go out again.  I will never speak another hasty word.  I will never
affront the Prince, if they will but leave you with me
Come in, holy pilgrim
It is late, and you shall sup
and rest here to-night
Blessings from Heaven light on you, noble Prince
A Norman, a Norman! 'tis my
own dear speech!  Oh, are you not from Normandy?  Osmond, Osmond! he
comes from home
My Lord! my own Lord
This is joy unlooked for
Walter!-- Walter, the huntsman
Is it you?  Oh, how is
Fru Astrida, and all at home
Well, my Lord, and wearying to know how it is with you
What is all this?  Who is stopping my way?  What!  Richard would be
King, and more, would he?  More insolence
He is a Norman -- a vassal of Richard's own
A Norman, is he?  I thought we had got rid of the robbers!  We want no
robbers here!  Scourge him soundly, Perron, and teach him how to stop my
way
He is a pilgrim, my Lord
I care not; I'll have no Normans here, coming spying in disguise.
Scourge him, I say, dog that he is!  Away with him!  A spy, a spy
No Norman is scourged in my sight
My Lord Duke!  What have you done?  Oh, leave me -- this befits you not
Away, away! run! haste, haste
Ay, ay, the witch!
coming to finish what she has begun
Thanks
to Heaven, they shall fail for this time and they shall never have
another chance!  May Heaven be with us still
Now, my Lord, guard the door -- take care
you have no loss
to-day, for the King has brought home Herluin of Montreuil, whom you
would be almost as loth to meet as the Fleming.  And tell your beads
while I am gone, that the Saints may bring us out of our peril
What is this for
I wanted my supper, and you have brought straw
Here is your supper
What should you say, my Lord,
if we should sup in Normandy to-morrow night
In Normandy
In
Normandy!  Oh, Osmond, did you say in Normandy?  Shall we, shall we
really?  Oh, joy! joy!  Is Count Bernard come?  Will the King let us go
Hush! hush, sir!  It must be our own doing; it will all fail if you are
not silent and prudent, and we shall be undone
I will do anything to get home again
Eat first
But what are you going to do?  I will not be as foolish as I was when
you tried to get me safe out of Rollo's tower.  But I should like to wish
Carloman farewell
That must not be
we should not have time to escape, if
they did not still believe you very ill in bed
I am sorry not to wish Carloman good-bye
but we
shall see Fru Astrida again, and Sir Eric; and Alberic must come back!
Oh, do let us go!  O Normandy, dear Normandy
I shall hide you in it
and carry you through the hall, as if I was going to feed my
horse
Oh, they will never guess
I will be quite
still -- I will make no noise -- I will hold my breath
Yes, mind you do not move hand or foot, or rustle the straw.  It is no
play -- it is life or death
There, can you breathe
Yes
Am I quite hidden
Entirely.  Now, remember, whatever happens, do not move.  May Heaven
protect us!  Now, the Saints be with us
Tending your
horse, Sieur de Centeville
Yes
You know, since we lost our grooms, the poor
black would come off badly, did I not attend to him
O Osmond de Centeville! is Richard
better
He is better, my Lord, I thank you, but hardly yet out of danger
Oh, I wish he was well!  And when will you let me come to him, Osmond?
Indeed, I would sit quiet, and not disturb him
It may not be yet, my Lord, though the Duke loves you well -- he told me
so but now
Did he?  Oh, tell him I love him very much -- better than any one
here -- and it is very dull without him.  Tell him so, Osmond
All right
so far.  You can breathe
Not well.  Can't you let me out
Not yet -- not for worlds.  Now tell me if I put you face downwards, for I
cannot see
Free! free!-- this is freedom
the Queen and Lothaire, and that grim
room, all far behind
Not so far yet
you must not call yourself safe till the
Epte is between us and them.  Into the saddle, my Lord; we must ride for
our lives
Sir merchant
see you this steed?  Better
horse never was ridden; but he is sorely spent, and we must make speed.
Let me barter him with you for yonder stout palfrey.  He is worth twice
as much, but I cannot stop to chaffer -- ay or no at once
The Epte! the Epte!  There is Normandy, sir!  Look up, and see your own
dukedom
Normandy
Oh, my own
home
We must try it
Hold!  None pass the ford of
Montemar without permission of the noble Dame Yolande
Ha! Bertrand,
the Seneschal, is that you
Who calls me by my name
It is I, Osmond de Centeville.  Open your gates
quickly, Sir Seneschal; for here is the Duke, sorely in need of rest and
refreshment
The Duke
The Duke! the Duke
Look up, my Lord,
look up!  You are in your own dukedom again, and this is Alberic's
castle
Welcome, indeed, most noble Lord Duke!  Blessings on the day
What joy for my Lady and my young Lord
He is sorely weary
He had been very sick ere I
brought him away.  I doubt me they sought to poison him, and I vowed not
to tarry at Laon another hour after he was fit to move.  But cheer up, my
Lord; you are safe and free now, and here is the good Dame de Montemar to
tend you, far better than a rude Squire like me
Alas, no
our Dame is gone with young Alberic on a
pilgrimage to Jumieges to pray for the Duke's safety.  What joy for them
to know that their prayers have been granted
Alas! alas
I have been too hasty.  I have but saved him
from the Franks to be his death by my own imprudence
Hush!  Sieur de Centeville
To talk in that manner is the way to be his death, indeed.  Leave
the child to me -- he is only over-weary
Alberic! Alberic
My Lord! my Lord
And is it true?  Oh, am I really in Normandy again
Yes, yes!-- oh, yes, my Lord!  You are at Montemar.  Everything here is
yours.  The bar-tailed hawk is quite well, and my mother will be here
this evening; she let me ride on the instant we heard the news
We rode long and late, and I was very weary
but I don't
care, now we are at home.  But I can hardly believe it!  Oh, Alberic, it
has been very dreary
See here, my Lord
Look here,
and you will know you are at home again
There! there
Oh, there is the horse-shoe of Ferrieres! and
there the chequers of Warenne!  Oh, and best of all, there is -- there is
our own red pennon of Centeville!  O Alberic!  Alberic! is Sir Eric here?
I must go down to him
Bertrand sent out notice to them all, as soon as you came, to come and
guard our Castle
lest the Franks should pursue you; but
you are safe now -- safe as Norman spears can make you -- thanks be to God
Yes, thanks to God
I must thank Him, indeed, for he
has saved Osmond and me from the cruel King and Queen, and I must try to
be a less hasty and overbearing boy than I was when I went away; for I
vowed that so I would be, if ever I came back.  Poor Osmond, how soundly
he sleeps! Come, Alberic, show me the way to Sir Eric
Sir
Eric -- dear Sir Eric, here I am! Osmond is safe!  And is Fru Astrida
well
My child
Blessed be
God that you are safe, and that my son has done his duty
And is Fru Astrida well
Yes, right well, since she heard of your safety.  But look round, my
Lord; it befits not a Duke to be clinging thus round an old man's neck.
See how many of your true vassals be here, to guard you from the villain
Franks
I thank
you, gallant knights, for coming to guard me.  I do not fear the whole
French host now I am among my own true Normans
Long
live Duke Richard
Blessings on the little Duke
It is the Count of Harcourt's note
Welcome, Count Bernard,
welcome.  Thank you for coming to guard me.  I am very glad to see you
once more
Ah, my young Lord
I am right glad to see you out of the
clutches of the Franks! You know friend from foe now, methinks
Yes, indeed I do, Count Bernard.  I know you meant kindly by me, and
that I ought to have thanked you, and not been angry, when you reproved
me.  Wait one moment, Sir Count; there is one thing that I promised
myself to say if ever I came safe to my own dear home.
Walter -- Maurice -- Jeannot -- all you of my household, and of Sir Eric's -- I
know, before I went away, I was often no good Lord to you; I was
passionate, and proud, and overbearing; but God has punished me for it,
when I was far away among my enemies, and sick and lonely.  I am very
sorry for it, and I hope you will pardon me; for I will strive, and I
hope God will help me, never to be proud and passionate again
There, Sir Eric
you hear what the boy says.  If he
speaks it out so bold and free, without bidding, and if he holds to what
he says, I doubt it not that he shall not grieve for his journey to
France, and that we shall see him, in all things, such a Prince as his
father of blessed memory
You must thank Osmond for me
It is Osmond who has helped me to bear my troubles;
and as to saving me, why he flew away with me even like an old eagle with
its eaglet.  I say, Osmond, you must ever after this wear a pair of wings
on shield and pennon, to show how well we managed our flight
As you will, my Lord
but 'twas a good long
flight at a stretch, and I trust never to have to fly before your foes or
mine again
Sigurd's
sword, and the maiden sleeping within the ring of flame
My father's Castle!  My own
city in the hands of the foe!  Bernard is a traitor then!  None shall
hinder me from so calling him.  Why did we trust him
Never fear, Lord Duke
When you come to the years of
Knighthood, your own sword shall right you, in spite of all the false
Danes, and falser Franks, in the land
What! you too, son Osmond?  I deemed you carried a cooler brain than to
miscall one who was true to Rollo's race before you or yon varlet were
born
He has yielded my dukedom!  It is mis-calling to say he is aught but a
traitor
Vile, treacherous, favour-seeking
Peace, peace, my Lord
Bernard has more in that wary
head of his than your young wits, or my old ones, can unwind.  What he is
doing I may not guess, but I gage my life his heart is right
What say you now, my Lord
The Black Raven has spread its wings.  Fifty keels are in
the Seine, and Harald Blue-tooth's Long Serpent at the head of them
The King of Denmark! Come to my aid
Ay, that he is!  Come at Bernard's secret call, to right you, and put
you on your father's seat.  Now call honest Harcourt a traitor, because
he gave not up your fair dukedom to the flame and sword
No traitor to me
No, verily, but what more
would you say
I think, when I come to my dukedom, I will not be so politic
I will be an open friend or an open foe
The boy grows too sharp for us
but it was
spoken like his father
He grows more like his blessed father each day
But the Danes, father, the Danes
Blows will be passing
now.  I may join the host and win my spurs
With all my heart
so my Lord here gives you
leave: would that I could leave him and go with you.  It would do my very
spirit good but to set foot in a Northern keel once more
I would fain see what these men of the North are
Oh! they are only Danes, not Norsemen, and there are no Vikings, such as
once were when Ragnar laid waste
Son, son, what talk is this for the child's ears
are these words for a Christian Baron
Your pardon, mother
but my
blood thrills to hear of a Northern fleet at hand, and to think of Osmond
drawing sword under a Sea-King
Your wings! our wings
the bearing of Centeville
May they fly after the foe, not before him
Speed thee
well, my son -- let not our Danish cousins say we learn Frank graces
instead of Northern blows
I see!
Look, my Lord, a speck there on the heath
I do not see! where, oh where
He is behind the hillock now, but -- oh, there again!  How fast he comes
It is like the flight of a bird
fast, fast
If only it be not flight in earnest
No, young Sir
no fear of that.  I know how men ride
when they flee from the battle
No, indeed, there is no discomfiture in the pace of that steed
I see him clearer!  I see the horse
You will be
over the battlements! hold still! better hear of a battle lost than
that
He bears somewhat in his hand
A banner or pennon
methinks he rides like the young
Baron
He does!  My brave boy!  He has done good service
The Danes have seen how we train
our young men
His wings bring good tidings
Let me go, Sir Eric, I
must tell Fru Astrida
A great victory -- the King a prisoner -- Montreuil slain
Rude comrades, father, I must own
I could not pledge them in a skull-goblet -- set in gold though
it were
None the worse warriors
Ay, ay, and you were dainty,
and brooked not the hearty old fashion of tearing the whole sheep to
pieces.  You must needs cut your portion with the fine French knife at
your girdle
On the bank of the Dive
Ah, father, you might well call
old Harcourt wary -- his name might better have been Fox-heart than
Bear-heart!  He had sent to the Franks a message of distress, that the
Danes were on him in full force, and to pray them to come to his aid
I trust there was no treachery.  No foul dealing shall be wrought in my
name
No, or should I tell the tale with joy like this
Bernard's view was to bring the Kings together, and let Louis see you
had friends to maintain your right.  He sought but to avoid bloodshed
And how chanced it
The Danes were encamped on the Dive, and so soon as the French came in
sight, Blue-tooth sent a messenger to Louis, to summon him to quit
Neustria, and leave it to you, its lawful owner.  Thereupon, Louis,
hoping to win him over with wily words, invited him to hold a personal
conference
Where were you, Osmond
Where I had scarce patience to be.  Bernard had gathered all of us
honest Normans together, and arranged us beneath that standard of the
King, as if to repel his Danish inroad.  Oh, he was, in all seeming,
hand-and-glove with Louis, guiding him by his counsel, and, verily,
seeming his friend and best adviser!  But in one thing he could not
prevail.  That ungrateful recreant, Herluin of Montreuil, came with the
King, hoping, it seems, to get his share of our spoils; and when Bernard
advised the King to send him home, since no true Norman could bear the
sight of him, the hot-headed Franks vowed no Norman should hinder them
from bringing whom they chose.  So a tent was set up by the riverside,
wherein the two Kings, with Bernard, Alan of Brittany, and Count Hugh,
held their meeting.  We all stood without, and the two hosts began to
mingle together, we Normans making acquaintance with the Danes.  There
was a red-haired, wild-looking fellow, who told me he had been with
Anlaff in England, and spoke much of the doings of Hako in Norway; when,
suddenly, he pointed to a Knight who was near, speaking to a Cotentinois,
and asked me his name.  My blood boiled as I answered, for it was
Montreuil himself!  'The cause of your Duke's death!' said the Dane.
'Ha, ye Normans are fallen sons of Odin, to see him yet live
You said, I trust, my son, that we follow not the laws of Odin
I had no space for a word, grandmother; the Danes took the vengeance on
themselves.  In one moment they rushed on Herluin with their axes, and
the unhappy man was dead.  All was tumult; every one struck without
knowing at whom, or for what.  Some shouted, '_Thor Hulfe_!' some '_Dieu
aide_!' others '_Montjoie St. Denis_!'  Northern blood against French,
that was all our guide.  I found myself at the foot of this standard, and
had a hard combat for it; but I bore it away at last
And the Kings
They hurried out of the tent, it seems, to rejoin their men.  Louis
mounted, but you know of old, my Lord, he is but an indifferent horseman,
and the beast carried him into the midst of the Danes, where King Harald
caught his bridle, and delivered him to four Knights to keep.  Whether he
dealt secretly with them, or whether they, as they declared, lost sight
of him whilst plundering his tent, I cannot say; but when Harald demanded
him of them, he was gone
Gone! is this what you call having the King prisoner
You shall hear.  He rode four leagues, and met one of the baser sort of
Rouennais, whom he bribed to hide him in the Isle of Willows.  However,
Bernard made close inquiries, found the fellow had been seen in speech
with a French horseman, pounced on his wife and children, and threatened
they should die if he did not disclose the secret.  So the King was
forced to come out of his hiding-place, and is now fast guarded in
Rollo's tower -- a Dane, with a battle-axe on his shoulder, keeping guard
at every turn of the stairs
Ha! ha
I wonder how he likes it.  I wonder if he
remembers holding me up to the window, and vowing that he meant me only
good
When you believed him, my Lord
I was a little boy then
Why, the very walls
must remind him of his oath, and how Count Bernard said, as he dealt with
me, so might Heaven deal with him
Remember it, my child -- beware of broken vows
but
remember it not in triumph over a fallen foe.  It were better that all
came at once to the chapel, to bestow their thanksgivings where alone
they are due
I shall rejoice to have Carloman, and make him happy
but I wish Lothaire were not coming
Perhaps
he comes that you may have a first
trial in your father's last lesson, and Abbot Martin's, and return good
for evil
That cannot be the Princes
that
must surely be some sick lady
I only hope it is not the Queen
But
no; Lothaire is such a coward, no doubt he was afraid to ride, and she
would not trust her darling without shutting him up like a demoiselle.
But come down, Alberic; I will say nothing unkind of Lothaire, if I can
help it
Carloman!-- dear Carloman!-- do not cry.  Come out!  It is I -- your own
Richard!  Will you not let me welcome you
Oh, Richard, send us back!  Do not let the savage Danes kill us
No one will hurt you.  There are no Danes here.  You are my guest, my
friend, my brother.  Look up! here is my own Fru Astrida
But my mother said the Northmen would kill us for keeping you captive.
She wept and raved, and the cruel men dragged us away by force.  Oh, let
us go back
I cannot do that
for you are the King of Denmark's
captives, not mine; but I will love you, and you shall have all that is
mine, if you will only not cry, dear Carloman.  Oh, Fru Astrida, what
shall I do?  You comfort him
I say, Sir Duke
is there nothing to be had in this old den
of yours?  Not a drop of Bordeaux
As if I would taste your mean peasant drinks! I bade them bring my
supper -- why does it not come
Because you are not master here
Do not make them angry,
Lothaire
What, crying still, foolish child
Do you not know
that if they dare to cross us, my father will treat them as they deserve?
Bring supper, I say, and let me have a pasty of ortolans
There are none -- they are not in season
Do you mean to give me nothing I like?  I tell you it shall be the worse
for you
There is a pullet roasting
I tell you, I do not care for pullets -- I will have ortolans
If I do not take order with that boy, my name is not Eric
What must he not have made our poor child suffer
but the little one moves my heart.  How small and weakly he is, but it
is worth anything to see our little Duke so tender to him
He is too brave not to be gentle
Take that dog away
Take it away
Prince Lothaire
I care not what else you do, but my dogs and
my people you shall not maltreat
I tell you I am Prince!  I do what I will!  Ha! who laughs there
It is not so easy for French Princes to scourge free-born Normans here
there is a reckoning for
the stripe my Lord Duke bore for me
Hush, hush, Walter
I would have
you to know, young Sir, Prince though you be, you are our prisoner, and
shall taste of a dungeon, and bread and water, unless you behave
yourself
Let him alone for the present
when he knows his master, we shall have peace
Oh, do not put me in the dungeon.  I cannot bear the dark
Oh! they said you would beat and hurt us for what we did to you! but,
indeed, it was not I that burnt your cheek
We would not hurt you for worlds, dear Carloman; Lothaire is not in the
dungeon -- he is only shut up till he is good
It was Lothaire that did it
and, indeed, you must
not be angry with me, for my mother was so cross with me for not having
stopped Osmond when I met him with the bundle of straw, that she gave me
a blow, that knocked me down.  And were you really there, Richard
I thought you would be good to me
As to Lothaire, it
serves him right, that you should use him as he used you
Oh, no, Carloman; if I had a brother I would never speak so of him
But Lothaire is so unkind
Ah! but we must be kind to those who are unkind to us
No one
ever told me so before
Oh, Carloman, not Brother Hilary
I never heed Brother Hilary -- he is so lengthy, and wearisome; besides,
no one is ever kind to those that hate them
My father was
And they killed him
Yes
but he is gone to be in peace
I wonder if it is happier there, than here
I am not
happy.  But tell me why should we be good to those that hate us
Because the holy Saints were -- and look at the Crucifix, Carloman.  That
was for them that hated Him.  And, don't you know what our Pater Noster
says
Prince Lothaire
here is
Get away
If it is your turn now,
it will be mine by and by.  I wish my mother had kept her word, and put
your eyes out
It is a foul shame of
you to speak so, when I only came out of kindness to you -- so I shall
leave you here all night, and not ask Sir Eric to let you out
Prince, Prince, I am sorry I was angry.  Come out, and let us try to be
friends
What do you mean
Come out of the cold and dark.  Here am I.  I will show you the way.
Where is your hand?  Oh, how cold it is.  Let me lead you down to the
hall fire
Prince, will you let
us be friends
I must, if I am in your power
I wish you would be my guest and comrade
Well, I will; I can't help it
So long as we have not
the training of him
Richard, is it you
Yes.  How do you feel now, Carloman; are you better
No better, thanks, dear Richard
Has the pain come again
No; I have been lying still, musing; Richard, I shall never be better
Oh, do not say so!  You will, indeed you will, when spring comes
I feel as if I should die
I think I shall.  But
do not grieve, Richard.  I do not feel much afraid.  You said it was
happier there than here, and I know it now
Where my blessed father is
But oh,
Carloman, you are so young to die
I do not want to live.  This is a fighting, hard world, full of cruel
people; and it is peace there.  You are strong and brave, and will make
them better; but I am weak and fearful -- I could only sigh and grieve
Oh, Carloman!  Carloman!  I cannot spare you.  I love you like my own
brother.  You must not die -- you must live to see your father and mother
again
Commend me to them
I am going to my Father in heaven.
I am glad I am here, Richard; I never was so happy before.  I should have
been afraid indeed to die, if Father Lucas had not taught me how my sins
are pardoned.  Now, I think the Saints and Angels are waiting for me
Where shall I go, when I come to die, if I have not returned good for
evil
Sir Eric
you told me there was a Parlement to be held
at Falaise, between Count Bernard and the King of Denmark.  I mean to
attend it.  Will you come with me, or shall Osmond go, and you remain in
charge of the Prince
How now, Lord Richard, you were not wont to love a Parlement
I have something to say
When I return, you will see, Lothaire
A choice place for game
that they must come here to
stay, for some autumn sport
Poor
fellow! noble dog! what shall I do to help you
Ha! holla!  Vige!
Vige!  How now, my brave hound
Art hurt
Much torn, I fear
Ha, lad! what art thou
You look like one of those
Frenchified Norman gentilesse, with your smooth locks and gilded
baldrick, yet your words are Norse.  By the hammer of Thor! that is a
dagger in the wolf's throat
It is mine
I found your dog nearly spent, and I made
in to the rescue
You did?  Well done!  I would not have lost Vige for all the plunder of
Italy.  I am beholden to you, my brave young lad
What is your name?  You
cannot be Southern bred
My Lord, my
Lord!-- oh, thank Heaven, I see you safe
Ha
what do I see?  My young Lord! what brought you
here
I came hither to attend your council
I have a boon
to ask of the King of Denmark
Any boon the King of Denmark has in his power will be yours
King Harald himself!  Pardon me, Sir King
Pardon, Jarl Richart!  What would you have me pardon?-- your saving the
life of Vige here?  No French politeness for me.  Tell me your boon, and
it is yours.  Shall I take you a voyage, and harry the fat monks of
Ireland
Oh, ha!  I forgot.  They have made a Christian of you -- more's the pity.
You have the Northern spirit so strong.  I had forgotten it.  Come, walk
by my side, and let me hear what you would ask.  Holla, you Sweyn! carry
Vige up to the Castle, and look to his wounds.  Now for it, young Jarl
My boon is, that you would set free Prince Lothaire
What?-- the young Frank?  Why they kept you captive, burnt your face, and
would have made an end of you but for your clever Bonder
That is long past, and Lothaire is so wretched.  His brother is dead,
and he is sick with grief, and he says he shall die, if he does not go
home
A good thing too for the treacherous race to die out in him!  What
should you care for him? he is your foe
I am a Christian
Well, I promised you whatever you might ask.  All my share of his
ransom, or his person, bond or free, is yours.  You have only to prevail
with your own Jarls and Bonders
Duke Richard, we have not deserved this of you.  I did not treat
you as you have treated my children.  We will be true lord and vassal
from henceforth
Farewell, Richard.  If I lived with you, I
might be good like you.  I will never forget what you have done for me
Richard
the Fearless
What can be the crime of one so aged and feeble
Mercy, mercy! noble, most noble Duke
Rise up -- kneel not to me.  I cannot brook this from one who might be my
father
Who art thou
In this holy place thou art secure, be
thy deed what it may.  Speak!-- who art thou
Dost thou not know me
Promise mercy, ere thou
dost hear my name
I have seen that face under a helmet
Thou art Arnulf
of Flanders
And wherefore art thou here
I delayed to own the French King Hugh.  He has taken my towns and
ravaged my lands.  Each Frenchman and each Norman vows to slay me, in
revenge for your wrongs, Lord Duke.  I have been driven hither and
thither, in fear of my life, till I thought of the renown of Duke
Richard, not merely the most fearless, but the most merciful of Princes.
I sought to come hither, trusting that, when the holy Father Abbot beheld
my bitter repentance, he would intercede for me with you, most noble
Prince, for my safety and forgiveness.  Oh, gallant Duke, forgive and
spare
Rise up, Arnulf
Where the hand of the Lord hath
stricken, it is not for man to exact his own reckoning.  My father's
death has been long forgiven, and what you may have planned against
myself has, by the blessing of Heaven, been brought to nought.  From
Normans at least you are safe; and it shall be my work to ensure your
pardon from my brother the King.  Come into the refectory: you need
refreshment.  The Lord Abbot makes you welcome
The blessing of a merciful God be upon the sinner who turneth
from his evil way; and ten thousand blessings of pardon and peace are
already on the head of him who hath stretched out his hand to forgive and
aid him who was once his most grievous foe
Si a Roem le faz garder
    E norir, gaires longement
    Il ne saura parlier neiant
    Daneis, kar nul n l'i parole.
    Si voil qu'il seit a tele escole
    Qu l'en le sache endoctriner
    Que as Daneis sache parler.
    Ci ne sevent riens fors Romanz
    Mais a Baieux en a tanz
    Qui ne sevent si Daneis non
Tant seit apris qu'il lise un bref
    Kar ceo ne li ert pas trop gref
The Count of Anjou to the King of France.  Apprenez, Monseigneur, qu'un
roi sans lettres est une ane couronne
Sire, soies mon escus, soies mes defendemens
Pre de Battaille
Biaus Segnors, vees chi vo segneur, je ne le vous voel tolir, mais
je estoie venus en ceste ville, prendre consel a vous, comment je poroie
vengier la mort son pere, qui me rapiela d'Engletiere.  Il me fist roi,
il me fist avoir l'amour le roi d'Alemaigne, il leva mon fil de fons, il
me fist toz les biens, et jou en renderai au fill le guerredon se je
puis
Osmons, qui l'enfant enseognoit l'eu mena i jour en riviere, et
quant il revint, la reine Gerberge dist que se il jamais l'enmenait fors
des murs, elle li ferait les jeix crever
Gules, two wings conjoined in lure, or
</text>
