<text>
Ah dear delights, that o'er my soul
     On memory's wing like shadows fly!
     Ah flowers that Joy from Eden stole,
     While Innocence stood laughing by
Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah
Papa and mamma will be home in a week
now, and then we shall stay here a little time, and _then_, and _then_,
I shall go to school
And then, Miss Fanny, I shall go to school
Well, Eric
I doubt, dear, whether you will talk of it with quite as
much joy a year hence
O ay, Fanny, that's just like you to say so; you're always talking and
prophesying; but never mind, I'm going to school, so hurrah! hurrah!
hurrah
but that bright boy
what will become of him? I have heard strange things of schools; oh, if
he should be spoilt and ruined, what misery it would be. Those baby
lips, that pure young heart, a year may work sad change in their words
and thoughts
to bless his dear dear father and mother, and make him a good boy
little
brother Vernon
wholesome neglect
a Sunday plaything
that Mr.
Lawley wanted his man
What man
the young man? or the butler? or is
it the clerk
Why have you been so long
He's coming, sir
the young man
Master Williams said you sent for
me, sir
A mistake
that it was an
easier life by far to break stones by the roadside than to teach them
Crown him! three cheers
Yes
I am mad
Boys, go, I am mad
Life hath its May, and all is joyous then;
     The woods are vocal and the flowers breathe odour,
     The very breeze hath, mirth in't
We shall reach Southampton
tired, pale,
and travel-stained, and had much rather see you first at dear Fairholm,
where we shall be spared the painful constraint of a meeting in public.
So please expect our arrival at about seven in the evening
O mother, mother
My own darling, darling boy
little brother Vernon
O mother
I am so happy -- I like to say my prayers
when you are here
Yes, my boy, and God loves to hear them
Aren't there some who never say prayers, mother
Very many, love, I fear
How unhappy they must be! I shall _always_ love to say my prayers
Ah, Eric, God grant that you may
I say, what sort of
a fellow is Mr. Gordon
Terrible strict, Sir, I hear
That's the door
and you'll have to give him the
doctor's note
Come in
New fellow
awkward little fool
Williams, I suppose
Yes, Sir
Very well, Williams, you are placed in the lowest form -- the fourth. I
hope you will work well. At present they are learning their Cesar. Go
and sit next to that boy
he will show you the lesson, and let you look over his book. Barker,
let Williams look over you
What's the lesson
I say, what's the lesson
What's your name
Eric -- I mean Williams
Then why don't you say what you mean
Drop that; 't isn't yours
Silence
Do lend me your Cesar for a few minutes
Fourth form, come up
Russell, begin
As usual, Barker
Hold out
your hand
Williams, translate the piece in which Barker has just failed
I'll teach you to grin when I'm turned, you young brute
You may go
Is that what you always do to new fellows
Yes, you bumptious young owl, it is, and that too
should you like a little more
What's that
for
For your conceit in laughing at me when I was caned
I did nothing of the kind, and you know it as well as I
do
What! I'm a liar, am I? O we shall take this kind of thing out of you,
you young cub -- take that
You brutal cowardly bully
Hallo, Barker
what's up
Why, I'm teaching this new fry to be less bumptious, that's all
Shame
what a
fellow you are, Barker. Why couldn't you leave him alone for his first
day, at any rate
What's that to you? I'll kick you too, if you say much
Cave, cave
What, Williams! fighting already? Take care
So
a nice
beginning! it seems both boys and masters are against me
What's your name? Are you a boarder or a day scholar? What
form are you in
I'm
afraid you won't like this, or think much of us, Williams
But never mind. It'll only last a day or two, and the fellows are not
so bad as they seem; except that Barker. I'm sorry you've come across
him, but it can't be helped
Do let me speak to you sometimes, while I am a new boy, Russell
O yes
as much as ever you like. And as
Barker hates me pretty much as he seems inclined to hate you, we are in
the same box. Good bye
Sorrowful by the side of the sounding sea
Give to the morn of life its natural blessedness
wild trick of the ancestral savage
And now, why
should this bull-dog sort of fellow have set his whole aim
to annoy, vex, and hurt me
such a jolly little fellow
Barker, next time you do that, I'll tell Mr. Gordon
Sneak! do it if you dare
telling
He stood
there for justice
Owen is a sneak
half murdering him
Barker, if you touch me, I shall go straight to Dr. Rowlands
Did that brute Barker ever bully you as he bullies me
Yes
I slept in his dormitory when I first came, and he
has often made me so wretched that I have flung myself on my knees at
night in pretence of prayer, but really to get a little quiet time to
cry like a child
And when was it he left off at last
Why, you know, Upton in the fifth is my cousin, and very fond of me; he
heard of it, though I didn't say anything about it, and told Barker that
if ever he caught him at it, he would thrash him within an inch of his
life; and that frightened him for one thing. Besides, Duncan, Montagu,
and other friends of mine began to cut him in consequence, so he thought
it best to leave off
How is it, Russell, that fellows stand by and let him do it
You see, Williams
Barker is an enormously strong
fellow, and that makes the younger chaps, whom he fags, look up to him
as a great hero. And there isn't one in our part of the school who can
thrash him. Besides, people never do interfere, you know -- at least not
often. I remember once seeing a street-row in London, at which twenty
people stood by, and let a drunken beast of a husband strike his wife
without ever stirring to defend her
Well
I hope my day of deliverance will come soon, for
I can't stand it much longer, and 'tell' I won't, whatever Owen may do
There, go and fetch that
You blackguard
Who'll have a game at football
You hulking, stupid, cowardly bully
you despicable bully, I won't touch
that cap again, you shall pick it up yourself. Duncan, Russell, here! do
help me against this intolerable brute
Leave him alone
or by heaven I'll get you a sound
thrashing from some fellow
I won't; mind your own business
Barker, I'll never speak to you again from this day
What do I care? puppy, you want taking down too
Barker, I won't stand this any longer
I have just seen you treat
one of your schoolfellows with the grossest violence. It makes me blush
for you, Roslyn Boys
that you can stand by unmoved, and see such things
done. You know that you despise any one who tells a master, yet you
allow this bullying to go on, and that, too, without any provocation.
Now, mark; it makes no difference that the boy hurt is my own son; I
would have punished this scoundrel, whoever it had been, and I shall
punish him now
I give nothing for your word; but if ever you do bully in this
way again, and I see or hear of it, your present punishment shall be a
trifle to what I shall then administer. At present, thank me for not
informing your master
I'm so glad; serves you right
Et nos ergo manum forulae subduximus
to the finger-tips
knew him at home
Please send us
your Homer crib
Williams, what are you doing
Nothing, Sir
Bring me that book under your Homer
Silence
this is no matter for laughing. So,
sir, _this_ is the way you get up to the top of the form
I wasn't using it, sir
Not using it! Why, I saw you put it, open, under your Homer
It isn't mine, sir
Then whose is it
Under the circumstances, Williams, I must punish you
Of course I am _bound_ to believe you, but the circumstances are very
suspicious. You had no business with such a book at all. Hold out
your hand
Hold out your hand
Now, go to your seat
Poor Williams
how very
plucky of you not to cry
Vengeance deep brooding o'er the _cane_,
       Had locked the source of softer woe;
     And burning pride, and high disdain,
       Forbade the gentler tear to flow
Never mind, Eric
only take care that you never get
a punishment _justly_, and I shall always be as proud of you as I am
now. And don't cherish this resentment, my boy; it will only do you
harm. Try to forgive and forget
But, Papa, Mr. Gordon is so hasty. I have indeed been rather a favorite
of his, yet now he shows that he has no confidence in me. It is a great
shame that he shouldn't believe my word. I don't mind the pain; but I
shan't like him any more, and I'm sure, now, I shan't get the
examination prize
You don't mean, Eric, that he will be influenced by partiality in the
matter
No, Papa, not exactly; at least I dare say he won't _intend_ to be. But
it is unlucky to be on bad terms with a master, and I know I shan't
work so well
Hurrah! old fellow
I never
felt so glad in my life
Well! tell me
First, {Owen/Williams} Aequales
you've got head remove you see, in
spite of your forebodings, as I always said you would; and I
congratulate you with all my heart
No
have I really?-- you're not joking? Oh! hurrah!-- I must
rush in and tell them
What a selfish animal I am!
Where are you placed, Russell
Oh! magnificent; I'm third;-- far higher than I expected
I'm so glad
Come in with me and tell them. I'm head
remove, mother
Poor boy! I'm afraid you're disappointed
Oh no, no! it's not _that_
Are you hurt, Russell
Oh! no; don't ask me; I am only foolish to-day
It is but a year since I
became an orphan
Dearest child
look on me as a mother; I love you very
dearly for your own sake as well as Eric's
Russell, let me always call you Edwin,
and call me Eric
Very gladly, Eric. Your coming here has made me so happy
Take us the foxes, the little foxes that spoil our vines; for our
     vines have tender grapes
he should follow a
multitude to do evil
cribbing
I say, Williams
do you know your Rep
No
not very well; I haven't given more than ten minutes
to it
Oh, well, never mind it now; come and have a game at racquets? Russel
and Montagu have taken the court
But I shall skew
Oh no, you needn't, you know. I'll take care to pin it up on the desk
near you
Well, I don't much care. At any rate I'll chance it
Now, Russell, for the conqueror
Get some one else in my place
I don't know my Rep.,
and must cut and learn it
O bother the Rep
somebody's sure to write it out in
school, and old Gordon'll never see
You forget, Montagu, I never condescend to that
O ay, I forgot. Well, after all, you're quite right; I only wish I was
as good
What a capital fellow he is
but I say, Williams,
you're not going too, are you
I think I must, I don't know half my lesson
O no! don't go; there's Llewellyn; he'll take Russell's place, and we
_must_ have the conquering game
I've had lots of time to get up the Horace, and know
it pat
Williams, it's your turn to write out the Horace; I did last time,
you know
My _turn_, what do you mean
Why, you know as well as I do that we all write it out by turns
Do you mean to say that Owen or Russell ever wrote it out
Of course not; you wouldn't expect the saints to be guilty of such a
thing, would you
I'd rather not, Graham
Well, that _is_ cowardly
then I suppose I
must do it myself
Here, I'll do it
shy us the paper
There
I've written it,
and I'll have nothing more to do with it
Why, Sir, you know nothing about it; you can't have looked at it. Go to
the bottom and write it out five times
_Write it out_
this is retribution, I suppose
Bring me that piece of paper
Did you hear? fetch me that half sheet of paper
So, Sir! a second time caught in gross deceit. I should not have
thought it possible. Your face and manners belie you. You have lost my
confidence forever. I _despise_ you
Indeed, Sir
I never meant
Silence -- you are detected, as cheats always will be. I shall report you
to Dr. Rowlands
False-hearted, dishonorable boys
henceforth my treatment of you shall be very different. The whole form,
except Russell and Owen, shall have an extra lesson every half-holiday;
not one of the rest of you will I trust again. I took you for gentlemen.
I was mistaken. Go
You! Williams, I wonder that you have the audacity to speak to me.
Go -- I have nothing to say to you
But, sir, I want to tell you that
Your guilt is only too clear, Williams. You will hear more of this. Go,
I tell you
I _will_ speak, sir; you have been unjust to me for a long
time, but I will _not_ be
Very well, sir! I shall tell Dr. Rowlands that you strike before you
hear me
Well, my boy
what have you to say? You cannot tell
how I rejoice, amid the deep sorrow that this has caused me, to find
that _you_ at least are uncontaminated. But I _knew_, Edwin, that I
could trust you
O sir, I come to speak for Eric -- for Williams
Not a word, Russell; not a word. This is the _second_ time that he has
wilfully deceived me; and this time he has involved others too in his
base deceit
Indeed, sir, you wrong him. I can't think how he came to write the
paper, but I _know_ that he did not and would not use it. Didn't you see
yourself, sir, how he turned his head quite another way when he
broke down
It is very kind of you, Edwin, to defend him
but at present, at any rate, I must not hear you. Leave me; I feel very
sad, and must have time to think over this disgraceful affair
O Eric
how came you to write that paper
Why, Russell, I did feel very much ashamed, and I would have explained
it, and said so; but that Gordon spites me so. It is such a shame; I
don't feel now as if I cared one bit
I am sorry you don't get on with him; but remember you have given him
in this case good cause to suspect. You never crib, Eric, I know, but I
can't help being sorry that you wrote the paper
But then Graham asked me to do it, and called me cowardly because I
refused at first
Ah, Eric
they will ask you to do worse things if you
yield so easily. I wouldn't say anything to Dr. Rowlands about it, if I
were you
Williams, at present I shall take no further notice of
your offence beyond including you in the extra lesson every
half-holiday
Williams, Duncan, and Llewellyn, stand out
I was sorry to notice
your shameful conduct in chapel
yesterday afternoon. As far as I could observe, you were making
yourselves merry in that sacred place with the personal defects of
others. The lessons you receive here must be futile indeed, if they do
not teach you the duty of reverence to God, and courtesy to man. It
gives me special pain, Williams, to have observed that you, too, a boy
high in your remove, were guilty of this most culpable levity. You will
all come to me at twelve o'clock in the library
Good bye, Eric
Dear, good Edwin! how I wish I was like you. If all my friends were
like you, I should never get into these troubles
Nay, Eric
you may be far better than I. You have far
batter gifts, if you will only do yourself justice
Keep the spell of home affection.
       Still alive in every heart;
     May its power, with mild direction,
       Draw our love from self apart,
         Till thy children
     Feel that thou their Father art
I have caught such a lot of pretty sea anemones, Eric
I
wish you would come and look at them
O, I can't come now, Verny; I am going out to play cricket with some
fellows directly
But it won't take you a minute; do come
What a little bore you are. Where are the things
O, never mind, Eric, if you don't want to look at them
First you ask me to look, and then say 'never mind
here, show me them
Oh, ay; very pretty indeed. But I must be off to cricket
You aren't so kind to me, Eric, as you used to be
What nonsense! and all because I don't admire those nasty red-jelly
things, which one may see on the shore by thousands any day. What a
little goose you are, Vernon
Well, Verny
have you been getting those pretty
sea-anemones? come here and show me them. Ah, I declare you've got one
of those famous white plumosa fellows among them. What a lucky little
chap you are
Mind you take care of them
Where did you find them
I have been down the shore getting them
And have you had a pleasant morning
Yes, Russell, thank you. Only it is rather dull being always by myself,
and Eric never comes with me now
Naughty Eric
Never mind, Verny; you and I
will cut him, and go by ourselves
We will both go with
you, Verny, next half holiday
O, thank you, Eric
What do you say to coming
crabfishing, Edwin? this bit of stick will do capitally to thrust
between the rocks in the holes where they lie
If he knew where Eric was
No
last time I saw him was on the shore. We bathed
together, and I remember his clothes were lying by mine when I dressed.
But I hav'n't seen him since. If you like we'll go and look for him. I
daresay he's on the beach somewhere
Good gracious, Edwin
it's
half-past three; what have we been thinking of? How frightened they'll
be at home
Eric, Eric
where have you been? has
anything happened to you, my child
No, mother, nothing. I've only been crabfishing with Russell, and we
forgot the time
Thoughtless boy
your mother has been in an agony
about you
Only two months
and we shall leave you, dear boy, perhaps forever. O do
not forget your love for us in the midst of new companions
O Aunty
do you think I shall ever see them again? I have
been so wicked, and so little grateful for all their love. O, I wish I
had thought at Roslyn how soon I was to lose them
Yes, dearest
I have no doubt we shall all meet
again soon. Your father is only going for five years, you know, and that
will not seem very long. And then they will be writing continually to
us, and we to them. Think, Eric, how gladdened their hearts will be to
hear that you and Vernon are good boys, and getting on well
O, I _will_ be a better boy, I _will_ indeed
I mean to do
great things, and they shall have nothing but good reports of me
God helping you, dear
without his help, Eric, we are all
weak indeed
We were, fair queen,
     Two lads that thought there was no more behind,
     But such a day to-morrow as to-day,
     And to be boy eternal
Hallo, Williams! here you are at last
How have you enjoyed the holidays? It's so jolly to see you again
So you're coming as a boarder
and to our noble house,
too. Mind you stick up for it, old fellow. Come along, and let's watch
whether the boats are bringing any more fellows; we shall be starting in
a few minutes
Ha! there's Russell
Have your father and mother gone, Eric
Yes
They are on their way back to India
I'm so sorry
I don't think anyone has ever been so
kind to me as they were
And they loved you, Edwin, dearly, and told me, almost the last thing,
that they hoped we should always be friends. Stop! they gave me
something for you
Edwin Russell,
from the mother of his friend Eric
How good they are
I shall write and thank Mrs. Williams directly we get to Roslyn
good night
studies
the boarders'
room
preparation
We are not worst at once; the course of evil
     Begins so slowly, and from such slight source,
     An infant's hand might stop the breach with clay;
     But let the stream grow wider, and Philosophy --
     Ay, and Religion too -- may strive in vain
     To stem the headlong current
Shell
baste the bear
high-cockolorum
ghost-hunts
I see a chimney
There's something on your head, Wright
What a shame
Who told you to interfere
I see a chimney
By Jove! I _won't_ stand this any longer
You'll have to sit it then
O, it was _you_ who did it, was it? Then take that
I'll kill you for that
You'll get killed yourself then, you brute
But, I say, young un
this kind of thing won't do, you snow. You'll get into
rows if you shy candlesticks at fellows' heads at that rate
He has been making the room intolerable for the last month by his
filthy tricks
some one must stop him, and I will
somehow, if no one else does
It wasn't I who put the thing on your head, you passionate young fool
Who was it then? How was I to know? You began it
You shut up, Barker
I've heard of your ways before, and
when I catch you at your tricks, I'll teach you a lesson. Come up to my
study, Williams, if you like
Your cousin Upton has 'taken up' Williams
Yes, I am sorry for it
So am I. We shan't see so much of him now
O, that's not my only reason
You mean you don't like the 'taking-up' system
No, Montagu; I used once to have fine theories about it. I used to
fancy that a big fellow would do no end of good to one lower in the
school, and that the two would stand to each other in the relation of
knight to squire. You know what the young knights were taught, Monty -- to
keep their bodies under, and bring them into subjection; to love God,
and speak the truth always. That sounds very grand and noble to me. But
when a big fellow takes up a little one _you_ know pretty well that
_those_ are not the kind of lessons he teaches
No, Russell; you're quite right. It's bad for a fellow in every way.
First of all, it keeps him in an unnatural sort of dependence; then ten
to one it makes him conceited, and prevents his character from really
coming out well. And besides, the young chap generally gets paid out in
kicks and abuse from the jealousy and contempt of the rest; and if his
protector happens to leave, or anything of that kind, woe betide him
No fear for Eric in that line, though
he can hold his
own pretty well against any one. And after all, he is a most jolly
fellow. I don't think even Upton will spoil him; it's chiefly the soft
self-indulgent fellows, who are all straw and no iron, who get spoilt by
being 'taken up
taken up
What a surly devil that is
did you
see how he purposely cut me
A surly ...? Oh Eric, that's the first time I ever heard you swear
Pooh, Edwin, you don't call that swearing, do you? You're so strict, so
religious, you know. I love you for it, but then, there are none like
you. Nobody thinks anything of swearing here
Besides, what can be the harm of it? it means nothing. I was thinking
the other night, and I concluded that you and Owen are the only two
fellows here who don't swear
And, after all, I didn't swear; I only called that fellow a surly
devil
O, hush! Eric, hush
You wouldn't have said so
half-a-year ago
O Edwin, I fear I am getting
utterly bad; I wish I were more like you
Dear Eric, I have no right to say it, full of faults as I am myself;
but you will be so much happier, if you try not to yield to all the bad
things round us. Remember, I know more of school than you
In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night
well enough
We've got a nice set in No. 7, haven't we
Capital. Old Llewellyn's a stunner, and I like Attlay and Graham
Don't you like Bull then
O yes; pretty well
You know you detest him
No, I don't. He never did me any harm that I know of
Him!-- well, _I_ detest him
Well
on coming to think of it, so do I. And yet he is
popular enough in the school. I wonder how that is
He's not _really_ popular. I've often noticed that fellows pretty
generally despise him, yet somehow don't like to say so
Why do you dislike him, Duncan
I don't know. Why do you
I don't know either
his old school
Ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil
one entire and perfect chrysolite
Good night
Come a walk, boy
O excuse me to-day, Upton
I'm going with your cousin
Oh _very_ well
Come a
stroll to Fort Island, Edwin -- will you
O yes
why, we haven't seen each other for
some time lately! I was beginning to fancy that you meant to drop
me, Eric
I hope you will never drop _me_,
Edwin, however bad I get? But I particularly want to speak to
you to-day
I say, you fellows, where are you off to! may I come with you
O yes, Monty, do
It will be quite like old times; now
that my cousin Horace has got hold of Eric, we have to sing 'When shall
we three meet again
Why what's the row with you, old boy
you're as silent as Zimmerman on Solitude, and as
doleful as Harvey on the Tombs. I expect you've been going through a
select course of Blair's Grave, Young's Night Thoughts, and Drelincourt
on Death
My dear child, what is the matter with you
surely you're not offended at my
nonsense
I knew it must come, Eric
and I am so sorry
you didn't speak at the time
Do the fellows ever talk in that way in either of your dormitories
No
Very little
Let me tell you
my father (he is dead now you
know, Eric), when I was sent to school, warned me of this kind of thing.
I had been brought up in utter ignorance of such coarse knowledge as is
forced upon one here, and with my reminiscences of home, I could not
bear even that much of it which was impossible to avoid. But the very
first time such talk was begun in my dormitory I spoke out. What I said
I don't know, but I felt as if I was trampling on a slimy poisonous
adder, and, at any rate, I showed such pain and distress that the
fellows dropped it at the time. Since then I have absolutely refused to
stay in the room if ever such talk is begun. So it never is now, and I
do think the fellows are very glad of it themselves
Well
I don't profess to look on it from the religious
ground, you know, but I thought it blackguardly, and in bad taste, and
said so. The fellow who began it, threatened to kick me for a conceited
little fool, but he didn't; and they hardly ever venture on that
ground now
It is more than blackguardly -- it is deadly
my
father said it was the most fatal curse which could ever become rife in
a public school
Why do masters never give us any help or advice on these matters
In sermons they do. Don't you remember Rowlands' sermon not two weeks
ago on Kibroth-Hattaavah? But I for one think them quite right not to
speak to us privately on such subjects, unless we invite confidence.
Besides, they cannot know that any boys talk in this way. After all, it
is only a very few of the worst who ever do
Shut up there, Williams
and don't spoil the story
Very well. It's your own fault, and I shall shut my ears
a god, knowing good from evil
Dear Horace -- Don't let us quarrel about nothing. Silly fellow, why
should you be angry with me because for once I wanted to go a walk with
Russell, who, by the bye, is twice as good a fellow as you? I shall
expect you to make it up directly after prayers.-- Yours, if you are not
silly, E.W
There's to be an awful lark in the dormitories tonight
the doctor's gone to a dinner-party, and we're going to have no end
of fun
Are you? Well, if it gets amusing, come to my study and tell me, I'll
come and look on
Very well; depend upon it, I'll come
Now for some fun
I'll pay you out for that when I'm ready
but
give us a match, first
But we're making a regular knock-me-down shindy
somebody must keep cave
O, old Rose is safe enough at his Hebrew in the library; no fear of
disturbing him if we were dancing hippopotami
douse the glim
I say
it's jolly cold standing at the top of
the stairs. Won't some one relieve guard
O, I will
it's a shame that one
fellow should have all the bother and none of the fun
Well, what's up
O, we've been having leap-frog, and then Bombastes Furioso. But I'm
keeping 'cave' now; only it's so cold that I thought I'd run up to
your study
Little traitor; we'll shoot you for a deserting sentinel
O no
it's all serene; Rowley's out, and dear old Rose'd
never dream of supposing us elsewhere than in the arms of Morpheus.
Besides the fellows are making less row now
Well! look here! let's go and look on, and I'll tell you a dodge; put
one of the tin washing-basins against the iron door of the lavatory, and
then if any one comes he'll make clang enough to wake dead; and while
he's amusing himself with this, there'll be lots of time to 'extinguish
the superfluous abundance of the nocturnal illuminators.' Eh
Capital
come along
the Dragon
Is this a dagger which I see before me?
     The handle towards me now? come, let me clutch thee
A dagger of the mind, a false creation
Cave
Duncan
Duncan
you sleep soundly,
sir, too soundly; get up directly
Get away, you old donkey
t, aint time to get
up yet. First bell hasn't rung
Come, sir, this shamming will only increase your punishment
What! Williams! get out of bed,
sir, this instant
_Very_ good
you will hear
of this to-morrow
Good gracious
only to think of Rowley appearing! How
could he have twigged
He must have seen our lights in the window as he came home
I say, what a row that tin-basin dodge of yours made! What a rage the
Doctor will be in to-morrow
Won't you just catch it
Just like your mean chaff
But I say, Williams
you _did_ look so funny in the whiskers
What do you think he'll do to us
I don't know
flog us, for one thing, that's
certain. I'm so sorry about that basin, Eric; but it's no good fretting.
We've had our cake, and now we must pay for it, that's all
Who's there
Upton. I've come to have a chat. The Doctor's like a turkey-cock in
sight of a red handkerchief. Never saw him in such a rage
Why, what's he been saying
Oh! he's been rowing us like six o'clock
about 'moral
responsibility,' 'abetting the follies of children,' 'forgetting our
position in the school,' and I don't know what all; and he ended by
asking who'd been in the dormitories. Of course I confessed the soft
impeachment, whereon he snorted 'Ha! I suspected so. Very well, Sir, you
don't know how to use a study; you shall be deprived of it till the end
of term
Did he really, Horace
And it's all my doing that you've
got into the scrape. Do forgive me
Bosh! My dear fellow
it's twice as much my fault as
yours; and, after all, it was only a bit of fun. It's rather a bore
losing the study, certainly; but never mind, we shall see all the more
of each other. Good night; I must be off
Stop! I have a word to say to you
I find that there was the utmost disorder in the dormitories yesterday
evening. All the candles were relighted at forbidden hours, and the
noise made was so great that it was heard through the whole building. I
am grieved that I cannot leave you, even for a few hours, without your
taking such advantage of my absence; and that the upper boys, so far
from using their influence to prevent these infractions of discipline,
seem inclined rather to join in them themselves. On this occasion I have
punished Upton, by depriving him of a privilege which he has abused; and
as I myself detected Duncan and Williams, they will be flogged in the
library at twelve. But I now come to the worst part of the proceeding.
Somebody had been reckless enough to try and prevent surprise by the
dangerous expedient of putting a tin basin against the iron door. The
consequence was, that I was severely hurt, and _might_ have been
seriously injured in entering the lavatory. I must know the name of the
delinquent
Very well
I shall speak to you both privately
Your exercises _used_ to be far better -- I may say incomparably better
what is the cause of this falling off
I fear, my boy, you have not
been improving lately. You have got into many scrapes, and are letting
boys beat you in form who are far your inferiors in ability. That is a
very bad _sign_, Eric; in itself it is a discouraging fact, but I fear
it indicates worse evils. You are wasting the golden hours, my boy, that
can never return. I only hope and trust that no other change for the
worse is going on in your character
Come
let us kneel down together before we part
And either greet him not
     Or else disdainfully, which shall shake him more
     Than if not looked on
the boarders' room
the innumerable laughter
of the sea
the
many-twinkling smile of ocean
Williams, here _again
Why, sir, you seem to
suppose that you may defy rules with impunity! How often have I told you
that no one is allowed to sit here, except the regular occupants
No other master takes any notice of it, sir
I have nothing to do with other masters, Williams, you will bring me
the fourth Georgic, written out by Saturday morning, for your repeated
disobedience. Upton, I have a great mind to punish you also, for
tempting him to come here
I have no power to prevent it, sir, if he wishes it. Besides
it would be inhospitable;
and I am too glad of his company
Williams, leave the room
instantly
Mr. Rose never interferes with me,
when he sees me here
Then I shall request Mr. Rose to do so in future; your conceit and
impertinence are getting intolerable
that he would pay him out somehow yet
GORDON IS A SURLY DEVIL
I think we had better leave that
there, Rose, exactly as it is, till Dr. Rowlands has seen it. Would you
mind asking him to step in here
I say, have you seen the notice-board
No. Why
Why, some fellow has been writing up an opinion of Gordon not very
favorable
And serve him right, too, brute
Well, there'll be no end of a row; you'll see
Would
you kindly summon the lower school into the hall? As it would be painful
to Mr. Gordon to be present, you had better explain to him how
matters stand
Halloa! here's a rumpus
he never has the lower
school down for nothing
I have summoned you all together
on a most serious
occasion. This morning, on coming into the school-room, the masters
found that the notice-board had been abused for the purpose of writing
up an insult to one of our number, which is at once coarse and wicked.
As only a few of you have seen it, it becomes my deeply painful duty to
inform you of its purport; the words are these --'Gordon is a surly
devil
I suppose this dastardly impertinence has been
perpetrated by some boy out of a spirit of revenge. I am perfectly
amazed at the unparalleled audacity and meanness of the attempt, and it
may be very difficult to discover the author of it. But, depend upon it,
discover him _we will_, at whatever cost. Whoever the offender may be,
and he must be listening to me at this moment, let him be assured that
he shall _not_ be unpunished. His guilty secret shall be torn from him.
His punishment can only be mitigated by his instantly yielding
himself up
Very well
the guilty boy is not inclined to
confess. Mark, then; if his name has not been given up to me by to-day
week, every indulgence to the school will be forfeited, the next whole
holiday stopped, and the coming cricket-match prohibited
The handwriting may be some clue
Would you have
any objection to my examining the note-books of the Shell
None at all. The Shell-boys are to show their books to Mr. Ready
immediately
We have discovered a handwriting which remarkably resembles that on the
board. I give the offender one more chance of substituting confession
for detection
Eric Williams, stand out in the room
The writing on the notice is exactly like yours. Do you know anything
of this shameful proceeding
Nothing, sir
Nothing whatever
Nothing whatever, sir
Very well; I _hope_ you have spoken the truth; but whether you have or
no, we shall soon discover. The school, and especially the upper boys,
will remember what I have said. I shall now tear down the insulting
notice, and put it into your hands, Avonley, as head of the school, that
you may make further inquiries
I wonder who did it
The writing was undoubtedly Williams'
And did you notice how red and pale he got when the Doctor spoke to
him, and how he hung his head
Yes; and one knows how he hates Gordon
Ay; by the bye, Gordon set him a Georgic only on Thursday, and he has
been swearing at him ever since
I noticed that he stayed in after all the rest last night
Did he? By Jove, that looks bad
Has any one charged him with it
Yes
but he's as proud about it as
Lucifer, and is furious if you mention it to him. He says we ought to
know him better than to think him capable of such a thing
And quite right, too
If he did it, he's done something
totally unlike what one would have believed possible of him
What
tell a wilful lie to blacken my own innocent
character? Never
This is a bad business, Williams. I cannot forget
how you have been abusing Gordon lately, and though I won't believe you
guilty, yet you ought to explain
What? even _you_, then suspect me
Very well. I shan't condescend to _deny_ it. I won't speak to
you again till you have repented of mistrusting me
No
bad I may be, but I
_could_ not have done such a base and cowardly trick
Dear Eric, I have sought you out on purpose to tell you that _I_ don't
suspect you, and have never done so for a moment. I know you too well,
my boy, and be sure that _I_ will always stick to you, even if the whole
school cut you
Oh, Edwin, I am _so_ wretched. I needn't tell you that I am quite
innocent of this. What have I done to be so suspected? Why, even your
cousin Upton won't believe me
But he does, Eric
he told me so just now, and several
others said the same thing
O, I do so long for home again
Except you, I have no
friend
Don't say so, Eric. This cloud will soon blow over. Depend upon it, as
the Doctor said, we shall discover the offender yet, and the fellows
will soon make you reparation for their false suspicions. And you _have_
one friend, Eric
I have little doubt, Williams, that you have done this act. Believe me,
I feel no anger, only pity for you. Come to me and confess, and I
promise, by every means in my power, to befriend and save you
Dear Eric -- I _cannot, will_ not, believe you guilty, although
appearances look very black. You have many faults, but I feel sure that
I cannot be mistaken in supposing you too noble-minded for a revenge so
petty and so mean. Come to me, dear boy, if I can help you in any way. I
_trust you_, Eric, and will use every endeavor to right you in the
general estimation. You are innocent; pray to God for help under this
cruel trial, and be sure that your character will yet be
cleared.-- Affectionately yours, WALTER ROSE
_P.S._ -- I can easily understand that just now you will like quiet; come
and sit with me in the library as much as you like
Dear Williams -- We have been cool to each other lately; naturally,
perhaps. But yet I think that it will be some consolation to you to be
told, even by a rival, that I, for one, feel certain of your innocence.
If you want company, I shall be delighted now to walk with you.-- Yours
truly, D. OWEN
Ha! Williams
we have been looking everywhere for you,
dear fellow. Cheer up, you shall be cleared yet. I, for one, and Monty
for another, will maintain your innocence before the whole school
I wonder at your speaking to that fellow
You will be yourself ashamed of having ever suspected him before long
ay, the whole lot of you; and you are very unkind
to condemn him before you are certain
I wish you joy of your _friend_, Duncan
Friend
yes! he is my friend, and I'm not
ashamed of him. It would be well for the school if _all_ the fellows
were as honorable as Williams
A plot, a plot, a plot, to ruin all
I
admit
that from the little I know of him he seems to me a
very unlikely sort of boy to do it
I think
that the best way would be for you to
have a regular trial on the subject, and hear the evidence. Do you think
that you can be trusted to carry on the investigation publicly, with
good order and fairness
I think so, sir
Very well. Put up a notice, asking all the school to meet by themselves
in the boarders' room tomorrow afternoon at three, and see what you can
do among you
There must be no sham or nonsense about this affair. Let all the boys
take their seats quietly down the room
Is Williams here
Are you willing to be tried, Williams
on the charge
of having written the insulting paper about Mr. Gordon? Of course we
know very little how these kind of things ought to be conducted, but we
will see that everything done is open and above ground, and try to
manage it properly
There is nothing I should like better
Good
who will prosecute on the part of the school
Very well; if no one is willing to prosecute, the charge drops
I will do it
Have you any objection, Williams, to the jury being composed of the
sixth form? or are there any names among them which you wish to
challenge
No
Well, now, who will defend the accused
No
You were inclined to distrust me, Upton, and
I will only be defended by somebody who never doubted my innocence
I
am only a Shell-boy
but if Eric doesn't mind trusting his
cause to me, I will defend him, since no other fifth-form fellow stirs
Thank you, Russell, _I wanted_ you to offer, I could wish no better
defender
Will Owen, Duncan, and Montagu help me, if they can
Very willingly
All I have got to do
is to bring before the
school the grounds for suspecting Williams, and all the evidence which
makes it probable that he is the offender. Now, first of all, the thing
must have been done between Friday evening and Saturday morning; and
since the school-room door is generally locked soon after school, it was
probably done in the short interval between six and a quarter past. I
shall now examine some witnesses
Was any boy in the room when you did lock the
door
No one
Did you meet any one else in the passage
No
Do boys ever get into the room after the
door is locked
Yes
By what means
Through the side windows
That will do
Do you know that Williams is in the habit of using a particular kind of
ink
Yes; it is of a violet color, and has a peculiar smell
Could you recognise anything written with it
Yes
Is that the kind of ink
Yes
Do you know the handwriting on that paper
Yes; it is Williams' hand
How can you tell
He makes his r's in a curious way
Turn the paper over. Have you ever seen those kind of wafers before
Yes; Williams has a box of them in his desk
Has any other boy, that you are aware of, wafers like those
No
_How_ do you know that Williams has wafers
like those
I have seen him use them
For what purpose
To fasten letters
I can't help remarking that you seem very well acquainted with what he
does. Several of those who know him best, and have seen him oftenest,
never heard of these wafers. May I ask
if any one else in
the school will witness to having seen Williams use these wafers
You have seen a good deal of
Williams
Yes
Have you ever heard him express any opinion of Mr. Gordon
Often
Of what kind
Dislike and contempt
Have you ever heard him say anything which implied a desire to injure
him
The other day Mr. Gordon gave him a Georgic as an imposition, and I
heard Williams say that he would like to pay him out
When did he say this
On Friday afternoon
Have you ever known Williams to do any mean act
Never
Do you consider him a boy _likely_ to have been guilty on this
occasion
Distinctly the reverse. I am convinced of his innocence
I have now done my part. I have shown that the accused had a
grudge against Mr. Gordon at the time of the occurrence, and had
threatened to be revenged on him; that he was the last boy in the room
during the time when the offence must have been committed; that the
handwriting is known to resemble his, and that the ink and wafers
employed were such as he, and he only, was known to possess. In addition
to all this, his behavior, when the matter was first publicly noticed,
was exactly such as coincides with the supposition of his guilt. I think
you will all agree in considering these grounds of suspicion very
strong; and leaving them to carry their full weight with you, I close
the case for the prosecution
Has
Williams any objection to his desk being brought, and any of its
contents put in as evidence
Not the least; there is the key, and you will find it in my place in
school
In spite of the evidence adduced, I think I can show that
Williams is not guilty. It is quite true that he dislikes Mr. Gordon,
and would not object to any open way of showing it; it is quite true
that he used the expressions attributed to him, and that the ink and
wafers are such as may be found in his desk, and that the handwriting is
not unlike his. But is it probable that a boy intending to post up an
insult such as this, would do so in a manner, and at a time so likely to
involve him in immediate detection, and certain punishment? At any rate,
he would surely disguise his usual handwriting. Now, I ask any one to
look at this paper, and tell me whether it is not clear, on the
contrary, that these letters were traced slowly and with care, as would
be the case with an elaborate attempt to imitate
Now the evidence of Pietrie and Carter is of no use, because Carter
himself admitted that boys often enter the room by the window; a fact to
which we shall have to allude again.

"We admit the evidence about the ink and wafers. But it is rather
strange that Barker should know about the wafers, since neither I, nor
any other friend of Williams, often as we have sat by him when writing
letters, have ever observed that he possessed any like them
There is another fact which no one yet knows, but which I must mention.
It will explain Williams' agitation when Dr. Rowlands read out the words
on that paper; and, confident of his innocence, I am indifferent to its
appearing to tell against him. I myself once heard Williams use the very
words written on that paper, and not only heard them, but expostulated
with him strongly for the use of them. I need hardly say how very
unlikely it is, that remembering this, he should thus publicly draw my
suspicions on him, if he meant to insult Mr. Gordon, undiscovered. But,
besides myself, there was another boy who accidentally overheard that
expression. That boy was Barker.

"I have to bring forward a new piece of evidence which at least ought to
go for something. Looking at this half-sheet of note-paper, I see that
the printer's name on the stamp in the corner is 'Graves, York.' Now, I
have just found that there is no paper at all like this in Williams'
desk; all the note-paper it contains is marked 'Blakes, Ayrton.'

"I might bring many witnesses to prove how very unlike Williams' general
character a trick of this kind would be. But I am not going to do this.
We think we know the real offender. We have had one trial, and now
demand another. It is our painful duty to prove Williams' innocence by
proving another's guilt. That other is a known enemy of mine, and of
Montagu's, and of Owen's. We therefore leave the charge of stating the
case against him to Duncan, with whom he has never quarrelled
Williams has allowed his desk to be
brought in and examined. Will Barker do the same
And what have you been doing the whole of the last day or two
but endeavoring to fix the charge on another
We have stronger evidence against you
Russell,
will you call Graham
You were in the sick-room on Friday evening
Yes
Did you see any one get into the school-room through the side window
I may as well tell you all about it. I was sitting doing nothing in the
sick-room, when I suddenly saw Barker clamber in to the school-room by
the window, which he left open. I was looking on simply from curiosity,
and saw him search Williams' desk, from which he took out something, I
could not make out what. He then went to his own place, and wrote for
about ten minutes, after which I observed him go up and stand by the
notice board. When he had done this he got out by the window again,
and ran off
Didn't this strike you as extraordinary
No; I thought nothing more about it, till some one told me in the
sick-room about this row. I then mentioned privately what I had seen,
and it wasn't till I saw Duncan, half an hour ago, that I thought it
worth while to make it generally known
Have you ever seen these before
Yes. On Saturday, when the boys left the schoolroom, I stayed behind to
think a little over what had occurred, feeling convinced that Williams
was _not_ guilty, spite of appearances. I was standing by the empty
fire-place, when these bits of paper caught my eye. I picked them up,
and, after a great deal of trouble, fitted them together. They are
covered apparently with failures in an attempt at forgery, viz., first,
'Gordon is a sur --' and then a stop, as though the writer were
dissatisfied, and several of the words written over again for practice,
and then a number of r's made in the way that Williams makes them
There you may stop
I did it all
What! _you_ did it, and caused all this misery, you ineffable
blackguard
Stop
just see that he doesn't escape, while we decide
on his punishment
Thank you
with all my heart, for proving my innocence; but thank you, even more a
great deal, for first believing it
We have all been unjust
let's make up for it as well as we can. Three cheers for Eric
Williams
good night
Keep
an innocent heart, my boy, and you need never fear trouble. Only think
if you had been guilty, and were now in Barker's place
O, I _couldn't_ be guilty, sir
Not of such a fault, perhaps. But
there are many
kinds of temptation, Eric many kinds. And they are easy to fall into.
You will find it no light battle to resist them
Believe me, sir, I will try
Jehovah-Nissi
Let the Lord be your banner, Eric, and
you will win the victory. God bless you
Ten cables from where green meadows
     And quiet homes could be seen,
         No greater space
         From peril to peace,
     But the savage sea between
What an age you've been buying a few Easter eggs
have you been waiting till the hens laid
No; they are not the _only_ things I've got
Well, but you might have got all the grub at the same shop
Ay; but I've procured a more refined article. Guess what it is
Will you
have a whiff, Monty
A whiff! Oh! I see you've been wasting your tin on cigars -- _alias_,
rolled cabbage-leaves. Oh fumose puer
Well, will you have one
If you like
but I don't much care to smoke
Well, _I_ shall, at any rate
make things look like the
holidays
O, I forgot, Edwin; I know you don't like smoking
It isn't that I don't _like_ smoking only, Eric, but I think it
wrong -- for _us_ I mean
O, my dear fellow! surely there can't be any harm in it. Why everybody
smokes
It may be all very well for men, although I'm not so sure of that. But,
at any rate, it's wrong and ridiculous in boys. You know yourself what
harm it does in every way
O, it's a mere school rule against it. How can it be wrong? Why, I even
know clergymen who smoke
Well, clergymen ain't immaculate
but I
never met a man yet who didn't tell you that he was _sorry_ he'd
acquired the habit
I'm sure you won't thank that rascally cousin of mine for having taught
you
but seriously, isn't it a very moping way of
spending the afternoon, to go and lie down behind some hay-stack, or in
some frowsy tumble-down barn, as you smokers do, instead of playing
racquets or football
O, it's pleasant enough sometimes
As for me, I've nearly left it off
and I think Rose
convinced me that it was a mistake. Not that he knows that I ever did
smoke; I should be precious sorry if he did, for I know how he despises
it in boys. Were you in school the other day when he caught Pietrie and
Brooking
No
Well, when Brooking went up to have his exercise corrected, Rose smelt
that he had been smoking, and charged him with it. Brooking stoutly
denied it, but after he had told the most robust lies, Rose made him
empty his pockets, and there, sure enough, were a pipe and a cigar-case
half full! You _should_ have heard how Rose thundered and lightened at
him for his lying, and then sent him to the Doctor. I never saw him so
terrific before
You don't mean to say you were convinced it was wrong because Brooking
was caught, and told lies -- do you? _Non sequitur_
Stop -- not so fast
he didn't see the harm of it
Don't see the _harm_ of it! Do
you see any good in it
No, sir
Well, isn't it forbidden
Yes, sir
And doesn't it waste your money
Yes, sir
And tempt you to break rules, and tell lies to screen yourself
Yes, sir
And don't your parents disapprove it? And doesn't it throw you among
some of the worst boys, and get you into great troubles? Silly child
don't
talk nonsense; and remember next time you're caught I shall have you
punished
Well, well
I suppose you're right. At any rate,
I give in. Two to one ain't fair; &lsqb;Greek: ards duo o Aerachlaes&rsqb;, since
you're in a quoting humor
We shan't see the line on the waters this evening
there's
too much of a breeze. But look, what a glorious sunset
Yes; it'll be stormy tomorrow
but come along,
let's get to the top; the wind's rising, and the waves will be
rather grand
Ay, we'll sit and watch them; and let's finish our grub; I've got
several eggs left, and I want to get them out of my pocket
Hallo
it's half-past six. We
must cut back as hard as we can. By the bye, I hope the tide hasn't been
coming in all this time
Good God
I'm afraid it has,
though! What asses we have been, with our waves and sunsets. Let's set
off as hard as we can pelt
There's only one way for it
if we're plucky we can jump
that; but we musn't wait till it gets worse. A good jump will take us
_nearly_ to the other side -- far enough, at any rate, to let us flounder
across somehow
There's no good _thinking_
about it
jump we _must_; the sooner the better. We can but
be a little hurt at the worst. Here, I'll set the example
Now then, you too
no time to lose
Will you jump first, Monty
both of you are better
jumpers than I, and to tell the truth I'm rather afraid
Then I won't leave you
we'll both stay here
And perhaps be drowned or starved for our pains No, Monty, _you_ can
clear it, I've no doubt
Couldn't we try to swim it together, Edwin
Madness! look there
Now's your time
What _are_ you waiting for? For
God's sake, jump before another wave comes
Monty, you _must_ jump now
if only to help me when I
try
Now, Edwin
it'll be too late in another minute.
Jump for your life
Oh Edwin, Edwin -- dear Edwin -- _do_ jump
We will rush in for you
Are you hurt, Edwin
O Edwin, for the love of God, try once more
you will
die if you spend the night on that rock
I can't, my leg is hurt
O God, what can we do
We can
never save him; and all but the very top of the Stack is covered at
high tide
Cheer up, Edwin
I _will_ get back to you somehow. If I fail, crawl up to the
top again
Monty
just watch for a minute or two. When I have got
across, run to Ellan as hard as you can tear, and tell them that we are
cut off by the tide on the Stack. They'll bring round the life-boat.
It's our only chance
What are you going to do
Why, Eric, it's
death to attempt swimming that. Heavens
Monty, it's no use
I'm not going to let Russell die on that ledge of rock. I
shall try to reach him, whatever happens to me. Here; I want to keep
these things dry. Be on the look out; if I get across, fling them over
to me if you can, and then do as I told you
Good gracious! Master Montagu
what's the matter;
have you been robbed
O
sir
Williams and Russell are on the Stack,
cut off by the tide
What! on this stormy night? Have you
raised the alarm
I told the life-boat people, sir, and then ran on
I will set off myself at once
But,
my poor boy, how pale and ill you look, and you are wet through too. You
had better change your clothes at once, or go to bed
O no, sir
do take me with you
Very well; but you must change first, or you may suffer in consequence.
Make haste, and directly you are dressed, a cup of tea shall be ready
for you down here, and we will start
Noble boy
I
shall find it hard to believe any evil of him after this
Have you put out the life-boat
Ill luck, sir
the
life-boat went to a wreck at Port Vash two days ago, and she hasn't been
brought round again yet
Indeed! but I do trust you have sent out another boat to try and save
those poor boys
We've been trying, sir, and a boat has just managed to start; but in a
sea like that it's very dangerous, and it's so dark and gusty that I
doubt it's no use, so I expect they'll put back
Don't alarm any other people
it
will merely raise a crowd to no purpose. Here, George
give me the lantern; I will go with this boy to the Stack;
you follow us with ropes, and order a carriage from the King's Head.
Take care to bring anything with you that seems likely to be useful
Thank God, there is yet hope
if
they can but keep warm in their wet clothes, we may perhaps rescue them
before morning
At least
at least I have saved Edwin's life
Where am I
Don't you remember, Edwin? We're quite safe. I'm with
you, and Monty's gone for help
Oh! I daren't jump
oh mother, I shall be drowned.
Save me! save me! I'm so glad they're safe, mother; but my leg hurts
so
How cold it is, and wet too! where's Eric? are we bathing? run along,
we shall be late. But stop, you're smoking. Dear Eric, don't smoke.
Poor fellow, I'm afraid he's getting spoilt, and learning bad ways. Oh
save him
Are they safe
Yes, thank God
so now, boys, shut the windows,
and get to sleep
Calm on the bosom of thy God,
       Fair spirit, rest thee now!
     E'en while with us thy footsteps trod,
       His seal was on thy brow
He
is very dangerously ill
Is he
And yet you should hear him talk in his
delirium
not one evil word, or bad thought, or
wicked thing, ever escapes him. I'm afraid, Eric, it would hardly be so
with you or me
And he talks with such affection of you, Eric. He speaks sometimes of
all of us very gently; but you seem to be always in his thoughts, and
every now and then he prays for you quite unconsciously
When do you think I shall be
allowed too see him
Not just yet, I fear
Only
think, Monty, isn't it hard, isn't it cruel? When we see our brave,
bright Edwin again, he will be a cripple
if he
might see Eric
Yes, my boy
you may see him, and one or two
other of your particular friends if you like, provided you don't excite
yourself too much. I trust you will get better now
Be sure
that you don't startle or
excite him
Oh hush, hush
Dear Eric, dear Monty, why should you cry so for
me? I am very happy
We will come again to-morrow, Edwin
Ah! how good of you, dear fellows
to give up the merry playground for a wretched cripple
There, Edwin
don't they make you glad? They
are one of our _three_ signs, you know, of the approaching holidays. One
sign was the first sight of the summer steamer going across the bay;
another was May eve, when these island-fellows light big gorse fires all
over the mountains, and throw yellow marsh-lilies at their doors to keep
off the fairies. Do you remember, Eddy, gathering some last May eve, and
sitting out in the playground till sunset, watching the fires begin to
twinkle on Cronck-Irey and Barrule for miles away? What a jolly talk we
had that evening about the holidays; but my father and mother were here
then, you know, and we were all going to Fairholm. But the third
sign -- the first primrose and violet -- was always the happiest. You can't
think how I _grabbed_ at the first primrose this year; I found it by a
cave on the Ness. And though these are rather the last than the first,
yet I knew you'd like them, Eddy, so I hunted for them everywhere. And
how much better you're looking too; such shining eyes, and, yes! I
positively declare, quite a ruddy cheek like your old one. You'll soon
be out among us again, that's clear
Dear fellow, you're not worse, are you
What a fool
I am to chatter so; it makes you ill
No, no, Eric, talk on; you can't think how I love to hear you. Oh, how
very beautiful these primroses are! Thank you, thank you, for bringing
them
I wish I hadn't brought them, though
they are filling
your mind with regrets. But, Eddy, you'll be well by the holidays -- a
month hence, you know -- or else I shouldn't have talked so gladly
about them
No, Eric
these dear flowers are the last spring
blossoms that I shall see -- _here_ at least. Yes, I will keep them, for
your sake, Eric, till I die
Oh don't talk so
why everybody
knows and says that you're getting better
No, Eric, I shall die. There stop,
dear fellow, don't cry
isn't it better for me so? I own it seemed sad at first to leave
this bright world and the sea -- yes, even that cruel sea
and to leave Roslyn, and Upton, and Monty, and, above all, to
leave _you_, Eric, whom I love best in all the world. Yes, remember I've
no home, Eric, and no prospects. There was nothing to be sorry for in
this, so long as God gave me health and strength; but health went for
ever into those waves at the Stack, where you saved my life, dear,
gallant Eric; and what could I do now? It doesn't look so happy to
_halt_ through life. Oh Eric, Eric, I am young, but I am dying -- dying,
Eric
my brother; let me call you brother; I have no
near relations, you know, to fill up the love in my yearning heart, but
I _do_ love _you_. Kiss me, Eric, as though I were a child, and you a
child. There, that comforts me; I feel as if I _were_ a child again, and
had a dear brother;-- and I _shall_ be a child again soon, Eric, in the
courts of a Father's house
The grass
withereth
the flower fadeth, and the glory of its beauty
perisheth; but -- _but_ the word of the Lord endureth for ever
Oh Eddy, Eddy, my heart is full
too full to speak to you.
Let me read to you
the pure river of water of
life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the
Lamb
In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was
there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded
her fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing
of the nations.

"And there shall be no more curse
but the throne of God and of
the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him; and they
shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads
And they shall see his face
_and they shall see
his face_
And now pray for me, Eric, will you
O gracious Lord God, look down, merciful Father on us, two erring,
weak, sinful boys; look down and bless us, Lord, for the love thou
bearest unto thy children. One thou art taking; Lord, take me to the
green pastures of thy home, where no curse is; and one remains -- O Lord!
bless him with the dew of thy blessing; lead and guide him, and keep him
for ever in thy fear and love, that he may continue thine for ever, and
hereafter we may meet together among the redeemed, in the immortal glory
of the resurrection. Hear us, O Father, for thy dear Son's sake.
Amen! Amen
Yes
he may die at any time; he _must_ die soon. It is even best that he
should; besides the loss of a limb, that blow on the head would
certainly affect the brain and the intellect if he lived
Good night, Eric
I am tired, _so_ tired. I hope we shall
meet again; I shall give you my desk and all my books, Eric, except a
few for Horace, Owen, Duncan, and Monty. And my watch, that dear watch
your mother, _my_ mother, gave me, I shall leave to Rose as a
remembrance of us both. Good night, brother
Oh, I should _so_ like to stay with you, Monty, Horace, dear, dear
Eric, but God calls me. I am going -- a long way -- to my father and
mother -- and to the light. I shall not be a cripple there -- nor be in
pain
God bless you, dear fellows;
God bless you, dear Eric; I am going -- to God
O far beyond the waters
       The fickle feet may roam,
     But they find no light so pure and bright
       As the one fair star of home;
     The star of tender hearts, lady,
       That glows in an English home
Oh, no! no
Then I said,
it is mine own infirmity, _but I will remember the years of the right
hand of the Most High_
Pampered the coward heart
     With feelings all too delicate for use;
     Nursing in some delicious solitude
     His dainty love and slothful sympathies
The still gad music of humanity
Greek: Ohiei su tous thanontas o Nichaezate
     Tzuphaes hapasaes metalabontas en bips
     Pepheugenai to theion
No
we won't wear these to-day, although we have
both got prizes. Come along I know what we will do with them
_Is it well with the child? It is well_
He would have been the gladdest at our success. Monty
let
us leave the signs of it upon his grave
Ah! there's the
white bridge, and there's the canal, and the stile; and _there_ runs the
river, and there's Velvet Lawn. Hurrah! here we are
How tall you've grown, Verny, and how well you look
But
I have some friends still; especially Mr. Rose among
the masters, and Monty and Upton among the boys. Monty you know; he is
more like Edwin than any other boy, and I like him very much. You didn't
know Upton, but I am a great deal with him, though he is much older than
I am. He is a fine handsome fellow, and one of the most popular in the
school. I hope you will know him some day
My dearest Eric -- I have got bad news to tell you, at least, I feel it
to be bad news for me, and I flatter myself that you will feel it to be
bad news for you. In short, I am going to leave Roslyn, and probably we
shall never meet there again. The reason is, I have had a cadetship
given me, and I am to sail for India in September. I have already
written to the school to tell them to pack up and send me all my books
and clothes.

"I feel leaving very much; it has made me quite miserable. I wanted to
stay at school another year at least; and I will honestly tell you,
Eric, one reason: I'm very much afraid that I've done you, and Graham,
and other fellows, no good; and I wanted, if I possibly could, to undo
the harm I had done. Poor Edwin's death opened my eyes to a good many
things, and now I'd give all I have never to have taught or encouraged
you in wrong things. Unluckily it's too late;-- only, I hope that you
already see, as I do, that the things I mean lead to evil far greater
than we ever used to dream of.

"Good-bye now, old fellow! Do write to me soon, and forgive me, and
believe me ever -- Your most affectionate, HORACE UPTON
P.S.-- Is that jolly little Vernon going back to school with you this
time? I remember seeing him running about the shore with my poor cousin,
when you were a home-boarder, and thinking what a nice little chap he
looked. I hope you'll look after him as a brother should, and keep him
out of mischief
My dear Eric -- I have just received your letter about your brother
Vernon, and I think that it does you honor. I will briefly give you my
own opinion.

"You mean, no doubt, that, from your own experience, you fear that
Vernon will hear at school many things which will shock his modesty, and
much language which is evil and blasphemous; you fear that he will meet
with many bad examples, and learn to look on God and godliness in a way
far different from that to which he has been accustomed at home. You
fear, in short, that he must pass through the same painful temptations
to which you have yourself been subjected; to which, perhaps, you have
even succumbed.

"Well, Eric, this is all true. Yet, knowing this, I say, by all means
let Vernon come to Roslyn. The innocence of mere ignorance is a poor
thing; it _cannot_, under any circumstances, be permanent, nor is it at
all valuable as a foundation of character. The true preparation for
life, the true basis of a manly character, is not to have been ignorant
of evil, but to have known it and avoided it; not to hare been sheltered
from temptation, but to have passed through it and overcome it by God's
help. Many have drawn exaggerated pictures of the lowness of public
school morality; the best answer is to point to the good and splendid
men that have been trained in public schools, and who lose no
opportunity of recurring to them with affection. It is quite possible to
be _in_ the little world of school-life, and yet not _of_ it. The ruin
of human souls can never be achieved by enemies from without, unless
they be aided by traitors from within. Remember our lost friend; the
peculiar lustre of his piety was caused by the circumstances under which
he was placed. He often told me before his last hour, that he rejoiced
to have been at Roslyn; that he had experienced there much real
happiness, and derived in every way lasting good.

"I hope you have been enjoying your holidays, and that you will come
back with the 'spell of home affection' alive in your heart. I shall
rejoice to make Vernon's acquaintance, and will do for him all I can.
Bring him with you to me in the library as soon as you arrive.-- Ever,
dear Eric,

"Affectionately yours,

"WALTER ROSA
Sed revocare gradum
Rosebud
What
so _you_ are the fellows who have had the
cowardice to annoy me thus, night after night, for weeks; you miserable,
degraded young animals
What! and _you_ among them
Oh, this is too bad
_Do_ forgive me, _do_ forgive me, Montagu
I really didn't
know it teased you so much
Wretched
boys! let me see what you have been doing to-night. Oh, as usual
Ha! but what is this? So Brigson has introduced another vile secret
among you. Well, he shall rue it
By heavens, this is _too_ bad
What have I ever done to you young blackguards, that you should
treat me thus? Have I ever been a bully? Have I ever harmed one of you?
And _you_, too, Vernon Williams
Well, I _know_ who has put you up to this; but you shall not escape so.
I shall thrash you every one
Forgive me, Montagu. I am very sorry, and will never
do so again
Brigson, get
out of bed this instant
Hullo
None of that, you blackguard! Will you take a thrashing
No
I should think not
Well, then, take _that_
There
I, a sixth-form fellow, have
condescended to thrash that base coward there, whom all you miserable
lower boys have been making an idol and hero of, and from whom you have
been so readily learning every sort of blackguardly and debasing trick.
But let me tell you and your hero, that if any of you dare to annoy or
lift a finger at me again, you shall do it at your peril. I despise you
all; there is hardly one gentlemanly or honorable fellow left among you
since that fellow Brigson has come here; yes, I despise you, and you
know that you deserve it
You can trust me, sir; may I ask
you kindly to say nothing of this? I have been thrashing some one that
deserved it, and teaching these fellows a lesson
I can trust you
Montagu, and shall take no farther notice of this irregularity.
And now get instantly to your beds
O Eric
why did you not make a stand against all this
before? Your own brother was one of them
Little wretch. I'll kick him well for it
No, no
that'll do no good. Try rather to look after
him a little more
I hope _you_ will forgive him, and try and rescue him
I will do what I can
That punishment's the best to bear
        That follows soonest on the sin,
      And guilt's a game where losers fare
        Better than those who seem to win
Do you know little Wildney
You mean that jolly fearless-looking little fellow, with, the great
black eyes, who came at the beginning of the quarter? No, I don't
know him
Well, he's a very nice little fellow; a regular devil
Humph
I shall bring out a new
Duncan-dictionary, in which. &lsqb;Greek: chezchochezons chos&rsqb; = very nice
little fellow
Pooh
you know well enough what I mean; I mean he's not
one of your white-faced, lily-hearted new boys, but has lots of fun
in him
Well, what of him
Have you any objection to my asking him to sit in the study when he
likes
Not the least in the world
Very well, I'll go and fetch him now. But wouldn't you like to ask your
brother Vernon to come in too whenever he's inclined
No
I don't care. He does come every now and then
Bother these verses
I shall have a whiff. Do you mind,
Eric
No; not at all
Give me a weed, too
What! young un -- you don't mean to say you smoke
Don't I, though? let me show you. Why, a whole lot of us went and
smoked two or three pipes by Riverbend only yesterday
Phew
then I suppose I must smoke too to keep you in
countenance
Tempora mutantur
nos et mutamur in illis
Why, how glum you are
O no
Look
what a
glorious night it is! Nothing but stars, stars, stars
Yes
this smoking makes one very thirsty. I
wish I'd some beer
Well, why shouldn't we get some
it would he very
jolly
Get some! What! at this time of night
Yes; I'll go now, if you like, to Ellan, and be back before ten
Nonsense
it aint worth while
I believe you think I'm afraid
and what's more, I believe _you're_ afraid
Little whippersnapper
as if I was afraid to do
anything _you_ dare do. I'll go with you at once, if you like
What are you thinking of
I don't care twopence about
the beer, and I hope you won't go
But I will, though
But how will you get out
Oh, _I'll_ show you a dodge there
Come along. Have you
a dark lantern
No, but I'll get Llewellyn's
Come along then
Ibant obscuri dubia sub luce
Could you get through that
if we broke away
the rest of the glass
I don't know. But, then, there's the bar outside
Oh, I'll manage that. But will you go and peep through the key-hole of
the library, and see who's there, Duncan
No
no key-holes for me
Hush! then _I_ will
There's only old Stupid
and he's asleep before the fire. Now, then,
just lift me up, Eric, will you
I hope we shan't be seen crossing the play-ground
My
eye, shouldn't we catch it
Here, take my arm
Oh, I see you're not half up to snuff
I'll show you
Hollo, Billy
all serene; give us two
bottles of beer -- on tick, you know
Yessir -- d'reckly
So you're out for a spree
Won't you walk into the back-parlor while I get them
Wouldn't you like a glass of summat
now, young gen'lmen
No, Billy! don't jabber -- we must be off. Here open the door
Stop, I'll pay
What's the damage
Three shilling, sir
Glad to see a new customer, sir
Faugh
what a poisonous place! Good gracious, Charlie, who
introduced you there
Oh, I don't think much of going _there_
we
go every-week almost
We! who
Oh, Brigson and a lot of us. We have a club there which we call the
'Anti-muffs,' and that's our smoking-room
And is that horrid beast the landlord
Yes; he was an old school-servant, and there's no harm in him that I
know of
Look
We must run for it
We won't go by the road; I know a short cut by the fields. What fun
What an audacious little monkey you are; you know all sorts of dodges
Here's a go
I've smashed one
of the beer-bottles in getting through the window, and my trousers are
deluged with the stuff
Come to me before
breakfast tomorrow, Wildney
Eric and I
Has he twigged you
Yes
And me
I don't know; we shall see to-morrow
I hope not
I'm sorry for you, Charlie
Can't be cured, must be endured
Well, good night! and don't lose heart
Well, Eric, it would serve you right
to be caught. What business have you to be going out at night, at the
invitation of contemptible small fry, like this little Wildney
I beg you won't speak of any friend of mine in those terms
I hope you don't call a bad little boy like Wildney, who'd be no
credit to any one, _your_ friend, Eric
Yes I do, though. He's one of the pluckiest, finest, most promising
fellows in the lower school
How I begin to hate that word plucky
it's made the
excuse here for everything that's wrong, base, and unmanly. It seems to
me it's infinitely more 'plucky' just now to do your duty and not be
ashamed of it
You've certainly required _that_ kind of pluck to bear you up lately,
Monty
Pluck
you seem to me to think it consists
in lowering yourself down to the level of that odious Brigson, and
joining hand and glove with the dregs of the school
Dregs of the school! Upon my word, you're cool, to speak of any of my
associates in that way
Associates
pretty associates! How do you
expect anything good to go on, when fellows high in the school like you
have such dealings with the refined honorable Brigson, and the exemplary
intellectual Wildney
You're a couple of confounded muffs
Hav'n't you been a little hard on him, considering the row he's in
Perhaps I have, indeed. But who could help it, Owen, in the present
state of things? Yes, you're right
_this_
wasn't the time to speak. I'll go and talk to him again. But how utterly
changed he is
Forgive me my passion and sarcasm, Williams. You know I am apt to
express myself strongly
Come, Eric, it isn't _wholly_ my fault, is it, that we are not so warm
to each other as we were when
Oh, Monty, Monty
Oh, Eric
I want to speak to
you
I think I suspect who was Wildney's companion
I have no proof, and shall not therefore act on vague suspicion; but
the boy whom I _do_ suspect is one whose course lately has given me the
deepest pain; one who has violated all the early promise he gave; one
who seems to be going farther and farther astray, and sacrificing all
moral principle to the ghost of a fleeting and most despicable
popularity -- to the approval of those whom he cannot himself approve
Whatever you do _yourself_, Williams
Williams
whatever you do _yourself_, Williams, rests with _you_; but
remember it is a ten-thousandfold heavier and more accursed crime to set
stumbling-blocks in the way of others, and abuse your influence to cause
any of Christ's little ones to perish
I wasn't the tempter, however
Well, you seem hardened, and give no sign. Believe me, Williams, I
grieve for you, and that bitterly. My interest in you is no less warm,
though my affection for you cannot be the same. You may go
Another friend alienated, and oh, how true a one! He has not asked me
to see him once this term
Well, after all
I have _some_ friends still
Velut unda supervenit undam
What shall I do
I'd give them that answer, and no other
Why
Because, Eric
I can't help thinking things have gone too far lately
How do you mean
Well, I'm no saint myself, Heaven knows; but I do think that the
fellows are worse now than I have ever known them -- far worse. Your
friend Brigson reigns supreme out of the studies; he has laid down a law
that _no work_ is to be done down stairs ever under any pretence, and
it's only by getting into one of the studies that good little chaps
like Wright can get on at all. Even in the class-rooms there's so much
row and confusion that the mere thought of work is ridiculous
Well, there's no great harm in a little noise, if that's all
But it isn't all. The talk of nearly the whole school is getting most
blackguardly; shamelessly so. Only yesterday Wildney was chatting with
Vernon up here (you were out, or Vernon would not have been here) while
I was reading; they didn't seem to mind me, and I'm sure you'd have been
vexed to the heart if you'd heard how they talked to each other. At last
I couldn't stand it any longer, and bouncing up, I boxed both their ears
smartly, and kicked them down stairs
And I wish it ended in talk,
but
But I believe you're turning Owenite. Why, bless me, we're only
schoolboys; it'll be lots of time to turn saint some other day
You don't
want to make the whole school such a muffish set as the rosebuds,
do you
Do as you like
Well, you'll come to the Anti-muffs, won't you
To that pestilential place again?-- not I
Not after we've all asked you? The fellows
won't half like your refusing
Do come
Confound it all
Yes, I've no friends, I'll
come, Charlie. Anything to please you, boy
That's a brick. Then I shall cut down and tell the fellows. They'll be
no end glad. No friends! why all the school like you
Are you going to the Anti-muffs
Yes; why? are you going too
Yes; do you mind our going together
Not at all
The Jolly Herring
Now then, Billy; make haste with the goose
I vote,
boys, that Eric Williams takes the chair
Hear! hear
Now for the dessert, Billy
I say, I've had no wine
Well, it's all gone. We must get some brandy -- it's cheaper
Here! before you're all done swilling
I've got a
health; 'Confound muffs and masters, and success to the anti's
And their chairman,' suggested Wildney.

"And their chairman, the best fellow in the school
I'm not going to spout
but boys must be boys, and there's
no harm in a bit of fun. I for one have enjoyed it, and am much obliged
to you for asking me; and now I call for a song
Wildney! Wildney's song
Come, landlord, fill the flowing bowl,
       Until it does run overt
     Come, landlord, fill
Now
join in the chorus
For to-night we'll merry merry be!
     For to-night we'll merry merry be!
     For to-night we'll merry merry be!
       To-morrow we'll be sober
cave, cave
This way all serene
Glad ye're not twigged, gen'lmen
but there'll be a pretty
sight of damage for all this glass and plates
Shut up with your glass and plates
Here, Eric, we must
cut for it again
What lucky dogs you are to get off
Yes, it's precious lucky for me
If I'd been caught at
this kind of thing a second time, I should have got something worse than
a swishing
Well, it's all through you I escaped
you knowing little
scamp
I'm glad of it, Eric
since it
is all through me you went. It's rather too hazardous though; we must
manage better another time
preparation
Hush! no more talking
All study boys to leave the room
Williams, go away instantly; what do you mean by staying after I have
dismissed you
I shan't go if he
chooses to speak like that
After that exhibition
you had better leave the room
Yes, I had
there's your cane
Is anything the matter, Williams
Williams
yes, that's always the
way with a fellow when he's in trouble. I always know what's coming when
you begin to leave off calling me by my Christian name
Very well, then
what's the matter,
Eric
Matter
Matter? hang you all, you are all turning against me,
because you are a set of muffs, and
Take care
And I've been breaking Rose's cane over his head, because he had the
impudence to touch, me with it, and
Eric, you're not yourself to-night
So
another saint come to cast a
stone at me! Well! I suppose I must be resigned
only don't let the sermon be long
Come, Eric
I
won't be repulsed in this way. Look at me. What? won't you even look? Oh
Eric, one wouldn't have fancied this in past days, when we were so much
together with one who is dead. It's a long long time since we've eyen
alluded to him, but _I_ shall never forget those happy days
I'm not come to reproach you. You don't give me a friend's right to
reprove. But still, Eric, for your own sake, dear fellow, I can't help
being sorry for all this. I did hope you'd have broken with Brigson
after the thrashing I gave him, for the way in which he treated me. I
don't think you _can_ know the mischief he is doing
Ah
it's all of no use; you're all giving me the cold shoulder, and I'm
going to the bad, that's the long and short of it
Oh, Eric! for your own sake, for your parents' sake, for the school's
sake, for all your real friends' sake, don't talk in that bitter
hopeless way. You are too noble a fellow to be made the tool or the
patron of the boys who lead, while they seem to follow you. I _do_ hope
you'll join us even yet in resisting them
I
can't talk, Monty
but leave me now; and
if you like, we will have a walk to-morrow
Most willingly, Eric
Come in; but I don't want to be bothered to-night
May I come in? not if it
bothers you, Eric
Oh, Verny, I didn't know it was you; I thought it would be Wildney. You
_never_ come now
Whose
fault is that
Come here, Verny
Eric, did you know I was caught to-night at the dinner
You
Good heavens! I didn't
notice you, and should not have dreamt of coming, if I'd known you were
there. Oh, Vernon, forgive me for setting you such, a bad example
Yes, I was there, and I was caught
Poor boy! but never mind; there are such a lot that you can't get much
done to you
It isn't _that_ I care for; I've been flogged before, you know.
But -- may I say something
Yes, Vernon, anything you like
Well, then,-- oh, Eric! I am so, so sorry that you did that to Mr. Rose
to-night. All the fellows are praising you up, of course; but I could
have cried to see it, and I did. I wouldn't have minded if it had been
anybody but Rose
But why
Because, Eric, he's been so good, so kind to both of us. You've often
told me about him, you know, at Fairholm, and he's done such, lots of
kind things to me. And only to-night, when he heard I was caught, he
sent for me to the library, and spoke so firmly, yet so gently, about
the wickedness of going to such low places, and about so young a boy as
I am learning to drink, and the ruin of it and -- and
and then he knelt down and prayed for me,
so as I have never heard any one pray but mother;-- and do you know,
Eric, it was strange, but I thought I _did_ hear our mother's voice
praying for me too, while he prayed, and
and just as he had ceased
doing this for one brother, the other brother, for whom he has often
done the same, treated him with coarseness, violence, and insolence
Oh, I am utterly wretched, Verny. I hate myself And to think that while
I am like this, they are yet loving and praising me at home. And, oh,
Verny, I was so sorry to hear from Duncan, how you were talking the
other day
Poor child
dear little Vernon; and he is to be
flogged, perhaps birched, to-morrow
Raro antecedentem scelestum
     Deseruit pede Poena claudo
except the elder ones, Bull and
Brigson, who will bring me one hundred lines every hour of the
half-holidays till further notice. There are some
I am well
aware, who, though present yesterday, were not detected. I am sorry for
it, for _their_ sakes; they will be more likely to sin again. In cases
like this, punishment is a blessing, and impunity a burden
Williams
I have had a great regard for you, and felt a deep
interest in you from the day I first saw you, and knew your excellent
parents. At one time I had conceived great hopes of your future course,
and your abilities seemed likely to blossom into noble fruit. But you
fell off greatly, and grew idle and careless. At last an event happened,
in which for a time you acted worthily of yourself, and which seemed to
arouse you from your negligence and indifference. All my hopes in you
revived; but as I continued to watch your course (more closely, perhaps,
than you supposed), I observed with pain that those hopes must be again
disappointed. It needs but a glance at your countenance to be sure that
you are not so upright or right-minded a boy as you were two years ago.
I can judge only from your outward course; but I deeply fear, Williams,
I deeply fear, that in _other_ respects also you are going the down-hill
road. And what am I to think now, when on the _same_ morning, you and
your little brother _both_ come before me for such serious and heavy
faults? I cannot free you from blame even for _his_ misdoings, for you
are his natural guardian here; I am only glad that you were not involved
with him in that charge
Let _me_ bear the punishment, sir, instead of him
for I misled him, and was there myself
You, Williams! on the verge
of the sixth form. Alas! I fear, from this, that the state of things
among you is even worse than I had supposed
No; you have confessed the sin voluntarily, and therefore at present I
shall not notice it; only, let me entreat you to beware. But I must turn
to the other matter. What excuse have you for your intolerable conduct
to Mr. Rose, who, as I know, has shown you from the first the most
unusual and disinterested kindness
I cannot defend myself, sir. I was excited, and could not control my
passion
Then you must sit down here, and write an apology, which I shall make
you read aloud before the whole school at twelve to-day
Come to me again at twelve
We are assembled
for an act of justice. One of
your number has insulted a master publicly, and is ashamed of his
conduct, and has himself written the apology which he will read. I had
intended to add a still severer punishment, but Mr. Rose has earnestly
begged me not to do so, and I have succumbed to his wishes. Williams,
read your apology
Owing
to a very
natural and pardonable emotion, the apology has been read in such a way
that you could not have understood it. I will therefore read it myself.
It is to this effect --

"'I, Eric Williams, beg humbly and sincerely to apologise for my
passionate and ungrateful insult to Mr. Rose.'

"You will understand that he was left quite free to choose his own
expressions; and as he has acknowledged his shame and compunction for
the act, I trust that none of you will be tempted to elevate him into a
hero, for a folly which he himself so much regrets. This affair,-- as I
should wish all bad deeds to be after they have once been
punished,-- will now be forgiven, and I hope forgotten
I'm so wretched, Monty
do you think Rose despises
me
I am _sure_ of the contrary. Won't you go to him, Eric, and say all you
feel
Heigh ho! I shall never get right again. Oh, to recover the last two
years
You can redeem them, Eric, by a nobler present. Let the same words
comfort you that have often brought hope to me --'I will restore the
years which the locust hath eaten
Forgive me, sir
Freely, my boy
I wish you could feel how fully
I forgive you; but
you have far more, Eric, to forgive yourself. I will not
talk to you, Eric; it would be little good, I fear; but you little know
how much I pity and tremble for you
You see how he turns on his pets if they offend him
why, even that old beast Gordon isn't as bad
Yes; while poor Eric was reading, Rose reminded me of Milton's
serpent
Hope elevates and joy brightens his crest
He-e-ar! He-e-ar
_vide_ the last fifth form Rep
I expect Eric won't see everything so much _couleur de Rose_ now, as
the French frog hath it
It was too bad to stand by and triumph, certainly
I say, you fellows
all that isn't fair. I'm sure you
all saw how really sorry Rose looked about it; and he said, you know,
that it was merely for the sake of school discipline that he put the
matter in Rowlands' hands
Discipline be hanged
we'll have our revenge on him
yet, discipline or no
I hope you won't, though
I know Eric will be sorry if
you do
The more muff he. We shall do as we like
Well, I shall tell him; and I'm sure he'll ask you not. You know how he
tries to stick up for Rose
If you say a word more
I'll kick you out of the room; you and
that wretched little fool there with you
You may do as you like
but you won't go
on like this long, I can tell you
I have it
that little donkey's given me an idea. We'll
_crust_ Rose to-night
To crust
Capital
we will
Well, who'll take part
What! are we all turning sneaks and cowards? Here,
Wildney, won't you? you were abusing Rose just now
Yes, I will
You'll not
have done till you've got us all expelled, I believe
Fiddle-stick end! and what if we are? besides, he can't expel half the
school
Now then
what a funky set you are!
Here goes
Preparation will be in five
minutes; every boy not then in his place will be punished
Some of you have mistaken me
The silly display of passion in one boy
yesterday has led you to presume that you may trifle with me. You are
wrong. For Williams' sake, as a boy who has, or at least once _had_,
something noble in him, I left that matter in the Doctor's hands. I
shall _not_ do so to-night. Which of you put out the candles
Which of you had the audacity to throw pieces of bread at me
I warn you that I _will_ know, and it will be far worse for the guilty
if I do not know at once
Very well. I know many boys who were _not_ guilty because I saw them
in parts of the room where to throw was impossible. I shall now _ask_
all the rest, one by one, if they took any part in this. And beware of
telling me a lie
Brigson! Brigson
They call your name; stand out
_That_ is the boy
who
has been like an ulcer to this school. These boys shall have a good look
at their hero
They call your name! Do you know anything of this
No
I'll swear I'd nothing to do with it
Oh-h-h-h
You have told me a lie
No words can express my loathing for your false and
dishonorable conduct. Nor shall your lie save you, as you shall find
immediately. Still, you shall escape if you can or dare to deny it
again. I repeat my question -- Were you engaged in this
As I thought
Not _one_ boy only, but many, were engaged. I shall call you up one by
one to answer me. Wildney, come here
Were you one of those who threw
I didn't throw, sir, but I _did_ put out one of the candles that it
might be done
Good! stand back. Pietrie, come up
No! I shall not
even ask you, Wright. I know well that your character is too good to be
involved in such an attempt
No
Go on
Oh, sir! I only wanted to say that I hope you won't think Eric knew of
this. He would have hated it, sir, more even than I do
Good
I am sure of it. And now
I shall teach you never to dare again to be guilty of such
presumption and wickedness as to-night. I shall punish you according to
my notion of your degrees of guilt. Brigson, bring me a cane from
that desk
Hold out your hand
Hah! I see; more mischief; there is a hair in it
Who did this? I must be told at once
I did, sir
Ha! very well
Go and borrow me a cane from
Mr. Harley
Now, sir
I shall flog you
_Miserable_ coward
The devil -- the devil -- the
devil
invoking his patron saint
There! cease to blaspheme, and get up
There, sir. Retribution comes at last,
leaden-footed but iron-handed. A long catalogue of sins is visited on
you to-day, and not only on your shrinking body, but on your conscience
too, if you have one left. Let those red marks betoken that your reign
is ended. Liar and tempter, you have led boys into the sins which you
then meanly deny! And now, you boys, _there_ in that coward, who cannot
even endure his richly-merited punishment, see the boy whom you have
suffered to be your _leader_ for well-nigh six months
Now, sir
that flogging shall be
repeated with interest on your next offence. At present you will take
each boy on your back while I cane him. It is fit that they should see
where _you_ lead them to
And now
since that disgusting but necessary scene is over,
_never_ let me have to repeat it again
Three groans, hoots, and hisses, for a liar and a coward
Oh, we're
not hissing you, sir
we're all hissing at
lying and cowardice
Three times three for Mr. Rose
You cut
me, curse you; but, _never fear, I'll be revenged on you yet_
Do your worst
and never speak to me
again
Our echoes roll from soul to soul,
     And live for ever and for ever
I am so glad to see those two together
I really think
Wright is one of the best little fellows in the school, and he'll be the
saving of Vernon. He's already persuaded him to leave off smoking and
other bad things, and has got him to work a little harder, and turn over
a new leaf altogether
Yes
I've seen a marvellous improvement in little
Williams lately. I think that Duncan gave him a rough lesson the other
night which did him good, and dear old Rose too has been leading him by
the hand; but the best thing is that, through Wright, he sees less of
Eric's _friend_, that young scapegrace Wildney
Yes; that little wretch has a good deal to answer for. What a pity that
Eric spoils him so, or rather suffers himself to be spoilt by him. I'm
glad Vernon's escaped his influence now; he's too fine a boy to be made
as bad as the general run of them. What a brilliant little fellow he is;
just like his brother
Just like what his brother _was_
his face, like his
mind, has suffered lately
Too true
and yet, cool as we now are
in our outward intercourse, he little knows how I love him, and yearn
for the Eric I once knew. Would to God poor Russell had lived, and then
I believe that Williams wouldn't have gone so for wrong
Well, I think there's another chance for him now that -- that -- what name
is bad enough, for that Brigson?-- is gone
I hope so. But
his works do follow him. Look
there
There
see how long those ripples last, and how
numerous they are
Poor Williams! What a gleam of new hope there was
in him after Russell's death
Yes, for a time
heigh ho! I fear we shall never be
warm friends again. We can't be while he goes on as he is doing. And yet
I love him
If you want a practical comment on what we've been talking about,
you'll see it there
How very sad
How very contemptible
Did you observe what they were doing
Smoking
Worse than that a good deal. They were doing something which, if Eric
doesn't take care, will one day be his ruin
What
I saw them drinking. I have little doubt it was brandy
Good heavens
It is getting a common practice with some fellows. One of the ripples,
you see, of Brigson's influence
We've been talking
about a bad matter. Vernon here says
that there's no good working for a prize in his form, because the
cribbing's so atrocious. Indeed, it's very nearly as bad in my form. It
always is under Gordon; he _can't_ understand fellows doing
dishonorable things
It's a great bore in the weekly examinations
every now
and then Gordon will even leave the room for a few minutes, and then out
come dozens of books
Well, Wright
if that happens again next examination,
I'd speak out about it
How
Why, I'd get every fellow who disapproves of it to give me his name,
and get up and read the list, and say that you at least have pledged
yourselves not to do it
Humph! I don't know how that would answer. They'd half kill me for one
thing
Never mind; do your duty. I wish I'd such an opportunity, if only to
show how sorry I am for my own past unfairness
jollification
Billy
anti-muffishness
Hurrah
here's the grub
Good night, and a merry drink
Oh, I'll
have you all under my thumb yet, you fine young fools
This _won't_ do
those fellows are getting drunk; I can tell it to
a certainty from the confused and random way in which some of them
are talking
We'd better go in and speak to them
at any rate,
they've no right to disturb us all night. Will you come
I'll join you
though I'm afraid my presence won't do you
much good
If you fellows don't care
Rose or somebody'll
be coming up and catching you. It's ten now
What's that to you
It's something to me that you nice young men have been making such a
row that none of the rest of us can hear our own voices, and that,
between you, you've made this study in such a mess that I can't
endure it
Pooh
we're all getting such saints, that one can't
have the least bit of spree now-a-days
Spree
fine spree, to make sots of
yourselves with spirits; fine spree, to
Amen
There, Williams
see that spectacle, and be ashamed of
yourself, if you can. That's what you lead boys to! Are you anxious to
become the teacher of drunkenness
How much longer is this interesting lecture to last
for I want to finish my brandy
Let's turn out these impudent lower-school fellows
Here! you go first
By Jove, I won't stand this any longer
What on earth do you mean by daring to come in like this?
Do you hear
Drop me, you fellow, drop me, I say. I won't go for you
Eric, why do you let him bully me
You let him go this minute
I shall do no such thing. You don't know what you're about
Don't I? Well, then, take _that_, to show whether I do or no
Very well
you may all do as you like; only I heartily
hope now you will be caught. Come, Owen
Oh, Williams
you are changed indeed, to treat your best
friend so
Serve him right
what business has he to
interfere with what I choose to do
Ah! that I could thus wash away the memory of last night
You and Williams appear never to speak to each other now
I am sorry for it, Monty; I think you are the only boy who has
any influence over him
I fear you are mistaken, sir, in that. Little Wildney has much more
Wildney
Wildney more
influence than _you_
Yes, sir
Ah, that our poor Edwin had lived
And constancy lives in realms above;
       And life is thorny; and youth is vain;
     And to be wroth with one we love,
       Doth work like madness in the brain.

            *       *       *       *       *

     Each spoke words of high disdain
       And insult to his heart's best brother
I trust to your honor not to abuse my
absence
I want to tell you all that I
think this cheating very wrong and blackguardly. I don't mind losing by
it myself, but if Vernon Williams loses the prize in the lower fourth,
and any one gets it by copying, I've made up my mind to tell Gordon
Let's see if _that'll_ cut short his oration
My word! we've had nothing but lectures lately
Horrid
little Owenite saint
Saint!-- sneak, you mean. I'll teach him
I hope Wright won't tell; but he's the best fellow in the room,
and cribbing _is_ a shame, as he says
sneak
Conceited little sneak
No one in the school shall touch
Wright again
What? no one! just hark to that
I suppose he thinks
himself cock of the school
How very nice! another dictation lesson
No one shall touch you, Wright
They _will_, though
_I_ will, for one, and I
should like to see you prevent me
Eric Williams, I have
taken one unexpected blow from you without a word, and bear the marks of
it yet. It is time to show that it was _not_ through cowardice that I
did not return it. Will you fight
auld lang syne
I have been in the wrong, Montagu, more than once
and we have been friends
Faith! he's showing the white feather
You're a liar
There!
I'll fight you this moment
This is not a very creditable affair, Montagu
It is necessary
he was letting himself be licked
Now Eric, now
Eric
Now Montagu, go it, sixth, form
Oh Eric, Eric, fighting with Montagu
Shut up there, you little donkey
I'm getting so tired of this
Why, you're fighting like a regular muff
you'll have to
acknowledge yourself thrashed in a minute
That I'll _never_ do
You _shan't_ fight
so there's an end of it. If you do, you'll both have to fight
me first
Shame
Shame, is it
There's
only one way to argue with, you fellows. Bull, if you, or any other boy,
repeat that word, I'll thrash him. Here, Monty, come away from this
disgraceful scene
I'm sick enough of it
and am ready to stop if Williams
is,-- provided no one touches Wright
I'm sick of it too
Then you two shall shake hands
It's come to this, then
Montagu doesn't think me
good enough to be shaken hands with
Pish
it may be an awful honor
to shake hands with such an immaculate person as Montagu, but I'm not
proud on the subject
You don't think me worthy of your friendship, and what's the good of
grasping hands if we don't do it with cordial hearts
Come along, Wright
Nay, leave him
Much as you think
me beneath you, I have honor enough to see that no one hurts him
You didn't fight half like yourself
Can't you tell why? I had the wrong side to fight for
Verny, Verny
it was you who lost me that fight
Oh, but, Eric, you were fighting with Montagu
Don't you remember the days, Eric
when we were
home-boarders, and how kind Monty used to be to me even then, and how
mother liked him, and thought him quite your truest friend, except
poor Russell
I do, indeed. I didn't think then that it would come to this
I've always been _so_ sorry
that I joined the fellows
in playing him tricks. I can't think how I came to do it, except that
I've done such lots of bad things here. But he's forgiven and forgotten
that long ago, and is very kind to me now
Do you know, I've thought of a plan for making you two friends again?
I've written to Aunt Trevor to ask him to Fairholm with us next
holidays
Oh, have you? Good Verny! Yes; _there_ we might be friends. Perhaps
there
I might be more like what I was in
better days
But it's a long time to look forward to. Easter hasn't come yet
Et motae ad Lunam trepidabis arundinis umbram
How awfully dull it is, Charlie
Yes; too late for football, too early for cricket
I suppose this is what they call ennui
What is to be done, Sunbeam
You _shan't_ call me that, so there's an end of it
By the bye, Eric, you remind me to-morrow's my birth-day, and I've got
a parcel coming this afternoon full of grub from home. Let's go and see
if it's come
Capital! We will
Hurrah
you were talking of nothing to do; I vote we
have a carouse to-morrow
Very well; only let's have it _before_ prayers, because we were so
nearly caught last time
Ay, and let it be in one of the class-rooms, Eric; not up here, lest
we have another incursion of the 'Rosebuds.' I shall have to cut
preparation, but that don't matter, It's Harley's night, and old Stupid
will never twig
Well, whom shall we ask
Old Llewellyn for one
We havn't seen him for an age,
and he's getting too lazy even for a bit of fun
Good; and Graham
Yes; Graham's a jolly bird; and Bull
I've no objection; and Pietrie
Well; and your brother Vernon
No
At any rate I won't lead _him_ into
mischief any more
Attlay, then; and what do you say to Brooking
No, again
he's a blackguard
I wonder you haven't mentioned Duncan
Duncan! why, my dear child, you might as well ask Owen, or even old
Rose, at once. Bless you, Charlie, he's a great deal too correct to
come now
Well; we've got six already, that's quite enough
Yes; but two fowls isn't enough for six hungry boys
No, it isn't
Are you game for a _regular_
lark, Eric
Yes; anything to make it less dull. I declare I've very nearly been
taking to work again to fill up the time
grinders
Ha, ha
that's rather good! No, Eric, it's too late for
you to turn 'grinder' now. I might as well think of doing it myself, and
I've never been higher than five from lag in my form yet
Haven't you? But what's the regular lark you hinted at
Why, we'll go and seize the Gordonites' _pigeons_, and make another
dish of them
Seize the Gordonites' pigeons! Why, when do you mean
To-night
But wouldn't it be st -- t
Stealing
Pooh! '_convey_ the wise
call it
Why, my dear old boy
the Gordonites'll be the first to laugh at the trick when we
tell them of it next morning, as of course we will do. There, now, don't
look grumpy. I shall cut away and arrange it with. Graham, and tell you
the whole dodge ready prepared to-night at bed-time
Take my advice, and have nothing to do with this, Eric
Keep your advice to yourself, Duncan, till it's asked for
You've done nothing but _advise_ lately, and I'm
rather sick of it
Comme vous voulez
Gang your own gait;
I'll have nothing more to do with trying to stop you, since you _will_
ruin yourself
Charlie
Hush
the other fellows are asleep. Come and sit
by my bedside, and I'll tell you what we're going to do
First of all,
_you're_ to keep awake till twelve to-night
old
Rowley'll have gone round by that time, and it'll be all safe. Then come
and awake me again, and I'll watch till one, Pietrie till two, and
Graham till three. Then Graham'll awake us all, and we'll dress
Very well. But how will you get the key of the lavatory
Oh, I'll manage that
But come again and
awake me at twelve, will you
I don't feel very sleepy. Shall I sit with you for your hour, Charlie
Oh, do! I should like it of all things. But douse the glim there; we
shan't want it, and it might give the alarm
All right
Now, I'm going to get the key
and mean to have a
stomach-ache for the purpose
Bother the fellow
he sleeps like a grampus. Won't one
of you try to wake him
No
taint dignified for fifth-form boys to have
stomach-aches
Well, I must try again
Who's there
Only me, sir
What do you want
Please, sir, I want the key of the lavatory. I'm indisposed
Oh, well, you must go and awake Mr. Rose. I don't happen to have the
key to-night
Phew! Here's a go
It'll never
do to awake old Rose. He'd smell a rat in no time
I have it
I've got an old nail, with which I believe I
can open the lock quite simply. Let's try
Quietly and quick, then
I'm nearly sure I heard somebody stir
we haven't been
half quiet enough. Here! let's crouch down in this corner
Who's there
We must cut for it
it's quite too dark for him to see us,
or even to notice that we are boys
Run for your lives
it's Gordon, and he's
raising the alarm
thieves! thieves
We must separate and run different ways, or we've no chance of escape.
We'd better turn towards the town to put them off the right scent
Don't leave me
you know I can't run very fast
No, Charlie, I won't
I can't run any further, Eric
What shall we do? don't
leave me, for heaven's sake
Not I, Charlie. We must hide the minute we get t'other side of this
hedge
All right now, Charlie. We must make the best of our
way home
Are you sure he's gone
Quite; come along. I only hope Pietrie and Graham ain't caught
Were you twigged
No
precious near it though. Old Gordon and some men
were after us, but at last we doubled rather neatly, and escaped them.
It's all serene, and we shan't be caught
Well, we'd best to bed now
and, to my thinking, we should
be wise to keep a quiet tongue in our heads about this affair
Yes, we had better tell _no one_
Praepediuntur
     Crura vacillanti, tardescit lingua, madet mens,
     Nant oculi
Good heavens
there's the prayer-bell;
I'd no notion it was so late. Here, let's shove these brandy bottles and
things into the cupboards and drawers, and then we must run down
Do try and
walk sensibly to your place, Eric, or we shall all be caught
Wright
just see how Eric walks. What
can be the matter with him? Good gracious, he must be ill
Hush
take no notice; he's been drinking, Verny, and I
fear he'll be caught
Jolly Herring
adsum
Yes, Sir
Williams, you don't look well. You had
better go at once to bed
I shall summon the school
on Monday, and by that
time we will decide on the punishment. Expulsion, I fear, is the only
course open to us
Is not that a _very_ severe line to take
Perhaps; but the offence is of the worst character I must consider the
matter
Poor Williams
I
shall first read out the names of the boys in the first-fifth, and
upper-fourth forms
Eric Williams and Charles Wildney, stand forward
Williams and Wildney
you have been
detected in a sin most disgraceful and most dangerous. On Saturday night
you were both drinking, and you were guilty of such gross excess, that
you were neither of you in a fit state to appear among your
companions -- least of all to appear among them at the hour of prayer. I
shall not waste many words on an occasion like this; only I trust that
those of your schoolfellows who saw you staggering and rolling into the
room on Saturday evening in a manner so unspeakably shameful and
degrading, will learn from that melancholy sight the lesson which the
Spartans taught their children by exhibiting a drunkard before them -- the
lesson of the brutalising and fearful character of this most ruinous
vice. Eric Williams and Charles Wildney, your punishment will be public
expulsion, for which you will prepare this very evening. I am unwilling
that for a single day either of you -- especially the elder of
you -- should linger, so as possibly to contaminate others with the danger
of so pernicious an example
You may return to your seats
O my father! my father
What will he say?
He will disown me, I know; he is so stern always with me when he thinks
I bring disgrace on him
You must pack up to go this evening, young gentlemen
O no! no! no
_cannot_ be sent away like this. It
would break my father's heart. Eric, _do_ come and entreat Dr. Rowlands
to forgive us only this once
Yes
he _shall_ forgive
us -- _you_ at any rate. I will not leave him till he does. Cheer up,
Charlie, cheer up, and come along
O
sir, forgive us this once
Your offence is one of the most dangerous possible. There could be no
more perilous example for the school, than the one you have been
setting, Williams. Leave the room
my mind is made up
O sir, try me but once, _only_ try me. I promise you most faithfully
that I will never again commit the sin. O sir, do, do trust me, and I
will be responsible for Wildney too
It is not your first offence, Williams, even of this very kind. That
most seriously aggravates your fault
O sir! give us one more chance to mend. O, I feel that I _could_ do
such great things, if you will be but merciful, and give me time to
change. O, I entreat you, sir, to forgive us only this once, and I will
never ask again. Let us bear _any_ other punishment but this. O sir
spare us this
one time for the sake of our friends
It was my deliberate conclusion to expel you, Williams. I must not
weakly yield to entreaty. You must go
O, sir, then, if you must do so, expel
me only, and not Charlie, _I_ can bear it, but do not let me ruin him
also. O I implore you, sir, for the love of God do, do forgive him. It
is I who have misled him
Yes
here is an entry which shall save
you this time. I find written here against your name, 'April 3. Risked
his life in the endeavor to save Edwin Russell at the Stack.' That one
good and noble deed shall be the proof that you are capable of better
things. It may be weak perhaps -- I know that it will be called weak -- and
I do not feel certain that I am doing right; but if I err it shall be on
the side of mercy. I shall change expulsion into some other punishment.
You may go
O thank you, thank you, sir
I have come, sir, to speak for poor Eric
I have just forgiven him, my little boy
there he is, and he has been speaking
for himself
O, Eric, I am so, so glad, I don't know what to say for joy. O Eric,
thank God that you are not to be expelled
What are you thinking of, Eric? Why, I declare you are crying still
aren't you glad that the Doctor has forgiven you
Gladder, far gladder than I can say, Verny. O Verny, Verny, I hope your
school-life may be happier than mine has been. I would give up all I
have, Verny, to have kept free from the sins I have learnt. God grant
that I may yet have time and space to do better
Let us pray together, Eric
Oh is it weed, or fish, or floating hair?
     A tress of maiden's hair,
     Of drowned maiden's hair,
     Above the nets at sea
What do you say to a boat excursion to-morrow
I won't go without leave
I should only get caught, and
get into another mess. Besides, I feel myself pledged now to strict
obedience
Ay, you're quite right. We'll get leave easily enough though, provided
we agree to take Jim the boatman with us; so I vote we make up a party
By the bye, I forgot; I'm engaged to Wildney to-morrow
Never mind. Bring him with you, and Graham too, if you like
Most gladly
Do you mind my bringing Montagu
Not at all. Why should I
Couldn't you take us with you
I'm afraid not, Verny
the boat won't hold more than
six, will it, Jim
No, sir, not safely
Never mind, you shall have my place, Verny
Then Wright shall take mine
O dear no
we wouldn't turn you out for the world.
Vernon and I will take an immense walk down the coast instead, and will
meet you here as we come back
Well, good bye, then; off we go
crabs
But we've got no towels
Oh! chance the towels. We can run about till we're dry
I declare I think this is the prettiest or anyhow the grandest bit of
the whole coast
Yes
_I_ always stick up for Avon Glen as the
finest scene we've got about here. But, I say, who's that gesticulating
on the rock there to the right of it? I verily believe it's Wright,
apostrophising the ocean for Vernon's benefit. I only see one of
them though
I bet you he's spouting

     'Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean -- roll!
     Ten thousand fleets, etc
What do you say to putting in to shore there
it's only
two miles to Starhaven, and I dare say we could make shift to take them
in for that distance. If Jim says anything we'll chuck him overboard
I wonder why Vernon isn't with him
I hope -- why,
what _are_ you looking at, Charlie
What's that in the water there
Good God
what can be the matter
O _do_ let me look
No! stop, stop, Eric, you'd better not, I think; pray don't, it may be
all a mistake. You'd better not -- but it looked -- nay, you really
_mustn't,_ Eric
What's the fun of that, Monty? you
let it drop on purpose
O never mind; I'll get Wildney another. I really daren't let you look,
for fear you should _fancy_ the same as I did, for it must be fancy. O
_don't_ let us put in there -- at least not all of us
I bet you that animal's got a nest somewhere near here
Come, let's have a look for it; a cormorant's egg would be a
jolly addition to our collection
I must bag that nest; it's pretty sure to have eggs in it
and I can get at it easy enough
Hallo
this is a failure. I must climb up again to
reconnoitre if there isn't a better dodge for getting at it
You'd better give it up, Verny
I'm sure it's harder
than we fancied, _I_ couldn't manage it, I know
O no, Wright, never say die. Look; if I get down more towards the right
the way's plain enough, and I shall have reached the nest in no time
You must keep more to the right
I know
but, bother take it, I can't manage it, now
I'm so far down. I must climb up _again_
_Do_ give it up, Verny, there's a good fellow. You _can't_ reach it,
and really it's dangerous
O no, not a bit of it. My head's very steady, and I feel as cool as
possible. We mustn't give up; I've only to get at the tree, and then I
shall be able to reach the nest from it quite easily
Well, do take care, that's a dear fellow
Never fear
Hurrah
it's got two eggs in it, Wright
Vernon! Vernon
O Vernon! for heaven's sake speak
Oh Verny, Verny, darling Verny, speak to me
O God, save my brother, save him, save him from
death
I cannot live without him. Oh God! Oh God! Look!
look
he has fallen from the cliff with his head on this
cursed stone
but we must get a doctor. He is not dead! no, no,
no, he _cannot_ be dead. Take him quickly, and let us row home. Oh God!
why did I ever leave him
O Vernon, Vernon, my own dear brother! oh God, then
he is dead
Ae d
I can hardly even yet
realize
that I am alone here, and that I am writing to my
aunt Trevor about the death of my brother, my noble, only brother,
Vernon. Oh how my whole soul yearns towards him. I _must_ be a better
boy, I _will_ be better than I have been, in the hopes of meeting him
again. Indeed, indeed, dear aunt, though I have been so guilty, I am
laying aside, with all my might, idleness and all bad habits, and doing
my very best to redeem the lost years. I do hope that the rest of my
time at Roslyn will be more worthily spent than any of it has been
as yet
What do you want
Beg pardon, sir
Anything in my line,
sir, to-day
No
What business
have you here? Get away instantly
Not had much custom from you lately, sir
What do you mean by having the insolence to begin talking to me? If you
don't make yourself scarce at once, I'll
O well
if it comes to that, I've business enough.
Perhaps you'll just pay me this debt
I've waited long enough
Jolly Herring
Why, you villain, these have all been paid. What! six pounds for the
dinner! Why Brigson collected the subscriptions to pay for it before it
took place
That's now't to me, sir. He never paid me; and as you was the young
gen'lman in the cheer, I comes to you
Go
you shall have the money in a week
And mind it bean't more nor a week. I don't chuse to wait for my money
no more
Ah, Eric, Eric
you see, my boy, that sin and
punishment are twins
O but, sir, I was just striving so hard to amend, and it seems cruel
that I should receive at once so sad a check
There is only one way that I see, Eric. You must write home for the
money, and confess the truth to them honestly, as you have to me
she still had
perfect confidence in the true heart of her dear boy
Never come near me again; next time you come up to the
studies I'll tell Carter to turn you out
Ho, ho, ho
How mighty we young gents are all of a
sudden. Unless you buy of me sometimes, you shall hear of me again;
never fear, young gen'lman
Not much custom from you lately, sir
Anything
in my line to-day
Didn't I tell you never to come near me again, you foul villain? Go
this instant, or I'll call Carter
Ho, ho, ho! Better look at summat I've got first
FIVE POUNDS REWARD.

"WHEREAS some evil-disposed persons stole some pigeons on the evening of
April 6th from the Rev. H. Gordon's premises; the above reward will be
given for any such information as may lead to the apprehension of the
offenders
What do you show me that for
Five
pounds reward
Well
I thinks I knows who took them pigeons
What's that to me
Ho, ho, ho! that's a good un
Unless you gives me five pound, anyhow, I knows where to get 'em. I
know who them evil-disposed persons be! So I'll give ye another week
to decide
O put it down, put it down, Eric
what business have
you with it
Pooh! it is merely curiosity; as if I couldn't trust myself
Put it down
Nonsense! I _will_ just look and see if there's five pounds in the
cricket-box
So that,
altogether, there's six pounds ten; that's thirty shillings more than
...and it won't be wanted till next summer term, because all the bats
and balls are bought now. I daresay Montagu won't even open the box
again. I know he keeps it stowed away in a corner, and hardly ever looks
at it, and I can put back the five pounds the very first day of next
term, and it will save me from expulsion
Eric, you are a thief
Hallo, Eric! grinding as usual
What! are you the only fellow in the studies
I was
nearly sure I heard some one moving about as we came up stairs
I don't think there's any one here but me
and I'm going a
walk now
Eric, you are a thief! Eric, you are a thief
Yes
I am even a thief. Oh, good God, yes, _even_ a _thief_, for
I _had_ actually stolen the money, until I changed my mind. What if they
should discover the key in the box, knowing that I was the only fellow
up stairs? Oh, mercy, mercy, mercy
O Charlie,
save me
Williams, you are a thief
Eric, Eric, you are
a thief
For alas! alas! with me
      The light of life is o'er;
     No more -- no more -- no more
     (Such language holds the solemn sea
      To the sands upon the shore)
     Shall bloom the thunder-blasted tree,
      Or the stricken eagle soar
Well, well; at least _do_ hope the best, Eric
Yes
only think, dear old fellow, what lots of worse
scrapes we've been in before, and how we've always managed to get out of
them somehow
No, my boy; not worse scrapes
Depend upon it this is
the last for me; I shall not have the chance of getting into another at
_Roslyn_, anyhow
Poor Eric! what shall I do if you leave
Besides it's all my fault, hang it, that you got
into this cursed row
The curse is come upon, me, cried
     The Lady of Shallott,'

"those words keep ringing in my ears
Well, Eric, if _you_ are sent away, I know I shall get my father to
take me too, and then we'll join each other somewhere. Come, cheer up,
old boy -- being sent isn't such a very frightful thing after all
and besides, the bagging of the pigeons was only a
lark, when one comes to think of it. It wasn't like stealing, you know;
_that_'d be quite a different thing
Ah
there's _one_ passage of my life which I never
shall be able to reveal to any human soul
Come now, Eric
I've got something to propose. You
shall play cricket to-day; you haven't played for an age, and it's high
time you should. If you don't you'll go mooning about the shore all day,
and that'll never do, for you'll come back glummer than ever
No
no more cricket for me
Nay, but you _must_ play to-day. Come, you shan't say no. You won't say
no to me, will you, dear old fellow
There's no refusing you
O you dear little rogue, Charlie, I wish I
were you
Pooh! pooh! now you shan't get sentimental again. As if you wern't
fifty times better than me every way. I'm sure I don't know how I shall
ever love you enough, Eric
for all your
kindness to me
I'm so glad you're going to play, though
and so will
everybody be; and I'm certain it'll be good for you. The game will
divert your thoughts
well bowled! well bowled _indeed_
Just listen to that, Eric
why, you're out-doing every
body to-day, yourself included, and taking us by storm
Wait till you see me come out for a duck
Not you. You're too much in luck to come out with a duck
You see I've already become the Homer of your triumphs, and
vaticinate in rhyme
Oh, _well_ hit! _well_ hit! A three'r for Eric
Oh, well hit! well hit in -- deed
How unlucky
I
believe this was our best bat
Oh, never mind
we can soon get another; we've got lots
of money in the box
Modest Eric
you don't acknowledge your
honors
The curse has come upon me, cried
     The Lady of Shallott
Hush, Eric, nonsense
you're not going away
Why, there are only
two more to go in
Yes, thank you, I must go
Oh, then, I'll come too
There's nothing more the matter, is
there
God only knows
Well, let's change the subject. You've being playing brilliantly, old
fellow
Have I
I should just think so, only you got out in rather a stupid way
Ah well! it matters very little
Upon my word, honors _are_ being showered on you
First
to get _the_ score of the season at cricket, and bowl out about half the
other side, and then go to tea with the head-master. Upon my word! Why
any of us poor wretches would give our two ears for such distinctions.
Talk of curse indeed! Fiddlestick end
How
splendidly Eric played
Yes, indeed. I'm so glad. By the bye, I must see about getting a new
bat. I don't know exactly how much money we've got, but I know there's
plenty. Let's come and see
Hallo
I'm nearly sure I left it in the corner of this
drawer, under some other things; but it isn't there now. What can have
become of it
Where's the box
let's see if any of my keys will fit
it. Hallo! why _you're_ a nice treasurer, Monty! here's the key _in_
the box
No, is it though
Here, give it me; I
hope nobody's been meddling with it
Phew-w-w-w
By Jove
A bad, bad business! what's to be done, Monty
I'll rush straight down to tea, and ask the fellows about it. Would you
mind requesting Rose not to come in for five minutes? Tell him there's
a row
I've got something unpleasant to say
Hush! hush! hush! what's the row
The whole of the cricket money, some six pounds at least, has vanished
from the box in my study
Does any fellow know anything about this
Where is Williams
He's taking tea with the Doctor
What's to be
done
I think we've all had a lesson once before not to suspect too hastily.
Still, in a matter like this
one _must_ take notice of
apparent cues
I know what you're thinking of, Monty
Well, then, did you hear anything when you and I surprised Eric
suddenly two days ago
I heard some one moving about in your study, as I thought
I heard more -- though at the time it didn't strike me particularly. I
distinctly heard the jingle of money
Well, it's no good counting up suspicious circumstances; we must _ask_
him about it, and act accordingly.'

"Will he come up to the studies again to-night
I think not
I notice he generally goes straight to bed
after he has been out to tea; that's to say, directly after prayers
Is it possible
Oh Eric! can that
face be the face of a thief
Eric
do you know that some one has stolen all the
cricket money
Stolen -- what -- _all_
Oh,
what new retribution is this
To cut matters short, Eric, do you know anything about it
If it is all gone, it is not I who stole it
Do you know anything about it
No
No, no, no! Yet stop; don't let me add a
lie.... Let me think. No, Duncan
I do _not_ know
who stole it
O Duncan, Monty, be merciful, be merciful
Don't _yet_
condemn me. _I_ am guilty, not of _this_, but of something as bad. I
admit I was tempted; but if the money really is all gone, it is _not_ I
who am the thief
You must know, Eric, that the suspicion against you is very strong, and
rests on some definite facts
Yes, I know it must. Yet, oh, do be merciful, and don't yet condemn me.
I have denied it. Am I a liar Monty? Oh Monty, Monty, believe me
in this
Well, then
I will tell you all. But I can only tell it to
you, Monty. Duncan, indeed you mustn't be angry; you are my friend, but
not so much as Monty. I can tell him, and him only
I am the most
wretched fellow living
there must be some fiend that hates
me, and drives me to ruin. But let it all come; I care nothing, nothing,
what happens to me now. Only, dear, dear Monty, forgive me, and love
me still
O Eric, it is not for one like me to talk of forgiveness; you were
sorely tempted. Yet God will forgive you if you ask him. Won't you pray
to him to-night? I love you, Eric, still, with all my heart, and do you
think God can be less kind than man? And _I_, too, will pray for you,
Eric. Good night, and God bless you
Ha
then he, too, knows and suspects. Never mind. I
must give up my treasures -- yes, even poor Verny's picture; perhaps it is
best I should, for I'm only disgracing his noble memory. But they shan't
prevent me from running away
if she knew of any ship
which was going to sail next morning
Why, your'n is, bean't it, Maister Davey
Ees
Will you take me on board
You be a runaway, I'm thinking
Never mind. I'll come as cabin-boy -- anything
Hardly in
the cabun-buoy line I should say
Will you take me
You'll find me strong and willing
enough
Well -- if the skipper don't say no. Come along
There
you may sleep there for to-night
Stormy Petrel
They hadna sailed a league, a league,
      A league, but barely three,
     When the lift grew dark, and the wind grew high,
      And gurly grew the sea
Hilloa
Who be this
young varmint
Oh, I brought him aboord last night
he wanted to be
cabun-buoy
Precious like un _he_ looks. Never mind, we've got him and we'll use
him
I say, you young lubber, you must pay your footing
I've got nothing to pay with. I brought no money with me
Well, then, you shall give us your gran' clothes. Them things isn't fit
for a cabin-boy
Where am I to sleep
I feel very sick
Babby
what's your name
Williams
Well, Bill, you'll have to get over your sickness pretty soon, _I_ can
tell ye. Here
Davey's slung ye a
hammock in the forecastle
I say, you young cub down there
come up and swab this deck
None of that 'ere slobbering and shamming, Bill. Why, d ---- you, what
d'ye think you're here for, eh? You swab the deck, and in five minutes,
or I'll teach you, and be d ---- d
Very well, you young shaver, I shall tell the skipper and he'll soon
get it out of you as your footing, depend on it
I can't
Can't, d ---- you. Can't. We'll soon see whether you can or no! You do
it, or _I_ shall have to mend your leg for you
Cursed young brat! I suppose you think we're going to bother ourselves
with you, and yer impudence, and get victuals for nothing. It's all
sham. Here, Jim, tie him up
Why didn't ye strip him first, d ---- you
He's only got that blue shirt on, and that's soon mended
And now for some rope-pie
for the stubborn young lubber
Oh God,
help me, help me
Stop, master, stop, if you don't want to kill the boy outright
Softy Bob
Undo him then, and be
I doubt he's well-nigh done for him already
Poor fellow, poor fellow!
it's all over now
How is the young varmint
You've killed him, I think
I must leave the ship when we get to port, Roberts
I doubt whether you'll let you
Why
He'll be afeard you might take the law on him
He needn't fear
Then I must run away somehow. Will you help me
Yes, that I will
After all, how is poor
Charlie to know what has happened to me
I will arise and go to my father
Ach! ein Schicksal droht,
     Und es droht nicht lange!
     Auf der holden Wange
     Brennt ein boses Roth
Ticket
Well, I never! what, Master Williams of Fairholm, can that be you
Hush, John, hush! yes, I am Eric Williams. But don't say a word, that's
a good fellow; I'm going on to Ayrton this evening
Well, sir, I _am_, hurt like to see you looking so ragged and poorly.
Let me give you a bed to-night, and send you on by first train
to-morrow
O no, thank you, John. I've got no money, and
Tut, tut, sir; I thought you'd know me better nor that. Proud I'd be
any day to do anything for Mrs. Trevor's nephew, let alone a young
gentleman like you. Well, then, let me drive you, sir, in my little cart
this evening
No, thank you, John, never mind; you are very, very good, but
I want to walk in alone
to-night
Well, God keep and bless you, sir
for you look to need
it
Who'd ha' thought it, Jenny
There's that young
Master Williams, whom we've always thought so noble like, just been
here as ragged as ragged, and with a face the color o' my white
signal flag
Lawks
well, well! poor young gentleman, I'm afeard
he's been doing something bad
Oh
Verny, Verny, noble little Verny, would to God that I were with you now.
But you are resting, Verny, in the green grave by Russell's side, and
I -- oh God, be merciful to me now
Our darling little Vernon dead -- and Eric fallen
and ruined
Look at that poor fellow asleep on the grass
He has had
a rough bed, mother, if he has spent the night there, as I fear
What is Flo' doing
It is -- oh, good heavens! it is Eric
O my Eric, our poor, lost, wandering Eric -- come home; you are forgiven,
more than forgiven, my own darling boy. Yes, I knew that my prayers
would be answered; this is as though we received you from the dead
seated, and clothed, and in his right mind
Oh
dearest aunty
Oh aunty, you will never know
how different this is from the foul, horrible hold of the 'Stormy
Petrel,' and its detestable inmates
Have you ever heard -- oh, how shall I put it?-- have you ever heard,
aunty, how things went on at Roslyn after I ran away
No, love, I have not. After they had sent home your things, I heard no
more; only two most kind and excellent letters -- one from Dr. Rowlands,
and one from your friend, Mr. Rose -- informed me of what had happened
about you
O, have they sent home my things
There are very
few among them that I care about, but there is just one
I guessed it, my Eric, and, but that I feared to agitate you, should
have given it you before
Do not weep, my boy
Dear
little Verny, remember, is in a land where God himself wipes away all
tears from off all eyes
Is there anything else you would like
I will get you anything in a moment
Yes, Fanny, dear, there is the medal I got for saving Russell's life,
and one or two things which he gave me;-- ah, poor Edwin, you never
knew him
I have a plan to please you, Eric
Shall I ask
Montagu and Wildney here? we have plenty of room for them
O, thank you
Thank you, dearest
aunt
Stop -- shall we?-- yes, yes, I
am going to die soon, I know; let me see them before I die
Tell me, Monty
all about what happened after I
left Roslyn
Gladly, Eric; now that your name is cleared, there is
My name cleared
Did you say
that
Yes, Eric. Didn't you know, then, that the thief had been discovered
No
O thank God, thank God! Do
tell me all about it, Monty
Well, Eric, I will tell you all from the beginning. You may guess how
utterly astonished we were in the morning, when we heard that you had
run away. Wildney here was the first to discover it, for he went early
to your bed-room
Dear little Sunbeam
He found the door locked
and called to you, but
there came no answer; this made us suspect the truth, and we were
certain, of it when some one caught sight of the pendent sheet. The
masters soon heard the report, and sent Carter to make inquiries, but
they did not succeed in discovering anything definite about you. Then,
of course, everybody assumed as a certainty that you were guilty, and I
fear that my bare assertion on the other side had little weight
But, about a fortnight after, _more_ money and several other articles
disappeared from the studies, and all suspicion as to the perpetrator
was baffled; only now the boys began to admit that, after all, they had
been premature in condemning you. It was a miserable time; for every one
was full of distrust, and the more nervous boys were always afraid lest
any one should on some slight grounds suspect _them. Still_, things kept
disappearing.

"We found out at length that the time when the robberies were effected
must be between twelve and one, and it was secretly agreed that some one
should be concealed in the studies for a day or two during those hours.
Carter undertook the office, and was ensconced in one of the big
cupboards in a study which had not yet been touched. On the third day he
heard some one stealthily mount the stairs. The fellows were more
careful now, and used to keep their doors shut, but the person was
provided with keys, and opened the study in which Carter was. He moved
about for a little time -- Carter watching him through the key-hole, and
prepared to spring on him before he could make his escape. Not getting
much, the man at last opened the cup-board door, where Carter had just
time to conceal himself behind a great-coat. The great-coat took the
plunderer's fancy; he took it down off the peg, and there stood Carter
before him! Billy -- for it was he -- stood absolutely confounded, as though
a ghost had suddenly appeared; and Carter, after enjoying his
unconcealed terror, collared him, and hauled him off to the police
station. He was tried soon after, and finally confessed that it was he
who had taken the cricket-money too; for which offences he was sentenced
to transportation. So Eric, dear Eric, at last your name was cleared
As I always knew it would be, dear old boy
Stormy Petrel
Midsummer Night's Dream
There -- stop now
and let's sit out and talk until we see
some of 'the fiery a'es and o'es of light' which he talks of
I'd no idea Shakspeare was such immensely jolly reading
I shall take to reading him through when I get home
Do you remember, Eric
how Rose used to chaff us in old
days for our ignorance of literature, and how indignant we used to be
when he asked if we'd ever heard of an obscure person called William
Shakspeare
Yes, very well
What a perfectly delicious evening. It's almost enough to make me wish
to live
There is a calm for those who weep,
       A rest for weary pilgrims found;
     They softly lie, and sweetly sleep,
       Low in the ground.

     "The storm that wrecks the winter sky,
       No more disturbs their deep repose,
     Than summer evening's latest sigh
       That shuts the rose
Than summer evening's latest sigh
       That shuts the rose
Oh hush, hush, Eric
don't let's spoil to-night by forebodings
Hark -- tirra-la-lirra-lirra
there goes the postman's
horn! Shall I run and get the letter-bag as he passes the gate
Yes, do
Here it is at last
Now, then, for the key. Here's a
letter for me, hurrah!-- two for you, Miss Trevor -- _what_ people you
young ladies are for writing to each other! None for you, Monty -- Oh,
yes! I'm wrong, here's one; but none for Eric
I expected none
Shall I read it aloud to you, dear I Do
you think you can stand it? Remember it will be in answer to ours,
telling them of
Oh, yes, yes
do let me hear it
It will help me to bear what mother says, if I see you by
me
O mother, mother, mother -- but I am forgiven now. O mother, God
and man have forgiven me, and we shall be at peace again once more
Here is a little note from your father, Eric, which
dropped out when we opened dear aunt's letter. Shall I read it, too
Perhaps not now, love
Poor Eric is too tired and
excited already
Well, then, let me glance it myself, aunty
Oh, I have killed her, I have killed my mother
O God, forgive me, forgive me
Yes, mother
forgiven now, for Christ's dear sake. O thou merciful God! Yes,
there they are, and we shall meet again. Verny -- oh, happy, happy at
last -- too happy
Yes, dearest Eric, forgiven and happy now
And hath that early hope been blessed with truth?
     Hath he fulfilled the promise of his youth?
     And borne unscathed through danger's stormy field
     Honor's white wreath and virtue's stainless shield
I have just been staying at Trinity
and Owen, as I suppose
you know, is doing brilliantly. He has taken a high first class, and
they have already elected him fellow and assistant tutor
Is he liked
Yes, very much. He always used to strike me at school as one of those
fellows who are much more likely to be happy and successful as men, than
they had ever any chance of being as boys. I hope the _greatest_ things
of him; but have you heard anything of Duncan lately
Yes, he's just been gazetted as lieutenant. I had a letter from him the
other day. He's met two old Roslyn fellows, Wildney and Upton, the
latter of whom is now Captain Upton; he says that there are not two
finer or manlier officers in the whole service, and Wildney, as you may
easily guess, is the favorite of the mess-room. You know, I suppose,
that Graham is making a great start at the bar
Is he? I'm delighted to hear it
Yes. He had a 'mauvais sujet' to defend the other day, in the person of
our old enemy, Brigson, who, having been at last disowned by his
relations, is at present a policeman in London
On the principle, I suppose, of 'Set a thief to catch a thief
Yes; but he exemplifies the truth 'chassez le naturel, il revient au
galop' for he was charged with abetting a street fight between two boys,
which very nearly ended fatally. However, he was penitent, and Graham
got him off with wonderful cleverness
Ah
there was _one_ who would have been the
pride of Roslyn had he lived Poor, poor Eric
Poor boy, he is at peace now
Shall I read you some verses
which he must have composed, poor fellow, on board the
'Stormy Petrel,' though he probably wrote them at Fairholm afterwards
Yes, do
I speak
to a congregation of mourners, for one who
but a few weeks back was sitting among you as one of yourselves. But,
for myself, I do _not_ mourn over his death. Many a time have I mourned
for him in past days, when I marked how widely he went astray,-- but I do
not mourn now; for after his fiery trials he died penitent and happy,
and at last his sorrows are over for ever, and the dreams of ambition
have vanished, and the fires of passion have been quenched, and for all
eternity the young soul is in the presence of its God. Let none of you
think that his life has been wasted. Possibly, had it pleased heaven to
spare him, he might have found great works to do among his fellow-men,
and he would have done them as few else could. But do not let us fancy
that our work must cease of necessity with our lives. Not so; far rather
must we believe that it will continue for ever; seeing that we are all
partakers of God's unspeakable blessing, the common mystery of
immortality. Perhaps it may be the glorious destiny of very many here to
recognise that truth, more fully when we meet and converse with our dear
departed brother in a holier and happier world
Poor Eric!-- But no, I will not call
him poor; after all he is happier now than we. You loved him well
why do you not try and preserve some records of his life
</text>
