<text>
Very well! very pretty! very good
There are many
youths in Tronyem that would be glad of so pretty a partner as M.
Erlingsen has, if she would not look so frightened
Did you say she looks frightened, sir
Yes.  When does she not?  Some ghost from the grave has scared her, I
suppose.  It is her great fault that she has so little faith.  I never
met with such a case; I hardly know how to conduct it.  I must begin
with the people about her -- abolish their superstitions -- and then there
may be a chance for her
Pray, sir, who plays the violin at this moment
A fellow who looks as if he did not like this business.  He is
frowning with his red brows, as if he would frown out the lights
His red brows!  Oh, then it is Hund.  I was thinking it would be hard
upon him, poor fellow, if he had to play to-night.  Yet not so hard as
if he had to dance.  It is weary work dancing with the heels when the
heart is too heavy to move.  You may have heard, sir, for every one
knows it, that Hund wanted to have young Rolf's place; and, some say,
Erica herself.  Is she dancing, sir, if I may ask
Yes, with Rolf.  What sort of a man is Rolf -- with regard to these
superstitions, I mean?  Is he as foolish as Erica -- always frightened
about something
No, indeed.  It is to be wished that Rolf was not so light as he is,
so inconsiderate about these matters.  Rolf has his troubles and his
faults, but they are not of that kind
Enough
I rejoice to
hear that he is superior to the popular delusions.  As to his troubles
and his faults, they may be left for me to discover, all in good time
With all my heart, sir.  They are nobody's business but his own; and,
may be, Erica's
How goes it, Rolf
How goes it?  Make your friends merry
How goes it
Is all going on well, Erica
Certainly.  I suppose so.  Why not
If you see
anything wrong -- anything omitted, be sure and tell me.  Madame
Erlingsen would be very sorry.  Is there anything forgotten, Rolf
I think you have forgotten what to-day is, that is all.  Nobody that
looked at you, love, would fancy it to be your own day.  You look
anything but merry.  O Erica!  I wish you would trust me.  I could take
care of you, and make you quite happy, if you would only believe it.
Nothing in the universe shall touch you to your hurt, while
Oh, hush! hush
See, they are waiting for us.  One more round before
supper
Now, pray do not speak so; do not call him those names
It is quite as easy to speak so as not to offend him.
Pray, Rolf, to please me, do speak respectfully.  And promise me to
play no tricks, but just set the things down, and come straight in, and
do not look behind you.  Promise me, Rolf
Was ever anybody so stupid
It is the echo, after all.  As if there was not always an
echo here opposite the rock.  It is not Nipen at all.  I will just wait
another minute, however
I am glad I stayed
Now I can say I have seen Nipen.
It is much less terrible then I expected.  Grandfather told me that it
sometimes came like an enormous elephant or hippopotamus, and never
smaller than a large bear.  But this is no bigger then -- let me see -- I
think it is most like a fox.  I should like to make it speak to me.
They would think so much of me at home if I had talked with Nipen
Is that Nipen
There is no cake for you to-night, Nipen.  I hope the ale will do.  Is
the ale good, Nipen
It is offended
or is it really what it looks like, a
fox?  If it does not come back, I will go down presently and see
whether it is only a fox
If it were not for that cry, sir, I should think nothing of it.  But
my fear is that some beast has got him
Search first the place where the cake and ale ought to be
Till I see blood, I shall hope the best
You will not see that
You will see no blood.  Nipen does not draw
blood
Never tell me that any one that was not wounded and torn could send
out such a cry as that
Some wild brute seized him, no
doubt, at the very moment that Erica and I were standing at the door
listening
I wonder where he is now
Oh, there is no doubt about that; any one can tell you that
He is chained upon a wind,
poor fellow, like all Nipen's victims.  He will have to be shut up in a
cave all the hot summer through, when it is pleasantest to be abroad;
and when the frost and snow come again, he will be driven out, with a
lash of Nipen's whip, and he must go flying wherever the wind flies,
without resting, or stopping to warm himself at any fire in the
country
Come down, sir
Come
down this moment.  We shall make you remember this night, as well
perhaps as Nipen could do.  Come down, and bring my can, and the ale
and the cake.  The more pranks you play the more you will repent it
Where is my ale can
Here, sir
And the cake -- I bade you bring it down with you
So I did, sir
It is all here, sir
And the ale in the same place
Bring this gentleman home
and do
not let him out of your hands.  Let no one ask him any questions till
he is in the house
Is the boy there
How much have you seen of Nipen, hey
Nobody ever had a better sight of it, sir.  It was as plain as I see
you now, and no farther off
Nonsense -- it is a lie
Do not believe a word he
says
Neighbour
is there any one here who
does not believe that God is over all, and that He protects the
innocent
Is there any one who does not feel
that the
innocent should be gay, safe as they are in the goodwill of God and
man?  Come, neighbours -- to your dancing again!  You have lost too much
time already.  Now, Oddo, play your best -- and you, Hund
I hope
that, if any mischief is to come, it will fall
upon me.  We'll see how I shall bear it
I thought you would come
I knew you would come, and
take my blessing on your betrothment.  I must not say that I hope to
see you crowned; for we all know -- and nobody so well as I -- that it is I
that stand between you and your crown.  I often think of it, my
dear
Then I wish you would not, Ulla -- you know that
I do know it, my dear; and I would not be for hastening God's
appointments.  Let all be in His own time
There was news this morning
of a lodgment of logs at
the top of the foss;&lsqb;1&rsqb; and they were all going, except Peder, to slide
them down the gully to the fiord.  The gully is frozen so slippery,
that the work will not take long.  They will make a raft of the logs in
the fiord; and either Rolf or Hund will carry them out to the islands
when the tide ebbs
Will it be Rolf, do you think, or Hund, dear
I wish it may be Hund.  If it be Rolf, I shall go with him.  O Ulla!
I cannot lose sight of him, after what happened last night.  Did you
hear?  I do wish Oddo would grow wiser
How did Hund conduct himself yesterday?  Did you
mark his countenance, dear
Indeed there was no helping it, any more than one can help watching a
storm-cloud as it comes up
So it was dark and wrathful, was it, that ugly face of his
Such news
You never heard such news
Good or bad
Oh, bad -- very bad
there is a pirate vessel among
the islands.  She was seen off Soroe some time ago, but she is much
nearer to us now.  There was a farmhouse seen burning on Alten fiord
last week, and as the family are all gone and nothing but ruins left,
there is little doubt the pirates lit the torch that did it.  And the
cod has been carried off from the beach in the few places where any has
been caught yet
They have not found out our fiord yet
Oh dear!  I hope not.  But they may, any day.  And father says the
coast must be raised, from Hammerfest to Tronyem, and a watch set till
this wicked vessel can be taken or driven away.  He was going to send a
running message both ways, but there is something else to be done
first
Another misfortune
No; they say it is a piece of very good fortune -- at least for those
who like bears' feet for dinner.  Somebody or other has lighted upon
the great bear that got away in the summer, and poked her out of her
den on the fjelde.  She is certainly abroad with her two last year's
cubs, and their traces have been found just above, near the foss.  Oddo
has come running home to tell us, and father says he must get up a hunt
before more snow falls and we lose the tracks, or the family may
establish themselves among us and make away with our first calves
Does he expect to kill them all
I tell you we are all to grow stout on bears' feet.  For my part I
like bears' feet best on the other side of Tronyem
You will change your mind, Miss Frolich, when you see them on the
table
That is just what father said.  And he asked how I thought Erica and
Stiorna would like to have a den in their neighbourhood when they got
up to the mountain for the summer
Dear Erica
I want you to do a very kind thing for me.  Do
get leave for me to go with Rolf after the bears.  If I get one stroke
at them -- if I can but wound one of them, I shall have a paw for my
share, and I will lay it out for Nipen.  You will, will not you
It must be as Erlingsen chooses, Oddo, but I fancy you will not be
allowed to go just now
Danger in the fiord
oh, you mean the pirates.  They
are far enough from our fiord, I suppose.  If ever they do come, I wish
they would catch Hund and carry him off, I am sure we could spare them
nothing they would be so welcome to
Did not you see M. Kollsen in the boat with Hund
No, Hund was quite alone, pulling with all his might down the fiord.
The tide was with him, so that he shot along like a fish
How do you know it was Hund that you saw
Don't I know our boat?  And don't I know his pull?  It is no more like
Rolf's then Rolf's is like master's
Perhaps he was making for the best fishing-ground as fast as he could
We shall see that by the fish he brings home
True.  By supper-time we shall know
Hund will not be home by supper-time
Why not?  Come, say out what you mean
Well, I will tell you what I saw, I watched him rowing as fast as his
arm and the tide would carry him.  It was so plain that there was a
plan in his head, that I followed on from point to point, catching a
sight now and then, till I had gone a good stretch beyond Salten
heights.  I was just going to turn back when I took one more look, and
he was then pulling in for the land
On the north shore or south
The north -- just at the narrow part of the fiord, where one can see
into the holes of the rocks opposite
The fiord takes a wide sweep below there
Yes; and that was why he landed
He was then but a
little way from the fishing-ground, if he had wanted fish.  But he
drove up the boat into a little cove, a narrow dark creek, where it
will lie safe enough, I have no doubt, till he comes back -- if he means
to come back
Why, where should he go?  What should he do but come back
He is now gone over the ridge to the north.  I saw him moor the boat,
and begin to climb; and I watched his dark figure on the white snow,
higher and higher, till it was a speck, and I could not make it out
What do you think of this story, Peder
I think Hund has taken the short cut over the promontory, on business
of his own at the islands.  He is not on any business of yours, depend
upon it, madame
And what business can he have among the islands
I could say that with more certainty if I knew exactly where the
pirate vessel is
That is your idea, Erica
I saw what your
thoughts were an hour ago, before we knew all this
I was thinking then, madame, that if Hund was gone to join the
pirates, Nipen would be very ready to give them a wind just now.  A
baffling wind would be our only defence; and we cannot expect that much
from Nipen to-day
I will do anything in the world
Send me
anywhere.  Do think of something that I can do
What must be done, Peder
There is quite enough to fear, Erica, without a word of Nipen.
Pirates on the coast, and one farmhouse seen burning already
I will tell you what you must let me do, madame
Indeed
you must not oppose me.  My mind is quite set upon going for the
boat -- immediately -- this very minute.  That will give us time, it will
give us safety for this night.  Hund might bring seven or eight men
upon us over the promontory; but if they find no boat, I think they can
hardly work up the windings of the fiord in their own vessel to-night;
unless, indeed
they have a most favourable
wind
All this is true enough
but how will you go?
Will you swim
The raft, madame
And there is the old skiff on Thor islet
It is a
rickety little thing, hardly big enough for two; but it will carry down
Erica and me, if we go before the tide turns
But how will you get to Thor islet
I
wish the scheme were not such a wild one
A wild one must serve at such a time, madame
Rolf
had lashed several logs before he went.  I am sure we can get over to
the islet.  See, madame, the fiord is as smooth as a pond
Let her go
She will never repent
Then come back, I charge you, if you find the least danger
No one is safer at the oar than you; but if there is a
ripple in the water, or a gust on the heights, or a cloud in the sky,
come back.  Such is my command, Erica
Wife
give her your pelisse.  That will save her seeing
the girls before she goes.  And she shall have my cap, and then there
is not an eye along that fiord that can tell whether she is man or
woman
Let him go.  It is the least he can do to make up for last night.
Equip, Oddo
Surely it must be dusk by this time
We must clear off more of the ice
But how late it is
growing
No more knocking, I say
There is a quieter way of
trimming the boat
Are you sure you know the cove
Quite sure.  I wish I was as sure that Hund would not find it again
before me.  Pull away
How much farther is it
Farther than I like to think of.  I doubt your arm holding out; I wish
Rolf was here
Some people night-fishing
What sport they will
have!  I wish I was with them.  How fast we go!  How you can row when
you choose!  I can see the man that is holding the torch.  Cannot you
see his black figure?  And the spearman -- see how he stands at the
bow -- now going to cast his spear!  I wish I was there
We must get farther away -- into the shadow somewhere, or wait
I had rather not wait, it is growing so late.  We
might creep along under that promontory, in the shadow, if you would be
quiet.  I wonder whether you can be silent in the sight of
night-fishing
To be sure
Now, now
Now we can get away
Not without the boat
You would not leave them the boat
No -- not if -- but they will be back in a moment.  They are only gone to
hasten their companions
I know it
Now two strokes forward
In with you
In with you!  We have lost time
enough already
Where is she?  I can't see the boat
You can't miss her
unless the brandy has got into
your eyes
So I should have said; but I do miss her
Now for it, before the other two come out above us there
Thank God that we came
We shall never forget what
we owe you, Oddo.  You shall see, by the care we take of your
grandfather and Ulla, that we do not forget what you have done this
night.  If Nipen will only forgive, for the sake of this
We were just in the nick of time
It was better than
if we had been earlier
I do not know
Here are their brandy-bottles, and many
things besides.  I had rather not have had to bring these away
But if we had been earlier they would not have had their fright.  That
is the best part of it.  Depend upon it, some that have not said their
prayers for long will say them to-night
That will be good.  But I do not like carrying home these things that
are not ours.  If they are seen at Erlingsen's they may bring the
pirates down upon us.  I would leave them on the islet but that the
skiff has to be left there too, and that would explain our trick
You will not be so afraid of Nipen any more
You see how well everything has turned out
Oh, hush!  It is too soon yet to speak so.  It is never right to speak
so.  Pray do not speak any more, Oddo
Well, not about that.  But what was it exactly that you thought Hund
would do with this boat and those people?  Did you think
that they would come up to Erlingsen's
to rob the place
Not for the object of robbing the place, because there is very little
that is worth their taking; far less than at the fishing-grounds.  Not
but they might have robbed us, if they took a fancy to anything we
have.  No; I thought, and I still think, that they would have carried
off Rolf, led on by Hund
Oh, ho! carried off Rolf!  So here is the secret of your wonderful
courage to-night, you who durst not look round at your own shadow last
night!  This is the secret of your not being tired, you who are out of
breath with rowing a mile sometimes
That is in summer
However, you have my secret, as
you say, a thing which is no secret at home.  We all think that Hund
bears such a grudge against Rolf, for having got the houseman's
place
And for nothing else
That
he would be glad to -- to
To get rid of Rolf, and be a houseman, and get betrothed instead of
him.  Well; Hund is baulked for this time.  Rolf must look to himself
after to-day
See the fog
O Nippen!  Nipen
Here it is, Oddo, the
west wind
The wind must have just changed
The wind must have gone right round in a
minute
To be sure, since you said what you did of Nipen
You saw and heard Hund himself
Hund himself, madame
What shall we do if he comes back before my husband is home from the
bear-hunt
If he comes, it will be in fear and penitence, thinking that all the
powers are against him.  But oh, madame, let him never know how it
really was
Leave that to me, and go to sleep now, Erica.  You ought to rest well;
for there is no saying what you and Oddo have saved us from.  I could
not have asked such a service.  My husband and I must see how we can
reward it
Now
you know what she who lies there would like us to be
settling.  She herself said her burial-day would soon be over, and then
would come our wedding-day
When everything is ready
we will fix; but not now.
There is much to be done -- there are many uncertainties
What uncertainties?  It is often an uncertainty to me, Erica, after
all that has happened, whether you mean to marry me at all.  There are
so many doubts, and so many considerations, and so many fears
That is the very reason
why we should marry as soon as
we can.  Why not fix the day, and engage the pastor while he is here
Because it would hurt Peder's feelings.  There will be no difficulty
in sending for the pastor when everything is ready.  But now, Rolf,
that all may go well, do promise not to run into needless danger
According to you
one can never get out of
danger.  Where is the use of taking care, if all the powers of earth
and air are against us
I am not speaking of Nipen now --(not because I do not think of it)-- I
am speaking of Hund.  Do promise me not to go more than four miles down
the fiord.  After that, there is a long stretch of precipices, without
a single dwelling.  There is not a boat that could put off, there is
not an eye or an ear that could bear witness what had become of you if
you and Hund should meet there
I will promise you not to go farther down, while alone, than Vogel
islet, unless it is quite certain that Hund and the pirates are far
enough off in another direction.  I partly think as you do, and as
Erlingsen does, that they meant to come for me the night you carried
off their boat; so I will be on the watch, and go no farther than where
they cannot hurt me
Then why say Vogel islet?  It is out of all reasonable distance
Not to those who know the fiord as I do.  I have my reasons, Erica,
for fixing that distance and no other; and that far I intend to go,
whether my friends think me able to take care of myself or not
At least
let me go with you
Not for the world, my love
I shall think of you all while I am
fishing
I shall fancy you making ready for the
seater.&lsqb;2&rsqb;  How happy we shall be, Erica, when we once get to the
seater
You see there
To be sure I do.  What else was I looking at
Well, what is it
Has your friend got a
visitor -- come a great way this morning?  They say the mountain-sprite
travels in mist.  If so, it is now going.  See, there it sails
off -- melts away.  It is as like common smoke as anything that ever I
saw.  What say you to taking the boat, and trying again whether there
is no place where your friend might not land, and be now making a fire
among the birds' nests
Nonsense
What became of the skiff, then
True
I will wait till he rounds the point
and then give
him such an answer as may send a guilty man away quicker than he came
Only tell me
only tell me where and how he
died.  I know he is dead -- I knew he would die; from that terrible night
when we were betrothed.  Tell me who did it -- for I am sure you know.
Was it Nipen?  O Hund, speak!  Say only where his body is, and I will
try -- I will try never to speak to you again -- never to
Why do you shake your head, Hund, and speak no word?  Say what you
know, for the sake of those whom, we grievously suspect, you have
deeply injured.  Say what you know, Hund
What I say is, that I do not know
I only know that we live in an enchanted place, here
by this fiord, and that the spirits try to make us answer for their
doings.  The very first night after I went forth, this very boat was
spirited away from me, so that I could not come home.  Nipen had a
spite against me there -- to make you all suspect me.  I declare to you
that the boat was gone, in a twinkling, by magic, and I heard the cry
of the spirit that took it
What was the cry like
Where were you, that you were not spirited away with the boat
I was tumbled out upon the shore, I don't know how
found myself sprawling on a rock, while the creature's cries brought
my heart into my mouth as I lay
Alone?  Were you alone
I had landed the pastor some hours before, madame; and I took nobody
else with me, as Stiorna can tell, for she saw me go
Stiorna is at the mountain
But, Hund
how did Nipen take hold of you when it laid
you sprawling on the rock?  Neck and heels?  Or did it bid you go and
hearken whether the pirates were coming, and whip away the boat before
you came back?  Are you quite sure that you sprawled on the rock at all
before you ran away from the horrible cry you speak of?  Our rocks are
very slippery when Nipen is at one's heels
Attend to me, Hund
Hear my words; and for your own sake answer them.  We
suspect you of being in communication with the pirates yonder; we
suspect that you went to meet them when you refused to go hunting the
bears.  We know that you have long felt ill-will towards Rolf -- envy of
him -- jealousy of him -- and
Do not question him
further.  There is no truth in his answers.  He spoke falsehood even
now
We suspect you of having done something to keep your rival out of the
way, in order that you might obtain the house and situation -- and
perhaps something else that you wish
Have you killed him
No
Do you know that anybody else has killed him
No
Do you know whether he is alive or dead
No
Do you know where
he is
Tell us what you do know about him
Ay, there you come
You load me with foul
accusations, and when you find yourselves all in the wrong, you alter
your tone, and put yourselves under obligation to me for what I will
tell.  I will treat you better than you treat me, and I will tell you
plainly why.  I repent of my feelings towards my fellow-servant, now
that evil has befallen him
What?  Oh, what
He was seen fishing on the fiord in that poor little worn-out skiff.
I myself saw him.  And when I looked next for the skiff, it was gone
And where were you
Never mind where I was.  I was about my own business.  And I tell you,
I no more laid a finger on him than any one of you
Where was it
Close by Vogel islet
I believe some of the things you have told.  I believe that you did
not lay hands on Rolf
Bless you!  Bless you for that
Tell me then
how you believe he really perished
I believe
that the strong hand pulled him
down -- down to the bottom
I knew it
Erica -- one word
I must stay here -- I am very
miserable, and I must stay here and work, and work till I get some
comfort.  But you must tell me how you think of me -- you must say that
you do not hate me
I do hate you
I mistrust you, Hund, more
deeply than I can tell
Will no penitence change your feelings, Erica?  I tell you I am as
miserable as you
That is false, like everything else that you say
I
wish you would go -- go and seek Rolf under the waters
Go and bring back Rolf from the deeps, and then I will cease to hate
you
Did Rolf really tell you that he should be safe anywhere near Vogel
islet
Yes
safe from the pirates.  That was his answer when
I begged him not to go so far down the fiord; but Rolf always had an
answer when one asked him not to go into danger
Erica, you went one trip with me, and I know you are brave.  Will you
go another?  Will you go to the islet and see what Rolf could have
meant about being safe there
Why you no speak
Because I have nothing to say
Is the bishop coming
Yes, he is coming
Are you afraid of him
No, no -- we no fear bishop
We
He speaks for his tribe as well as
himself
We no fear bishop
You no
fear
Do you leave an enemy there, or is Hund now your friend
Hund is nobody's friend, unless he happens to be yours
Hund is everybody's enemy; and, above all, he is an enemy to himself.
He is a wretched man
The bishop will cure that
He is coward enough
to call in the bishop to cure all.  When comes the bishop
Next week
What day, and what hour
Where is Erlingsen?-- quick -- quick
My father?  You may just see him with your good eyes -- up there
Stiorna is there to-day, besides Jan.  They hope to finish this
evening
and so here I am, all alone; and I am glad you
have come to help me to have a good supper ready for them.  Their
hunger will beat all my berry-gathering
You are alone
You alone, and gathering berries,
instead of having an eye on the cattle
But why are your hands empty
Who is to lend you
clothes?  And what will the cows say to your leaving your lure behind,
when you know they like it so much better than Stiorna's
You want news
How will it please you that the bishop is coming
Very much, if we had any chance of seeing him.  Very much, whether we
see him or not, if he can give any help -- any advice.  My poor Erica, I
do not like to ask; but you have had no good news, I fear
I saw that in your face in a moment.  Do not speak about it till you
tell my father.  He may help you, I cannot; so do not tell me anything
No
We have the whey, but
not sweet cream enough till after this evening's milking.  So you are
just in time
There is your father
Now do go and gather more
berries, Frolich.  There are not half enough
Frolich
is the cream good
Stiorna would say that the demon will smack his lips over it.  Come
and taste
Do not speak so, dear
I was only quoting Stiorna
What are you saying about me
Only talking about the cream and the cheese?  Are you sure of
that?  Bless me! what a smell of the yellow flowers!  It will be a
prime cheese
How can you leave the cattle, Stiorna
If they are all
gone when you get back
Well, come then, and see the sight.  I get scolded either way always.
You would have scolded me finely to-night if I had not called you to
see the sight
What sight
Why, there is such a procession of boats on the fiord that you would
suppose there were three weddings happening at once
What can we do
Oddo, my boy
surely you are in early.  Can it be
dinner-time yet
No, not this hour
I have left Hund laying the troughs to water the
meadow;&lsqb;4&rsqb; and if he misses me I don't care.  I could not stay; I could
not help coming; and if he kills me for telling you, he may, for tell
you I must
carry
the matter
O grandfather, what a mind that fellow has!  He will go crazy with
horror soon.  I am not sure that he is not crazy now
He has murdered Rolf, has he
I can't be sure.  He is like one bewitched, that cannot hold his
tongue.  While I was bringing the troughs, one by one, for him to lay,
where the meadow was driest, he still kept muttering and muttering to
himself.  As often as I came within six yards of him, I heard him
mutter, mutter.  Then when I helped him to lay the troughs, he began to
talk to me.  I was not in the mind to make him many answers; but on he
went, just the same as if I had asked him a hundred questions
It was such an opportunity for a curious boy, that I wonder you did
not
Perhaps I might, if he had stopped long enough.  But if he stopped for
a moment to wipe his brow (for he was all trembling with the heat), he
began again before I could well speak.  He asked me whether I had ever
heard that drowned men could show their heads above water, and stare
with their eyes, and throw their arms about, a whole day -- two days
after they were drowned
Ay!  Indeed!  Did he ask that
Yes, and several other things.  He asked whether I had ever heard that
the islets in the fiord were so many prison-houses
And what did you say
I wanted him to explain; so I said they were prison-houses to the
eider-ducks when they were sitting, for they never stir a yard from
their nests.  But he did not heed a word I spoke.  He went on about
drowned men being kept prisoners in the islets, moaning because they
can't get out.  And he says they will knock, knock, as if they could
cleave the thick hard rock
What do you think of all this, my boy
Why, when I said I had not heard a word of any such thing, even from
my grandmother or Erica, he declared he had heard the moans
himself -- moaning and crying; but then he mixed up something about the
barking of wolves that made confusion in the story.  Though he had been
hot just before, there he stood shivering, as if it was winter, as he
stood in the broiling sun.  Then I asked him if he had seen dead men
swim and stare, as he said he had heard them moan and cry
And what did he say then
He started bolt upright, as if I had been picking his pocket.  He was
in a passion for a minute, I know, if ever he was in his life.  Then he
tried to laugh as he said what a lot of new stories -- stories of
spirits, such stories as people love -- he should have to carry home to
the north, whenever he went back to his own place
In the north, his own place in the north!  He wanted to mislead you
there, boy.  Hund was born some way to the south
No, was he really?  How is one to believe a word he says, except when
he speaks as if he was in his sleep, straight out from his conscience,
I suppose?  He began to talk about the bishop next, wanting to know
when I thought he would come, and whether he was apt to hold private
talk with every sort of person at the houses he stayed at
How did you answer him?  You know nothing about the bishop's visits
So I told him; but, to try him, I said I knew one thing, that a
quantity of fresh fish would be wanted when the bishop comes with his
train, and I asked him whether he would go fishing with me as soon as
we could hear that the bishop was drawing near
He would not agree to that, I fancy
He asked how far out I thought of going.  Of course I said to Vogel
islet -- at least as far as Vogel islet.  Do you know, grandfather, I
thought he would have knocked me down at the word.  He muttered
something, I could not hear what, to get off.  By that time we were
laying the last trough.  I asked him to go for some more; and the
minute he was out of sight I scampered here.  Now, what sort of a mind
do you think this fellow has
Not an easy one, it is plain.  It is too clear also that he thinks
Rolf is drowned
But do you think so, grandfather
Do you think so, grandson
Not a bit of it.  Depend upon it, Rolf is all alive, if he is swimming
and staring, and throwing his arms about in the water.  I think I see
him now.  And I will see him, if he is to be seen alive or dead
And pray how
I ought to have said, if you will help me.  You say sometimes,
grandfather, that you can pull a good stroke with the oar still, and I
can steer as well as our master himself; and the fiord never was
stiller than it is to-day.  Think what it would be to bring home Rolf,
or some good news of him!  We would have a race up to the seater
afterwards to see who could be the first to tell Erica
Gently, gently, boy!  What is Rolf about not to come home, if he is
alive
That we shall learn from him.  Did you hear that he told Erica he
should go as far as Vogel islet, dropping something about being safe
there from pirates and everything
How far off is it, Oddo
Two miles, grandfather.  Can you and I manage it by ourselves, think
you
Ay, surely; if we can land these friends of ours.  They will wait
ashore till we call for them again
I will leave you my supper, if you will wait for us here, on this
headland
Promise me, Oddo
not to take advantage of my not seeing.
As sure as you observe anything strange, tell me exactly what you see
I will, grandfather.  There is nothing yet but what is so beautiful
that I could not for the life of me find out anything to be afraid of
On the north side, but there is no use in looking for that, my boy.
That birch ladder must have rotted away with frost and wet long and
long ago
It is likely
but, thinking that some man must have put
it there, I should like to see whether it really is impossible for one
with a strong hand and light foot to mount this wall.  I brought our
longest boat-hook on purpose to try.  Where a ladder hung before, a
foot must have climbed; and if I mount, Rolf may have mounted before
me
I will run into no folly, trust me
I do not forget that
you depend on me for getting home, and that the truth about Nipen and
such things depends for an age to come on our being seen at home again
safe.  But I have a pretty clear notion that Rolf is somewhere on the
top there
Suppose you call him, then
If Rolf is here
he has been living on most amiable
terms with his neighbours
Are you Rolf, really
Yes, but who are you -- Oddo or the demon -- up there where nobody can
climb?  Who are you
I will show you.  We will find each other out
Are you really alive, Rolf
To be sure I am, Oddo
but what demon carried you to
the top of that rock, that no man ever climbed
Not that way
I have not the strength I had, and I can't
swim round the place now.  I was just resting myself when I heard you
call, and came out to see.  Follow me home
Give me your hand, Rolf
I don't wonder you doubt
I can't look much like
myself -- unshaven, and shrunk, and haggard as my face must be
I heard a sob.  Are you crying, Oddo
Yes, grandfather
What is your grief, my boy
No grief, anything but grief now.  I have felt more grief than you
know of, though, or anybody.  I did not know it fully myself till now
Right, my boy; and right to say it out too
I don't care now who knows how miserable I have been.  I did not
believe, all the time, that Nipen had anything to do with these
misfortunes
Right, Oddo
But I was not quite certain; and how could I say a word against it
when I was the one to provoke Nipen?  Now Rolf is safe, and Erica will
be happy again, and I shall not feel as if everybody's eyes were upon
me, and know that it is only out of kindness that they do not reproach
me as having done all the mischief.  I shall hold up my head again
now -- as some may think I have done all along; but I did not, in my own
eyes -- no, not in my own eyes, for all these weary days that are gone
Well, they are gone now
Let them go by and be
forgotten
Nay, not forgotten
How is my boy to learn if he
forgets
Don't fear that for me, grandfather
No fear of that.  I shall not forget these
last days;-- no, not as long as I live
I wonder what we all have been thinking about.  We have not settled a
single thing about what is to be said and done; and here we are almost
in sight of home, and Hund's cunning eyes
I have settled all about it
My mind
is quite clear.  The first thing I have
decided upon is that I may rely on the honour of our friends here to
say nothing yet.  You have proved your kindness, friends, in coming on
this expedition, but for which I should have died in my hole, like a
superannuated bear in its den.  This is a story that the whole country
will hear of; and our grandchildren will tell it, on winter nights,
when there is talk of the war that brought the pirates on our coasts.
The best way will be for you to set me ashore some way short of home,
and ask Erlingsen to meet me at the Black Tarn.  There cannot be a
quieter place; and I shall be so far on my way to the seater
If you will just make a looking-glass of the Black Tarn
you will see that you have no business to carry such a face as yours
to the seater.  Erica will die of terror at you for the mountain-demon,
before you can persuade her it is only you
I was thinking
I was just thinking that
your wisest way will be to take a rest in my bed at Holberg's, without
anybody knowing, and shave yourself with my razor, and dress in my
Sunday clothes, and show yourself to your betrothed in such a trim as
that she will be glad to see you
Do so, Rolf
do so
It is very hard
when all I want is to do no harm to
anybody -- neither to my old friends nor my new acquaintances -- that I
cannot be let alone.  I have done too much mischief in my life already.
The demons have made sport of me.  It is their sport that I have as
many lives to answer for as any man of twice my age in Nordland; and
now that I would be harmless for the rest of my days
Don't trouble yourself to talk about your days
they will be too few to be worth speaking of, if you do not
put yourself under our orders again.  You are a deserter -- and as a
deserter you go back with me, unless you choose to go as a comrade
And what might I expect that your orders would be, if I went with you
You know very well that we want you for a guide.  That is all you are
worth.  In a fight, you would only be in the way -- unless indeed you
could contrive to get out of the way
Then you would not expect me to fight against my master and his
people
Nobody was ever so foolish as to expect you to fight, more or less, I
should think.  No, your business would be to pilot us to Erlingsen's,
and answer truly all our questions about their ways and doings
Surprise them in their sleep
Wake them up with the
light of their own burning roofs!  And they would know me by that
light!  They would point me out to the bishop;-- they would find time in
their hurry to mark me for the monster they might well think me
Yes; you would be in the front, of course
But
there is one comfort for you -- if you are so earnest to see the bishop,
as you told me you were, my plan is the best.  When once we lock him
down on board our schooner, you can have him all to yourself.  You can
confess your sins to him the whole day long; for nobody else will want
a word with either of you.  You can show him your enchanted island,
down in the fiord, and see if he can lay the ghost for you
You can try to run away, if you like; I shall shoot you through the
head before you have gone five yards.  And you may refuse to return
with me; and then I shall know how to report of you to my captain.  I
shall tell him that you are lying at the bottom of this lake -- if it has
a bottom -- with a stone tied round your neck, like a drowned wild cat.
I hope you may chance to find your enemy there, to make the place the
pleasanter
Yes
the bird saw it.  Did you see it
See what
The water-sprite, Uldra.  Before you throw me in to the water-sprite,
we will see which is the strongest
Ay
it is his conscience that makes me so much more
terrible to him than that ruffian.  I never hurt a hair of his head;
and yet, through his conscience, my face is worse than the blasting
lightning to his eyes.  Heigh-ho!  Where is Erlingsen?  It is nothing
short of cruel to keep me waiting to-day, of all days; and in this
spot, of all places -- almost within sight of the seater where my poor
Erica sits pining, and seeing nothing of the pastures, but only, with
her minds' eye, the sea-caves where she thinks these limbs are
stretched, cold and helpless, as in a grave.  A pretty story I shall
have to tell her, if she will only believe it, of another sort of
sea-cave
My dear master
have pity on
Erica and me, and hear what I have to tell you, that I may be gone
You shall be gone at once, my good fellow!  I will walk with you, and
you shall tell your story as we go
Is that Oddo yonder
He said you would bring him
Yes; he has grown trustworthy of late.  We have had fewer heads and
hands among us than the times require since Peder grew old and blind,
and you were missing, and Hund had to be watched instead of trusted.
So we have been obliged to make a man of Oddo, though he has the years
of a boy, and the curiosity of a woman.  I brought him now, thinking
that a messenger might be wanted to raise the country against the
pirates; and I believe Oddo, in his present mood, will be as sure as we
know he can be swift
It is well we have a messenger.  Where is the bishop
Just going to his boat, at this moment, I doubt not
The
bishop is to sup with us this evening
And how long to stay
Over to-morrow night, at the least.  If many of the neighbours should
bring their business to him, it may be longer.  My little Frolich will
be vexed that he should come while she is absent.  Indeed I should not
much wonder if she sets out homeward when she hears the news you will
carry, so that we shall see her at breakfast
It is more likely
that we shall see the bishop up
the mountain at breakfast.  Ah! you stare; but you will find I am not
out of my wits when you hear what has come to my knowledge since we
parted, and especially within this hour
housefather's great chair, by the
fireside
Help me up with it upon my head, Stiorna
I know why you will not let me carry the cheese
You are thinking of Oddo with the cake and ale.  Nobody but
you must deposit offerings henceforward.  You are afraid I should eat
up that cheese, almost as heavy as myself.  You think there would not
be a paring left for the demon by the time I got to the ridge
Not so
I think that he to whom this cheese is
destined had rather be served by one who does not laugh at him.  And it
is a safer plan for you, Frolich
You are thinking of the Bishop of Tronyem's cattle
I am, dear.  This is Midsummer Eve, you know, when, as we think, all
the spirits love to be abroad
You will die before your time, Erica
These
spirits give you no rest of body or mind.  What a day's work we have
done!  And now you are going to watch till twelve, one, two o'clock!  I
could not keep awake
if there was one demon at
the head of the bed, and another at the foot, and the underground
people running like mice all over the floor
Then go and sleep, dear.  I will fetch your comb, if you will just
keep an eye on the cattle for the moment I am gone
You may as well go to bed comfortably; for you will certainly drop
asleep here, if you don't there
Not with my pretty Spiel in sight.  I would not lose my white heifer
for seven nights' sleep.  You will thank me when you find your cow, and
all the rest, safe in the morning.  Good-night, dear
Erica
My Erica
Erica
Why do you take that form
I had rather have seen
you as a bear.  Did you not find the axe?  I laid it for you.
Pray -- pray, come no nearer
I must, my love, to show you that it is your own Rolf.  Erica, do not
let your superstition come for ever between us
Do forgive me
but it is Mid-summer Eve, and I felt so
sure
As sure of my being the demon as I am sure there is no cruel spirit
here, though it is Midsummer Eve.  Look, love! see how the day smiles
upon us
I saw two just now
two suns.  Where are we, really?
And how is all this?  And where do you come from
I will show you
Did you ever see such, Erica?  I have been where they lie in heaps.
Did you ever see such beauties
I never did, Rolf; you have been at the bottom of the sea
Not to the bottom, love
Our
fiord is deep, perhaps as deep as they say.  I dived as deep as a man
may to come up with the breath in his body, but I could never find the
bottom.  Did I not tell you that I should go down as far as Vogel
island, and that I should there be safe
Yes!  You did -- you did
Well!  I went to Vogel island, and here I am safe
It is you!  We are together again
Thank God!  Thank God
Erica!  No, can it be
You
look too happy to be Erica
Erica never was so happy before, dear, that is the reason.  You were
right, Frolich -- bless your kind heart for it!  Rolf was not dead.  He
is here
Whenever you like to stop
I have some good
news for you too
I am to go and see the bishop
Not so, Frolich
There now! you promise me good news, and then you won't let me go and
see the bishop when you know that is the only thing in the world I want
or wish for
Would it not be a great compliment to you, and save you a great deal
of trouble, if the bishop were to come here to see you
Ah! that would be a pretty sight!  The Bishop of Tronyem over the
ankles in the sodden, trodden pasture -- sticking in the mud of
Sulitelma!  The Bishop of Tronyem sleeping upon hay in the loft, and
eating his dinner off a wooden platter!  That would be the most
wonderful sight that Nordland ever saw
Prepare, then, to see the Bishop of Tronyem drink his morning coffee
out of a wooden bowl.  Meantime, I must go and grind his coffee.
Seriously, Frolich, you must make haste to dress and help.  The pirates
want to carry off the bishop for ransom.  Erlingsen is raising the
country.  Hund is coming here as a prisoner, and the bishop, and my
mistress, and Orga, to be safe; and if you do not help me I shall have
nothing ready, for Stiorna does not like the news
What now
Have you found a way of telling fortunes
with the hard cheese, as some pretend to do with the soft curds
Look here
What stamp is this?  The cheese has been
scraped -- almost pared, you see, but they have left one little corner.
And whose stamp is there
Ours
This is the cheese you laid out on the
ridge last night
I believe it.  I see it
Now, dear Erica, do not let us have the old story of your being
frightened about what the demon will say and do.  Nobody but you will
be surprised that the Lapps help themselves with good things that lie
strewing the ground
Welcome to the mountain
Welcome to Sulitelma
What is it
what are you a prisoner for, Hund
Ask them that know
I thought at first that it was on
Rolf's account; and now that they see with their own eyes that Rolf is
safe they best know what they have to bring against me
It is no secret
Hund was seen with the
pirates, acting with and assisting them, when they committed various
acts of thievery on the shores of the fiord.  If the pirates are taken,
Hund will be tried with them for robberies at There's, Kyril's, Tank's,
and other places along the shore, about which information has been
given by a witness
There's, Kyril's, and Tank's
then there
must be magic in the case.  I could have sworn that not an eye on earth
witnessed the doings there.  If Rolf turns out to be the witness, I
shall be certain that he has the powers of the region to help him
I wish
I do wish I knew what to think
about Nipen
Ay! here it comes
You want to know what I think of all this
I think that you could hardly help believing as you have
believed, amidst these strange circumstances, and with your mind full
of the common accounts of Nipen.  Yet I do not believe there is any
such spirit as Nipen, or any demon in the forest, or on the mountain.

"This is one of the many tales belonging to the old religion of this
country.  And how did this old religion arise?  Why, the people saw
grand spectacles every day, and heard wonders whichever way they
turned; and they supposed that the whole universe was alive.  The sun
as it travelled they thought was alive, and kind and good to men.  The
tempest they thought was alive, and angry with men.  The fire and frost
they thought were alive, pleased to make sport with them
As people who ought to know better
now think
the wind is alive, and call it Nipen; or the mist of the lake and
river, which they call the sprite Uldra
It is true
that we now have better knowledge, and
see that the earth, and all that is in it, is made and moved by one
Good Spirit, who, instead of sporting with men, or being angry with
them, rules all things for their good.  But I am not surprised that
some of the old stories remain, and are believed in still, and by good
and dutiful Christians too.  The mother sings the old songs over the
cradle, and the child hears tell of sprites and demons before it hears
of the good God, who 'sends forth the snow and rain, the hail and
vapour, and the stormy winds fulfilling His word.'  And when the child
is grown to be a man or woman, the northern lights shooting over the
sky, and the sighing of the winds in the pine forest, bring back those
old songs and old thoughts about demons and sprites, and the stoutest
man trembles.  I do not wonder, nor do I blame any man or woman for
this, though I wish they were as happy as the weakest infant or the
most worn-out old man, who has learned from the gentle Jesus to fear
nothing at any time, because His Father was with Him
In our towns
much of this blessed change is already
wrought.  No one in my city of Tronyem now fears the angry and cunning
fire-giant Loke; but every citizen closes his eyes in peace when he
hears the midnight cry of the watch, 'Except the Lord keepeth the city,
the watchman waketh but in vain.'&lsqb;6&rsqb;  In the wilds of the country every
man's faith will hereafter be his watchman, crying out upon all that
happens, 'It is the Lord's hand: let Him do what seemeth to Him good!'
This might have been said, Erica, as it appears to me, at every turn of
your story, where you and your friends were not in fault
Oh
if I dared but think there were no bad spirits; if I dared only hope
that everything that happens is done by God's own hand, I could bear
everything!  I would never be afraid again
It is what I believe
We know that the very hairs of your head are all numbered.  I see that
you are weary of your fears; that you have long been heavy laden with
anxiety.  It is you, then, that He invites to trust Him, when He says
by the lips of Jesus, 'Come ye that are weary and heavy-laden and I
will give you rest
Rest; rest is what I have wanted
but Peder and Ulla did not believe as you do, and could not
explain things; and
You should have asked me
I could have explained
everything
Perhaps so, sir; but -- but, M. Kollsen, you always seemed angry, and
you said you despised us for believing anything that you did not; and
it is the most difficult thing in the world to ask questions which one
knows will be despised
And then
there were others who laughed -- even Rolf
himself laughed; and what one fears becomes only the more terrible when
it is laughed at
Very true
When Jesus sat on the well in Samaria,
and taught how the true worship was come, He neither frowned on the
woman who inquired, nor despised her, nor made light of her
superstition about a sacred mountain
Now come and look yourselves.  They are too busy now to be observing
us
Excellent
How admirably they are conducting
the whole affair!  The retreat of these fellows is completely cut
off -- their vessel taken, and driven ashore, while they are busy
elsewhere
That is Oddo's doings
Oddo's doings!  How do you know?  Are you serious?  Can you see?  Or
did you hear
I was by when Oddo told his plan to my father, and begged to be
allowed to take the schooner.  My father laughed so that I thought Oddo
would be for going over to the enemy
No fear of that
Oddo has a brave, faithful heart
And
a conscience and temper which will keep him
meek and patient till he has atoned for mischief that he thinks he has
done
I must see more of this boy
Did your father
grant his request
At last he did.  Oddo said that a young boy could do little good in
the fight at the farm; but that he might lead a party to attack the
schooner, in the absence of almost all her crew.  He said it was no
more than a boy might do, with half-a-dozen lads to help him; for he
had reason to feel sure that only just hands enough to manage her would
be left on board, and those the weakest of the pirate party.  My father
said there were men to spare, and he put twelve, well armed, under
Oddo's orders
Who would submit to be under Oddo's command
Twice twelve, if he had wanted so many
Between the
goodness of the joke and their zeal, there were volunteers in
plenty -- my father told me, as he was putting me on my horse
Go, and abide under the shadow of the Almighty.  So shall you
not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by
day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the
destruction that wasteth at noon-day.  When you shall have made the
Lord your habitation, you shall not fear that evil may befall you, or
that any plague shall come nigh your dwelling.  Go, and peace be on
your house
</text>
