<text>
Aren't we nearly there
Oh, _is_ this it
Here we are
How white the house is
And look at the roses
And the plums
It is rather decent
Wanty go walky
You mustn't touch
How
true
How like life
How true
I say, let's take our spades and dig in the gravel-pits. We can pretend
it's seaside
Father says it was once
he says there are shells there
thousands of years old
Panther
Suppose the bottom of the hole gave way suddenly
and you
tumbled out among the little Australians, all the sand would get in
their eyes
Yes
and they would hate us, and throw stones at us, and
not let us see the kangaroos, or opossums, or bluegums, or Emu Brand
birds, or anything
Fancy it having been wet sea here once, all sloppy and shiny
with fishes and conger-eels and coral and mermaids
And masts of ships and wrecked Spanish treasure. I wish we could find a
gold doubloon, or something
How did the sea get carried away
Not in a pail, silly
Father says the earth got too hot underneath, as you do in bed
sometimes, so it just hunched up its shoulders, and the sea had to slip
off, like the blankets do us, and the shoulder was left sticking out,
and turned into dry land. Let's go and look for shells; I think that
little cave looks likely, and I see something sticking out there like a
bit of wrecked ship's anchor, and it's beastly hot in the Australian
hole
Cyril! Come here! Oh, come quick -- It's alive! It'll get away! Quick
It's a rat, I shouldn't wonder
Father says they infest
old places -- and this must be pretty old if the sea was here thousands of
years ago
Perhaps it is a snake
Let's look
I'm not afraid of
snakes. I like them. If it is a snake I'll tame it, and it will follow
me everywhere, and I'll let it sleep round my neck at night
No, you won't
But
you may if it's a rat
It's alive
Oh, don't be silly
it's not a rat, it's _much_ bigger.
And it's not a snake. It's got feet; I saw them; and fur! No -- not the
spade. You'll hurt it! Dig with your hands
And let _it_ hurt _me_ instead! That's so likely, isn't it
Oh, don't
Squirrel, _don't_. I -- it sounds silly, but it
said something. It really and truly did
What
It said, 'You let me alone
_I'm_ not afraid. Let me dig
Oh, I felt fur
I did
indeed! I did
Let me alone
But we want to see you
I wish you'd come out
Oh, well -- if that's your wish
I believe I must have dropped asleep
What on earth is it
Shall we take it home
Does she always talk nonsense, or is it only the rubbish on her head
that makes her silly
She doesn't mean to be silly
we none of us do,
whatever you may think! Don't be frightened; we don't want to hurt you,
you know
Hurt _me_
_Me_ frightened? Upon my word! Why, you talk as
if I were nobody in particular
Well
perhaps if we knew who you are in
particular we could think of something to say that wouldn't make you
angry. Everything we've said so far seems to have done so. Who are you?
And don't get angry! Because really we don't know
You don't know
Well, I knew the world had
changed -- but -- well, really -- Do you mean to tell me seriously you don't
know a Psammead when you see one
A Sammyadd? That's Greek to me
So it is to everyone
Well, in plain
English, then, a _Sand-fairy_. Don't you know a Sand-fairy when you see
one
Of course I
see you are, _now_. It's quite plain now one comes to look at you
You came to look at me, several sentences ago
Oh -- don't go away again! Do talk some more
I didn't
know you were a Sand-fairy, but I knew directly I saw you that you were
much the wonderfullest thing I'd ever seen
It isn't talking I mind
as long as you're reasonably civil.
But I'm not going to make polite conversation for you. If you talk
nicely to me, perhaps I'll answer you, and perhaps I won't. Now say
something
How long have you lived here
Oh, ages -- several thousand years
Tell us about it. Do
It's all in books
_You_ aren't
Oh, tell us everything you can about
yourself! We don't know anything about you, and you _are_ so nice
Do please tell
How very sunny it is -- quite like old times! Where do you get your
Megatheriums from now
What
Are Pterodactyls plentiful now
What do you have for breakfast
and who
gives it to you
Eggs and bacon, and bread and milk, and porridge and things.
Mother gives it to us. What are Mega-what's-its-names and
Ptero-what-do-you-call-thems? And does anyone have them for breakfast
Why, almost everyone had Pterodactyl for breakfast in my time!
Pterodactyls were something like crocodiles and something like birds -- I
believe they were very good grilled. You see, it was like this: of
course there were heaps of Sand-fairies then, and in the morning early
you went out and hunted for them, and when you'd found one it gave you
your wish. People used to send their little boys down to the seashore in
the morning before breakfast to get the day's wishes, and very often the
eldest boy in the family would be told to wish for a Megatherium, ready
jointed for cooking. It was as big as an elephant, you see, so there was
a good deal of meat on it. And if they wanted fish, the Ichthyosaurus
was asked for,-- he was twenty to forty feet long, so there was plenty of
him. And for poultry there was the Plesiosaurus; there were nice
pickings on that too. Then the other children could wish for other
things. But when people had dinner-parties it was nearly always
Megatheriums; and Ichthyosaurus, because his fins were a great delicacy
and his tail made soup
There must have been heaps and heaps of cold meat left over
Oh no
that would never have done. Why, of course
at sunset what was left over turned into stone. You find the stone bones
of the Megatherium and things all over the place even now, they tell
me
Who tell you
Oh, don't go
tell us more about when it was
Megatheriums for breakfast! Was the world like this then
Not a bit
it was nearly all sand where I lived, and coal
grew on trees, and the periwinkles were as big as tea-trays -- you find
them now; they're turned into stone. We Sand-fairies used to live on the
seashore, and the children used to come with their little flint-spades
and flint-pails and make castles for us to live in. That's thousands of
years ago, but I hear that children still build castles on the sand.
It's difficult to break yourself of a habit
But why did you stop living in the castles
It's a sad story
It was because they
_would_ build moats to the castles, and the nasty wet bubbling sea used
to come in, and of course as soon as a Sand-fairy got wet it caught
cold, and generally died. And so there got to be fewer and fewer, and,
whenever you found a fairy and had a wish, you used to wish for a
Megatherium, and eat twice as much as you wanted, because it might be
weeks before you got another wish
And did _you_ get wet
Only once
the end of the twelfth
hair of my top left whisker -- I feel the place still in damp weather. It
was only once, but it was quite enough for me. I went away as soon as
the sun had dried my poor dear whisker. I scurried away to the back of
the beach, and dug myself a house deep in warm dry sand, and there I've
been ever since. And the sea changed its lodgings afterwards. And now
I'm not going to tell you another thing
Just one more, please
Can you give wishes now
Of course
didn't I give you yours a few minutes ago? You
said, 'I wish you'd come out,' and I did
Oh, please, mayn't we have another
Yes, but be quick about it. I'm tired of you
Quick
I wish we were all as beautiful as the day
I'm really afraid I can't manage it
I must
be out of practice
Oh, _do_ try again
Well
the fact is, I was keeping back a little
strength to give the rest of you your wishes with. If you'll be
contented with one wish a day among the lot of you I daresay I can
screw myself up to it. Do you agree to that
Yes, oh yes
I do hope it won't hurt itself
Or crack its skin
That's all right
It'll come easier
to-morrow
Did it hurt much
Only my poor whisker, thank you
but you're a kind and
thoughtful child. Good day
Excuse me
but have you seen two little boys and
a little girl anywhere about
I was just going to ask you that
Why, it's _you_! I know the hole in your pinafore! You _are_ Jane,
aren't you? And you're the Panther; I can see your dirty handkerchief
that you forgot to change after you'd cut your thumb! The wish _has_
come off, after all. I say, am I as handsome as you are
If you're Cyril, I liked you much better as you were before
You look like the picture of the young chorister,
with your golden hair; you'll die young, I shouldn't wonder. And if
that's Robert, he's like an Italian organ-grinder. His hair's all
black
You two girls are like Christmas cards, then -- that's all -- silly
Christmas cards
And Jane's hair is simply
carrots
Well, it's no use finding fault with each other
let's
get the Lamb and lug it home to dinner. The servants will admire us most
awfully, you'll see
I suppose he's too young to have wishes naturally
We
shall have to mention him specially next time
Come, then
Come, then
G'way 'long
Come to own Pussy
Wants my Panty
Here, come on, Veteran
come and have a yidey on Yobby's
back
Yah, narky narky boy
This is most truly awful
We've got to _make friends_ with him! I can't carry him home screaming
like that. Fancy having to make friends with our own baby!-- it's too
silly
Thank goodness, we're home
Here! Do take Baby
Thanks be, _he's_ safe back
Where are the others, and
whoever to goodness gracious are all of you
We're _us_, of course
And who's Us, when you're at home
I tell you it's _us_, only we're beautiful as the day
I'm Cyril, and these are the others, and we're jolly hungry. Let us in,
and don't be a silly idiot
I know we _look_ different, but I'm Anthea, and we're so tired, and
it's long past dinner-time
Then go home to your dinners, whoever you are; and if our children put
you up to this play-acting you can tell them from me they'll catch it,
so they know what to expect
If you don't take yourselves off, and that precious sharp, I'll go and
fetch the police
It's no good
Oh, do, do come away before we get sent to
prison
We shall be our proper selves after sunset, I suppose
I don't know
it mayn't be like that now -- things
have changed a good deal since Megatherium times
Oh
perhaps we shall turn into stone at
sunset, like the Megatheriums did, so that there mayn't be any of us
left over for the next day
Go along with you, you nasty little Eye-talian monkey
I don't believe we _shall_ turn to stone
because the Sand-fairy said he'd give us another
wish to-morrow, and he couldn't if we were stone, could he
No
I don't want to frighten you girls, but I believe it's
beginning with me already. My foot's quite dead. I'm turning to stone, I
know I am, and so will you in a minute
Never mind
perhaps you'll be the only stone one,
and the rest of us will be all right, and we'll cherish your statue and
hang garlands on it
Giving us such a fright for nothing
If we _do_ come out of this all right, we'll ask the Sammyadd to make
it so that the servants don't notice anything different, no matter what
wishes we have
Wake up
it's all right, we're not
stone. And oh, Cyril, how nice and ugly you do look, with your old
freckles and your brown hair and your little eyes. And so do you all
A good-looking lot, I must say, but that impudent
I know
And where on earth have you been all this time, you naughty little
things, you
In the lane
Why didn't you come home hours ago
We couldn't because of _them_
Who
The children who were as beautiful as the day. They kept us there till
after sunset. We couldn't come back till they'd gone. You don't know how
we hated them! Oh, do, do give us some supper -- we are so hungry
Hungry! I should think so
out all day like
this. Well, I hope it'll be a lesson to you not to go picking up with
strange children -- down here after measles, as likely as not! Now mind,
if you see them again, don't you speak to them -- not one word nor so
much as a look -- but come straight away and tell me. I'll spoil their
beauty for them
If ever we _do_ see them again we'll tell you
And we'll take jolly good care we never _do_ see them again
Oh, drop it
I had such a funny dream
So did I
I dreamed
we found a Sand-fairy in the gravel-pits, and it said it was a Sammyadd,
and we might have a new wish every day, and
But that's what _I_ dreamed
I was just going to tell
you,-- and we had the first wish directly it said so. And I dreamed you
girls were donkeys enough to ask for us all to be beautiful as day, and
we jolly well were, and it was perfectly beastly
But _can_ different people all dream the same thing
because I dreamed all that as well as about the Zoo
and the rain; and Baby didn't know us in my dream, and the servants shut
us out of the house because the radiantness of our beauty was such a
complete disguise, and
Come on, Robert
you'll be late for breakfast again -- unless
you mean to shirk your bath as you did on Tuesday
I say, come here a second
I didn't shirk it; I had
it after brekker in father's dressing-room because ours was emptied
away
Look here
we've all had such an odd dream. We've all
dreamed we found a Sand-fairy
Dream
you little sillies, it's _true_. I tell you it all
happened. That's why I'm so keen on being down early. We'll go up there
directly after brekker, and have another wish. Only we'll make up our
minds, solid, before we go, what it is we do want, and no one must ask
for anything unless the others agree first. No more peerless beauties
for this child, thank you. Not if I know it
Because
servants never dream anything but the things in
the Dream-book, like snakes and oysters and going to a wedding -- that
means a funeral, and snakes are a false female friend, and oysters are
babies
Talking of babies
where's the Lamb
Martha's going to take him to Rochester to see her cousins. Mother said
she might. She's dressing him now
in his very best coat
and hat. Bread-and-butter, please
She seems to like taking him too
Servants _do_ like taking babies to see their relations
I've noticed it before -- especially in their best clothes
I expect they pretend they're their own babies, and that they're not
servants at all, but married to noble dukes of high degree, and they say
the babies are the little dukes and duchesses
I expect that's what Martha'll say to her
cousin. She'll enjoy herself most frightfully
She won't enjoy herself most frightfully carrying our infant duke to
Rochester
not if she's anything like me -- she won't
Fancy walking to Rochester with the Lamb on your back
She's gone by the carrier's cart
Let's see them off, then
we shall have done a polite and kindly act, and we shall be quite sure
we've got rid of them for the day
And now for the Sammyadd
Oh -- suppose it was only a dream, after all
Suppose you were a sensible chap
one's quite as likely
as the other
Suppose you kept a civil tongue in your head
Suppose we girls take a turn
You boys seem to
be getting very warm
Suppose you don't come putting your silly oar in
We won't
Robert dear, don't be so grumpy -- we
won't say a word, you shall be the one to speak to the Fairy and tell
him what we've decided to wish for. You'll say it much better than we
shall
Suppose you drop being a little humbug
Look out -- dig with your hands, now
How's your left whisker this morning
Nothing to boast of
it had rather a restless night. But
thank you for asking
I say
do you feel up to giving wishes to-day, because
we very much want an extra besides the regular one? The extra's a very
little one
Humph
Humph! Do you know, until I heard you being disagreeable to each other
just over my head, and so loud too, I really quite thought I had dreamed
you all. I do have very odd dreams sometimes
Do you
I wish
you'd tell us about
your dreams -- they must be awfully interesting
Is that the day's wish
just like a girl
Yes
No
If I do, I shan't have strength to give you a second wish; not even
good tempers, or common-sense, or manners, or little things like that
We don't want you to put yourself out at all about _these_ things, we
can manage them quite well ourselves
Well
let's
have the little wish first
We don't want the servants to notice the gifts you give us
Are kind enough to give us
Are kind enough to give us, I mean
I've done _that_ for you -- it was quite easy. People don't notice things
much, anyway. What's the next wish
We want
to be rich beyond the dreams of
something or other
Avarice
So it is
But it won't do you much good,
that's one comfort
Come -- I can't go beyond
dreams, you know! How much do you want, and will you have it in gold or
notes
Gold, please -- and millions of it
This gravel-pit full be enough
Oh _yes_
Then go out before I begin, or you'll be buried alive in it
Good-morning, I hope your whisker will be better
to-morrow
It's
not sovereigns
It's gold, anyway
Oh stop, it's too heavy! It hurts
Bosh
Let me out, I tell you
You've no idea what it's like
it's like stones on you -- or
like chains
Look here
if this is to do us any good, it's no good our
staying gasping at it like this. Let's fill our pockets and go and buy
things. Don't you forget, it won't last after sunset. I wish we'd asked
the Sammyadd why things don't turn to stone. Perhaps this will. I'll
tell you what, there's a pony and cart in the village
Do you want to buy that
No, silly,-- we'll _hire_ it. And then we'll go to Rochester and buy
heaps and heaps of things. Look here, let's each take as much as we can
carry. But it's not sovereigns. They've got a man's head on one side and
a thing like the ace of spades on the other. Fill your pockets with it,
I tell you, and come along. You can talk as we go -- if you _must_ talk
You made fun of me for getting father to have nine pockets in my suit
but now you see
Throw out some of the cargo
You'll sink the ship, old
chap. That comes of nine pockets
I don't see how we're to spend it all. There must
be thousands of pounds among the lot of us. I'm going to leave some of
mine behind this stump in the hedge. And directly we get to the village
we'll buy some biscuits; I know it's long past dinner-time
How round and yellow they are
Don't you wish
they were made of gingerbread and we were going to eat them
Well, they're not, and we're not
Come on
It was not wrong for men to go
into beer-saloons, only for children. And Cyril is nearer being a man
than us, because he is the eldest
Oh, how hot it is
Dogs put their tongues out when
they're hot; I wonder if it would cool us at all to put out ours
We might try
I had to pay for it out of my own money, though, that I was going to
buy rabbits with
They wouldn't change the gold. And when I
pulled out a handful the man just laughed and said it was card-counters.
And I got some sponge-cakes too, out of a glass jar on the bar-counter.
And some biscuits with caraways in
It's my turn now to try to buy something with the money
I'm next eldest. Where is the pony-cart kept
pleased but not
proud
He'll be ready in a brace of shakes, he says
and he's
to have one sovereign -- or whatever it is -- to drive us into Rochester and
back, besides waiting there till we've got everything we want. I think I
managed very well
You think yourself jolly clever, I daresay
How
did you do it
I wasn't jolly clever enough to go taking handfuls of money out of my
pocket, to make it seem cheap, anyway
I just found a
young man doing something to a horse's legs with a sponge and a pail.
And I held out one sovereign, and I said --'Do you know what this is?' He
said 'No,' and he'd call his father. And the old man came, and he said
it was a spade guinea; and he said was it my own to do as I liked with,
and I said 'Yes'; and I asked about the pony-cart, and I said he could
have the guinea if he'd drive us into Rochester. And his name is S.
Crispin. And he said, 'Right oh
If you were going to buy a carriage and horses, where would you go
Billy Peasemarsh, at the Saracen's Head
Though all forbid I should recommend any man where it's a question of
horses, no more than I'd take anybody else's recommending if I was
a-buying one. But if your pa's thinking of a rig of any sort, there
ain't a straighter man in Rochester, nor civiller spoken, than Billy,
though I says it
Thank you
The Saracen's Head
furrin money
Paris Model, three guineas
I'm glad
because it says guineas, and not sovereigns,
which we haven't got
It's good money
and it's my own
I daresay
but it's not the kind of money that's
fashionable now, and we don't care about taking it
I believe they think we've stolen it
if we had gloves they wouldn't think we were so
dishonest. It's my hands being so dirty fills their minds with doubts
Here
pay yourself out of
that
Off you go
But the change
Change
I'll change you! Hout you goes; and you may
think yourselves lucky I don't send for the police to find out where you
got it
They tell me you have a lot of horses and carriages to sell
They tell you true, young man
We should like to buy some, please
I daresay you would
Will you show us a few, please? To choose from
Who are you a-kiddin of
Was you sent
here of a message
I tell you
we want to buy some horses and carriages,
and a man told us you were straight and civil spoken, but I shouldn't
wonder if he was mistaken
Upon my sacred
Shall I trot the whole stable
out for your Honor's worship to see? Or shall I send round to the
Bishop's to see if he's a nag or two to dispose of
Please do
if it's not too much trouble. It would be
very kind of you
Willum
Here, Willum, come and look at this 'ere young dook! Wants to buy the
whole stud, lock, stock, and bar'l. And ain't got tuppence in his
pocket to bless hisself with, I'll go bail
Do 'e, for sure
come along
I'm not a young duke, and I never pretended to be. And as for
tuppence -- what do you call this
The best
horse in my stables is at your service
Willum, shut the yard doors
Good-afternoon
we shan't buy any horses now,
whatever you say, and I hope it'll be a lesson to you
Not so fast, you young off-scouring
Willum, fetch the
pleece
Nice lot you are, aren't you, coming tempting honest men with your
guineas
They _are_ our guineas
Oh, of course we don't know all about that, no more we don't -- oh
no -- course not! And dragging little gells into it, too. 'Ere -- I'll let
the gells go if you'll come along to the pleece quiet
We won't be let go
not without the boys. It's
our money just as much as theirs, you wicked old man
Where'd you get it, then
Lost your tongue, eh? Got it fast enough when it's for calling names
with. Come, speak up! Where'd you get it
Out of the gravel-pit
Next article
I tell you we did
There's a fairy there -- all over brown
fur -- with ears like a bat's and eyes like a snail's, and he gives you a
wish a day, and they all come true
Touched in the head, eh
all the more
shame to you boys dragging the poor afflicted child into your sinful
burglaries
She's not mad; it's true
there _is_ a fairy. If I ever
see him again I'll wish for something for you; at least I would if
vengeance wasn't wicked -- so there
Lor' lumme
if there ain't another on 'em
I daresay you're right
Anyway, I'll take
'em up on a charge of unlawful possession, pending inquiries. And the
magistrate will deal with the case. Send the afflicted ones to a home,
as likely as not, and the boys to a reformatory. Now then, come along,
youngsters! No use making a fuss. You bring the gells along, Mr.
Peasemarsh, sir, and I'll shepherd the boys
Well, if ever I did! Oh, Master Robert, whatever
have you been a-doing of now
Panty; want go own Panty
I don't see nothing
You've gone out of your senses, you
two! There ain't any gold there -- only the poor child's hands, all over
dirt, and like the very chimbley. Oh that I should ever see the day
Produce the coins, officer
Turn out your pockets
Turn out your pockets, and stop that noise
Well
I don't know how they done it -- artful little beggars! They walked in
front of me the 'ole way, so as for me to keep my eye on them and not to
attract a crowd and obstruct the traffic
It's very remarkable
If you've done a-browbeating of the innocent children
I'll hire a private carriage and we'll drive home to their papa's
mansion. You'll hear about this again, young man!-- I told you they
hadn't got any gold, when you were pretending to see it in their poor
helpless hands. It's early in the day for a constable on duty not to be
able to trust his own eyes. As to the other one, the less said the
better; he keeps the Saracen's Head, and he knows best what his liquor's
like
Now then
Take them away, for goodness' sake
Now then
trapesing into Rochester by themselves
Mr. Beale, Baker, Rochester
To pay for the buns
nam
go walky
Look here -- about that Sand-fairy ---- Look out!-- he'll have the milk
over
Yes -- about that Fairy ---- No, Lamb dear, give Panther the narky poon
Nothing we've had yet has turned out ---- He nearly
had the mustard that time
I wonder whether we'd better wish ---- Hullo!-- you've done it now, my
boy
It's not respectable
Speak out -- say what you've got to say -- I hate hinting, and 'don't
know,' and sneakish ways like that
Sneak yourself -- Anthea and me
weren't so gold-fishy as you two were, so we got changed quicker, and
we've had time to think it over, and if you ask me
I didn't ask you
I don't care who asks or who doesn't
but Anthea and I
think the Sammyadd is a spiteful brute. If it can give us our wishes I
suppose it can give itself its own, and I feel almost sure it wishes
every time that our wishes shan't do us any good. Let's let the tiresome
beast alone, and just go and have a jolly good game of forts, on our
own, in the chalk-pit
I don't think the Sammyadd does it on purpose
and, after
all, it _was_ silly to wish for boundless wealth. Fifty pounds in
two-shilling pieces would have been much more sensible. And wishing to
be beautiful as the day was simply donkeyish. I don't want to be
disagreeable, but it _was_. We must try to find a really useful wish,
and wish it
I think so too, it's too silly to have a chance like this and not use
it. I never heard of anyone else outside a book who had such a chance;
there must be simply heaps of things we could wish for that wouldn't
turn out Dead Sea fish, like these two things have. Do let's think hard
and wish something nice, so that we can have a real jolly day -- what
there is left of it
by fours
Not want him indeed! Why, everybody 'ud want him, a duck! with all
their hearts they would; and you know you promised your ma to take him
out every blessed day
I know we did
but I wish the Lamb wasn't quite
so young and small. It would be much better fun taking him out
He'll mend of his youngness with time
and as for
smallness, I don't think you'd fancy carrying of him any more, however
big he was. Besides he can walk a bit, bless his precious fat legs, a
ducky! He feels the benefit of the new-laid air, so he does, a pet
Walky wif Panty
Never mind
we'll soon find him
Anybody would want him, indeed! Only they don't; Martha doesn't, not
really, or she'd jolly well keep him with her. He's a little nuisance,
that's what he is. It's too bad. I only wish everybody _did_ want him
with all their hearts; we might get some peace in our lives
Good-morning
I did that quite easily! Everyone wants him
now
It doesn't matter
No matter who wants him -- there's no one
here to -- anyhow
Ingratitude
is a dreadful vice
We're not ungrateful
but we didn't _really_
want that wish. Robert only just said it. Can't you take it back and
give us a new one
No -- I can't
chopping and changing -- it's
not business. You ought to be careful what you _do_ wish. There was a
little boy once, he'd wished for a Plesiosaurus instead of an
Ichthyosaurus, because he was too lazy to remember the easy names of
everyday things, and his father had been very vexed with him, and had
made him go to bed before tea-time, and wouldn't let him go out in the
nice flint boat along with the other children,-- it was the annual
school-treat next day,-- and he came and flung himself down near me on
the morning of the treat, and he kicked his little prehistoric legs
about and said he wished he was dead. And of course then he was
How awful! said the children all together.

"Only till sunset, of course
still it was quite
enough for his father and mother. And he caught it when he woke up -- I
tell you. He didn't turn to stone -- I forget why -- but there must have
been some reason. They didn't know being dead is only being asleep, and
you're bound to wake up somewhere or other, either where you go to sleep
or in some better place. You may be sure he caught it, giving them such
a turn. Why, he wasn't allowed to taste Megatherium for a month after
that. Nothing but oysters and periwinkles, and common things like that
Poof, poof, poofy
Poof, poof, poofy
It's not a pussy
Oh, my left whisker
don't let him touch me. He's wet
We may as well get along home
I'll say I'm sorry; but
anyway if it's no good it's no harm, and we know where the sandy thing
is for to-morrow
very taking
child
What a dear darling duck of a baby! Oh, I _should_ so like to adopt it!
Do you think its mother would mind
She'd mind very much indeed
Oh, but I should bring it up in luxury, you know. I am Lady Chittenden.
You must have seen my photograph in the illustrated papers. They call me
a Beauty, you know, but of course that's all nonsense. Anyway
Let me hold him a minute
Drive on
Drive on, I tell you
The darling -- I won't disturb it
Fine boy -- wish he was mine
He wouldn't favour _you_ much
too 'andsome
Wonder at her now -- I do really! Hates kids. Got none of her own, and
can't abide other folkses'
Tell you what
blowed if I don't hide
the little nipper in the hedge and tell her his brothers took 'im! Then
I'll come back for him afterwards
No, you don't
I've took to that kid so as never
was. If anyone's to have him, it's me -- so there
Stop your talk
You don't want no kids, and,
if you did, one kid's the same as another to you. But I'm a married man
and a judge of breed. I knows a firstrate yearling when I sees him. I'm
a-goin' to 'ave him, an' least said soonest mended
I should 'a' thought
you'd a'most
enough. What with Alfred, an' Albert, an' Louise, an' Victor Stanley,
and Helena Beatrice, and another
My only hat
Everyone _does_ want him now -- and no mistake! That
Sammyadd has done us again! Tricky brute! For any sake, let's get the
kid safe home
the
precious Baby
So that
bears can come and eat you as soon as it gets dark
Let me hold him, little lady
I won't hurt a hair of
his head, the little picture
I'd rather not
Let _me_ have him
I've nineteen
of my own, so I have
No
Swelp me if it ain't
my own long-lost cheild! Have he a
strawberry mark on his left ear? No? Then he's my own babby, stolen from
me in hinnocent hinfancy. 'And 'im over -- and we'll not 'ave the law on
yer this time
We don't want to keep him if he's yours. But you see he's used to us.
You shall have him if you want him
No, no
Of course we want him
Oh, he's hurt
stop it
You trust to me
Look here
he's awfully
tiresome with people he doesn't know very well. Suppose we stay here a
bit till he gets used to you, and then when it's bedtime I give you my
word of honour we'll go away and let you keep him if you want to. And
then when we're gone you can decide which of you is to have him, as you
all want him so much
That's fair enough
Sunset! we'll get away then
Oh, do let him come to us
See, we'll sit down here and
take care of him for you till he gets used to you
What about dinner
Fancy bothering about your beastly dinner when your br -- I mean
when the Baby
You won't mind my just running home to get our dinner
I can bring it out here in a basket
Oh yes
and then fetch the police with a pack of lies
about it being your baby instead of ours! D'jever catch a weasel
asleep
If you're hungry you can pick a bit along of us
Here Levi, that blessed kid'll howl all his
buttons off. Give him to the little lady, and let's see if they can't
get him used to us a bit
Here, Pharaoh, make up the fire; and you girls see to the pot. Give the
kid a chanst
He'll be all right at sunset
But, oh, it is awful!
Suppose they are frightfully angry when they come to their senses! They
might beat us, or leave us tied to trees, or something
No, they won't
Oh, my Lamb, don't cry any more, it's
all right, Panty's got oo, duckie
they aren't unkind people, or they
wouldn't be going to give us any dinner
Dinner
I won't touch their nasty dinner. It would choke
me
like a gentleman
We're getting into the habit of longing for sunset
How I do wish we could wish something really sensible, that would be of
some use, so that we should be quite sorry when sunset came
Now, young uns
it's time you were
laying of your heads on your pillowses -- so it is! The kid's all right
and friendly with us now -- so you just hand him over and get home like
you said
It's no good
hand the little poppet over, miss.
We'll soon quiet him
Tell her about how to put him to bed
anything to
gain time -- and be ready to bolt when the sun really does make up its
silly old mind to set
Yes, I'll hand him over in just one minute
but do let me just tell you he has a warm bath every night and
cold in the morning, and he has a crockery rabbit to go into the warm
bath with him, and little Samuel saying his prayers in white china on a
red cushion for the cold bath; and he hates you to wash his ears, but
you must; and if you let the soap get into his eyes, the Lamb
Lamb kyes
As if I hadn't never bath'd a babby
Come -- give us a hold of him. Come to 'Melia, my precious
G'way, ugsie
Yes, but
about his meals; you really _must_ let me
tell you he has an apple or banana every morning, and bread and milk for
breakfast, and an egg for his tea sometimes, and
I've brought up ten
besides the
others. Come, miss, 'and 'im over -- I can't bear it no longer. I just
must give him a hug
We ain't settled yet whose he's to be, Esther
It won't be you, Esther, with seven of 'em at your tail a'ready
I ain't so sure of that
And ain't I nobody, to have a say neither
An' me? I'm a single girl -- and no one but 'im
to look after -- I ought to have him
Hold your tongue
Shut your mouth
Don't you show me no more of your imperence
Here he is
I shouldn't like to deprive you, miss
Anyone who likes can have my share of him
After all, I've got enough of my own
He's a nice little chap, though
If I don't think I must have had a touch of the sun. _I_
don't want him
Then shall we take him away
Well -- suppose you do
and we'll say no more
about it
Let me give him a kiss, miss,-- I don't know what made us go for to
behave so silly. Us gipsies don't steal babies, whatever they may tell
you when you're naughty. We've enough of our own, mostly. But I've lost
all mine
Poor, poor
May he be brave, and have the strong head to think with, and the strong
heart to love with, and the strong arms to work with, and the strong
feet to travel with, and always come safe home to his own
Well, I must be saying 'so long'-- and glad to have made your
acquaintance
How silly of her! Even sunset didn't put _her_ right. What rot
she talked
Well
if you ask me, I think it was rather decent of
her
Decent
it was very nice indeed of her. I think she's a
dear
She's just too frightfully nice for anything
I say -- it turned out we wanted the Lamb as much as anyone
Of course
But do you feel different about it now the sun's set
_No_
Then it's lasted over sunset with us
No, it hasn't
The wish didn't do anything to _us_.
We always wanted him with all our hearts when we were our proper selves,
only we were all pigs this morning; especially you, Robert
I certainly _thought_ I didn't want him this morning
Perhaps I _was_ a pig. But everything looked so different when we
thought we were going to lose him
DARLING MOTHER,-- I hope you are quite well, and I
          hope Granny is better. The other day we
It was not me upset the ink, but it took such a
          time clearing up, so no more as it is
          post-time.-- From your loving daughter
Well, make it now
MY DEAR MOTHER DEAR,-- We are all as good as we
          can, like you told us to, and the Lamb has a
          little cold, but Martha says it is nothing, only
          he upset the gold-fish into himself yesterday
          morning. When we were up at the sand-pit the other
          day we went round by the safe way where carts go,
          and we found  a
We found a strange thing, but it is nearly
          post-time, so no more at present from your little
          girl,

                                                   "JANE.

          "P.S.-- If you could have a wish come true what
          would you have
between them
warmer -- some showers
I _must_ wake
up at five
I will always get up at five
It was quite too
awfully pretty for anything
It's too bad
The weather's arctic, and it's the middle
of the night
I'm so sorry
Thank you
that's better. What's the wish this morning
I don't know
that's just it. You see we've been very
unlucky, so far. I wanted to talk to you about it. But -- would you mind
not giving me any wishes till after breakfast? It's so hard to talk to
anyone if they jump out at you with wishes you don't really want
You shouldn't say you wish for things if you don't wish for them. In
the old days people almost always knew whether it was Megatherium or
Ichthyosaurus they really wanted for dinner
I'll try not to do so
but I do wish
Look out
Oh, this isn't a magic wish -- it's just -- I should be so glad if you'd
not swell yourself out and nearly burst to give me anything just now.
Wait till the others are here
Well, well
Would you
would you like to come and sit on my
lap? You'd be warmer, and I could turn the skirt of my frock up around
you. I'd be very careful
Thank you
you really are rather thoughtful
Now then
Well then
everything we have wished has turned out
rather horrid. I wish you would advise us. You are so old, you must be
very wise
I was always generous from a child
I've spent
the whole of my waking hours in giving. But one thing I won't
give -- that's advice
You see
it's such a wonderful thing -- such a
splendid, glorious chance. It's so good and kind and dear of you to give
us our wishes, and it seems such a pity it should all be wasted just
because we are too silly to know what to wish for
Child
I can only advise you to think
before you speak
But I thought you never gave advice
That piece doesn't count
You'll never take it! Besides,
it's not original. It's in all the copy-books
But won't you just say if you think wings would be a silly wish
Wings
I should think you might do worse. Only, take care
you aren't flying high at sunset. There was a little Ninevite boy I
heard of once. He was one of King Sennacherib's sons, and a traveller
brought him a Psammead. He used to keep it in a box of sand on the
palace terrace. It was a dreadful degradation for one of us, of course;
still the boy _was_ the Assyrian King's son. And one day he wished for
wings and got them. But he forgot that they would turn into stone at
sunset, and when they did he fell on to one of the winged lions at the
top of his father's great staircase; and what with _his_ stone wings
and the lion's stone wings -- well it's not a very pretty story! But I
believe the boy enjoyed himself very much till then
Tell me
why don't our wishes turn into stone now? Why
do they just vanish
_Autre temps autres moeurs_
Is that the Ninevite language
What I mean is
that in the old days people
wished for good solid everyday gifts,-- Mammoths and Pterodactyls and
things,-- and those could be turned into stone as easy as not. But people
wish such high-flying fanciful things nowadays. How are you going to
turn being beautiful as the day, or being wanted by everybody, into
stone? You see it can't be done. And it would never do to have two
rules, so they simply vanish. If being beautiful as the day _could_ be
turned into stone it would last an awfully long time, you know -- much
longer than you would. Just look at the Greek statues. It's just as
well as it is. Good-bye. I _am_ so sleepy
I want to propose we take turns to wish. Only, nobody's to have a wish
if the others don't think it's a nice wish. Do you agree
Who's to have first wish
Me, if you don't mind
And I've thought
about it -- and it's _wings_
Not so dusty
Really,
Panther, you're not quite such a fool as you look
I think it would be perfectly lovely. It's like a bright
dream of delirium
I wish we all had beautiful wings to fly with
Not so bad
But really, Robert, you're not quite
such an angel as you look
Oh -- but how can we fly
Look out
you're treading on my wing
Does it hurt
It does you a fair treat
Yes, I daresay
But stealing is
stealing even if you've got wings
Do you really think so
If you've got wings you're
a bird, and no one minds birds breaking the commandments. At least,
they may _mind_, but the birds always do it, and no one scolds them or
sends them to prison
Them
young varmint -- at it again
Don't be frightened
We have had some of your plums; we thought it
wasn't stealing, but now I am not so sure. So here's some money to pay
for them
Well -- I'm blessed
This here is what they call delusions, I
suppose. But this here threepenny
_that's_ real enough. Well, from this day forth I'll be a better
man. It's the kind of thing to sober a chap for life, this is. I'm glad
it was only wings, though. I'd rather see the birds as aren't there, and
couldn't be, even if they pretend to talk, than some things as I could
name
Law,
whatever have a-come to the man
We can't possibly fly all the way home without dinner _or_ tea
And nobody will give us any dinner, or even lunch, let alone tea
Perhaps the clergyman here might
He must know all
about angels
Anybody could see we're not that
Look at Robert's boots
and Squirrel's plaid necktie
Well
if the country you're in won't _sell_
provisions, you _take_ them. In wars I mean. I'm quite certain you do.
And even in other stories no good brother would allow his little sisters
to starve in the midst of plenty
Plenty
In the midst of
Yes
There is a larder window at the side of
the clergyman's house, and I saw things to eat inside -- custard pudding
and cold chicken and tongue -- and pies -- and jam. It's rather a high
window -- but with wings
How clever of you
Not at all
any born general -- Napoleon or the
Duke of Marlborough -- would have seen it just the same as I did
It seems very wrong
Nonsense
What was it Sir Philip Sidney said when the
soldier wouldn't give him a drink?--'My necessity is greater than his
We'll club together our money, though, and leave it to pay for the
things, won't we
Some of it
handsome
DEAR REVEREND CLERGYMAN,-- We are very hungry
          indeed because of having to fly all day, and we
          think it is not stealing when you are starving to
          death. We are afraid to ask you for fear you
          should say 'No,' because of course you know about
          angels, but you would not think we were angels. We
          will only take the necessities of life, and no
          pudding or pie, to show you it is not grediness
          but true starvation that makes us make your larder
          stand and deliver. But we are not highwaymen by
          trade
Cut it short
Our intentions are quite honourable if you only
          knew. And here is half-a-crown to show we are
          sinseer and grateful.

          "Thank you for your kind hospitality.

                                          "FROM US FOUR
Now
of course there's some risk; we'd better fly
straight down the other side of the tower and then flutter low across
the churchyard and in through the shrubbery. There doesn't seem to be
anyone about. But you never know. The window looks out into the
shrubbery. It is embowered in foliage, like a window in a story. I'll go
in and get the things. Robert and Anthea can take them as I hand them
out through the window; and Jane can keep watch,-- her eyes are
sharp,-- and whistle if she sees anyone about. Shut up, Robert! she can
whistle quite well enough for that, anyway. It ought not to be a very
good whistle -- it'll sound more natural and birdlike. Now then -- off we
go
I don't think _that's_ a
necessity of life
Yes, it is
We must put the things down somewhere to cut
them up; and I heard father say the other day people got diseases from
germans in rain-water. Now there must be lots of rain-water here,-- and
when it dries up the germans are left, and they'd get into the things,
and we should all die of scarlet fever
What are germans
Little waggly things you see with microscopes
They give you every illness you can think of. I'm sure
the paper was a necessary, just as much as the bread and meat and water.
Now then! Oh, I'm hungry
We'd better get along down and get rid of this beastly thing. It's dark
enough to leave it on the clergyman's doorstep, I should think. Come
on
Of course
this is the way down
It can't be for more than one night. We can signal with our
handkerchiefs in the morning. They'll be dry then. And someone will come
up and let us out
And find the syphon
and we shall be sent to
prison for stealing
You said it wasn't stealing. You said you were sure it wasn't
I'm not sure _now_
Let's throw the thing away among the trees
then no one
can do anything to us
Oh yes
and hit some
chap on the head, and be murderers as well as -- as the other thing
But we can't stay up here all night
and I want my tea
You _can't_ want your tea
you've only just had your
dinner
But I _do_ want it
especially when you begin talking about
stopping up here all night. Oh, Panther -- I want to go home! I want to go
home
Hush, hush
Don't, dear. It'll be all right, somehow.
Don't, don't
Let her cry
if she howls loud enough,
someone may hear and come and let us out
And see the soda-water thing
Robert, don't be a
brute. Oh, Jane, do try to be a man! It's just the same for all of us
be a man
Look here. We must risk that
syphon. I'll button it up inside my jacket -- perhaps no one will notice
it. You others keep well in front of me. There are lights in the
clergyman's house. They've not gone to bed yet. We must just yell as
loud as ever we can. Now all scream when I say three. Robert, you do the
yell like a railway engine, and I'll do the coo-ee like father's. The
girls can do as they please. One, two, three
One, two, three
One, two, three
Goodness me
my dear, someone's being murdered
in the church! Give me my hat and a thick stick, and tell Andrew to come
after me. I expect it's the lunatic who stole the tongue
He thinks he only fancied he heard something. You don't half yell! Now!
One, two, three
You shan't go
not alone. Jessie
send Andrew at once. There's a dangerous
lunatic in the church, and he must go immediately and catch him
I expect he _will_ catch it too
Here, Andrew
there's someone
screaming like mad in the church, and the missus says you're to go along
and catch it
Not alone, I don't
Yis sir
You heard those screams
I did think I noticed a sort of something
Well, come on, then
My dear, I _must_ go
Hullo, you there! Did you call
Yes
They seem to be in the air
Very remarkable
Where are you
CHURCH! TOWER! TOP
Come down, then
_Can't! Door locked
My goodness
Andrew, fetch the stable lantern.
Perhaps it would be as well to fetch another man from the village
With the rest of the gang about, very likely. No, sir; if this 'ere
ain't a trap -- well, may I never! There's cook's cousin at the back door
now. He's a keeper, sir, and used to dealing with vicious characters.
And he's got his gun, sir
Hullo there
come up and let us
out
We're a-coming
I'm a-going to get a policeman and a
gun
Andrew, Andrew
that's not the truth
It's near enough, sir, for the likes of them
Great cry, little wool
dangerous chaps is
quieter
Hullo, you there
Hullo, you there
How did you get up there
We flew up
We got up -- and then we found the door was locked and we couldn't get
down. Let us out -- do
How many of you are there
Only four
Are you armed
Are we what
I've got my gun handy -- so you'd best not try any tricks
If we open the door, will you promise to come quietly down, and
no nonsense
Yes -- oh YES
Bless me
surely that was a female voice
Shall I open the door, sir
to leave room for the others
Yes
open the door. Remember
we have come to release you. You will keep your promise to
refrain from violence
How this bolt do stick
anyone 'ud think it hadn't
been drawed for half a year
I don't open
till you've gone over to the other side of the
tower. And if one of you comes at me I fire. Now
We're all over on the other side
So help me
if they ain't a pack of kiddies
How did you come here
Tell me at once
Oh, take us down
and we'll tell you
anything you like. You won't believe us, but it doesn't matter. Oh, take
us down
Please do take us down
You bring along the gells, sir
you and Andrew can manage
them
Let go
we aren't running away. We haven't hurt your old
church. Leave go
You just come along
Oh, William, _are_ you safe
Yes
he's quite safe. We haven't hurt them at all. And
please, we're very late, and they'll be anxious at home. Could you send
us home in your carriage
Or perhaps there's a hotel near where we could get a carriage
Martha will be very anxious as it is
But how did you come to be locked up in the church-tower
We went up
and we were tired, and we all went to
sleep, and when we woke up we found the door was locked, so we yelled
I should think you did
Frightening everybody
out of their wits like this! You ought to be ashamed of yourselves
We _are_
But who locked the door
I don't know at all
Do please send
us home
Well, really
I suppose we'd better. Andrew, put the
horse to, and you can take them home
Not alone, I don't
let this be a lesson to you
Arst him what he's got there under his jacket
Well, there you are, then
Yes, we took this out of your larder, and some chicken and tongue and
bread. We were very hungry, and we didn't take the custard or jam. We
only took bread and meat and water,-- and we couldn't help its being soda
kind,-- just the necessaries of life; and we left half-a-crown to pay for
it, and we left a letter. And we're very sorry. And my father will pay a
fine and anything you like, but don't send us to prison. Mother would
be so vexed. You know what you said about not being a disgrace. Well,
don't you go and do it to us -- that's all! We're as sorry as we can be.
There
However did you get up to the larder window
I can't tell you that
Is this the whole truth you've been telling me
No
it's all true, but it's not the whole
truth. We can't tell you that. It's no good asking. Oh, do forgive us
and take us home
They're all right, sir -- I expect it's a pal they're standing by.
Someone put 'em up to it, and they won't peach. Game little kids
Tell me
are you screening someone else? Had
anyone else anything to do with this
Yes
but it wasn't their
fault
Very well, my dears
then let's say no more about it.
Only just tell us why you wrote such an odd letter
I don't know
You see, Anthea wrote it in such a hurry,
and it really didn't seem like stealing then. But afterwards, when we
found we couldn't get down off the church-tower, it seemed just exactly
like it. We are all very sorry
Say no more about it
but another time just
think before you take other people's tongues. Now -- some cake and milk
before you go home
You get along home
I'll get me home on shanks' mare
I declare
it seems almost a shame keeping of
them indoors this lovely day; but they are that audacious, they'll be
walking in with their heads knocked off some of these days, if I don't
put my foot down. You make them a cake for tea to-morrow, dear. And
we'll have Baby along of us soon as we've got a bit forrard with our
work. Then they can have a good romp with him, out of the way. Now,
Eliza, come, get on with them beds. Here's ten o'clock nearly, and no
rabbits caught
and no work done
Ha
I've been looking for you.
Where are the rest of you? Not smashed themselves up with those wings,
I hope
No
but the wings got us into a row, just like all the
wishes always do. So the others are kept indoors, and I was only let out
for half an hour -- to get the wish. So please let me wish as quickly as I
can
Wish away
Well
you'd better hurry up with that wish
of yours. Time flies
I know it does
_I_ can't think what to wish for. I wish
you could give one of the others their wish without their having to
come here to ask for it. Oh, _don't_
There
it was tremendously hard -- but I did
it. Run along home, or they're sure to wish for something silly before
you get there
I do wish to goodness Robert would hurry up
Oh
They _have_! They've wished for a castle,
and it's being besieged! It's just like that Sand-fairy! I wish we'd
never seen the beastly thing
Combined Toning and Fixing Solution
By my halidom
a brave varlet this
varlet
His garb is strange
Some outlandish treachery,
belike
Say, lad, what brings thee hither
Now then, youngster, what are you up to here,
eh
If you please, I want to go home
Go, then
none hindereth, and
nought lets us to follow. Zooks
I
misdoubt me but he beareth tidings to the besieged
Where dwellest thou, young knave
Over there
Yonder
Ha -- sayest so
Come hither, boy. This is
matter for our leader
exactly like a picture
Come hither, lad
Have no fear; thou shalt take no scathe
Unfold thy tale without alarm
Whence comest
thou, and what is thine intent
My what
What seekest thou to accomplish? What is thine errand, that thou
wanderest here alone among these rough men-at-arms? Poor child, thy
mother's heart aches for thee e'en now, I'll warrant me
I don't think so
you see, she doesn't know I'm out
Fear not to speak the truth, my child; thou hast nought to fear from
Wulfric de Talbot
beshrew me's
Grammercy for thy courtesy, fair sir knight. The fact is, it's like
this -- and I hope you're not in a hurry, because the story's rather a
breather. Father and mother are away, and when we went down playing in
the sand-pits we found a Psammead
I cry thee mercy! A Sammyadd
Yes, a sort of -- of fairy, or enchanter -- yes, that's it, an enchanter;
and he said we could have a wish every day, and we wished first to be
beautiful
Thy wish was scarce granted
And then we wished for money -- treasure, you know; but we couldn't spend
it. And yesterday we wished for wings, and we got them, and we had a
ripping time to begin with
Thy speech is strange and uncouth
Repeat
thy words -- what hadst thou
A ripping -- I mean a jolly -- no -- we were contented with our lot -- that's
what I mean; only, after we got into an awful fix
What is a fix? A fray, mayhap
No -- not a fray. A -- a -- a tight place
A dungeon? Alas for thy youthful fettered limbs
It wasn't a dungeon. We just -- just encountered undeserved misfortunes
and to-day we are punished by not being allowed to go
out. That's where I live
The others are in
there, and they're not allowed to go out. It's all the Psammead's -- I
mean the enchanter's fault. I wish we'd never seen him
He is an enchanter of might
Oh yes -- of might and main. Rather
And thou deemest that it is the spells of the enchanter whom thou hast
angered that have lent strength to the besieging party
but know thou that Wulfric de Talbot needs no
enchanter's aid to lead his followers to victory
No, I'm sure you don't
of course
not -- you wouldn't, you know. But, all the same, it's partly his fault,
but we're most to blame. You couldn't have done anything if it hadn't
been for us
How now, bold boy
Thy speech is dark,
and eke scarce courteous. Unravel me this riddle
Oh
of course you don't know it, but you're
not _real_ at all. You're only here because the others must have been
idiots enough to wish for a castle -- and when the sun sets you'll just
vanish away, and it'll be all right
Beware, my noble lord;
the urchin doth but feign madness to escape from our clutches. Shall we
not bind him
I'm no more mad than you are
perhaps not so
much -- Only, I was an idiot to think you'd understand anything. Let me
go -- I haven't done anything to you
Whither
Whither wouldst
thou wend
Home, of course
To carry news of succor? Nay
All right, then
then let me go
somewhere else
Sir Wulfric de Talbot
should think foul scorn to -- to
keep a chap -- I mean one who has done him no hurt -- when he wants to cut
off quietly -- I mean to depart without violence
This to my face! Beshrew thee for a knave
Yet thou sayest sooth
Go where thou wilt
thou art free.
Wulfric de Talbot warreth not with babes, and Jakin here shall bear thee
company
All right
Jakin will enjoy himself, I think.
Come on, Jakin. Sir Wulfric, I salute thee
I've done two to-day already
and one was as stiff a bit
of work as ever I did
Oh, do, do, do, do, _do_
Oh, do, do, _do_
Well, what is it
I wish I was with the others
We never heard you come in
How awfully jolly of you to
wish it to give us our wish
Of course we understood that was what you'd done
But you ought to have told us. Suppose we'd wished something silly
Silly
How much sillier could you
have been, I'd like to know? You nearly settled _me_ -- I can tell
you
We haven't done anything yet
we waited for
you. We're going to shoot at them through these little loopholes with
the bow and arrows uncle gave you, and you shall have first shot
I don't think I would
you don't know what
they're like near to. They've got _real_ bows and arrows -- an awful
length -- and swords and pikes and daggers, and all sorts of sharp things.
They're all quite, quite real. It's not just a -- a picture, or a vision
or anything; they can _hurt us_ -- or kill us even, I shouldn't wonder. I
can feel my ear all sore yet. Look here -- have you explored the castle?
Because I think we'd better let them alone as long as they let us alone.
I heard that Jakin man say they weren't going to attack till just
before sundown. We can be getting ready for the attack. Are there any
soldiers in the castle to defend it
We don't know
You see, directly I'd wished we were in a
besieged castle, everything seemed to go upside down, and when it came
straight we looked out of the window, and saw the camp and things and
you -- and of course we kept on looking at everything. Isn't this room
jolly? It's as real as real
Let him alone -- do, miss, when he _is_
good
But what's he _doing_
Doing? Why, a-setting in his high chair as good as gold, a precious,
watching me doing of the ironing. Get along with you, do -- my iron's cold
again
Run along with you, do
I'm behindhand as it is. You won't
get no dinner if you come a-hindering of me like this. Come, off you
goes, or I'll pin a discloth to some of your tails
You're _sure_ the Lamb's all right
Right as ninepence, if you don't come unsettling of him. I thought
you'd like to be rid of him for to-day; but take him, if you want him,
for gracious' sake
No, no
How awful
I feel as
if I was in a lunatic asylum
What does it mean
It's creepy; I don't like it. I wish
we'd wished for something plain -- a rocking-horse, or a donkey, or
something
It's no use wishing _now_
Do be quiet; I want to think
Look here -- it's all right. I think it's like this. You know, we wished
that the servants shouldn't notice any difference when we got wishes.
And nothing happens to the Lamb unless we specially wish it to. So of
course they don't notice the castle or anything. But then the castle is
on the same place where our house was -- is, I mean -- and the servants have
to go on being in the house, or else they _would_ notice. But you can't
have a castle mixed up with our house -- and so _we_ can't see the house,
because we see the castle; and they can't see the castle, because they
go on seeing the house; and so
Oh, _don't_
you make my head go all swimmy, like being on
a roundabout. It doesn't matter! Only, I hope we shall be able to see
our dinner, that's all -- because if it's invisible it'll be unfeelable as
well, and then we can't eat it! I _know_ it will, because I tried to
feel if I could feel the Lamb's chair and there was nothing under him at
all but air. And we can't eat air, and I feel just as if I hadn't had
any breakfast for years and years
It's no use thinking about it
Let's go on exploring.
Perhaps we might find something to eat
If you'd only thought of wishing to be besieged in a castle thoroughly
garrisoned and provisioned
You can't think of everything, you know
I should think
it must be nearly dinner-time by now
This is worse than anything
I'm not so very hungry
Right, _oh_
Look here! Biscuits
I got them this morning -- cook -- and I'd quite forgotten
Yes, but look here, Squirrel
you're so clever at
explaining about invisibleness and all that. How is it the biscuits are
here, and all the bread and meat and things have disappeared
I don't know
unless it's because _we_ had
them. Nothing about _us_ has changed. Everything's in my pocket all
right
Then if we _had_ the mutton it would be real
Oh, don't
I wish we could find it
But we can't find it. I suppose it isn't ours till we've got it in our
mouths
Or in our pockets
Who puts mutton in their pockets, goose-girl
But I
know -- at any rate, I'll try it
It's no good
You'll only ---- Hullo
Just plain, please
Well, I never -- what next, I wonder
What a good thing we've got a moat
and what a good thing
the drawbridge is up -- I should never have known how to work it
Of course it would be up in a besieged castle
You'd think there ought to have been soldiers in it, wouldn't you
You see you don't know how long it's been besieged
perhaps most of the brave defenders were killed early in the siege and
all the provisions eaten, and now there are only a few intrepid
survivors,-- that's us, and we are going to defend it to the death
How do you begin -- defending to the death, I mean
We ought to be heavily armed -- and then shoot at them when they advance
to the attack
They used to pour boiling lead down on besiegers when they got too
close
Father showed me the holes on purpose for pouring
it down through at Bodiam Castle. And there are holes like it in the
gate-tower here
I think I'm glad it's only a game; it _is_ only a game, isn't it
armed heavily
Never mind, we can hurl them like javelins
or drop them
on people's heads. I say -- there are lots of stones on the other side of
the courtyard. If we took some of those up? Just to drop on their heads
if they were to try swimming the moat
May we have just biscuits for tea? We're
going to play at besieged castles, and we'd like the biscuits to
provision the garrison. Put mine in my pocket, please, my hands are so
dirty. And I'll tell the others to fetch theirs
You see it _is_ real
and they are going to attack
Yes
they're all coming out of their tents and moving
about like ants. There's that Jakin dancing about where the bridge
joins on. I wish he could see me put my tongue out at him! Yah
You really _are_ brave, Robert
Rot
He's been
getting ready to be brave all the afternoon. And I wasn't ready, that's
all. I shall be braver than he is in half a jiffy
Oh dear
what does it matter which of you is the bravest?
I think Cyril was a perfect silly to wish for a castle, and I don't want
to play
It _isn't_
Oh yes, you do
it's a very nice game, really,
because they can't possibly get in, and if they do the women and
children are always spared by civilised armies
But are you quite, quite sure they _are_ civilised
They seem to be such a long time ago
Of course they are
Why, look at the little flags on their lances, how bright they
are -- and how fine the leader is! Look, that's him -- isn't it, Robert?-- on
the gray horse
What ho, within there
Hullo there
In the name of our Lord the King, and of our good lord and trusty
leader Sir Wulfric de Talbot, we summon this castle to surrender -- on
pain of fire and sword and no quarter. Do ye surrender
_No_
of course we don't! Never, _Never, NEVER_
Then your fate be on your own heads
Cheer
Cheer to show them we aren't
afraid, and rattle the daggers to make more noise. One, two, three! Hip,
hip, hooray! Again -- Hip, hip, hooray! One more -- Hip, hip, hooray
The moat is dreadfully thin
But they can't get into the castle even if they do swim over
Wait here
We ought to have defended _this_
Cheer up, Jenny
it won't last much longer
That's that beast Jakin
There's still the portcullis;
I'm almost certain that's worked from lower down
Up -- quick
let's drop things on them
Oh dear
I'm afraid we've hurt somebody
I should hope we _had_
I'd give something for a jolly good
boiling kettle of lead. Surrender, indeed
We've held it
we _won't_ surrender! The sun _must_ set
in a minute. Here -- they're all jawing underneath again. Pity there's no
time to get more stones! Here, pour that water down on them. It's no
good, of course, but they'll hate it
Oh dear
don't you think we'd better surrender
Never
we'll have a parley if you like, but we'll never
surrender. Oh, I'll be a soldier when I grow up -- you just see if I
don't. I won't go into the Civil Service, whatever anyone says
Let's wave a handkerchief and ask for a parley
I don't
believe the sun's going to set to-night at all
Give them the water first -- the brutes
How idiotic
Of course the holes go straight down into the
gate-house -- that's for when the enemy has got past the door and the
portcullis, and almost all is lost. Here, hand me the pot
Surrender
De Talbot for
ever
And that's all right
I told you so! And, I say, we
didn't surrender, did we
Aren't you glad now I wished for a castle
I think I am _now_
But I wouldn't wish for it
again, I think, Squirrel dear
Oh, it was simply splendid
I wasn't
frightened a bit
Oh, I say
Look here
it's just come into my head. This is the very
first thing we've wished for that hasn't got us into a row. And there
hasn't been the least little scrap of a row about this. Nobody's raging
downstairs, we're safe and sound, we've had an awfully jolly day -- at
least, not jolly exactly, but you know what I mean. And we know now how
brave Robert is -- and Cyril too, of course
and
Jane as well. And we haven't got into a row with a single grown-up
You ought to be ashamed of yourselves
I thought
you couldn't last through the day without getting up to some mischief! A
person can't take a breath of air on the front doorstep but you must be
emptying the water jug on their heads! Off you go to bed, the lot of
you, and try to get up better children in the morning. Now then -- don't
let me have to tell you twice. If I find any of you not in bed in ten
minutes I'll let you know it, that's all! A new cap, and everything
I don't know why the water didn't change into nothing, though
Why should it
Water's water all the world over
I expect the castle well was the same as ours in the stable-yard
I thought we couldn't get through a wish-day without a row
it was much too good to be true. Come on, Bobs, my military
hero. If we lick into bed sharp she won't be so furious, and perhaps
she'll bring us up some supper. I'm jolly hungry! Good-night, kids
Good-night. I hope the castle won't come creeping back in the night
Of course it won't
but Martha will -- not in the
night, but in a minute. Here, turn round, I'll get that knot out of your
pinafore strings
Wouldn't it have been degrading for Sir Wulfric de Talbot
if he could have known that half the besieged garrison wore
pinafores
And the other half knickerbockers. Yes -- frightfully. Do stand
still -- you're only tightening the knot
Look here
I've got an idea
Does it hurt much
Don't be a jackanape! I'm not humbugging
Shut up, Bobs
Silence for the Squirrel's oration
Friends, Romans, countrymen -- and women -- we found a Sammyadd. We have
had wishes. We've had wings, and being beautiful as the day -- ugh!-- that
was pretty jolly beastly if you like -- and wealth and castles, and that
rotten gipsy business with the Lamb. But we're no forrarder. We haven't
really got anything worth having for our wishes
We've had things happening
that's always something
It's not enough, unless they're the right things
Now I've been thinking
Not really
In the silent what's-its-names of the night. It's like suddenly being
asked something out of history -- the date of the Conquest or something;
you know it all right all the time, but when you're asked it all goes
out of your head. Ladies and gentlemen, you know jolly well that when
we're all rotting about in the usual way heaps of things keep cropping
up, and then real earnest wishes come into the heads of the beholder
Hear, hear
of the beholder, however, stupid he is
Why, even
Robert might happen to think of a really useful wish if he didn't injure
his poor little brains trying so hard to think.-- Shut up, Bobs, I tell
you!-- You'll have the whole show over
It really was you began it, Bobs. Now honour is satisfied, do let
Squirrel go on. We're wasting the whole morning
Well then
I'll call it pax if Bobs will
Pax then
But I've got a lump as big as a
cricket ball over my eye
Now, Squirrel
Well then -- let's just play bandits, or forts, or soldiers, or any of
the old games. We're dead sure to think of something if we try not to.
You always do
It's as
good as anything else
We ought to be near the Sammyadd
in case we think of
anything suddenly
Stand and deliver
Your money or your life
Chuck it now, d'ye hear
Oh, don't hurt my brother any more
He
didn't mean it -- it's only play. And I'm sure he's very sorry
I'll larn you, you young varmint
a silence full of emotion
He'd better wait till I'm grown up -- the cowardly brute! Beast!-- I
hate him! But I'll pay him out. Just because he's bigger than me
You began
I know I did, silly -- but I was only jollying -- and he kicked me -- look
here
I only wish I was bigger than him, that's all
On the look-out to
make sillies of them as usual
The Sammyadd's done us again
The Sammyadd's done us again
Not us -- _me_
If you'd got any decent feeling you'd try
to make it make you the same size. You've no idea how silly it feels
And I don't want to; I can jolly well see how silly it looks
Oh, _don't_! I don't know what's the matter with you boys to-day. Look
here, Squirrel, let's play fair. It is hateful for poor old Bobs, all
alone up there. Let's ask the Sammyadd for another wish, and, if it
will, I do really think we ought all to be made the same size
Not I
He's a rude
violent boy, and it'll do him good to be the wrong size for a bit. What
did he want to come digging me out with his nasty wet hands for? He
nearly touched me! He's a perfect savage. A boy of the Stone Age would
have had more sense
Go away and leave me in peace, do
I can't
think why you don't wish for something sensible -- something to eat or
drink, or good manners, or good tempers. Go along with you, do
What ever shall we do
First
I'm going to reason with that baker's boy.
I shall catch him at the end of the road
Don't hit a chap smaller than yourself, old man
Do I look like hitting him
Why, I should
_kill_ him. But I'll give him something to remember. Wait till I pull up
my stocking
Now
I'm going to teach you to kick boys
smaller than you
And now get down the best way you can
And really it's just as well
for I don't believe he'd
ever have stopped screaming if he'd once seen you, the awful size you
are
I wish _we_ were going to the Fair
You can't go anywhere that size
Why not
They have giants at fairs, much bigger ones
than me
Not much, they don't
Oh
No
it's -- it's not a
plum-stone. It's an idea. Let's take Robert to the Fair, and get them to
give us money for showing him! Then we really _shall_ get something out
of the old Sammyadd at last
Take me, indeed
Much more likely me take
you
Here you are, little gentleman
Penny a shot
No, thank you
we are here on business, not on pleasure.
Who's the master
The what
The master -- the head -- the boss of the show
Over there
but I don't advise you to wake him sudden.
His temper's contrairy, especially these hot days. Better have a shot
while you're waiting
It's rather important
It'll be very profitable to him. I
think he'll be sorry if we take it away
Oh, if it's money in his pocket
No kid now? What is
it
It's a _giant_
You _are_ kidding
Come along and see
Well, hurry up! But if you _are_ kidding,
you'd best say so. I'm as mild as milk myself, but my Bill he's a fair
terror and
It really _is_ a giant
He's a giant little boy -- in a suit like my brother's there. And we
didn't bring him up to the Fair because people do stare so, and they
seem to go into kind of standing-up fits when they see him. And we
thought perhaps you'd like to show him and get pennies; and if you like
to pay us something, you can -- only, it'll have to be rather a lot,
because we promised him he should have a double share of whatever we
made
Swelp me
balmy
crumpet
Robert
My
Upon my word
What'll you take for him
Anything in reason.
We'd have a special van built -- leastways, I know where there's a
second-hand one would do up handsome -- what a baby elephant had, as died.
What'll you take? He's soft, ain't he? Them giants mostly is -- but I
never see -- no, never! What'll you take? Down on the nail. We'll treat
him like a king, and give him first-rate grub and a doss fit for a
bloomin' dook. He must be dotty or he wouldn't need you kids to cart him
about. What'll you take for him
They won't take anything
I'm no more soft than
you are -- not so much, I shouldn't wonder. I'll come and be a show for
to-day if you'll give me
if you'll give me fifteen shillings
Done
Come on now -- and see my
Bill -- and we'll fix a price for the season. I dessay you might get as
much as two pounds a week reg'lar. Come on -- and make yourself as small
as you can for gracious' sake
Strewth
biggest
draw you ever, so help me
Strike me pink
We'll fix up about what you're to draw when the show's over to-night
Lor' love a duck! you'll be that happy
with us you'll never want to leave us. Can you do a song now -- or a bit
of a breakdown
Not to-day
As once
in May
Get Levi and clear them bloomin' photos out. Clear the tent. Stick out
a curtain or suthink
Lor', what a pity we ain't got
no tights his size! But we'll have 'em before the week's out. Young man,
your fortune's made. It's a good thing you came to me, and not to some
chaps as I could tell you on. I've known blokes as beat their giants,
and starved 'em too; so I'll tell you straight, you're in luck this day
if you never was afore. 'Cos I'm a lamb, I am -- and I don't deceive you
I'm not afraid of anyone beating me
lamb
But I'm awfully hungry -- I wish you'd
get me something to eat
Here, 'Becca
Get him some grub -- the best
you've got, mind
Down in black and white -- first thing to-morrow
As if we weren't honest
After that
the price is riz, and I don't
undertake to say what it won't be riz to. So now's yer time
That's done the trick
What was it like
Oh!-- horrid!-- you wouldn't believe
It's as big as a barn,
and that fierce. It froze the blood in my bones. I wouldn't ha' missed
seeing it for anything
No
I can't
It's no use promising what you can't
do
Ah, poor fellow, bound for a term of years, I suppose! Well, here's my
card; when your time's up come to me
When your time's up come to me
I will -- if I'm the same size then
If you grow a bit, so much the better
Tell them I must and will have a rest. And I want my tea
How am I to get away
I've been thinking about it all the afternoon
Why, walk out when the sun sets and you're your right size. They can't
do anything to us
Why, they'd nearly kill us
when
they saw me get my right size. No, we must think of some other way. We
_must_ be alone when the sun sets
I know
Look here
you can let people come in again in a minute.
He's nearly finished tea. But he _must_ be left alone when the sun sets.
He's very queer at that time of day, and if he's worried I won't answer
for the consequences
Why -- what comes over him
I don't know; it's -- it's sort of a _change_
He
isn't at all like himself -- you'd hardly know him. He's very queer
indeed. Someone'll get hurt if he's not alone about sunset
He'll pull round for the evening, I s'pose
Oh yes -- half an hour after sunset he'll be quite himself again
Best humour him
whilst the giant gets his supper
Well, he can pick a bit
You see he has to eat hearty,
being the size he is
You go _now_
and get along home as fast as
you can. Oh, never mind the pony-cart; we'll get that to-morrow. Robert
and I are dressed the same. We'll manage somehow, like Sydney Carton
did. Only, you girls _must_ get out, or it's all no go. We can run, but
you can't -- whatever you may think. No, Jane, it's no good Robert going
out and knocking people down. The police would follow him till he turned
his proper size, and then arrest him like a shot. Go you must! If you
don't, I'll never speak to you again. It was you got us into this mess
really, hanging round people's legs the way you did this morning. _Go_,
I tell you
We're going home
We're leaving the giant with
you. Be kind to him
Look here
he wants some ears of corn -- there's some in the
next field but one. I'll just run and get it. Oh, and he says can't you
loop up the tent at the back a bit? He says he's stifling for a breath
of air. I'll see no one peeps in at him. I'll cover him up, and he can
take a nap while I go for the corn. He _will_ have it -- there's no
holding him when he gets like this
I'm off for the corn
And now, what can I do for you
I suppose you've come here
so early to ask for something for yourself -- something your brothers and
sisters aren't to know about, eh? Now, do be persuaded for your own
good! Ask for a good fat Megatherium and have done with it
Thank you -- not to-day, I think
What I really
wanted to say was -- you know how you're always wishing for things when
you're playing at anything
I seldom play
Well, you know what I mean
What I want to
say is: won't you let us have our wish just when we think of it, and
just where we happen to be? So that we don't have to come and disturb
you again
It'll only end in your wishing for something you don't really want, as
you did about the castle
It's always the same since people left off eating really
wholesome things. However, have it your own way. Good-bye
Good-bye
I'll tell you what
I'm getting tired of you -- all of you. You have no more
sense than so many oysters. Go along with you
What an awful long time babies _stay_ babies
He does grow
Doesn't 'oo, precious
Me grow
me grow big boy, have guns' an'
mouses -- an'-- an
I suppose he'll be grown up some day
Grow up some day
I daresay he will -- when nobody wants him to. I wish to goodness
he would
_Oh_, take care
Oh, take care
Grow up now
Oh, I wish it wouldn't! Oh, I wish it wouldn't! You boys might wish as
well
Whichever it is, it'll be just as awful
If his inside
senses are grown up too, he won't stand our looking after him; and if
he's still a baby inside of him how on earth are we to get him to do
anything? And it'll be getting on for dinner-time in a minute
And we haven't got any nuts
Oh bother nuts
but dinner's different -- I didn't have
half enough dinner yesterday. Couldn't we tie him to the tree and go
home to our dinner and come back afterwards
A fat lot of dinner we should get if we went back without the Lamb
And it'll be just the same if we go back
with him in the state he is now. Yes, I know it's my doing; don't rub it
in! I know I'm a beast, and not fit to live; you can take that for
settled, and say no more about it. The question is, what are we going to
do
Let's wake him up, and take him into Rochester or Maidstone and get
something to eat at a baker's shop
Take him
Yes -- do! It's all my fault -- I don't deny
that -- but you'll find you've got your work cut out for you if you try to
take that young man anywhere. The Lamb always was spoilt, but now he's
grown up he's a demon -- simply. I can see it. Look at his mouth
Well then
let's wake him up and see what _he'll_ do.
Perhaps _he'll_ take _us_ to Maidstone and stand treat. He ought to have
a lot of money in the pockets of those extra-special pants. We _must_
have dinner, anyway
Bother the flies
Hullo, kiddies
still here? What's the
giddy hour? You'll be late for your grub
I know we shall
Then cut along home
What about your grub, though
Oh, how far is it to the station, do you think? I've a sort of a notion
that I'll run up to town and have some lunch at the club
Oh no, Lamb ducky, you mustn't do that
My dear Anthea
how often am I to
tell you that my name is Hilary or St. Maur or Devereux?-- any of my
baptismal names are free to my little brothers and sisters, but _not_
'Lamb'-- a relic of foolishness and far-off childhood
Dear Hilary
you know
father didn't wish you to go to London. He wouldn't like us to be left
alone without you to take care of us. Oh, deceitful thing that I am
Look here
if you're our elder brother, why not behave as
sich and take us over to Maidstone and give us a jolly good blow-out,
and we'll go on the river afterwards
I'm infinitely obliged to you
but I
should prefer solitude. Go home to your lunch -- I mean your dinner.
Perhaps I may look in about tea-time -- or I may not be home till after
you are in your beds
We promised mother not to lose sight of you if we took you out
Look here, Jane
little girls should be seen and not
heard. You kids must learn not to make yourselves a nuisance. Run along
home now -- and perhaps, if you're good, I'll give you each a penny
to-morrow
Look here
where are you going, old man? You might let Bobs and me come with
you -- even if you don't want the girls
I shall run over to Maidstone on my bike
I can lunch at The Crown -- and
perhaps I'll have a pull on the river; but I can't take you all on the
machine -- now, can I? Run along home, like good children
Your bike's run down
So it is
It's a puncture
Look here
I suppose there's a cottage somewhere near -- where one could get a pail
of water
teas for
cyclists
There's a lady coming
for goodness' sake, get out
of the way. Go home -- hide -- vanish somehow! I can't be seen with a pack
of dirty kids
perfectly fair
with that wretched Lamb in that condition
A puncture
Can I not be of any assistance? If you
could allow me
You're very kind
But oh
I should have thought he'd had enough
bicycle-mending for one day -- and if she only knew that really and truly
he's only a whiny-piny, silly little baby
He's _not_
He's a dear -- if people only let
him alone. It's our own precious Lamb still, whatever silly idiots may
turn him into -- isn't he, Pussy
Oh
If you will allow me, I will ride with you as far as the Cross Roads;
it is getting late, and there are tramps about
Don't let him
he's not fit to go with anyone
Go away, little girl
Go home at once
You'd much better not have anything to do with him
He doesn't know who he is. He's something very
different from what you think he is
What do you mean
You just let him go with you
you'll soon see what I
mean! How would you like to suddenly see a poor little helpless baby
spinning along downhill beside you with its feet up on a bicycle it had
lost control of
Who are these very dirty children
I don't know
Oh, Lamb! how _can_ you
when you know perfectly well
you're our own little baby brother that we're so fond of. We're his big
brothers and sisters
and we've
got to take care of him. And we must get him home before sunset, or I
don't know whatever will become of us. You see, he's sort of under a
spell -- enchanted -- you know what I mean
The little girl's eyes were simply those of a
maniac. I can't think how she came to be at large
Hilary, old chap
you must have had a sunstroke or
something. And the things you've been saying to that lady! Why, if we
were to tell you the things you've said when you are yourself again,
say to-morrow morning, you wouldn't ever understand them -- let alone
believe them! You trust to me, old chap, and come home now, and if
you're not yourself in the morning we'll ask the milkman to ask the
doctor to come
Since you seem all to be as mad as the whole worshipful company of
hatters
I suppose I _had_ better take you home. But
you're not to suppose I shall pass this over. I shall have something to
say to you all to-morrow morning
Yes, you will, my Lamb
but it won't be
at all the sort of thing you think it's going to be
Me love Panty -- wants to
come to own Panty
Oh, let's go home, for goodness' sake
You shall say
whatever you like in the morning -- if you can
Come to his own Martha, then -- a precious poppet
For ever
because, as soon as ever the Lamb's old enough
to be bullied, we must jolly well begin to bully him, for his own
sake -- so that he mayn't grow up like _that_
You shan't bully him
not if I can stop it
We must tame him by kindness
You see
if he grows up in the usual way, there'll be
plenty of time to correct him as he goes along. The awful thing to-day
was his growing up so suddenly. There was no time to improve him at
all
He doesn't want any improving
Me loves Panty -- wants to come to own Panty
I wish
there were Red Indians in England -- not big ones, you know, but little
ones, just about the right size for us to fight
Oh, don't bother me. You've had your wish
I didn't know it
Don't you remember yesterday
You asked me to let you have your wishes wherever you
happened to be, and you wished this morning, and you've got it
Oh, have we
What is it
So you've forgotten
Never
mind; you'll know soon enough. And I wish you joy of it! A nice thing
you've let yourselves in for
We always do somehow
I know
Oh, Pussy, how awful! It was Indians he wished for -- Cyril -- at
breakfast, don't you remember? He said, 'I wish there were Red Indians
in England,'-- and now there are, and they're going about scalping people
all over the country, as likely as not
Perhaps they're only in Northumberland and Durham
Don't you believe it
The Sammyadd said we'd let
ourselves in for a nice thing. That means they'll come _here_. And
suppose they scalped the Lamb
Perhaps the scalping would come right again at sunset
Not it
The things that grow out of the wishes don't go.
Look at the fifteen shillings! Pussy, I'm going to break something, and
you must let me have every penny of money you've got. The Indians will
come _here_, don't you see? That Spiteful Psammead as good as said so.
You see what my plan is? Come on
Don't be silly -- it's a matter of life and death
Come
on, Jane
Look here
I've broken the water jug in mother's room
Just like you -- always up to some mischief
Don't be cross, Martha dear
I've got enough money to
pay for a new one -- if only you'll be a dear and go and buy it for us.
Your cousins keep a china-shop, don't they? And I would like you to get
it to-day, in case mother comes home to-morrow. You know she said she
might perhaps
But you're all going into town yourselves
We can't afford to, if we get the new jug
but we'll pay
for you to go, if you'll take the Lamb. And I say, Martha, look
here -- I'll give you my Liberty box, if you'll go. Look, it's most
awfully pretty -- all inlaid with real silver and ivory and ebony, like
King Solomon's temple
I see
no, I don't want your box, miss. What you want
is to get the precious Lamb off your hands for the afternoon. Don't you
go for to think I don't see through you
I _do_ want the jug got
You _will_ go, won't
you
Well, just for this once, I don't mind; but mind you don't get into
none of your outrageous mischief while I'm gone -- that's all
He's going earlier than he thought
You'd better
hurry and get dressed. Do put on that lovely purple frock, Martha, and
the hat with the pink cornflowers, and the yellow-lace collar. Jane'll
finish laying the cloth, and I'll wash the Lamb and get him ready
_He's_ safe
Don't cry, Panther dear
Why
I'm almost sure it was before I said that, that Jane
said she wished it would be a fine day
It wasn't
Why, if it was Indians
salt, please, and mustard -- I
must have something to make this mush go down,-- if it was Indians,
they'd have been infesting the place long before this -- you know they
would. I believe it's the fine day
Then why did the Sammyadd say we'd let ourselves in for a nice thing
Of course I don't mean to say
that it wasn't a good
thing to get Martha and the Lamb out of the way for the afternoon; but
as for Red Indians -- why, you know jolly well the wishes always come that
very minute. If there was going to be Red Indians, they'd be here now
I expect they are
they're lurking amid the undergrowth,
for anything you know. I do think you're most unkind
Indians almost always _do_ lurk, really, though, don't they
No, they don't
And I'm not unkind, I'm only
truthful. And I say it was utter rot breaking the water-jug; and as for
the missionary-box, I believe it's a treason-crime, and I shouldn't
wonder if you could be hanged for it, if any of us was to split
Shut up, can't you
It's simply idiotic
talking about Indians, when you can see
for yourself that it's Jane who's got her wish. Look what a fine day it
is ---- _OH
There, now
I told you so
Pax
Panther, I'm sorry if I was a brute
All right
but you see now
Well
what are we to do
The only thing I can think of
is -- if we dressed up as like
Indians as we can, and looked out of the windows, or even went out. They
might think we were the powerful leaders of a large neighbouring tribe,
and -- and not do anything to us, you know, for fear of awful vengeance
But Eliza, and the cook
You forget -- they can't notice anything
They wouldn't
notice anything out of the way, even if they were scalped or roasted at
a slow fire
But would they come right at sunset
Of course. You can't be really scalped or burned to death without
noticing it, and you'd be sure to notice it next day, even if it escaped
your attention at the time
I think Anthea's right, but we
shall want a most awful lot of feathers
I'll go down to the hen-house
There's one of the
turkeys in there -- it's not very well. I could cut its feathers without
it minding much. It's very bad -- doesn't seem to care what happens to it.
Get me the cutting-out scissors
Look here
this is jolly serious. I cut off the feathers,
and when I turned to come out there was an Indian squinting at me from
under the old hen-coop. I just brandished the feathers and yelled, and
got away before he could get the coop off top of himself. Panther, get
the coloured blankets off our beds, and look slippy, can't you
But our faces
they're not at all the right colour.
We're all rather pale, and I'm sure I don't know why, but Cyril is the
colour of putty
I'm not
The real Indians outside seem to be brownish
I
think we ought to be really _red_ -- it's sort of superior to have a red
skin, if you are one
It's our only chance
Much better than to wait for
their blood-freezing attack. We must pretend like mad. Like that game of
cards where you pretend you've got aces when you haven't. Fluffing they
call it, I think. Now then. Whoop
I hope to goodness they can talk English
Ye seek a pow-wow
I am Golden Eagle,
of the mighty tribe of Rock-dwellers
Ye seek a pow-wow
And I
am the Black
Panther -- chief of the -- the -- the -- Mazawattee tribe. My brothers -- I don't
mean -- yes, I do -- the tribe -- I mean the Mazawattees -- are in ambush below
the brow of yonder hill
And what mighty warriors be these
This great warrior is Wild Cat -- Pussy
Ferox we call it in this land -- leader of the vast Phiteezi tribe
And thou, valorous Redskin
And now
our tribes, if we just whistle them up,
will far outnumber your puny forces; so resistance is useless. Return,
therefore, to your land, O brother, and smoke pipes of peace in your
wampums with your squaws and your medicine-men, and dress yourselves in
the gayest wigwams, and eat happily of the juicy fresh-caught
moccasins
You've got it all wrong
Thy customs are other than ours, O Black Panther
Bring up
thy tribe, that we may hold pow-wow in state before them, as becomes
great chiefs
We'll bring them up right enough
with their bows and
arrows, and tomahawks and scalping-knives, and everything you can think
of, if you don't look sharp and go
It's no go
I knew it wouldn't be. We must make a
bolt for the Psammead. It might help us. If it doesn't -- well, I suppose
we shall come alive again at sunset. I wonder if scalping hurts as much
as they say
I'll wave the flag again
If they stand back, we'll run
for it
Ye have lied to us, O Black Panther of the Mazawattees -- and thou, too,
Squirrel of the Moning Congos. These also, Pussy Ferox of the Phiteezi,
and Bobs of the Cape Mounted Police,-- these also have lied to us, if not
with their tongues, yet by their silence. Ye have lied under the cover
of the Truce-flag of the Pale-face. Ye have no followers. Your tribes
are far away -- following the hunting trail. What shall be their doom
Build we the fire
Do you mean to scalp us first and then roast us
Of course
It's always done
Their scalps are ours
ill-rooted were their
ill-fated hairs! They came off in the hands of the victors -- without
struggle, without resistance, they yielded their scalps to the
conquering Rock-dwellers! Oh, how little a thing is a scalp so lightly
won
They'll take our real ones in a minute; you see if they don't
Cheated of our just and fiery revenge are we
but
there are other torments than the scalping-knife and the flames. Yet is
the slow fire the correct thing. O strange unnatural country, wherein a
man may find no wood to burn his enemy!-- Ah for the boundless forests of
my native land, where the great trees for thousands of miles grow but to
furnish firewood wherewithal to burn our foes. Ah, would we were but in
our native forest once more
My cousin, she gave me the jug for luck; she said it was an odd one
what the basin of had got smashed
Oh, Martha, you are a dear
Yes
you'd better make the most of me while you've
got me. I shall give your ma notice directly minute she comes back
Oh, Martha, we haven't been so _very_ horrid to you, have we
Oh, it isn't that, miss
I'm a-goin'
to be married. It's Beale the gamekeeper. He's been a-proposin' to me
off and on ever since you come home from the clergyman's where you got
locked up on the church-tower. And to-day I said the word an' made him a
happy man
This
is always the way
I wonder what she _would_ like
She'd like us all to be good
Yes -- but that's so dull for us
and besides, I should
hope we could be that without sand-fairies to help us. No; it must be
something splendid, that we couldn't possibly get without wishing for
Look out
don't forget yesterday.
Remember, we get our wishes now just wherever we happen to be when we
say 'I wish.' Don't let's let ourselves in for anything silly -- to-day of
all days
All right
You needn't talk so much
A blessing we're all alive to eat our breakfast
Why, whatever's happened
Oh, nothing
only it seems nobody's safe from being
murdered in their beds nowadays
Why
_has_ anyone been murdered in their beds
Well -- not exactly
but they might just as well. There's
been burglars over at Peasemarsh Place -- Beale's just told me -- and
they've took every single one of Lady Chittenden's diamonds and jewels
and things, and she's a-goin out of one fainting fit into another, with
hardly time to say 'Oh, my diamonds!' in between. And Lord Chittenden's
away in London
Lady Chittenden
we've seen her. She wears a
red-and-white dress, and she has no children of her own and can't abide
other folkses'
That's her
Well, she's put all her trust in riches, and
you see how she's served. They say the diamonds and things was worth
thousands of pounds. There was a necklace and a river -- whatever that
is -- and no end of bracelets; and a tarrer and ever so many rings. But
there, I mustn't stand talking and all the place to clean down afore
your ma comes home
I don't see why she should ever have had such lots of diamonds
She was not at all a nice lady, I
thought. And mother hasn't any diamonds, and hardly any jewels -- the
topaz necklace, and the sapphire ring daddy gave her when they were
engaged, and the garnet star, and the little pearl brooch with
great-grandpapa's hair in it,-- that's about all
When I'm grown up I'll buy mother no end of diamonds
if
she wants them. I shall make so much money exploring in Africa I shan't
know what to do with it
Wouldn't it be jolly
if mother could find all
these lovely things, necklaces and rivers of diamonds and tarrers
_Ti -- aras_
Ti -- aras, then,-- and rings and everything in her room when she came
home. I wish she would
Well, she _will_
you've wished, my good Jane -- and our
only chance now is to find the Psammead, and if it's in a good temper
it _may_ take back the wish and give us another. If not -- well -- goodness
knows what we're in for!-- the police of course, and ---- Don't cry,
silly! We'll stand by you. Father says we need never to be afraid if we
don't do anything wrong and always speak the truth
Of course
_we_ couldn't find them. It'll be mother
who'll do that. Perhaps she'll think they've been in the house for years
and years, and never know they are the stolen ones at all
Oh yes
then mother will be a receiver of
stolen goods, and you know jolly well what _that's_ worse than
I don't care
we'll tell mother the truth, and
she'll give back the jewels -- and make everything all right
Do you think so
Do you think she'll believe us?
Could anyone believe about a Sammyadd unless they'd seen it? She'll
think we're pretending. Or else she'll think we're raving mad, and then
we shall be sent to the mad-house. How would you like it
how would you like it, to be shut up
in an iron cage with bars and padded walls, and nothing to do but stick
straws in your hair all day, and listen to the howlings and ravings of
the other maniacs? Make up your minds to it, all of you. It's no use
telling mother
But it's true
Of course it is, but it's not true enough for grown-up people to
believe it
Cyril's right. Let's put flowers in all the vases, and try not to think
about the diamonds. After all, everything has come right in the end all
the other times
Don't go up, mummy darling
let me take your things up
for you
Or I will
We want you to come and look at the rose-tree
Oh, don't go up
Nonsense, dears
I'm not such an old woman yet
that I can't take my bonnet off in the proper place. Besides I must wash
these black hands of mine
Oh, how lovely
Wherever did this come from
However did it come here
I don't know
Father must have told Martha to put it here
I'll run
down and ask her
Let me look at it
bonnet
Jane
I am sure you know something about this. Now think
before you speak, and tell me the truth
We found a Fairy
We found a Fairy
No nonsense, please
Don't be silly, Jane
Look here, mother, we've never seen the things before, but Lady
Chittenden at Peasmarsh Place lost all her jewellery by wicked burglars
last night. Could this possibly be it
But how could they have put it here? And why should they
Surely it would have been easier and safer to
make off with it
Suppose
they thought it better to wait for -- for
sunset -- nightfall, I mean, before they went off with it. No one but us
knew that you were coming back to-day
I must send for the police at once
Oh, how
I wish daddy were here
Wouldn't it be better to wait till he _does_ come
No, no; I can't wait a minute with all this on my mind
Martha
has any stranger been into my room since I've been
away? Now, answer me truthfully
No, mum
leastways, what I mean to say
Come
I see someone has. You must tell me
at once. Don't be frightened. I'm sure _you_ haven't done anything
wrong
I was a-goin' to give you warning this very day, mum, to leave at the
end of my month, so I was,-- on account of me being going to make a
respectable young man happy. A gamekeeper he is by trade, mum -- and I
wouldn't deceive you -- of the name of Beale. And it's as true as I stand
here, it was your coming home in such a hurry, and no warning given, out
of the kindness of his heart it was, as he says, 'Martha, my beauty,' he
says,-- which I ain't, and never was, but you know how them men will go
on,--'I can't see you a-toiling and a-moiling and not lend a 'elping
'and; which mine is a strong arm, and it's yours Martha, my dear,' says
he. And so he helped me a-cleanin' of the windows -- but outside, mum, the
whole time, and me in; if I never say another breathing word it's gospel
truth
Were you with him the whole time
Him outside and me in, I was
except for fetching up a
fresh pail and the leather that that slut of a Eliza'd hidden away
behind the mangle
That will do
I am not pleased with you,
Martha, but you have spoken the truth, and that counts for something
Oh, mummy darling
it isn't Beale's fault, it isn't
really! He's a great dear; he is, truly and honourably, and as honest as
the day. Don't let the police take him, mummy! Oh, don't, don't, don't
Is there a cart hereabouts
A trap of
any sort? I must drive in to Rochester and tell the police at once
There's a cart at the farm, but, oh, don't
go!-- don't go!-- oh, don't go!-- wait till daddy comes home
Look here, Cyril
I leave you in charge. Stay in the dressing-room.
You can pretend to be swimming boats in the bath, or something. Say I
gave you leave. But stay there, with the door on the landing open; I've
locked the other. And don't let anyone go into my room. Remember, no one
knows the jewels are there except me, and all of you, and the wicked
thieves who put them there. Robert, you stay in the garden and watch the
windows. If anyone tries to get in you must run and tell the two farm
men that I'll send up to wait in the kitchen. I'll tell them there are
dangerous characters about -- that's true enough. Now remember, I trust
you both. But I don't think they'll try it till after dark, so you're
quite safe. Good-bye, darlings
She's a born general
but _I_ don't know what's going to
happen to us. Even if the girls were to hunt for that old Sammyadd and
find it, and get it to take the jewels away again, mother would only
think we hadn't looked out properly and let the burglars sneak in and
get them -- or else the police will think _we've_ got them -- or else that
she's been fooling them. Oh, it's a pretty decent average ghastly mess
this time, and no mistake
It's simply quite too dreadfully awful
How do you know
all the diamonds are there, too? If they aren't, the police will think
mother and father have got them, and that they've only given up some of
them for a kind of desperate blind. And they'll be put in prison, and we
shall be branded outcasts, the children of felons. And it won't be at
all nice for father and mother either
But what can we _do_
Nothing -- at least we might look for the Psammead again. It's a very,
_very_ hot day. He may have come out to warm that whisker of his
He won't give us any more beastly wishes to-day
He
gets crosser and crosser every time we see him. I believe he hates
having to give wishes
What is it
Oh, have you thought of something
Our one chance
the last lone-lorn forlorn
hope. Come on
Here -- none of that
Leave go of me, will you
Dear kind darling Sammyadd
Oh yes -- it's all very well
you want another wish, I expect.
But I can't keep on slaving from morning till night giving people their
wishes. I must have _some_ time to myself
Do you hate giving wishes
Of course I do
Leave go of me or I'll bite!-- I really
will -- I mean it. Oh, well, if you choose to risk it
Look here
don't bite me -- listen to reason. If you'll only
do what we want to-day, we'll never ask you for another wish as long as
we live
I'd do anything
I'd almost burst myself
to give you one wish after another, as long as I held out, if you'd only
never, never ask me to do it after to-day. If you knew how I hate to
blow myself out with other people's wishes, and how frightened I am
always that I shall strain a muscle or something. And then to wake up
every morning and know you've _got_ to do it. You don't know what it
is -- you don't know what it is, you don't
It's all over now
We promise faithfully never
to ask for another wish after to-day
Well, go ahead
let's get it over
How many can you do
I don't know -- as long as I can hold out
Well, first, I wish Lady Chittenden may find she's never lost her
jewels
Done
I wish
mother mayn't get to the police
Done
I wish
mother could forget all about the
diamonds
Done
Would you like to rest a little
Yes, please
and, before we go any further, will
you wish something for me
Can't you do wishes for yourself
Of course not
we were always expected to give each other
our wishes -- not that we had any to speak of in the good old Megatherium
days. Just wish, will you, that you may never be able, any of you, to
tell anyone a word about _Me_
Why
Why, don't you see, if you told grown-ups I should have no peace of my
life. They'd get hold of me, and they wouldn't wish silly things like
you do, but real earnest things; and the scientific people would hit on
some way of making things last after sunset, as likely as not; and
they'd ask for a graduated income-tax, and old-age pensions, and manhood
suffrage, and free secondary education, and dull things like that; and
get them, and keep them, and the whole world would be turned
topsy-turvy. Do wish it! Quick
And now
can I do anything more for you
Just one thing; and I think that clears everything up, doesn't it,
Jane? I wish Martha to forget about the diamond ring, and mother to
forget about the keeper cleaning the windows
It's like the 'Brass Bottle
Yes, I'm glad we read that or I should never have thought of it
Now
I'm almost worn out. Is there
anything else
No; only thank you kindly for all you've done for us, and I hope you'll
have a good long sleep, and I hope we shall see you again some day
Is that a wish
Yes, please
I hope we've done right
I'm sure we have
Come on home and tell the boys
And oh, my dearest dear chicks
I am simply dying for a cup
of tea! Do run and see if the water boils
So you see it's all right
She doesn't remember
No more does Martha
I wonder if we ever shall see the Psammead again
I'm sure we shall
if you really wished it
We've promised never to ask it for another wish
I never want to
</text>
